All right, James, thank you for coming on the show, man.
It's great to be here.
You've written a mountain of books.
Yes, we've written a few books, yeah.
How many terrorists have you interrogated in your career?
Probably 110, I'd say.
110, man.
And is that what led to you sort of discovering this newfound love of writing and reading?
Yes and no.
I kind of stumbled into the writing, to be honest with you.
It's a little bit closer.
I kind of stumbled into the writing.
It wasn't what I'd gone to school for and originally got into it.
Originally it was PTSD therapy, to be honest, and my jobs always had me write a lot in interrogations.
You have to write your, what went on in the interrogation, any kind of intel reports.
You've got to write up those and do a lot of research on the person you're talking to
and your geographical area cover.
And so I had a lot of the skills necessary to be a writer.
I just hadn't actually gone that path.
And when I was talking with someone at the VA about how do you make that adjustment from
military to civilian?
One of them had suggested looking at writing therapy and just writing out some of the areas
and things you kind of struggled with.
It's good sometimes to put it on paper.
Even sometimes when you write out that event that happened and just write it down and then
throw it away or burn it, just kind of get it off your chest and get rid of it, it can
be quite helpful.
But it's kind of a point where it's like, okay, I've done that.
This seems to be helping, but what do I do next?
And that's when this person I was seeing said, well, why don't you just write a book?
And they're thinking, hey, I'm just assigning them busy work, you know?
And so I started doing that.
And he said, well, I'll write what I want to read that I don't see being written.
And it just kind of took off from there.
So it's not typical for Air Force folks to be interrogators, is it?
No, it is not.
It is not our main job at all.
How can you explain to me the beginning of your whole journey into joining the Air Force
and eventually going to Iraq and interrogating all these guys?
Sure.
So I originally joined the Wisconsin Army National Guard back in 1996.
I was young, 18 years didn't know what I was doing, what I wanted to do in life.
My uncle had been in the Guard for 20 some odd years, but he was active duty.
He worked there full-time.
And he encouraged me to just go check out the Guard, get my college degree, paid for
through them.
And then if I really want to make the military a full-time career, I just cross over and
do that.
And that made sense to me at the time.
So that's how I started in the military is going that particular path.
I was in a self-propelled, a pallet and artillery unit, spent six years doing that.
And then 9-11 happened.
At the time, I was a student doing my, a fall semester for my senior year in Munich, Germany
when 9-11 happened.
And at that point, I decided that I wanted to go full-time military.
And when I decided to just finish school and then decide if I'm going to do this full-time,
I want to go into the Air Force ranks.
And it took a little while to actually cross over because it's not common to change branches.
So it took me about a year and a half to make that, that switch.
And then I moved in.
And then with the interrogation stuff, this is not a normal job for the Air Force.
It's a special duty assignment for one.
So it's typically if they volunteer to go into a special duty assignment and bill it
for that.
But what happened is when Abu Ghraib, you know, broke all that unfolded.
When what unfolded?
The Abu Ghraib scandals at the prison there.
We had the military guards were abusing the prisoners and the photos and all that stuff
kind of leaked onto the internet and caused a big problem there.
It goes in 2004 and five when that kind of really is that is that when the enhanced
interrogation was totally separate.
But this was you had those images of the prison.
You find the Austin Abu Ghraib.
Yeah. The prison's guards were having these the prisons, the prisoners
in different positions.
They shouldn't have been in and just they were not doing what they should have been
doing. And it would create a big scandal and a problem for the army.
And what happened is they lost most of that mission and it got put on the shoulders of
the Air Force.
And this is not a normal Air Force job.
So the Air Force put out a request for volunteers to join.
I joined in the second wave.
So I went in the second round of it because we had to provide people for two years to
help augment the army and help a system in that.
Yeah. OK.
Yes.
Again, this was soldiers being left to their own devices and not being properly
supervised and doing what they were supposed to be.
And where was this prison at?
So Abu Ghraib is I believe it's in the west of Baghdad area.
West. Not too far from the the airport. OK.
Yeah. I remember seeing these photos.
Yeah. Yeah. For some reason, though, I thought I always thought that they were from
Guantanamo. Yeah, it's all in Iraq.
And unfortunately, this really was kind of a spark that really ignited
a lot of the insurgency, too, because it just fed the narrative of, you know,
the big bad evil Americans coming here to subjugate them, so to speak.
Yes. And it just it really harmed us a lot, those images.
But this was a big mission and the army needed help to to manage that.
And so the Air Force was asked to provide, you know, interrogators for a couple of
years. And I saw the call and I read the description and thought, well,
that sounds pretty neat. Let me go volunteer and go do that.
And next thing you know, you're signed up for this five hundred and fifty six day
deployment, more or less.
And it was kind of a clear long trip.
I think I was I guess my wife may be twenty six to twenty eight days out of that period.
So it was a long haul.
Now, why wouldn't the why wouldn't we want FBI or CIA to be
interrogating people like this?
Different. That's typically what they do, right?
Like FBI are like the number one interrogators.
Different. So the difference between like civilian interrogation versus military, right?
So civilians, they're trying to interrogate people for collecting evidence
that can be used by a prosecutor for a case, right?
Military interrogators, that's not our primary goal.
Our primary goal is to acquire information so we can action it,
whether it's where is a weapon cache, where are they smuggling weapons across the border?
Who is the leader for this organization or group?
And then where are they staying at?
Where are they building ideas, things like that?
We're looking for intelligence and locations to go action something.
OK, it's usually to in our missions are capture kill.
That's what we want.
Is I I prefer the capture part because I need fresh people to talk to
to continue working up the chain.
Some of the shooters prefer the other method.
Either way, you're you're removing the threat from the population.
But again, it's very different mission sets from a law enforcement
because they're again looking for evidence,
confessions, things like that to prosecute.
Whereas on the military side, we don't really care about the prosecution sign.
We care about intelligence to go, you know, capture, kill bad guys.
OK, that makes sense. Yeah. Where were we?
Oh, yeah. So you got deployed.
Yeah. Yeah. We we deployed out of so we went to first
to go to Fort Wachuka for your your training with the army.
So us Air Force guys went embedded with the army for the training period doing that.
Having spent your I went to basically training with the army
and spent six, six years with the guard and
doing different training iterations with with that side of the house.
So I was already used to being with the army and working with the army.
So for me, it was kind of felt more comfortable
because I always felt like an oddball being in the Air Force, having come
from a different service because I didn't start in that service.
It was kind of different.
But as soon as we went through the training there,
then we all deployed as a group over to to Iraq.
And we were a campcropper.
That's where the main prison facilities at.
It's right next to the airport there.
And you're basically broke down into geographical regions.
So you have groups that cover the South, the West, the North,
and then inside the North, they'll break it down further into different regions.
So the region I covered was the Diallo Province,
which is just north of Baghdad, Baku, Al-Khalas, Muqtadiya.
And what year? What year was this?
So we got there in just middle of October, 06.
And then we were there through October, 07.
So we were there pre-surge, and then we were there for the whole surge.
And that was a big difference, a big op-tempo difference.
There was a big change in the war.
I'd say we were there when it was the worst of the war.
And then kind of got to see a little bit of that transition
into where actually we started to win, started to win the peace, so to speak,
you know, towards the end.
And then when I got out, we went back home.
I left the Air Force
maybe like six months after our deployment time.
I was interviewing with one of the other agencies.
Then that didn't work out there, which, thank God, I didn't.
And then one of the other three
lower agency groups, because, you know, when you do this interrogation type work,
you work with some of these groups.
And so they're always looking to try to find people who can go good at it
and move them into their spot.
Right.
I'm glad that didn't work out that particular way,
because it would put me at a different career trajectory and path
than what I ultimately did.
You know, but I still went back to Iraq, you know,
for a couple more years with a couple of the contracting companies
with Dincorne and with Triple Canopy.
So I can't remember.
I can't recall at the top of my head, but 2006.
Was that after John Carriacou went on ABC and talked about enhanced interrogation?
It might have been.
And was there any sort of talks in your groups of people that you were there
with about that kind of stuff?
Because I know that was kind of like.
Well, yeah, the TV series 24 with Jack Bauer, right?
So everyone thinks that that's what interrogation is like.
You just, you know, hooking up, you know, electrodes and shocking people.
And, you know, and doing all those kinds of physical things to people.
It's really not that.
It's interrogations is much more about conversations.
It's about.
What a word smithing.
And on the military side, we were really constrained by the rules
and regulations that we had to operate under.
So you guys weren't allowed to waterboard?
Yeah. OK.
No, that would have.
That would have landed you in a world of trouble.
Really? An arrest. Oh, hands down, hands down.
Yeah. No, because you got.
You guys weren't at one of the CIA black sites.
That's why. Yeah, exactly.
Well, and if you were at a CIA black site, God help you if you're still considered
active military doing that, because you're under different rules
and regulations of what they are, you know, they have a different set
of rules that they can play by than we were under UCMJ.
And so we have we have to abide by what are our box, our box of tools are.
And it's constricting.
I mean, give you an example, someone gets captured and we bring them in.
Ideally, you want to put them in separation so that way they can't be
coached by the other people in the prison on what to say and how to evade us.
Yes. But to put them in separation,
I got to have a a O six, the colonel sign off to put them in separation
just for I think it was 72 hours.
And then if I want to put them in separation for up to a month,
now I've got to have my task force commander, which is a two to two
star general sign off on that just to have an isolation for 30 days.
And if I want to extend that for an additional 30 days,
then I would have to have our our theater commander.
So in my case, I'd have to have General Petraeus sign off on that.
And I did, I had him sign off on two of them because I had two guys
and we kept in separation for 60 days.
But that just shows you some of the red tape we had to deal with
because that's quite constraining.
You would think that should be a common sense thing,
because in the US we can put people in isolation,
people in isolation in prison for years.
But in a war, it's considered, you know,
in inhumane treatment or a prisoner or something like that.
But it's not in America.
Yeah. I mean, FBI can do this.
Prison system can do this, but you can't do that in a war.
It's quite quite interesting, the rules you had to deal with.
It'd be very careful with like perceived threats or direct threats to people.
You know, you can't directly threaten them.
Like, you don't talk to me, then, you know, we're going to harm your family.
Well, that's a direct threat.
That would lend you in a lot of trouble.
You know, you're probably going to get relieved and maybe pay some
museum J charges. Right.
So you had to learn how to be very good with your words and to say,
well, Lex, I can't make you cooperate.
You don't want to talk to me. That's fine. I get it.
But if you have no intelligence value to us, I'm going to have to work
on handing you over to the Rocky to the Ministry of Justice and the Rocky Police.
Well, if he's a Sunni terrorist, he's being handed over to
Ministry of Justice and the police who are predominantly run by Shia.
Well, it's not going to go very well for him.
So I didn't threaten him, but I let him make the connect the dots for himself.
Yeah. Yeah. And now he's got to prove why he should stay with me
and why he's valuable enough to be kept, because if he's not,
well, we'll send him down to Camp Bucca in the south.
And that's long term detainment.
And you'll just have to wait your turns.
You process through the criminal system and maybe you'll be acquitted
because they don't have any good evidence.
But that might take you two years or three years for that to happen.
So before you got sent over to Iraq, I'm sure you didn't have.
Did you have any sort of special interest in interrogation or psychology to begin with?
And what sort of training did you have to go through to learn these tactics?
Yeah. So I didn't have any.
I didn't have any previous experience in that or necessarily desire.
I would say it was a job I didn't know about.
And it's a job that most people don't know about or think about.
It's not a very big profession in the military to begin with.
And it tends to be a profession you only really need during a war.
Outside of war, it's kind of challenging to do that.
You end up working on the other side of the schoolhouse,
which is the source operations where you're developing sources,
recruiting and assessing people who can be informants for you, so to speak.
And you would do that outside of military bases overseas
to make sure you're assessing for threats against the facility
or against soldiers operating off the base, things like that.
So that's what you would tend to do more on the peace time side.
As far as the training, we all went through the same training
that they have out at Fort Wichita, the 97 Echo course.
I think it's probably changed the MOS at this point.
But, you know, it's about a four and a half months course.
And then they have a second course, an enhanced
interrogation analysis training, and that's where you kind of
repaired up more as Tiger teams, where it's you and an analyst
to working together as a team. Enhanced interrogation.
What? It was an enhanced interrogation analysis.
And analysis. Yeah.
So in this case, what you now is you have an analysis working with you.
And that's what we did.
We had there was us as the interrogator, then we had an Air Force
analyst working with us or a contract analyst and then our linguist
that formed your Tiger team.
And the analysis was really helpful because they could do a lot of the
research that you you you couldn't always do.
I mean, you're going into the booth, you're interrogating the subject,
you're talking with them.
But the analysis is sometimes vetting what they're telling you,
like in on the spot in real time. Yeah.
Or they're doing research of the prisoners that are coming in.
So my house, Jeremy, you is phenomenal.
And what would happen is when a bunch of new prisoners will come in,
he'll look at the incoming sheet and see who's coming in and where they were
captured. And we only dealt with prisoners that were coming in from the
Diala province. We knew our area, our province really well.
And if we had new prisoners coming in from a particular village,
then he would look and say, OK, what do we know about this village
from the previous guys we've interrogated?
And what do we need to know to further our mission in this area
to go after these other cells?
And that would help help me know specifically what questions to go after
or maybe ask them, do you know this other prisoner
and get him to tell me a bit more about this prisoner?
And I can kind of vet some of what he's already told me with this other guy.
Maybe it's true, but now I can also let this other guy know that, hey,
I know a hell of a lot about your area and I know a lot about you.
You know, you're here because someone marked.
So let's, you know, let's talk.
And that was really, really helpful because, again,
it's just another resource to help you track down information,
know where to steer you, where to point, so to speak.
And what do they teach you about breaking down the human mind
and sort of like getting into the deep dark secrets?
Yeah, the best thing I learned was from one of our instructors at the advanced school.
He was a retired Special Forces warrant officer and been interrogated for a long time
and a couple of tours on his belt before he retired, then went to school.
I was teaching us.
And one of the things he told me is he says he's like, all right,
it's kind of like knocking at someone's door when you start the interrogation.
You get them to open the door.
What you want to do is you want them to invite you in and start talking.
And then once they've invited you in, you want them to kind of give you a tour
of the house, tour of the rooms and see everything in there.
So to put it in like a conversation, when I'm.
When we start talking, I can either go at you and say,
where where's this where are the weapons that your organization is using?
Where are you hiding them?
Where are you storing them and how are you acquiring them?
Chances are you're not going to talk to me about that, but I can spend all day
grilling you about this, berating you, trying all kinds of different tactics.
But likely is it's not going to work or I can take a different attack and just
try to be more of a conversation with you and just try to accept that.
You know, we are adversaries, obviously, but you're still a human being.
So you still have human desires and wants and needs and things like that.
So let me play to those.
So kind of talk with them and ask them.
Just like I had one guy.
He was real big, big guy with the Anzal sooner organization.
And one of the things I talked with him was, why did you get into this?
Like, what did you do before the war?
So get him to talk about that.
And he owned a business.
He got his master's in economics.
He actually had a good life before the war.
And when I talked to him about that, I was like, so why are you doing this?
And his basic response as well.
When you guys came here, I lost everything.
I lost my stature and position in the community because I was, you know,
a SUNY, I was at the bath party and I have no future employment opportunities
and ability here.
So why would I, why would I not fight you?
Right.
You know, and that when I kind of got to that point there and we started talking,
right, I'm not accusing him of anything.
I'm asking him why he feels this way and why, why he's doing that.
He starts to open up more and then I say, all right, you're here now.
There's not what we can do about that.
So let's make the best of the situation.
Who are some of the other organizations in your area where you live
that are causing problems?
Because I'll cut in Iraq and then Anzal sooner and these other different
splinter groups, they're not always working together.
And sometimes they do.
Sometimes they work against each other.
But it's also ideological.
So there's going to be like a Shia organizations that are fighting against
the SUNY ones because it was kind of almost like a civil war anyway.
And the SUNY guys, the al-Qaeda guys will, they will get diarrhea in the mouth
about the, the Shia militias and insurgent groups and tell you everything
you want to know about them.
Well, we have a collection of requirements to go after that too.
It's not just the al-Qaeda ones.
We want to know who the other guys are that are causing the problems as well
and where they're smuggling their stuff in because their stuff comes in from Iran.
Um, so if you're going to talk with me about his organization, at least not right
away, thank you, let me get him talking about the other one.
And as we start sharing more and we start developing that bit of report,
now I can start whittling and get a little bit more information from him about his.
And in his case, um, it was more about how, how have you been able to outsmart
us all this time?
And he, his, he was kind of, uh, I was like arrogant, but he liked to brag
about how smart and effective his group was and how, how they had outfoxed us
for so many years and outsmarted us.
So I played that.
It's okay.
Well, how tell me about this.
And then just kind of like, oh man, that's so clever.
You guys did that.
I can't believe we were too stupid to figure this out and just kind of play along
with that.
And that led to him telling a lot more than he probably wanted to.
And you just kind of let them talk and let them talk and just poke and prod.
Um, it's conversational.
And another really big thing to do in this, it's all, it depends on the culture
you're dealing with, um, in the Middle East and in Arab cultures, uh, it's
very common to, uh, sit and break bread and have a meal.
And when you have meals with each other like that, you can't really, you know,
really adversaries, so to speak, in their culture.
And so it's not uncommon.
Um, you've seen this with Apgast and in some of the tribals, uh, relationships
in the way they interact, they can be sitting, have dinner together in, in
converse normally, and then the next day they're fighting each other.
Right?
Right.
Us in the West, it just doesn't compute like, why would you do that?
Um, but that's their culture.
And so when you kind of understand their culture a little bit, you start, you know,
just play along with it.
So for me, we would sit and have, you know, have a meal dinner with tears.
So you're letting these guys, these guys obviously aren't constrained.
They aren't handcuffed.
They're, you know, I've got an MP outside.
And if you're sitting out there with a taser and a German shepherd,
he's ready to go.
So I mean, if they want to get feisty, grab his fork or his knife and
just like leap across the table.
Couldn't he?
Maybe if you want to grab, it's a plastic fork.
Oh, okay.
Gotcha.
It's like it's a real one.
Yeah.
I mean, sure, they can do something too.
The chances of them killing you pretty slim.
Um, maybe you might get punched in the face or get hurt, but the guards are
going to be on them pretty quick.
I mean, and hopefully you're going to have a little bit of your own wits about
you to be able to, you know, defend your own self too a little bit.
But we never had an incident like that.
We didn't have any incidents like that in a way.
I was kind of surprised, but when you get there and you kind of see it,
I mean, they're in this, they're not getting out of this prison.
And so, you know, they're, I don't want to say they're broken, but they
kind of accepted that they're here.
That makes sense.
What, what sort of hope do they have?
Like by answering your questions and cooperating with you, do you give them
any sort of hope of being free or what do you make them?
Any promises?
Yes, you can do all of those things.
Um, whether you have a lot of influence and getting them out, that's
kind of questionable sometimes if, if the subject you're talking with, if the
person you're talking with is a, um, a good, a high enough asset, like to say
they've got really good placement and access in their organization.
And there's potential that they could be recruited as a source to work for you.
Um, maybe you can have them working, doing, um, collections for you inside
the camp against other prisoners, um, or they may be able to get recruited
by one of the other agencies to go work outside the camp.
Um, that did happen.
It's not very frequent, uh, but it would, there was one off cases where
that kind of stuff would happen.
Um, generally speaking, your objective is to get the intel.
So if you have to lie to these guys, make up, uh, work with the, the jack, the
military lawyers who crapped up these cleverly worded, um, uh, you know, uh,
amnesty things, like, Hey, confess to all these different things or tell us about
all this, your sins will be forgiven, so to speak.
You could come up with a lot of those things and is ruses and use those.
And I mean, you're getting your job to collect intel.
You're not there, you're not, you're not their friend.
You're not there to get them out of the prison.
You're there to get intel.
So, uh, if it works and gets you intel, great.
And once you've gotten everything you need, sounds callous, but when you've
got everything you need, um, typically they're just transferred down to
long-term deter, detainment.
That's down south of the other camp.
Um, and I mean, you can write up, um, you know, a letter and you just explain
like, I've interrogated this guy now for X number of times this many hours.
We've talked about these different things here is my belief.
And based on the, the information intelligence we collect up to this point,
he's not involved in this or this is not true or this is, he's not involved
with these different things.
And the person has provided substantial information to help coalition forces and
help the government of Iraq and the list out the litany of things they've done.
And you can do those kinds of things and put that in their file for them.
And then when they, their file is reviewed, eventually by the ministry of justice,
you know, the prosecutors, there was a lot of times where that holds a whole lot of
weight and usually ends up, you know, absolving them from whatever the charge was,
because it couldn't be backed up.
You get the, the interrogator and the anti-law say the same thing,
those guys usually get to walk.
Okay.
And so, I mean, you can do things like that.
But, you know, again, when I first got there, we had two to 400 new persons coming in a week.
They were captured, filtered down to our camp.
And there's only about like 50, 48 to 60 of us.
Not a lot.
That's a lot of new people coming in that have to be screened and interrogated.
And you already got 5,000 in the camp too.
So, you've got guys you're already talking to, you got two to 400 new ones coming in.
Now, when the surge happened, we suddenly had 30,000, not 30,000 extra troops.
We had 30,000 extra infantry troops guys to go kick down doors.
Big difference in like support guys.
They were just capture killed people left and right.
I mean, it was just heyday.
And that count went from two to 400 a week to six to 800 a week sometimes.
That's a lot of people coming in.
And our interrogation numbers didn't go up.
Like we didn't get more interrogators to offset that workload.
We just had to work more hours and handle that.
So, there'll be times where you've got 16 cases you're already handling.
16 guys you're handling.
And you're section chief going like,
sorry man, but here's five more new ones.
And you're like, ugh.
So, how do you figure, how do you get through it all?
And I'd have clever different ways of just line up and have like six guys,
eight guys interrogate in one night and just kind of make them really quick
assessments more or less for me.
It's not straight up interrogation at that point.
It's giving me an assessment.
Who's going to be reasonably cooperative that I can talk with?
And he has intelligence that's worth my time to exploit.
And who's just, who's not?
Because I don't have time to spend days or weeks trying to break someone down.
Unless there are really high value, we're just not going to necessarily put that kind
of effort into it.
Because again, I've got 600 new ones showing up every week.
That's insane.
And I still need to get
actual intelligence out of the ones I have.
So, you really got to balance your time.
Did you speak Arabic?
Can you speak Arabic?
No, I did not.
And you wouldn't have been allowed to interrogate in Arabic even if you did speak it.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor, Verso.
Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed I
am with health and longevity.
Which is why one of my favorite guests to have on this show is nutritional scientist
and neuroscientist, Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this stuff.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold a potential to increase longevity.
The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells or old damage cells that linger
beyond their useful life.
These zombie cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process,
causing things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia,
and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy,
meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with new ones.
Verso's new clean being, which I take every night,
is a powerful blend of synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup
processes like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health,
supporting lower inflammation and natural cardio-protective functions,
while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine,
lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin, which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are
essential for cell growth and proliferation.
Specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order.
I linked it all below. Now back to the show.
Based on the rules and everything that was in place there,
we had to work through a do-it-interpreter.
So all of our interpreters were US citizens.
Usually they had secret or top secret clearances,
but your question had to be asked in English.
The interpreter would interpret it into Arabic,
and then they would interpret it back and then back to you.
That's how it had to be done, because all of our interrogations were
very recorded and monitored.
So other agencies could pop in to just check and make sure you're abiding by the rules and
regulations and do spot checks.
And they have to hear that you are asking the question in English,
because they may not speak Arabic.
And if you do speak Arabic and you could be asking,
you could be asking questions you're not allowed to ask, making threats,
making insinuations that you're not allowed to insinuate or do.
And languages mean different things than English versus Arabic,
and so it's got to be very clear what it is you meant to say.
It's very quite rule-based.
So after that 2005 Detainee Treatment Act that Senator Feingold and Senator McCain
kind of shackled us with, they really put the chains on us.
Interesting.
Not fans of those guys.
What did you learn from, say, your first interrogation you ever did over there
until your 100th interrogation?
What did you learn personally about these people, and what did you learn?
Did you learn anything about yourself and the human mind?
How did you evolve?
So I'm talking probably about 110 or so.
Maybe people, maybe a little more, maybe a little less,
but probably in total about 550 interrogations, I think,
over maybe about 2,100 hours give or take in a year.
So it's a lot of time to spend with these guys.
My first interrogation, what I learned is these guys will lie through their teeth
to get out of what they're apprehended for, as they're just going to lie incessantly.
And it's kind of your job to figure out, okay, what are they lying about?
How can I turn this lie into something that I can work with?
And a lot of it goes back to trying to recognize that we are adversaries,
but they're still a person.
And if they're a person, they've got needs, wants, and desires.
So how do you work those needs, wants, and desires to your advantage to get what you need?
Because, again, it's different than a criminal.
I'm not trying to prosecute the guy.
I don't care if he's guilty.
I care if he has intel that leads to the capture kill of his comrades
and to remove these violent extremists from the community.
We can't end the violence in the cities and in the villages
if we don't remove these people from the streets.
And that's just the number one goal, get them out of there, figure out where the
weapons are coming in from, who's financially supporting them.
And it comes with finances.
My God, are they clever?
They are so clever with the finances.
You know, one of the guys I talked about in my book, the book I wrote about,
my experiences on there.
Which book was that?
That was an interview with the terrorists.
I didn't bring that one here with you.
So I had a guy who lived in Germany for about six years, he's from Bakuba.
And he was coming back to pick up his wife and then smuggle her back out of
Iraq back to Germany.
And he got caught on a random checkpoint that special forces threw up.
And his name and information was on a be on the lookout list, a bullet list.
And that's how he got caught, just randomly like that.
But how we acquired this dude's information was wild.
So what happens is when they need to get money into Iraq to funnel and support these guys,
different charitable organizations in Europe and elsewhere, what they'll do is take the money
to the people who are donating for the cause, whatever.
They buy really expensive vehicles, high end BMWs, Mercedes, it's called 100 plus
thousand dollar vehicles.
They ship them into Kuwait.
And then someone on the other end receives them.
They take them and drive them up to Baghdad.
And then they use for one or two purposes.
Either they're sold and then that money that they make from the sale of the vehicle
is now used to pay the salaries of the fighters for the different organizations
or used to buy the weapons, things like that.
It's a way of smuggling in money without doing through normal banking systems.
That's the wall and network.
And then the other thing they would use it for is car bombs.
So when you see a BMW 7 series driving up near a convoy or heading towards a gate,
one of the military gates to come on the base, you're not really going to think that this BMW 7
series, brand spanking new, is a car bomb.
You're thinking that beat up jalopy over there that's riding a little low on its suspension
is the car bomb.
And you'd be right.
That usually is the car bomb.
So those high end vehicles had much better luck at getting really close to the gates
before they would set off their bombs.
And when you set off 1,000, 2,000 pounds of car,
riding a gate like that, you're going to cause some major damage.
So what happened is when one of those incidents happened, we look at all the evidence that's
left behind the vehicle.
So you find the bin numbers for the vehicles.
You put it all down there.
You keep track of the bins.
And then when they did a raid on someone they thought was tied to this whole network,
they discovered all the paperwork for the vehicles that were coming in.
And they traced one of those vehicles to one of the car bombs to this manifest.
And then from that shipping manifest, they had the end destination in Germany who shipped it.
So we put that guy's name on a bullet.
That guy got caught in a Kubo with my prisoner.
We had the whole thing.
We had the whole thing linked together.
So now he's caught.
So now he's in here.
And he had no idea how we found out about him.
We caught him, but that's how we did.
And that's just one method that they use for smuggling in money.
Right.
And they've gotten way more clever now.
I mean, obviously everyone knows about crypto.
There's other ways where they use SIM cards because you can load money on SIM cards
and for phones and things like that.
You can do that and move that.
Because it's very easy to take the little SIM cards, dump thousands of dollars on these things,
and then move these SIM cards around and then hand them out.
And then they can go change the money and do what they want.
And it's all done under the radar without the banking system knowing about it.
And it's very, very hard to track.
Was there one interrogation that you did that sort of led to some sort of big win for you
or like a big victory for your team?
Is there one that sticks out in your mind?
Yeah, I mean, we had a couple of them like that.
So my guy that we caught in Jeremy was a really big one because as we unraveled that case,
we started to, we had ideas on who else was involved in Europe and other countries
and in other regions of the world.
And so we started filtering in these names.
Like I would just say, well, why did this person here talk about or mention X, Y, or Z?
And my prisoner would respond back, well, he doesn't know about this
or he's not involved with that.
Well, my guy just inadvertently acknowledged he knows this guy
and this guy is involved in the organization.
So where we thought we weren't sure if he was involved, now we know he's involved
because our guy who is involved confirmed it.
And they don't realize that that's what's happening.
Right.
And so that was a big win for us because it wasn't like the sexy weapon cash
or you captured someone here in Iraq.
But it was though, was it a big win for uncovering a massive web of financing that was happening,
financing the organizations and the money flowing in.
And that was really big because if you can dry that up,
it makes it a lot harder for them to pay their fighters and continue to acquire weapons
and do things and bribe people.
So it was a big deal to kind of bust that.
But it wasn't directly addressing things inside of Iraq.
I guess we would think or want sometimes.
But it had a big impact in the overall mission though.
Because you're drying up the money.
And we're identifying a bunch of things in Europe we didn't previously know about.
That was a really big deal.
But my focus is kind of on Iraq, not what's going on in Europe, if that makes sense.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Was there any specific interrogation that fucked with you psychologically?
That kind of gave you, I mean, you mentioned now that you obviously have figured out a way
to combat your PTSD with writing and different kinds of therapies.
But is there, what part of your job over there was the most disturbing?
So the most disturbing is just seeing it when you get these guys.
You have the capture package.
You got the intel package, what we have on the suspect, right?
What we have on the guy.
It's pretty disturbing stuff.
These are not nice people.
It's not like this is some drug dealer or some gang member.
These are really hardened terrorists.
I had one guy, his organization had kidnapped a son for a tribal shake,
one of the local tribal shakes.
And they were trying to hold him.
They wanted to basically ransom the kid.
And they got the father to pay up the money.
I think it was like a hundred thousand US dollars or something.
And so they got the money.
And they said, okay, well, your son's in the trunk of this car in this location here.
The drop's made.
So they got the money.
Here's the location of the vehicle and your son's in the trunk.
And son wasn't in the trunk.
Problem was his son's in the trunk in like a bunch of different pieces.
And this was how they think and operate like this.
And now I have to, you know, interrogate this guy.
Obviously, you'd like to, you know, be a little physical with someone like that,
but you can't.
You got to divorce yourself from that and try to figure out how do I be buddy buddy friends
with this guy to get info information to go kill and capture his buddies.
That's kind of hard to accept and deal with.
But you have lots of situations like that.
You know, there's that one.
There's just other ones we had.
We had, there was a bunch of, some Iraqi cops were working for one of the units that we worked
with a lot as sources provide them intel and what was going on in the village and stuff.
Well, they got outed.
Somehow the, you know, kind of guys in that village discovered who was,
who was narking on them, who was feeding them information on them to the Americans.
And so when they figured that out, you know, they captured the four guys, but you know,
they do their little videos.
They always load their videos.
So, you know, here's a video of them getting their heads, you know, kind of, you know,
saw it off with these lives and then they're just kicking their heads around like soccer balls.
They're animals.
And, you know, now we've got the guy that was responsible for it.
And we have to interrogate this guy and try to get him to give up the goods on.
Where are the, where are they keeping these videos?
A lot of times they would post at the time of a lot of this stuff was getting posted up to YouTube,
you know, before YouTube, maybe YouTube is really coming out.
So there's, there's there, there's other old kind of websites that they would post these things on
and share these things about.
And it's just, it's, it's a terror weapon because what they're trying to do by doing a
horrific act like that is demonstrate to the local population that this is the price for
cooperating with the Americans, cooperate with coalition forces.
This is what happens.
And it's a chilling effect because then nobody wants to work with you.
And when you say, well, we can protect you, we will help you.
They're just going to say, well, you can help these cops here.
Yeah, you couldn't help these cops.
Right, right.
How are you going to help us?
And so nobody starts talking to you until we, until we eliminate those guys.
And that's why they do a lot of those, those horrific things.
But, you know, you have to see a lot of this.
You have to be involved a lot of this and questioning and talking with these guys.
And if you fail to ask the right question, you know, people can get killed.
You know, we had one operation.
I mentioned in an area of comment stories where we got actual intel on where a very
large weapon cache was going to be located at for one cell that we were targeting.
And this new unit had just been in country a couple of weeks, I think it was,
up out of Bakuba.
And we told them this particular route is got all our IEDs and car bombs on it.
That says they want you to go this route because this is where they're going to hit you.
And they got all these ambushes laid out for you.
This is what this guy was telling you?
Yeah, this is what our prisoner told us.
He said, look, don't go this route.
You know, he's actually a very cooperative guy.
He's getting us good intel on.
He's passed polygraph, you know, with polygraph prisoners.
He's passed all that stuff.
So we reasonably think he's telling us the truth.
So he tells us, don't, you know, here's what the stuff's going to happen.
And to take this other path.
So we passed it on to the unit that was going to action it.
And this new unit, like I said, they just got in there.
They're there to, you know, slay bodies and take names.
They just want to fight.
And so they want to get engaged.
So we told them all that.
And they're like, well, hey, if this is where the fight's at,
we're going to go to, we're going to advance contact and engage.
We'd rather you not, because we'd rather you go this other route here
and not get ambushed and actually get to the weapons side and in,
you know, seize the weapons and the explosives,
because that's more important than your firefight.
Yeah.
But that's not the path they chose.
So they went, they went the other way and, you know,
they got involved in a couple of fights and, you know,
they got ambushed twice and we lost six guys that day.
You know, and that sucks because it was,
it didn't have to happen that way.
And the fight lasted long enough to move the damn weapons.
Why didn't they listen to you guys?
They don't believe the prisoner.
Because they, you know, like, well, we don't,
we don't say believe that he's telling us the truth or whatever it was.
And so they just kind of want to do their own thing.
It's kind of frustrating because I mean, it is a prisoner.
You're having to, you're having to trust that this prisoner,
who's in all kind of operative, is giving you the truth.
And that's kind of hard to accept sometimes.
That kind of like just defeats the purpose of your job though.
You would think, yeah.
Because in this case, we proved out that, yeah,
our guy was actually right.
It helped validate his future stuff because now everyone believed him
a whole lot more than they did before.
I mean, he passed the polygraph twice.
That wasn't enough for some people.
But when the car bomb and the ID went off
in the exact freaking locations he said they would,
well, now they kind of believed him a little bit more.
And his subsequent information was treated a lot,
with a lot more credibility, so to speak.
And other times, you just forget to ask a question, right?
I think I mentioned this in the interview.
I had a 15-year-old kid that we were interrogating.
We don't usually interrogate kids, but this kid got caught,
placed an IDA on the side of the road.
One of the units on patrol saw it, so they nabbed him.
How old was he?
15.
And so we can't hold him very long.
We can only hold him for like three days or seven days,
something like that.
And we got to let him back out to their family, right?
And so when I have the guy, we're doing it for tactics
or trying to scare him into cooperating and talking.
And the target was his father and his three brothers.
They ran this big IED cell up in the northern Baghdad area,
and that's what we were trying to go after was to get these guys.
I had you figure that out just because you got it.
We had a lot of intel on this family, this area.
This was just at the edge of the Dialog Promise
in Baghdad proper, so that region up there was just a lot of IEDs
and car bombs going off, and we kind of knew who was doing it.
And we know that from different signals, intelligence,
and intercepts, things like that.
So we kind of, we had an idea of who they were.
And when we captured the kid and have his ID, we're like,
okay, now we know this is their son.
So we want to know where they are at.
And his concern was he didn't want to give us a location
because he's concerned that if we go to where they're at,
that we're going to end up killing his father and his brother.
I'm like, look, dude, I can't talk to dead people.
I want to talk to live people.
So tell me where they're at.
Tell me how I can capture them.
Well, conversation.
And we go through and get the location, any points out where it's at.
So tell me about the details of it.
And you just forget sometimes to make sure you get everything.
So when a door opens, is it open in or out?
And does it have a lock on the top and on the floor and then center?
You need those kind of details.
All those little pieces of information.
Same with windows.
Do the windows have your bars on them?
Are the bars on the outside, on the inside,
or are they built into the wall?
You got to know all those little nuanced questions and things to ask.
It's a whole litany of things you need to make sure you kind of go through
when they start cooperating and start giving you information.
Because if the doors, if you don't get that information right,
when the unit goes to action, they may try to bust the doors in
because they see that the door is going to go in.
Until they use the ram, they think, oh, we'll just ram it and go in.
But if there's locks on the tops and the bottoms,
they're not going to know to have a shotgun with the slug to bust it open.
So when they start ramming this thing, it's going to take them a couple of hits.
And those couple of hits are going to delay your entry by seconds.
Those few seconds are typically all they need to wake up,
grab their weapons, and start engaging.
So you want to go in with lightning speed and do that.
And in our case, me and my aunts, we just missed it.
We missed one of the questions on a lock.
And the unit got into the house.
It took them like an extra three to five seconds to get in.
That was all the time they needed, though.
To grab their guns.
To grab their guns and start shooting.
And next thing you know, they're in a firefight.
So one of our guys got his arm shot off.
Another guy got shot in the chest plate so he survived.
But after that gunfight was going on, the commander on the ground was like,
screw this.
If I got two guys injured, we got a gunship overhead.
Just have them level it.
And so hit it with a missile and flatten the building.
Problem solved, right?
An airplane dropped a ball on it?
No, a helicopter.
One of the helicopters.
A helicopter.
Yeah.
So the suspects we were after, the father and the three sons that were building
all these IDs and stuff like that, they're dead.
But they were taken off the chess board.
So good there.
The problem is we also nailed his grandmother and his mother and his
five brothers and sisters in the house too.
All kind of damage.
They were there at the fight.
And so after that, the unit takes all of the pictures for everyone.
You need to go back to this 15-year-old with all these pictures and tell him PID is family.
That sucks.
Because I got to go ahead and have him PID his dad and his brother to make sure that
they are who we actually got the right guys.
But here you promised him, if he gives you the information on where they're at,
you're not going to kill him.
Well, you broke that promise.
And now that you break the promise, you also wiped out his entire family.
So kind of like the burning hatred in that kid's eyes.
Yeah.
It's like, yeah, we just made a terrorist right there.
Yep.
Hands down.
And you don't think about it at that moment, at that time.
Because as soon as I'm done talking with him and confirm that we got the guys,
I'm already on to the next interrogation.
And then the next one, the next one, I have like three or four or five of these a day.
And it's just a repetitive cycle over and over and over.
And before, you know, an entire year's gone by.
I can imagine you become numb to this stuff.
You do.
You do.
And you don't really even think about a lot of it.
It's not until you come home and things start to slow down,
that you start to have some more of these problems.
And for me, I didn't encounter a lot of those kinds of problems until probably like 2014,
2015, when things really started to get bad.
Because at that point, I've now, I'm out of Iraq.
I'm out of the Intel stuff.
I'm not working in Europe doing that anymore.
I'm back home.
I'm completely out.
And when I'm completely out and have that time to think,
that's when it starts to hit you.
That's when you start processing and all that stuff.
And you go, wow, I can't believe we did all this stuff.
You know,
You just explained the hit on that kid's family who was making the IEDs
and dropping the bomb on the house and leveling them.
How often would mistakes happen where you would kill a family that was innocent?
And or bust, have some guys bust into somebody's door and you get the wrong guys.
You kill the wrong people.
That's hard to know.
I don't know.
I mean, I suspect it happens probably more often than you'd want to admit.
I mean,
so when U.S. forces going to do these things, we're not just like going up to a house and
just pulling a pin and throwing it in the room and just letting the granny go off and clear it.
I'm sure that's probably what a lot of the Russians and Ukrainians are doing in their fight.
But that's not how we fought.
That's not what we were doing.
And by and large, our guys were pretty good about identifying who they are when they're entering
and going in at nights.
You go in at night, they're usually asleep.
You can usually intercept the area pretty quickly and to do them.
But the things happen.
You can't always account for that.
And one of the things that was hard for me to accept was accepting that part there
and just realizing that at the end of the day, the enemy gets a vote just like you do.
And their vote is almost always going to go against you.
And when that vote's cast, it's cast.
The fight's going to happen.
And sometimes people are going to get caught in the wrong place, wrong time.
You can do everything you can to mitigate that.
You can do everything you can to try and avoid that.
But at the end of the day, the enemy still chose to fight.
His father and his brothers chose to fight.
They chose to participate in this insurgency.
They chose to make these IEDs, these car bombs and make themselves a target and attack us
and attack the government of Iraq.
And try to destabilize the region.
That was their choice.
So unfortunately, their family was present during the capture
and they chose to fight when their kids were in the room.
Kids were present.
That's out of our control.
And that's hard to accept.
That's hard to accept that that's what happens.
But it took years for me to kind of just get to a point where you just accept
that the enemy gets their own vote too.
And it's almost always going to be against you.
And so you can only control your actions.
You can't control theirs.
But it is what it is, unfortunately.
I mean, the war is ugly.
It's brutal.
It's not something we want to romanticize or embellish or talk lightly about.
It should be avoided and be a last resort.
But when it's time to go to war,
it's time to put the war face on and go to war and kill the bastards
and wipe them out as fast and as quickly and efficiently as you can so you can end it.
We shouldn't be trying these things out for years and decades like that.
Nobody wins those kind of wars.
What was it like you just explained getting home and having time to think
and time to reflect on the things that were happening and how long did that take
for that to sort of kick in and for you to really start to deal with those psychological effects?
So the first time I came back to Iraq
it was weird because my last time at our camp,
we were getting rocketed and bombed that night.
So I'm sitting there in my bunker thinking to myself,
man, I'm going to want to get blown up my last few hours in this camp.
And then four days later, you're walking around the Brandon Mall.
How do you equate that?
You're sitting here where you got rockets and mortars hitting your base
and the alarms going off, the CRAM incoming alarms going off.
And then you're walking around the Brandon Mall and people are sipping on their drinks
and walking around like nothing.
In World War II, you had that shared experience.
Everyone had to ration.
Everyone was making a sacrifice for the war.
In Iraq, you have gas and nobody's sacrificing anything.
They weren't asked to pay extra money in taxes.
They weren't asked to ration anything.
They weren't being drafted and impacted like that.
So society was very divorced from the reality of what was happening.
And so that was a little hard.
But I didn't have as much time to really reflect and think about that
until after I left that whole world behind, so to speak.
And then you kind of started to realize, wow,
nobody has had a clue what's going on overseas.
They don't realize the threats that we're dealing with,
that we're fighting constantly, handling, they're just ignorant.
They're just not aware of it.
But you are.
And now that you've left it, you see how everyone's like,
how can they be so divorced from reality?
It's a little hard to rationalize and kind of deal with.
But you kind of get to a point where it took me years to kind of get there
and I still struggle with some of it now.
But it's just accepting that, again, the enemy gets their vote on it
and that there is a time and a season to kill and a time and a season to heal.
And you kind of have to figure out that.
I think we talked about this yesterday is that as a society where we're taught
that you live a certain way, you act in a certain way.
And then when you go to war, that goes away.
Like that's all gone.
Now it's this kind of savage nature of us versus them.
And that's not how we're taught in society to act and be like.
And so when you come home, you have to put that aside and go back to this
normal person that you're supposed to fit into society.
Correct.
And that can be a little hard of an adjustment to do.
And some people do it, but others.
And some people just really kind of struggle with that.
I don't know if it's situation, training, what really causes some people to
struggle with it more than others.
Sometimes it's just like an accumulation of everything you have seen and done.
It just can be so overwhelming.
I mean, I struggle with it a lot.
And I think that I think as long as you're willing to constantly talk about it
and seek different help and alternatives, that can really help you eventually find
some peace with it.
Because you got to have to make peace with it at some point.
If you don't, it's just going to eat you alive or eventually just eat a gun.
And that's unfortunately what a lot of veterans are doing because they can't make that peace.
How long did it take before you started looking into different types of therapies to
combat your depression or your PTSD?
So originally, the VA loves to go to the pharmacology route, right?
So that's their first choice, give you some drugs.
But the problem is a lot of those drugs, all they do is numb the problem.
They just put a bandaid over it.
Like I remember when we were in Iraq, dude, we would get super stressed out with our job.
Just all that crap you're having to see all the time and deal with all the time.
And then on top of it, you still got these freaking rockets and bombs hitting your base
and dealing with that.
And then you got issues with home.
You got your superiors, your management, we like to call them.
Maybe they're good.
Maybe they're not.
It was quite stressful.
But they had these combat stress clinics you can go to.
Over there?
Yeah, yeah.
And I remember going there and one of the psychologists, psychiatrists,
you know, psychiatrists, he gave me a prescription for a Lectipro.
Man, I wish I'd gotten that when I first got to Iraq.
That made me like the coldest, detached interrogator I could possibly be.
What kind of drug is that?
So Lectipro is an SSRI type drug.
So that's sorry.
So what it basically kind of does is it suppresses some of your emotions.
Your dog could die and you just wouldn't care.
You just didn't care.
Just really kind of deadened you a little bit.
And in our job, that was quite helpful to kind of deaden some of that.
That way you could just wade through this mountain of shit and kind of get through it
without losing your mind.
Interesting.
It's kind of like a painkiller type drug.
Can you find that?
Maybe like a painkiller for the mind.
I don't know.
But Lectipro is a pretty common anti-depressant type drug that they use.
It was pretty helpful.
Oh, it's an anti-depressant.
Yeah.
So you'd use that.
Although there's other stuff that I think works better.
Because again, the VA is going to go to the pharmacology.
I'll take that and give you that.
Is there anything else you could do to get out of there?
Like, can you get out and like go for a run?
Can you go to the gym?
Yeah, yeah.
No, I mean, so, yeah, when we're in, yeah, that's the childhood.
That's it.
Okay.
So, yeah, when you're at the base, I mean, you've got the MWRs.
You've got the gym.
You can go for a run around the camp if you want, different things like that.
But at the end of the day, you're kind of trapped in that camp,
big tall walls.
You can't get it out.
I mean, my job is not to leave the wire.
I'm way too valuable to leave the wire because there's only so many freaking interrogators
that are in Iraq and there is just an endless supply of prisoners.
So, they would love nothing more to keep us strapped to a chair
with an IV feedback if possible.
Jesus.
Just to keep us interrogating, you know.
Click on that.
What does Luxe Pro do for a person, Austin?
Down.
Oh, yeah.
That's that effect, man.
It's used to treat depression and generalized anxiety disorder.
It is an antidepressant that, yeah,
you're the belongs to a group of medicines known as SSRIs.
Huh, never heard of it.
I mean, no things will fuck you up.
They can't.
Yeah.
Well, there's all kinds of side effects to those kinds of drugs, too.
You know, from, you know, just deadening your cognitive ability,
you know, your sharpness a little bit, you know, sexual side effects.
I mean, there's lots of different issues and problems with these kinds of drugs.
But this is what the VA does because that's what they are allowed to give you and do.
They're not able to say, hey, let's try medical marijuana.
Let's try ketamine.
Let's try these cell ganglion block injections.
Well, it's interesting, too.
This is what they find that most of the school shooters in this country are the people that
shoot up public shootings, mass shootings.
They're on these things.
Yes.
Yeah, because they have, they either work very well or they actually will have the
opposite effect where they'll like almost like exacerbate these psychotic, you know, tendencies.
So that's why you got to be under really good strict care in talking with them,
understanding how people respond and develop to these things.
And the problem with kids, kids' minds are constantly growing and developing.
They're not set.
Right.
So when you introduce drugs, SSRI drugs that mess with the chemical balances in their
brains, you're kind of jacking up that development a little bit.
Yes.
And it's really dangerous.
That's why they talk about marijuana actually on people who are, I think it was under 25 or 23
actually can have really bad problems in the brain, like actually lead them to develop,
you know, schizophrenia or bipolar.
Yes.
There's, you know, there's, that's been shown.
Yeah.
That lot, there's lots of psychedelic drugs that affect with kids that have done it too
much or abused it at a young age.
Yep.
Yep.
And it damages them because I think it's cool and fun and want to continue to do that.
And we as a society are like, oh, whatever, it's just marijuana that can get addictive.
But no, it's not about getting addicted.
It's about altering their psychology.
They don't, their mind is they're developing and getting older.
This is something I talk about all the time too, because if you look at,
I don't know how big the percentage is, but it's got to be more than 80% of kids in America that
are like in their teens are prescribed Adderall.
You know why?
Here's the problem.
We don't let kids be kids.
We want to have, all right, let's boys are, they're, they're noisy.
They're loud.
They're energetic.
They're physical.
They like to, that's what, that's how they are geared, right?
Mm-hmm.
But we've stopped having kids have recess and play and, and just be boys and just be kids.
Right.
We want them to all be like these neutered little saints that just sit there and look
nice and just, yes, ma'am, no, ma'am, and do school.
But that's not how their brains are wired.
Right.
That's not how psychologically they're built.
And we're not letting them do that.
And, you know, how do you combat that?
That you pump them full of Adderall and SRIs.
And then you screw them up mentally because now they don't know how to,
they become teenagers and then adults, young adults, and they don't know how to interact
with other people and talk normally and say, Hey, you and I, we could be politically
opposite or totally disagree, but we can still be friends and go have a beer.
That's okay.
Just because we, you're a Dolphins fan and I'm a Bucks fan doesn't mean we have to kill each
other.
I mean, that's, you know, that's what we have to get
back to that kind of mentality.
It's okay to disagree.
Right.
Yeah, it's scary to think about what kind of effect that's having on people.
That combined with the, you know, social media and people just communicating through
phones and through text messaging and, you know, watching videos, like even with war today,
like people now just, you watch what happens and I don't know if this is the first war,
this Ukraine war is the first one that we've had just a front row seat view.
Oh, it's been brutal.
Absolutely brutal.
Seeing all that stuff going on there and I see what's happening and I see that so many
people are just getting maimed from, you know, from the artillery from the shaft on things
like that.
You're talking about a whole society that's just going to have these, all these people
are just maimed and injured and you're just watching on the front row and it's brutal.
Like these, I'll see these pictures of like a copter drone dropping, you know, a hand grenade
on a couple of soldiers unsuspectingly in a trench and go off and, you know, you can read
the comments and just see everyone is just cheering it on and in what it's like.
Those are two people down there.
Okay.
Those guys just got maimed and injured from that hand grenade.
Maybe they are killed.
They may be the enemy, but, you know, let's not celebrate their deaths, you know.
Right.
And we're desensitizing ourselves to the point where we're not seeing our fellow humans as humans
and it's just like video game mantra.
It's like, okay, well, Ukraine war is just a giant video game, right?
It's just video game.
It's like, no, it's not a video game.
There's a real people on the other end getting killed and they have families.
They have, you know, they have mothers and wives and kids and I don't, you know,
it's just, it's just strange seeing how our societies evolved using social media to just
cheer this kind of stuff on, cheer the killing of other people on.
It's like, it's almost like a Roman gladiator time where everyone would cheer people getting,
you know, killed in the gladiatorial arena and it's kind of like, well,
Twitter is our gladiatorial arena.
Let's jump on here and see on the Russian or Ukrainian side and watch these people
getting killed like that and cheer it on.
It's really quite detached and strange.
Yeah.
The thing that really gets to me is that none of these people that argue about Ukraine and
Russia and all the wars that are going on now, most of them have no experience of war.
You know what I mean?
A lot of it, all of the knowledge they have.
They're not volunteering to go over there either because they can.
They have no experience of anything real.
Anything, like they have no actual firsthand experience of anything.
All they can do is just read articles, watch videos, depending on who they follow or who
they listen to.
And it's so, that makes it so bizarre to me that they're willing to fight to the death on this
digital platform about something they read or some video they watched.
And they just decide to adopt this idea and they're going to die on that hill
because of that video they watched because they trust that person.
I hope that at the end of the stuff that there's some good efforts put forward to try and help
these guys mentally and psychologically recover from this stuff.
Because we did not do a good job of that exiting Iraq and Afghanistan, helping vets
just detransition from that into something new.
And pumping people full of SSRIs and antidepressants isn't the way to go either.
Because you just don't want, you need them to be productive members of society.
So how do you help them heal and get better?
I was listening to, I saw the 60 minutes episode that Dakota Myers did.
It was that Marine Medal of Honor recipient.
He did a 60 minute episode on that Stelit ganglion block injections,
SGV injections. It's basically a nerve in the neck here that they do a nerve block on.
And so when someone gets triggered, right, the brain sends that fight or flight signal
down to your, down to your, your heart and your dumps adrenaline gets you kind of riled up and
going. Well, when they numb that nerve, when they do that, that block, when that fight or
flight happens, it hits, it goes down and hits the block and bounces back.
And it's almost like resets you a little bit.
It gives you that, it kind of quiet things down, so to speak.
I guess like a way to explain is when you're, you're in that moment, you feel like everything's
kind of closing in, like you just have that anxiousness, that jitteriness.
The SGV, when they do that injection, it just kind of like
calms things. And how I'll sort of describe, it's kind of more of like a calming,
allows you to not be as jumping and jittery and just no fuse, right?
What is the injection? What are they injecting?
So they're injecting, you know, lidocaine, it's like a nerve block,
as they do on the neck. There's two nerves on either side. They only do them one at a time
because they usually, it'll sometimes, it can leave part of your face, like a little,
a little numb or drooped for an hour or two and then it goes away.
And sometimes you can only need one injection. It can last you, you know, a year, two years.
Sometimes you may need three or four. It just depends on how your body responds to it
and kind of the severity of the trauma too, because the brain has gone through a lot.
It has, synopsis are very wired for certain things that trigger it all the time.
You have to try to redo that now. So the SGV is really good for helping to block
those triggers, like give you an extra few, so to speak, and help quiet it down a little bit.
But you still have to redo the rewiring in the brain. And that's where you've seen some guys
using some of the different psychedelic drugs over, you know, you should go to Mexico and do
them and whatnot. And that helps a lot of that. Ketamine actually is a really good one.
Yeah. Ketamine. And I've also heard of, what is it? What is it like? What is like them?
Yeah, the mushrooms. They do not mushrooms. They're microdosing. MDMA.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't done the MDMA one. I've done the, I've done the Ketamine
one. I think that works really good. But, you know, there's different ways of doing the Ketamine.
There's oral and there's IV. There's a guy here in Tampa who does them.
Yeah. You said that you were one of the first people to try some sort of special therapy in
Tampa. Yeah. The Ketamine, doing the Ketamine. That was the Ketamine. Yeah. The way he does,
it's really great. So when you go on a psychedelic trip, right, and you do that,
you're one, you're out cold. Okay. You're out. But you can, like, you're gonna, I mean,
you're gonna, you're gonna fall asleep into this thing. You're not like cognitive. Like,
I couldn't hear a cat or carry a conversation with you when you're down with the Ketamine trip
like that. But it can either be good or it can be very bad. And so one of the things he does to
help ensure that you have, that it works out good for you because I've had the bad ones too.
Right. Well, I'll do the oral ones. Those never work out well. But the, what he does,
he puts a benzodiazepine in, a happy drug. You know, I always used to joke and say with
interrogations, that's how we should be hearing interrogations, pharmaceutical interrogations,
because there's no torture. There's no physical harm to him. You're just giving him a happy drug
and they'll just spill it in. Right. And then give him ecstasy. And then when the drug wears
off, they don't even realize that they get what they did. There's no harm or foul so to speak.
Yeah. They just want to run around and give everyone hugs. So yeah, that should be the
feature of interrogation personally. But so he gives you, he puts a little bit of that before
you do the Ketamine. And then when Ivy Ketamine, when he would do that, I'm out 15 to 25.
Minutes usually before I'll kind of wake up from it. Man, I'll tell you, that is the craziest
trip in the world. It's literally like being in the movie Inception in the Matrix at the same time.
Crazy. So when you're... What kind of a drug is it? You're falling into like a dream and then a
dream and a dream. Right. And I swear to God, it could be down for 15, 20 minutes. And I feel
like I've been gone for years sometimes, like whatever. It's just, it's insane.
What exactly does Ketamine do to you? How does it work? What is the mechanism of action?
Yeah. So basically a lot of this stuff kind of helps the brain to kind of rewire itself a
little bit too. When you have a trauma, like say for instance, for me, one of my big triggers is
smell because I worked in the camp, like 5,500 sweaty, dirty, smelly people. And that's a lot
of feces and food and just nasty crap, right? So a trigger for me was dirty diapers, believe it
or not. As soon as I would smell dirty diapers from one of our kids, it would just put me right back
in the camp. Or if I'm walking, like when I was working in Chicago, when I walk on the sidewalks,
I walk past an alleyway and I'd smell some of the trash from there. Just instantly,
you're back and you feel that trigger right there because that for me, that was my trigger.
It kind of helps to rewire some of that. They say scent is the strongest sense tied to memory.
Yeah. I believe it. For me, that was the big one for me. It was scent. It was almost always scent.
I'd smell certain scents and that for me would always kind of transport me there.
And there was this other song, I swear, this is a crazy song. So this Gwen Stefani song,
Sweet Escape, right? I would get on the bus to go from, we lived on Camp Striker and we worked
on Camp Cropper about a mile and a half apart. So we had a little bus that would take you over
back and forth to the back and forth there. So me and my group would get on the bus to go to our,
to the camp for our shift. Every day for I was like 12 or 13 straight freaking days,
we would hear Gwen Stefani's Sweet Escape. And I'm thinking to myself, wow, I'm listening to this
Sweet Escape song as I'm driving into a freaking camp with 5000 terrors.
So now whenever you hear that song, I think about that every time.
Yeah. Okay. So it's, go down. What is it? Is it a psychedelic? What the fuck is it?
Yeah, it's a psychedelic. It's a psychedelic. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And you can do it orally,
or you can do it. Stop right there. Go down. Right there. Right there. There.
A k-hole is when a high dose of ketamine leads to intense feelings of disassociation. This can
cause feelings of being disconnected or unable to control one's own body, also sometimes affecting
the ability to speak and move around easily. One way to think about a k-hole is a state between
intoxication and a coma. Interesting. Yes. Some people refer to a k-hole as an out of body or
near-death experience. Absolutely. So I never had that when I did the IB one with Dr. Kallava,
but I've done a couple more. It's oral. You put the tabs on your tongue led dissolve and get
in your body that way. I've had a couple of those with that because it's weird. A couple of times,
I really thought it was just dead because it was like normal life like this, and then suddenly it
just faded away and it wasn't real. You're like, holy crap, this isn't real. This is all fake.
What is real? What's going on? You just more from one thing to the next and you don't really know
what's going on. You just know that nothing's real and that life isn't real and that everything you've
imagined has been fake. It's scary in a way. Then the couple of times that happened to me
towards the end, I just found myself eventually in this black, empty space where there's no
sound, there's no heat, there's no cold, there's no nothing. Just complete and absolute emptiness.
It's black. Then I would wake up and that was very disassociating. It's kind of scary in a way
because it's literally like you died. You're like, oh my god, I'm dead.
And what is this doing to your brain that is rewiring it and getting rid of that hypervigilance?
There's probably better ways for neurologists to explain it than what I can. I just know that when
I have done it, I don't feel that nervous, crazy jitteriness like I do with the PTSD. It's like
reset for a period of time. Sometimes it's months, sometimes it's most of a year. It's a reset.
I don't know how, but it's just like it resets the mind, so to speak.
And do you do the nerve injection paired with the ketamine?
I've done that personally. I think that works best because it's not enough to just heal,
it's not enough to just block the nerve. You've got to fix the mind. It's not enough to fix the
mind. You've got to also solve the body part. That's where the two have worked really well
together. So is it by injecting the nerve, is that what eliminates the bad trips, like the anxiety?
What's going to negate the bad trips from the experience is the benzodiazepine.
The benzodiazepine, okay. And he would do that when he does the IV ketamine,
he'll do that first. And then right after that, he does the ketamine. It's instantaneous once
you hit your bloodstream, you're down. Okay. And so explain to me again how that the nerve
injection helps. Yeah. So what that does is it kind of like, I think Dakota might probably explain
it better now, is like walking through a city street where it's loud, noisy, and suddenly it's
a quiet forest. It just kind of slows things down, kind of just. And it's what it's doing is sort of
just inhibiting your fight or flight. Yes. Okay. I mean, it won't completely, it doesn't 100% stop
it, but what it does is really, really slow this sucker down, like really big. And you're like,
hey, that's not so bad. I don't need to be ducking in a ditch or reaching for a gun right now. It's
okay. Right. It gives you that moment you need to kind of come to that realization. And I think
for the longest time, we don't allow veterans and people to explore that and look at these other
homeopathic ways to treat people or his other ways of looking at that because
there's no money in it. Well, no, it's not that there's no money. There's lots, I think there's
plenty of money to be made in this stuff. The problem is, it comes back to FDA regulations. So
in the 70s, they kind of outlawed a lot of drugs. You know, you had, you had marijuana was illegal,
you had LSD and ketamine, different things like that became illegal drugs. And when they became
illegal, there was no further studies. And so you're missing like 40 years worth of scientific
study and research on these drugs to see how they actually do affect the mind and help people.
Right. Whereas other countries, they continue to evolve and develop that. And that's why
you see veterans and other groups going overseas to get treated for that kind of stuff,
because they do use it over there. Recently, I heard, I read something I didn't even, I was
completely ignorant to was that overseas and countries in Europe, they use testosterone
therapy for depression and anxiety and ADHD. And there's a whole slew of conditions that they can
treat with hormone therapy, like testosterone or estrogen for women. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
if you're short, if you're short, I mean, these things just kind of cause you problems.
That's unheard of in America. It's unheard of because it's cheap. Testosterone is
cheap. So unbelievably cheap. Yep. Yep. It's like, if there's a cure for cancer,
we'll never know about it because there's way more money involved in treating it than curing it.
But why don't you just try to cure it? That's the only way to say, okay, well,
the cure for this is half a million bucks. Did you ever, did you try LSD or mushrooms?
I've not tried the LSD. I've done the microdosing on the mushrooms.
That's a little hard to figure out your dosing levels. I haven't always spent enough time tinkering
with it, to be honest with you. I mean, you don't need a prescription that's legal to do that. I
just haven't really tinkered with it. I had, I tried it once, it was fine, tried another time,
just kind of left me like, I really wasn't able to focus and do what I can continue to work and
whatnot. And so I spent a lot of time tinkering with it, to be honest with you. Okay.
I'm too incredibly busy too. It's always like a couple, like a day to try something you tinkered
with it. Okay, well, this didn't work. Let me lose another day while I tested this and maybe it
would work, maybe it won't. But nothing worked as good as sitting down and writing?
Well, yeah, the writing is, I think, basically a long-term fix for me. That helps a lot because
at the end of the day, you got to find something that you can still support yourself and your
family with, right? You don't want to become dependent on some disability pension or
handouts, things like that. You got to be yourself a productive member of society.
And I think for me, writing has been a great therapy. It's a continued thing. I mean,
sure, I can still do the ketamine, the STB injections here and there, but
I still need to support myself. I still need daily things to kind of do. And for me,
I found writing is that niche. Here's an odd question. Do you think there are people
out there or have you met people out there that can go through countries in Iraq and Afghanistan
and kill people, slaughter people, do the things you did, interrogate people, and then just come
here like nothing happened and just completely flip the switch, not have to do any sort of
therapy or anything like that? I think there are definitely people like that.
What makes those people like that?
It's like, God, I people, man. Sometimes you just get some psychopaths out there
where people are just borderline. And other times,
other times you'll have people like that and they have no problems. And then all of a sudden,
they'll have a problem down the road, say a family member dies and suddenly it hits them,
or an incident happens that hits them and they just break down. Or the straw that broke the
camel's back, so to speak, was just one too many things and it just snaps. And that does happen.
I think it's kind of hard personally to imagine that people can go through and do all these things
and not be somewhat damaged or compromised a little bit. But a lot of it comes down to how well
you can cope with it and deal with it and process it. And how much you've been involved in all of
that, how long you've been kind of doing that kind of stuff. I think a lot of people who have been
involved in, we've got special forces guys in the military guys who've done five, six, seven
deployments, they've spent five or seven or eight years in war. I don't know that a lot of those
people survived 10, 20, 30 years into the future. I think you see a lot of people
suicides taking place somewhere along the path. Yes. One of my friends had committed suicide,
he was December of 2021. So he was one of my Oxford classmates. He's a smart guy.
He's got a graduate degree from Oxford. We're in the same class. He was an army ranger.
He did one deployment as a ranger and then he went to work for Blackwater and Triple
Canopy into the PMC world for seven or eight years. But he was involved in a handful of shootings
and incidents and things like that too. Everything seemed fine on the outside. He's got a nice wife,
a nice house, he's got three kids. Everything seems fine. He's got a good job, making his own
and a two, 300,000 year job. So it means making good money. All the right connections.
But deep down inside, he struggled with some of those things. And I didn't personally know
that he was starting with a lot of things. He never talked about a lot of those things.
And he wouldn't talk about a lot of those things. But then the year prior to,
a year or two years before his suicide, him and his wife got divorced and separated.
And then things kind of went down a little bit from there. And then as he was right before
Christmas or after Christmas, when he did that, but you wouldn't have thought that from him.
He just, by all outward appearances, he has it together.
And he's a smart guy. He's got a graduate degree from Oxford. He's not idiots. He's
aren't guys that are just a society. They're really smart intellectual people who understand
suicide or understand what's going on, but reach a point in their life and in that moment
where they just can't take it anymore and it's done. I mean, I've hit those points too,
but I've just never acted on it. But I feel and have seen myself get to those levels,
to those points and just, you just want to punch out. You're just kind of done.
You're tired of trying. You're tired of just going through this grind and not seeing anything
improve or anything get better. I guess what's the difference between me and some of these
other guys that I experienced that is, when I see that happening, I will usually talk with
someone about it or I will take one of my other medications that kind of helps me
counter that. What kind of medications? So they have, what's the other ones? These are
other benzodiazepine type drugs, kind of like a almost like happy drug. You take kind of like
Prozac, like Alpersosin or Lurazepan, things like that to just kind of help you move,
help improve your mood a little bit. They're going to take you from that. I want to just
blow my brains out moment to, okay, life's not that bad. You know what I mean? I can get through
this. And sometimes that's just what you need. It's just that.
Are those similar to those drugs you were taking overseas?
No, no, we wouldn't be allowed to take the benzodiazepine over there.
Yeah. And they want, I mean, you're not always going to be able to,
it does, it sometimes affects your ability to think straight and clear.
But again, this is what kills me about the VA is their pharmacology approach to everything.
And it doesn't let you work. You know, like, I mean, again, I got a graduate degree from Oxford.
I'd like to think I'm a fairly smart person. And the problem is, when I'm taking those medications
that the VA gives, I don't have that sharp mental acuity that I need. Right? Right? I just don't
have it. And that's hard to fight through. And I either take the drugs. And so then I'm a nice,
sociable person to be around. I'm not an asshole. And my wife can bear, she can be around me and
co-workers like being around you. But then I'm not, I'm not cognitively as sharp as I have to be
for those, you know, senior positions at a corporation. Or I don't take it. And I'm
sharp as a tack. I mean, I'm like really, you know, mercenary mindset at the job. I'm sharp
a note. I'm doing very, very proficient and good at what I'm doing. But I'm not the nicest person
to be around. And that kind of can lead to bad experiences that hit your job. Eventually,
you're going to get fired, right? Right. When you act like that. Or do certain things. You just,
society doesn't tell you, they don't take that. So when you started writing all these books,
incredible collection of books you were in, what sort of approach did you take? Did you
just start kind of writing down your own experiences, thoughts you had, memories you had?
So the first time, the first book I wrote was Interview with the Terrorist. That was my experiences
working as a terrorist. For me, that was taking my diary, more or less. I kept my journal,
because I needed to have some way to get all this crap out of my head at the end of my job,
at the end of work, right? I didn't journal every day when I was in Iraq, but just sometimes,
I just had to do something to just get it out of my head. And I started just expanding on,
just sharing what was going on. Because the problem is nobody knows what we did. They don't
think of you as these evil monsters. I remember coming back from my year I was gone, and being
at church, and someone at church there, I said, you were going to Iraq for a year. Wow, that's
great. What did you do over there? And you tell them, I tell them I was an interrogator.
Like the expression on people's faces says it all. They have this like, wow,
this person is like a monster. I don't want to talk with these people, move away.
Really?
You know, that's because they don't know what we do. And the image at that time, I said it was
2007. The image everyone has of interrogators is abgrap, torturing people, the waterboarding,
all these other horrible things. That's not what we did, but that's what they thought we did.
And so for me, I wanted to kind of explain that that's not what we did. It was a whole different
thing. And our mission was a really important one, because how else are you going to find,
we talk with the enemy. That's our job to talk directly to the enemy every day,
and find information to try and end this conflict. And I wanted to kind of humanize that. And from
there, I said, all right, well, if I'm going to continue writing, I got to write about something.
So obviously, a book is a great way to do it, because it's a very long story. You can just
create out of your head, just fiction and make it up. But you got to create something people
want to read. So I looked at it and said, well, what do I want to read? And what is not being
produced? And for me, I liked to, to read books like Tom Clancy's Red Storm Rising, that was one
of my favorite books to read. The problem is, there's not a lot of books like that, where you
talk about a battalion or a brigade and division level combat and fights. It's just not a style
of writing that a lot of people pursue. They always like to pursue these small unit things.
Army Rangers, the Navy Seal, or Green Brains, almost always some rogue this or that. It's just
small stuff like that. There's nothing wrong with that. That's a dirty thing. Vince Flynn did
really well with his mid-trap characters in creating that and doing that. But I liked the
Tom Clancy style, where you have this Red Storm Rising, divisions on divisions with the Soviets
going across and NATO having this big old fight like that. So I started creating those kinds of
books and writing and doing that. And my last government job, I worked over...
Sort of like fictionalized.
Yeah. Yeah. So I worked at US European Command for almost three and a half years.
And that's in Stuttgart, Germany. So I worked in the intelligence group. I worked as an
Identity Intelligence Operations Manager, so more or less like finding people, you know,
hunting, tracking, finding foreign extremists that are coming in and out of our AOR, basically.
But that kind of job, you know, on the intel staff, you're also exposed to our plans, what we're
developing to counter, you know, say, Russians invaded across and they're going to attack NATO
and invade across. How would we respond to that? We have war plans for everything.
Everything I understand, we got war plans or something. And you kind of see a lot of those
things. So it's like, well, all right, I've been around that. Why don't I write a book on
Russia invading, you know, in this case, we did Ukraine or whatever countries,
and just start creating these different series and creating books about big conflicts that nobody's
writing or doing that kind of style like Clancy used to do. And so, well, let's try to do that
ourselves. And so we did. And, you know, it's like anything, you get better with more practice. So
my early, early books and stuff were pretty good. I think our stuff now obviously better,
but that's because I've written 30 more books since then. So you're going to get better.
Yes.
And you start to learn how to craft better characters and how to create more realistic
scenarios. And that's one of the, that's the trick with writing is how do I create a character
that's so real that it triggers you like you read this, you go, this is this person's like,
you know, total, you know, anti American, whatever, if they're Russian POV, they need
to be a Russian POV. They got to think like a Russian, right? Otherwise, you're just creating
a karma character. If you have a political figure, well, they need to act like the political figure
you're trying to portray them to me. You need to create realistic characters. And so when you have
that, and then you have these scenarios that are very realistic to what could actually happen in
an unfold, you start to get a really good book. And then it's just about, you know,
continue to walk through the scenario and say, okay, well, what new technology is going to get
incorporated? Let's start writing that stuff in. How would this scenario play out? Do the whole
what if? How much research do you have to do? Research you have to do like to make this stuff
real? Like for example, to find a Russian, a Russian's point of view or a politician's point of
Listen to interviews. Great way to do it. So if you want to, you want to know about the Russian
POV, their perspective, listen to Sergey Lavrov talk. Like listen to him. Who is who is that?
So he's a Russian foreign minister. So you listen to him talk at different conferences, events,
UN anywhere. Okay, so you spend some time listening to how he talks, how he phrases things, how he
portrays XYZ happening. Listen to how President Putin portrays things, how other elected people
in their government and military portray things. That's going to give you a good insight into
that mindset, that thinking. You can watch Russian, there's Russian TV shows and programs you can
watch and kind of see and get some of that insight too. And that helps you better gauge
how they respond and act. So when you write the scenario, you write the book.
Do you understand Russian? No, I don't. I have subtitles and things like that.
But I also have a really big reader network at this point too. And so I can
throw out different questions and I have different people that I can ping for and get answers from.
Wow. And help a lot too.
So you have to go through, you have to understand so many different types of people's perspectives
to write these fictional stories and to make this. If you want to do a good, yes.
If you want to do a good, right, but you want to make it as realistic as possible.
The technology is actually much harder to get than the people's perspectives and things like
that. The technology can be quite challenging. What do you mean when you say technology? What
technology? Okay, so if you're following first armor brigade combat team out of the
30 infantry division, so you know what their equipment is. So first you need to know what
the equipment is, kind of rounds for the ranges, effectiveness, different things like that.
So you have that down and you start getting that for all of the units in the U.S. that you're going
to use and operate, whether it's Army, Air Force, Navy Marines, those four branches, right? A lot
of equipment. Well, now who are you fighting? So now you need to look at that layer of equipment
too. Now are you incorporating the allies? Well, what do they use? And do the other people have
any allies and all this? So before you know it, you've got quite a lot of different types of
equipment you're trying to incorporate and use and figure out, well, can this work? Does it work?
What is the range of these air to air missiles that, you know, this Chinese aircraft would
use versus what we would use? So because you can't have, if you're going to write different
engagements, you need to make sure you're writing them with the weapons that it can actually do
that kind of engagement. Right. Otherwise you're going to have inconsistency problems. And that's
just the part of the detail of getting this technology right. Has it ever come across to
you when you were writing a story or even after you've written a story or a series of stories
that, holy shit, my stories are coming true. Well, yeah, there's one here, man. Battlefield
Ukraine. We wrote that back in 2017 and it's been unfolding an unmitigated nightmare unfolding
ever since. How many books are in that series? A total of six books in that series. And what
got you started on that series? What made you want to start that? Sure. So I needed to come up with
a new series. And I said, all right, well, let's look at World War Three. What's going to be the
next biggest war? How would this shake out? Okay. I pretty much looked and said, well, it's going
to be Korea, Taiwan, Ukraine, Korea and Taiwan. It's going to be one of those three. Okay. Or
Taiwan. Yeah. Okay. One of those three. And I said, all right, well, what if we had this secret
pact between... Wait, sorry. What made you think that? Based on my experiences working at US
European Command, just the stuff I was around and seeing how everything was playing out and
knowing what was going on behind the scenes. I mean, when I saw how things were unfolding
in Ukraine, when I was there before Maidan, and then just seeing how things unfolded in Iraq
and in Libya and in the whole Arab Spring and our reactions to everything, it kind of like,
I don't want to say open dries up. You just start seeing our actions from a different perspective.
You know, because normal everyday people see the actions taken one way or another. But
when you've kind of worked in those secret squirrel realms, you kind of get a better
perspective of what's really going on. Why are we doing X, Y or Z? Why did we suddenly turn on
Qaddafi? I mean, there was no reason to turn on Qaddafi and look what we have in place of it now.
Was this really a good decision? It's still a failed state. Right. Was this really what we
wanted? Bad choice right there. And it also creates another problem for us too, because Qaddafi gave
up his WMD program and stuff he had in exchange for normalized relations with the United States
and in Europe. So he did that willingly without having to be invaded. And then what was our response?
Less than a decade later, we toppled regime on him. So, John Bolton will say, well,
we want to use the Libya model, really? Okay, so we want you to give up your weapons of
mass destruction, then we're just going to destabilize your regime and replace you once you've
done this. What decade is going to go along with that? What nation would go along with this?
It's just poor phrasing. And at the end of the day, maybe behind the curtain,
Pax Americana is what we really want to pursue. That's fine. Don't say that out loud and tell
people that. And then make sure your economy and your country is positioned to support that.
We always say, might doesn't make right when we talk about Russia and China interacting with
their neighbors. That rule applies to them. It does not apply to us. Might always makes right
when it comes to the United States. We're going to do what we want to do. If we want the resource
or you're threatening access to our resource or our allies, we're going to fix the problem.
So when you came up with this idea to write this book, I mean, were you looking at NATO and seeing
what was going on between NATO and Russia? Yeah. Just looked at that and said, all right, well,
I see NATO is incredibly weak. It just doesn't have the capability to deploy forces
in a reasonable amount of time. We're now discovering. NATO's weak in that way?
They can't rapidly deploy anything. They don't have forces that are operationally ready to react.
So in the US, we have the 82nd Airborne, you can have most of the division deployed really quickly.
They don't have quick reaction forces like that. A lot of their stuff relies on the US being able
to move them and get them to point A to point B. They don't have large stockpiles of unitions to
support a sustained combat. The British Ministry of Defense was recently saying that if they
got to fight right now with Russia, they have weeks worth of munitions, and that's it. They're
out. And a lot of those supplies probably won't even last weeks now because they've given so much
of it to Ukraine. Yeah, the Secretary of General for NATO was saying that almost begging countries
to start mass producing munitions because Ukraine is expending multiple times what we can generate
in just really rapidly. The US produces just under 100,000 or 155 millimeter artillery shells
a year. It's like 86,000 a year. So the Defense Department is in the process of scaling it up
by five times that number. Problem is, you have Ukraine burning through like three to seven thousand
rounds a day. So they're cooking through our entire year's production in about 14 to 21 days.
A whole year production is being blown in 21 days. So the way that's being supplied and supported
right now to continue what they're doing is eating out of our war stocks. So if we started five to
six million rounds in the inventory, well, we've already burned a million in the first nine months
of the war, and we've now located another million more. So we're already dipping really bad into
our own stocks. So bad now that we are pulling our reserve inventories we're keeping in South
Korea in case that war was kicked off, we're pulling our munitions out of our stockpile out of
there. And now we're pulling our stockpile out of Israel to send to Ukraine. Well, the problem is now
should things kick off in those other regions, we don't have those inventories there anymore
to supply our forces and keep things going. That's a big problem. And the Pentagon is
scaling up the production war production right now. But you're looking at like 12 to 18 months or
more, just to get up, you know, up from, you know, 86,000 a year upwards to what almost half a million.
But half a million isn't even enough. That's enough for, that's only enough for maybe four or
five months worth of fighting. What about the rest of it? So when you started writing Battlefield
Ukraine, you said you chose those countries and what was the premise? What was the premise of
Battlefield Ukraine? Yeah, so the premise was basically is that the Russians and the Chinese
have decided, you know, this is the time to dethrone the West to knock America off its pedestal
and take charge. And by collaborating and working together, they will move to do that. So the first
stage was moving forward in Ukraine, it's getting the Russian government to essentially
do what they did, annex and recognize these regions and then say, of Ukraine, of Ukraine,
say and basically tell them, all right, these are now recognized. We're going to, we request that
NATO move its forces out of Eastern Ukraine. And if they're not moved out of Eastern Ukraine on this
set time, then, you know, we're implementing a no fly zone and we will forcibly evict them.
And the whole book, the war starts when we just kind of laugh it off, like whatever,
as much Russian snack it is. And we hit that timeline and we hit the no fly zone goes into a
fact and like whatever. So we have some F16s fly right through the no fly zone and they get shot
down. And then the Russians are like, okay, it's game on. And then they just, they just unload
and they go on it. And the first part of the book is just really reacting to it. It's just
trading space for time, you know, to, to basically buy time for the rest of NATO to react.
US forces to get moved over to Europe, so you can get them into place and try to stop them at
the Nipro basically. And so the fight kind of evolves right there. And that's where it starts,
but that's not where it ends. So that one kicks off there. If China really wants to grab Taiwan
in Southeast Asia, it needs another conflict. So that's when you get the North Koreans to kick up.
And now you get that war to, to really happen. Well, now the US has got to respond there in
Korea. And we're responding with NATO. Now we're really bogged down. Now you're free to, for China
to go in and grab Taiwan and anything else they want. Because there's nothing that we have that
can stop them. And so the book really follows this whole, the first couple of books, the first
three books in the series is really just a rolling crescendo of just body blows against the West
and just having to react. And then the second half of the series is we finally reacted. We've
now caught our breath. We're now rallying the West to unite together to combat and go and push back.
And so that's the second half of the series is the pushback and eventually defeated them
because they just overstretched. Wow. But the first part of the year, it's like,
there's going to be fights. You're going to lose a lot of land in the first part of the year. It's
just like World War II. The first year was really bad. The second year was a little worse and the
third year was much better. Right. Right. And when you started to see what's going on right now,
when you started in whatever February of last year, when this whole thing kicked off, what were
you thinking? How, how, I mean, obviously it was a little bit different because it was,
it was kind of like we sort of instigated that. We started just building up tons of weapons,
putting a ton of money on the border there of Russia. Well, we didn't have a clear mission
and purpose. Like what, what was, what was the mission? What's the purpose? And if this happens,
what are we going to do? So Joe Biden was telling them, disclosing all the information of saying,
hey, if, you know, we know you're going to attack, if you attack, we're going to do these sanctions.
And then, you know, his, his phrase when he said, well, it depends how much they, how, how much
land they take or what they do. Like, no, it should never have been how much. If you really
wanted to deter them, obviously the sanctions didn't work because sanctions haven't worked
since 2014 when you've been doing them. So if you really wanted to deter them, you should have
just told them, say, look, you're not going to invade Ukraine. There's this memorandum that
said in the Ukrainians gave up their nuclear weapons that the United States and you would protect
their territorial integrity. My predecessors did not honor that. I will. So if you invaded Ukraine,
then we are going to war with you and we are going to send you as forces in there and we are going
to engage you. Well, that would have been the shot across the bow to let the Russians know,
okay, this is what's going to happen if we, if we cross the border and engage. Now that might
have worked, but if it didn't work, then you've got to be willing to back up the threats. Right.
And that's the problem is we don't want to make a threat because we don't want to, we don't actually
have to follow through on it. It's what happened with Syria. You know, in Obama issue, the red line
in Syria and then famously didn't follow through. Right. Well, that told the Russians and it told
everyone else, hey, they're not going to follow through on this. You know, and then again, that
didn't happen. And you know, so in, in the lead up to Afghanistan, when that was all falling apart,
the Taliban had to abide by a series of agreements in order for US forces to leave.
Otherwise, we were going to be under 10 years. We would have been there another 10 years if
Trump was in there, probably would have stayed a lot longer, or we'd have bombed the hell out of
them. But when we walked back, those, you know, agreements that we were supposed to hold them
to and just kind of walked away, they ran over the whole, they ran over the whole system.
And when that happened, everyone looked at that in Europe and said, wow, okay, America literally
just pulled up stakes in 10 days was gone. It's gone. It's like, wow, 19 freaking years. We've
been at 65 million, 65 billion dollars worth of weapons and equipment there. I imagine we had
that right now for Ukraine. What difference that would make. But we abandoned that. And
that said, again, we've sent multiple messages through multiple generations that we're just
not going to honor these red lines. We're not going to defend these things. And so Putin saw
that and said, well, whatever, they're not going to defend us. They're not going to attack us. They're
not going to stop. And he rolled across. And what have we been doing since then? We've been doing
piecemeal supports. You know, we're giving the Ukrainians weapons, but not enough to win, not
have to lose. It's just a stalemate. And they've said the quiet part out loud. Mitch McConnell
and Lindsey Graham and a bunch of the other people have also said the quiet part out loud.
We're not in this to win and help the Ukrainians win. We are in this to believe the Russians dry
and just believe their military dry. That's what we're doing. That's the strategy. That's what
you know, what the Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer was saying is, you know, we're spending
a fraction of our GDP on bleeding the Russians so we're just going to keep doing it. But and from
a, you know, a Pax Americana strategic, you know, perspective, that makes a whole lot of sense.
You know, I listened to Dan Crenshaw talk about that. And he's like, well, look at what we're
spending and what we're getting. It's like, I get that from that perspective. But you're also
talking about the human beings. Okay. You're using the Ukrainians as a proxy meat shield to
implement your desired outcome on Russia. Well, what about them? I mean, don't they have a say in
this? I mean, you're, you're pushing these guys to continue to fight and in turn, your politicians
are going to go along with it. I mean, they stand to make financially a fortune. I mean,
you can't divorce the fact that Ukraine is the most corrupt country in Europe.
It's because the Russians invade doesn't mean that went away. Right. They did not go away.
There's hardly a number of people who have already been fired because of that. And like the current
Defense Secretary, he's still there, but he's like at the epicenter of a lot of the corruption where,
you know, hey, I need to buy these water bottles for my soldiers. So I'm going to buy them from you
for $10 a bottle, right? And then, you know, there's obviously the kickbacks across the board for
everyone. Right. I mean, that's just running rampant across that country. And you see recently
the Saudi Arabia put like $400, $500 million into Ukraine. That just happened. The Saudi
Arabian diplomat was just there meeting with Zelensky. And now that has an effect on the
rest of the world because China's already basically stated their stance with Russia because they're
already doing business with them with oil and whatsoever. And now Saudi Arabia has lined with
the U.S. But I think China depends on Saudi Arabia. Saudi is just playing both sides, man.
They're just trying to play both sides. I saw this video. I got to pull up this video. I got to
send this video to you, Austin, and you got to play this. This thing is the way this guy on,
I think this was Instagram. Yeah. Oh, yeah. There you go. There's the... Now it's a humanitarian.
Okay. Yeah. So the difference between humanitarian and military in reconstruction
stuff is that... Oh, it's humanitarian aid. Yeah. Yeah. Because they're not going to give
weapons. They're getting weapons for us. And a lot of people don't realize they're talking about
Ukraine getting these Patriot missiles, right? Patriot missiles cost a lot of money too,
like $3 million bucks a pop. Right. It's not exactly a good return on investment to be using
a $3 million missile against some of these drones that are a fraction of that price.
But the other thing is Saudi Arabia has these missiles too. So Saudi has spent the last about
three or four years dealing with Houthi rebels being backed by Iran who are using drones too
to hit the Saudis. Right. And Yemen? Yeah. So there's a lot of these drones from Yemen across
Saudi Arabia and then hitting their refineries in oil fields with these drones. Well, they're using
Patriots to counter a lot of this stuff too. So we have a problem where a lot of people use Patriots
and that's great. But we don't have the industrial capability in place to mass produce the missiles
to keep those things supplied and going. Right. That's the problem. And so we have a lot of users
of it. Well, they're also using it right now. Saudi is using Patriot missiles quite frequently.
And now you're going to have Ukraine who's going to use Patriot missiles at an astronomical rate,
but we're not going to be able to keep up with that. Right. It's just the same problem with
artillery rounds, anti-tank missiles, javelins and N-laws and stingers. We don't have the industrial
capability to keep waging that kind of a fight. And that's one thing we do write about in the books
a lot is we really kind of reinforce some of that. We talk about that. We integrate that into the
struggle. There's a couple of spots you talk about in the Minerod auction series. To get the video?
In this series and then in the other one where the president's getting a brief and one of the
generals is telling the president, like, sir, you don't understand the gravity situation.
That artillery round is being, or the tank round is because it's being made in this factory here,
is then being loaded onto a plane and flown to this airport here, put on a truck and driven
200 miles towards the front and being shot out the tube of a tank four days later.
That's how grave the situation is. It's going from a factory to being shot out the tube in a week.
That's not a good system. That's not a lot of inventory. It's called just-in-time shooting,
and that's great for building manufacturing. That's not good for war.
I try to build that into the different series and things you write because that's realistic.
That's what they're facing right now where you have these massive shortages of ammo. You run
out of bullets. It's not like Hollywood where you just have an endless supply of bullets to keep
shooting. You can only carry so much ammo on you, and when you run out, you've got to have more.
Someone's got to bring it and get it over there. That means someone's got to be able to drive that
ammo down some road that's hopefully not going to have shot up and hit with drones to get these
there. When you have 5,000, 6,000 guys in a city like in Bakmut that are chewing through ammo,
you need a lot of supply runs. Meanwhile, you've got drones hitting them, artillery hitting them.
It's kind of a mess, and then the ammo is going to get blown up.
You're familiar with the War Dogs movie? The two guys out of Miami who basically got that
$200 million arms deal to supply ... I haven't seen it, but I know which one you're talking about.
Yeah. Supply the Afghan army with munitions, and they basically got it. They sourced it all from
Albania, a factory that ended up all being Chinese ammunition, so they repackaged it. There was some
law that was put in place through Obama where they couldn't buy any sort of ... There was an embargo
on Chinese munitions, but they just repackaged it and got rid of all the Chinese markings and they
sold it. All the ammunition was great, by the way. They worked perfectly. Even the
army guys that basically were there using it and stuff like that, they basically said there was
nothing wrong with it. There was no misfires, nothing at all. The main guy ... Anyways, I had
that guy in the podcast. Fascinating story. This is the video that I was just talking about.
Play that, Austin.
This is Prince Faisal bin Faram, one of the top Saudi diplomats meeting Zelensky in Ukraine
yesterday right after announcing $400 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine. The reason that
this is such a big deal isn't the size of it. After all, Ukraine has gotten almost $100
million in total aid since the invasion. The reason it's such a big deal is because it has
put China in a very tricky position. You see, up until now, Saudi Arabia has been mostly neutral
so far regarding its stance on the invasion, but with this new $400 million package, it's becoming
clear that they're siding with the West. This is very concerning for China, who just last week
were debating sending suicide drones to Russia as part of an arms deal. Now China is faced with
two options and neither are good. Option one, China sends weapons to Russia, but alienate themselves
from Saudi Arabia, a country essential to their energy and economic goals. China would also likely
be facing even more economic sanctions from Western countries and become further isolated,
hurting Chinese companies. Or option two, they don't send weapons to Russia and end up burning the
bridge with one of their oldest allies, which would put even more pressure on Russia and push
Putin closer to the talking table. I'll be keeping a close eye on China to see what they do in the
coming weeks, so follow for updates and thanks for watching. This guy makes great videos. What's
the name of his channel? Or his page? Quiver or something? It's too small. I can't read it.
Make sure we shot this guy out. Quiver quantitative on Instagram.
It's interesting. I see that. I think it's slightly different taking what he's doing with that. So
there's an incentive to keep this war going. So we thought that we could bleed the Russians dry
and kind of implode their economy and collapse them over the course of this first year.
That was what we really thought, but it didn't happen. And now we're figuring out that it's
actually us who are starting to have a problem because they didn't implode like we thought Russia
would. So from the Chinese perspective, if they can keep the war going, the longer they keep the
war going, the weaker we become because we're just going to expend more and more munitions
that we can't readily replace. And as long as we're doing that, we won't have those munitions
available. This is a credible threat. Should they make a move on Taiwan at some point?
Right. I think one of your other guests a while back had said something about how
his idea, his belief was that the Chinese, if they're going to make a move on Taiwan,
they probably would look to do it towards really close to the run to the 2024 election cycle.
Yeah, it was Andrew Bustamonte who said that. Yeah, I was listening to him last night on that.
Probably right. But what's really going to, when you'll really see the indication when they're
kind of ready to make that move is when a series of these large landing helicopter assault ships
are done. So we have these. That we are making? No, no, the Chinese are building these things.
Correct. So they've been working very few usually on a building, kind of like a blue water Navy,
so they can go beyond their coastal areas. Okay. But we have these, you can look up like the USS
America or the USS Wasp. These are large helicopter assault ships that US Marines use for moving,
whether it's helicopters or landing assault vehicles, things like that. It's to take a force and move
them to do an amphibious invasion. That's really what the Chinese have lacked for a while. So they
have a new type of warship that they've been building for quite some time. They're building a
whole string of them. I want to say I have three or four of these landing helicopter assault ships
done. And they have, I think it's five or six more under construction right now. And then there's a
couple other versions of it that are larger as well, that they're building. When those ships
are done, that's when you're going to, that's when I think you're going to start to see some
serious movement, because that's kind of what they need to go over to get there. Because otherwise,
they have a whole lot of smaller boats that can move across and I'm not saying they couldn't do it.
Probably the way they're going to invade is have a lot of people fly in normally,
like civilians into China. First, a lot of special forces will go in,
clandestinely like that. They'll wait until the appointed time, then they'll coalesce together,
pick up their weapon caches, and go to execute their operations. Meanwhile, I wouldn't be surprised
if you end up with a handful of these roll on roll off car carriers. And other cargo ships already
kind of have been maneuvered into port, where they'll just roll vehicles right off into the
instantly snagged the ports. Then you'll have a lot of helicopters that'll come across the
straits right on the water to land and try to grab and secure certain cultural areas
before you'll actually have an invasion force hit. But what would really help cinch that and make
that a lot more likely to succeed is if you had more of those helicopter salt ships completed.
And you get a few more of those done, and then there's a few other vessels they need,
they'll be able to kind of ring Taiwan pretty tight. And so, there was an Air Force general
recently was talking, he believed that this would probably kick off sometimes more like 2025.
There's others that believe it's like 2027. I think it's probably going to be
probably between the September, October of 2024, and probably before the end of 2025-ish.
If I was guessing a window, that's what I would say.
That's going to happen. Yeah.
And what are we going to do? What is our reaction going to be?
Depends. I mean, Nancy Pelosi's already there.
Yeah, it depends. A lot of it depends when. Is it happens under Biden or does it happen in
either his second term or someone else's term? That's going to be interesting to see.
And it also depends on how things play out in Ukraine between now and that time.
Because if we're still getting blood dry, we're not going to be able to intervene
in too much. We can say we are, but unless we want to go toe-to-toe with the Chinese
and use our Navy, really the best weapon we would have would be our subs and our Navy and
trying to close the straits and keep them from supplying the Chinese. But there's so many of
the weapon systems that are needed to do that, that are not, that the Taiwanese have bought them,
they're not being given to them yet because we are either diverting weapons that are completed,
supposed to go to Taiwan, being diverted to Ukraine, or they're getting put to the back of
the queue to be built because we're needing to build stuff for Ukraine. And all they're doing
is weakening them. You know, like they always talk about giving Ukraine F-16s, F-16 Vipers,
the latest model that they have, they're really great aircraft. But these were bought and slated
for Taiwan. And there was a lot of effort to try and actually take the Taiwanese F-16s and
give them to Ukraine. It's like, hey, we, the way you're going to deter Taiwan from getting
invaded is to make Taiwan a porcupine, a really big, mean, savage porcupine. And if you can make
it so costly that they're not, that, you know, for them to invade, they won't. But you can only do
that if you're willing to give them the anti-ship missiles they need, the aircraft they need,
the air defense they need, the artillery systems like the M-1 and I and Paladins, the self-propellatory
guns that I used to work on when I was in the army side, they need those. And those are being
diverted to Ukraine. And so much of the munitions stockpiles are going there, we're not placing
them in Taiwan like we need to be. And so it comes back to priorities. And if this is what we want
to do as a country, right or wrong, I mean, I'm not an elected person, that's not my choice.
But if the choice is to intervene and do all this, then we need to scale our industry to meet the
requirements. And that's not happening. We need to go to General Motors and Ford and Tesla and say,
hey, that's great, all these cool cars. But we need you to shut down half your line and convert to
manufacturing artillery shells, missiles, armored vehicles and equipment. Because we need these
things. You got to start scaling up. And we're not retooling the economy to be a wartime economy,
to support and sustain that. And there is the rest of our allies. I mean, this is my biggest
gripe with what's happening in Europe is you don't see NATO stepping up to the plates to give,
the British are great for this, love my British friends. But they're great for giving these wonderful,
tough sounding speeches and then going to have afternoon tea afterwards and feeling they did
something. Well, where's the action to follow through on that? Where is the scaling up of your
industry to meet the demand for this conflict? I mean, the British actually had to shrink the
size of their army because they couldn't meet the recruitment goal. That's not a good situation.
You're a year into this war in Ukraine and you're shrinking your army when you should actually be
like doubling it. You should be scaling up production of munitions and aircraft and weapons,
but you're not doing any of that. And you're not even spending more money on defense.
In Germany, all the Canadian countries are doing this. And this is the problem. It's like,
we're a year into this war in Ukraine, and you guys haven't even transitioned to a wartime economy.
Well, guess who did transition to a wartime economy? The Russians a year ago, and they have
factories running mass producing this stuff 24-7. And they're just continuing to scale and get more
and more of their production going that way. And we don't really have a good read on how effective
our sanctions are and things going on inside there either.
My friend, Jack Murphy, was on here a couple of weeks ago. He did a report basically on
the CIA conducting sabotage inside of Russia, not inside of Ukraine, but all inside of Russia.
Going after those specific factories.
Going after factories. There's been all these fires, all these railroad, these trains getting
derailed, all kinds of crazy things going wrong. Russia's been sort of like brushing them off
because they don't want to acknowledge that it's some sort of foreign adversary doing it because
they don't want to lose morale for their people and their troops. But Jack confirmed through a
number of vetted CIA sources that it is a NATO country working through the CIA, working through
a NATO country to do this stuff. So they have some sort of plausible deniability, which is wild,
wild story.
That's what we do though. That's why our country is very good at doing that kind of stuff.
We're very good at waiting proxy wars.
Yes.
The concern I had with all the proxy wars is when we were in Iraq, so we had Iran, the IRGC,
was supplying weapons to fight us. And a lot of our guys got killed with those
explicitly foreign penetrators, the EFPs. And that was when they were interfering.
During that war, we did not have Russia or China actively interfering in that war against us.
We didn't have Russia providing al-Qaeda to the tune of $100 billion of weapons and munitions
in intelligence, support, and all that kind of stuff. We just didn't. And my concern is when
you're waging a proxy war, particularly against another superpower and everyone, I mean, they
know we're doing this, what's going to happen in the next time we go to war? So say there's another
conflict or war in Africa or in Middle East or somewhere else, right? And the U.S. is involved
in that conflict. Well, let's just say that Russia is not going to take their own revenge on us
for that. Because when we were in Vietnam, the Russians messed with us for years in that war
and cost us a lot of people and supplying more Vietnamese weapons and aircraft equipment,
technical expertise, and we lost a lot of Americans from that. And when Russia went into
Afghanistan, we returned the favor and hit them hard like that. And that's kind of stopped.
But now we have restarted that with that proxy type actions in Ukraine. So you got to expect
that they're going to retaliate and hit us with the same kind of thing in another future conflict.
Or we say, oh, well, just do sanctions. Things just didn't stop them from invading Ukraine.
That didn't work. So the only thing that's going to stop them is military force. And we got to
step back at some point and just say, this is a nice, beautiful planet. We all don't need to
like destroy each other and blow each other up over some of these conflicts. There's easy way
for us to negotiate and figure out how we can solve this without trying to kill each other.
Well, it's the people. You got to want to actually solve it though.
There's such a gap in humanity between the people that are doing the fighting and the
psychopaths that are running the country, the diplomats and the people that make all these
decisions and that are making all this money and trying to advance their political careers
by doing X, Y and Z. And Neo-Conservatives like Victoria Nuland and her husband and those people.
Nuland. So her husband runs the Institute for the Study Award, you know, that John Joaquin is
like one of the chairman on and always talking about on Fox News and they always cite the Institute
for the Study Award. Well, her husband is one of the founders of this thing. And they're kind of
the architects for this whole, for the surge in Iraq and just the perpetuation of the whole
invasion there in doing that. And it's frustrating because it's the same cluster of people who are
pushing and doing all these things. And it's like your policy was tested and failed. So let's not
continue to use the same failed policies. Let's try something different. Let's try a different
approach, right? It's like when I'm interrogating a really tough individual, I can beat my head
against the wall trying the same approach. Or I can say, you know what, this isn't working. Let's
try something different. We can still meet our objective, but just try a different approach.
You know, with Russia, why, we didn't have to pursue this complete adversarial relationship
with Russia. You know, we keep saying, well, Russia is invading all these foreign, you know,
invading their neighbors and you know, all this stuff like that. The borders of NATO have not,
Russia didn't expand its border with NATO. NATO expanded its border forward.
Right. Correct. I mean, that's happened.
Yes. But it's all defensive, right? It's all...
That's what they keep saying. It's all defensive. Well, here's my question. Why can't Russia be
part of NATO? Why not? That's a good question. Why not?
Why not? Because if, I mean, and people say, well, they'll roast me for this. I know...
Well, NATO is designed to defend Russia, right? By definition, that's what NATO is.
Okay. So when we say, well, why can't Russia be part of NATO? Well, you have Greece and Turkey.
Those two nations have hated each other for thousands, thousands of years. They had fought
just countless wars against each other. They were also both put into NATO, jammed in there
together and they can't fight anymore. They can't fight. You know, they're not able to fight each
other in open conflict because they are part of NATO. They're members now. They have to...
They have a... There's a process for them to have dialogue and disputes and handle these problems
and go through things like that. And so when we have this issue with Russia,
NATO is around to deal with Russia. And Russia has always had... Russia has become an aggressive
and adversarial against the U.S. since 2000, I think it was 2008 when they first
intervened in Georgia. And it's been aggressive like that ever since. But it was aggressive
like that because that was leading up to that point. We were continuing to encroach in advance
on their border. And they said, well, if you're going to advance on our border, we need a buffer.
If we're not going to be part of this community, we're going to be the bookie man.
And you're going to continue to advance forward. We need a buffer.
When they invaded Georgia. Yeah.
Do you remember who wasn't... I'm going to fuck this up, but wasn't the leader of Georgia somebody
that we were paying like some incredible salary? I don't remember. I mean, I was in Iraq at the
time when that happened. It was kind of funny because the FOB I was working at had a whole
ton of Georgians stationed at that FOB because they were in Iraq with us, like 3,000 I think.
And when the war happened, all 3,000 of the Georgians within like a day were flown in and
brought into Baghdad. And we put them all on C-130s and C-17s and flew right back to Georgia.
And so they were in Iraq. And then a few days later, they were back in their own country,
off to fight the Russians. And we'd provide intelligence and tell them, say, hey,
those anti-aircraft guns you have, why don't you move those to this valley over here and move
this one to here and just wait and see what happens. And the next thing you know, Russian planes
are flying through and getting zapped. We told them where to go because they didn't have that
capability, but they also got steamrolled. The Russians just steamrolled right through them
and they had to make a, they got to cease fire and stuff. Believe in the outskirts of Tbilisi at
that point. I don't know if I'm remembering this right. Georgia was a governor of some sort of
state in like southern Ukraine. But they found out this guy actually posted on his Facebook page,
his salary or what he was paid. And America was paying him like $250,000 a year.
And he basically, he was being paid more than the governor of Massachusetts.
It's crazy. What the fuck? You know, no wonder there's such a bad taste in the Russian's mouth
when we are so balls deep in these places that are surrounding Russia.
Yeah. I look at it this way. The existential threat to the United States for like the next
50 years is not Russia. It is actually China. And that's where the focus needs to be is on
the Chinese section. It's focusing there. So why couldn't there have been a way for us to find a
way to work with Russia, to bring them into our sphere of influence, our fold, instead of having
them as an adversary, bring them in with us and get Russia to align with us against China.
Because we can't deal with China. We can't be friends with a dictator like Putin.
But we're friends with other dictators. And that's what kills me, you know,
is we have other dictators that we're friends with. And who are we friends with that's worth
in Putin? All across the Middle East, man. What about, what about, what's his name, BB?
Netanyahu. Netanyahu. He's elected. He's elected. You know, they like him, whether we like him or
not. He's an elected official. His country has a democratic election. His political party
nominates him to be the prime minister, and he puts together a coalition and they win.
And so that's not a dictatorship. We may not like him, or maybe some people do,
but that's he's elected by his people, though. You know, you can look at, you know,
MBS in Saudi Arabia, I mean, Oh, yeah, that's a kingdom. Yeah, all over the Middle East,
they're all dictators. I mean, we have Maduro down in South America in Venezuela,
and we're wanting to reduce sanctions and move all that stuff away. Why? So we can use their oil.
But this is a horrible dictator. And we've isolated them and crippled their economy with
sanctions and kind of gotten them down and weakened them in hopes that he would eventually lose. But
now we're going to remove all that so we can pump up his oil industry so we can, you know,
produce more oil for us. But why don't we just produce oil here? Why do we need to do that for
those guys? It makes sense. What you're saying makes perfect sense to why there's no reporting
on that proxy war in Yemen with Saudi Arabia and Iran. It's been going on for almost a decade now.
And maybe you can explain this to me. This was something I was talking to a friend about last
night. Why is there a war between Iran and Saudi Arabia happening in Yemen, which is the other way?
Because they can't fight each other. And not directly at least. The US is actually kind of a
shield between them. We have the naval and air bases blocking some of those areas in the Red
Sea and the Persian Gulf there. So you have a lot of oil traffic moving in and out there with all
the in Yemen. No, no, through through the straight of Hormuz going into the
Can you pull up a map of like that whole area Austin? Yeah, you'll see a whole string of military
bases, US bases on there. And so if the Iranians try to go across there and do that, they're going
to run into problems with us. Whereas if you go through Horn of Africa, down in Yemen,
the lower portion of Saudi Arabia there, there's no issues down there. The government toppled
that we were backing and now it's just kind of a pre-fault. The Houthis kind of control it.
Okay. So they're like coming in the back door. Correct. Correct. Because if you look at Abu Dhabi
and those in Qatar, we have bases there. We have a whole naval task force out there.
Where's Qatar on this map? It should be a smaller place right above Dubai. You see it there?
That's where the World Cup was. Okay. Okay. I see it. I see it. Yeah, tiny little speck. Yeah.
But that whole area is just very militarized. Whereas if you go in from Yemen, there's not
a lot of defenses out there. You can do things out there and go through there. But what's
interesting, so we sold Abrams battle tanks to Saudi Arabia and the Germans have sold leopard
tanks to Turkey. So we have actual experience seeing these tanks being used in combat by non-U.S.,
non-German forces. So if you can YouTube some of the videos of Saudis using our Abrams battle
tanks in the war in Yemen against the Houthis there, those are not the same kind of tanks that
we use. I mean, the shell is sure. Right. But it doesn't seem armor mix. So what makes an American
Abram so deadly and formidable is the type of... It's a classified material used in making the
armor. And we don't give that to anyone. Like no ally has that. Australia doesn't have it. They're
buying Abrams from us. They're not getting that. No one gets that. That's a special U.S. only thing.
And it means it helps our tanks always have a competitive edge should we ever have to fight
our own tanks. So when we're giving tanks to Ukraine, we're not giving them the same equivalent
that we have. We're going to be giving them this partner-nation version, which doesn't have that
same quality armor, doesn't have some of the same weapon technology and integrated firing systems that
our stuff's going to have because that's what makes our tanks special. That's classified material.
We're not going to do that because it's going to get destroyed at some point. These things do
happen. You're going to lose equipment in a war. We don't want that falling Russian hands
because they will take that and they will bring that back and they will analyze what it is.
And before you know it, them and the Chinese have it. Just like when we lost a self-fighter over
Serbia and during the coastal Serbia war in 1999. Well, parts of that was brought to the
Chinese embassy. And coincidentally, we had an air bomb destroy the Chinese embassy.
We didn't want that stuff falling into other people's hands, the technology because it's
the shell of it, the coating. How do they coat the exterior of it? The paints,
the different types of materials, things like that. We didn't want them to reverse engineer
that kind of tech. So it's the same thing with the tank technology. And it's just not going to be
the savior everyone is thinking. And then you're going to have this logistical nightmare of trying
to get parts for these tanks. And you're not talking a lot of tanks either. It's not enough
to make a difference, which is what kills me about it. And then the same with the Germans,
they're not sending in the top of the line leopards. And the British are sending their tanks
in, but again, they're sending 14. Seriously, 14. I mean, it's not even a battalion of tanks.
So what are you going to do with 14 tanks? And you combine, however, it's like under 30 U.S.
Abrams. I mean, it's like, guys, you're not serious about winning this conflict. If we're
going to, I mean, it really kills me with our interventions. If we're going to go to war,
then go to war to win. Don't go to war to lose. We haven't won. If you look at it,
we haven't won a war since World War II. We'll win a lot. We win most battles that we fight,
but we still lose. But that just sucks. I mean, I spent, like they say, I spent most of my
late 20s and early 30s in Iraq, you know, three and a half years of time in that country,
on that mission, trying to win this thing and make this thing work. And then to find out years later,
everything goes awry to get us there. And then you guys didn't give us the tools and allow us to
win it and walk away. It's like, what did we just do? Why did I sacrifice all those years of my life?
You heard about the burn pit issues that a lot of us vets are having to deal with from that stuff.
So when we capture Intel, right? So we capture people with these nifty little cell phones, right?
And laptops and computers, different things like that, right? That stuff has to get destroyed.
So how do we destroy this stuff? We burn this crap. So when you're burning lithium ion batteries,
that causes a problem. It creates fluoride gas and other kinds of toxic materials.
And they didn't tell us about this kind of stuff. They didn't give us
proper protective materials when you're having to do this. So you have to burn these materials.
We got burned classified materials every shift. You're breathing in this kind of stuff all the
time and it causes long-term health effects. For instance, I was 31 years old and I had to have
double hip replacements at age 31 because shortly after I got back from my last time in Iraq,
a few months later, I developed vascular necrosis out of nowhere in both my hips.
It's where the blood flow to the bone just stops. It just stops. Your bones become brittle and break.
And so both my hip bones just became brittle and broke. And I've had to have them replaced.
And the really bad part is when they did the left hip, they didn't do that one correctly.
So I had to have a revision surgery. We had to go do it again. So like three years later,
I had to have that thing replaced again. Except when they did the revision,
they broke a part of the bone off and it healed in the wrong spot. And now it's pushing into a
cluster of nerves. And then they did something. They didn't put the proper joint head on there,
ball head on the rod. And it's too small. So now it kind of vibrates on the bone. It's just
oh, that's freaking painful. And the only way I can get this thing fixed is to have it done a third
time. Hip replacements are pretty painful surgeries to have. And they leave you, it's a week in a
hospital, three weeks in rehab. It leaves you down for a little while. Are you doing this in the VA?
I will the next time. I didn't do that the first time. The first surgery I had to have was actually
done in Germany. I was working in Germany at the time. And then I had the revision done once in
Chicago. But I'm going to have to have this done a third freaking time. And it sucks because we're
stuck dealing with these physical problems and issues now from this war. And this is crap that's
going to plague us for decades. And I'm not the only one. There's lots of other guys.
Biden's son died from a brain cancer that is completely tied to the burn pit stuff.
Really? Yes. His son died from a type of cancer that a lot of other vets have died from
all attributed from the burn pits. What is the background of his son?
He was a jag. He was a lawyer. So he was deployed over there doing... We use lawyers a lot. I mean,
I use him as an interrogator. We had four lawyers assigned to our unit on different shifts. And so
we worked with him all the time in our unit. And they're always there advising commanders,
which you can and can't do for laws of armed conflict, things like that. Are you allowed
to do this strike or not? Well, what does a lawyer say? Sucks, you got to fight over
a lawyer next to you. But that's where we're at these days. But his son was a lawyer over there
in something. He was exposed to the same materials I've been exposed to in everyone else.
Wow. And so you got that cancer and died. There's other people we know that have had that cancer.
I know another one of our friends from our church, he'd retired from the military, worked a lot of
different... A lot of different secret squirrel crap. But he was over there in Iraq and Afghanistan
for a number of years before he retired. And then he ended up getting that same type of cancer that
Biden's son got, that brain cancer. And he hung on for a while. He hung on for like four or five
years before he died. He died a couple years ago from it. But it's just... And this shits off from
the burn pits. Yeah. Good. Materials just don't know what you're breathing in. Just like in Vietnam
guys, they had that H in orange that they kept defaulted so that they were just raining down on
them as they're out there doing patrols. Well, they're just doing patrols. They don't know what's
going on. They're exposed to it. What is this, Austin? It's just a list of all the things. Oh, yeah.
Oh, all the different types of cancers. Oh my God, kidney cancer, lymphatic cancer. Yeah. They just
passed this new burn pit legislation for vets, which was really good because the VA was notorious for
like denying everything. Wow, man. Yeah. So we have that to look for. It's like the medical time
bond. It's in our body to explode. But it frustrates me because if we're going to go to war,
then give us a clear-cut objective, what we're to accomplish, and then give us an exit strategy
and define what winning is. We know what the objective is, what we can work towards.
Let's win. Take the shackles off, let us win. Is it the case with proxy wars, like the one in
Yemen? Is it true that the dynamic is basically we want to be helpful to our allies, Saudi Arabia,
because we need them and they need us. We want to maintain the relationship.
So we want to basically look like we're doing everything we can to help them, but we don't
really have a fuck about helping them. We just want to make it seem like... Kind of. So it's more
sinister than that even. So... Okay. That's why you don't give them the best tanks. We give them...
Well, look, we're giving you this. It's even worse than that. Okay. So with Saudi Arabia in Yemen,
do we really want them to win? Not necessarily. Because if as long as this fight is happening,
and Saudi Arabia is having, is losing tanks, losing equipment like MRAPs and armored vehicles,
and having to expend missiles, like Patriot missiles, and all kinds of things like that,
that is a continuous source of supply, like a demand. It's kind of like a drug dealer, right?
He doesn't want to kill you by giving you too much drugs. He wants you addicted and coming back for
more. So if Saudi Arabia is fighting the Houthis... The more they owe us, the more we give them,
the more they owe us. Well, the more they owe us, but they need replacements. They're losing equipment.
They need to buy more from us. They lose that equipment. They got to keep buying more from us.
Well, if they're having to buy equipment from us to make sure they don't lose to the Houthis,
when Saudi does something we don't like, we now have a little more leverage on them. Well, okay,
maybe we are going to put these weapons sales on hold. And that devastates them because they built
their army around our equipment. It's only you choked off the supply for parts and servicing
and everything else. That means they're going to comply. So there's that piece of it. So if we
can... It's like with Ukraine, we're getting the Europeans to just expend everything they have,
and Uncle Sam's going to come around and be the sugar daddy to supply them with everything to
replace it. And because they don't have any of their own indigenous equipment, they're dependent
on us. We can now control your ability to defend your nation by turning the supply
spickets on and off if you don't comply. That's why you want to make sure you own your own defense
systems and stuff like that. That's why you see Poland. They're buying a lot of American weapons
and artillery and munitions, things like that. But they're also partnering with South Korea to buy a
lot of their armored vehicles and equipment, and they're building their own indigenous systems
and their own industry to be able to supply and do it themselves because they want to be independent.
Poland has a horrible history of being screwed by its allies. And they want to make sure this
doesn't happen again in the future. So... Have you ever watched Oliver Stone's Putin interviews?
Yes. Really interesting. What did you think about that? It was really interesting. I mean,
I think Oliver Stone has his own bent and angled to things. But again, I'm not trying to side with
Putin or with Russia or anything like that. I just like studying people and I like learning
what makes them tick and why countries and... I'm glad you did it. Yeah, I think it's brilliant.
Because as a writer, someone trying to create these books, when I want to create
Book Two or Book Three for this series, I use those resources to help me better understand
the conflict, better understand the scenario. In this particular one, in road doctrine,
one of the things we really expose and look at is the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative.
And this is where they have China's big manufacturing company, Country. What they want to do
is link their factories with markets around the world. So you have a constant supply of
customers and that keeps them going. So Belt and Road is basically a global infrastructure plan
where they will come in to say a country, a poor country, somewhere along Central America,
and they will say, all right, we will build, we will help build and finance a deep water port
which will massively improve your country and economy. But we're going to own 51% of the port
and you get the benefit of it all. And then we will help build from the port these rail and
highway networks connecting your major cities. All this is being done out of the altruistic
nature of their hearts. This is being done to ensure they have a consumer to buy as a product
that they're building. That makes sense. That's why they're spending all this money in Africa.
That's what they're doing with that. But more importantly, they're also at the same time putting
you into a debt trap where the interest rates on these things are really low, cheap, but they're
lots. It's big and they own 51% of the port or maybe they own 49%, but there's a clause that if
you fail to make your payments, it reverts to their ownership. There's all kinds of little
things they do. Now, these nations are poor. They want to develop and grow and move forward.
The Chinese are coming in with essentially endless cash to do all of that. That's what
they're moving forward and accepting and doing that. The Chinese are all over the place with this,
but because they have control of these facilities and the infrastructure,
they can manipulate and change the foreign policy of those nations to be how they want it.
In our scenario, we look at that as one aspect of it. Now, we also look at artificial intelligence
and machine learning and saying, well, where is that going? Because we can use AI to help us
understand how, say, the naval commander for a ship is going to react
in certain circumstances and situations. How do we do that? Well, we look at what is this guy,
what's this guy's social profile, his online profile? What I mean by that is we look and say,
okay, well, what does he spend his money on? What does he do on social media? What kind of
interactions does he do? What does he watch on YouTube? What kind of books does he read from
Amazon? What's his purchasing behaviors? We look at all the different types of materials that he
does, and then we look at not just him, but his immediate orbit and his friends. What do they
all do? So that helps to shape the person's opinion, who they are, personalities, all those
different social profiles of that. And then they have these awesome games on Facebook that everyone
just loves to play. What character are you in Lord of Rings or in what's a Game of Thrones? Who cares?
But people click on this shit. And when they do, they go through and they answer all these different
questions, right? And those questions give a certain type of social, it's like a social
assessment. It's like assessing individuals and people. And then when you're also doing that,
there's also a clause that actually grants them access to then see everything you do on the site
and from there and do even more. So they're really able to track a bunch of things. But they're giving,
they're getting you to play this game where you're helping them build a social profile of
you willingly, and you're giving them access to all of your social media. So when you have
machines that can take all this stuff and synthesize it, create profiles, you can start doing
predictive behavioral analysis. So now I can start like conditioning a society to accept
something by engineering everything to fit into a certain mold or poke and prod and push people.
Or I can understand how they will respond when an action happens. So like a way to condition
people, really good with social engineering case study. Look at last year when Florida passed
its parental rights bill, right? So the parental rights bill, different organizations were not
labeled this thing, don't say game. And that's what they tried to call it. They call this thing as
that. Who labeled it that? Whole slew of these left-wing groups started labeling this thing
that don't say gay bill. Well, it has nothing in the bills as you can't use the word gay. There's
nothing in it about homosexuality at all. All it is simply saying is that kids between the ages of,
well, kindergarten through third grade, so basically five-year-olds through eight-year-olds
should not be taught sexual content or sexual related materials. Okay. What was the name of
that act? It was the Parental Rights Act. And this was a massive thing that they took in a bill
that had nothing to do with being gay and made it into something it wasn't and got and renamed
the whole thing and then whipped up everyone into this frenzy over something that was never even
mentioned or a part of the bill. I mean, I have yet to find an adult who can explain to me why we
need to teach five-year-olds sex ed. They're five. Why are we telling them they need to start
understanding gender pronouns and using gender pronouns? Dude, they don't understand what a
noun or a verb is. I can't even write their names yet. You're making them do this? Why are you doing
this to them and let them be kids? Do you know why that act was put in place?
Because they were doing that. Because schools in Florida were actually doing that?
It's so permeated through there. They were actually putting this stuff in there.
What schools were doing it? I don't have the list of them off the top of my head.
That's insane. There's a whole slew of them, though, that you can see. And there's this one
gal, and I don't use TikTok. That's a Chinese spy app. I'm not on that thing.
But there's this group called Loops of TikTok. And familiar with it?
Yeah. So this woman who runs this thing, she doesn't do anything with it. She's literally
taking whatever it is you made on your TikTok thing and just sharing it. So you made it.
Reposting it?
You admitted to this. You said, I'm doing X, Y, and Z, and I'm proud of it.
All she did was just repost it. You put it out there. She didn't create anything. Just put it
out there. And that's how everyone found out about this. Because you have these teachers
talking about this, getting their gratification and just feeling like importance when I got my
group of kindergartners to understand why I go by my pronoun or these different things. Like,
dude, your job is to educate kids. Don't. Why is this important? Why is this part of it?
And it comes back to our schools are failing the basics of just making sure that our kids can
read, write, and respect it. They're just not doing this. So if we're not getting those things
right, then why are we going to expand into other areas, social, social areas like this?
When we're not even getting the basics right, our emphasis needs to be on why are our kids not
being able to meet and exceed their grade levels in their education? We spend more money on
education than almost any other developing nation. We do. We spend huge sums of money on
education. And we have the worst results from this stuff. How come an elementary school teacher
makes the same amount of money as a Burger King manager? Well, it's not because we don't spend
money on the education. The money is there. It's a matter of how the money is allocated, though.
How many school administrators and support personnel do you have per teacher? The teachers
should be getting paid a lot more money. But if you have a slew of school administrators and other
teaching jobs that are taking up salaries and oftentimes quite high salaries, that's money
you don't have for teachers. It's like the university systems. Well, universities have
become very expensive because you have a whole plethora of non-teaching jobs and positions
that are not contributing to teaching students, teaching people. It's like a contract having
being able to bill a client or not bill a client. Right. Also, everyone gets loans to go to college.
So they don't have to pay anything out of pocket. And they have deals with these financial institutions
where they just have these ridiculous student loan programs. Think about this. This is a horrible
debt trap. We put our own cells in, right? I mean, I got $62,000 to steal loans myself from
Boxer, okay? I mean, I'm in the boat too. I've paid off a good chunk of money. But what happens is
you have the federal government's going to guarantee X amount of money for tuition, right?
So what'll happen is the school will be like, okay, well, if we increase tuition by an extra 3%
each year, the government's just going to increase the amount of loans available by that same amount.
So as long as the government's going to guarantee a certain increase for the students, then we'll
just continue to increase it. And the student doesn't know any better. They just want to go to
college. So they sign up for these things and get it. And then next thing you know,
they've got all of the student loan. They've got all these debts. And this is the worst kind of debt
because it's not even, they wrote the laws for the student loans in such a manner that you can't
even discharge it. That's what's really bad. How much interest is on student loans? It depends.
If you have a federal loan, it's usually not that bad. I mean, most my federal loans, I think
are like three and a quarter. I mean, it's not too bad. But personally, I think if the government's
going to do something like that, then maybe you should set the interest rate at maybe like half a
percent or 1%. It should be just enough to service the loan, not to make a profit. Because actually,
the government actually makes a solid profit on student loan interest. Because it's just,
it's over a trillion dollars. They make money on student loans. And like right now with the budget
deficits we're facing, part of the deficit we're actually facing is because we're not collecting
the interest payments. We're not collecting payments on student loans. You know, it's kind
of a problem. But you know, that's the issue. The school's allowed to keep raising rates
without justifying why they're doing that. Because the education isn't improving,
not teaching anything new and cool. That's worth that jump. But we're going to charge all this
extra money. I mean, we're not producing hordes of doctors and people in the STEM fields. We're
producing tons and tons of people getting degrees in, you know, English literature,
gender studies, and history. It's like, well, that's cool knowledge to know. That's why you call
them humanities. That shouldn't be your major though. If we have a shortage in engineers and
scientists and doctors and whatnot, then shouldn't the student loans be made available for people
who want to go into those fields? And not for... There shouldn't even be loans. We should just
be able to give that. The government should pay for that. If we could buy all those tanks and
rockets for other countries, we should be able to buy the fucking education for doctors and
lawyers and engineers and physicists. So when I was in Germany, a lot of people say, well,
look at Germany, you probably have like free healthcare and they have free education.
And technically, that's true. But there's catches to all of that, okay? So in the education system,
it's free. And once you're in, you could stay and get your PhD. There's nothing pushing you
off the door to go to work. That's why Germany has sold many PhDs, so many people with PhDs,
because it'll just stay as a permanent student for 12 years. Because the government pays them to do,
gives them money to live on and it's free. Sounds like a lot of the rich kids I grew up around.
But here's the catch. Here's the catch for it, okay? You have to take a national standardized test.
And if you don't get any certain percentile, you don't go to college. You're just done. Now,
you can go to private college and pay for that on your own, where a family camera goes to loans
for it. It doesn't want to do it. Well, yes and no. I mean, it isn't it isn't. So you have a lot of
people who just maybe they don't test well. They suck at taking tests. They're just not a good
person to sit there and regurgitate test questions, right? Does that mean that person's not super
smart though and probably would be grading college in great afterwards? No, just means
they're not good at taking a test. There are a lot of people who are really good at taking tests
and they are stupid. Like they're really good at regurgitating test questions and scoring on there.
But they're dumb as a box of rocks. They just don't have a common sense. But those are the ones
who are going to be allowed to get the education then, because they don't want to test well.
And so it really it blocks people from having that full access. And what happens in their schools
is usually in their high school, what they call their their version of high school,
you either get identified to either you're going to go academic route like college or you're going
to go trade route and you kind of diverge and you split in high schools. Usually it usually
happens like in middle school and you find like three or four years of high school you split.
And then you're going down one track or the other. And you're kind of like stuck. Like what if you
decided, I don't want to be a plumber. I really want to go to go to college and go to engineering.
Well, that's not an option anymore. I mean, you can try to take those standardized tests
and hope to get the right score you need. But your all of your all of your high school education
until you finished high school didn't prepare you for that. So you're out of here is just a
vantage to do that. And so if we had that kind of a system, it may be free, but just understand
very few are actually going to get the benefit from it. It would be another caste system, so to
speak, that we just create on the medical side. So when I was there as contractor, I had private
health insurance, which meant I got seen by a doctor like that. I went to the doctor on Monday,
he said, Oh, your hip broke. That's why it hurts so much. That's what you showed me MRI.
We're going to do surgery on Friday. Like, okay, you know, it hurts like hell. So yeah,
they're going to do surgery right away. Well, my roommate, you know, has his hip replaced you.
So he was a cop, you know, he's a public science. He's a local cop. And I was talking with him
about this. And he told me that his hip when his hip broke, he waited six weeks for his slot to get
his surgery. I mean, it's free. He doesn't pay anything for it. But he has to wait in a queue.
And your queue, as long as there's no one like super severe that gets bumped in front of you,
it's like there's not like a line of cute cases in front of you, you'll eventually get seen
relatively quickly. But there are other times where you can end up waiting a very long time.
And I don't know if you've had anyone who's had a broken hip will attest to this.
When that happens, you don't want to wait six weeks to get this thing fixed. It's
broke for a reason and it hurts. Right. You can still move around sometimes,
but you're grinding on broken bone. It's quite painful. But it's free.
Yeah. I mean, there's trade offs. It's not as green as everyone thinks.
Yeah, I've heard a lot of stories about the VA being really slow and not efficient and,
you know, poor quality service. Then my dad has been dealing with the VA. He's an Air Force veteran.
And, you know, he's just been recently dealing with some stuff, having to go there for some
checkups and some physicals. He had to get hearing aids. He's losing his hearing. And
he's had a really positive experience with the VA. He says,
You can't be jump into where you're at. I've had really great experiences with the VA here.
I did not have a good experience with the VA in DC or in Chicago.
Right. Just terrible VA's up there.
Yeah. I had Kristen Beck. Are you familiar with Kristen Beck on here? Navy Seal?
His name was Chris Beck. He transitioned to being Kristen Beck.
Ah, does he manufacture the firearms? There's another person who's kind of like that.
There's a Navy Seal. He has a firearm manufacturer here.
There's a book and a documentary made about her. And it's called Lady Valor. It was like a,
I think it was either CNN or HBO documentary made about his story or her story. It was
pretty incredible. I forgot where I was going with this. Oh,
just a challenge with the VA. She taught you a lot of problems with the VA.
A lot of problems with the VA because she dealt with a lot of psychological issues,
being a Seal in Iraq. And it's tough. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, you're in combat for very intense periods of time. And then you go home and you're
back in intense combat. And that's kind of a difference between the special warfare guys
versus line units, regular grunts. They're there for a year. Sometimes they see the action.
Sometimes they don't. Sometimes they go through the whole time without having any issues of
problems. Whereas the special warfare guys, they go in and they're there for, whether it's
three months or five months, but that period of there, it is high intensity for that period.
And then they go home. And then high intensity and then they go home. It's tough on those guys,
man. It's tough. Really tough. But it's like future warfare stuff. Man, that's scary as hell,
because the technology, where it's going with the drones and the AI and everything else,
like there was a Textron has, they have a really interesting remote controlled ground vehicle.
Like you can look it up. The Army's got these really unique,
the future Army combat systems, part of it are making these autonomous ground vehicles.
So what you'll be able to do is you'll have different sized, like armored fighting vehicles
and tanks will have different kinds of weapons on them, different sizes. But these vehicles
are will be able to kind of like a UAV, they'll be remotely controlled. So they can go into
combat zone area from, well, the guy who's actually operating maybe hundreds of miles away
or even the other side of the world. And the vehicle go in and be able to conduct its operations,
its missions. It's kind of scary to think about because there's going to come a point where
like you have, take for instance with Tesla, right? They've got their self-driving AI software.
And that is getting better every single year, because you have hundreds of thousands of people
using it, recording more data. It's not going to be long before you're going to have that same
kind of technology and capability that can operate this armored vehicle that will be able to autonomously
go into a combat zone where you just say, okay, everyone in like this area here is classified
as an enemy combatant. So just go in and as it identifies, people just start engaging them.
And you have that, you'll have, you know, aircraft, helicopters, soon underwater.
We already have that stuff though. It's crazy, but they're all man in the loop right now.
You know, they're being physically operated by someone. We're not far away though, where
this is going to be a semi-autonomous to fully autonomous weapons. And then you're going to
have these things just moving across. That's going to be scary. Yeah. What was the story a
couple of months ago that San Francisco was going to start police, right? They were going to have
robots kill people. It's like crazy. Like what do you mean? Robots kill people.
With basically the authority to murder people. I guess they rolled it back once it started getting
a lot of publicity. It's nuts. It's nuts where we're going with some of the technology like that.
Then on the other hand, you know, you think about technology and AI and where we're going,
it's spooky where it's going, but then you see this goofy ass balloon, spy balloon,
floating across America. Like, are you kidding me? Are we really still using balloons in 2022,
2023? I don't know. I think, I don't know. They say it's a weather balloon gathering.
Is that a smoke screen? Who knows? I think it was a map. Maybe it was just like a middle finger
that floated across the country and I'm saying, huh, look what we can do. We just floated right
across your country and you didn't do anything about it. And you know, kind of a black eye from
there, but as a writer, okay, here's a scenario. Imagine this balloon and you place a nuclear
device on this balloon, right? And it explodes at those high altitudes. What's it going to create?
Electromagnetic pulse system that would blanket a big chunk of the United States.
Fry all our circuitry and take us out. So, you know, the writer in me looks at that and says,
wow, that's a cool scenario. How could that work? You know, and what if they did something like that?
What if they wanted to test it and say, hey, can we float a balloon across the United States without
getting seen or anything? And the scary part is, had this rancher out there and was at Wyoming or
whatever, not seen it and reported it, we probably never would have known about it.
And it sounds from the reports from the Pentagon, they wouldn't have known about it.
Because apparently they're trying to say that this has happened in the past and we didn't know about
it. Really? You had balloons the size of 200 foot long balloons floating across the country,
you didn't know about it? What if someone did put an EMP bomb on there and did that?
I also think too, was there really only one or how many of these are really floating across the
skies that we know about? And we just wanted to say, create some sort of sigh up to point the
American public, make them look at China. Look at China, look what they're doing to us.
Somebody is sitting in CIA right now, just laughing their ass off.
You remember what happened right before this, right? So right before the balloon thing,
as when Product Veritas had this big sting operation that they had done with one of the
Pfizer employees, who kind of talked about how the vaccines just didn't work and went through
that whole process and exposed all of that. And then a couple of days later, oh, we have a balloon
up here, Chinese option over here. I don't remember even seeing what you're talking about.
Yeah, look up, look up Project Veritas with that whole thing they had about the Pfizer stuff. It
was a big deal. And then magically, Austin, can you find that? Magically, like less than a week
or two later, Pfizer's board ends up Alistair James O'Keefe, who was the founder and the president
for the company who does this, like that's his gig. And they get rid of him. And now,
he's out in the left flap in the way. He'll probably restart his own brand new version of
Project Veritas and restart the whole thing. But it's like coincidental timing from them
breaking this big story. That's one of the biggest stories of the decade to the balloon to then his
Alistair. All within weeks. Coincidence, I mean. Yeah, that shit is scary. That's crazy. The vaccine
stuff is really, really scary. You should try and talk to James O'Keefe. The reason that stuff
scares me is just the level of control that has been put on social media and the internet
and communication just based on that. That is what scares me. Elon Musk exposed all of that.
And I was like, wow, I mean, from an Intel perspective, I understand and know that stuff
happens. And just, I guess I was surprised at how easier the media was to just be
laptops for all of this and just compliant to it. What happened to investigative journalism?
Not investigative journalism. Journalism, period. That goes back to a Jack Murphy was
talking about. When he was putting out his story for the CIA, he was working with one of the top
two publications in the country. And when it came down to the clock is ticking to hit the
publish button on that article, they had to run it by the CIA's deputy director. They had a
conference call, a three-way call with his editor at the publication and the CIA's deputy director
on the phone off the record. He didn't have an on the record agreement with this guy,
said completely vehemently denied everything about those cells being in Russia doing those
sabotage campaigns, conducting those sabotage campaigns. In fact, he said that it was rogue
Ukrainians conducting those campaigns. So after the call, he has another one-on-one with his
editor saying, okay, what are we going to do? And the editor says, we have to scrub every
single mention of the CIA out of the story. Yeah, rogue Ukrainians that are on CIA payroll.
He wanted to completely make it line up with the deputy director's narrative, but they couldn't
just take the story and say, deputy director of the CIA says this at the bottom or something like
that, say they denied it. No, they had to make it jive with his story. That is fucking scary,
because now you're not doing journalism. Now you're just a mouthpiece for the state.
I mean, that is completely... I understand that the CIA's job is to keep clandestine
missions off the front page of the newspaper. I completely understand that. But when you are
absolutely tied into the biggest journalistic publications in the country, it is completely
undermining what it means to do journalism and to be a journalist. Yeah, it is. It is.
It's sad. I mean... And that's why I question so much about this Russia thing, when we say that
Russia is completely... They're completely blinded by propaganda. Everything there is propaganda.
Are we not blinded by propaganda? Yeah, that's what's made me see that more than anything.
What is this? Oh, did Pfizer's boss cast doubt on his own vaccine? Is this the veritas thing?
Yeah, probably some of it, but they are... The whole story was just really interesting.
Okay. Well, James, I've learned a lot from this conversation, man. We just did three hours.
I appreciate you coming by, man. This has been a really fun conversation. We covered everything.
People are kind of like, this is how we come up with our material for our books. You ask questions,
okay? Lots and lots of questions. It's not that you take a position on one thing or another.
It's just about absorbing the information so you can then create these scenarios. Because I want to
have these scenarios out there so people can look at that and go, man, what if this happened? What
if that happened? Wow. Well, there's a book about it. There's a whole series on that. So if you
and walk the dog, see what happens, what could happen? And maybe we go, damn, that is not something
we should pursue because here's a somewhat realistic scenario. How could possibly play out?
And that's kind of... It's almost like, I would say like warnings and stuff like that, but just
trying to put ideas out there of how things could shake out. And I think that's kind of important
for people to see and have out there. Because we sure as hell know the media is not going to do
that. Reporters aren't doing that. It's a very, very unique tool and sort of endeavor that you
can go down. That it's really fascinating how you can predict things that happen in real life
when you're just writing fiction and you're trying to cook up scenarios.
You just look and say, well, how do I do this? It's an exercise that not a lot of people do. Or
maybe they do and I'm just not in the world. Well, you have to think nefariously, too.
And take on the nefarious motive, well, how would I do this? If I want to jack up a country's
electoral system, how would I do that? Walk through the whole thing and say, okay, now I've
got that. Could I do this in the United States? Or how would I do this in the United States?
How would I manipulate to gain control? It's all about control and mind, control and mind.
Most of the world's revolves around that. And so you just figure that out and then say, all right,
well, let's create a series on that. Let's create a book series on that and walk the dog.
Incredible.
You start seeing it actually unfold and you're like, damn, probably shouldn't have made that.
Hopefully I'm not making a blueprint for someone.
Right. And it's really cool, too, to see someone like yourself go from what you did overseas to
actually finding some sort of meaning in life and create a career for yourself and
develop some sort of purpose for yourself.
Well, how about let's find this, too. I've got two other veterans that I've
mentored to this whole process who are now writing and creating their own books and doing
their own things. And they're making money at this. They're making $3,000, $4,000 a month
and growing with their book sales and building that out. And it's creating alternative jobs and
careers that help them overcome their, whether it's a physical disability or just the psychological
trauma of PTSD and things like that. You don't have to be a permanently damaged or injured person.
There's ways to overcome this and still be productive. And that's important.
Powerful stuff, man. Tell people that are listening and watching where they can buy
your books, look at your website, your social media, all of it.
Yeah. So you find all of our books on amazon.com. We're available in Kindle Limited and print and
audiobooks. Oh, you do audio, too, all of them?
All of them are audio. Do you read them?
No, I don't. I have professionals who do that because I'm way better doing story creating.
Yeah. I already work like 80 hours a week on this stuff.
It's like somebody with a good voice. And yeah.
Yeah. And that's why, you know, we create that stuff. And it's odd because I've got the thrillers
that we really dominate on. And we also have, you've been sci-fi, took us a break because
some of it's not real and kind of push and do that. But it's been fun. It's been a need to learn
and learn like the digital marketing side of it all. And we found out last year on Amazon,
we hit the top 100 most read writers. I think it was like seven out of the 12 months
to their Kindle Limited program. We had, gosh, was it almost 74 million pages read through
their Kindle Limited program of the books. It's just, that's insane because we're self-published.
We do this on our own. We don't have a publisher that works with us. We have an agent,
you know, nothing like that. It's 100% on our own. So it's our own ability to create the stories,
edit them, get them up there, and then figure out how to market them and do that.
So yeah, just plow all the skills you learn from the government and plow it in here,
marketing and creating books. And so it works.
Incredible work, man. Well, thanks again for doing this. I really, really appreciate it.
Yep. Good talking to you guys.
