Okay, we'll start it right here, okay.
So Maria Boutina came to the United States to go to grad school at American University
and she's a, I know Maria, she's, she's, she's very cool, but she's a gun nut and she just
loves, loves, loves guns of all kinds.
And so she founded in Russia this small group that is akin to a little mini version of the,
of the NRA.
And so she took it upon herself to reach out to the NRA when she got here and said, hey,
I'm the head of this Russian gun club and we want to have relations with you.
And they said, okay, that sounds great.
Come and look at our museum.
They have this, it's actually a very cool museum out in Vienna, Virginia.
And so she became kind of a woman about town.
You'd run into her at the Metropolitan Club, at the Army Navy Club.
She would be at different think tanks or the Heritage Foundation.
And then she started dating the guy who was the founder of Overstock.com.
Okay.
Right.
And next thing you know, the FBI arrests her and they charge her, and this is the important
part here.
Charge her with failure to register as a foreign agent.
Now the, the keywords are foreign agent.
You and I probably have a very different view of what those words mean than what a guy down
the street thinks they mean.
All that means, this is, this is something called a process crime or a process felony.
All it means is that you failed to fill out a form online, right?
I'll give you an example.
About 15 years ago, I was hired by the Abu Dhabi Chamber of Commerce to write three
op-eds saying Abu Dhabi is great and they don't have any taxes and everybody should
do business there, right?
And they gave me $1,200, but I went online to, to the Justice Department's FARA website,
the foreign, foreign agent registration act website.
It's like fara.gov or fara.justice.gov or whatever it is.
And I filled out this form.
It took about 10 minutes and I said, I've accepted money from a foreign entity called
the Abu Dhabi Chamber of Commerce.
They gave me $1,200 and this is what I did for the $1,200 and I attached my three op-eds.
Done.
Right.
Okay.
Nobody ever asked me about it ever in the last 15 years.
All she had to do was to go online and fill out this form and say, I take money from the
Russian version of the NRA and I set up a meeting with the American NRA and we would like to
have a cooperative arrangement.
That's all she had to do, but they arrested her because she didn't fill out the form.
Now, technically, this is a felony until about five years ago.
This felony was never prosecuted, never.
Most Americans didn't even know that you have to fill out the form if you're taking
money from a foreign entity, but about five years ago, for whatever reason, the Trump
Justice Department, and this is the same thing with the Biden Justice Department.
This is not a partisan thing.
They decided, you know what, it's easy to get convictions on this.
We're going to start nailing people on this.
The federal sentencing guidelines for a first offense you've never been convicted of a
crime before is zero to six months in a federal prison, zero to six months.
If you've never been arrested before, you didn't realize you were supposed to fill out
this form.
You're going to get like a $5,000 fine, right?
They gave her 18 months in solitary confinement and the Russians were outraged.
And so they said, oh, okay, so this is how you're going to treat us?
We're going to grab this basketball player, see how you like that.
Yo, guys, I just wanted to drop in to say thank you to everyone who's been subscribing
on the videos.
It's been helping a lot.
The numbers have been growing and we're going to keep doing these podcasts because I can't
reiterate this enough.
If it wasn't for you guys, we would not be able to do this.
So thank you all to everyone who's watching, everyone who's subscribing, sharing.
It all makes such a huge difference.
And that's it.
I love you guys.
Back to the show.
We gave her 10 years for having a little bit of cannabis oil.
And then we were like, okay, then we're going to arrest Putin's nephew in Rome and we're
going to charge him with money laundering.
And they said, oh, yeah, then we're going to arrest the Wall Street Journal reporter
and we're going to charge him with espionage.
So how do you like that?
This is where we are now.
It's like a child's game.
And then what's going to end up happening?
And the Russians actually said this in public just about a week ago.
They said, there's going to end up being another prisoner exchange like we used to do during
the Cold War where you meet on the bridge in Berlin and their guy walks halfway across
and our guy walks halfway across and just like in the movies.
That's what's going to happen again.
So the last time we gave them Victor Boot and they gave us Brittany Griner.
Now we're going to end up giving them somebody else and they're going to give us Evan Gershkovitz
from the Wall Street Journal.
And then, you know, Paul Whelan who's in jail in Russia 10 years for drunken disorderly
or something.
I saw an interview with Vladimir Putin one time and it was an American journalist asked
him, what about Paul Whelan?
This guy's been in jail for like five years.
And I was surprised at the frankness of Putin's response.
He said, this is a guy who got shitfaced and who attacked a cop and he's in jail because
he deserves to be in jail.
Okay.
Well, you know what?
If you get shitfaced and you...
It was like a Marine or something, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Then what are you going to give the guy, you know, 30 days?
About 10 years at hard labor and just hold him until you can, you can trade him for somebody
better.
Right.
But this is where we find ourselves now.
Is there like a, like an overall sort of plan or strategic objective to all this?
No.
It's a tit for tat.
Just a...
Wow.
Yeah.
Like, you know, you go to work every day and you hope that, that we don't, or that they
don't arrest somebody because then we're going to have to arrest somebody.
And then if we do, then they're going to arrest somebody else.
And then we have to arrest somebody else.
And so it's just not a way to carry out foreign policy.
Do you speak full Russian?
No.
I don't speak any Russian.
No, not at all.
I speak Greek and Arabic.
Okay.
So I wanted to have you back.
You're one of the best guests I've ever had on the show.
Thank you.
Pleasure's mine.
You always have some of the best outlooks on what's going on around the world.
So I wanted to get you back because it's a, it's a pretty crazy time around the world
right now.
It is indeed.
So when it comes to everything, what specifically are you like looking at right now, most interested
in or most concerned about with everything going on, like with the wars that are happening
in Ukraine, Israel, all of it?
Yeah.
I'm, I'm pretty heavily focused on, on Israel and on Ukraine, but I'm also pretty focused
on privacy issues right now.
You know, the government is just, the American government is just pushing and pushing and
pushing into areas of, of press freedom and individual liberties.
I never considered myself to be, you know, terribly concerned about government overreach.
And now I'm very, very concerned about government overreach.
And again, this is not a partisan issue.
This is not something where you can say, Oh, you know, the Democrats, all they want to
do is control the news that we, that we get to see or the Republicans, they don't want
you to know.
That's not it at all.
It's when you allow government entities to push the envelope into areas that may or may
not be legal, or even if they're legal, may or may not be ethical, they're never going
to willingly concede those gains.
They're never going to say, you know what, we shouldn't have done that.
We should back off.
Right.
Never.
Nobody's ever going to say that in the intelligence community or in federal law enforcement.
I'll give you an example.
Patriot Act.
Exactly.
That's exactly what I was going to say.
So we've got section 702 of the Patriot Act.
We didn't even know section 702 existed until Ed Snowden told us that it did.
We all believed, because this is what the founding fathers told us to believe 250 years
ago practically, we believed that the government could not infringe on your liberty without
the appropriate court authorization to do that, or authorities to do that, right?
You have to have probable cause.
You have to have a warrant.
Well, now with section 702, they don't have to have anything, and it's even worse than
just section 702.
I'll get to that in a second, but 702 means if you are on the phone, on a text message
thread, or an email thread, and somebody else on that thread, it doesn't matter who
is a foreign national, you have no expectation of privacy, and the government can intercept
everything that you're doing and saying.
Now you've not been accused of a crime.
The government hasn't gone to court and said, hey, this Danny Jones guy, we think he's
up to something.
We need a warrant.
No warrant.
They just take it, whether you like it or not, whether you know it or not, they just
take it, and NSA not just takes it and holds it.
They offer it up to the FBI, and they say, hey, we've intercepted these communications.
We don't know if they're important or not, but you might be interested in them, and they
just turn them over.
Well, there are no courts involved in any of this.
This all came from the Patriot Act.
Another thing now is the FBI, or really any law enforcement organization, has to get a
warrant from a court to collect your metadata.
You can figure out a lot about a person just from the metadata.
Who are you calling?
Who are you meeting?
Are you calling an abortion clinic?
Are you calling a criminal defense lawyer?
You don't even need to know what the substance of the conversation is.
Who you're in touch with.
Okay, so the FBI, they need a court order, a warrant, to get that information.
Actually, they don't.
Now they can just purchase it from the phone company, or from Twitter, or Facebook, or Verizon,
or anybody else, because all of it is bundled and sold.
Now, it's supposed to be sold for advertising purposes, but the FBI is not using it for advertising.
And the Supreme Court's never made any kind of decision on something like this.
So why would they go to court and lay out their hand and risk the information leaking to you,
or to the media, when they can just buy it from big tech?
And that's what they're doing.
I've heard the argument against this before, or the pushback against this, is like,
when it comes to things like the San Bernardino shooting, and I remember there was a big stink
with Apple and the FBI, Apple didn't want to give up the phone.
Absolutely right.
But there's the argument like, look, if the FBI could have had access to this guy's phone,
maybe they could have stopped something like that.
And if every American can just be okay with the fact like, okay, no, the FBI and the CIA,
they don't care about what porn you're watching, they don't care if you're cheating on your wife,
they don't care about all this normal everyday sort of drama.
But they need the oversight to be able to weed out people like that and to save people's lives.
Boiling that down, what you're saying is, if you haven't done anything wrong,
then why worry?
Do you know who the first person was to offer up that rhetorical question in a public venue?
It was Joseph Goebbels in 1933.
That's what we have to be careful of.
That's the slippery slope that we have to stay away from.
Oh, I haven't done anything wrong.
So sure, the FBI can have my stuff.
What was the context of that?
Germans didn't want to report on things that their neighbors were doing.
And Goebbels said, why not?
If you're not doing anything and they're not doing anything,
the information's just innocuous, then what do you care?
That's heavy.
And then they started rounding people up.
Now, do I believe the American government's going to round people up?
Of course not.
But what I do believe, and I believe this because of firsthand experience,
is if the government decides to target you for whatever reason,
they don't like your politics, they don't like your face,
they thought maybe you were involved in something else, they couldn't get you on,
they'll try something else, something different.
Then there's nothing you can do to protect yourself, nothing.
Now, getting back to the San Bernardino shooter,
you're right, they couldn't crack that iPhone and Apple refused to help them.
And it went to court and Apple won.
They ended up turning it over to an Israeli company.
And the Israeli company charged the FBI $6 million and they cracked it.
But the information that would have disrupted the attack didn't come from the phone.
Wait, Apple never turned it over to the FBI?
Apple wouldn't open the phone for the FBI.
Really?
No, no, they would not.
They were staunch about it.
In fact, the FBI director complained later that it was $6 million of the taxpayers'
money that otherwise didn't need to be spent.
Well, actually, yeah, to protect our civil liberties, yes.
Yes, Apple did the right thing.
But the information that would have disrupted that attack did not come from the phone.
It came from the game system.
Have you ever seen the Netflix series Fouda?
No.
F-A-U-D-A?
No, I haven't.
It is one of the best TV series I've ever seen in my life.
Really?
It's an Israeli series, but sure.
F-A-U-D-A.
Or F-A-W-D-A, I can't remember.
But anyway, it's an Israeli series, but it was made by a group of guys who were former
Shin Bet and former Mossad.
But it really does give you a balanced view between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
It's shocking that they were able to even make something like this.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, you're going to have sympathy for both the Israelis and the Palestinians in this.
Like, you're going to want both sides to win, which doesn't make any kind of logical sense.
But anyway, in the most recent season, there's this ongoing thing that they do where they only
communicate with each other through a backgammon app, right?
Because the Americans, the Russians, the Chinese, the Israelis, the French, the British,
everybody's intercepting everything, right?
Phones and emails and text messages and intercepting everything.
Nobody's looking at backgammon apps.
And you know, all of these game apps that we have, they all have little chat functions
when you're playing live, right?
I have a backgammon app on my phone.
I play against Lebanese and Turks and Syrians all the time.
I do, it's fun.
And you can chat.
So that's how Mossad and Shin Bet communicate with their agents,
because they know it's not going to be intercepted.
And even if it is intercepted, no human being's ever going to see it.
It's just game chat, right?
But it's not game chat.
It's very serious operational planning.
That's what the San Bernardino shooter was doing.
He was communicating over like a Wii or whatever it was, a Twitch or Switch or whatever.
I don't even know anymore.
My kids are beyond that now.
But that's the danger.
The danger is in gaming systems.
Like when it comes to the government looking into like private communications of people,
is it just like how much attention are they really paying to people?
Is it just a big catch-all?
Zero attention normally.
It's a big catch-all.
NSA built this facility in the desert in Utah, right?
And they started building it right after the 9-11 attacks.
And there's enough computer memory there to save every phone call, every text message,
and every email from every American for the next 500 years, right?
That's how much space they have, how much memory they have.
No human being is going to listen to 99.9999% of any of that stuff.
It's just being vacuumed up by these, you know, Cray computers or whatever those super
computers are called these days.
And it's being held in case someday law enforcement needs to go back to it for leads
or for information about a crime that has been committed to build a case, which is great.
Well, it's not great.
But you know, if it's not going to be used against somebody for unethical purposes,
I can understand it provided that they get a warrant.
It's not just, well, you know, we're going to collect on everybody now.
No, NSA's, first of all, federal law says NSA can't do this.
Secondly, NSA's own charter says that it can't do this.
And they're like, well, 9-11 changed everything.
Well, you know what?
Okay, then change the law.
Don't just pretend that the law doesn't exist, which is what I've been saying about torture for
20 years.
Right.
Yeah, you want to torture people.
Okay, you and I can agree to disagree on this, but you got to change the law.
You can't just pretend that the law says something that it doesn't.
Right.
Now, this sort of gets back to the story, the recent story or article that you wrote about,
what was the article about Newsweek and the Pentagon Cyber Command or not?
Newsguard.
It was Newsguard, yeah.
Yeah, Newsguard.
Yeah, Newsguard and Consortium News and what was the story there?
Yeah, so there's this organization called Newsguard that was founded a few years ago.
By two media professionals.
One was the founder of Court TV and the other is the former publisher of the Wall Street Journal.
And they decided to hire a bunch of young, recent college graduates with degrees in journalism
and have them analyze literally every independent news organization that's out there on the Internet.
Everything.
And assign a score to every one of these news organizations.
Now, the score is from zero to 100.
100 being absolutely reliable, associated press, 100, right?
To zero, which is like Alex Jones has a zero.
Right.
Okay.
So you think he's an agent?
And he's too stupid to be an agent.
Really?
He can't keep his mouth shut.
Yeah.
I know a lot of people who think he's an agent.
A useful idiot.
Oh, he might be a useful idiot.
But in terms of being like a witting agent, no, he's too stupid.
Right.
Okay.
Sorry to interrupt.
No, that's okay.
And so what they've done is they immediately politicized the process.
And when I say politicized, what I mean is they took a position on Ukraine.
They took a position on Syria.
And if you aren't in line with that position, they knock you down to below 60 percent.
Well, if you're below 60 percent, you get a warning.
Not you.
You don't get the warning.
Their subscribers get a warning saying, whoa, warning.
This website's not reliable.
It's fake news.
How do they get to their subscribers?
Yeah.
So most of their subscribers are governmental entities and most of them are in the Pentagon.
So what they do is they provide an extension on the website.
And so if I go to alexjones.com or whatever that website is, their extension will give me,
until a couple of months ago, it was either red or green.
It'll give me a red and it'll say warning.
You know, there's a little warning that comes up warning.
This is a fake news site.
Now they'll give you a numerical figure and it'll say, you know, 10 percent.
Warning.
This is a fake news site.
Okay.
But how do they determine what's fake news?
Well, what they did with consortium news, and this started a year ago,
is they sent an email to the editor-in-chief of consortium news and they said, hi, we're looking
at consortium news and you have such interesting articles on consortium news.
But we have a couple of questions that our clients would like to know the answers to.
First of all, who are the members of your board of directors?
And do you have the board of directors listed on the website?
Okay.
Yeah.
Here are the board of directors.
It's right there on the masthead.
Right.
It's easy to see and that's kind of an innocuous question.
Second, what's your policy for issuing corrections?
Okay.
Our policy is we say, hey, we realized something we said was incorrect.
Here's the correction.
Why did you say on October the 10th, 2021, that there were neo-Nazis in the Ukrainian military?
Well, because they were patches with swastikas on them
and they pledge fealty to a guy who heads the Ukrainian Nazi party.
Like nobody's saying the Ukrainian government is Nazi government.
Nobody's saying that Zelensky is a closet Nazi, but there are well identified neo-Nazis
who are members of the Ukrainian military.
It's fact.
They don't like that.
That's fake news.
Well, somebody should tell CNN because they did an entire documentary about it.
So that's fake news.
Another thing is why did you publish an article in 2016 that said that the evidence was not
clear that Bashar al-Assad used gas on his own people?
Well, because eight whistleblowers from the United Nations came out and said,
we don't believe Assad did this.
We believe al-Qaeda did it.
See, but al-Qaeda is now allied with the Pentagon because this is bizarro world that we live in now.
The Nusra Front used to be called al-Qaeda.
Now we armed them to help them overthrow the Syrian government.
But they don't like talking about that.
When did this happen?
Couple of years ago.
Okay.
Yeah.
So there are like 20,000 articles in the...
Maybe it's not 20.
Maybe it's 10,000 articles in the consortium news archives.
They objected to four because they didn't like the analytic line.
Well, as it turns out, these four were written by Christopher Hedges.
Now Chris is a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner,
lifelong journalist for the New York Times, and he was the New York Times Middle East bureau chief.
So that's the guy that you're going to accuse of spreading fake news?
A two-time Pulitzer Prize winner.
So they went after consortium.
Then they started going after others.
The Grey Zone is another one.
The Grey Zone is published by Max Blumenthal, the son of Sidney Blumenthal,
also of the New York Times, confidant of the Clintons, and Max is a cutting-edge journalist.
I don't agree with all of his positions on things, but by God, he does his research.
So he said, he's not even going to fight it.
He wears this red mark from News Guard as a badge of honor, he said on the Jimmy Dore show.
Then they went after antiwar.com, which is a libertarian kind of conservative,
it's like a Republican antiwar site, but highly respected in the independent journalism community,
went after them. Then they went after The Sheer Post.
I write for The Sheer Post, Bob Sheer is a friend of mine.
Bob Sheer spent almost 30 years at the Los Angeles Times as an investigative reporter.
He's been nominated for the Pulitzer Prize 11 times.
You're way too young to remember, you weren't born yet, but he's the one who
got presidential candidate Jimmy Carter to admit that he lusted in his heart.
He was an evangelical Christian, you can't think about other women, you're a married man,
oh my God, he lusted in his heart. It was a big scandal in 1980, seriously,
this is how far we've come.
Wow. And they decided, oh no, no, they don't like his position on Ukraine.
This is unacceptable. He's calling for peace in Ukraine. We have to stand up to the Russian
bear and Putin, you know, Putin's crazy, right? Isn't that what we always say about foreign leaders?
We don't like, they're crazy. So now they're going after The Sheer Post.
And so somebody's got to stop these guys. About a month ago, Consortium News hired a
constitutional attorney who filed a suit against NewsGuard and against the Pentagon.
Now, why the Pentagon? Because as it turns out, the only client that NewsGuard has that matters
is the Defense Department's cyber command. Well, it's not up to the cyber command.
Is that part of NSA?
It's, yes, NSA is a part of the Pentagon too. So they're all, it's all a joint leadership.
And so they're suing, saying that, first of all, this is government interference in the press.
It's a clear, direct violation of the Constitution's First Amendment. Secondly,
it's not up to NewsGuard, just like it's not up to DoD to decide what's true and what's not true
or what analytic line the American people should see or should not see.
If I don't want to read Alex Jones, I just don't read Alex Jones. It's as simple as that.
But now you've got people ruining businesses and ruining people's lives just because they
don't like your position on Ukraine. Who are some of the people that are running that company?
NewsGuard.
Their board of directors would make your hair stand up. The board is made up of people like
Michael Hayden, the former director of both the CIA and the NSA.
During 9-11, right?
During 9-11, he was the head of NSA. And then he oversaw the torture program at the CIA.
Tom Ridge, the former, the first secretary of Homeland Security,
the guy who defended before the Supreme Court international rendition, kidnapping.
Anders, what's his name? From Denmark, the former head of NATO is another one.
About a year ago, I started working with this company called Merrick Health. And I wanted to
get a comprehensive breakdown of what was going on inside my body, from my vitamin levels,
to my lipid levels, to my hormone levels, etc. Using the most elaborate and cutting-edge
testing on the market, they were able to advise me on a new diet, sleep, training,
and supplement protocol designed to maximize performance and support longevity.
I tell all my friends about Merrick Health because you simply cannot get this level of
knowledge or attention to detail from a general practitioner who sees up to 50 patients per day.
Plus insurance companies regularly deny progressive treatment options. Primary
care physicians refuse to order comprehensive lab work and standards of care lag years behind
the leading research. Merrick Health represents a paradigm shift in how we approach medicine,
empowering those who want the most out of their health care and wish to maximize their potential.
Every client who orders Merrick's optimization package receives extensive lab work. Over 84
carefully selected biomarkers to help provide detailed insights into your hormone profile,
cardiovascular health, organ function, and metabolic status. Expedited onboarding for
those interested in working with a Merrick Health medical provider for personalized treatment
options ranging from hormone optimization and cognitive enhancement to hair loss prevention
and body recomposition and all from the comfort of home. The Merrick optimization package includes
the same elaborate panel I get myself. And with those test results, that's how the Merrick Health
clinical team optimizes my personal protocol. If you want the same panel and medical oversight
that I receive, go to MerrickHealth.com forward slash Danny and use the code Danny for 10%
off at checkout. It's linked below. Now back to the show. So the whole list is people from...
So you're saying that the intelligence community... These people, these intelligence community
veterans are in charge of policing the news publications in our country. Can you imagine?
It's kind of hard to swallow. This is so obviously illegal. Yeah. So what happened with the court case?
It was just filed a month ago. I spoke with the attorney when it was filed, just because I had
some questions about the case of my own, questions of my own. And he said it could be a year,
two years before they see the inside of a courtroom. And I'll tell you, another thing that could
throw a wrench into all of this is they could just give consortium news a green, a green light.
And then consortium has no standing.
So let consortium off the hook, but it wouldn't change anything for anyone else.
Right. And then let's say the sheer post would have to sue and that would take another two years.
And then you let them off the hook and then Max Blumenthal would have to sue.
Yeah. This is a real uphill struggle.
This coming on the heels of something like the Twitter files, which we discussed last time.
Right. Right. And you know, word is still leaking out about the coming from the Twitter files.
We thought we knew all of it six, eight, 10 months ago.
What knew has come out?
That there was an FBI agent who was still working for the FBI, who was actually sitting in the
Twitter spaces. Like for what reason? Like on headquarters?
That's terrifying. What was he doing there? Right.
Where does all, where, like, it's so scary to think about this. Like we were saying before,
it's like David versus Goliath. How can anyone, even like, not, I'm not even talking like, I
told you the story about my friend Jack Murphy, who wrote the story for one of the big publications
about the NATO people who are pulling off operations in Russia. And then the deputy director
Kibosh the story at the end of it, right? Right.
They published it. So when you have, like, I'm not even, like,
obviously the big publications are playing ball, right? But how can any smaller publication,
or even an independent journalist like myself or like yourself, how can we have a snowball
chance in hell to, to publish real journalism in a world like that? And where does it go in 10 years?
Yeah, man. There's no easy answer to that. I'm going to draw an analogy to answer your,
your question. There's a peace group in Washington that's very active called Code Pink.
And they disrupt congressional hearings a lot. And they always get on the news. And it's just an
absolutely wonderful group of women, a couple of men, mostly women, just wonderful people.
And it's, it's head, also one of its co-founders, is a woman by the name of Medea Benjamin.
Medea can't even be five feet tall. And if she weighs more than 90 pounds, I'd be shocked.
And she goes nose to nose with some of the biggest, baddest people in the world.
The Egyptian police broke her arm and shoulder once, manhandling her. She's been arrested.
What's her name again?
Medea Benjamin.
Can you pull her up, Steve?
Uh, Medea has been arrested. Well, I asked her two years ago how many times she'd been arrested.
And she said she thought she'd been arrested 185 times. She's fearless. There she is. She is
absolutely fearless. And whenever I doubt my ability to make change, I think of her.
Because is she changing minds by disrupting the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing?
Probably not. Maybe she is. But if she disrupts it 10 times or a hundred times,
I'll tell you another story. When I was the, the chief investigator on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, we were doing a hearing once and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff was testifying. So I was sitting immediately behind John Kerry. He was the chairman of the
committee. So if he needed anything, he could just turn his head and tell me, you know, get me a map
of, you know, Somalia, which is one of the things he said that day. So, um, so I'm sitting right
behind him and he turns around and he says, John, you see these people in pink t-shirts in the front
row? I said, yeah. He said, they're going to disrupt the hearing. Ask the cop to throw them out.
Well, I'd never heard of Code Pink. So I got up, I went through the anti-room. I went all the way
around to the back of the hearing room. I went to the cop and I said, the chairman wants you to
throw these, these women out because they're going to disrupt the hearing. So he comes up and he says,
you have to leave and he throws them out. It was perfectly peaceful. Well, there were like eight more
that we, we couldn't see had pink t-shirts on under their jackets. So they got up and one of
them shouted, no blood for oil. And she threw a hundred one dollar bills at, at the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs and he just kind of fluttered down and he just sat there like a statue and,
and you know, they were dragged out shouting, no blood for oil. I was smiling because I thought,
wow, that was really ballsy. I had never, and they're all like in their 60s, 70s and 80s,
not all of them, but many of them. I thought, wow, that was really ballsy. The chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff and they throw, like, like it's a, you know, two rappers going at it in a
club where they throw money at each other for disrespect. Like throwing it at a stripper.
Yeah. So I'm smiling as I'm watching all this and Kerry turns around and he says,
you think that's funny? And I said, I caught myself. I said, I think it's gutsy. And he says,
keep your opinions to yourself. So when the hearing was over, he got up and walked out
and I'm kind of cleaning up all the papers and stuff. And Senator Jean Shaheen from New Hampshire
came up to me and she says, John, did you throw those women out? And I said, I did. She says,
why? I said, the chairman told me to. And he said, she says, well, I'm from New Hampshire.
And in New Hampshire, we say, live free or die. Learn some respect. Well, now,
Code Pink, they're my closest friends. I go to all their marches, all their events,
fundraising, you know, whatever. These women do incredible work. And that's where I take my cue
from that we can't stop fighting. Right? Yes, it's a David and Goliath thing, like we've both said.
And maybe the change is going to be incremental or maybe there won't be any change at all.
But there's certainly going to be no change if you just sit home and say, wow,
I wish I could change the system, but I can't. So I guess I'll just watch TV.
No, you got to be out there fighting. And in my case, fighting means writing or broadcasting
or marching or speaking at universities, which I do a lot of. You got to keep up the fight. It's
the only way you can, you can, you know, make sure that these people are called on the carpet for
the crimes that they're committing. And that's what's happening here. They're committing crimes
against the American people. I'll give you another example. You know, there's this family out west.
So in 2017, there was a standoff in, in Oregon. It was this family called the Bundy family.
Okay. And the Bunnies were actually from Nevada. And they're constantly fighting the federal
government because they graze their cattle on federal lands and they don't pay. Okay. Right.
You have to pay the government because their point is, look, it's federal land, which means
it belongs to all the American people and it wasn't up to the government to seize it in the first
place. So we're not paying. And so they're constantly getting arrested and prosecuted.
And then one of the sons of Clive Bundy led the takeover of the visitor's center at a park in
Oregon. And the FBI was sent and there's a standoff. Is that them on horseback right there?
Yeah, that's them. Make that big, Steve. Oh, holy crap. Yeah, that's them. Okay. So the convention
and wisdom is like, these Bunnies are nuts. They're right-wing extremists. They're freaks.
But you know what? Even if that's true, they're right. And they were acquitted in federal court.
They were acquitted. Wow. Yeah. I love that. I love that their pseudonym is BLM.
Yeah. Funny, right? And it says, how could a scoff law like Bundy who owes more than a million
dollars in grazing fees backed by hundreds of armed zealots managed to run off federal officials
who were clearly in the right for seizing Bundy's cows? God. Yeah. You see, this is what everybody's
up against. That's crazy, man. So you just have to fight for what you believe in. It's really as
simple as that. Yeah. I mean, like, so when you are doing your research and you're like
researching news stories that you're going to talk about, things that are happening in the news,
where do you get your information? Oh, yeah, everywhere. Listen, I get up at six o'clock in
the morning just so I can read, like, everything. You have to read the mainstream media because
you have to know what the government is saying, right? So I read every morning, The New York Times,
The Washington Post, The LA Times, The Wall Street Journal. Then I go to CNN, Fox, MSNBC. Then I do
Drudge. On the right, I do Drudge and Gateway Pundit and Daily Caller. And then I go to the
left and I read Raw Story. And then I do Independence Consortium News, Sheer Post,
Reader Supported News. Wow. There's so many of them. The gray zone.
Just to get a different angles on the stories. Yeah. And I like to think that I'm smart enough
that I know what's, what's, you know, what sounds right and what doesn't sound right.
Some people will say, like, you know, they'll just say something outrageous and be 100 percent
certain in their assertion. And you just know, because you've been doing this for a long time,
you know that that's just not right. It's just, it's false or there's a problem with the analysis.
So, you know, this is what they taught us to do at the agency. Ironically, when I started off as
an analyst in January of 1990, you read absolutely everything because after a while you become such
an expert that you can separate the wheat from the chaff. So at the CIA, I'm going to read
cables coming from CIA operations officers overseas, from American embassies and State
Department officers working in those embassies, from, they're called DODIRs, Department of Defense
Intelligence Reports from Defense Attachés around the world, intercepts from NSA, just pulling stuff
out of the air. But then I'm also going to read the press. Now, much of the global media is shit.
That's just a fact of life, right? Read the Pakistani media, for example, and try to find
one true thing in it. Good luck. But you will have read so much from so many different places
that you'll know what's true and what's not true. And I find that to be the case with the American
media. You can figure it out. Interesting. There are a couple that, just a couple of sites that
I'd say are really exceptional. The Associated Press and ProPublica. ProPublica?
Yeah. Most journalism outlets in the United States no longer do investigative journalism.
Because it's too expensive. It takes too long, right?
It takes too long. You're going to dedicate a journalist or two to a story that's not going
to be published for three months, right? So this journalist is going to write four or five pieces
a year and you're going to pay them $150,000. So most everybody's phased it out.
What ProPublica did then was they set themselves up as a non-profit solely to carry out investigative
reporting. And so they'll have pieces that are utterly disparate. They'll do a piece on
solitary confinement. And then they'll do a piece on price fixing in the egg industry,
right? And then they'll do a piece on the falling education scores in the state of Kansas.
Stuff that nobody else is going to cover because they don't have the money to do it anymore.
Right. And when you're doing it like that, when you're doing these stories that take a long time
to cover, it's hard to be relevant to stories that are happening now.
Exactly. That's right.
I'm curious when people do work on those types of stories with four big publications, right?
For like my friend, Jack, who I was telling you about, who was writing that story for a year.
And they come to a big publication with this story and they say, hey, I have 12 sources.
Six of them are former CIA officers, other guys are former Army Rangers, whatever that might be.
When they go and present their story, obviously they provide who their sources are,
but does the editor of that publication by himself go and vet all these sources?
They usually have a fact-checking staff who will call the sources and say,
is it true that you said that 75% of X is Y? Is it true that in 1996 you were making $35,000?
Everything that they're ascribing to you, the fact-checker is going to make sure that it's
correct. And do they not only fact-check the statements, do they also go and check these
people's background and credentials and make sure they are who they say they are?
They're supposed to. Organizations have been burned. When I first started appearing on Fox
News, I ran into a guy in the green room and he was supposed to be this big CIA, deep cover,
Black Ops. And he's talking about Black Ops and wet work and I'm like, we don't use those terms.
They do in the movies, right? So I said, so what director are you in? He said,
I'm in Ops, I'm in Black Ops. And I said, what's your division? I can't say. Okay,
bullshit, number one. Secondly, nobody says Black Ops. And if you call it The Company,
I'm going to punch you in the face, right? So I said to the producer after I went on,
I said, this guy that you had on before me, I think he's faking it. And she's like, what? Why?
And I said, he doesn't know the lingo and he wouldn't tell me what division he was in.
And that's like the first, your first brag is what your division was. You know,
I was Special Activities Division. I was Counterterrorism Center. I was Near East Operations,
whatever. And she's like, okay, I'll look into it. And they did. And he made the whole thing up.
He had never been in the agency. He had never been anywhere. He had never been in the military,
nothing. He just made the whole thing up. And he would go on Fox and he would talk with authority.
And he ended up going to prison. He's probably still in prison because, you know, once you start
peeling that onion, it's not just that he lied to Fox. He lied to the bank to get a mortgage
saying he's a, I can't talk about it, but I'm a Black Ops special wet work, deep, deep cover.
You guys really don't, you guys don't use the word wet works.
No, nobody does. So dumb. No.
I had Rick Prado in here. He said the same thing.
You know, Rick Prado, he was the guy who was down in Iran Contra.
Yeah, I sure do. I sure do.
Nicaragua.
His wife doesn't like me.
Oh, really?
I wrote a review of Rick's book.
Oh, really?
Yeah, she took exception to it.
I think I have it back here. I think I have it on the shelf somewhere.
Annie Jacobson wrote a book. I'm sure you're familiar with that one.
When she wrote what's called Surprise Kill Vanish, all about Billy Waugh.
Billy was a giant. You and I have talked about Billy Waugh.
Have we?
Haven't we?
Maybe we have. I'm sure we have.
Billy was a great friend.
Billy was a great friend.
He lived like 20 minutes from here.
Yeah, he was in, like, Niceville, I think it's called.
Yeah, yeah, right. It was really close to Tampa.
Niceville, yeah.
And I used to make fun of the name of the town.
Oh, did you? Okay.
Yeah, that's funny.
Billy and I did a lot of stuff together.
Really?
Uh-huh.
So him and Rick worked together.
Oh, for years, for years, they were joined at the hip.
Yeah.
Billy was one of the most awesome people I ever met at the CIA.
How did you meet him?
He and I did a thing together in, I'm going to say, the Middle East.
It was a couple of months before 9-11.
I'll tell you a funny thing.
Billy.
Billy had the filthiest mouth of anybody I've ever encountered in my life.
He was just unable to control his, his swearing.
And when you're in the Middle East, you know, these guys are all pious Muslims.
They're, they're all cool guys.
And they want to hang out and maybe, maybe they'll have a little, you know,
glass of wine once in a while, probably not.
But swearing, absolutely forbidden.
So we flew out together to train this Middle Eastern service in counterterrorism operations.
We were out there for probably a month and a half or two months.
And Billy was the lead, he was the lead lecturer.
And then I would get up for, you know, specific questions.
And I was kind of the logistics guy.
And, and I taught the surveillance and surveillance detection portion.
So the colonel that was in charge of this unit finally came up to me and he said,
we're friends.
And I said, yes, we are, what can I do?
And he said, you've got to talk to Billy.
And I said, okay, about what?
And he said, please, no more MF, no more GD.
I'm going to have a heart attack.
And I said, I honestly don't know if it's possible
for him to not say those words.
I'll try.
So I asked him and he's like, no can do, can't do it.
And so he just swore like a sailor for the rest of the time.
They loved him.
He was, everybody loved him, but he just couldn't control himself.
Funny thing too, he used to listen.
He used to drive this gigantic Cadillac.
And when we were overseas, he rented a Cadillac.
I'm like, how did you even find a Cadillac in this country?
Yeah, that's weird.
And he would play this one cassette tape over and over.
It was Roger Williams with a piano and the deep baritone, big Liberace kind of.
He just loved that stuff.
I think I told you the story about Carlos the Jackal and Billy, didn't I?
I know that he, he was the one who captured him, right?
Yeah, it's one of the most exciting stories I ever heard at the agency.
You know, Billy had a tendency to embellish his stories, not this one.
Really?
Yeah, this one was well documented.
How did that one go down?
Billy was in Sudan working for Kofa Black.
Kofa Black was the, no, he was us.
Oh, he was the senior.
The term of art we're supposed to use is the senior CIA officer in country.
The CIA does not acknowledge any such thing as a station.
So whenever we talk about working overseas,
that person was the senior CIA officer in country.
Okay.
Okay.
So Billy's off one day.
Yeah, you said Kofa Black for some reason, my brain thought Louis-free.
I don't know why.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay.
Um, he's off one day and he decides to go down to the vegetable market
and buy some, some vegetables for the week.
He goes down with a buddy of his, also from the embassy.
And, you know, they're the only two white guys in, in cartoon, they think.
So they're in the vegetable market and Billy looks and he's looking at this guy
and he says to his friend, that's Carlos the jackal.
And the guy's like, what?
No, it's not.
And Billy said, yeah, that's Carlos the jackal.
No, I don't think so, Billy.
Billy said, I'm sure it is.
They go back to the embassy.
Kofa's in his office on a, what do you call this?
Elliptical machine.
Elliptical machine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's on elliptical machine.
And Billy walks in, he says, Kofa, I just saw Carlos the jackal.
Kofa says, get the fuck out of here.
He said, no, I'm telling you.
I was in the vegetable market and I saw him and I'm sure it's him.
And he's like, well, I think you're nuts, but if it's Carlos the jackal,
we're going to have to confirm it.
How old was Billy at this time?
Oh, he was in his 70s.
Okay.
Yeah.
Maniac.
Late 60s, maybe.
Wow.
Yeah.
Incredibly great shape.
After having been shot more than a dozen times over the course of three wars.
So he went back down to that vegetable market every single day for a month.
And then they saw Carlos again.
So what they decided to do was they hired a couple of Sudanese guys to stage a fistfight.
In, in Muslim countries, it's very, very unusual for you to ever witness physical
violence between people.
People don't, like, you know, we have videos on YouTube of Karens.
They load a thousand new ones every day in the Middle East.
No, people don't do things like that.
So they hired these two Sudanese guys that were just down there in the market.
You know, you give them 10 bucks a piece and just tell them, duke it out.
So they duke it out.
And of course, everybody forms a circle around them because this is so unusual.
And Carlos comes to the circle to watch the fight.
And he's like craning his neck to try to get a better view.
And Billy's got a camera.
Click, click, click, click, click, click.
So he goes back to the embassy.
They send the pictures to CIA headquarters and they say, oh my god, it's Carlos the jackal.
Well, Billy had followed him back to his house.
So they knew where he lived.
And what they ended up doing, I'm not sure how much detail I should get in.
They ended up, Carlos had a dental problem.
And so what you do is you get the dentist to say, hey, time for a checkup.
Why don't you come on in?
And then you give him gas.
And then when he wakes up, he's on a plane on his way to France.
Oh my god.
Wow.
Yeah.
That was Billy.
Hero with capital letters.
Hero.
Didn't even have to touch the guy.
No.
Just got to his dentist.
Yeah, that's it.
That's incredible.
Sometimes the best operations are the simplest.
That's, um, so like Billy, I think, I don't remember who told me.
I think Rick told me the story.
But is it true that Billy was in either cartoon?
I think it was cartoon.
And he was literally following Bin Laden and taking photos of him for a long time.
That's true too.
The problem there was, um, the Clinton administration wouldn't do anything about it.
Right.
He was like, he wanted to take him out, but they wouldn't let him.
There were no criminal charges pending against him.
Yeah.
And that's because DOJ dropped the ball.
The CIA had been telling the Justice Department in the White House since 1991,
this is a very bad guy.
He means us harm.
We need to do something about it.
And they're like, oh yeah, well, we have to wait until he
actually commits a crime against an American.
And then we'll go to court and we'll file charges.
And then 10 years later, we have 9-11.
It's like, what have you people been doing for the last 10 years?
Now today, the CIA would send a team and they would take them out.
They would today.
Today, yes.
Because post 9-11, there was a revision of executive order one, two, three, three.
You're saying post 9-11, they would do that.
Post 9-11.
Got it, got it.
But in the 90s, you know, one, two, three, three, three said, oh no, you don't.
Yeah, times have changed.
I love Trump's speech.
It was probably my favorite speech he's ever done where he walks out in front.
Alback, daddy.
He died like a loser.
The dogs came in and tore him apart.
It was a terrible death.
Oh my God.
I forgot about that.
He sat up there and freestyled for like 30 minutes about how much of a loser he was and
how bad he died.
And he was just like, oh God, that was a sight.
That was amazing to watch.
So was that the reason that they got him?
Was that like the same thing you were talking about, the same law that they would have used
to have in Lawton?
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah, once 9-11 occurred, it was two, three, four days after 9-11, President Bush signed
an executive order that altered executive order one, two, three, three, three,
which had been signed back in the 70s that said, among other things, it's a very long,
extensive executive order that the CIA just can't assassinate people.
And now they can.
Wow.
How much of that is going on right now?
Like you think, like when I think of the CIA, like some people that have been here,
they just say, oh, well, it's, you know, it's all boring.
It's all, you know.
A lot of it is.
A lot of it's just.
Hurry up and wait.
Analytics and analysis, following people, you know, taking down intel and then it goes
through the funnel.
But like how much of it in today's world is actually like capture kill or like.
I would say very, very little.
Really?
Very little.
This is an unusual rare occurrence.
Now they were doing it a lot in the immediate aftermath of 9-11 because we had so many people
that needed to be taken off the street, whether you're going to capture them,
render them to a third country or kill them.
You know, you think the entire Al Qaeda leadership, for example.
And then ISIS came out of that because Al Qaeda wasn't violent enough.
ISIS was created.
And then you have the Somalis and then you have the, the Libyans and then you've got
Humbali down in Indonesia or Malaysia or wherever it was that he was.
So there were a lot of moving parts back then.
And now not so much anymore.
Also think of it this way.
It was a very big deal 20 years ago to use a drone, right?
If we send a drone up to do something, we're all gathered around a screen at CIA headquarters
to ooh and ah over what the drone is doing.
Now we have a thousand drones a day out there.
We don't even pay any attention what the drones are doing.
That's the, like, so all the drones and the, I just did a podcast about this.
So I know I have some, some decent knowledge about the, the surveillance that goes on around
the world, but we have these surveillance drones as well as these satellites that are
literally everywhere and that signals intelligence.
So we can like happen to anywhere we want anywhere in now or in the past, right?
Right.
And let me, let me give you another example of how times have changed when Iraq invaded
Kuwait on August the 2nd, 1990.
We made a decision.
The White House made a decision that day.
We're going to liberate Kuwait.
Okay.
It's not, there was no hemming and hawing.
We're going to go to the UN and we're going to see what we can do.
We're going to have negotiations.
President George H. W. Bush said on August the 2nd, we're going to liberate Kuwait.
So what took us so long?
Why did we wait until February of 1991?
Because that's how long it took to move the satellite that was over the Soviet Union
to put it over Iraq.
What?
Can you imagine?
And we're all like patiently waiting.
Where's the satellite today?
Oh, it's over Turkmenistan.
It's on its way.
Why did it take so long for a satellite to get there?
Because that's how long it took in 1990.
Jesus.
They move like 17,000 miles an hour now.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
And in the meantime, they're everywhere.
They're everywhere.
The whole globe is covered and now they're not even classified.
Now you can buy, you know, Google Earth images.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Back then it was so highly classified.
We couldn't even acknowledge that there were such things as satellites.
We were watching a video a couple weeks ago on here of a company called,
I want to say it was, I forget what it was called,
but it was a company that was basically a sub company of Lockheed Martin.
And they were, it was like a product promo of their satellite system that they have,
where they showed all these satellites that are surrounding every fucking section of the earth 24-7.
And it was frightening.
I was like, if you want to give anyone skits, induce schizophrenia in anybody,
just get them stoned and show them that video.
And it's like you're being watched 24 hours a day by an eye in the sky.
It was frightening.
You know, 20 years ago or so, there was a Will Smith movie.
I don't remember what it was, like Enemy of the State maybe or something like that,
where, where he's running through Georgetown in Washington and he's chasing some guy and he's
on the, he's on the radio with NSA and he's like, I need live video feed stat.
And I was at the movie with a bunch of CIA people and we all busted out laughing.
Like, what do you mean live video feed?
What planet do you live on?
And now, you know, now it's real.
Now it's real.
And this is only what, 15 years later.
That's it.
That's wild, man.
So I want to talk a little bit about the Russia-Ukraine NATO thing,
conflict that's going on right now.
But first, I got to pee real quick.
Sure.
We'll jump right back in.
Sounds good.
I got a tiny bladder.
I'm sorry.
Not a problem.
This holiday season, you might be looking for some delicious nutritional meals to fuel you
on those jam-packed days.
Factor, America's number one ready-to-eat meal delivery service,
can help you eat well for breakfast, lunch, and dinner with chef-prepared,
dietitian-approved, ready-to-eat meals delivered straight to your door.
You'll save time and stay on track with your healthy lifestyle while tackling all those
holiday to dos.
You can cross meal prep off your holiday list this season with Factor.
Skip the planning, the grocery shopping, the cooking, chopping, cleaning, and get Factor's
fresh, never-frozen meals delivered straight to your door.
Treat yourself to high-quality, delicious meals over the holidays.
Choose from 35-plus chef-crafted meals every week that support a healthy lifestyle and
meet your meal preferences, whether it's calorie smart, vegan, and veggie,
protein plus, and more wholesome options.
And Factor isn't just dinner.
You can count on convenience any time of the day with an assortment of 55-plus add-on
to suit various preferences and tastes.
Choose from quick breakfast items, lunch to go, grab-and-go snacks,
and ready-to-drink cold-pressed juices, shakes, and smoothies.
This December, get Factor and enjoy eating well without the hassle.
Simply choose your meals and enjoy fresh, flavor-packed meals delivered right to your door.
Ready in just two minutes.
No prep, no mess.
Head to factormeals.com forward slash djp50 and use the code djp50 to get 50% off.
That's code djp50 at factormeals.com forward slash djp50 for 50% off.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
Yeah, we were just off camera after the pee break telling the story about how when you
captured Abu Zubaydah and he woke up from his coma and saw the SpongeBob shirt,
he knew the Americans had him.
He knew the Americans had him all right.
That was an incredible story.
And then, so I remember you took him to the tarmac, they had to put him on a plane,
and you didn't have a need to know, you wanted to know where he was going,
but they couldn't tell you and you found out later he was in Guantanamo.
No, I found out years later he was in Guantanamo.
He ended up going to a series of secret prisons around the world.
Somebody, I don't know who, there's an officer who's been accused of it,
but she was never prosecuted, but somebody leaked the existence of these secret prisons
back in, I'm going to say it was like 2006 or 2007.
The media have reported
accurately on the locations of these prisons.
These are, are these also black sites?
Yes, also called black sites.
The CIA has never acknowledged their locations.
So I can't say, oh the prison was here, the black site was there, I can't say it,
but all you have to do is Google CIA black sites, it lists them.
There have been multiple lawsuits coming out of this program.
And in many cases, and this was always fascinating to me,
these secret prisons or black sites tended to be handshake agreements between the director of
the CIA and the director of whatever foreign service, foreign intelligence service.
In many of these cases, even the prime minister or president of the country didn't know that
there was a CIA black site in his country.
Isn't that amazing?
That's wild.
Talk about the potential for blowback.
Right.
Just, you know, if I were the prime minister or president of a country and I found this out,
I would call the president of the United States and say, who do you think you are?
You don't even have the courtesy to tell me that you want to use my country
for one of your torture chambers?
And in several cases, this led to the collapse of these governments.
You know?
Really?
Kind of president or you, that you don't even know there's a CIA black site in your country?
Right.
The Americans played you like a fool.
Yeah.
So it was very controversial at the time.
So when you captured Abu Zubaydah and he got shot three times in the stomach,
the leg and the groin, that whole story about the hospital being going under a barrage of gunfire
and calling in a helicopter to get you guys out of there.
Like, how many years has it been since you captured him?
Almost 22.
22.
And he was, do you remember how old he was?
Yeah.
To the best of my recollection, he was like 25 or 27, something like that.
He was very young.
I remember being struck by his youth.
I was young at the time.
I was 30, let me think, what was I?
I was 37.
Oh, wow.
And I remember thinking, wow, this is Al Qaeda.
This is what we're so afraid of, you know?
He's just a young guy, one of the most wanted men in the world.
And that was probably one of the, one of the most defining moments of your career in the CIA.
Oh, it was.
It was the defining event of my life, really.
What would you say to him if you got to meet him again?
And do you think there's a possibility?
Would you ever want to go like have a meeting with him in Guantanamo and talk to him?
Yeah, I'd like to.
I've spoken to his attorney many times.
You know, this is the reason why I'm still talking about this 22 years later.
We believed at the time that Abu Zubaydah was the number three in Al Qaeda, right?
He was identified by, to us, by the White House as the number three in Al Qaeda.
He was identified in Time Magazine, which was a major publication at the time
as the number three in Al Qaeda.
We knew that he had founded Al Qaeda's safe house in Peshawar, Pakistan called the House of Martyrs.
And that's where people would stay as they were preparing to go to Afghanistan
for training, terrorist training.
Not only did he establish the House of Martyrs, he also established Al Qaeda's two training camps
in southern Afghanistan in Helmand province and in Kandahar.
So we knew this was a bad guy.
If you were already in the fight and you wanted to go home,
Abu Zubaydah would would forge a passport and get you tickets home.
If you wanted to join the fight, he would get you to the House of Martyrs
and then into Afghanistan.
And then from Afghanistan, he would get you to wherever it was you were supposed to go.
So this was a bad guy, but he was not the number three in Al Qaeda.
No.
No.
He had never joined Al Qaeda.
He talked about it, but he had never sworn an oath to Osama bin Laden.
So he was viewed by bin Laden and by the Al Qaeda leadership as an independent,
sort of a friendly independent.
Like a guy like that bin Laden wouldn't give him a wink and a nod of approval.
Right.
Okay.
Now, the bigger problem for us at the CIA, and we didn't know this until 2005,
was that Abu Zubaydah had a first cousin who was also named Abu Zubaydah.
And so that Abu Zubaydah was in Montana.
And then when 911 hit, he said, oh, shit, I got to get out of here.
And he ran to Jordan.
So our sister agencies are picking up intelligence here, there and everywhere,
out of the air, out of the sky.
Abu Zubaydah is in Amman.
He's doing this.
Abu Zubaydah is in Pakistan.
He's doing that.
Abu Zubaydah is in Afghanistan.
Abu Zubaydah is in Syria.
It's like, oh my God, this is a terrorist superman.
Right.
But it was two of them.
Two of them.
We didn't know.
And so we thought, well, if, if he's able to move from country to country,
and he's plotting all these different operations, we got to stop this guy.
We know that bin Laden's number one, we know that I'm in his wife.
He is number two.
Muhammad Atif was number three.
We killed him in October of 01.
So that means Abu Zubaydah must be the number three, right?
Because he's out doing all this different stuff.
Right.
And it turned out he wasn't actually.
So, you know, this, this is what makes this a sad story.
And this is why I would be willing to talk to Abu Zubaydah.
And this is why I am willing to talk to his attorney.
Because first of all, he was not the terrorist superman we thought he was.
He was a bad guy.
So if he was a bad guy, he should have been charged with a crime and put on trial
as the constitution says that he should.
And he should face his accusers in a court of law.
Well, we know from the Senate torture report that the CIA will never permit him
to be charged in a court of law.
And in fact, the torture report tells us that the CIA has made a policy decision
that Abu Zubaydah will never leave Guantanamo ever.
And when he does die eventually, he'll be cremated and his ashes thrown into the Caribbean.
So remember, this is a guy who has never been charged with a crime.
So why, right, hold him, right?
What is their reasoning or what is their explanation for that?
They fucked it up and they can't let any more get out into the public.
Kiriaka was bad enough blabbing that, you know, we tortured him.
But then the Senate torture report actually lays it all out,
blow by blow by blow, what they did to him.
And then if we release him, what he's going to be on every TV channel in the world
talking about the torture that he underwent at the hands of the Americans.
The CIA can't allow that.
What would you say to him?
I would say that I'm sorry for the way he's been treated.
Nobody deserves to be treated this way.
If he was the killer that we said he was, he should have been tried
and convicted and punished accordingly.
If he was not the killer that we said he was, he should be released.
What is going on with the other guy at Guantanamo
who was in charge with orchestrating everything?
That's a different case.
That is Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
Yes, that's right.
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is the, he is the earthly incarnation of Satan.
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is a perplexing character
because, you know, he was an exchange student here.
He went to, he went to some state university in North Carolina,
lived with an American family.
He's utterly Americanized, but he self-radicalized
when he went back to the Middle East or to Pakistan.
He devoted many, many years to hatching plans or plots
to kill as many Americans as he possibly could.
Well before 9-11, there's something you and I have discussed in the past
called the Bojinka plot.
So the Bojinka plot was an idea that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed came up with
in the Philippines to hijack, it was something like 7, 10, 747s
and to fly them all into buildings up and down the west coast of the United States.
He actually had a chance of that plot working.
And he had all these papers laid out, maps, drawings, notes and he left his apartment
and housekeeping went in to the apartment, to clean the apartment.
And the housekeeper is looking at this like, what the heck is all this stuff?
I better call the police.
She calls the police.
They said, this looks like the plans for a terrorist attack.
And so they set out to look for him.
They didn't know his name.
They only knew him by the name Muhtar, which I think you and I have talked about in the past.
But he escaped.
He escaped from Manila.
So we knew that there was this very bad dude out there known as Muhtar who was plotting
this massive terrorist attack that would take place on the west coast.
So we knew that Muhtar was involved in the planning for 9-11.
As it turned out, 9-11 was completely his idea.
But we didn't know who he was.
We didn't know what his real name was.
And that was one of the two most important things that Abu Zubayr gave us in his FBI interviews.
Yeah.
He actually laughed at the FBI agent, Ali Soufan, when Ali said we didn't know who Muhtar was.
He's like, how can you not know who Muhtar was?
He's the most dangerous man in the world.
And he said, we don't know.
Oh, it's Khaled Sheikh Mohammed.
Was he the guy who was in the apartment that apparently there was some Saudi intelligence
that were tracking him or knew about him that they didn't tell us about?
Yes, that was one of the side stories to this.
There's a book by, to the best of my recollection, it was a couple of journalists
from the Los Angeles Times.
And they said that the CIA had a human source that led them to Khaled Sheikh Mohammed.
I was already working on Iraq at the time, so I wasn't involved in this thing.
But it was a human source.
It was not an intercept and it was not a foreign service that led us to Khaled Sheikh Mohammed.
And the human source was Saudi?
I don't have any idea.
The Saudis, listen, you can't trust the Saudis as far as you could pick one of them up and throw
them. And this is a beef that I've had with the Saudi government and the Saudi royal family,
really all of my adult life.
We profess to have this special relationship with the Saudis and they profess a special
relationship with us. It's just not true. We don't like each other. We don't trust each other.
But we buy their oil and they buy our weapons. It's as simple as that. It's transactional.
When we captured of Zubeda, we also captured his diary or what's known as his diary.
It's not really a diary, but you and I have talked about that as well.
Well, in this diary, he also had the names and cell phone numbers of two members of the Saudi
royal family. And then when we approached the Saudis and we asked them, what's this all about?
Next thing you know, one of them goes into the desert to go camping and he dies of thirst.
Can you imagine? He dies of thirst. The other one was killed in a spectacular one car accident
in the desert. Oh my God.
Uh-huh. It's like, it's so crazy. It's like the, at the level of these nations, right? Like you
have all these different levels of society and at the very, very top you have the nation states.
And above that, there's nothing. It's like lawless. It's the wild, wild west. When you're looking at
America, Saudi Arabia, Iran, it's Russia, China. It's like, it's anarchy.
Yeah, it is. It's anarchy. That's why I lament the death of, of modern diplomacy.
You know, because I think that as a matter of national policy, we should always just let
the diplomats do their job. Not send carrier battle groups, you know, here and there and everywhere
and with threats of, you know, you know, why I oughta, that kind of thing. Did you better not cross
this line or you're going to get it? Right, right, right. No. We should let the diplomats do their
jobs. And this whole thing about, you know, getting back to, to Ukraine for a moment. Yes,
yes. I wanted to go into that. This whole thing about, oh, that evil Putin. He's crazy. He just
invaded out of the clear blue sky. Like, are you joking? Like, does nobody know the history
of U.S. involvement in, in Ukraine? Right. The, the Maidan uprising and
Orange Revolution. The Orange Revolution and, and Hillary Clinton
involved in, in changing governments and like, does nobody pay attention to these things?
So this is, you know. Have you ever met Putin? No, but I'll tell you a funny story about that.
I was invited to a dinner in Moscow to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the founding of RT Russia
today, the big television network. And they sent me, it was actually an engraved, it's the first
time in my life I ever received an engraved invitation, right? Like from, like it's the 50s.
And all expenses paid, they're going to fly me to Moscow and they're going to put me in this hotel
and I'm going to be at this VIP table of Americans. And so I had just gotten out of prison.
So I went to the judge and I said, hey, I'm invited to this really important dinner in Moscow.
And she says, absolutely not. So I wasn't allowed to go. Well, my first question, once I get out
of prison for a muscle blowing, it's the CIA. To go to Moscow. So this was the dinner where
uh, General Flynn went, Mike Flynn and Jesse Ventura and Jill Stein and Mike Maloof and all
these like important outsiders all sitting at the same table and then Putin walks in and sits down
and shakes hands and they all get a big picture together and then Putin leaves. So at first I
was like, damn it. It's like the only chance in my life I would ever have to meet Vladimir Putin.
And then afterwards, you know, they arrest Mike Flynn. They open a grand jury on some of these
other guys. They called Jill Stein a traitor. I'm so glad I didn't go to that dinner. Oh my
God, I have enough problems in my life. Do you think Putin wants to ever wanted to or currently
wants to conquer Ukraine and Eastern Europe? Oh no, I've never thought that. You know, looking back
to going back to the Clinton administration, when when Putin first became president at the very tail
end of Bill Clinton's presidency, he floated the idea of Russia joining NATO. And Clinton said,
yeah, I don't think we really like that. Russia? Yeah, Russia joining NATO. Because the Soviet Union
is gone. We're all friends now, right? The peace dividend. We're always talking about how are we
going to spend the peace dividend? We don't need to spend money on defense anymore. Right. Hardy hard
hard. So Clinton's like, we don't really like that idea very much. And he said, okay, if you
won't let Russia and NATO, at least don't allow any of the countries on our border to join NATO.
And Clinton said that we can agree to. Next thing you know, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, and Poland
all join NATO directly on the Russian border. And he's like, hey, you promised us that you
wouldn't let any of these countries join NATO. Sorry, we changed our minds. Right. Strategic
planning and all. Then when Obama becomes president at a summit with Putin, Putin said,
I spoke with Clinton years ago about Russia joining NATO. It's something that we would like to explore.
Who said this again? Putin. Putin. To Obama. And Obama said, no, we don't like that idea.
We don't think that's going to happen. And he said, okay, well, you guys lied to me
about these other countries joining NATO. So don't allow Ukraine to join NATO. This is going
to be a serious problem otherwise. And he's like, okay, okay, we won't. And then
Joe Biden becomes president and he's like, oh, you know, Ukraine would be a great addition to NATO
and the European Union. And the Russians said, we've had enough. There was a pro-Russian
government in Ukraine that was overthrown at the urge of the United States in 2014.
As if that wasn't bad enough, as soon as that happens, then they want to talk about Ukraine
joining NATO. So the Russians said, we've had enough. That's the background to Ukraine. I don't
think that the Russians have any, I don't think that they're expansionist as a matter of policy.
They have a history of expansionism, certainly, just like we do. The Chinese do not. But we do,
and the Russians do. But we don't expand that way, right? We expand in a weird way of just gaining
influence over the country. We don't make them party. We don't, like America is not a traditional
empire, like you look at the British Empire, right? We just have these other countries that
depend on us and we basically control that. We have all the influence in those countries.
Yeah, but then the Libyans would say that's wrong and the Afghans would say that's wrong.
And the Chinese would say that's wrong because of what we're doing with Taiwan now.
It's wrong and it's wrong that we do it or it's not true.
Well, it's not true. Look at Libya just as the easiest example.
Um, Steve Kappas, who was the deputy director of the CIA, made a made a secret at the time,
not secret anymore trip to Libya in the immediate aftermath of the start of the Iraq war. And he
said, look, said, I'm saying has weapons of mass destruction. He's going to die.
We know that you have weapons of mass destruction. So you can either give them all to us and we all
live happily ever after, or you can die. I'm paraphrasing, of course. And so
for only the second time in the history of the planet with South Africa being the first,
Libya voluntarily gave up its weapons of mass destruction program.
And then we overthrew them anyway.
You know, Hillary Clinton famously said, we came, we saw, he died. What's that?
Is our word worth nothing? Right. What sort of weapons did they have? They had a nuclear program?
They did not have a nuclear program, but they had a quite a robust chemical weapons program.
Okay. And a biological weapons program. But the thing with biological weapons
is you can have a BW program just, you know, in your kitchen. You don't need gigantic laboratories
or factories for BW like you do for CW. And then you need reactors and such for, for nuclear.
So what is Russia's concern with NATO? Why should Russia be concerned about NATO?
The Russians really believe that we intend to someday invade them and overthrow their government.
They really believe it. That's crazy to you and me.
It doesn't seem crazy.
But they, they really believe it. And, you know, if you look at it,
one of my best friends is also my attorney. He's former deputy attorney general of the
United States. And we talk every single day about these kinds of issues. And
he told me the other day, very frankly, why the fuck is Montenegro in NATO?
Like, are we going to actually, first of all, who's going to, who's going to invade Montenegro?
And even if somebody doesn't invade Montenegro, we're really going to commit our young men and
women to, you know, defend to the death, the government of Montenegro. Come on.
Right. He said, if you look at the NATO charter, the NATO charter was to protect
member countries against the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union doesn't exist anymore.
So, why is there a NATO? You know, and in the charter, it says it was to defend the member
countries. So, why do we have, why did we have NATO troops in Afghanistan? Afghanistan's not in
Europe and it's not a member country. Why do we have NATO troops in Syria or in Iraq or in Libya
or in the Sahel? And that wasn't even revealed to the American people. That was revealed by
accident. Why do we have NATO troops in these countries? They're not being threatened by the
Soviet Union. So, the Russians see this and they're like, dang, these NATO people,
they're willing to do anything. This is frightening.
Why won't any U.S. presidency or, or anybody in the U.S. consider
Russia becoming a part of NATO? I don't know. I never understood that.
I never understood that because if Russia's asking for it, if Putin is asking for it,
saying, I want to be friends. Yeah. What is the real reason why we don't want to be friends?
You know, I think in part, and forgive me if this is, if this sounds overly cynical,
but I think in part that this policy is really determined by the defense contractors.
We, we have a permanent, we live in a permanent wartime economy post 9-11.
Our defense budget is bigger than the next eight largest countries combined, right?
We can't make, we can't make payments on our national debt, interest payments on the national
debt. And, and we're going to bankrupt social security because everything goes to defense.
But if we cut the defense budget, it pushed the whole economy into recession.
Right, right, right. So you have to have an enemy to justify a budget like that.
What's this? According to NATO, Russia cannot be considered a partner due to its hostile actions.
Oh, there it is. It's because of its hostile actions and policies.
NATO considers Russia to be a direct threat to the security of its allies,
as well as to the stability of peace in the Euro-Atlantic area. NATO cites Russia's war
in Ukraine as a reason for this. Yeah, I heard that in the beginning,
maybe six months after the Ukraine war started, Ukraine had a really strategic victory over Russia.
And a couple of generals were like urging or were saying publicly that like,
this is the time to go to the negotiating table and exactly right and negotiate peace with Russia
because we just had a little bit of a win. Yes. Now's the time to, from a position of strength,
now's the time to do it. And the White House said fuck no. The reason why we have not had any peace
talks is because of the White House. The Russians say, okay, we're ready for peace talks. The
Ukrainians say, well, we prefer not to, but in the interest of saving lives, we're willing to go to
the table. And the Americans say, absolutely not. You remember this joke that started when the war
began, that the White House was willing to fight to the last Ukrainian. And it's true. We don't care
if it keeps the Russians wrapped up. But the thing is, there's a tipping point.
And we've already seen that tipping point now. We put sanctions on Russia that would bring most
countries to their knees. And actually the opposite happened with Russia. They so strengthened their
relationship with the Chinese, with the Indians, with the Pakistanis, the Iranians, even in Latin
America with those countries, that they don't need the United States and they don't need our banking
system. The price of Russian oil has gone up since the invasion, not down. In the Indians,
we were complaining to the Indians just a week ago, you have to stop buying Russian oil. Why?
You're going to give us the oil at that price? Yeah, I didn't think so.
So we forced them into the arms of the Chinese. And there was a recent story too about the
pipeline. Originally, there was a story that came out, was it Noam Chomsky who made them?
No, it was Sy Hersh. Yeah, Sy Hersh came up with the story that the CIA bombed the pipeline,
the Nord Stream, but then recently some Ukrainian military special forces said that they did it.
They went out on sailboats and did it without Zelensky's knowledge.
Right. He didn't know anything about it. And they relied on their deep expertise in
underwater demolitions. Right? You know, when the pipeline was first blown up,
I happened to be having dinner with a former boss of mine from the agency. And he's been
retired for decades and he's ill now. So I like to hang out with him. And I said to him,
who do you think blew this thing up? It had to be us, right? And he said, what? No, it was Putin.
And I said, Putin, why would Putin blow up his own gas pipeline so that he could blame us?
And I said, come on, man, you don't really believe that, do you? And he said, well, truthfully,
I don't really know what to believe anymore. Going back to, so you're talking about,
we're talking about NATO and some of these countries that are in NATO. And they're,
they are a part of NATO because we have their back and we would apparently defend them.
How does this translate to China and Taiwan? And so a lot of people, including this guy,
Andy, my friend, Andy Bustamonte, who was recently on here, he's predicted that China's
going to invade Taiwan right in the lead up to the 2024 presidential elections.
Not a chance. Not a chance. No way. So two parts to that question. Why is there not a chance?
And number two, why is Taiwan important to us? Why would why would America not want
China to take Taiwan? For a couple of reasons. That's the easiest question to answer. I'll
answer that one first. So Taiwan's important to us primarily because it keeps pressure on mainland
China. But two, because the Taiwanese economy is so strong, it's been developed so well over
the years, like South Korea, that as things stand right now, that's where we get all of our microchips.
The Taiwan semiconductor is the big, the big boy on the block. We're beginning now to transfer
manufacturing to the United States, but we're starting from scratch. So most of our tech comes
from Taiwan. Looking back historically though, and I think this is really important,
China does not have a history of expansionism with just a couple of exceptions. First of all,
Tibet. That's a big one. They invaded and annexed Tibet. But the Chinese truly believe
that Tibet has always been a part of China, right? So they didn't invade and annex,
they just secured what was already theirs. In the late 1970s, they had a brief
border skirmish with Vietnam, brief. And every once in a while, they'll fire shots across the
border with India. That's it. They don't invade other countries. It's just not a part of their
foreign policy. And that's why they always use their veto in the UN Security Council,
not always, but almost always, when the US goes to the UN to ask for a use of force resolution.
Because they just don't believe anybody should be invading other countries.
Now, they're very upset with us over Taiwan. And I think for good reason.
So the Chinese have what's called a one China policy, saying that Taiwan is a part of China.
It's always been a part of China. But it's separated right now from China since the Civil War,
1946 to 1949. And that one day, they will be joined again. And that day will come after
successful negotiations. Okay, that's the position of both China and Taiwan.
The United States, when it recognized mainland China as the representative of the Chinese people
during the Carter administration, agreed to adopt the one China policy. Okay, so we don't have an
embassy in Taipei. We have an interest section. It's massive. And it's bigger than most of our
embassies around the world. But it's called an interest section, because there's only one China
and the capital of China's Beijing. So our embassies in Beijing, not in Taipei, right?
Okay. Okay. Now, with that said, the policies written in stone, we recognize Beijing as
the representative of the Chinese people. We support the idea that the two will be joined
through negotiations, right? So why do we send carrier battle groups there?
That's just a provocative action. Who are we going to fight? And for what reason?
You're saying we're sending carrier battle groups?
We have two aircraft carrier battle groups in the South China Sea right now
to pressure the Chinese. The Chinese don't need our pressure. We're the ones saying,
oh my god, we should be careful. The Chinese are going to invade Taiwan. If we're not careful,
if we're not careful, oh my gosh, we have to increase defense spending,
right? Otherwise, they're going to invade Taiwan. They never said they're going to invade Taiwan.
We're the ones that keep saying it. And then the Chinese say, hey, listen,
remember, part of the agreement that we came to in 1979 was no official US government visits to
Taiwan, right? We are the representative of the Chinese people. So if an American government
official wants to visit China, it goes to mainland China. So then why did Nancy Pelosi go in the last
two weeks of her speakership? She went to Taiwan. And then Kevin McCarthy went to Taiwan. And then
the governor of Indiana went to Taiwan. Why? Just to piss off the Chinese. So we can say, see,
you can't tell us what to do. We can do whatever we want. And we like these Taiwan people.
They make all of our microchips. And you better not invade them. Maybe we should send nuclear
carrier battle groups into the South China Sea. Just in case, keep the honest people honest,
it's a provocation. There's nukes on those battleships?
Sometimes. We have nukes on the subs that sometimes accompany those battle groups.
Okay. Yeah. Okay. So and why don't you think that China will invade Taiwan leading up to
the 2024 election? They get nothing out of it. Nothing out of it, but bloodshed. They don't need
to invade Taiwan. They have their own dialogue with Taiwan right now. They have robust trade
going back and forth, robust. They are each other's biggest trading partners. Why put a
torch to all that? It doesn't make any sense. Why go to war with your own people? Don't forget.
Just a few years ago, they negotiated these deals where people can go back and forth to see
family members and they can stay for six months at a time. Between China and Taiwan?
To reunite families. So why go to war with your own family and then just start killing everybody,
crash both your economies, risk a nuclear attack from the Americans? For what? What do you get out
of it? That doesn't make any sense. What do you think a conflict would look like between China and
the United States if we went to war? Oh, wow. I think it would be highly technological.
And when I say that, I mean, I think we would be bombarded by cyber attacks,
the likes of which we've never seen. And we would, of course, be doing the same thing.
I mean, you wouldn't be able to get online. You wouldn't be able to do your banking.
It would be brutal. But the real danger, of course, is a nuclear exchange. That's always
going to be the big danger. Yeah. See, and this is another thing. That's scary. The Chinese arsenal
is not like the Russian arsenal, where it's all rickety, broken down, 40-year-old technology.
This is state-of-the-art stuff. We know that, right? Oh, yeah. We have people. Oh, yeah. Because
the Chinese have way more money than we do. Way more money. The amount of knowledge they have
of what it's going to look like and still, like the saber rattling that goes on when they know
all these countries still have this kind of power. See, that's what I mean when I said,
we should be letting the diplomats do their job, right? There's no reason to be
to be engaged in this kind of brinkmanship all the time. And it's with both the Russians
and the Chinese. Jenna Yellen, the Secretary of Treasury, said the other day in congressional
testimony that, of course, we can fight a two-front war. It's like, what planet do you live on
that you think we can fight a two-front war? We couldn't fight Iraq and Afghanistan at the same
time. And you think we can fight China and Russia at the same time? Just let the professionals do
their thing. Okay, let's talk about Israel and Palestine conflict. Yeah, this is heartbreaking.
What is your opinion on what's going on over there? I know there's a lot of stuff. I've been
watching some of Pierce Morgan's videos on it. I mean, I think he's doing a phenomenal job of
having balanced interviews with both people on both sides. Yeah, I've seen a lot of screaming
going on. A lot of screaming, yeah. But it's fascinating. And Israel is something I don't
know a lot about the history of Israel. I do know a lot about, I know their intelligence agency,
you know, Mossad and Shembet are like some of the most sophisticated in the world when it comes
to intelligence and all that. How do you think this thing happened on October 7th, was it?
Yeah, October 7th. There are a couple different answers to that question.
In the immediate term, it turns out that it was an intelligence failure. You know,
the Israeli settlers that live in the villages up and down the border with Gaza
have been deputized by the government to report back to Shembet
on anything unusual that they see. We know now that for the last year, and we just learned this
in the last couple of days, for the last year, they had been reporting back to Shembet that
something's up. They're hearing gunfire that indicated practice. They were watching people
climb over the wall, also practicing. They were picking up a lot of chatter,
indicating that there was some kind of planning for an attack.
There was a lot of stuff. And they were dutifully reporting this back to Shembet.
And Shembet's response to them was, cut it out, the fight's going to be in the West Bank.
It's not going to be in Gaza. And so they just wouldn't do anything about it. And then,
several months ago, they just decided to stop accepting the information,
because they had convinced themselves, thanks to Itamar Ben Gavir, the new extreme right-wing
minister of national security, that the fight was going to be in the West Bank, not in Gaza.
So they were asleep at the switch. That's the answer for what we've seen in the immediate term.
Otherwise, this goes back generations. And I'm somebody who has always supported Israel's right
to exist. After the Second World War, I think the Jews needed a homeland. I think they deserved a
homeland. At the same time, I'm a strong supporter of Palestinian human rights. I don't care when
Israelis tell me that two state solutions dead. Well, it shouldn't be dead. It's the only answer
to this thing, right? There should be an independent Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital.
And you guys can live happily ever after. The problem is, one of many problems, but in my view,
one of the most significant problems, is that the Israelis, especially under Benjamin Netanyahu,
he's been Prime Minister seven times now, the Israelis have stolen more and more land every
single day. They're driving more Palestinians off of their farms and out of their homes.
They're setting their olive trees on fire, and they're confiscating the headlands of the
handful of rivers and creeks that run through the country so that they can control the flow of water.
Well, that's a crime against humanity. You can't do that. Where a family has owned this farm and
worked this farm for 100 years, and a Jewish family from Brooklyn gets to move in, and then
you're homeless, and they tell you, oh, emigrate to Jordan. Emigrate to Egypt. You're not welcome
here anymore. You know, in 2008, my mom called me one day, and she said, hey, I think I'm going to go
to Ireland. I've never been to Ireland, and NPR has this trip. And I said, Ireland, I said, Mom,
it's wintertime. Where do you want to go to Ireland in the winter for? And she said, oh, I don't know.
I feel like I want to do something. I said, well, this priest at my church is getting a group of
people together to go to Israel. And I said, you've never been to Israel. You've always said you
wanted to go. She said, that's a great idea. That's what I'll do. So she went with a whole bunch of
people who were friends of mine and our priest, and they went to Israel. And the priest always
works with this travel agency there. It's run by Palestinian Christians. Most people don't realize
that in the West Bank, 7% of Palestinians are Christians. And in Gaza, still 2% of Gazans
are Christians. They're Greek Orthodox, almost all of them. Wow. They're a handful of Catholics
still in, well, Bethlehem and Nazareth are both Christian towns, and they're Christians in Haifa.
Anyway, so she goes to Israel, has the time of her life. But she came back and she said,
there was one thing that traumatized me. She said, you're in Tel Aviv, and you're looking
around like this place is fantastic, right? First world palm trees, looks like Miami Beach,
seriously. And then you go to a Palestinian town, and it looks like hell on earth. And there are
these enormous walls, barbed wire at the tops, mines along the bottoms of them to keep the Palestinians
out of Israel. But the problem is that they keep settling more and more and more villages,
where they just steal the land from the Palestinians who have been working it for hundreds of years,
and then they add that to what is Israel proper. They've been doing that a lot in the West Bank.
And she said, the worst part of it was they were going from Jerusalem to Nazareth. And you have
to cross through a number of checkpoints, IDF checkpoints, Israel Defense Force. And she said,
the driver had one of these drugstore pulp fiction novels with him. So when everybody would be in,
you know, looking at the museum or looking at a church, he would just be in the little bus
reading his pulp fiction novel. So they stopped the bus at this checkpoint before they could get
into town. And IDF came on the bus and wanted to see everybody's passport. They're all Americans.
And then he grabs, he snatches the book out of the driver's hands. What is this?
PLO propaganda? And the driver says, it's just a book. And so my mom said, the soldier opened the
book and says, no picture of Arafat on this page and tore the page out and threw it at him.
No picture of Arafat on this page and tore pages out and threw them at him again. She said,
he tore all the pages of the book out and threw them at the driver's face,
just because he could, not for any other reason. Another thing too, I've noticed this especially
in the past several weeks as the Israelis and Hamas have engaged in hostage negotiations.
Why is it that we call Jews being held by Hamas hostages, but Palestinians being held by Israel
detainees? Did you notice that? Because these Palestinians have never been charged with a crime.
The military just busts down the door of their house, grabs everybody and throws them in a cage.
How is that not being held hostage? What makes those people detainees?
They're also civilians. In many cases, they're children.
70 of the Palestinian hostages that have been released have been children,
but we're laser focused on the Israelis being held by Hamas. Now, that's not to say Hamas isn't
a bloodthirsty terrorist organization. I think that it is, as is Pidge, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
How long has Hamas been basically the ruling organization in Gaza?
Right, since 2005. They were formed around 1990 or 91, but they've actually run it
since 2005, which is when the Israelis withdrew as the governing authority.
You know, funny thing too, that strip of land until 1973 was administered by Egypt.
The West Bank was administered by Jordan, as was East Jerusalem, but Gaza was administered by Egypt.
And then in the wake of the Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt, brokered by Jimmy Carter.
The Egyptians said, we don't want it back. You guys can have it. It's nothing but trouble.
We don't want it. And the Israelis were like, well, we don't want it. Well, we don't want it either.
So the Israelis are like, okay, we'll just let it sit there for a while. And then
it got to be so much of a problem for them because it's very densely populated. It's one of the most
densely populated places on earth. And it's restive. Then the Israelis had to go in as part of,
I think it was the first Intifada. And then by 2005, they decided, we got to get out of here.
There's too many Palestinians here. What is the balance geopolitically of
Israel, Iran, Saudi Arabia when it comes to this? Well, that's a great question. And Hamas
made a statement the other day, just in the past week or so, that what finally convinced them to
launch this thing was the closeness of a diplomatic agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia.
They had seen history just slipping through their hands, right? With these Abraham Accords that
Donald Trump negotiated while a great victory for Israel and for the Gulf Arabs. It was a punch in
the throat to the Palestinians. Remember, Trump in the campaign said, I'll fix the Israeli Palestinian
problem in one day. Yeah, you do that by fucking the Palestinians.
I mean, you didn't fix it. You just literally gave the Israelis everything that they wanted.
That's not fixing it. It only made it worse. So there was this little heyday that lasted from
2019 to October the 7th, where Israel opens relations with Morocco and Sudan and the United
Arab Emirates and Bahrain. And I think I'm leaving somebody out. And they're this close to relations
with Saudi Arabia, which is going to be the crown jewel, really, of Israeli foreign policy.
And Hamas decided. Iran does not want Saudi Arabia and Israel to have a relationship. Absolutely
not. Why not? Because Iran's greatest enemy is Israel. Now, see, this is part of the thing
that makes this also complicated. Iran and Saudi Arabia hate each other like to the death. They
hate each other. Going back to 1979, the Iranian Revolution was in February of 79 in March. I
think it was March or April of 79. That's when the Hajj took place in Mecca and Medina, right?
The Iranians infiltrated the Hajj and they took over the Holy Kaaba, the big black granite cube
that holds the rock that God gave Muhammad. So more than a thousand people were killed in the ensuing
the takeover and then the reaction from the Saudi military and the Saudis broke relations with Iran
and it was decades before they put it back together again. So the Saudis, even during the Iran-Iraq
war, the Saudis supported Iran because they were so afraid of, I'm sorry, the Saudis supported
Iraq because they were so afraid of Iran. And Saudi Arabia has a very large Shia Muslim population
in its eastern province. Saudi Arabia is a Sunni Muslim country. Iran is a Shia Muslim country,
but this little sliver of Saudi Arabia is Shia and that just happens to be where all the oil is,
right? So they are perfectly happy to execute as many Shia Muslim Saudis as they need to
to make sure that everything remains calm. And they do it a lot. They kill a lot of people there
in the eastern province. So they've got this bad relationship with the Iranians, goes back decades
and then the Chinese come in, beginning of this year and they say, listen, we don't have a dog in
this fight, but we like you and we like you and we think you guys should get together and it would
be good for peace and we can fuck the Americans this way. And so what do you say? We broke her
peace between you and the Saudis send an ambassador to Tehran and the Iranians send an ambassador to
Riyadh. And before we even realize what's going on, they announce the resumption of diplomatic
relations and we're like, oh my God, that's our sphere of influence and the Chinese just screwed
us out of it. So then we're like, okay, well now what we're going to do is we're going to get the
Saudis to recognize Israel and that'll screw the Iranians and it'll screw the Chinese because
the Chinese won't have played a role in it. And so we start leaking these stories to the press.
We're close. The Saudis and the Israelis, it's going to happen. It's coming together just another
couple of weeks. There's going to be a big visit. The Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia is going to go
to Jerusalem and Hamas says, oh no, he doesn't. And they launch the attack.
But doesn't the, I'm sorry, Iran is Shia. Shia.
Isn't, aren't the, the main population of Hamas? That's a very important point. I'm glad you raised
that. They're Sunnis. Hamas is Sunni, 100% Sunni. Right. Right. So why would they even speak to
the Iranians? Yes. Because that's how much they hate the Israelis. So they say in Arabic,
the enemy of my enemy is my friend. Right. They mean it. Right. They mean that. And so
the Iranians have long helped to finance Hamas just because they hate the Israelis so much
that at least that is going to keep the Israelis bogged down and, and will serve to weaken them
and bleed them a little bit. That's why the Iranians support Syria. You know, Bashar al-Assad is,
is not, I mean, he, he's part of a sect that's neither Sunni nor Shia, but he gets great help
from the Iranians. And, and the Qataris, the Qataris are Sunni. They're not just Sunni, but they're
Wahhabi Sunni just like the Saudis are. And they have very close relations with Iran because the
Qataris hate the Israelis too. What about, what is Jordan's role in all this?
Poor Jordan. I had a quick aside. I had a guy in here a couple of weeks ago who was part of an
army ranger camp who was in Jordan and he was telling me this crazy story about they were
training Jordanians to kill. And he was saying that there's only two people Jordanians kill.
I forget the first one, but the second one was Israelis. He was saying that Jordanians hated
Israel, Israelis. Wow. And he was like, he's like, he was like, it wasn't our written objective.
He's like, but we knew we were just training them to kill the Israelis.
I was like, that sounds crazy. It's not quite that clear cut.
And he was also telling me stories about how the Mossad, when they're training the Mossad,
they literally send them on missions to break into Jordan and like, like do little operations
and steal things or do things and go back and navigate back into Israel. Yes. As part of their
training. Training exercises. The Israelis actually had to apologize to the Jordanian government
because as part of their training exercises, they would move the border fence. So there's a fence
dividing Israel and Saudi, Israel and Jordan. And they would move it only a couple inches at a time
so that nobody would notice. Well, then over time, it's moved like 300 feet into Jordan.
And they had to apologize and say, listen, we stole 300 feet of your territory. We'll give it
back to you. We're going to move the fence back. Jordan is very complicated. Yeah. Fully. I don't
mean to muddy the water. No, that's okay. This is all this is all apropos of the original issue.
Jordan is fully 50% Palestinian, right? These are all refugees from the Nakba from 1940,
was it 47, 48? They've never been treated as full Jordanian citizens. Even their passports
are a different color. So if you're an ethnic Palestinian, you're not really Jordanian.
You have most of the rights that a Jordanian has, but you can't vote, right? Yeah. And you don't have
the same economic opportunities that Jordanians have. There's a huge difference too between
Jordanians and the Jordanian royal family. The Jordanian royal family, they're essentially all
Americans, right? The king owns a condo in Georgetown at the Four Seasons. You were saying
you saw him at the mall or something? I saw him walking around the mall at Tyson's Corner.
You're like, oh my God, that's King Abdullah. They can't be any more pro-American. I mean that
quite literally. There's nothing more that they can do that's going to make them any more pro-American.
But that's not the average Jordanian. They don't like us and they don't trust us because we've
screwed them so many times in the past. At the same time, deep down, they're afraid of the
Palestinians. In 1968, there was a Palestinian group called Black September and Black September
decided, well, if we can't have Palestine with Jerusalem as its capital, we're going to take
Jordan with Amman as its capital. They were literally fighting on the steps of the royal palace
when the Jordanian military finally pushed them back. Thousands of people were killed
in that fight. King Hussein, the current king's father, said at the time that the Palestinians
have to be cowed. You don't allow them to integrate into society because if you do,
they're going to try to overthrow the royal family and take the country again because they
can't have their own country. So there's this resentment that's bubbling just beneath the
surface. On paper, it looks like, oh, well, Jordan and Israel, they've been at peace for
30 years and they travel back and forth and everybody's kumbaya. That's just not true.
They don't like each other. They realize it's a dangerous neighborhood. They have to live
with each other. But I think your friend's observations are mostly correct. Yeah. I don't
think that... Well, let me rephrase that. Every once in a while, and by that I mean
every decade or decade and a half, a Jordanian soldier will go nuts and just open fire on the
Israelis. And they'll usually kill a couple. And then the Jordanians apologize and they
offer money to the family of the dead Israelis and the Israelis accept the apology and then
they pretend everything's fine. But it's because things are bubbling up just beneath the surface.
It's such a crazy part of the world. It is. It's fascinating. From when I was 15 years old,
all I wanted to do was live in the Middle East and work on the Middle East.
And you lived there for a total of how long? I was there for five years.
And how long were you in Greece? Two years.
So, okay, going back to the balance of power over there, and it seems like a big sort of
proxy war between America and China, really. I mean, if you look at it. Yeah. When it comes to
Iran and Hamas and Saudi Arabia and Israel, where does Russia fit into this?
Because Russia and Iran are close, right? Yeah, Russia and Iran are close.
I'm going to go back to 1995 when I was living in Bahrain. I was the senior economic officer
of the American Embassy, and this was the heyday of the Arab-Israeli peace process. And so,
the United Nations announced peace talks between Israel and the Arab countries on the environment,
and they were going to be held in Bahrain. So, I was a delegate to the Arab-Israeli peace talks
on the environment. What my instructions were the day we received the invitation from
the State Department to deliver to the... The way it is, we're a superpower, and Russia was a
superpower. So, we got this invitation, and I was supposed to go with the Russian Economic
Officer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and say, your excellency, on behalf of the
governments of the United States and the Russian Republic, we hereby invite you to host the next
round of the Arab-Israeli peace talks. These talks will be on the environment, right? It's
this stupid diplomatic formality. So, I get the invitation. I called my Russian counterpart,
Andre. Good guy. His wife was an Olympic figure skater. I still remember. Nice guy.
A little lazy, but fun. And I said, Andre, I got my instructions today, and he said,
yeah, I got my instructions. I said, okay, I'll call over to the foreign minister's office and
make the appointment for us. So, I did, and they gave me an appointment for the next day.
And so, just as I was going to leave to go pick him up and then go to the foreign ministry,
I get instructions from state, don't pick up the Russian, just do it yourself.
And I'm like, why? This is a joint U.S.-Russian peace initiative. So, I went to the ambassador,
and I said, ambassador, I got this odd instruction from state. He said, yeah, I saw that. I said,
what do I do? He said, well, you got to ignore the Russian. I said, that's going to make for
an awkward lunch. So, I drove over to the foreign minister's office. I went to see him,
and I said, your excellency, on behalf of the United States government, I would like to formally
invite you, blah, blah, blah. My phone is blowing up at the time. Well, my phone, it was like this
big. So, you know, the size of a shoebox. And Andre's like, where are you? And I said, Andre,
I am so sorry. And I explained what happened. He's like, come on, man. Like, what the fuck?
I said, I'm sorry. It's some kind of power play in Washington. I don't even know what to say to you.
I'm sorry. And after that, he was, you know, very cold to me, and he knew it wasn't me. But
the whole point of this is, historically, really, since the end of the Second World War,
the Middle East is ours. It's not the Russians or the Chinese. It's ours. And so, that's why
we are so apoplectic about the Russians having troops in Syria, because Syria is part of the
Middle East and the Middle East is ours. And now, all of a sudden, the Chinese are involved,
negotiating peace between the Iranians and the Saudis. Like, where'd that come from?
We're already worried about the Russians in Syria, and now we've got to worry about the
Chinese in Saudi Arabia. Another thing. Another thing. The last time I was in Djibouti,
Djibouti is a little tiny country in Africa. The only reason I went to Djibouti was because we
have a military base there. And I knew it was for. It's like the worst-kept secret in the world
that's our drone base for Yemen. It's only 16 miles across the water from Djibouti to Yemen.
And Yemen was, at the time that I was last there, was one of the headquarters of Al Qaeda.
So, this was a base built by the French back in the 60s. Camp Lemonnier, it's called. So,
like you see guys in the French foreign legion, they wear these stupid, like, short shorts
and these funny hats, and they're walking around. They're always in Paris, walking around town in
their little shorts. And so, I went to the base and all I see is Chinese. And I said to the military
guy that I was working with, I thought this was a French base. Like, and we had part of it. He said,
oh, no, no, he said the French sold it a couple of years ago. I said, they sold it, not to the
Chinese. He goes, yeah, it's the only foreign military base that the Chinese have. And they share
it with the U.S. military. How crazy is that? So, you know, what else was funny at the time?
And I made a joke about it with the guy. There's literally a chain link fence that goes down the
middle of the base. So, on the left side is Chinese, and on the right side, it's American. So, on the,
and it's just a row, as far as the eye can see, a row of hangers with this fence going down the
center of it. And on the left, all the hangers are open. The Chinese side? Uh-huh. They're all open.
And on the right, the American side, all the hangers are closed. And I said,
why are the hangers closed? What do we have in there? And he goes, come on, dude. I go,
oh, I know what we have in there. I'm just pulling your leg. Drones? All drones. Oh my god.
That's interesting. So, what do you think, what do you think the communication is between Russia
and Iran trying to, with Israel being in the middle of all this? Are they, what do you think
they want to see happen with this conflict? Yeah, well, if you recall on October 7th and October 8th,
virtually the first thing that came out of the Israeli government as soon as hostilities began
was, you need to help us bomb Iran. The Iranians did this. The Iranians are behind it. They gave
Hamas the weapons. They gave Hamas the money. And the Iranians came out and said, look, we had
nothing to do with this. And then the White House leaked some intelligence saying the intelligence
community is unable to confirm allegations that the Iranians were behind the Hamas attack,
which is true. The Iranians didn't do this. The Iranians probably hoped it was going to happen.
And are glad that it did happen. But we put our foot down and we did. Wow. Because ever since
George W. Bush was president, Benjamin Netanyahu has begged us to attack Iran. He's begged us,
literally. I mean, I was, I won't go into the details, but he's begged us multiple times.
And we're not willing to go to war with Iran just as a favor to the Israelis.
And so that's shocking. He thought that he could pull us into it on the 8th of October.
And we said, our intelligence is not coming to the same conclusion that yours is. Well,
there was no intelligence that the Iranians were involved. So the Iranians know that the Russians
are preoccupied right now, which is, I think, what the Israeli calculation was. The Israeli
calculation was probably, look, the Russians are bogged down in Ukraine. If we can convince the
Americans to hit the Iranians, even if it's just by launching cruise missiles, that's going to help
us a lot. But then the Chinese are like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. We have good relations
with the Chinese. And we don't have any intelligence. I mean, the Chinese with the Iranians. And we
don't have any intelligence to show that the Iranians were involved. China doesn't have any
intelligence. Right. And so we backed off. The Russians probably, you know, were like,
that was a close one. And the Chinese are like, look at us and how powerful we are in the Middle
East all of a sudden. And I'll tell you one other thing that the Chinese have really done right.
Here we are spending all this money on military systems and hardware, right? And what are the
Chinese spending their money on? Ports, highways, hospitals, airports, loans to poor countries.
This is the Belt and Road. It's brilliant. And is it true that all of these airports and
train stations and embassies that they're building and cargo ports all over the world,
that these things can be converted into air force bases in the matter? No. No. No. I'll give you
as an example. When the Greek economy collapsed in 2008, you know, it took actually yesterday
standard and pours upgraded Greek bonds to investment grade for the first time since 2008.
So it's taken this long from 2008 to 2023. And in that time, the Greeks really, really, really
needed the money. And so they sold the port of Piraeus to the Chinese. The port of Piraeus is
the biggest cargo port in the world. And they sold the port of Thessaloniki and the port of
Iraclion Crete, right? Which is the biggest port in the Aegean. They sold all three ports to the
Chinese. It killed them to have to do it. But for the first time, all three ports are profitable.
Wow.
Wow. See, for the Chinese, it's all about good relations. It's all about good relations,
and they buy good relations. You need money? No problem. What do you need? You need a new
hospital? We can do that for you. You need to upgrade your airport? Oh my God, your airport
looks like it belongs in Africa. We'll give you a new airport, you know? Oh, you need a highway
to go from Athens to Thessaloniki because the mountains are so high, you know, you don't have
the money to blow the tunnels. We'll do it for you. No problem. And they do.
Now, can you explain, to me, I have a loose understanding of it, but
can you explain what the BRICS is? Like I know there's NATO, then there's the BRICS Alliance,
right? Yeah, so BRICS was originally Brazil, Russia, India, China. Okay. BRIC. Brazil, Russia,
India, China. Okay. So, this was more of a trade organization than anything else, saying,
you know, we're all big, powerful economies. We're tired of being sanctioned by the US.
Let's just do our own thing. And it ended up working for them, to the point where the Brazilians
have been talking for the last year about creating a new currency that's going to be unique to the
BRICS countries, like the Euro, for example. And it's gone so well for them that they just
added several countries. They added like South Africa, South Korea. Oh, wow. All the way up until
the fall of the Soviet Union, there was an international organization called the NAM,
the Non-Aligned Movement. So, it was like this, but it was political in nature. This is specifically
trade in nature. Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa. And then they added a bunch.
They add. And 2023. BRICS countries held the annual leaders summit and Johannesburg summit was.
Oh, the new countries, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Argentina, the UAE and Ethiopia. Oh, wow. Now,
what does this mean for the United States? Yeah, this is bad. This is bad because it's all about
trade. It's all about money. And we're so focused on the European Union and on sanctioning everybody
that pisses us off that we've actually cut trade with a lot of these countries. So, we're missing
out on a serious financial opportunity here. You know, I remember when I was still on the
analytic side in the agency, we announced a new round of sanctions on Iran. And I remember saying
to my boss, how many new sanctions could there possibly be? Right? Not realizing at the time that
if I say, hey, you, Danny Jones, you're not allowed to open a checking account in my country. Well,
you didn't have any intention of opening a checking account anyway, but that's a sanction. You've been
sanctioned, right? So, they don't, they're meaningless. We do it for political reasons.
But then, you know, after a while, these countries are like, you know, I'm tired of this,
fuck you. I'm going to go with the, I'm going to go with the Chinese. I'm going to go with this
new bricks thing. Yeah, they're not yelling at me and sanctioning me all the time. And that's what's
happening. That reminds me, there was a story you told when we were gearing up for the Iraq war.
I think you, you were sitting there in a televised meeting, you were just taking notes,
and somebody said something about invading Iran. Yeah, it was the day before we invaded Iraq.
And I was the note taker in a secure video teleconference. It was only George Tenet,
who was the CIA director and me. And then on the screens was the vice president and his note taker.
Condi Rice was the national security advisor and her note taker, Colin Powell,
Secretary of State and his note taker, Don Rumsfeld and his note taker, couple of other people,
the head of NSA, the head of CENTCOM and their note takers. And so our job is done as far as CIA
goes, right? And starting tomorrow morning, it's his military operation. So George is just sitting
there at the table with his hands folded. There's a microphone in front of him. And the vice president,
being the senior officer in the meeting, is chairing the meeting. And he starts by asking the
commander of CENTCOM general, I forget his name now, to give us a briefing. So I'm sitting directly
behind George. This is like the story of my life. I'm always the note taker. I'm always the guy sitting
behind the important guy, right? So I'm taking notes. And I think I mentioned to you, I hate
military analysis. You got to be a fast writer. Very fast writer. In fact- Do you like abbreviate?
Yeah. And one of my trainers actually commented on it one time. He said, you take notes at a wicked
pace. I said, oh, thank you. Anyway, I'm taking notes. And I hate military analysis. It's so boring
in mind numbing to me. The general's got this big map. And he's like, you know, elements of the
first infantry division are moving south to this village and then elements of the fifth army
corps. And we've got the unit, this battalion. I don't know what the fuck he's talking about. So
I'm just writing it all down. And then he says, if all goes as planned, we can be in Tehran by
August. And George, again, George is just sitting there like this. And then he very discreetly
turns the microphone off and he turns around and he says, did he say Baghdad or did he say Tehran?
And I said, he said Tehran. And who was at the side of that again? The commander of Central Command.
Okay. Four-star general who's leading the troops across the border the next day. Got it. And George
said, these people lost their minds. And then he turns the microphone back on and just sits there.
So the meeting goes for about an hour. Everybody's like, good luck tomorrow, everybody. Good luck,
good luck, USA. You know, that kind of thing. So I go back to the office. I was working for
the deputy director at the time. And he said, who was the deputy director again? Jim Pavett. Jim Pavett.
Yeah, yeah. And he said, how'd the meeting go? And I said, did you know we were going to invade Iran?
And he goes, ooh, are they still talking about that? And I said, yeah. I said,
Sincsent brought it up. Sincsent, commander in chief Sankam. Sincsent brought it up.
And he said, listen, they're not going to invade Iran. These people don't understand anything about
the region. They think we could just, you know, walk in and everybody's going to be milk and honey.
Nobody's invading Iran. And of course, you know, it was never mentioned again.
Wow. That's so wild. Just to not fly on the wall for these meetings.
I remember one of the other attendees. I don't want to say his name, but he was a senior director
at the National Security Council. I didn't like this guy from the get go because he was so arrogant
and he would put people down. He would put our allies down. He was especially harsh with the
Kurds. We used to have Kurds come to Washington all the time for high level meetings. And I was
off in the note taker or sometimes I would escort them to the meetings. And this guy always talked
to them like they had half a brain and, you know, it was just insulting. So anyway,
Sincsent's giving the briefing and this guy chimes in and he says,
they're going to throw flowers at us as soon as we cross that border.
And I said to my boss afterwards,
I said, has this guy never been to the Middle East? Has he never read history?
Do none of them understand what we're getting into tomorrow? Throw flowers at us.
They would rather live under Saddam Hussein than to be occupied by the American army.
And so when you guys were leading up to the Iraq war, what was the CIA's stance on this?
Oh, yeah. So when I was first read into the compartment, it was about, let me think,
it was about eight months before the invasion, they said, look, we're going to invade Iraq,
we're going to overthrow Saddam Hussein, we're going to do this and do that.
And there was some con man who was involved in giving intelligence.
Ahmad Chalabi.
Yes, Chalabi, that's what was.
Ahmad Chalabi, major con man.
When I was first read into the compartment, I said, are they nuts? We haven't caught bin Laden yet.
Like this is all we ever talked about. We got to find bin Laden, we got to kill bin Laden.
Now all of a sudden we're going to attack Iran or I mean Iraq, for one reason.
Iraq hadn't done anything to us. And this senior officer that read me into the compartment,
very senior officer, he said, look, the decision's already been made and the
battle lines have been drawn. This isn't, this isn't an answer to your question.
He said the battle lines have been drawn. He said the pro war faction is OVP,
the office of the vice president, OSD, the office of the secretary of defense.
And an SC, the national security council. He said the anti war faction is the state department,
the CIA, and the joint chiefs. And we've lost. Wow.
Yeah, it was crystal clear. This was all on Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld, all of it.
And to a lesser extent, Condi Rice, because she was very easily pushed around.
Yeah. And so can you explain Chalabi? Yeah.
And how was he instrumental in all of this? He was like, he was like robbing people out
of their money. He created like a fake bank at one point. And did Dick, did Cheney know?
Oh, of course he did. Okay. Yeah. That makes, that makes it an even more interesting story.
So Ahmed Chalabi was one of those very rare Shia Kurds. They're like, you know, six of them, right?
He was born in Iraqi Kurdistan, but his family was Shia Muslim, very, very unusual. He was
a bright kid. And so his parents sent him to London to get degrees in finance at the
London School of Economics. He ended up moving to Jordan.
Before Saddam became the leader of Iraq, he moved to Jordan and opened a bank there that he called
Petra Bank. And Petra Bank succeeded because Chalabi was able to convince Iraqi refugees
to use it as their bank, right? So if you were Iraqi Petra Bank was your bank. You didn't bank
anywhere else. So that lasted from the 60s through the 70s through the 80s. And then at the end of
the 80s, he literally stole all the money, 30 million dollars in deposits, and his secretary
smuggled him into Syria in the trunk of her car. He had transferred the money to secret
accounts in London and Geneva, and then escaped to Syria and then flew to London. He owned a
magnificent townhouse in Knightsbridge, London, right by Harrod's. Magnificent. Today would be
worth, you know, 50, 60 million dollars. He wore suits that I could only fantasize about affording.
But there was something very dirty about him. He was just an awful human being. And he would come
on to every female officer that we would go out there and meet with him with. He was just disgusting.
So in 1990, Iraq invades Kuwait. And George H.W. Bush says, we got to get rid of this Saddam Hussein.
1990. Well, you can't just overthrow a foreign leader and not have a plan for the next day.
And so he said, well, we need to identify somebody that we can install as the new president of Iraq.
Well, everybody liked this guy, Chalabi. Why? Why would why do you think people would really
like Chalabi more than everybody else? He spoke English. He spoke English as well as you and I.
Everybody else is like, you know, if they spoke English, it was heavily accented.
They had BO. You know, they didn't shave all the time. But Chalabi wears $2,000 Italian suits.
He speaks English. He smells nice. Yeah, we like him. We like Chalabi. So the CIA engaged a private
contractor by the name of the Rendon Group in Washington, headed by John Rendon. I love John
Rendon. Awesome guy. What kind of contractor? He's a propagandist. You know, he said to me one
time, I said to him, well, what does that mean, actually, that you're a propagandist? Does he's
a self-proclaimed propagandist? Oh, nice. And he said, you remember the day that we liberated Kuwait?
And I said, I'll never forget it. As long as I live, I went into Kuwait with Marines on liberation
day. Oh, wow. And he said, everybody in Kuwait was waving a little American flag. I said, yeah,
it was like a dream. He goes, where the heck do you think they got all those little American flags?
What, they're just laying around? I was like, oh my God, I didn't even think of that.
That's wild. This is a CIA contractor. So they picked Chalabi. So John Rendon flies to
Vienna, Austria, meets up with Chalabi. And John says, okay, here's what we're going to do. We're
going to create this new group called the Iraqi National Congress. And what it's going to be,
it's going to be representatives of all the different Iraqi opposition groups,
right? And you're going to be the chairman of the Iraqi National Congress. So when we finally
move into Iraq, you're going to be the president and everybody else will be your cabinet.
Okay, that sounds like a decent enough idea. Several problems. Ahmed Chalabi hadn't even
been to Iraq since 1965. We weren't even sure if he spoke Arabic anymore.
Secondly, all the other people hated him. They're like, I'm at fucking Chalabi. Are you
kidding me? Do you people not know who you're dealing with? The answer was no. At the time,
we did not know who we were dealing with. The third problem is literally not a single one of
these people on the Iraqi National Congress actually lived in Iraq, none of them. If Saddam
thought that maybe perhaps someday you might possibly become an oppositionist, you're going to get
a bullet in the brain. So there were no oppositionists inside Iraq, except the Kurds. And the Kurds
are like, we're not working with any of these people. We're going to make Kurdistan and we're
going to live happily ever after. And that's where the oil is anyway. So the CIA started funneling
money to the Iraqi National Congress, millions and millions of dollars. They need to buy a building.
Where are we going to put this thing? We could put it in Vienna. We could put it in London. We
don't want to put it in Washington. It'll be too closely tied to us. So we're trying to come up with
different ways to do it. Maybe Vienna is the way to go. Okay. So he spent all the money and he needs
more money. Okay. So we gave you $40 million. How much more do you need? Give me another 20 million.
Okay. So what have you done with the first 40 million? I spent it. Yes, we know that. We just
spend it on all different kinds of stuff. Like what? Where's your building? You must have bought
a building with $40 million. I know you bought a new frigging house in London and a house in Geneva
and a Mercedes S600. So where's the rest of the money? He couldn't account for a single dollar of it.
Gone. So the CIA issued something called a burn notice. A burn notice is when you send a cable
to every CIA officer in the world and say, don't ever have any contact with this person ever again.
He's dead to us. Okay. That's what we did with Chalabi. What year was this again? Pardon me?
What year was this? By then it was like 92. Okay. Got it. So then we pretty much forget about Chalabi
through the 90s. You know, the Iraqis are sort of pissing us off because they won't let the UN
inspectors go in and then Clinton would bomb them and then they'd do it again and we'd bomb
them again and nothing was happening. It was just a stalemate. And then George W. Bush gets elected
president and 9-11 happens. And as soon as 9-11 happens, Bush says, we got invaded Iraq. It's
their fault. 9-11's their fault. We're like, no, they had like literally nothing to do with 9-11.
Well, we're going to invade them anyway. Okay. Well, we think this is a mistake, but
battle lines drawn, as I said earlier. Was there no conversations, like real conversations
the only conversations were between Cheney, Condi Rice, and Rumsfeld, but mostly Cheney's
deputies, Scooter Libby, and Addington, and you know, all those guys. No one in the CIA could get
in Bush's ear and be like, look, we were absolutely preoccupied with al-Qaeda. Everybody in the
building is working on al-Qaeda. And then Bush calls one day and says, oh, by the way, come up
with an invasion plan because we're going to invade Iraq and overthrow Saddam Hussein. We're
like, what? What are you talking about? But that was it. That was the order. So we decide to invade
Iraq and the CIA says, let's say we do invade Iraq and we overthrow Saddam Hussein, then what?
And Dick Cheney says, we're going to put this fella Ahmed Chalabi. He's going to be the president.
And we said, whoa, no, we are not. Cheney said that. Yeah. We have a burn notice on Cheney,
I mean on Chalabi and on everybody associated with Chalabi. We're not working with Chalabi.
And then the CIA reissued the burn notice saying, listen, this is from 10 years ago,
but just remember, we don't deal with this guy. So what Cheney did is he ordered the
Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence to secretly reopen a channel with Chalabi.
And he specifically told him, don't tell the CIA. I remember, you know, part of my job,
or 90% of my job at the time was reading 10, 15,000 cables a day, 20,000 that were coming in
to brief the director. I'd boil that 10 or 20,000 cables down to a half a dozen of the most
important issues to brief the director in the morning. And then we started getting these cables,
like the weapons of mass destruction are located at these geo coordinates. I'm like,
holy shit, who found this super secret, you know, double secret probation kind of special
source that nobody can know about. Well, this is a military cable. What sources does the military
have? We're the ones that run the sources. Unless this is actually an intercept that they're
disguising, which sometimes an intercept is so sensitive that they'll disguise it as something
else. What is an intercept? NSA catches it out of the air. Got it. So I went to my boss, I said,
do you know anything about this? You know who this source might be? And he's like, no, it's
pretty explosive information. I said, yeah, it could like, you know, end the war before it begins,
if we can send the UN inspectors in there. And then we started getting these like every single day.
Amazing, exactly on point intelligence. So a couple of our guys from the Iraq operations group said,
we want to talk to the source. We don't care where he is in the world. We're going to fly a
team out there and we're going to, we want to interview the source. Pentagon said, absolutely
not too sensitive. We said, no, no, no, no, no. We're the central intelligence agency, right? At the
time, the head of the CIA, his title was DCI, director of central intelligence. He was the
DNI. He headed all intelligence agencies, not just the CIA. Now it's just the CIA.
But the Pentagon refused to allow us to have access to the source. And then finally,
after some pushing and prodding, they admitted, it's Chalabi. And we're like, literally not a
single word is true. Not a single word. We went to war for this. People are dying because of this.
And not a single word of it is true. And so nothing ever came of Chalabi.
Where's he now?
He died a couple of years ago, two, three years ago in London.
Yeah. Yeah.
Did you see on, I saw on Twitter this morning, there was a video of Liz Cheney talking about
how Trump is going to lead us into a dictatorship.
Oh, please. Her father led us into a dictatorship.
I was going to say that's one, it's a one hell of a thing for a Cheney to be given
as a lesson on dictatorship.
Seriously, right? None of those people from the Iraqi National Congress ever amounted to anything.
In fact, only the Kurds, only the Kurds ended up running government.
Jalal Taliban, the head of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, ended up being the president of
Iraq. And I'll tell you something funny. In my office a couple of weeks ago,
we were talking about Iraq and my co-host on my radio show said something about Barhamsala.
And I said, oh, what's Barham doing? And she looks at me.
She said, he's the president of Iraq.
I said, Barhamsala is the president of Iraq.
He was my main, my main partner during the Iraq where he lived in Annandale, Virginia.
We had dinner at each other's house every couple of weeks.
We would go out, our kids would play together.
I said, he's president of Iraq? It's like, wow, Barham really made it.
It makes me feel like an underachiever.
Good lord.
Yeah, but Barham was a Kurd. He was a Taliban Kurd.
There were two, two different. There's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan under Jalal
Taliban and the Kurdish Democratic Party under, under...
The amount of people that you've just rubbed shoulders with that are like
powerful, such powerful world leaders around the world is so bizarre to think about, man.
Masoud Barzani was the other Kurd. It just came to me. Yeah, it's crazy.
But you know, I'm almost 60 years old now and I don't feel like I'm 60.
Like in my mind, I still feel like I'm 25.
How old were you when you were the notetaker for that meeting with President Clinton?
Yeah, I was in Greece.
Who was the meeting with?
Oh, in Greece, it was with the prime minister, the foreign minister, and the defense minister.
And then on the American side, it was the president, the secretary of state,
the national security advisor, and the ambassador. I was 30, I had just turned 35.
35, and that was the first time you ever met Clinton or?
That was the first time I had met Clinton. Yeah.
What was that meeting like? What was the purpose of that meeting?
It was a meet-and-greet.
He didn't come to go to Greece often, did he?
No. In fact, the only other presidents that have been to Greece have been Eisenhower and
HW. Oh, wow.
Yeah. He specifically came to Greece to apologize for overthrowing the Greek government in 1967.
Yeah, which was a major, major deal.
I'll tell you a funny story. I used to watch the Greek news every night, right,
to practice my spoken Greek. And for two weeks before Clinton came,
they derisively coined a name for him, a title for him. It was Planetarchis.
It means the planet ruler. So they wouldn't say Oproodros Clinton, the president Clinton.
They would say Oplanetarchis Clinton, the planet ruler.
Clinton is going to come here and grace us with his presence.
You know, that kind of thing. Every single night on every news channel,
it's Oplanetarchis, Oplanetarchis. And it would piss me off, right?
Then Clinton came and he's like, we love you. You love us.
This is the birthplace of democracy. We owe our culture to you.
We owe philosophy to you and medicine and mathematics, language. We owe everything to you.
And I want to apologize from the bottom of my heart to the people of Greece
for the illegal activity of my government in 1967 to install a military dictatorship here
that you have never gotten over. You know, people are still traumatized.
As soon as he gets on the plane to leave, right? I put the news on. They're like,
wow, we were wrong about him. What a good man. What a kind man. Oh my God,
he should be the president of Greece. It was like, it was crazy the turnaround.
It was crazy. But that meeting, I will never forget that meeting as long as I live.
Just because I'm standing there like I can't, there've been a couple of times over the course
of my career where I'm in the room and I'm looking around like I can't believe I'm in this room.
Like surely they're going to figure out that I'm a fraud, right?
Didn't he walk up to you and he was like talking about the hors d'oeuvres or something like that?
Yeah, he offered me. I got there before he did. And when I first got there, the prime minister
arrived with his people and I offered the prime minister a cup of coffee, a cup of tea, whatever
he wanted. He said, no, no, no, I'm fine. I said, okay, so I'm standing there because again,
I'm the note taker. So my job's not to get comfy on the couch. My job is to stand
discreetly with my notebook and take notes. So Clinton comes in and it's all hugs and kisses
on both cheeks and slaps on the back. And he asks the prime minister, would you like,
we got sandwiches, we got, it was a table of food that went like the entire length of the
room. It was ridiculous. $1,000 worth of food on this table. And he didn't want anything.
The foreign minister didn't want anything. The defense minister didn't want anything.
And the Greek note taker, of course, wasn't offered anything.
So then he turns to me, I think I told you this, and he goes, may I offer you something to eat?
And I said, oh, no, thank you, Mr. President, I'm fine. And he goes, oh, are you with me?
And I said, yes, sir, I'm with you. He said, I'm sorry, I thought you were Greek. I said,
I kind of am, but not really. It's a long story. Yeah.
Was Hillary there? Oh, yeah, what happened was we finished the meeting. The meeting went
about 45 minutes, not a single substantive word in the whole thing. And Clinton walks out with
Berger, who was the national security advisor. Albright, who was the secretary of state, walks
out with the ambassador, and then I walk out. So they're standing in the hall, they're two
little groups, and I'm standing against the wall. So I'm about three feet away from Clinton, maybe
I'm four feet away from Clinton. And then he finishes his conversation with Berger. So Berger
walks over to Albright and the ambassador. So Clinton is standing like where you are, and I'm
standing where I am. And at the end of the hall is the elevator and the elevator opens and Hillary
and Chelsea get off the elevator. And she's got this, this mug. You could just tell like, oh,
this is going to be bad. Just a look on her face like, oh, she was ready to explode. So she walks
right up to us. And it's the four of us then. And one thing that I learned very quickly about
Bill Clinton is that he absolutely hates silence. Something, he's so gregarious and so outgoing,
somebody has to fill the void with, with a joke, a story, something. Yes. So he says,
boy, we sure had a good time at the Parthenon this morning, didn't we Hill?
Silence. She just looks at him with this look like she wanted to kill him.
So he repeats himself. And he says, we sure had a good time at the Parthenon this morning,
didn't we Hill? And she says, Jesus Christ, Bill, it rained all day, I'll be in the room.
And then she walks between us. And he looks at me and I'm thinking to myself, you poor man,
you have to sleep next to that every night. So he looks at me, he goes, let's get the fuck out of
here. And he walks to the elevator. I follow him to the elevator. Secret service runs down there.
We go to the basement. There was this raucous crowd of 500 women in the basement. It was the
throwing themselves at him. Pretty much. It was a Hellenic American women's chamber of commerce.
And he gave this rousing, like amazing speech. There's screaming, we love you, Bill. You know,
that kind of thing. I don't know how he did it. I don't know how he did it.
What do you think fueled that relationship, the resentment she had towards him? Or I don't
know if it was resentment, but yeah, it was. This was only, this was only a year after the
Monica Lewinsky thing. And a year after. Yeah. He humiliated her. And right, right, right. You
know, she had eyes on her own political career by then. She was weighing a run for the Senate
from New York. She didn't need him anymore. Right. Yeah. It's amazing they stayed together
all this time. It's amazing. I was friends with the American ambassador to Luxembourg.
He's a Greek American who's now the president of, oh, some big university. I can't remember
now which one. But anyway, he told me the best story. He said that he had been a businessman
and multimillionaire, self-made millionaire. And so he was the head of fundraising for the
Clinton campaign for the southeastern United States. And his reward was he was named ambassador to
Luxembourg. So he said that when the Lewinsky scandal broke, all the fundraisers got together
and called each other and said, he's got to resign. Right. We have to, we have to confront
him together and we've got to get him to resign. Gore can become president and then Gore can run
for his own term in 2000. So Clinton agreed to get together, not knowing why they were getting
together, but they said that they all needed to see him together. He said they rented a room,
banquet room at the Willard Hotel across the street from the White House on 15th Street.
And he said that they had met the night before and they had rehearsed this,
that they're going to, they're going to be strong and they're going to be united and they're going
to tell him that he has to resign or that none of them are going to raise money for anybody
anymore. This is going to be it. They have to resign and make room for Gore. And so he said,
Clinton finally gets to the room and before anybody can even say anything,
he says, I have wronged you friends with this like almost, this quivering,
almost cry in his voice and he begs their forgiveness and he pleads for them not to abandon
him, that what he did was wrong and he's so sorry. He can't believe that he did what he did.
Now, like every president, he's a sociopath. This is probably an act. It's probably all
made up. You have to be a sociopath to be president. You climb to the top on the backs
of everybody else around you. That's just the nature of the system that we have, right?
Right. So the ambassador said to me, nobody ever mentioned resignation. He said, by the end of
the meeting, he said, most of us were crying and then somebody started chanting Clinton,
Clinton, Clinton, and that's how it ended. And that's how he walked out with people chanting
Clinton. And I said, I said, he suckered you. He said, of course he suckered us. He knew exactly
what was going on. He knew exactly what we were there for and he suckered every one of us. He said,
but that was that Clinton magic that people used to talk about. And I said, I saw it that day in
the meeting. I saw it myself. He had a meeting out of his hands. Yeah. Wow. He was positively
inspirational to be around. I've never experienced anything else like it. Reagan, Reagan was like
that in a much more understated way, but I only met Reagan once. But Clinton, like, wow, you really
felt like you were in the presence of greatness with Clinton. Even if you weren't, you felt like
you were. Wow. What is your take on all the different people, like the next presidential
election and the people that we have lined up for the next, I saw something about,
my friend Julian was explaining to me, he saw a report about Mark Cuban, potentially might be
doing it. He apparently like sold his. He sold the Maverick. He sold the Maverick to a guy.
To Adelson's widow. Like what? But not only did he sell it, but he remains in control of basketball
operations. Yeah. That was the deal. The deal was he sold her 95% of the team. He gets to retain
5% and control of basketball operations. That doesn't happen. That's not normal. I'm not aware of
that ever happening. So he has to be running for president. Well, you know, every four years, he's
like, I might run. I might run. I might run. I'm not going to run every four years. Frankly,
I think it would be kind of an intriguing candidate. I really do. And maybe I'm an idiot. I don't know.
It's entirely possible. God knows people have called me an idiot, including two ex-wives, but
it would be intriguing to me. But one of the things that I say on my own show a lot
is that neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have a deep bench, right? The two weakest possible
people that any party could possibly nominate are going to be the nominees, right? You can't ask for
two worse people. Bob Kennedy, I consider to be a friend. I think Bob's an awesome human being.
I believe him when he says that he's not anti-vax, but people think that he's anti-vax, and that
might be enough to just kill his candidacy. But I like the man. I respect him. He's an awesome guy.
Awesome human being. But name another Democrat or another Republican that can be taken seriously.
Maybe, possibly, Nikki Haley. Maybe. Is she the lady who said something about when the
Israel-Palestine thing kicked off? She's like crush them all or something. Yes. She was known.
She took a lot of heat when she was very briefly for a minute, the U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations. I say a minute. It was two years. But she took a lot of heat because a news reporter
took a picture of her speaking with the Israeli ambassador. He was sitting, and so she's on her
knee talking to the ambassador and people like, uh-huh, on our knees to our masters, the Israelis,
right? He should be on his knees in front of her. Right. But I mean, that's the crazy thing,
right? Like, talking about the Israel lobby. I was just watching a great podcast with, um,
Mersheimer. Oh, he's fantastic. John Mersheimer and Lex Friedman. Yeah. Yeah. They did a podcast
where he was talking about the Israel lobby and how much influence. Like, it's unprecedented,
the amount of influence. It's also exempt from reporting laws. Did you know that? It's exempt
from what? Reporting laws. You and I were talking about the Farah Law, the Foreign Agent's Registration
Act, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. But you know who didn't register? Right. Um, APAC, the American
Israel. It's not political action committee. It's like policy. I forget. They're, they're cute with
the title. Um, they don't have to register as representatives of the Israeli government. Wow.
Mm-hmm. They're the only ones that don't. Mm-hmm. Everybody else does. You'll go to prison if you
don't. Right. They don't have to. Why? Yeah. It was fascinating to, to hear like the amount of
influence that Israel has over policy in the United States is like, is unheard of. Shocking. And to the,
and, and John's argument, even though people like to label him anti-Semitic, but he's not,
his argument is that it's to the detriment of Israel. It is. It is to the detriment of Israel.
And there, he said there's also, um, a lot of Jewish Americans or Israeli Americans that are
against the Israeli lobby. Absolutely true. Absolutely true. I'm friends with a bunch of them.
I, I have a good friend, um, Miko Pellet. His father was a four-star general in the IDF and
is one of the country's greatest military heroes in history. And Miko wears a kafia and, you know,
shouts free Palestine at every, at every, uh, demonstration. Yeah. He's a major, uh, part
of the Jewish voices for peace. It's just like when you see the people that are, have the most
chance of becoming president, they all have some sort of tie to Jeffrey Epstein. Like we,
can we just get a president who has no ties to Jeffrey Epstein? That would be a nice change of pace.
Even, you know, I don't, I'm, I've never met, uh, Bob Kennedy, but I, I know he had a lot of numbers
in the black book. Yeah. Um, Bob has tried to deal with that head on. Has he? Yeah. So,
so he was on the flight logs, at least one of the flight logs that was, that was, uh, released.
And he had a legitimate, um, explanation. Uh, his wife at the time was friends with
Ghislaine Maxwell, who was Jeffrey Epstein's, uh, what do you call her? Girlfriend, I guess?
Procuror. Procuror, partner in crime. Yeah. Partner in crime. And her father was, uh,
uh, a very well-known Mossad asset. Very well-known Mossad asset. Um, and, uh,
Bob's wife mentioned that the family was going to fly to Palm Beach for Easter. And she said,
oh, do you need her? You need a lift? And so the whole Kennedy family flew down on Jeffrey Epstein's
low lead express. Oh, wow. Yeah. It was, it was innocent. You know, the amount of reach that
guy had was unbelievable. Oh my God. It was incredible. But that's what makes for a successful
access agent. I, I feel confident in my analysis on Epstein. I believe he was a Mossad access agent.
I'm, I'm very confident about that. You know, I said on your show when we spoke, uh, what,
two years ago now, a year and a half ago, that if you're the Mossad and you want to recruit
somebody at the absolute highest levels of the US government, you're not going to be able to recruit
a president or a vice president or, you know, anybody that's in that direct line. So you
recruit an access agent. You have, you recruit somebody who has access to the people that you
would like to recruit. And so what better way than to have somebody like Jeffrey Epstein,
who had virtually unlimited funds. Nobody was really sure how, but unlimited front funds,
a private island and, and a, an illegal kink that might be kind of attractive to some of those people.
You know, a perversion. I think that's what that was.
My, my good friend, uh, Julian Dory, shout out to Julian Dory, has a great podcast. Um,
he took me to Epstein's house. I went to, I went to go visit a couple of months ago,
his new place in Hoboken, New Jersey. And I was like, I'm like, I haven't been in New York in a
couple of years. I'm like, let's go walk by the Epstein's. It was, he did it. We took a photo in
front of it. It was like real to be standing in front of that place. Is this the, the, the
wide townhouse? The townhouse. Yeah.
Whatever. The $100 million. Legendary townhouse. Yeah. It was like one of the
three highest valued townhouses in all of New York. The amount of people who were in that place.
I just got like chills down my spine thinking of the people that would visit that place every week.
Yeah. He was like, I think, I think Trump was there like at least once a month or maybe like,
maybe once a week, uh, a bunch of other really high level people.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. That's a, uh, incredible story. Oh yeah. The Clintons. Yeah.
They were regulars. You've seen the picture of the Trumps, the Clintons,
and Epstein and Glein Maxwell altogether. The six of them. Yep. Yep. Yep. Sickening. Mm-hmm.
What else are you working on right now? Oh, a couple of things. I've got a sub stack.
I'd appreciate it if, uh, if I could, uh, plug the sub stack. Yes. John Kiriakou.
My follower. Oh yeah, you are. Thank you very much for that. I read it every day. Thank you.
I have fun with it and it's, it's gone well so far. It's gone well. I've got a radio show every
day, which I send around on the sub stack. I have columns in Covert Action Magazine and in
Consortium News. I also write occasionally for, um, The Sheer Post and just recently I started a
monthly column in a, of all places in a newspaper in Amsterdam. Oh wow. They've commissioned me.
Yeah. I'm happy about that. Any more, any more movie consulting gigs? You know,
craziest thing. Well, I, you know, was consulting on this CBS series, uh, True Lies,
and unfortunately it was canceled since I last saw you. Oh no. So yeah, we had fun. It was a good
season. It wasn't the greatest show that's ever been on, on TV, even on broadcast TV, but it was
fun. We had a good time with it. Um, since then, yeah, I had the oddest, I had the oddest thing
happen the other day. Um, I got a, I got a LinkedIn invitation from a guy whose name
sounded vaguely familiar to me, and I generally just accept, unless you're obviously a nut.
I, I just accept LinkedIn invitations. And so I accepted it. As soon as I accepted it, he,
he emailed me or DM'd me and he said, I don't know if you remember me, but I used to be a
vice president at CBS and you pitched a show to me in 2010, a reality show. And I said, oh, yes,
I do remember you. He said, we didn't know what we were doing at CBS, uh, in 2010 on reality. They had,
uh, what's the one, the famous one, the island, um, survivor, survivor. They had survivor and they
had, um, uh, greatest race, what's it called? The Great Ray. I don't know. Whatever that race is.
Okay. Yeah. I don't remember. So they had those, but he said they, they just sort of stumbled into
those. They didn't really know what they were doing. And he said, I no longer work at CBS. I have my
own production company and I want to buy that show. And I said, oh, great. So I flew out to LA
and I met his whole team and they bought the option and we'll see where it goes.
That's incredible. Yeah. And you got your new book you're working on with by the cemeteries.
Yeah. So I did one called remains of the day, um, the ultimate guide to Washington DC's historic
cemeteries that was supposed to be out yesterday. Oh, really? Yeah. It was supposed to be out
yesterday. They've delayed it a little bit, uh, because, uh, they didn't like the design of the
cover the way it came back. Is that with Tony? Uh, no. Okay. Uh, this is, this one is with, uh,
rare bird books. Okay. It's an imprint of, uh, Simon and Schuster. Oh, nice. And then they liked it
so much they commissioned, uh, three more. Um, so I'm halfway done with the mafia graves of New
York city. And I just now started the historic graves of Chicago and the country Western graves
of Nashville. That's a cool credible. So I sent, I signed the contract and then the publisher called
me back and he says, Hey, what about the graves of America's most notorious serial killers? And I
said, uh, all right. I said, listen, let me finish these four books first. And then, yeah, I said,
the thing about serial killers, most of them, their families were so ashamed of what they had
done that they just cremated them. So there are no graves and most of the rest of them are just
buried there in the prison yard and those cemeteries are off limits. So I said, we'll, we'll figure
something out. We can write something. That's incredible, man. And then one more thing I wanted
to ask you about, we talked about this off camera last time, but, uh, can you tell the story of
working on the movie Bruno? How did that come about? This'll be a nice wrap up for the podcast.
So I, I have a dear friend who, um, is the head of media and entertainment at a consulting firm
in Washington. And he does a lot of logistical work, you know, they want to, they want to film in
a place that looks like 1950s Moscow, let's say, or they want to film in a place that looks like
Havana and you can't film there. So he'll find them a place. So he calls me one day and he said,
Hey, um, I want to introduce you to a filmmaker. They're going to need your expertise on the
Middle East. I said, okay, great. And I had already consulted on a bunch of movies,
the born ultimatum and the kite runner and there were a bunch. So, um,
so I do a conference call and, and it's Sasha Baron Cohen and the company was this,
this LLC. It was like river, something river LLC. So I Googled it and there's nothing. There's no,
like there's literally nothing. They just made it up for this one film. The production company.
Yeah. Yeah. So they're usually shell companies. It's a shell company. Yeah.
So we got on the phone and Sasha introduces himself and says, I don't know if you know anything
about my characters. I said, Oh, I know all of your characters. I said, listen, Bruno, I almost
pissed myself, but I've been watching you since Ali G when it first appeared on, uh, on HBO. And
he says, okay, so you know Bruno, Bruno is a gay Austrian fashion journalist. And I said,
yes, very flamboyant. Yes. Okay. He said, I want to put Bruno in front of bona fide terrorists.
He said, I'm thinking Al Qaeda, maybe Hezbollah and I want to show them polaroids of men having
hardcore anal sex. And I want to ask them in the Bruno character if this is a form of torture
and should these men be sent to Guantanamo? And I said, Oh, that's an exceptionally bad idea.
He goes, really? I said, Oh, listen, just as a general rule,
you shouldn't mess with the religious types. They're nuts. I said, they'll kill you.
They'll kill your crew. They'll go out onto the street and kill people who remind them of you.
And he said, but I've got to do it and it's got to be convincing. And I said, well,
what we could do is, you know, there are still bona fide terrorists out there who are not religious.
They're communists and they're kind of retired. They all live in Damascus, you know, popular front
for the liberation of Palestine, Abu Nidal organization, the Democratic front for the
liberation of Palestine. And he said, yeah, do you know how to get in touch with them?
I said, I think I could probably figure it out. And he said, where should we film this thing?
And I said, well, do you have you have any locations in mind? He said, yeah, Jordan.
And I said, yeah, Jordan's a good, that's a good choice, but you got to bring the Jordanians in
on it because they have one of the best intelligence services in the, in the Middle East.
You're not going to be able to get away with anything. He said, absolutely not.
Nobody can be in on the gag. Nobody. And I said, no, that's, that's not going to work.
I said, well, we could do it. I said, you know, I was talking to the Libyan ambassador the other
night at dinner and, uh, and they're dying to have Hollywood films done in Libya. This is right
before Gaddafi was killed a year before. And he said, no, won't do that. He said, as a Jew,
I just can't go to Libya. I'd be too afraid. And I said, well, we could do it in Morocco,
but Morocco has very unique architecture and it's not going to, it's not going to look like Palestine.
And he said, why, I think we should just do it in Jordan, but not tell the Jordanians. And I said,
no, I have an idea. I said, let, let's do it. Let's do it in Syria. I said, I know the Syrian
ambassador and, um, I can call the Syrian ambassador and try and get it all, you know, online.
And he said, no, no, I'm going to go to Newport beach tomorrow and there's a Syrian consulate
in Newport beach. And I said, no, no, this is what you're paying me for. So let me call the Syrian
ambassador. The next day, 11 o'clock at night, my wife and I are in bed and we're reading and the
phone rings and I look at the phone and it says Sasha Baron Cohen. And I show my wife, look at
this. It's like 1130 at night. So I said, hello, Sasha. And he goes, mate with this, he has a very
thick British accent. He goes, mate, I think I fucked up, mate. And I said, oh, oh, don't tell me you
went to that Syrian consulate in Newport beach. He said, he walked into the Syrian consulate.
The guy saw him came out from behind the bulletproof glass and said, stop. I know who you are.
I know what you do and you are not welcome in Syria. And I was like, damn it. Wow. And I said,
okay, I got to double down. If we're going to do it in Jordan, you have to tell the Jordanians that
you're doing it. And he said, absolutely not. I said, Sasha, if we have bona fide terrorists
flying in from Damascus on the same day to go to your hotel room, they're going to be on you
like white on rice. And he said, no, I got to risk it. I said, okay. So the plan was,
he was going to fly out to Amman and then I was going to fly out the day later.
So only he and one cameraman flew out and he told me later when I arrived that when he landed,
they got off the plane and they go through customs and immigration and there's a guy
standing there with a sign that says, Sasha Baron Cohen. And he says, I'm Sasha Baron Cohen.
And then he tells the cameraman, John got us a limo. John didn't give them any limo.
So they get in the car and he said, they're driving through town.
And he says to the guy, where are we going? And the driver says, we're going to the royal palace.
His majesty is a huge fan. And he says, these enormous iron gates open and they go onto the
palace grounds and there's the king and he's standing next to the director of the Jordanian
intelligence service. So they get out of the car and the king says, Sasha Baron Cohen, I am your
biggest fan. He said, Bruno, I mean, Borat, I almost wet myself. He says, but I want you to know
we're happy to have you in Jordan. Anything you need, you call my friend here. He'll take care of
you. Anything you want. And I said the next day when I got there, I said, I told you, you hadn't
even arrived in the country yet. And they knew exactly what you were doing and when you were doing
it. That's crazy. So we get these guys and you hadn't told them. No, I didn't say anything to
anybody. I had a nondisclosure agreement. I didn't even tell my wife. Nothing. So
we meet with these two guys, one from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine General
Command and one from the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine. So we're at this table.
They're at this table. I'm standing against the wall with my notepad like I always do. I'm not.
I'm just standing against the wall. So we get to the point where he pulls out the Polaroids.
And dude, these were hardcore gay anal porn. And he asks them with that very effeminate,
flamboyant accent, if is this torture and should these men be sent to Guantanamo?
And the one, like they're adjusting their trifocals. They're old men. They're in their 70s.
And he looks at the Polaroid like, what? And he goes, no, no, no. No, this is not good.
This is not good. And he puts it down on the table. Sasha had specifically said, I want the guy to
leap across the table to try to strangle me. That's how angry I want him to be. And I said,
well, I mean, this is pretty offensive for these guys. He goes, no, no, this is not good.
And he puts it down. And then the other guy picks it up and he looks at it and he's like trying
to adjust his glasses like what? And he goes, oh, oh, this haram, not good. And that was it.
And we're just like sitting there or they're sitting there. I'm standing and they're like looking
around like, can I get a cup of coffee or how long is this going to take or whatever? And we're
like, okay, cut. Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. And that was it. They didn't even put it in the
movie. Wow. It was a disaster. It was a disaster. So the other thing was the second part of that
Middle East scene. I only consulted on the Middle East part. I should add, I found these guys in
the Damascus telephone book. No way. I figured they're old men. Nobody remembers them. Nobody
remembers them shooting up the Rome airport and killing six people or hijacking a TWA plane to
Cairo, right? They're just living in these little apartments in Damascus and their names and numbers
are in the phone book. So I just called them. Hey, would you do this? We're going to pay all
your expenses. We'll give you a hundred dollars. You know, be in this documentary about the peace
process. So we go on to Israel. I actually flew home from Jordan. He went to Israel without me.
And he went to the Western Wall, right? But he went in leather boots that went up to his mid thigh
and pink hot pants. Need a photo, Steve. And a leather vest with no shirt underneath. And he's
covered in hair like a gorilla, right? And he said, as soon as he got there,
he saw this nearby group of Yeshiva students with a rabbi. And the rabbi spat on him and called
him a dirty. And he said, next thing he knew, these Yeshiva students are just wailing on him.
And they beat the shit out of him to the point where it was the only time in the filming of the
movie that he broke character. And he said, no, no, it's a joke. It's for a movie. I'm Sasha
Baron Cohen. It's just a joke. It's a joke. They were wailing on him. They blackened both of his
eyes and he had to stop filming for two weeks to get his. We'll see if we can find a picture
to get his eyes swelling to go down. Oh my God.
Look at him riding the cannon. Oh my God. I gotta say, it was an absolute pleasure to work with
him. He's a genius. And that's not a word that I throw around lightly. The man's a genius.
Sometimes his genius is too cutting edge for people. But I found him to be absolutely brilliant.
Yeah. And the movie, the movie The Dictator. Oh my God. I just rewatched it a couple of weeks ago.
Oh my God. Even my son is like, how did I never see this movie before? It's hilarious. He's running
in the race and just shooting everyone that's next to him. Oh God. Incredible. Incredible story.
John, thanks again. Thank you. I really enjoyed it as always. We'll have you back again in the
future, I hope. Substack. Substack. I put everything I write, everything I record. I've got a TV
show once a week. I have a radio show every day. It all goes on Substack. Perfect. I'll link it all
below. Thank you. And let's get you on your flight. Goodbye everybody. Fantastic. Thank you.
