Hello, world. Today's guest is Jihee Bustamante. Jihee is a former covert CIA intelligence
officer. Specifically, she was an operational targeter whose job was collecting intelligence
against one of the highest priority threats to U.S. security. Jihee operated and carried
out intelligence operations with her husband, Andrew, in Latin America, East and South
Asia, Europe, and the South Pacific. Jihee and Andrew have one of the most fascinating
podcasts called Every Day Spy, where they discuss the espionage tactics they've learned
in the CIA that also benefit everyday life. Without further ado, please enjoy this podcast
with Jihee Bustamante.
Jihee, is that how you pronounce your name? Yeah. Bustamante. Thank you for doing this.
I've really been looking forward to talking to you. Your husband is one of the most fascinating
people to talk to as well, and I love listening to your guys' show, Every Day Spy.
Awesome. Thanks for having me. I am excited, but also nervous to be here, because I see
Andy as the cooler one.
You see him as the cooler one?
No, Andy is the cooler one. I am pretty sure.
Yeah. I've been listening to your guys' podcast all morning, and it's just so riveting. Especially
the stories about how you guys met in the CIA and everything. Well, go ahead. Don't
let me get ahead of myself. For the people that don't know who you are, explain a little
bit about who you are and what your background is.
Okay. My name is Jihee Bustamante. I am married to Andrew Bustamante. We were both CIA officers.
That's where we met. We met on orientation day, basically. I was a target at the CIA.
There are different types of targetters, but I think a lot of people see in the movies
are kinetic targetters, like the military guys who literally target a person to drop
a bomb on them with a drone. There are targeting analysts who are people who find those people
and analyze where they might be or who might be around them that's also targetable. I did
operational targeting. I was given instructions. We want to know this is the intel. This is
the intel that we have a gap in and we have to fill. My job was to find who could fill
that gap in our intel and then identify the most likely people that we could approach
to give us that intel and then put together an entire dossier on them so they could be
approached. So they could be bumped, so they could be approached, so we can make friends
with them and then convince them that telling us their secrets is the best thing for them.
Okay. I asked your husband this the first time he came on the show and I'm going to ask you the
same thing because I'm interested in your perspective. What in your mind are the biggest
misconceptions of the CIA?
Funny story. I never intended to work for the CIA, so I am probably one of those people
who have huge misconceptions in the beginning. I applied to the CIA on a whim. I was actually
looking to join the Department of State or any other federal government agency. It was
my last year of college and I was at a job fair and I walked right by their booth and
my applications to the federal government were going and nobody had called me back and
I was getting worried and I thought, you know what? I was like, last ditch effort, I'll
apply to the CIA. There's an application online. I didn't stop to talk to them. I was like,
oh, those CIA people. So I get a call back after I apply and every step of the interview
process, I had these misconceptions where I was like, I am not a James Bond. I am not
like, I am not a liar. I don't want to do this shady stuff. Like, I am not comfortable
with like overthrowing government. So every step of the way, right? But every step of
the interview process, I'm meeting these people who are just like you and me. They are very
friendly people. They are very intelligent people. And I start to learn more about the
agency and its mission. So I think that a lot of the misconceptions is that the CIA is
like a dirty place, right? That people without morals work there and we do dirty sneaky things
and we're working on like black ops or doing, you know, not cool black ops, but like overthrowing
governments and manipulating people into doing things they don't want to do. And none of
that is not true, right? Like people just like you and me work there, really intelligent
people doing really incredibly important work. Like intelligence is an absolutely necessary
part of government interaction, right? Like when you're at high level, I mean, even at
low level, honestly, different types of intelligence, but on a government level for sure, intelligence
is crucial. Diplomacy is fed by intelligence. You can't have diplomacy without it. You
won't be successful at diplomacy without it, in my opinion.
Now, were you, I mean, what was your perspective, your outsider perspective before you actually
got in and started learning it and meeting people?
So I was a social worker before I joined the agency. And I was working with refugees and
asylum seekers primarily, who were being relocated to the United States. So my vision of what
the CIA was before I joined was purely from the movies, you know, really cool gadgets
and everybody knows how to do kung fu, everybody knows five languages. You know, everybody
was cool and good looking. And it was really, I'm a huge fan of James Bond. So I really
was like, this is the agency. Once I got there, I realized it's a diverse place. And one
of the biggest things that really hit me when I got to the agency is how many different
jobs there actually are. So all the movies are about the exciting case officer, right?
James Bond, the Ethan Hunt. But you get there and there are HR people. There are people
who clean the waste baskets. There are, you know, cooks. There are analysts. There are
mechanics. There are graphic designers. There are, yes, like there's a print shop there.
People work that, you know, like there are IT people. So it's just like any other, it
was insane, like how cool it was to walk in and to see the seal and you have to get past
the guards with your special badge and all of that felt super cool. But you walk in and
it's cubicles and people doing like a plethora of different jobs, like any other business,
like any other government organization to keep it running. You just happen to work on
things that are super cool that most people don't know about. And that's what I enjoyed
the most was kind of having this insider insight into world events that I was already interested
in. And then I had an even, even more of an insider perspective where I was like, this
is really cool. And I can affect things in a way, even if a small way that nobody will
ever know about. And for me, being behind the scenes is huge. Like I love being behind
the scenes, like affecting somebody that nobody ever knows I even touched. That's, that makes
me feel good. Right. I see the end result and I'm like, boom, I did that great. Now,
when you got there, did you get to sort of choose the path that you took? Or did they
do that for you? So in the interview process that I went through, I was, I was going for,
they have different tracks. So I was going for a certain track and there were like three
different job descriptions that I could go for. I picked one, I entered, I decided shortly
after they have a really long orientation period, and then a really long training period.
So I decided I originally was a desk officer and I decided that targeting was a better
fit for me. When I entered in 2007, targeting was brand new. They had just started it. It
used to be that case officers themselves would do that kind of work. They would be the ones
that found targets and figured out how to approach them. But it really wasn't efficient
for them to be doing that. They really need to be out in the field meeting people. So
they created an entire job description for people who specialized in finding who they
were going to meet. So then all they have to do is spend an hour with me and I say, this
is the guy, here's his photo. Here's his family. Here's everything we know about him. He's
going to be at this place at this time. He likes this kind of stuff. Go, you know, go
meet him and be friends. If they spend an hour with me, it saves them a ton of time. I can
go much more in depth because I'm interested than the case officer would be able to because
they have a million other things going on. So, yeah. So for me, I was able to change
tracks during the training period and then be certified as a targeter.
Okay. And then how did you meet Andrew initially? Were you guys both training or?
We were in orientation together. So they enter everybody no matter what their track is together.
And then that's when they do all the HR stuff, right? Like here's how your health insurance
works and here's how your paycheck works. Make sure you sign up for medical benefits,
all the intro stuff that you don't think about happening at the CIA. So we met, I think, I
noticed him after the first week and he was always seated between two females. But I decided,
yeah, I saw him from a distance and I was like, I'm going to meet that guy. And so it
took me about three weeks to get a seat next to him and start up a conversation. And he was
great. As soon as I introduced myself, he was like, do you want to go out on a date Wednesday?
I was like, yes, yes, I would. Very much. Yeah, it was great. So the bummer for him was I was
dealing with an anxiety disorder at the time that had just kind of, I'd had it for about six
months undiagnosed. So I was having all this anxiety constantly and it was making me really
physically ill. And so he asked me out on the date, the night of the date, he called me to ask
directions to my house. And I was like, I was throwing up. I was like, I was like, I can't
go. He's like, are you like, do you want coffee instead? Do you want, he kept trying, trying,
you know, and like, I just can't. And that was the very end of our orientation. I was like, I can
never see this guy again. Like he makes me throw up. I have too much anxiety. I like him too
much. I was like, this sucks. Like I'm never going to see him again. So then we spent like, I
think a month working on the same floor in our offices, completely avoiding each other until I
bumped into him at a staff meeting. And then I was like, I was 27. Wow. Yeah. Yeah, it was intense.
And I was, he was a very patient man, because we had a lot of tea dates when I was like, I'm
really nauseous right now. Like you make me so nervous. Now, this like parlayed into you guys
eventually working together, like right as a team. Yes. And that was that like before you guys got
like into a relationship relationship, or was it the relationship first, and then you guys teamed
up together? So it was the relationship first. And, you know, part of what brings us together
are our commonalities. So we both have an interest and a background in Asia. And that's the region
that we were working. So we were in different offices, but the same region. And so we both had,
so I was, I lived in Japan from the ages of two to six. And I spoke Japanese when we lived there.
And then we moved back to the States after that. So I had this, you know, my like, my like pivotal,
my growing years were in Japan. So I had this, yeah, so I had this really strong connection.
What were you doing in Japan? My parents, my dad's Venezuelan. So my mom met my dad in Fort
Lauderdale, moved with him to Venezuela. I was born there. And they'd converted to Buddhism,
a Buddhism that the sect is the Nichiting Shoshu Buddhism from Japan. So they had friends who
had already gone to like explore this Buddhism more in Japan. And my parents were trying to
figure out how to get there. My dad found a school that did, had a master's in architectural photography.
So he enrolled in the school. He like, learned Japanese, enrolled in architectural photography
school. And they just took us. Well, I was just me at the time. So yeah, my, my mom, I'm two,
and my mom goes halfway across the world. And they, they like adventure. My parents, yeah.
And you learned English in Japan. I mean, you were obviously old enough to already know English,
but you learned Japanese at a very young age. Yeah. So Japanese, Spanish and English were my
first three languages, which was interesting when I moved back because I moved to St. Petersburg.
And I, my second grade teacher tried to hold me in my first grade. My first grade teacher tried to
hold me back because she said that knowing so many languages made me slow, which, you know,
it was 1986. That's okay. But my mom pushed back and I ended up in gifted class instead.
Teach their own. Exactly. But ever since then, I was, you know, when we got to the agency,
you know, I, I want, I had Spanish. I was like, I can pick Japanese right back up. I had enough
of it. And that was my interest. And then Andy has Chinese and his, he has a degree in East
Asian studies. And so we had this common interest in that region and in working the targets in that
region. So it was natural for us to eventually end up working the same targets. I don't think we
were ever at the same time in the same office, but that doesn't mean that we weren't working the same
targets, if that makes sense. Like, for example, they'll have a regional office that will do Asia,
but then they'll have another office that does a subject matter like counterproliferation.
Right. So you can be, have two people, one in a regional office, one in counterproliferation,
and then they overlap because counterproliferation happens everywhere in the world. So that's how
it ended up happening. And where are you guys at at this point? Like, where is the CIA headquarters?
Like that you guys, where's the building that you guys are working at? So we were in Langley at the
main headquarters. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And we were there for quite some time before, you know, doing
TDYs and things like that. So. And how long was it before you guys actually went out into the field
and went to Asia together? So we. And where'd you guys go to China? We, I don't think. You can't say?
Yeah. We can't say the exact location. Asia. Okay. But we did a number of TDYs separately. So we had
started traveling for the agency almost as soon as we joined. Oh, okay. Right. Like him going, you
know, I would go one country, he would go another country at different times as the office, as the
mission dictated. And then eventually I knew that I wanted to be assigned overseas for a longer
period of time. So I started, you know, just putting a little bug in my manager's ear, like, I will go
literally anywhere. I was like, Oolambatar, I don't care. Like just send me overseas. I wanted the
excitement of being in the field because it's the work is different, right? Like headquarters work is
slower field work, like you are on the ground real time, like stuff happens, you know, like
where we were, there was a, like a small terrorist attack while we were assigned there, you know,
and I'm like, it's action, like stuff is happening real time, like I'm working with the foreign
service there. You know, it's just incredible. So we, I think we were together,
I think we were together three years before we were sent out for a long assignment. And that was,
it was amazing. What is it about, about Asia and those cultures that excite you or interest you?
So I think a lot of it has to do with my childhood, just the fact that I, because my first memories
are of Japan, and because my parents are Buddhist. So even when we came back, that culture continued.
It's just comfortable for me. I like, so I definitely feel American. I am definitely
Americanized, but I also have this very strong, like I understand the, the culture of putting
your community before yourself, which is very Asian, right? Like Americans are very independent.
You usually put yourself before others, but in Asia, like when, like when coronavirus started,
Japanese people just put on a mask. They were like, for the greater good, no problem.
I think Andy struggles more with that. But for me, because it's something for my childhood,
I mean, it's just very natural. It makes sense. Well, it's interesting because there's such
an ancient culture. Like Andy was telling me that he went to, he was doing a tour there,
I believe it was with you. And someone showed you guys like a mill or some sort of building
that was twice as old as America. Yeah, it was like everything in perspective. It was like a house,
like a wooden house and a mill still standing in like pristine condition because they take care of
it. Yeah, like twice as old as America. And we're like, wow, the culture here. I mean, we've, we've
been to a lot of countries in Asia and, you know, China is one of those places where you look at
China's history, you know, like, like their history is there's such longevity there. And the China
that we know today is not original China. Like they have like looking at their progression
over history, I just think is so fascinating. America is harder because we're so young. So
we're right now witnessing, you know, our own progression, but it's not like looking at 3,000
years worth of history, you know, I mean, Native Americans were here, but we don't have that written
history. It makes you think is that where we could be going if we last that long? You know,
it's really interesting. I saw I'm a giant dork and I am a huge fan of Star Trek. And like Star
Trek Next Gen is one of my favorites. And so the whole idea that one day we could be like this,
you know, utopia on earth, at least, where, you know, like money isn't like, I think there's no
currency. I'm pretty sure in Star Trek, everybody has roles they fill. Everybody's needs are mad.
There's this definite part of me that's like, that could happen one day
in theory. But communism is also a good theory. And like, practically, it will probably never,
ever work. So it's, it's one of those things where, you know, I have faith in humanity,
but I'm also realistic. You know, we could do a lot of things. Lots of things are possible.
Are we ever going to get there? I don't know. It would be, I mean, it just seems like the world
would be such a better place if, but if we didn't have this inherently tribal DNA, where we're just
not like we said, like I said, are like territorial apes with thermo nuclear weapons. Yeah. And,
you know, unfortunately, that's just what we are as human beings. And I, I can't see
in the near future any way to get past that threshold. Yeah. But I figured out,
if we could somehow figure out how to get past that, I think, you know,
like I said, your vision of some utopian world of people that all get along and there's no
borders or boundaries and. Right. I mean, I agree with you. I think near future, I don't see it.
Is it, is it possible? Yes.
There is a ton of work that would need to be done. I think I was just reading a book that was talking
about like the scarcity mindset and the scarcity mindset is what drives people to hoard and to
compete and to be like, you know, there might be five apples and five of us, but I'm going to take
three just in case. And then like that, that mindset gets us all in trouble. Like if you
look at, if you really looked at resources and how they could be divvied out, like if we actually
entertained all the options that were possible, there really would be enough for everybody.
Like there would at least be enough for basics for everybody, but that doesn't seem to be
good enough for enough people like people who have control, people who have leverage.
So that just makes, you know, creates inequality. It keeps inequality going.
So yeah, I just, I think it's a long road. I think it's definitely possible. I think
people are working towards it. What do you think the best way for people to get out of that scarcity
mindset is? So I think it's just believing that there is enough, believing like not being scared
that at the end of this, like when I finish my sandwich, there will be no more sandwich.
Like just don't be afraid, right? Like just know that I'm going to eat this meal and by the time
the next meal needs to come around, it'll be there. There's enough, right? Like maybe it's not
going to be a, you know, maybe it's not going to be a steak and a giant baked potato, but it will
be enough. Like you will eat, you will be fed. So just knowing, you know, like investing money,
right? Like don't hoard your money. Like use it because there will be more on the other end.
You know, like if you keep working and you keep moving forward, then you're not going to be without.
So that's one of the biggest, biggest philosophical questions in life, right? Money versus time.
Yeah. People chasing, you know, and neglecting their families and their children to chase money
into work. When you realize by the time most people who attain that extreme level of success
or money or wealth or whatever it is, they realize once they get to the top of the mountain,
it's not what they thought it was. Yeah, exactly. Andy says, Andy refers to it as looking under
skirts. He's like, he's like the more, the more people I meet, the more networking I do, he's
like the more skirts I get to look under and the more I realize that's not what I thought it was
going to look like under there. Yeah. And so it's really, I think about like really understanding
what is your goal? Like what is your goal? What is the purpose you're driving towards? Because I
think most of us, I mean, I admit this, I didn't think about it at first either. Like I got to the
agency and I was like, I have made it. Like my parents were like, you're going to college and
you're going to be a professional. So I went to college and I became a professional. I worked at
the CIA. I was like, I'm going to work here for 30 years and get my pension. Like woo, like I am
success. And then we left. We are brought to you by Manscaped, who is the best in men's below the
waist grooming. Manscaped offers precision engineered tools for your family jewels. They
obsess over their technology developments to provide you the best tools for your grooming
experience. Manscaped is trusted by over two million men worldwide. The lawnmower 3.0 comes
inside their brand new perfect package 3.0, which comes with everything you need to keep trimmed,
cut free and smelling nice downstairs. Their third generation trimmer features a cutting edge
ceramic blade to reduce grooming accidents. And this is very important if you want to take care
of the most important thing in your life. When I tell you this is premium, I mean premium. The
battery will last up to 90 minutes so you can shave longer. And the waterproof technology
allows you to groom with this thing in the shower. They've even upgraded to a 7000 RPM motor with
quiet stroke technology. Don't make the mistake I did. Don't use the same trimmer on your face
that you use on your nasty nut sack. Get 20% off and free shipping with the code concrete
at manscaped.com. That's 20% off with free shipping at manscaped.com and use the code concrete.
Unlock your confidence and always use the right tools for the job with Manscaped.
We had our son and Andy was like, let's get closer to family. Let's do something for ourselves.
Because when you work for something like the CIA or the military, your life is not your own.
You have signed a contract to perform a mission and I definitely believe in the importance of that
but you have to go in with open eyes. Your life is not your own. You can't just pick. If they say
you're going to a war zone, you're going to a war zone. For the greater good, the good of the mission.
So when we left, I was lost. Andy was like, freedom. I'm going to do what I want to do
but I was completely lost when we left because I was like, I just met my goal and now I'm
doing what? What is my actual purpose in life? Because I realized that wasn't it. The fact that
I had left, that wasn't my actual personal goal. I had been following somebody else's dream the
whole time and I met it and my parents were very proud but I wasn't doing that for myself.
So it's like the person who's working 60 hours a week, not seeing their family,
trying to reach a monetary goal. Their family might not care about that and do they actually
care? They might think that they're doing it to provide for their family but are they doing it
because they think they have to? Would they be happier making a third less money and spending
more time with their family? It's just critical thinking has to go into it, I think.
Now how did your worldview or your perspective on politics when you were younger get changed
when you got into the CIA? Because I believe on one of your podcasts you talk about your parents
were hippies when you were up and they raised you. You had a very liberal progressive mindset
before you entered the CIA. So my progression was my parents are very liberal, both of them still
and then I went to undergrad and I hung out with tons of people who were like left of liberal,
who are they called progressive as was the word and I was very progressive and then I went to
law school and law school was the first time where I it was a smaller environment so my undergrad
was a very large school so you kind of pick your niche and you hang out with those people right?
It's like how people tend to hang out with like-minded folks. Law school was smaller so I was forced to
hang out with whoever was there and then I was forced to hear all these other perspectives
and other perspectives from people who were intelligent enough to explain them. So suddenly
I'm hearing not just another person's perspective, not like a regurgitation of-
Like a bumper sticker.
Yeah exactly but people who like could defend their ideas, people who were open to hearing
other people's ideas right? Like the whole point when you practice law is creating a solid argument
but that argument can go either way right? I mean that's what you have prosecution and
defense. You have two sides constantly so you're constantly practicing making both sides of the
argument and it was this really powerful exercise for me like three years of constantly having to
think about both sides of an argument and that was the point where I started to shift center
and you were meeting more like some folks were there were some older students there some people
had different life experiences so you're starting to be exposed to different kinds of people and
then when I got to agency the agency is full of brilliant people really just sharp intelligent
patriotic you know people like I had had friends from all over the world before but suddenly I'm
with people who not only are from all over the world but are like very American as well
so some so I started getting this much broader perspective of government and government's role
and how other countries are perceived and I didn't agree with everything there I mean there are
still some things where you know I I think it's really important for intelligence and diplomacy
to be able to step into the shoes of another culture of another country and that didn't
always happen there some people were much too um like if you talk to some state department
workers you'll see you'll see it too where they're much too America forward and I feel like that's
a mistake like you need to keep that perspective because that is your goal like your your mission
is to represent and do what's best for America but if you can't understand what the Russians or
the Chinese are thinking and feeling you're you're gonna miss it you know you're gonna miss the mark
so um like on like you have to understand motivations and vulnerabilities and that's
really the only way to do it so when I met when I started working with all these amazing people
at the CA um my perspective was just broadened I think and then I met people you're not supposed to
be um uh political there and so there was much less you're not supposed to be no okay yeah um yeah
we're I mean I think any federal government agency is like that you're not supposed you are supposed
to represent the government the government changes political parties constantly um so you're not
really supposed to like like there aren't a lot of conversations where people are like you feel
like you're inundated with liberal ideas or inundated with conservative ideas people just
speak their mind they speak in an intelligent way and there's always reasoning behind it and for me
that's you know there has to be there has to be depth to the conversation like if you just are if
somebody's just spewing ideas there's there has to be more more to that right did you ever have any
moral qualms with some of your missions that you got sent on when you were when you first got in
there and you had to get sent over I mean I don't know how much of the work that you were involved
in was like part of like regime changes or like greed on parts of yeah different things the U.S.
was doing in other countries so I worked um I worked covert influence for a period and I loved it
um the covert influence yeah so there's covert influence and there's covert action covert action
is like babe pigs right like they went in and nobody was supposed to know that it was America
covert influence is much more subtle it's it's like um what russia does to us basically um you
know changing hearts trying to influence elections and stuff influencing hearts and minds um to get
a certain result right okay so you're really targeting people and I have this social work
background I studied psychology for a bit and and college and I just thought it was so fascinating
like you think about your end goal like where do you want people to get to like what conclusion do
you want people to get to and then how do you lead them there verbally right through propaganda or
through newspaper articles or through um you know just verbal like ideas right like idea sharing um
you know dropping leaflets right like it's just such a fascinating process to me so covert influence
I would say was the closest place where I I thought I was luckily never put on anything that I felt
was super dicey um there we did I did learn that uh the government there are rules so that was
something that I was actually comforting because I'm in this office and um we were trying to plan
something and then the lawyers are on all of our projects and they're like you cannot do this and
we're like oh and they're like you cannot incite violence like you cannot put anything out there
that's going to make people like if you think in any way that it's going to make people violent
towards each other you are not allowed to do that and I was I felt it just made me feel better I was
like all right there's rules here like lawyers on my case like that's great like all right you
know let's do this you know right black op and you know with with some morals here um but yeah
there's definitely been things done and CIA's passed right that I wouldn't have agreed with
I was looking never to be in a situation where I was you know where I was never looking to never
be put in a position where I had to decide whether I was going to go along with something I was
not comfortable with or whether I was going to have to leave um because that's always an option
you know um and when I was interviewed that was one of the questions they asked me because I'm
Buddhist I was a social worker and the interviewer was like how do you reconcile these things about you
with all the gray area the CIA is going to have and I was like you know you just decide on the spot
like you have to decide case by case there's no black and white every situation is completely
individual so yeah I I really love what uh how Andrew described the the difference between black
and white and good and bad like people's people's moral judgments that they make in the real world
by and large are good or bad right or left and it's all funneled into these two binary categories
and it was super fascinating to me how the CIA expanded that view and that way of thinking the
critical thinking and the the cognitive uh what was the word the cognitive
uh dissociation or something like that that basically how the CIA adapted a black and white
way of looking at the world into a basically a color wheel of not just gray areas but actually
color yeah to where you have to analyze situations depending on the different elements and the
different information that you're getting from people whether you completely disagree with this
person if this person is the scum of the earth child murderer whatever it could be but you need to
be in this person's life and deal with this person in order to get valuable intelligence from them
right because that was super interesting yeah and I I mean for me personally part of that's
like what's the greater good here right like maybe you're dealing with this horrible person
but what are they giving you for the greater good I think on the other hand like most people
so I worked with a lot of refugees and there are absolutely horrendous stories about what happens
to people who become refugees before they become refugees right so you read all these
horrendous stories of like child soldiers and you know like neighbors turning on neighbors and
rape being used as a weapon of war and like like there are so many scenarios out there
that the average person who lives a comfortable life does not eat like cannot even comprehend
and when you're in a scenario where essentially every decision is would be considered a bad
decision where like in your black and white it's all black you still have to choose and you have
to be comfortable with whatever that choice is like you can't just stand there you have to make a
choice so you can't put everything into a good and bad bucket there's a giant gray area of
you know like if if I have to choose between
you know between dealing with like some kind of horrible person who has ties to terrorism
and I know that they are going to be able to give me information that stops an attack that
saves 50 lives like you're gonna give that dude money you're gonna take him out like you're gonna
be friends with him because he has the ability to do good on the other end whether he knows it or
not right like those are the real life choices that's what happens in real life I think that when
you are living I mean and I live a comfortable life I just happen to have had the exposure right
I think when you're living a comfortable life and you're not exposed to the like to the realities
that are out there it's easy to judge it's easy to judge and be like oh I wouldn't have done that I
wouldn't have done that okay well when you are in these situations and you're standing there and you
have to make the decision let's see what your decision actually is right and you have to change
I think your idea like you have to shift from what's right and wrong to what is the objective
right especially when you're doing stuff for the for the government like military CIA
like what is the objective here what is the mission here and how do you accomplish that it's not
about what do I personally think is right and wrong how do you obtain your objective how do you
complete your mission because that mission is serving all of us right like whether we know it
or not there are missions happening right now that maybe we would disagree with but they're
serving us they're protecting us right so yeah I had a one guy on here who was uh he was a drone
pilot yeah for flying those drones over Yemen those killer drones and he was like he was recruited
by I believe it was the air force that was that was heading that program but he was said he was like
19 years old 18 years old and and they were having him pull the trigger on these drones that were
blowing up you know people and him he being 18 years old watching people get you know blown up
in countries like Yemen or whatever and it scarred him it really messed his head up yeah
having to make those decisions and or whether he was making the decisions or not he's probably
following orders like pulling the trigger on those drones and watching these people suffer
like on the king watching the infrared camera these people like crawling and bleeding and yep
yeah that stuff can be terrifying to you like any human right and think about like
like all the people involved in that decision right so he was pulling the trigger so he probably
felt directly responsible but there's a chain of command right there are other people making that
decision people who found that location to target like the guy in charge who makes the
decision to target it who like people who know that that house might have the guy's kids in it
do we target or not right like there are there there are tons of people who are involved in
this decision and it there are so many factors that weigh in right and i i don't it's it's it's
a sad reality right like i i don't advocate collateral damage and war but it happens and
it's a reality and people have to make those decisions war is not clean it's just unfortunate and i um
um when we were working uh we were working the middle east and i was working with a delta force
guy and he was the nicest guy ever like a family man he um he had actually like his own nonprofit
that like helped women learn self-defense and just the nicest guy and he was teaching this
triage class and starts telling this story about you know missions where he went in like
his missions were specifically to go in and kill people right like you and your team are going to
go into this place you are going to kill the people there like you know very close range
shooting or hand-to-hand combat like telling stories about team members that he lost on those
missions um and so i asked i asked him i was like what kind of psychological care do they give you
because there's no way so for the cia they do a ton of psychological testing beforehand yes before
they hire you so i'm assuming that part of all the special forces is also tons of psychological
testing um you know what on paper and you know through exercises to make sure that you are not
going to break because not everybody has the mental fortitude to do something like that um so he was
saying that you know before they go out on a mission they go out and the team is together
and they go through exercises every day to like be in the mindset to be in practice and they have
psychologists on site um that they talk to and they like are you know they are debriefed by and
after the mission they are also debriefed um and that there's a ton of mental work that goes into
that type of work because you have to like you can't you know you watch you watch James Bond or
Ethan Hawke or whatever and they have like their issues but they just kind of bury their emotions
that's not that's not real like these people go home to families you know like most of the soldiers
out there the eight you know intelligence officers they have families back home like you have to be
able to reconcile it somehow you have to find a way so at the CIA we have actually in-house
psychologists and medical staff um that you can talk to if you need to um but you
you know for the for the deltas it was a part of their mission for us like you have to know to
go talk to them right like you have to be comfortable being vulnerable in those areas because if you
are not comfortable being vulnerable and taking care of that yourself that actually becomes a
vulnerability for you and in the intelligence industry that's huge like you want to have no
vulnerabilities because that's what outside intelligence forces will target does that make
sense yeah definitely did you guys when you were out in the field did you guys ever like have any
suspicion of you guys being targeted by other agencies foreign agencies uh i wasn't um i think
we did ever get dicey pretty secure um i was i was usually in a situation where i felt secure
i'm not entirely certain about andy funny enough when we when we left the agency and we became
overt so our cover was rolled back after we left um we there were a couple of times where we met
people where we were like like this seems dicey here you know because we were known intelligence
officers um so we just kind of you know did best practices and we were fine um but i think you know
you're always on alert when you're overseas working for the agency so um you know i never noticed
anything overt that you know being approached or being targeted um but you know even diplomatic
officers are targeted sometimes in like countries like cuba countries like russia right so have
you ever been to cuba no and i don't think i ever can oh really i'm kind of sad about it yeah
i so there are certain countries that are on a no-go list for me okay because i think that
they are hostile enough to just pick you up pick you up throw you in jail use you as leverage you
know stuff that i'm probably the public doesn't normally hear about every once in a while you hear
about somebody like so some you know iran picked somebody up as a spy and you're like oh like you
should probably just shouldn't have been there um yeah so there are definitely there are a handful
of countries that i think are too hostile and i think it's too big a risk because we are over
this is just you personally won't go there correct well i mean they're also not allowed well i mean
technically we're not allowed right now correct yeah so there are our there are certain countries
that unless you're assigned there you don't go to um but they are all the same countries i would not
go to now so for all the same reasons right i mean it's just a hostile government so like um
you know i wouldn't test china right now russia cuba iran they're just they're too hostile you
don't know i mean all you are are a bargaining chip right like you show up they run your name
you know some if you pop up on any kind of database that they have or you know if you're
there long enough that somehow like they because we're because our covers rolled back we're known
you know all they have to do is pick you up and say oh you're spying so they could find they could
they could run you like see your passport going to russia they could run your background check and
they could find out that you were xcia possible you don't know so that's the issue right because
it's intelligence it's all secret so i have no idea who knows is that your biggest concern
because your xcia that's the reason you don't want to go there yes absolutely so like my parents
went to russia on a cruise no big deal right um yeah it is just because andy and i are actually
overtly former cia and that's all somebody would need to pick us up and be like you guys are spies
and you guys talk about it on the internet and people know you yep do a lot i wonder if a lot
of people from this do most people in the cia like keep it hush hush after they leave a lot of people
do um especially if so there's a number of paths you can take when you leave a lot of people contract
and go right back in so they just keep everything under um because there's no reason for anybody to
know um and then some people when they leave they leave into jobs where they already have
something set up like i have a i have a friend who you know left right into like she you know
networked with somebody and there was an interesting job that came up so she left the cia to go directly
into the job she's had ever since no reason for her to roll back her cover um people who stay overseas
also don't roll back their cover because it's tricky um if they are like stationed overseas
and then leave the agency a while still overseas they don't roll back their cover because they're
that's just a tricky situation for them um but you'll see i mean there are enough people out
there they even with cover rolled back if you look on like linkedin you know there are certain
signs you know people say i worked for the usg you know like what's the u.s. oh us yeah the u.s.
government you know a very generalized thing on there so they probably have their cover their
cover rolled back but um they're careful not to put details and we're only allowed to say so much
anyways you know even with cover rolled back all your language has to be approved it's all very
generalized nobody knows what you're talking about if you're trying to get a job so you know how
how specific is that when you're like officially leaving the cia like i'm curious talking to you
and andy like how specific are they with what you are and aren't allowed to talk about and how
often do you are you communicating with them like because he's he mentioned that every time he does
something public he has to like have correspondence or something right so you're supposed to um it's
like anything written is supposed to go through a review board um and then they look at all your
language that relates to the agency um i mean like my resume they picked over every single word
and it came back with all kinds of marked out things and then replacements like it just has
to be very general you can't have any specifics um the biggest concern is revealing like sources and
methods um so we don't ever talk about like specific places we went to or um talk about like
specific methodologies that we use um and you know specific trade craft um so yeah when when you're
generally out and about talking you just kind of try to stick to the rules because
there's only so much review that they can do anyways so you just try to police yourself
make sure you're not divulging anything important right what do you think about
edward snowden living in russia and being protected by russia uh and we're snowed in
because he's obviously they know he's at cia everybody's the nsa he was in it he was an nsa
contractor i have very strong feelings about snowden because so so i am a fan of whistleblowers
right like something if something is like like the government can do wrong things people in the
government can because right the government is made up of people so people can be corrupt people
can be shady so of course it's possible that something that should not be happening is happening
right like something that doesn't have enough oversight right like so whistleblowers great
like let's keep things in check mm-hmm i do not see snowden as a whistleblower i he
he i had other names for him that i will not use you can use them i he he divulged um
like class like classified information for for what i considered to be no good reason
if there was something going on that should not have been going on there is number one
a chain of command to follow to report it you do not just release classified information to the
world and the fact that he went to like i think he ran to cuba first and then to russia like our
actual enemies right like we're going to hong kong or hong chinese i mean anyways like
so ha right so hong kong russia not friends right so i feel very strongly that maybe he thought he
was doing the right thing my guess is he had a very good handler who convinced him because that's
how it works especially with those types of countries right he had a good handler who convinced him
he was doing the right thing for his country he was not doing the right thing for his country
and for me i was really affected because that data that he like that data and those programs
that he released like targeters use those like i like like anybody who thinks that their information
is private what do you mean targeters so targeters use data right like that's what i do that's my job
like or was so targeters use all kinds of data it's like being a private investigator like on
crack like because you have access to tons more data um just because of the government has access
to data um so it's like how like if a private investigator goes online and they can see your
facebook page and your instagram and they can there's certain things that they can find out about you
right like imagine that like exponential right but that data comes from somewhere so like like
apple and google will share it um you know i just with the government right with the government for
a purpose right like without that it is very difficult like that information helps us find
terrorists that information helps us stop terrorist attacks that information helps us find intelligence
officers in our country and overseas who are trying to do our country harm right like that
information is not telling me that you are cheating on your wife like if you think that like i have
huge issues with people and they're in privacy because like if you are if you are online anything
digital if you have a phone or you are online there is no privacy for you i i hate to tell you
like i don't care what agreement you sign or whatever it exists somebody can hack it somebody's
collecting it it's being used whether it's being used by the government to stop terrorists or to
collect intelligence for our country or whether it's being used by marketers to advertise to you
it's being used it's not private so when the snowden thing happened and and a number of people
started chiming up and being like oh my gosh look what the government's doing and they're spying on
us we are not spying on you i'm you know if the cia first of all cannot spy on an american
they have to have permission to touch anything american related like us sit related the fbi
can that's their purview right like they are responsible if the fbi is watching you you're
probably doing something wrong if you're doing something wrong and you're worried about your
privacy you should probably stop doing something wrong like if you're selling drugs and you're
worried that your privacy is being invaded you should probably stop selling drugs like you're
doing something wrong um yeah so it's and and the cia is not looking at you i promise you unless you
are an undercover like chinese intelligence officer nobody's looking at your stuff nobody's
listening to your phone calls i promise right well wasn't his his overall reasoning for doing
this was because of the so-called patriot act that was enacted after 9 11 was used and it was
actually proven that they were taking transcripts and actually recording and and actively listening
into like millions of americans phone calls whether they had any sort of any sort of reason
to do it or not right so think about like the easiest way to gather data right so like you have
and you have a giant bowl of m&m's here right and i need to get like the green m&m that's in
the middle like that's the one i'm interested is that green m&m in the middle right i'm not
gonna like be able to dig through and find that little green m&m the fastest way for me to do it
is to scoop up your entire bowl of m&m's and then sift it through a filter a software program
right sift it through until my filter my software program pops up that green m&m that i'm looking for
like that's the most efficient way to do it is to do giant grabs i'm not really looking for the
red m&m or the yellow m&m i don't care about the brown m&m like none of that really matters to me
i'm looking for this one thing and the best way for me to get it is to just do a grab all
and sift through it like i'm not actually listening like nobody's listening to all those
conversations think about like millions of conversations there are not people out there
just listening to conversations that's not you know literally like i said before right
it's an office with cubicles like office workers you know is it some sort of like
ai that's basically like scanning all of these phone calls and text messages looking for keywords
or what is it so i so i i couldn't talk about it even if i knew about it but i will say that
you know the analysis is done by analysts human beings right so data data collection is done the
way any company would do data collection right i mean it's just a different a different style but
like google collector data like apple collector data tons of people collect your data it's all
done the same way right it's all pulling tons of data in the end it's a person me or somebody else
that's going through that individually you know eight and a half hours every weekday
looking for connections looking for information you know there's there's not time like we are
very focused right like we know who we want and we know how to get there we are not just idly
listening you know it's not like when you flip through youtube and you're just idly watching
people it's not that like we have a job isn't it also true that we haven't caught any terrorists
through the patriot act by by tapping people's phone calls
i do not know the answer to that question okay and and i will say that a maybe you could google it
maybe find out some uh fake article some fake russian article i will say that i'm not i'm not a
terrorists caught through the patriot act or tapping american phone call something like that yeah
and i will say that i'm not i'm not saying that something shouldn't have been done about the
patriot act right the patriot act was something that came out of 9 11 for a specific purpose
and i think things like that oftentimes right because it was broad so because it was broad
and already in use it's easier to just kind of keep it there yeah so i'm not saying that shouldn't
have been reviewed because i think that you know a policy particularly if a policy comes out of like
a time of war that needs to be reviewed right like is it still meeting the purpose can we narrow it
right so that's why i say you know i support whistleblowing right i support reviewing things
that are already in practice because you know maybe something that was okay the first three years
after 9 11 you know isn't okay 10 years down the road maybe that's unnecessary maybe it's
reaching too far maybe you do a review and you find out that it's not serving its purpose you're
not actually catching terrorists right i mean the information even if it wasn't carrying you know
capturing terrorists probably was good for other forms of intelligence that nobody's talking about
because nobody cares doesn't have as much of a like impact when you talk about other forms of
intelligence right but yeah i guess i mean the the hard part to deal with is the fact that they
use something like 9 11 and the the clever marketing of calling it the quote patriot act yeah to sort
of pass it through with any review right to push it through they were trying to be so deceptive
and then i some guy got on the stand and lied straight face lied about about doing this stuff
yeah so maybe i can understand from that perspective why ed snowden felt so strong
about it yes so that's why i think that's where i think like like he had his feelings right
he had his feelings about it and then it had issues already right so it wasn't like this
perfect magical thing that was working and he blew it like he had feelings about something that was
already you know needed a review that could be done differently right that maybe needed to
change at this point in time what i don't agree with was the way he went about doing it i feel
like that just there there would have been a better way i think just blowing all the information out
and then running to a hostile what you know a country that is hostile to us intelligence i
don't think that that was the right way and i think it hurt a lot of things i think it
possibly hurt more than it helped right i see what you're saying but if he would have gone
through the right avenues if he would have gone through the right chain of command
it might not have gone public and it might not have hit all these news stations and made
the public aware of it yeah does the public need to be aware of it i think so i think i think it
can do it might do it might do well some harm up front but i think long term if i mean it's just
like just like with the cia or the government making it public that they're aware of ufo's or
extra extra extra extra terrestrial wow easy for you to say uh aircraft or whatever it's better if
the public is aware of it people are looking for it people understand it i feel like it is going to
help the nation or help the world understand this thing and i feel it's the same way with
something like this if something was underhandedly put in place to benefit something even though it
was not the right thing to do sometimes just to light a fire is the best way to shine light on
something and maybe if he would have gone through the right chain of commands there wouldn't have
been the public light shining on it to expose it for its flaws and to expose the government for
all their flaws right i mean i agree i agree that you know case by case basis
that public knowledge of certain things has a benefit but i also believe that there are
lots of things the public doesn't need to know about like and the problem with the way snowed
and went about it was the fact that it not only revealed methodologies to the american public
it revealed methodologies to all like the world so all these other governments and intelligence
services friendly or not suddenly knew something we were doing and that completely cuts off an avenue
of our ability to collect intelligence like suddenly like we are short information you know
and that gives them a leg up and maybe it's something like they had never even thought about
or considered doing maybe it's something that they because they have a dictatorship are like
that's a great idea now we will do that like we never thought about it before but now we'll do
the same thing where now america can't do the same thing like we've lost our edge and now somebody
else has gained an edge so that's my issue with it like with you know what what does the public
really need to know i don't know that they need to know a lot in fact um it was like my mom uh
i believed in santa claus until i was 10 because my mom did such a good job every single year at
like building the story like everything was hidden it was different handwriting different wrapping
paper the cookies were always gone there was always like a note like i mean she was elaborate
and the only reason i discovered it was because my fifth grade teacher in the middle of class
like outed the fact that there was no santa claus um but you know how rude how rude it was a
little devastating but did i really need to know like i was having an enjoyable experience every
year not knowing that there was no santa claus actually ruined christmas for many many years
afterwards like i would rather have just been in the dark and enjoyed santa claus the whole time
like there are lots of behind the scenes things that are secret because it gives us an edge keeping
them secret right and people don't need to know those things like the public does not need to weigh
in and judge all of the decisions that the cia or the fbi or the you know ice or whatever makes
right because they are specializing in that field so well i think there is some benefit
when something is revealed something huge right like i'm sure i'm for some reason vietnam era comes
to mind right like i'm like there are certain things that are beneficial when the public knows
but i really think it's like less than half of what's out there is in any way important for public
to know i just don't think it's necessary what does this say us paid to react that's way too small
there's nowhere to be able to read that allows investigators anyways
yeah so it may be true i've heard it multiple from multiple talk shows that i've listened to
or not talk shows but different people online that study this stuff they dedicate their lives to
to just researching like this the policies that are made and you know how effective they are
yeah and i think it was it might have been part of one of snowden's recent documentaries where he
mentioned that yeah and it's definitely i mean i believe in checks and balances right and i think
that there should be checks and balances in place there should be reviews in place i think sometimes
that either doesn't happen or it goes you know there's just too much pressure like the whole
you know waterboarding
you know and i i don't agree with everything the government does but
well i mean it is kind of interesting that he is in russia right now and he's living like normally
in russia i mean do you think there's some sort of like weird leverage thing going on between russia
in the united states by by russia letting him stay there my guess is that they he my guess is that he
knew enough leaving that it was worth them keeping him so it's not it's not like it's gonna ruin the
relationship between the us and russia he's like in the grand scheme of things a small potato but
he having him there and having his knowledge you know is beneficial for russia like they
can spend years asking him questions about things right because he lives there and they've given
him like is he a citizen now i think so yeah i'm not 100 sure but so yeah it's it's in their best
interest it's like no skin off their nose to let him live there and it's in their best interest to
have him there and have access to him and i wonder what they would i wonder what they would do though
if the us said that they would we would take him back and basically wipe him of all his his charges
i wonder if they would let him come back that's interesting i don't know they probably would i
mean how beneficial would it be for them like they already they already know in theory because i
don't know the man but they know he's not like strictly loyal to the united states government
right so why not let him come back see what more information he can get might even be risky for the
united states to let him back because they might think that he's now you know working for russia
or providing some sort of yeah i mean information to other countries now i mean it's kind of yeah
he'd be followed by fbi forever right oh yeah yeah so what is in your opinion what is like the
overarching view of the united states from these other countries that you visited
so like what is their perspective i'm sure you spent a lot of time talking to a lot of
different people yeah so um i can speak mostly for asia um and the perspective there is really
interesting because the united states has a lot of influence throughout asia um just historically
from world war two um but china is their actual neighbor and china has a longer history with all
of the asian countries so like east asian southeast asian and it's really impressive to see
the fine line that the like asian basically countries walk right like they want they don't
china's aggressive so they don't really want to be like under china's thumb
but the united states isn't going to step up in the way that they want them to step up
all the time um i know obama did like an asia pivot but that changes president to president
right like whatever the focus is changes over time where china like that is their backyard
so china is interested in having control over those countries through trade having control of
the waters for their navy um so it's this really interesting dynamic of you know they like the
united states they see us as a power like a power for good a power an ally but china's sitting right
there and they have to like they cannot ignore china like if they had to choose my bet would
always be on china like if they ever had to choose between who they were gonna back because america's
far away i think so i mean that's my from my experience because you know sometimes america
goes through its moods right sometimes america just doesn't want to be involved and they're like
well america's not going to back us up this president you know some like america's far away
so by the time it took us to do anything like china's literally sitting right there and then
you know the culture is a little bit different like everything i was saying about
you know you need to be able to put yourself into the shoes of the ties of the cambodians of the
malaysians right like has america done a good enough job or diplomats doing a good enough job of
doing that to be able to have those discussions you know yeah no it's it's uh it's so it's so
crazy how you know the different relationships between different different countries that you
know are having to deal with you know playing both sides or being a part of a tug of war between
country different countries just because they're stuck in the middle of these two superpowers
like uh right you know right now with russia and uh and the ukraine yeah so crazy and america
doesn't have as much sway as it used to um we're a lot more globalized now there are other countries
that have come up um so like in the when we were in the middle east so i've never been to i've never
actually been to south asia but when we were in the middle east we were close enough to south asia
pakistan um that we um we met a lot of people from those areas there and it was fascinating to
watch the relationship they're like america's not even like barely a consideration um you know
on certain things but i mean really like they are dealing with their neighbors like in the middle
east and south asia like they are dealing with their immediate neighbors because that like they
have nukes right like that's who's going to affect them you know and then there's always the question
of is america going to get involved or not right like if a country doesn't think that america is
going to back them up they have to start thinking about their other options so the further the more
like nationalists we become the more everybody else like there's going to there's a power vacuum
that happens other people fill in you know there can't be a vacuum somebody's going to fill in that
spot and the scariest part about it is too that those countries are so like you said so much
more aggressive and they'll take extreme measures like way harsher than i feel like the united states
would even take well because there's a history there i mean think about how old the countries you
know i mean do we just we were talking earlier about how young america is like there's this very
long history in these regions um you know so lots of baggage lots of you know disputes that were
you know are still kind of festering you know um you can see it when you read about the border
disputes in the area lots of cultural issues um that i think americans like we can't even relate to
are you i was talking to uh to andy last time about how in some of the embassies in cuba and
russia the american embassies they there were a lot of people in different agencies like the
ci and the fbi that were experiencing like crazy headaches yeah i read about migraines and experiencing
disorders but and because you know about this maybe you can explain it better than i can
but basically they were like targeting radiation towards these embassies that were giving people
yeah head injuries basically yeah so there are certain countries that like to play dirty um so i'd
still i i mean whatever you think about the cia like america has standards right we have lawyers
we have laws we have standards um you know we have a democratic government um
um but there are other countries that do not like they what i would consider play dirty like
they will kill your dog you know just just to mess with you just to let that just to let you know
that they know who you are right you know they'll do things to make you sick to make you leave to
make it so uncomfortable for you to be there that you'll just go because i mean they just don't want
you there right they'll do things to mess with you um they'll they'll surveil you like obviously
so you know that you're constantly being watched you know like intimidating you right so i mean
there's lots of different tactics that intelligence agencies use um you know the the ones we think
about are the ones where everything's a secret and nobody knows and everything's doing everybody's
doing things in the shadows um but then there's kind of the dirty side where they do things overtly
just to harass you um harass you intimidate you um there are there are intelligence agencies that
use um you know blackmail and manipulation um which in in the cia's view is not like that is not
a functional way like that is not sustainable right like you're if you're blackmailing somebody
for intelligence it's not really the best way to go like that's not the best way to get intelligence
it's not sustainable that something's going to happen um you can't keep that up maybe you could
do it once you know but if you're trying to build a long-term intelligence relationship with an asset
that's not the way to go but there are plenty of countries who do it you know doesn't the
united states break sort of international laws too i mean don't they don't we break a lot of laws
that we just say it's okay because we're the united states well so does everybody yeah so all the
countries do it um so gathering intelligence in like any country is illegal in every country um so to
that extent yes um you're definitely you know by recruiting somebody to spy on their country
like you're breaking the law but that's that's the game right so like that's like the gentleman's game
right like everybody knows it's happening everybody knows they're doing it everybody knows that you
know like in any given country like the brits have spies there the americans have spies there the
french have spies there the you know the thais have spies there like if there's an embassy or if
there's a forum presence or whatever like there's spies there everybody knows it and but that's the
gentleman's game right like i like i see you you know you see us okay yeah like if you're good
you know be good enough to keep yourself secret you know that's that's for me like that's the real
game of you know that's the proper intelligence game i think do you think because because of
your guys opposite personality traits do you think that made you guys work better together
yeah because a lot of people there's a lot of uh a lot of different opinions out there of people
who think that the same personality types are better together versus opposite personality types
i'm on on i personally believe that opposite personalities fit together better because like
you and andy my wife and i are completely opposite yeah so um i think professionally
being opposites on the same team on the same operation was awesome like because we totally
filled in each other's you know strengths and weaknesses um personally that makes it a lot
harder i think i look at some couples that are almost identical in personality and they just seem
to gel and like everything's always smooth like why can't i have that um so yeah professionally i
absolutely think you know you have to have people with different characteristics different strengths
weaknesses traits um and that really worked out for us at the agency um but at home it's definitely
much more of a struggle um trying to keep balance um and i don't know if it's just because at home
is like 24 seven or you know in an op you get together you play in the op everybody does their
part you know but at home it's a little bit messier yeah now i mean that that's a huge a huge
change that you made from being a spy in the cia or uh you're a target a kinetic target no no
not kinetic they did not blow people up oh you didn't blow people up operational operational
you were one of the nice yeah that was the nice one the the one that was gonna get somebody to
come and buy you a drink oh yes exactly to be our friend and spy obviously so yeah so like what was
that like was it something in you that happened like was there some sort of some sort of event
that made you make that decision becoming a spy to motherhood and family life so once we were
pregnant we got pregnant when we were overseas and then we came back um right before we had the
baby like a month before we had the baby um and he was moving into management so i was always a
very behind the scenes like um i wanted to just specialize in what i did i was not interested
in moving up the ladder or any of that um but and he was moving into management um and just like i
i'm guessing any place else like the higher you rise the more hours you work um we were
back in the dc area there was tons of you know commuting time was just huge and um and we were
still trying to live our life where we like we had one car and we had like our you know our little
apartment like our kind of minimalistic life but it was getting harder and harder because he was
having to go in early and stay in late and then i'm stuck alone with the baby um after i'm working
too and we're trying to balance daycare and all the things that parents everywhere go through um
and i think for for me because i hadn't really done that critical thinking at that time because
i had i was in the mindset of like i have arrived and this is what we're gonna do and this is what
life looks like um but andy was like we can do better than this like i am not like he was not
where he wanted to be he wanted to be home with his son he wanted to be on his own time um
and so he was the one that kind of planted the seed of like let's go and i think after several
months of having our new baby and having no help because we had no family members in the area um we
were just on our own trying to balance everything i was like you know moving close to family sounds
good so that's what we decided to do and he um we networked into a private company
and started our new life in florida yeah that's amazing what's it been like in florida compared
to everywhere else you've been so i grew up here and funny enough andy had to convince me to come
back because um i spent all of like my high school and college years here so i went to like
university of south florida i went to florida state university um trying to leave i was like i'm
going to be a professional and i'm getting out of here like i'm going to where professional people
go or whatever um so it was this big thing and i was like oh i mean i got to dc i got to the cia so
when he was like let's go back to st p i was like no no way i was like we can go to colorado like
let's really yeah like why not florida why why were you so against it it was really just the idea of
coming home where i felt like i had achieved so it was my own personal issues that i had
i needed to work through right like i felt like i have achieved and now i'm gonna take a step back
somehow beneath you yeah but since i mean i'm i'm glad like he he had traveled so i had traveled
the world but not really the united states which is kind of funny he had traveled the united states
so he said the first christmas i brought him home it's christmas time there's lights on the palm
trees it's 70 degrees you know in december and he was like from the first moment he was like this is
it this is paradise um and so because he has seen so much of the united states for him to say you
know st pete's the place i was like okay like i'll i'll do it and my parents lives here my sister
lives my entire mom's side of the family lives here so i was like lots of family saint pete's not
so bad now that we've been back a while now we've been back several years um i'm really happy
i'm really happy that he had the idea to come back and i'm really happy that i listened to him
because he's very smart so well don't say that you actually you actually you actually regret
moving back here and you really can't wait to get the hell out of florida we don't want anybody
getting the wrong idea about florida oh true do not move to st petersburg florida sucks go to texas
oh yeah totally everything goes in texas i heard i heard texas is so much better than florida
beautiful you know they got they got they got the new law the open carry without a permit oh my gosh
i've been here i have just read about that that's so funny yeah they were like there's other states
too i'm like what other states yeah not that it matters because i'll never see the gun i guess
well texas has the least gun violence right isn't that true i don't know i think it is i heard it
somewhere i don't know that's crazy do you guys i think you guys you think you guys will stay in
florida for a while are you guys gonna get out of here eventually or well so we're waiting for things
to open up we were overseas when florida's open yeah well yeah so funny enough we were overseas
when the pandemic hit and the country we're in completely lockdown i mean like we like my children
did not leave the apartment for two full months it was like yeah like you had to apply for a permit
to go to the grocery store like it was crazy lockdown which country uh we were in the UAE
yeah so um it was really really strict and um we yeah we were in Abu Dhabi okay oh and funny
enough because it's emirates right it's the united arab emirates each emirate had its own rules oh my
god so you couldn't even travel like we were trying to get plane tickets out and you couldn't
even travel from Abu Dhabi to Dubai like their borders were closed it'd be like the border from
here to georgia being closed right um yeah it was insane and we felt almost stuck it was a very
unnerving feeling trying to get they only had repatriation flights they only flew like once a
month or something you had to get on a flight and then they flew you to america like you didn't get
to pick where so we ended up landing in chicago really yeah no my god we were just like what's the
flight to america and they're like well it's to chicago and we're like okay i'll take it like
whatever to get out of here right um so when we got to florida it was amazing um because everything
was so open i mean there were still the mass mandates and everything but we were like we can go
outside like how exciting is this um yeah it felt really good so we had already been planning to
go to move on overseas we wanted to go to new zealand um our application is still in the system
and then and they completely closed um and then we tried armenia and they closed so now we're just
kind of waiting um you know we love it here the kids are really happy here um so i think we'll
stay here you know maybe a year or two longer and then kind of see how the world shakes out and see
how the pandemic shakes out um because it's it's endemic now right like it's not like it's
going away like we will live with coronavirus we will get our booster shots um so the world has to
open um so we're just kind of waiting to see do you think the do you think it'll end up just being
like something just like the flu that everyone's used to it's like oh yeah we have the flu we have
the coronavirus yeah i think i've got the shots for that stuff and yeah i think eventually there
will be like enough exposure enough vaccines that it's gonna level out and it'll be a virus just like
other viruses i mean you know when we so andy had coronavirus in february and um when he got sick
he he was he had a fever for like five days and he was down and out and we just had him
quarantine the bedroom um but when we lived in asia within the first six weeks of him moving
to asia he got dengue fever no yeah and i had actually just um i had been on like weekend duty
where i had taken a call from a lady who was coming to get her son's body who had just died
from dengue fever so when he came and he got dengue fever i was like you have got to be joking
and both my parents because um they lived in venezuela for so long have had dengue fever
so i call my parents and they're like hey i'll be fine like it really sucks but you know he'll
he'll make it and there's nothing you can do for except let it ride like you take Tylenol
and just drink water and that's it but so the whole time he had COVID i was like how does this
compare to dengue because with dengue i was really really worried like i was constantly
wondering what the death rate is for dengue i don't know it's pretty high though i think i'm
like aid and that's your cue um and what's interesting so so when he got COVID i kept
asking him to compare it because i was terrified with dengue and the COVID the whole time for him
at least he was like he's like i don't feel good but it's not it's not as bad as dengue dengue he
like he was just in bed i mean it was really unnerving to watch him um but you know having
lived overseas and having seen you know like malaria and dengue and you know known people
who have had tb and i'm like you know there are lots of things out there like coronavirus is new
like this coronavirus is new COVID is new but there are lots of other terrible things out there too
so eventually this will just kind of like people will stop panicking about it this will just be
fold right into one of those other things that are also horrible to get it's just so weird because
it's the first disease that's been hyper politicized yes which is insane which is unfortunate
because i just read something where it said like like a record high 16 percent of americans
don't trust the vaccine or something like that because of the politics well you know and i so
it's it's interesting because when i worked in covert influence you know there was a lot of a
lot of thought put into messaging right so when all the the epidemic was going or when the pandemic
was going on or is going on like what bothered me the most was the messaging like they're like every
country had different messaging and then some of the messaging was terrifying and some of it
was not at all helped like was like ignoring the fact that anything was going on at all
and i'm like where is the messaging that like science is working on it you know we don't have
definitive answers we think this is happening you know there's there just wasn't a lot of
you know it's it's hard when like statements are put out there like you must wear a mask and you
must be six feet apart and this is what's going to save you when that's not actually scientifically
accurate they think they think at this moment that those things will be helpful and that those
things will mitigate you getting it or how sick you get if you do get it like it just wasn't
i feel like they're just it wasn't caveat it enough like there wasn't enough information around it
they were trying to do these sound bites that aren't really accurate and then now you know
now that all people are being vaccinated i you see more and more people getting confused about
do i wear a mask or do i not wear a mask like i've been vaccinated but i had covid like do we
both have the same anti bodies like i don't wear masks like yeah and because there's no clear like
what you know when all the lockdowns were happening i'm like what is the expectation for
these lockdowns because it i thought it became clear pretty quickly that the expectation the
realistic expectation for any of the lockdowns was not eradication new zealand was the only one
that was like we're gonna lock down fully and we're going to eradicate but sorry for new zealand
you are part of the rest of the world so even if you were eradicated it on your island like the real
goal there is to eradicate until there's a vaccine and we can get our vaccine pop you know
our population vaccinated and then we can open like that's a more realistic goal right like
the real goal for the lockdowns was to not overwhelm the hospitals it was not so that nobody
got sick like that was never like people not catching coronavirus people not getting covid
yeah it's not actually a realistic goal our hospital systems not being overwhelmed so that
people who would normally be able to get proper care cannot and die like unnecessarily like that's
a goal right like that and but it was never being said i'm like that seems to be the clear
purpose we're just trying not to overwhelm the hospitals but nobody's saying it so now everybody
there's like mask shaming and there's all this confusion about you know when are we gonna end
the lockdown and all this criticism about oh they ended the lockdown too early not not you know
not early enough like you know it just it wasn't clear i saw something really funny i think it was
on vise yesterday where there's a group of anti-maskers who are now going to start wearing masks to
protect themselves against vaccinated people i read an article about some that was hilarious
private school superintendent who is telling her telling the the teachers that they couldn't come
back if they were vaccinated because they would be a risk i just don't like i don't know who knows
i mean who knows it's hard it's hard that's the problem with all that with everything with all
of this tribalism and the political climate it's the it's impossible to understand what no what's
real or what's not and science is slow right like science is working on it it is slow like
heard a lot of people say you know i don't want to get vaccinated now because we're still in the
clinical trials i get that yeah totally i can totally empathize with that especially if somebody's
pregnant and they don't want and they're i can totally empathize with a mother that's pregnant
and doesn't want to get the vaccine because they don't know how it'll affect their child exactly or
if you have like an an immune disorder or something right like you don't want to chance it right you
don't know what's going to happen i get that i think as long as we're all being honest like
you know i think as long as people are aware like be honest that like the vaccines are in clinical
trials right now like everybody's being vaccinated as part of this giant clinical trial right like
we're not going to know for a long time any repercussions we're not going to know for a long
time if we need boosters or how long these vaccines are going to work we're not going to i mean
there's tons of stuff we don't know because science is working on it we just have to be patient
try to keep up with updates like if you try to force the hand of a scientist to give you a direct
answer like give me you know tell me exactly what's happening you know this is the one and final
answer they can't do that right and if they if they do do that then that should be a huge red flag
to you that whatever they're saying is not accurate right you know scientists shouldn't
try to act like they have the answers to everything their goal is ask questions not to
exactly like they should be telling you we think we know this now we think this now but that's the
extent of it right you know and you have to be open so typical ding gay is fatal in less than
one percent of cases however ding gay yeah hemorrhagic fever hemorrhagic fever is fatal in
two point five percent of cases what is hemorrhagic fever so um so that's what the gentleman died of
that i took the phone call for was hemorrhagic fever so if you have so usually what happens is
there's four different strains 20 to 50 percent if it's hemorrhagic yeah so there's four different
strains of ding gay um that are generally regional um so you can catch ding gay more than once right
so if you catch like strain one you can and you travel you can catch strain two and have it more
than once and the more the more times you catch it the more likely you are to have hemorrhagic
fever which is basically so ding gay fever gives you like a really strong fever um and they call it
break bone um your bones hurt a lot um and so when you have hemorrhagic fever you just start to bleed
and i don't know exactly like the exact details but i know that you basically just like your
fever gets really high and you kind of bleed out i think internally possibly oh my god yeah and so
the more often so like and he caught it he caught it in asia but when he was tested and he had the
blood test he had a variety we were at a part of town he caught it in a part of town where there
were a lot of like backpackers so he actually caught a strain that's from australia so now
we're like if he goes to latin america or if he goes back to asia like there's still these other
strains out there that he's susceptible to right and then the body it starts to overreact um because
it's had a strain before but now this one's slightly different so that's the risk of having it multiple
times so like the immune system will overreact and sort of attack the own body yes yeah and i mean
it's a really common thing to have over there like they don't have mosquito control like i mean here
this it's interesting when you look at the history of the united states and you realize like united
states used to have malaria we do not any longer there used to be dengue fever here we do not any
longer like there were giant campaigns to eradicate america of these diseases right um but it's not
like that in asia it's not like that in africa you know all of that still exists the ua e actually
had um a really huge campaign to eradicate malaria and tb when they came into their oil money um
the health of their people was like a huge push um so yeah but that's not everywhere what about zika
zika a big problem in south america or anywhere else you've been so i haven't heard much about zika
which is another interesting thing because zika was all over the news when i was pregnant with my
second child and andy happened to go to latin america that year and we were terrified you know of
zika like if he got bit and then we were together and i was like all these things um weren't you
were you pregnant with your first son or with your son when you were in south america or were you
in asia asia okay okay and then i was pregnant with my daughter here in florida um but andy had
a trip to south america oh no right to like zika land and um yeah and it was it was my even my
obstetrician was like oh like he probably shouldn't be going but um yeah so it was what's strange to
me it's it was all over the news everybody was terrified and now nothing i haven't heard anything
about zika no me neither so where like it's not eradicated i promise you it's a where is it i looked
on the cdc because i'm getting ready to travel to to central america and i'm trying to like gauge
it because my wife's pregnant right now their second kid and you know i'm trying to figure
out there's too much of a risk for her to go you know so i but i i think there was last year
there was like 200 to 300 cases total in in costa rica on costa rica yeah and then they're like
usually certain areas because like the mosquitoes there's mosquito born at a certain time to the
year where like it's the wet season the rainy season yep yeah so i mean i've been to multiple
places in latin america never had an issue i've been bitten by lots of mosquitoes never had
you know any kind of mosquito born illness right um yeah it is interesting but i so funny enough
the where andy caught dinghy um his sister um actually caught dinghy in the same place
yeah so i think like there there must just be certain areas right i mean it's a backpacker
place so and tons of mosquitoes and standing water and um so yeah so my guess is that when
you look at cases they're probably localized if they're not you know all over the place so
another weird thing about the uh the vaccine is a really good friend of mine had had cancer
when he was a child and he had like ungodly amounts of radiation and chemo and uh it affected his
body quite strangely like it like there's certain things that that really fuck him up like if he
has a beer he's hung over the next day for like the whole day and like different different little
quirky things with with him and um when i had my first kid he went and got a t-dap shot
oh that's nice of him yeah it was very nice of him super nice guy um and uh because he wanted to
hang out with us and he loves kids so he wanted to hang out with the kid and um and the t-dap
shot literally had him like in horrific night sweats for like 24 hours he was like he could
barely eat he could barely breathe he thought he was gonna die after he got that shot wow and he just
got the covid vaccine and he said nothing really so it's interesting how different vaccines or
different whatever how they affect the body in different ways depending on yeah who you are and
just like the same thing with with the different viruses like the way and he caught ding gay and
it affected him like that my wife had coronavirus she got it she was like deathly ill for 10 days
and i was around her the whole time like helping her and doing anything i never got it i never
even caught it i didn't catch it either i was right there with him yeah yeah so it's just
it's really interesting it's me it's one of those things like you never know how the virus is
going to affect you you never know how the vaccine is going to affect you i find like i find biology
to be like this super inaccurate science because there's so many factors right hit like your body's
history of your current state of health i mean there's you can't guess i mean you can kind of
guess like that i feel about birth control right like there's it you're trying to change your
biology there's tons of different types of birth control you have no idea what any one of those
are going to do right right so you just guess and you kind of bring hope for the best right yeah
well cool g i appreciate you doing this yeah i think we're about at our time limit but uh
i really appreciate your time i had fun talking to you yeah it was a pleasure
thank you what about are you guys planning any more big podcasts or projects anytime soon
so we are going to work on a big project in main for the next couple of months we're doing a um
it's called uh op def and it's um operational defense course that we are um that we are building
so we're really excited about it so we're renting like a little house in main off the coast and we're
going to just kind of like pretend to beat each other up for two months and practice all our moves
right and get them on video for people so they can um learn how to defend themselves um more from
the perspective of you know prevention not like how do you actually get into like a Bruce Lee style
fight but more like prevention and then how do you get out of it like somebody attacks you
right because i'm never going to take a man down but i can get out of something for sure right i can
prevent it and i can you know get out of a grip um so those types of um things that i we're hoping
will be helpful for um women or older people or i mean men too but um you know people make people
a little bit more confident to be out and about um we're also going to start um on a situational
awareness course um to go along with these things too because surveillance learning surveillance is
one thing right we we have something called red team so we teach surveillance and we teach
surveillance detection but that's like a level up from what most people need so situational
awareness for you know your college daughter or um you know your wife or whatever and then
you know operational defense op-def um so they can if they do end up you know getting their risk
grabbed they can get out of it for sure yeah and get out of there is this is is this all on
everyday spy website it is what's it everyday spy dot com everyday spy dot com go check it out
and check out their podcast it is probably my favorite podcast on this face of the earth just
because listening to the different things the different things you guys learn and and and
the ways of thinking and the critical thinking and how it applies everyday life it's just it's
fucking amazing i mean everyone could benefit from that in my opinion yeah i think and the
more people we have that you know start really like just sort of start thinking deeper like the
deeper conversations we can have and the more information we can exchange and the
the closer to truth we can get so cool well thanks again yeah thank you all right all right bye everybody
