I'm watching the video of Trump grabbing his ear, I'm thinking that's when I slip my hand
into his pocket and take his wallet, like that's my qualification.
We are going to have if he were to go down, we run up his credit cards immediately.
And by the way, yeah, we're going to have a former legendary CIA agent, John Carriacou,
who was also in prison, like you, but he was only in there for two years, put in there
by the CIA.
Oh, he was, oh, okay, yeah, not like in another country in the United States, in the United
States.
Oh, that's nice.
Yes, exactly.
What did he do for that?
What did he do for that?
Well, he was, he was one of the guys responsible for taking down one of the top guys in Al-Qaeda
named Abu Zabeda, and he was a part of a raid that captured this guy and killed, eventually
killed, no, he's in Guantanamo, they never killed him, but the story about how he captured
the guy is crazy in, I think it was Pakistan.
And John's been through a lot of it.
And eventually that's when the enhanced interrogation it happened, started happening with the CIA,
where they set up these black sites around the world to basically torture people and
get information from terrorists.
And John was blamed for it because he was the guy inside the CIA complaining about it,
like why are we doing this?
This is against the law.
This violates the Geneva Convention.
And they're like, stop bitching, John, stop bitching.
And then somehow it came out and a reporter contacted him from, I think it was ABC, and
said, John, Bush is on TV saying, there look, there's the photo of the super simple.
Bush was on TV basically saying that, talking about the enhanced interrogation stuff and
saying that there was a CIA operative who leaked it.
And then John thought he was talking about him.
So John's like, I'm going to go on live TV and talk about it.
So John went on TV and blew up the whole enhanced interrogation shit the CIA was doing.
And then they got him for espionage, something like that.
Some whole crime put him in prison.
But John knows a lot about this stuff.
And essentially, so like, Julian's been talking to his paramilitary folks, and I've talked
to a couple of guys, and the one thing that seems to be insane about this whole thing
is that they didn't put anybody on those roofs that were 300 feet, 150 yards away.
And as we sit here in our air conditioned room with our microphones, we can tell everything.
We can critique what they did wrong and let them know that they need to be better.
This is the video.
It didn't have all that shit around it, though.
Like it was a very much clearer video, I think.
But yeah, watch this head tilt.
Boom, right there.
How crazy is that, dude?
I'll tell you what that would have done.
If it hadn't killed him, it would have taken him out of the race.
I'll tell you that.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That would have took out his whole visual cortex of his brain.
Yeah.
I think he would have been a vegetable.
That's not good.
If it didn't kill him, it definitely would have fucked him up permanently.
Yeah.
He had to be honest with it.
Let's face it, the bullet.
That probably would have killed him.
It probably would have gone through the initial.
It would have gone right through his temple.
No, no, no.
Because that was the side here.
That's the side.
I'm saying it would have gone into his skull and probably jumped around inside his skull.
It may not have exited his skull.
Yes, right.
It bounced off.
With a torb's brain out.
Yeah.
It'd be scrambled eggs.
Yep.
It is so crazy how that head turned to so last minute.
Listen.
Listen.
Jess says that.
I know.
He does.
So we watched this and at first I was like, I went, I think that clipped his ear.
And Jess was like, no, maybe it's, does he have an earpiece?
Like, you know, because we didn't know right away, we're still watching it as it's happening.
And then when he stands up and he's got the blood on his face and starts pumping his fist,
it was like, oh wow, he was hit.
Right.
He was definitely hit.
Because even the commentators were like, was he hit?
Like, I don't, is this, but when he stood up with the blood, it was like, holy s**t.
So what are the convention, so what are the, all the theories on what happened on the news?
You've been paying more attention to this than I have.
What's your buddy's name?
Forrest.
Yeah.
Forrest.
Forrest.
There's a whole group of people on the internet that are insisting that the Trump campaign
itself hired some sniper to take a shot at him and just to clip his ear.
Yeah.
Like.
This will push him over the edge.
Like he's already over the edge.
Like this isn't, not just that, any sniper will tell you, listen, the wind blows wrong.
It can always be off half an inch to an inch or whatever.
And the fact that you're going to get him to turn his head at exactly the same.
Trust me, when they, as he was turning his head and that dude pulled the trigger, when
that guy pulled the trigger, he'd probably still hit him.
He's turning his head.
I mean, that's what, that bullets traveling, you know what I'm saying?
I mean, there's just nobody in their right mind that would hire a sniper to fire, you
know, at their head.
It's just insane.
It's amazing how there's so many people that believe that is true.
That's Trump derangement syndrome at its finest.
Then there's the other ones that know that there was a real sniper that tried to take
him out and the kids of Patsy.
That's my favorite because that's very much the Oswald, you know, he's a Patsy, you know,
the Harvey Oswald who was, you know, people say like he didn't shoot Kennedy at all.
So yeah, he was the fall guy.
Right.
He's just a fall guy.
And honestly, what a great fall guy.
Like he is perfect.
Like if you really look at it, like, is there a chance like, yeah, it seems like it's possible.
There is definitely a chance.
Like nobody's ever going to know for sure.
Why was he perfect?
Because he'd been to, he'd been to the Soviet Union, then they let him back in.
Then they, you know, it's almost like he's being moved around.
And then the fact that when he tried to re-defect through Mexico City right before, like a week
before.
Right.
But then the last minute, so he gets a job at the Texas Depository and at the last minute,
they changed the route of the car to go buy the Texas Book Depository to be on the route.
It wasn't originally on the route.
Right.
Like that to me, that's to me the most compelling part was like, so we've got a guy that is
a, looks like a perfect assassin.
You know, he's got the, he sees a, you know, we can, we can blame it on his views of communism,
everything.
Let's just have the car go right by it.
We'll have another sniper shoot him.
We'll blame it on him.
Right.
Well, and hopefully he'll just be killed.
Hopefully the local cops will probably kill him, but they don't, he gets found, he gets
grabbed.
Okay.
Well, now he's got to die some other way.
The Ruby thing is where it kind of breaks down.
Yeah.
Ruby is probably, maybe that was just an accident.
Like they were hoping he would never, he would be killed by the local cops.
Ruby was definitely not an accident.
Ruby was a part of MKUltra.
So when Ruby was in prison, he was getting visited by, you think prior to this, he was
set up to kill him?
So, so, so Ruby was in prison before, before, was Ruby in prison before or after he killed
Harvey?
Well, he definitely been in prison prior.
I mean, he'd been in and out of prison.
He was kind of like a, he kind of like, was kind of like a, like a mob guy.
He was like a hanger on.
So in the book Chaos, the Charles Manson book with the CIA by Tom O'Neill, he talks
about a guy named Jolly West, who was a CIA sort of like psychologist and chemist.
I believe he was a chemist, but he was doing tests on people with LSD on criminals specifically.
And there's documented reports that Tom found that Jolly West visited Jack Ruby in prison
multiple times and spent hours with him.
And Jolly West was very much a part of MKUltra, the mind control experiments they were trying
to do in the 60s.
And you know, you don't know whether that was prior to that's what I'm trying to find
out.
So yeah, I'd have to read, we'd have to find the book again, or maybe you could Google
it, Steve.
But I think it was prior to him killing Lee Harvey Oswald.
I think it was very much set up for him that I don't think they wanted him alive.
And I think Jack Ruby was probably a part of that plan.
Well, we're never going to know, but we're never going to know, right?
That's true.
So again, okay, so there's the group of people who think the fuck, this is I think the least
plausible explanation for it that Trump somehow hired the campaign set up a guy to orchestrate
a bullet to fly an inch past his fucking skull.
There's no way.
Yeah, okay.
First of all, he didn't need that to win.
He had already won the election after that debate with Biden.
There was no shot.
Right.
So the second one is the kids of Patsy, they're kind of maybe watching him.
They know he's got anti, you know, conservative or whatever you want, you know, liberal leanings.
He's made a few, they haven't opened his phone yet.
So you don't know what that phone, but let's say the NSA has been tracking his phone.
And they pick somebody and they say, this kid's 20 years old.
He's a shooter.
Like we know all this by watching his phone.
He's a shooter.
He's extremely radicalized.
He's donated to the, whatever, to the Democratic, that Democratic pact.
I mean, what, 15 bucks, not like he's a huge supporter, but he's also 20.
So, you know, he's made, you know, all of these posts or who knows what he's made.
You know, we don't really know yet because they haven't gotten the phone.
But let's say the NSA gets-
They haven't gotten the phone still?
No. Well, last I heard that the FBI is trying to crack it, trying to get into it.
It's not that easy if it's got a passcode.
So it seems weird that there wouldn't be, they would be able to-
I'm sure they'll get into it, especially since they had that Apple thing, where they cracked Apple.
Yeah.
But anyway, let's, they said they hadn't.
Maybe they have and they're still reading it.
Who knows?
Anyway, so let's say the NSA already knew they've got 50 different people that could be,
that could be homegrown kind of assassins.
And this kid is one of them and he's a shooter.
And he's kind of a loner.
And they say, hey, you know what?
If we could get this kid to the rally and maybe somebody stops by and says,
hey, let's let's radicalize, help radicalize them, get him to the rally,
put some plants, some, you know, bomb material into his car, which they found.
And, you know, we'll get him on the roof, but we'll have another sniper
shoot at Trump.
And Trump just happens to turn his head and it misses.
Who knows?
So, you know, that's the second one is he's a patsy and they,
and this is the maybe some, who knows, whether it's the Biden administration
or what these people will, I mean, he's not just a patsy.
He's also clearly the shooter, right?
No, he's clearly going to shoot, right?
But Oswald will probably going to shoot, but can we rely on him to kill him?
Let's get another person we know can kill him.
So let's say that happened.
So that's I'm sorry, that's another kind of a scenario where there's another
sniper, but the kid's really the fall guy.
OK, that's another one.
So those are the two oddball scenarios.
The true scenario is the kids probably radicalized.
His father saying he knows nothing about it, right?
Kid kind of radicalizes himself, figures out how to get to the,
you know, get to the rally, figures a way out on the rally.
He obviously had lots of different plans because he did.
Yeah, because he also had bomb material in his car.
So it's like maybe he thought, hey, can I get on the roof?
I probably can't even get on the roof.
And he actually, you know, but if I don't get on the roof, then here's what I'm going to do.
I have this bomb material in my car.
I'm going to throw it in the crowd or I'm going to throw it under Trump's,
you know, SUV or I'm going to who knows what he's thinking.
But he obviously had alternate plans.
But what happened is he got out there.
He said, I can get on the roof.
He gets on the roof.
He does the army crawl, you know, up the
the back of the roof, the Secret Service agents see him.
They call it in.
Other people, spectators call it in.
There's a guy up there with a rifle.
There's a guy crawling on the roof.
The Secret Service agent is told not to take the shot to allow them to check it out first.
They send in the police.
Police officer climbs up the ladder, approaches him, says, hey, what's going on?
The kid turns around.
So Crooks turns around with his rifle, points it at him.
The guy gets freaked out, jumps backwards and actually falls off the roof.
The cop. The cop does.
So he falls off the roof.
Crooks immediately turns around, gets into position and starts firing at Trump very quickly.
And so the Secret Service agent that had been told not to fire starts to take some out.
You know, he'd been told to wait.
We're checking it out.
So and so he goes ahead and takes them out.
He heard the bullets flying.
He heard the bullets flying.
So he says, that this kid, you know, it's over.
He shoots him from what I understand is the sniper that we all see in that image on the
route or the video on the roof where there's two of them, right, that are basically like
kind of parallel to Trump but facing the kid, right, is that they had scoped in on that guy
five minutes prior.
Yeah, yeah, I heard three minutes.
But yeah, I heard it.
So I heard it was five minutes from a guy that I heard that actually talked to him.
OK, I can't I can say who it was yet, but a significant amount of time is five minutes.
And then he radioed his superiors telling them about that.
And they said, stand down, do not take the shot or whatever.
But that's because most likely because they had said, hey, let's get somebody up on that
roof to see what's going on.
And that's why they send the police up there.
So the local cops, the sheriff's, right, they go and they find the ladder and they
climb up there.
OK, but the the scope on that sniper can see the boogers in that guy's nose.
I agree.
You are telling me that those snipers can't tell that he's got a rifle in his hands.
I agree, but they called it in.
Like, you know, keep in mind, too, you don't know that he actually had his the sniper
rifle on Trump at that time.
At that time, he may have just been army man crawling slowly up the roof and they see
a guy crawling.
Maybe he's sliding the gun.
They don't know if he's got a gun.
Like, you don't really know what he called in and then he calls it in and they say, OK,
wait a minute, we're send somebody over there.
Like, you know, is he you don't know whether he said, well, I don't know that he's immediate.
He's an immediate threat.
At that moment, he may not have known that.
Now, once the officer falls and the kid turns around and immediately takes aim, as soon
as he sees that, it's like, holy shit, the kid starts firing, which luckily he was.
He was obviously anxiety.
He's panicked.
He just starts firing.
Luckily, he doesn't get a good shot.
Right.
I mean, with a scope and that and only you're only a hundred, you're 130 yards away.
Steve, you're going to hit him.
Steve, can you play the video that basically does the countdown of the people screaming
at the guy that's climbing up?
Yeah, someone's on top of the roof.
Look, there he is right there.
Right there.
See him playing down.
Yeah, he's laying down.
Oh, see, like, they don't really know what's happening.
See, there's a cop down there.
Why?
Yeah, look, there he is.
They're talking to the officer.
Now it happened and recorded history at the best border.
In fact, if it showed the cop walking along the side of that building, looking up at the guy,
you don't mind if I go off teleprompter, do you?
This is the teleprompter.
You need to stand more and try to explain that.
Oh, there's a while you guys are doing it, they're getting better with time.
My guys, take a look at that.
Take a look at the arrow on the bottom.
See the big red arrow, right?
Minut 20.
So it's been a minute 20 since the guy was spotted, right?
So they've sent the cop, he's probably climbed up, he's climbing up right now, right?
Finds it, finds the ladder, puts the ladder against the roof, starts climbing up the ladder.
Yeah, and then the worst president in the history of our country took over.
And look what happened to our country.
Now, what's this?
What's going on here?
I think they're walking just to look.
Now, look right here.
Why are these guys shooting people off from behind Trump?
Now they have radio.
Look at the snipers.
You pause it.
OK, now he just shot.
So right before the bullets came, the Secret Service were basically like
shooting people out from behind Trump.
You see them like rushing people out photographers.
There's a guy sprinting.
All right.
The bullets just to you, man.
So it was two minutes, right?
Since they since.
Yeah.
Well, that's good.
They said they said the sniper had him in his sights for three minutes.
So whatever, three, two to three minutes.
So but keep in mind that time period there at some point, supposedly somebody went up
on the roof, a police officer or a sheriff's deputy, whatever actually went up
on the roof and the kid turned around and frightened him and he fell.
I heard that from I'm only saying that because I heard that from two different
news organizations. Both of them said the same thing.
Like, no, they actually came up on the roof.
But as soon as he did it, the kid.
Steve, have you sold those little UFO things yet?
No, sales are just too daunting for me.
That's why we're sponsored by Shopify, man.
With Shopify, it doesn't matter how small you are or what you sell.
They help you sell it everywhere across the globe from their all in one online
platform to their in person point of sale system.
Turn browsers into buyers with the Internet's best converting checkout platform
at 30 percent better on average compared to other platforms and sell way more
with considerably less effort with Shopify magic, your AI powered all star.
As I've mentioned before, we use Shopify for our website that we use for
the podcast to sell our merch. It's easy.
It's user friendly. Anyone can set it up.
It takes like 10 minutes to set up to connect your domain name to it.
You can set up discount codes.
You can upload variants of different merch.
It's just it's unbelievably easy for anyone.
There's no comparison.
Shopify hands down wins.
Wow. Shopify's award winning help powers 10 percent of all e-commerce in the U.S.
Steve, you're going to find it to be a breeze with Shopify.
So if you guys want to check out Shopify and help support the show,
you can sign up now for a $1 per month trial at Shopify.com slash Danny Jones.
That's all lowercase Shopify.com slash D A N N Y J O N E S
to grow your business no matter what stage you're at.
Again, that's Shopify.com slash Danny Jones.
It's linked below now back to the show.
He obviously panicked and started firing.
He's like, I got to fire now.
These guys are cut. They know I'm up here.
This guy just fell. I got to fire. Right.
And so he just pop up, pop up, pop up.
So my question is if the snipers knew that the kid was up there five minutes
when they're five minutes prior to the shooting and they're radiating
radioing into their superior, telling him about it.
And they're saying, don't fire on him. Right.
Why not fire on him for five minutes?
Are they not focusing on him for that entire five minutes?
Are they just like chilling?
I think they are. Oh, no, I'm sure.
Are they just like they've got them in his sights, right? Right.
OK, so I'll take him out of my sight.
So the second he pulls the barrel of his gun up, they're seeing that, right?
Right.
So there was obviously quite a bit of delay to when he pulls his barrel up,
looks through the scope, finds Trump and starts popping off.
There was a probably how long you think that would take?
Ten seconds? Yeah, I was going to say five, ten seconds.
Seems like a long time. Seems like a long time.
And then if you and then go down to where Trump was,
the Secret Service dog piled him pretty much immediately, pretty quick,
like two or three seconds to take them to dogpile him.
Then they then he stood up after I don't know how long that was,
but he stood up and then the guys like six three,
he stood up and he's tower overing these guys, towering over these guys.
And they're like a couple of them.
One guy, the guy who looks like Andrew Schultz,
he's like holding his hand above his head.
Another guy is like holding his hand over here, like and Trump,
like he barges through six of them to do his like fight, fight, fight thing.
And and if there are if this is like a JFK scenario,
where there's multiple shooters, like a triangular hit team,
right, Trump's done wide open.
His head was wide open.
They let him stand up and like because he said, hold on, hold on, hold on.
And he got out and they didn't know if there was another shooter.
Right. Maybe they got in something in their ear.
There you could you could hear like the radio chatter.
They're saying like, what do we do now?
What are we going to shoot her down?
Shoot her down.
That's probably why they stood him up and say, let's go.
And they don't know.
They didn't know if there was another shooter or not.
So if there was another shooter, he'd be he'd be gone, gone.
But then again, Trump's he's too big to carry.
It's like they need his help to get off the stage.
It's not like they're going to pick him up and still they're the fucking
secret service and there's like seven, six or seven of them.
Right.
And then there was the one secret service lady.
Do you see her hiding behind everybody?
The tiny one.
She was like cowering down behind everybody, like hiding.
Yeah. Well, you know, diversity hire.
Yeah. I mean, first of all, if I'm six foot three, I.
You're stupid.
If I'm six foot three, you don't get to be five foot two and and protect me.
Like, I feel like that's a lot of me that's available.
And these are the these are the main parts that people shoot at.
Like, I'm going to need a taller broad.
Right.
She's going to have to be at least six foot with heels.
I'll take her with heels, you know, platform shoes, something.
Can't get a five foot one, five foot two chick.
No. I mean, for me, yeah, that'd be fine.
But no. Yeah.
And it's easy, you know, like I said, you know,
we're sitting here in air conditioning with our microphones,
talking about what they did. Yeah, of course.
I was talking to this guy.
I'm not saying I know anything.
I was talking to Rick Prada, who's a legendary CIA paramilitary guy who
he was a counterterrorism, special forces, clandestine
operation specialist for the CIA.
He was in Nicaragua and Costa Rica, like in the 80s during IRA and Contra.
He's been in a lot of these situations, not like.
But he he he wasn't a part of the secret service,
but he actually trained with Secret Service in like the 80s and the 90s,
trained with those guys and he knows a lot of them.
And he was like his point was that like, yeah, you plan for this stuff a lot.
But he goes in every single situation like this, whether it be in combat,
in war, in black ops or in a Trump rally.
He goes after the first bullet flies, after the first bullet flies,
you can be as prepared as humanly possible.
But after that first bullet flies, your plan goes out the window.
Right.
It's the mice dice and everybody's got a plan until they get punched.
Exactly. Everybody's out of.
Yes, exactly, man.
You said everything goes out the window once the first bullet flies.
I think everybody's screaming about the Secret Service agent, too.
I think that also, look, you know, they have like an action plan, right?
Like they got it all laid out.
They know where everybody is.
They know everything.
But if you've been with the Secret Service and you're dealing with the local
sheriff's deputies and, you know, cops or police stations and everything,
like these people don't work well together.
You know, local sheriffs and police don't like the Secret Service.
The Secret Service think that they're, you know, morons.
And the truth is, is that when you lay it all out and you look at all,
and the first of all, and the rallies are happening one after another, after another.
Can imagine how quickly they have to, they're constantly seeing different plans.
And so that sniper on the roof, looking at this guy, you and I can say,
you saw him, you saw he had a rifle, you should have shot him.
Well, one, you don't know how long he knew he had a rifle.
It may have only been for a few seconds.
He's being told, stand down.
We got somebody up there.
We got somebody going up there.
Oh, OK. So in your mind, you're kind of thinking they've got it handled.
And the other problem is, is that during this period of time,
what if he sees him and shoots him and finds out, oh, my gosh,
we didn't have those buildings.
We didn't have enough Secret Service Snipers to have those buildings covered.
And we agreed to let the local SWAT team station a guy on the roof.
And that was the local SWAT team guy.
He wasn't a part of our action plan.
Oh, my God, you just killed.
You just killed a SWAT team member.
He's been a police officer for 25 years.
Right. And then you're like, I and then they're saying,
we told you to stand down.
Do you see him saying like, I get it?
Yeah, I mean, everybody's screaming.
You should have known you should I get it.
But you don't know everything that's happening in this guy's head.
He's being told no, no, no, no.
And he may be thinking, yeah, I think I know where everybody is.
But what if I don't and I'm being told to stand down?
Now, look, let's face it.
Once the kid got up and started firing, he shot him.
Does it take him three seconds to make sure
he's going to shoot the right kid, hit the kid?
Maybe that's what took four to five or six seconds.
Maybe it took him three seconds to realize.
Oh, my God. I got a perfect shot.
Activifier and another three or four seconds to get a perfect shot.
And boom, takes them out.
Yeah, because I guess if you think about it,
I mean, I've never shot a sniper rifle, but I imagine like, look,
if you you would you would want him to take the shot quicker.
But if he took the shot quick and missed.
Oh, yeah. Imagine the time it would take to reload it.
Yeah. Then there it would be way, you know,
that would be way worse for sure.
Listen, look, you know, it's obviously that.
But there was two snipers. Yeah.
Possibly four. Did you see how they were also kind of like
looking at the scope, kind of checking like what like he like jumped back
and like grabbed it and the tripod kind of fell back. Yeah.
He they're both like what obviously there was action happening.
It's got the most boring fucking job in the world.
It's like being any any law enforcement sitting on a roof for four hours.
It's tons of boredom with two minutes of complete fucking adrenaline.
I mean, how many hours has this fucking guy spent on roofs
looking through a scope and nothing has happened? Yeah. Right.
Imagine how many snipers have been there whole lives
and never fire at a real person, you know.
But I mean, I, I, I, you know, it's it's so easy to double to, to, you know,
what do you call it Monday, Monday morning quarterback him. Yeah. Yeah.
Here's the real problem is why was no one on the roof to begin with.
And it was so close.
Like, like you couldn't put a sheriff's deputy sitting up there on a
you couldn't give him a fold up chair.
Some fat sheriff deputy couldn't have sat up there.
Well, they didn't I mean, they they should have, but they had a guy.
They had a sheriff deputy walking around, climbing up the ladder.
Yeah, but they don't have a radio.
They don't have a radio.
They're not on the same channel as these guys that they can't go squawks.
Walk. What's your 20?
We got a kid with a AR 15 on the roof.
What about the 30 clicks to the right?
What about the guy that's a part of that committee that was that was in Congress
that was trying to pull his dude?
Yeah, they were trying to pull secrets of his secret service.
What do you do? Like, what are you doing, bro?
Like, you know, like, like, you know, whether you like Biden or Trump,
it's like the people that and this is tons of people on on TikTok.
Like, I'm amazed my my videos will get taken out on TikTok.
If I say the word gun or if somebody says somebody says something even slightly,
we're telling a story about a guy who pulled a gun or telling a story
about a guy who's selling drugs.
They get, you know, community violation, this and that.
But you got people on there right now saying that
too bad the guy missed.
He should have been a better shot. It's too bad. Oh, my God.
He almost got rid of this guy, Trump.
And it's like the thing is, when people say that, at least they're consistent,
right? They're calling him Hitler.
And they hope they're at least they're being honest.
They've been calling him Hitler this whole time.
And now they're basically saying that they were they're pissed off.
He didn't die. At least they're consistent.
There's also a group that's saying, he's Hitler.
He's Hitler. He's Hitler.
Oh, my, our thoughts and prayers are with Trump.
The same. But here's the thing.
The same people that are saying that he's a threat to democracy
want to take out democracy.
Like this is how we're voting.
This is one party. This is the other. That's democracy.
You're you're one.
You want them to take out one of the two parties.
Yes. Yes.
If I say he's a threat to democracy, let's take him out.
Like, are you fucking insane?
Do you know how insane that sounds?
Like the practice, you know, our our country is built on on voting.
Like, just vote, like, figure it out. I get it.
Do I think Trump should have, you know, like, you know, the
whatever I think, oh, him denying that he lost the election.
Bro, you lost the election.
You know what I'm saying? Like, you lost. I get it.
There's there's this, there's that there's all kinds of issues.
There's some extra ballot here. These weren't counted.
I understand. But in the end, it's over.
Like quit denying quit.
That just say, look, I lost and we're but I'm going to get it next time.
That's fine. You know, I don't think it was fair, whatever.
I lost. You got that.
But to sit here and say that I'm going to take out the other party.
Like, that's just insanity.
Like, what kind of a person are you that I
I mean, might not like fighting, but I don't want the guy to die.
Yeah, I don't want to take him out.
The kid was a fucking 20 year old
whose brain was not fully developed yet
and is probably on a junk load of SRIs.
Ridlin, Ridlin, yeah, maybe Ridlin, anti-depressants.
Every every school shooter in history had a laundry list of prescription
pharmaceutical prescriptions.
What about his dad? Like, his dad hasn't.
I don't know anything about his dad.
Oh, his dad's just saying like he's not.
He's like, I have no idea why he would have done this.
Like, I don't I didn't see any signs that this was an issue.
None. That's what his father's saying.
The other thing is then there were people in the
there were people in the comments who were saying because he's he's a registered
Republican, the kid is apparently that's what a lot of Antifa people did.
And then they're saying he
but there's also people saying, yeah, he voted and he voted for Trump
last time. Well, he couldn't have voted for Trump.
He would have been 17 years old.
Yeah, he would have been exactly 16 years old.
But you see him saying like it makes no sense.
People make these rash.
They say these things immediately.
And then I had another guy.
I watched another couple of there's a couple of these where they're like,
he's a registered Republican.
He voted for Trump the first time.
But he's so he's been he's now been so disenfranchised with all of Trump's lies.
He decided to do the right thing and get rid of Trump.
It's like he didn't vote for Trump, right?
You know, like everything you're saying is ridiculous.
Like you're just making up stuff.
So anyway, well, what are those are the conspiracies that I've heard?
What is what is your what are your have you heard anything?
What are your thoughts?
The one that I heard today from a friend of mine who is I won't say his name,
but he was in the CIA and he's not.
I don't think he wanted this to be public,
but this was just what he told me in privacy and confidence over the phone.
And I haven't heard this anywhere else is he believes
that this guy was not acting alone.
He believes that he was coerced into doing this and subverted into doing this
by an intelligence agency.
That'd be the reason not the CIA.
Right. Well, that'd be the Patsy thing, right?
He thinks that this guy was coerced
by a foreign intelligence agency of another country.
Sorry. Yeah, I had not heard that.
OK, no, neither had I until this morning when I talked to my buddy.
No. And he said that the one intelligence agency
who is the best at doing this kind of shit,
taking mentally unstable people like this and getting them to commit
to terrorist crimes, Mossad, Iran.
No, not Mossad.
Mossad just gave Trump like two hundred million dollars.
I don't know. I threw one out there.
It was a messiah, the one that's protecting this guy.
Oh, yeah, yeah, well, they love Trump.
Oh, yeah. What did he do?
He moved the what did he do?
He moved the embassy.
The embassy where? To Jerusalem?
Yeah, he's acknowledged. Oh, yeah.
The capital or whatever state.
But this guy said the IRGC is the best
at pulling off operations like this.
Well, I mean, he failed.
He wasn't a great shooter.
But this is very.
You can't account for the fly in the way of what they would do.
Yeah, you can't account for the guy climbing up on the
in a ladder and saying, excuse me, what are you doing?
Yeah, you couldn't account for that.
Yeah. So if it was a foreign intelligence agency,
how did they just get lucky that the secret service was so incompetent?
I wonder what what how much bomb material he had.
Like that, that I wonder because like, OK, let's say he he got out there
and he said, OK, I can't get on the roof.
Like there's no way there's too many cops.
I'm never going to be able to do it.
Fuck it. Oh, that was his backup plan.
Right. Then what was his backup plan?
I'm going to go get my car when Trump leaves.
I'm going to shoot right up next to him and I'm going to pull this lever
and boom, my car will blow up and I'll take him out too.
Like it was or I don't I just don't understand how much material he had in the car.
Like they even said that they just said it was bomb making material.
They had to get the bomb squad.
It was bomb making material, whatever.
I just don't know how much was his car nearby.
I don't know.
There was another thing where they were saying about the secret service,
like how did he get his vehicle parked this close to to the rally?
So in my opinion, they're alluding to the fact that it had gotten through security,
that it must have been close for them to be blaming the secret service.
Like, how did they not catch this?
Well, they didn't catch it because it was a mile and a half away.
Like they never saw the car.
That's one thing.
But they the the stuff that I'm reading makes it sound like it went through security somehow.
Well, I mean, you know, maybe had in the trunk, the guard sniffing dogs didn't get it.
Who knows? So I don't really know where it was.
Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, if you look at who has motive to want Trump gone, I mean,
just look at the last couple of years.
I mean, why would Iran want him gone?
Like Biden's the one who's bombing Iran.
Like, yeah, well, well, Iran, obviously, they don't have a good relationship with Israel.
Saudi Arabia and Israel are kind of aligned against Iran.
Iran doesn't like the three the three headed dragon that is our and the three countries
that are our biggest enemies are China, Russia and Iran.
OK.
So it would probably be one of the one of those three, right?
If it was, those are our biggest enemies in the world.
North Korea is North Korea is more like a fucking just like a nuisance to us.
How do you get to how do you get to a 20 year old?
How do you turn a 20 year old?
I don't know.
You see what I'm saying?
Like, I'm assuming that's going to take some time.
His father is going to miss him for the the 30 days it's going to take to brain to break
this kid down, brainwash and reprogram and stick him back.
That's what Alex Jones is saying.
This has got MK ultra written all over it.
Like he was fucking brainwashed.
I mean, his dad, it's not like you would think when the when the authority showed up,
he would say like, he was gone for 90 days.
Just got back a week ago and said, hey, dad, I'm going to a rally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or he has he got back, he was gone for 90 days, showed up and said, dad,
can you order this rifle for me?
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
Who has motive, right?
To to take out Trump.
Well, I mean, look at the fucking United States.
They fucking they went after Trump.
He beat the impeachment.
He beat Russia gate.
He beat the civil cases.
He beat the 34 bogus felonies.
He did.
Well, you know, he didn't beat that.
He got he well, he got he found he found guilty the felonies, but it put him in a higher regard
to the American public because we everyone saw through the bullshit.
So what it did do is you're right.
What it did do is it didn't destroy his credibility, which is what they were hoping for.
Right.
Like if we if we indict him and we try him and we convict him,
it will destroy his credibility, not realizing that absolutely didn't harm him at all.
That actually made him more popular.
Yes.
But exactly.
The whole show trial, the whole show trial basically showed it was like the Streisand effect kind of
what's going to be more interesting is that when the state of New York
appellate court overturns, like if they actually if it actually gets overturned by the appellate
court, then it's just one more slap in the face.
Like, hey, you tried me.
You had a little you had a little banana was a banana republic kangaroo court put together.
And you guys found me guilty.
But then when it got to the appellate court, they overturned it.
And guess what?
I'm not a felon now.
So you guys had a good time calling me a felon.
And now I'm not a felon.
And then the document case was just thrown out.
They just threw out the fucking document, the classified document case today.
Yeah.
So that was thrown out.
Why did they do that?
Well, you know, I how crazy is that?
I think it was suspended for a while because there were there were so many things that the
Can you find an article on that, Steve?
The classified document case being dropped.
There were all of these kind of things that the FBI that had done.
They had withheld evidence.
They had staged photographs.
Like there was all these things that made it look very staged.
And as a result, they the the judge had kind of like put it suspended it for a while.
Like we're going to suspend it for a while.
And then he finally just said, you know what?
I'm throwing it all out.
Trump's classified document case dismissed by judge Eileen Cannon.
So can you find out why they did it?
Or if there's like a if you can like find like skim through it or find an article that explains
why they did it.
It said ruling on that one.
So I think, oh, I think I read it earlier, but I believe it was because something about
the prosecutor.
By the way, you see the Alex Baldwin thing about his case?
Oh, that he they dropped the charges.
They dropped the charges.
Yeah, because they withheld the evidence about the bullets.
No.
What fucking insane.
Judge dismissed his classified document case against Trump ruled that the entire case should
be thrown out because of the appointment of the special counsel who brought the case.
Jack Smith had violated the Constitution.
He indicated the plan he indicated he planned to appeal.
So he's going to appeal.
Okay.
Well, that's not going to do anything.
Right.
So yeah, it's just crazy that this happens two days after they fucking try to kill him.
Like they're giving him a straight shot.
He I mean, he has a straight shot.
He is the he's essentially the president-elect right now.
One, can he survive to January 20th?
That's the thing, right?
Like I talked to this guy and a guy I interviewed actually for something else, but he we were
texting back and forth and he was like, you know, everybody thinks like, because I was like,
oh, he's walking straight into office now.
And he's like, yeah, but you have to understand.
He's like, that's you're assuming he survives.
Right.
He is this still this guy's got a lot of of highly publicized events between now and then
where he could be taken out.
Like if it was if they were smart, they'd retreat and say, okay, we fucked up.
We'll try again in four years.
We'll get another guy in.
We'll get somebody in.
But or they say, hey, let's double down.
We'll just take him out at all means possible and try and bury the evidence and get away with it.
So I was watching Alex Jones, Alex Jones videos all day.
And he's saying that they're going to go for broke now.
So that's that's from saying he's saying they lean all in.
They are going to go all in balls to the wall.
They're going to kill this motherfucker.
And he also said that after the after he wins the election, he said, don't be surprised if
you're going to see a lot of false flag events happening.
Like he claims they're going to run truck bombs into like black churches and stuff and try to
incite some sort of a race war and blame it on Trump supporters.
Like trying to target minority communities and use those as false flags to incite some
sort of a crazy civil race war.
And then, you know, Julian said it best on his little live stream he did yesterday.
He said that if that bullet would have hit Trump, he said it wouldn't be a civil war.
He's like civil wars.
That's cute.
You think it's going to be a civil war.
He goes, that's going to be like the bullet that took out France,
Ferdinand that started World War one.
Right.
He goes, it's going to be World War three if that would have killed Trump.
You wouldn't be able to go outside, dude.
You still haven't seen Civil War.
I haven't watched Civil War yet.
No.
I got to watch it.
Did you ever watch the video where the kid goes over what, what, how a civil war would play out
today?
Yes.
Oh, I haven't watched the whole thing.
Wasn't it, oh, okay.
I haven't watched it.
I need, I need to watch that.
But I, you told me about this though.
Yeah.
He breaks it down so good.
He's so like, like he's, he could care less.
Like he's like, he's just matter of factly like, here's this, here's that.
Here's how many, here's how many National Guard troops are in this
state. Here's how many, you know, here's how many, you know, he just breaks it all down
very clearly.
Like this is why they end up winning.
Here's why.
Who wins?
Who wins?
Who wins?
He ends up saying that the South wins because basically what he does is he,
it's not even against necessarily, he assumes if you were to break up the states exactly the
way it was split during the Civil War, right?
The Confederacy and the, and the Union.
And you took the same states.
He said, well, the states are much different now.
There's a massive difference now because now there's infrastructure.
There's all kinds of things.
And you have all these state, these National Guards units, right?
So you assume that the National Guards units go with the states.
So now Florida has how many different, you know what I'm saying?
So basically if you break the military apart that way, you're on pretty equal footing.
The real problem is, is that he's like, look, you don't have to invade California.
You know, what you do is you just cut them off from their water source,
which is coming from out of state.
And electrical, which is coming from out of state.
Like he just, also food, they don't make enough food to feed themselves.
I mean, yeah, they have, you know, they have yam yams and, you know, almonds and stuff like
that, but that's not enough to feed you.
Like they've got a bunch of foods that they do produce, but not enough to feed their entire
population.
So he's like, and the interstates, there's only like three interstates that basically
go that way.
He's like, you just cut those off.
It's not hard to stop them from feeding themselves.
The confederate states can feed themselves.
So he breaks off same thing with power lines.
He basically is like, you just, you don't even have to attack.
You just starve them out.
And he was like, so if you take that plus battles, if the battles are fought and you
base it on the numbers, he starts doing the numbers too.
Listen, you, he lays it all out and in the end,
look, and there can't, doesn't win in a pro-tracted battle.
They just don't win.
Yeah. If there was a civil war, I don't think it would be like a Democrat versus Republican
type thing.
All right.
Well, I mean, he's basically basing it off of what if the civil war was fought today?
That's what it is.
But if there was a civil war fought today, who would be the two fighting parties?
It would be, it would be obviously like Republican, right wing Trump or even Libertarians,
Trump types.
Which is comical, by the way.
One other thing that was just comical because during the civil war, the South was the
Democrats, the North were the Republicans.
So that's comical because it's actually swaps.
Lincoln was a Republican, right?
So now it's like Florida is Republican, Texas is Republican.
Like you start adding them up.
It's swapped during Kennedy.
Yeah.
Kennedy was the one who changed that.
So.
So yeah, so Kennedy, when he was running, he, John,
John Newman explained this beautifully to us.
What happened during the Kennedy election was his campaign ran an operation to basically
market themselves in black churches all around the country.
And they got, they recruited like a preacher to go around and basically give these pamphlets
and these flyers out to all the people in the black churches to try to win over the black vote.
He was also, I think he, I think he was talking.
I don't know if Kennedy actually met with MLK, but his brother did.
Right.
And, and this was like last minute thing and it swung the black vote like crazy.
Well, Martin Luther King was a Republican.
So they went after the, yeah, you can look it up.
Yeah.
It was, there was a word, there was a word for it that he used.
I forget what he called.
He called it was like, he was like, you can probably find a Steve.
I forget.
There was a great word for it.
Because up until Kennedy, Lyndon Mee Johnson, up until that era, the Republicans were the ones
who were pushing through all the legislation for blacks.
Right.
So up until that point, and they just, they flip flopped it.
Yep.
They said, you know what, this is not going well for us.
Right.
It's obviously, it's going to happen.
So we need to take on this agenda.
We need to make this agenda, take it away from the Republicans and make it a Democratic agenda.
And they did.
They very successfully over the next several Presidencies did that, you know, which is super
successful.
What were we talking about before we talked about JFK?
Oh, we were talking about if a civil war were fought today.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But before that, we were talking about, oh, you were talking about, okay.
Yeah.
You were talking about during the civil war, you were saying the South were the,
were the Democrats?
Yeah.
Yeah.
They were slave owners.
Yeah.
They were the slave owners.
They were, that was the Klu Klux Klan, the cotton farmers, the whole thing was all Democrats.
Listen, Democrats didn't, like the Emancipation Proclamation, Democrats didn't vote for that.
That was all Republican.
Like all of these things were Republican agendas.
But then, yeah, you're right.
Kennedy, you know, good looking guy, goes in there, like you said, black churches, gets
a bunch of reverends, starts pitching to them, civil rights and takes that away from the Republican
party.
Like brilliant, bro.
You have to admit that's brilliant.
Like this is one of their winning campaigns.
Let's take that from them.
Let's make it ours and make them the bad guys.
Yeah.
You know, I think it was after the civil war, there was the Mexican Revolution.
I think it was like in 1910, I believe.
You know, and Mexico used to basically contain all of Texas and most of, all of New Mexico and
lots of Southern California.
Mexico was massive.
It ate up a lot of the United States, like current United States.
And then after the Mexican Revolution, they did a deal.
When was the Mexican Revolution?
Can you find that shirt?
When was it?
I can't believe it.
I said 1910.
Well, you said 1910.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Can you find out when the Mexican Revolution was?
And then find out, like show like the map of Mexico before the Mexican Revolution.
And yeah, 1910, I got it.
Woo!
Look at that, bro.
Man.
Had no idea.
I wouldn't have even said it was.
No, I would have.
And then show us a map of Mexico before the Mexican Revolution.
And so after we got Texas, right, it was so big and obviously,
like the whole area of Texas was slave owners, right?
And they wanted to divide.
Look at that, bro.
That's not it.
That's not it.
Is that it?
I mean, you can't really tell if you can't see like the whole map of the U.S.
Anyway, so they wanted to cut Texas up into a bunch of states.
So they would have more voting power for slavery.
And they were like, no, no, no, no, no, that's why Texas is so big.
They had to make it one big state so they didn't get more voting power, like more states.
Right.
So, okay.
So you only get a few senators.
Right, exactly.
So it was all about like control of slavery.
Did you ever see in the line, back to the assassinations,
did you ever see in the line of fire?
No, with Clint Eastwood?
No.
Oh my God, bro.
So what a great movie.
I mean, what a great Clint Eastwood movie too.
And he's probably in his 60s when he did this movie.
He plays a secret service agent that was a part of JFK's detail.
When he gets shot.
And so it's like, literally it's like 30, 40 years later.
And he's still a secret, like longest.
He was the youngest secret service agent at the time,
longest running secret service agent.
And what happens is they end up going into an apartment where
the landlady comes into the apartment, there's something smoking,
whatever, she accidentally enters the apartment and finds this wall filled with
photographs of the current president and bull's eyes on his head.
All these different schematics of different rallies he's been at,
shooting points, you know, that sort of thing.
Like, oh my gosh, like this is somebody who's planning on killing the president.
He goes there to check it out because she calls the secret service.
A couple of days later, they come, they check it out.
Clint Eastwood's character is the main guy.
Well, while he's there, the shooter sees him.
So the shooter sees him and realizes who he is and starts communicating with him.
And so they know that this assassin is planning on killing the president.
And it shows how he ends up getting himself to a position to kill the president.
And you know, John F. Kennedy said, like, anybody can kill the president as long as
they're willing to trade places, as long as they're willing to forfeit their life, right?
And this really, if you watch this movie, let me tell you something, bro.
The way the guy gets close, like he basically, and granted, there's money involved.
So what he does is he, I don't know if it's Republican.
The president is Republican or Democrat.
Let's say he's a Republican.
So what happens is he ends up, oh, it's John Malkovich, right?
Like he's the, he's the shooter.
So he starts donating.
So he's got a fake name, fake driver's license, fake everything.
His company's fake.
It's got a history, everything.
And he's continually donating to the party.
And so eventually the Republican party, you know, whatever the net chairman
or whoever is involved with the chapter that he's, you know, friendly with,
eventually he says, hey, there's, there's a rally coming up or a dinner, you know,
a $10,000 plate dinner, you know, they have a, they'll pay you pay $10,000.
There's 500 people.
They raised $5 million and you get a picture with the president.
So you're going to be next to the president at some point.
So he gets himself invited to this dinner and he's built himself a composite gun.
Just like he makes a Dillinger, a very rudimentary Dillinger, right?
With two bullets.
And so it's two bullets.
He puts it, he has a fake stomach and he, now this is obviously before like the really good
x-ray machines that, that swoop around you and can really check you out,
builds this gun right here.
Wow.
And he puts it in the fake stomach and the bullets he has in a, a rabbit's foot.
So when he goes through the metal detector, he puts it in the little tray.
You know, his keys, the rabbit's foot with the keys.
A plastic gun.
No, no, not the plastic gun.
The guns in his belly, but that can go through the metal detector.
Right.
Cause it's composite with no bullets in it.
The bullets are in the rabbit's foot, which he throws in the tray.
You know how it used to be, you would throw all your, your keys in the tray.
Mm-hmm.
So the rabbit foot has the bullets in it.
Right.
Throws him in the tray, walks through, they pat him down, no problem.
He goes to sit next to, you know, close to the president under the table.
He puts the, the bullets in, puts the gun together.
And then as the president comes along and shaking people's hands and you picture taken with him,
he's right next to the fucking guy with a, with a gun that has two bullets in it.
Bam.
And then he can shoot himself.
Wow.
I'm not going to ruin the, I mean, I'll ruin the movie here.
If it's been 30 years or 20 years, nobody's going to see it.
Go ahead, ruin it.
You know, obviously Clint Eastwood at the last minute runs and jumps in front of the president,
takes the fucking bullet, you know, the guy shoots somebody else and gets on the elevator
with Clint Eastwood and there's a whole thing, saves the president.
But the point is, if you watch it, you're like, man, that seems like it'd work.
Like how hard is it?
Listen, I got a buddy, Donovan Davis, the guy from the Gap.
Yeah.
Best story ever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Donovan's got pictures with George Bush.
I had my old, Rudy Arnauth, which is a guy was one of my business partners.
He has photos of him with, where he paid $10,000 or I think he paid like $5,000
to be, to go to a fundraiser for, for Bush.
He's got photos of him with Bush.
Wow.
You know?
So it's not that difficult.
Now granted, there's money involved.
This guy probably donated 50 to $100,000 to get, and this is 30 years ago,
maybe it's a couple hundred thousand to get yourself in the same room.
But it's not, it's not that.
If you're willing to realize like, hey, once I fire this, like I'm dead,
they're either going to kill me or the rest of my life in prison.
You know, most people are just not willing to do that.
They're just not, no matter how politically polarized they are.
They're just like, look, I just don't want to die.
Right, right.
Like there's not people crazy enough, right?
Like this kid, this, this kid that just did this the other day,
I mean, he was clearly out of his fucking mind.
But crazy enough, here's the problem is if you are crazy enough,
you're usually not competent enough.
That kid just happened to be crazy and competent.
Yeah, how competent though?
I mean, he knew how to shoot a gun, but he didn't really know how to shoot a gun.
He wasn't a good shooter.
Listen, if that cop hadn't been up there, if that had gone down a little bit different,
he may have killed, actually, I think the sniper probably would have killed him.
But that could have gone, he fired eight shots there, going right by a truck.
Yeah, right, right.
That one hit him.
I'm thinking that's maybe not a hundred percent competent.
It's pretty close.
Yeah, it was more competent than I want my assassin.
It was pretty fucking close.
You know, I've been thinking the biggest, the biggest thing that I can't get over here
is like every, but I would say what percentage of me, I mean, there's,
what percentage of people think that this guy was a lone nut versus this was the CIA?
I feel like that's the two main camps that, that areas of belief here with this whole situation.
I think a majority of them believe that it was the CIA or the deep state trying to take out Trump
because there's so much stuff that's happened in the last few years with the,
with the show trial in New York, with the 34 felonies, well, you know, now this,
the Russia gate, all this stuff, look who has the motive to see that the United States apparatus,
whoever's running this thing in the shadows is the one I believe that has the most motive.
Whether that's, this is true or not, I don't know, but it seems like that's what
the consensus is of most people on the internet that I've seen.
You know, it's really like, what did Trump do last time that was so bad?
He had four years.
If he was going to do something insane, he would have done it.
Right.
And plus there's checks and balances.
He, a president doesn't have that much power.
What did John F. Kennedy say a month before he was killed?
He said he was going to remove 100,000 troops out of Vietnam every month for four months.
Right.
So 400,000 troops out of Vietnam.
That was a military coup.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff did not want that to happen.
They had a crazy nuclear war planned in New China and Russia.
Kennedy and his brother wanted nothing to do with it.
And he said, you guys, I'm pulling out all the troops.
A month later, he's dead.
What did Trump say?
Trump said, I am going to stop the funding to Ukraine for this war against Russia,
and I'm going to end this war.
Right.
Then they, then a bullet flies and half inch away from his fucking temple.
It's eight of them.
I mean, it's, it's really, you got to have, there's got to be, I mean,
and he pulled, they killed that poor guy in the crowd.
Everybody forgets about that guy.
I know the poor guy.
That's just, the firefighter, no less trying to, his daughter was there.
His wife was there.
And there's still people that want to say that it was fake.
Like, yeah, get the fuck out of here.
So this is my, my biggest problem with this is like,
it makes sense until the bullet misses him.
Because if it really was the CIA, Trump would be dead.
Yeah.
Well, maybe it's just a fluke.
They would have turned his hand.
They would have had a backup plan.
They would have had multiple shooters.
You would, I mean, I'm sure the kids shot their folks.
I really find it hard to believe that if it was the military or a US agency that they would have missed.
Well, keep in mind too, maybe the first thing is let's sit in this kid,
maybe he's competent enough to pull it off.
Maybe the second one is, okay.
He's a human, right?
Yeah.
He wasn't competent enough.
But don't worry, there's some more rallies coming up.
Yeah.
Or, yeah, you know what I'm saying?
Like, hey, don't worry.
He'll be out in the open again.
We'll get him next time.
Right.
We have to, you know, clearly, like what we need is some shorter secret service agents.
Can we get five foot one female agents?
Jesus Christ, dude.
The fact that he has the goddamn balls to keep doing this stuff.
He went golfing the next fucking day.
I know.
Did you see that?
Yeah, he did like, there was a report from the cart boy who's like, yeah.
He goes, I watched him do a 20 foot putt with a two foot break.
He sunk the goddamn putt and said,
the difference between me and that shooter is I don't miss.
What a savage.
Come on.
I mean, Jesus Christ, you can't, you can't, I mean.
You can't make this shit up.
You can't make this shit up.
You can't write, you can't write a better script, dude.
And then with what he, I mean, he, he showed so much
fucking fearlessness and defiance when he was going.
Anybody else would be like, fight, fight, fight.
I mean, like.
Anybody else was like, give me the car.
I'm giving out of here.
Give me out of here.
Yeah.
Right.
For sure.
Right.
For sure.
He was like, nah, it is, it is over unless they find a way to kill him, man.
And I really hope they don't.
I really fucking hope they don't because it's going to be utter chaos.
And I hope you have a passport to another country if that happens.
The insanity that we're having this conversation.
I'm the country that I grew up in.
Like, this is insane.
I don't remember people getting shot.
Reagan got shot, but this was a lone nut job, you know.
And he was also five feet away from his car.
Yeah.
This was like.
And you never saw him after that bullet went off.
They, they dog piled him and you never saw him after that.
Well, and you talk, and they talked to, you know, the thing is, he was left alive and,
and you, you knew right away what the issue was.
He was in fact away with Jody Foster.
He'd actually gone to other rallies.
It just happened to realize, oh, what?
Reagan's going to be here.
Oh, I'll go.
Maybe I'll get a shot at him and took a shot.
But, but there's, there's never been any, you know, XK Ultra.
What was it called?
MK Ultra.
MK Ultra.
You know, nobody's ever said anything, but this was just a lone nut job.
Anyways, this guy, uh, Danny Sheehan is a lawyer.
He, uh, he worked on the Watergate case and he worked on the Pentagon Papers case.
He worked on Iran Contra case.
Guy goes back, right?
He's been like all the most famous cases in the United States.
And, uh, he was explaining to me the whole backstory of how Kennedy got killed.
It's wild.
He was saying that when Nixon was running for president, he was running against Roosevelt.
And, um, Roosevelt dropped out and then Nixon thought he had a straight shot to win the presidency,
right?
No, he never, they never thought, he never thought for a second that Kennedy was going to beat him.
And he was winning in the poll.
Kennedy was losing in the polls until they did the,
until they did the thing with the blacks.
Yeah.
No, no, I was, I was saying that the, um, they did the debate and Nixon did,
because Nixon's was sweating.
He looked so, but he did so badly in the debate.
Oh, that was it.
Yeah.
Well, he starts sweating like he's, he keeps having to wipe it.
Kennedy, even though he maybe just held his own.
Yeah.
But, but Nixon looked so bad.
He's wiping his head because it was super hot, but he's also nervous.
Right.
So it was exasperated.
Yeah.
Kennedy's a good looking young guy, well spoken, like all like, you know,
you know what Nixon looked like, like he looks like a terror.
I mean, and they go through the debate and Kennedy just came off much, much more smooth.
Right.
So Nixon was the head of this thing called the 5412 committee,
which was part of the, uh, national intelligence.
And it was basically, he was like a part of this committee, the 5412 committee that was part of
covert ops for the CIA.
And after Roosevelt dropped, or not Roosevelt, after, um, Rockefeller dropped out,
everyone thought Nixon was going to be the next president.
Okay.
So Nixon wanted Castro whacked.
For some reason, he thought that if he could set up an assassination on Castro
to line up with his presidency, it'd be great.
So what he did was he contacted Howard Hughes, the airplane guy.
I know.
Yeah.
Who, right.
Right.
Yeah, Howard Hughes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, um, Howard Hughes had this huge connection to intelligence.
I mean, he was part of like recovering the Glomar Explorer, the Russian submarine,
all this crazy shit.
Oh yeah.
The U2 spy plane.
Yeah.
The dude.
Yeah, he did a ton, he had a ton of patents.
Yes.
So Howard Hughes went to these two mob guys, who I forget their names, who were in Vegas.
And they were like, Howard Hughes thought he'd get these mob guys to take out Castro
or set up a team to kill Castro.
The mob guys, they go to Chicago, meet with the other head of the,
forget the other mob guy was in Chicago.
They're meeting and they're saying, well, this is Santo Traficante territory, Cuba, right?
Right.
The Santo Traficante.
I think at that time he was in Tampa, but he was like the boss of like that area.
And they meet with Santos Traficante in the Fountain Blue Hotel in Miami.
And Santos Traficante is like, well, you know, I got to make sure that this is really in order.
They're like the president, Nixon, who's about to be the president, is wants this done.
Can you get this done for us?
He's like, well, if you can prove that he really, you know, right made this order.
And this is not you guys just doing this.
So they got a guy for the CIA employee to come down, represented Nixon to give
Traficante the green light.
So Traficante recruits these guys from this CIA operation, Operation 40, who were the
who were these anti-Castro Cubans who were conducting sabotage inside Cuba.
When Castro and Che and Raul were down there, you know, doing their thing.
And these Operation 40 guys, they picked a few of them.
I think it was 10 or 15 of them.
And they brought them to this ranch called Oaxaca Ranch.
And they were and another ranch that was in South Florida, like near the Everglades.
And they were training these guys in what were called triangular fire teams.
So they would set up in a triangular formation of three shooters
to take out a moving target.
And this was all in plans to kill Castro.
After training these guys, they obviously they went there, you know, you know, the
stories, they went down to Cuba to try to assassinate Castro.
They went twice.
It was a failed attempt both times to kill Castro.
And then later on, it was the same Cubans.
So those Cubans were the ones that they tried to use to kill Kennedy.
So when Kennedy, when they wanted to assassinate Kennedy, they figured out,
they found out like the best shooters that we know that hated Kennedy,
because of all the shit that Kennedy did after the Bay of Pigs and all that stuff,
were these anti-Castro Cubans.
They were great shooters.
They knew they could cover it up and they hated Kennedy.
So he was saying those were the guys who actually pulled the trigger in Dealey Plaza that killed
Kennedy. Later on, there's Watergate.
The guys that were caught in Watergate was Bernard Barker was one of them.
He was one of the anti-Castro Cubans.
Now, the way they were funding these guys at this ranch, this Oaxaca Ranch in Mexico
during the triangular fire team training was through a bank called the Banco Internationale.
And this bank is complicated, but they were skimming money off the mob casinos,
sending it to Meyer Landski's Bank in Miami.
And they were wiring it from Meyer Landski's Bank to the Bank Bank International in Mexico
to pay these CIA mercenaries to train them how to kill Castro,
which were eventually the same guys they used to kill the president, right?
So fast forward to Watergate.
One of the guys that was in the hotel that got caught had a bank note in his pocket,
had a bill, right? They traced the bill back to that same bank.
Now, there was an FBI guy who was trying to investigate that bank note,
find out where it came from. Somehow, the guy in Nixon's staff in the White House finds out
about this investigation, calls up Richard Helms in the CIA and another guy in the FBI says,
you need to meet with this guy, Mark Fent, or Mark something, I forget his name.
They said, you need to stop this FBI investigation into that bank account,
because if you find out what was going on with those Cubans and why we were training them down in
Mexico, you're going to peel off a scab and you're going to unleash a genie that we can't
put back in the bottle because they knew if they investigated that bank, they would find out that
those were the guys that they used to kill Kennedy. And Nixon knew if they found out
that those Cubans were the ones that did kill Kennedy, they would be able to trace those Cubans
back to Nixon and they would think Nixon was the one who tried to kill Kennedy, which he wasn't.
He would use those guys to kill Castro. So he stepped down to stop the investigation?
So no, there was a hold of the thing with the investigation. There was,
I forget the guy's name, the other FBI guy, there was a bunch of shit involved with Watergate.
But basically, the idea behind Watergate, the reason that this is what Danny Sheehan says,
the reason for Watergate was he wanted those guys to break in because
they were going, all of Howard Hughes, who was Nixon's biggest financial backer, biggest lobbyist
for Nixon, if they found out all of his stuff that was in that hotel, they would find out
about the shooters. So Nixon didn't want any connection to him hiring those assassins to
kill Castro because if they found out about that, they would find out that the same guys killed
Kennedy and they would make the connection from Nixon to Kennedy. Yeah, I understand.
They would assume that, which it wasn't true, but that was the reason for Watergate,
according to Danny Sheehan. It can crazy complicated, right? But it's an insane story.
Okay. I mean, I thought Watergate, they were just breaking into the Democratic Party's
headquarters just to try and plant bugs. Yeah, that's the story, right? But according to Danny,
it was way deeper than that. It was because they didn't want to find out about who really
killed the president. And Danny claims that there's still Cubans that are alive today,
anti-Castro guys who were part of that CIA operation 40, who actually were responsible for
killing Kennedy. So what happened with Nixon anyway? First, he ran against, he ran against
John F. Kennedy, he lost. Then Kennedy got killed and LBJ took over. LBJ stepped in.
Then LBJ, was he re-elected? I don't think so.
Or did he lose against? Did he lose against? Because then Nixon runs again and wins.
And wins, right? That's when Watergate happens.
Then he... Yeah, well, once he won. Yeah, who?
Yeah, because he was about to start running again. So he's gonna, he wants some inside
information on, I thought that's what, that's the historic version is, he wanted inside information.
Yeah, there's a lot of different theories on Watergate, but this was like the wildest one
that I've ever heard. And Danny Sheehan was a part of that whole investigation. So he would,
no, he, Danny actually interviewed that mob guy Traficante in Miami. And Traficante told him
that that's why those guys were breaking in.
What's next? Straight from the horse's mouth. It doesn't get
any crazier than that. Dude, another thing about Trump is ever since that debate with Biden,
I mean, that was a brutal moment too. That was like, I think that, I think that was the moment
after the, in that debate where he goes, I don't know what he just said. I don't think he knows
either. That was like, okay, this is done after that. He was actually way more reserved than I
thought he was. That's what I'm saying. He's been super reserved, super magnanimous since that
election, right? He hasn't been typical Trump. I think during his first, during the first,
you know, presidential run or whatever you want to call it, I think he learned a lot.
Like I think he, you know what I'm saying? I think he learned like, there's,
you just can't say some stuff, you know what I'm saying? Not that he's learned a ton, but he's
definitely, he's tapered back the rhetoric, not a huge amount, but let's say 20%, 30%.
Like he could have really been brutal to Biden, but he wasn't, but he doesn't have to be anymore.
Listen, I remember one time, one time I was evicting this guy and he was a, he was a
former Vietnam vet. We had bought a bunch of, we bought like 20, my wife at the time,
we bought like 20 units. And so there's this guy who's literally got a water hose hooked up.
And then when we were trying to show the apartments, he's hosing people down.
And when the other tenants would come around, he'd hose them down. Like he was just,
he was just a huge nuisance, right? And he was crazy. And so we just started evicting him.
Now he'd pay his rent, but his rent was nothing either. We wanted to raise the rent by two or
300 bucks. He'd been in there. He'd just been a pain in the ass. So we, when we finally get to,
and he did everything to stop it, he hired an attorney, they tried, we went to mediation and
every, you know, he's just lunatic. Keep going. He was a lunatic. Well, what ends up happening is
he, he ends up when we finally get to court, because the problem was he's paying his rent
into the court. You know what I'm saying? Like what a pain in the ass this guy, because we're not,
we're not evicting him for, we're not evicting him because he's not paying. He's paying. That's
the worst of it. He is paying, but he's such a nuisance. We want him gone. Right. He doesn't
have a lease anymore. His lease has expired. He just wouldn't leave, but he keeps paying.
So anyway, we're trying, we're trying to evict him. We end up getting into court. And when we
got into court, the judge comes up and he's like, okay, listen, there's this, they followed the
three day notice, they followed the, you know, the 10 day notice, they did this, they did this,
you've been served. Like, well, what is going on here? And let's say that the guy's name is like
Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson, no, wait, he says, okay, what's going on? And he looks at me, he goes,
Mr. Cox, he said, he said, what's going on here? Like, I'm going to let you talk first. And I went,
you know, your honor, I said, I think you'll have a better understanding if you let Mr.
Johnson explain. Okay. Now he's like, whatever, jackass. Like, he's like, all right, Mr. Johnson,
why don't you go ahead and explain? And he's like, your honor, I'm a Vietnam vet and these criminals,
they're all over the place. And I have to, I use my hose so that I don't shoot them and, and, and,
and they're everywhere. And the, and he just starts, he rants and raves for like five. And as he's
doing it, the judge is staring at him. And at some point he looks over at me and I go,
like that. And the judge goes, okay, Mr. Johnson, I think I understand what's going on here. He said,
I'm, and then he, what was that? He said, alarm for Kiryakov. Oh, oh. And then he got five minutes.
And then he goes, he ends up, the judge goes, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to allow the,
you know, blah, blah, blah, you've got 10 days to vacate or you'll be, you'll be, you know,
removed, blah, blah, blah. And it was over. That was it. It's over. Guy's still screaming when the
judge fucking hauls ass. You know, he walks out like they have like a side door, judge like,
bolts out the side door, the guy's still screaming, we just walk away. But it's like,
that's kind of like how I felt Trump was at the thing. He's like, I don't even have
to say anything. Go ahead and you answer this question. Like the more you answer these questions,
Biden, the more people understand, you can't let this continue. I mean, even not even just during
the debate though, but like even after the assassination attempt, like he wasn't on Twitter
talking all this shit, like calling out the radical, you know, he hasn't been as divisive as he was
when he was first president. He's been very, very reserved. And even like his statement afterwards,
like saying, like giving condolences for the people that were killed and all this stuff, like
it's interesting. And like when he talks on Thursday, it's going to be interesting because
there's reports that he rewrote his script for his speech, right? Right. So I'm wondering if he's
going to take the opportunity to come out and unite the country and not be typical so overwhelmingly
polarized. There's nothing he can say. People don't want, they just don't want to believe,
they don't, has he won over some more people? Probably, you know, I mean, but the people that
are dug in, they're lunatics. Like the people that are, they're just not, there's no reasoning with
them. He's a racist, he calls for this, he calls for that, like when, show me the film,
when did he say this, when did he say that? He doesn't need the polarizing decisive,
a divisive messaging anymore though. He doesn't need that. It's done. He's already won.
My point is, Ken, what I'm saying is that those people that have already decided to vote for
Biden, they're voting for him no matter what Trump says. Right. It doesn't matter. For sure.
For sure. If Trump, if Biden came out and started saying just horrific things,
they wouldn't change their vote. No. Nothing would change it. No.
So there's nothing for him to do. The peace God is base. It's more than 50%. It's,
it's going to be a landslide in the electoral vote. And he's like, I've got it. I just have to not
say anything overwhelmingly stupid at this point, which I'm sure his handlers, that's an issue.
You know, he's always going to sit trying to say something crazy. So they're probably like,
just stick with what the teleprompter says. That's it. It's all you have to do.
You walk into the White House. What do you think he's going to do to get rid of the Ukraine situation?
What do I think he's going to do? Because you know on day one, he's going to want to try and
nip that in the butt. I mean, I hope he does. I hope, I mean, I look, I don't know
shit about fuck, about how that works or like who's in charge of the Ukraine war. I know it goes
deep into like the EU is involved with this and the globalists, as Alex would say. And
there's a lot of other countries that are really invested in this war. I don't
know how he would pull out of that. I just, I think it might be somewhat easy.
But there's a lot of, there's a lot of pieces on that chess board to move to make that happen.
But just the threat of him saying he's going to do it has people freaking the fuck out. I mean,
let's think that's all you have to do is freak Putin out. You just have to get Putin to say,
okay, oh, you have just to kind of go in there and say, look, you keep what you already have.
That's it. What you got, you got, that's it. And then or we're going to send in US troops.
Yeah, I mean, just to push you out diplomacy, man, it's just like, I think he, I mean, that's the
one thing that he did when one of the good things that he did. John, what's up, man? Thanks for coming
on and and talking to us on this, on this little, we're doing this little podcast, just trying to
like react to what's been going on with the whole Trump thing and how it happened. I know you have
your show that you do every day and you guys have been covering this. What is your view on
what happened on, I think it was Saturday with Trump and everything that's coming out? What is
your view on everything? You know, I think the, I think the easiest explanation is probably the
best explanation at this early stage. And that is that this was a colossal historic screw up
on the part of the US Secret Service. You know, let me add a little detail too. I grew up
walking distance from this, this location, the Butler County fairgrounds and farm show.
Never missed a year when I was a kid. There's nothing to do in western Pennsylvania.
And so we would go to the farm and the farm show and the fair and it's a big deal because
politicians always come and they have these events. So it's not like this is the first time
anybody's ever come to Butler County. You know, this is something that they should have been used to.
Now, getting to the screw up, here you've got a guy that's not just a presidential candidate,
presidential nominee, but he's a former president of the United States. And the only job of the
Secret Service is to protect the candidate. That's it. And what they're telling us today
is that they essentially outsourced coverage of these external buildings to the Butler County
Pennsylvania Sheriff's Department. You know, when I first heard that, I wanted to laugh because this
is literally not something you would ever do if you are the Secret Service. And going back just a
little bit, you know, there were two major assassinations in 1968, of course. In 1972,
George Wallace was shot and wounded in Laurel, Maryland. He was running for president on the
American Party ticket. In 1981, Donald Trump, Ronald Reagan was shot and grievously wounded.
So after each one of these shootings, there was a top to bottom review of the Secret Services
procedures. This is the term that they're using yesterday and today, a top to bottom review.
So we've gone from 1981 until Saturday with no credible attempts against the life of a candidate.
So why now? How was a 20-year-old able to climb to the roof of a building within direct line of
sight of the former president of the United States? Stay there for quite some time. Be confronted
at least twice that we know of and still get a shot off. That doesn't make any kind of sense
to me at all. Major, major screw up. And not only that, but after the Secret Service agents jumped
on top of him and dog piled him, they let him stand up with his shoulder to head fully exposed
around those guys as he barged through the Secret Service agents to show his strength and pump his
fists to his audience. If there was a second shooter, if this was anything remotely similar
to the JFK setup, if it was a triangular hit team or multiple shooters or whatever,
that was a turkey shot, an easy shot for a second shooter to get off even after that first guy was
neutralized. You are exactly right. You are 100 percent right. And let me add something to that,
too. I happen to be with my son, my 20-year-old son, when we heard news of this attempt on Donald
Trump. And he said to me, you know, he said, about four weeks ago, I went to a NASCAR event
in North Carolina, right? 50,000 people in this, whatever it is, track. And Donald Trump was the
guest of honor. So they have him stand on this balcony on top of the press area where the
press is gathered to overlook the track. He's the only person wearing a red hat.
He was standing out there in front of everybody. There was no security to get in. You didn't have
to go through any metal detector or anything. And he turned to his girlfriend, my son did,
and said, my God, if somebody wanted to kill Trump, he said, this would be like fishing a barrel.
So apparently, this is a bigger problem than just somebody screwed up on Saturday.
This is a problem with the actual standard operating procedure of protecting a candidate
that the Secret Service has implemented. Now, you were in CIA for how many years?
15. 15 years. And you were overseas in war zones with working with armed military,
taking out people like Abu Zubaydah, capturing him. And I'm sure you've been in situations
similar to this where there has to be like a perimeter set up or like people that have to
be on watch. How does this typically work? Do you know anything about like how the
perimeters have to be set up? How wide they have to be? Yeah, actually. And I had this conversation
today with a friend of mine who happens to be a former FBI agent as well. And we were in agreement
that you have to sweep literally every building. You set up a perimeter around or that includes
every building with line of sight to the candidate. And you keep sweeping it. Now,
if there are buildings, multiple buildings, you have somebody on literally every single roof,
just so that something like this doesn't happen. And as long ago as 10 years,
we were using drones to supplement the human surveillance at places like Barbara
Marybase. Barbara, you've got a prison in the center and then there's a perimeter around that.
And then you've got the living area and you've got the working area and there's a perimeter around
that. Then you've got guys outside the fence walking that perimeter. But then you've got
two, three, four drones overhead and somebody inside monitoring the drone coverage. Again,
this is a former president of the United States and there was no drone coverage.
Like we're supposed to just accept that the Butler County, Pennsylvania Sheriff's Department
was responsible for this? No, that's just not real life. And is it possible that the Sheriff's
Department, I mean, there's footage of the guy climbing on the roof with cops walking around
the building looking at him. And then there was obviously, like everyone's aware of the report
of the cop actually climbing up there and then like falling off after the guy points his rifle
at him. Is there any sort of radio frequency between these cops and the Secret Service?
Like you would imagine that the cop would be able just to like turn on his radio right then
there and say, Shooter. In most cases, no. So what in most cases, because this is just like
not just the even a one day event. It's a one hour event or three hour event altogether.
The cop would radio back to his dispatch. Dispatch would be liaising with Secret Service and then
the Secret Service dispatcher would radio Secret Service. So you're going to lose, you know,
15 seconds maybe, which is plenty of time to kill somebody. But that's how haphazardly this was
arranged. And you know, it's easy to fall into this rut. Well, you know, nobody's
taken a shot at a presidential candidate since 1981. They're not going to do it in Butler,
Pennsylvania. Let's just get through this one hour. And then we wrap it all up and we go on to Milwaukee.
I guarantee you that's what these guys were thinking. And the sniper, there's reports that the
sniper saw the guy on the roof like five minutes before he took the shots and they were looking
at him the whole time. And then he like, he was radioing his superior about it. They knew he was
there and they said, don't take the shot. And I assume I don't know what it's like to be a guy
who sits on the roof with a sniper for three hours. I can't imagine how boring that must be,
especially when you're doing it, like on multiple events, like throughout, you know, whatever the
month. But like, I imagine there's got to be some sort of fear of maybe like, maybe that guy is like
a SWAT guy I don't know about on that roof. I don't want to take out like an innocent cop
or something like that. What do you make of that guy being aware of the guy being there and not
being able to take the shot and tell there was eight shots fired? Well, your assumption is exactly
correct. So this time, can you imagine, you're a sniper for the Secret Service, you go through a 30
year career and never ever fire the weapon. I can't fucking imagine to. That's what we were saying.
That's crazy. But yeah, your thought is a good one. The sniper has to be thinking,
is that one of the cops? Is that a Pennsylvania State trooper? Is it, you know, the janitor for
that building who wandered onto the roof to get a better look? Should I shoot him? If I shoot him,
I'm trained to kill him. So maybe I shouldn't shoot him. I should probably radio in and say,
hey, there's this guy. Now, as it turned out, rather than once shots were being fired, rather than
radio back to dispatch and ask for permission to shoot, he just shot, which, you know, thank God,
he did. Right. But the system is such that it's not efficient enough to save a candidate who's
under fire. It's just not. Can I ask a question? Yeah, I got my friend, Matt Cox is here. He wants
to ask you a question as well. Does he think that it was just incompetence? Or does he think that
there's a possibility that it was done specifically for a reason, like to leave open, you know,
I don't know, an opportunity for someone to take a shot. Sure. Lots and lots of people are talking
about that today and yesterday. And my gut response is no, or likely, likely no, only because,
only because an operation like that would have so many moving parts that it would be virtually
impossible to carry out. And I mentioned this today, this FBI friend of mine. And she said,
you know, she's given us a lot of thought as well. And if they were going to do that,
they wouldn't have outsourced it to a to a 20 year old, you know, just some local Yoko from,
from Bethel Park, Pennsylvania. And they wouldn't have done it in front of thousands of people.
It's just not the way they would carry out an operation like that.
I know that they have in the past. Right. That's not what I'm saying. But in the event that there
was an operation, they would miss. Number one, they wouldn't, if it was the military or any kind
of US, any kind of US organization, Trump would not be here right now. That's right.
Is he? So what you're saying is if it's a Patsy situation where the kid is just a Patsy, at the
very least, they're going to have snipers to take him out, to take out Trump. You're exactly right.
And there would have to be secondary and tertiary levels just in case the kid missed or the kid
needed to be taken out. Right. You remember, you remember seeing the video of Lee Harvey Oswald
saying, I'm just a Patsy before he was killed. You know, that's, that's something I think we're
always going to have to be thinking about situations like this. Now, what do you make of,
I mean, I've watched, I've been watching as well as everyone probably has been watching.
I've been watching hundreds and hundreds of people's takes on what happened over the last two days.
And it seems like an overwhelming majority of people who have been looking at this and people
talking heads on YouTube that have been, you know, doing a play by play. The consensus is that it was
the United States that was behind this or the quote, deep state was behind this because
their evidence is like, look at the last four years of how they tried to take out Trump with
all these other things with like, you know, there was Russia gate, there was the, the trial,
the show trial in New York, then there was what else was the document, the document case. Yeah,
there's so many things that they've tried to do to take him out of the race. And then now you
have an assassination. Well, isn't that convenient? Right. Like that seems to be the overwhelming
consensus. And I don't know because I wasn't alive back when Reagan, they tried to take out Reagan,
but was, was it like that?
Everybody tried to take out Reagan. Who was the guy that was shot? It was Reagan, right?
Yeah, Reagan was shot by John Hinkley. Right. So,
right, exactly. So when Reagan was shot, was that, was America's talking about it the way
they're talking about it right now? Like, was America thinking like, Oh my God, this was America
that took him out of the deep state or whatever? No, no, no, no.
The whole country pulled together. Reagan's popularity went into the 90s. The whole country
came together. Right. It's so different. You know, you and I, you and I, Danny, have talked about
this in the past. I've been in Washington for 42 years. I came here, I moved here the week after
I turned 18 to go to college. And it has become such an ugly, mean-spirited city. It's, I'm not
able to compare it to any other place that I've, that I've been in the world. And so that's why
we have these, these rumors. That's why we have, you know, rational people, like people I respect,
for example, going on Twitter or going on Facebook and saying, it was the deep state. Well, like I
said, there, there are so many moving parts to a conspiracy that if it was the deep state,
they would have gotten them ages ago. They wouldn't have to have, you know,
trumped up federal and state charges and, and, you know, found this 20-year-old idiot to climb
onto a roof. They would have gotten him. They would have gotten him somehow. Yeah, I've got a
buddy who's a, who's a retired colonel in the army and in kind of a prominent Republican fundraiser
now. And he told me over the weekend that he went to, he went to Mar-a-Lago about six months ago
for, for a fundraising event. And he and his wife are, not only have concealed carry permits,
but they're concealed carry instructors. And so he pulls up to Mar-a-Lago and the secret
service stops them at the gate and, hey, folks, how are you tonight? Do you have any weapons in the
car? And he said, actually, we do. We've got two weapons in the trunk, but they're both secured.
The secret service guy says, I'm sorry, you can't bring them onto the ground. He said, fine.
He let his wife out, drove back to the hotel, locked up his guns in the safe,
and then went back to Mar-a-Lago 15, 20 minutes later. But he said, the point is,
nobody ever searched the car. And if, if he had said, no, I don't have any guns,
he could have walked right into that ballroom fully armed. What is the, what is the secret
service thinking? This is a systemic problem here. It's not just what happened Saturday.
It's through the entire system of protection that the secret service is supposed to be
implementing. Right. What, what, how much credit do you give to the idea that it could have been a
foreign adversary, like China, Russia, or Iran? Right. Well, that's something that the FBI
mentioned right off the bat. That it's something that they have to consider.
And how, how, how possible or how probable do you think something like that would be?
Unlikely, you know, when, when John Kennedy was killed, the Soviets came to us
within minutes. And at the CIA, you know, we keep all these historical documents. You can,
as a junior analyst, you can just go through them and get an idea of what it was like back then.
They came to us within minutes of Kennedy being killed and saying, we swear to God, it wasn't us.
We swear it wasn't us. The Chinese did the same thing. And then the Cubans asked the Mexicans
to tell us, look, it wasn't us. Right. So that, that, I mean, I mean, that's, that,
that's a trigger for World War Three. Absolutely. If you try to take out a candidate for President
of the United States. Yeah, absolutely. It's not worth the blowback potential. Once again,
you're not going to use the 20 year old. It's the same thing. It's there. It's going to be,
even if they're going to do it, it's going to be a successful operation. They're not going to
leave anything to chance. Yeah. They're not going to put it in the hands of a 20 year old kid.
So it's going to be from 145 yards, either it's going to be from 500 yards or 800 yards.
Oh, really? Any idea where it came from? If you're going to, if you're going to use a professional
sniper to do it, first of all, he's not going to use an AR-15 with, you know, by all accounts,
you know, 22 or 556 or whatever, whatever, you know, rounds, right? He was shooting.
If you have a professional sniper, he's going to be so far away, you can't even see him
and he's not going to miss. Yeah. It's crazy, man. What do you think would have happened
if that bullet would have hit him and taken him out? What do you think the reaction would have
been? There's, I heard it take, my buddy Julian was saying that if the bullet would have hit
him, it would have been like a Franz Ferdinand moment. The bullet that took out Franz Ferdinand
to start a World War I. He said, he said, he said civil war doesn't even do it justice.
It would be far bigger. You know, I mentioned a few minutes ago, Danny, so many of my friends,
like a lot of high school friends, for example, who still live in the area in Western Pennsylvania,
these are people I've liked and respected all my life. We may not agree on politics,
but we like and respect each other. We're in each other's weddings, we visit each other,
you get the idea. And that's exactly what they were talking about. They would have
armed themselves within moments and they would have taken to the streets. I think
that's exactly what would have happened. Yeah. This was as close a call as we could have had.
So, like, I guess the idea, like, I understand what you're saying. If this was an intelligence
operation, it would have been successful. It would not have been so sloppy. But like,
what about the idea that the kid could have been MKUltra or like they like like some sort of foreign
agent could have used him and coerced him and subverted him into talking him up and saying,
oh, this might be a good idea. Even if it was a failure, maybe it could at the very least incite
chaos in the US and disrupt the system a bit and disrupt the populace. You know, at the very best,
maybe the freaking the crazy kid gets lucky and hits his shot. But you're saying you're
essentially saying that no, that's too sloppy. Even if it was just one kid that they tried to
brainwash or subvert somehow, they would have had a backup option in place. Yeah, they would have.
And, you know, not every country is capable of carrying out an operation like that, especially
if you're talking about MKUltra and mind control and hypnosis and all that stuff.
You're talking about three, four, five countries that are able to do it. Russia, China, Israel,
North Korea. That's probably about it. Right. We know wasn't Israel. Israel just gave him 100
billion or 100 million dollars, right? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, exactly right. 150 million,
something like that. That was Israel. But yeah, again, the blowback potential is such that, you
know, I mean, let's say the Chinese did this. Right. And we were able to develop information
confirming that the Chinese had done it. I mean, you're talking about a nuclear exchange being the
next step. If it had been successful. And we had bought the Chinese. Matt has a question.
First off, I think it was just a 20 year old. But yeah, you know, for the content sake,
assuming it, assuming that it was, I don't know, whatever you want to call it, deep state or,
you know, an attempted assassination that failed. And, you know, do if it was an attempted
assassination that failed, in your opinion, do they just take their ball and go home?
Or do they, and just say, hey, Trump's going to win it. We messed up. Or do they try again?
Very good. And I agree with you. I think it was the kid. But if it were an operation, yes,
you pick up the ball and you go home. Let's use this. Really?
Bay of Pigs. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Once, once you've blown it, that's it. It's done. It's over. You had
your shot. It was one shot. It's over. That and then you deal with a blowback. You know,
that's why you got to get it right the first time. Look at the, look at the Bay of Pigs,
for example. The only reason that the Bay of Pigs failed was because John Kennedy made a strategic
policy decision not to provide air cover. Right. So we didn't say, all right, everybody,
let's try it again in two weeks. And this time we use air cover. No, we just, we took our lumps
and went home. And that's the way, that's the way it happens. Okay, finally, maybe you can educate
us numbskulls on who is this guy who's the new vice president? And, and what do you make,
what do you make of that? Can you give us some sort of like educated opinion on,
on this guy and what this means? This is actually kind of a bold, a bold choice.
So JD Vance is, he's, he was famous well before he ever entered politics. He's very young. He's
39 years old. He's a self-made billionaire from a hedge fund that he created on Wall Street. But
this guy grew up in abject poverty in the Appalachia area of southern Ohio. And he was
raised by his grandmother. His mother was a heroin and meth addict and was never a major part of
his life. And so his grandmother stressed education, education, education. And he was a smart kid.
And so he won scholarships. He went to school. He ended up going to Yale and then made it big,
big on, on Wall Street. He wrote a book called Hillbilly Elegy talking about coming out of this
abject poverty, but not as a lefty. He, he picked him up himself up by his bootstraps and he did
it through hard work, not because welfare paid for this or welfare paid for that. That's what
Hillbilly Elegy was about. It became a quite a popular and successful movie. And then he decided
to go into politics. The interesting thing to me is that he was an anti-Trump Republican for a long
time. I saw them. He wrote quite a powerful op-ed saying that Donald Trump was an idiot and a monster.
And then we learned from Donald Trump Jr. just a week ago that the choice probably wouldn't be
J.D. Vance because Donald Sr. has, has this visceral dislike of facial hair. And he had mentioned
to family members, he couldn't stand the thought of looking at J.D. Vance every day with a beard and
mustache. Oh my God. That's insane. He's rich. He's self-made. He's a great campaigner. And
like I say, I think this was actually a pretty bold choice. Interesting. Well, awesome. I can't
thank you enough, John. I appreciate all your insight and for answering our questions here today.
It really gives us some credibility here for doing this podcast. We don't have any. We have no
business talking about this kind of shit by ourselves. So thanks again, man. I really appreciate
it. Yes, sir. I love you, man. And I'll, I'll talk to you very soon. Bye-bye. Looking forward to it.
See you, John. I tell you what makes me feel better is how,
how close everything we said was to what he's kind of saying. You know what I'm saying? It was pretty,
not perfect, but pretty close. Yeah. Except for the me saying like they're, they're not going to
take their ball and going home. He's like, oh no, no, no, take your ball and go home. It's over.
Yeah. Everyone else is, yeah. That's what Jones was saying, the opposite. He goes, they're going
to have to dig in. Yeah. Interesting. Well, but the other stuff we will see. Yeah. The other stuff
was spot on. I thought we gave some, oh wow. Look at that. We can see ourselves.
Look at you, Matt Cox. You look, you look like that. I need a fucking haircut, dude.
Are you kidding me? Look when I smile. Look when I smile. Let me see. Let's see. Let's see Matt smile.
Look, look at that beautiful smile. Look at, this is in. Oh, the crow's feet, Matt. You need to get
some Biden Botox, dude. I'm not doing it. I don't want to do it. It's embarrassing enough. I got the
hair plug. Look how great your hairline is though. It does look amazing. Your hairline looks fantastic.
But, oh man, I need to lose some weight. Oh, did I tell you this? Oh God, if I've been hunching over,
my God, Steven, you couldn't say something. I'm getting a haircut tomorrow. I look terrible. At least
if my wife was here, she'd be holding her shoulders back like, hold your shoulders back.
You want to hear something funny? Yeah. Is I'm supposed to be going on a fresh and fit. Oh,
yeah. You told me that tomorrow, right? No, no, no, no. This is like the 22nd. I'm sure they record.
I'm sure they record them and put them out. But, like, I've talked to them or their business,
their producer, whatever, back and forth on the email and, you know, and here's the thing. Like,
I'm flying in there and then I'm flying to Dallas because I have a, like a speaking, not speaking
thing, but I have like a shoot that I have to do and then I'm flying back like, I'm like boom, boom,
boom. Wow, dude. I feel like a big shot. You are a big shot. My God, that's insane. But,
I still haven't got the address. I mean, I'll get the address, but other than that. It's confirmed
though. It's in Miami, right? They said it was confirmed, bro. Like, I don't know. You know, it's
yeah. No, it's in Miami. It's on Brickle. By the way, we haven't even talked about this yet.
We haven't talked about this since you did it. You were, you did the longest podcast ever recorded
on Lex Friedman's channel. No, we did talk about it. Didn't we? Yeah, but that podcast never aired.
Oh, you put it on Patreon. That's how you get the Patreon people. That's right. Exclusive.
You use Matt as a, as a little carrot for the patrons. What a great fucking, what a great day
for you, man. The Patreon. That was pretty cool. Pretty cool. Yeah. Anyways. I mean, Patreon,
I'm sorry. The Lex Friedman thing. What is this? Trump's shooter was. Oh yeah, dude. This is so,
oh yeah. So demolition ranch. These guys. He had the shirt. He had the shirt. Yeah, man. I know
these guys and I was just talking to him last week and then I saw, I just saw today that dude was
wearing a demolition ranch shirt. Yeah. And now this guy is getting a, I don't know if he's getting
a lot of shit. I don't know. But I mean, he said he's been getting a lot of like media questioning
him about it. So what? So this is, is he made a statement on them wearing his shirt? Let's see
what he said. It's horrible. Oh, the audio is terrible. Why is this so fucking bad? Jesus Christ.
Hold on, Julian. His audio? Oh, Julian Dory finger on the pulse. Give us the update.
Nobody's got more inside info on the Trump assassination than Julian mother fucking Dory.
He's already done a hundred podcasts on this thing. He's been up for three days straight,
just got off a live stream with Jim Diorio special agent, the most underrated podcaster on YouTube.
Yes. Julian, what's happening? We're on air, baby. We're on air. Holy shit. We're on air.
We're doing it live. What's happening, dude? What's Jimmy D say about this?
Jimmy D just dropped balls of fiery flames for two hours on a podcast while I was in production
hell. So I'm going to listen to it back and see what he said, but it sounded really smart.
Yeah. We were watching it. Has he lost weight? Oh, yeah. He's lost a lot of weight, dude.
He looks way thinner. He looks beautiful. Jim, Jim, two point. Oh, it's a real thing.
He's a real thing. But yeah, as far as what, what, what we're hearing that any inside info,
so to speak, wink, wink that I have is not go to market. It's, it's off the record stuff.
But let's just say there is, there are some very eye-opening mistakes that occurred behind the
scenes. And like I was saying on the live I did last night, myself, when I talked to all these
different pipe hitters, two or one pipe hitters, I love that fucking word. I'm going to start using
that pipe hitters. That's fucking such a good word. Once, once they'll come stock, like started
using that, like, you know, they were all suck pipe hitters. I'm like, I'm going to use fucking
pipe hitters. Yeah. That can go two ways though. Yeah. Well, unless he was cracking up the first
time he used it on air, cause, and I had to turn to him and say that doesn't mean what he
say it means, but, but they, there are some eye-opening things, some serious concerns,
definitely some security concerns, moving forward that, you know, some of these guys,
and, and I know Jim was really pounding the table on this, you know, that there may very well be
some private security to help supplement what's going on here because the, you know, the, just
the lack of preparation and the perimeter that, that we saw was insane. But I had a really good
call with, with Remy Adelaide today and who's 12-year Navy SEAL and then all kinds of badass
shit around the world. And he, he has heard some things and, and seen some things that,
that are really concerning. And, you know, I, I think everyone's on the same page. Yeah. They
want to make sure there's no violence of any sort that occurs against either of these candidates
or anyone associated with them for the next 100 days, especially. Yeah. So that we can just calm
the fuck down as a country. Check out this hot take. We just had karaoke piped in through Skype
and he was saying that, uh, if it was, he doesn't believe this was a deep state assassination
attempt. He believed it was just a lone 20 year old psycho. He was saying that if it was a deep
state operation or any kind of government agency that was, that was doing this, he said, if they
failed on the first attempt, they will not try again. They'll take their ball and go home just
like the Bay of Pigs. I agree. I think, I think John's spot on about that. You, like you had your
shot. If that's the case, I don't know, but if, if that's the case and that's what some people are
saying, well, you had your shot and you missed because now everyone's awake to it. Yeah. Everyone's
like, oh, shit. Like, like, you know, the number of people who were inserting a quarter into the
Alex Jones was right again. That's a big fucking jar right now. Yeah. It's a big fucking jar.
A lot of stuff Alex Jones does and says, but I'm one of these guys like, yo, when, when people
are right, I'm going to shout that from the rooftops. And Alex Jones was absolutely 150% right
on this issue. If there's any of rares, they're going to come after Trump and try to take him out,
kill him. Deep state government is coming after him. And, and like, globalists, you know, whether
or not, you know, it was actually who he thinks it was, that's up for debate. But nonetheless,
you know, they, we watch, we watch the guy come legitimately at a minimum of two inches from
being the next transferred in it. Yeah. Yeah. I love that, bro. I used your line three or four
times during this podcast with Matt, but I, I accredited you every time. Oh, thank you brother.
You're welcome. I appreciate that. I always, always credit your show too. We love it. Anyone listening,
go watch the Julian Dory live stream that he did 35 minute fucking rant, no camera switching,
straight from the fucking top, right up the top of his head, no notes, just freestyle 38 minutes
of fire on this whole thing. And it was beautiful. It was gorgeous. And I mean, I don't think that
I've heard a better take than from what you said. It seems like, it seems like everyone's
watched your video and then just kind of like went, you know, ripped off that and, and went from
everything that, you know, all the thoughts that you had and all the perspectives that you had,
you called all of your contacts, your military contacts and your, you know, FBI people that
you've had on your show and got all their opinions and condensed it into one very
unique perspective. And it was fucking great, dude. Yeah, I appreciate that a lot man.
Danny called me. Came out okay. I just, I just called Matt Cox and said, Hey, we got to go do a podcast.
Because me and Matt, just me and Matt Cox just watch a bunch of TikToks and then
develop an opinion off that.
Oh God. All right, bro. Well, we're about to wrap up my, my phone's on like 2%,
but I'll hit you up in a little bit later.
All right. I think I figured out the audio.
Oh, we did. All right. Here we go. Demolition Ranch guy responding to the shirt.
Wow. 1.4 million views in four hours.
Can't imagine. So as a lot of you guys know, and we were shocked and confused to find this out,
the shooter who tried to assassinate Trump was wearing merch from my channel, wearing a
Demolition Ranch t-shirt. And that sucked to see that. Yeah, that was, that was rough.
So this, this t-shirt, we also own a t-shirt company.
Bunker. Based out of this hometown right here. And my friends work there and we,
we make these shirts, we print them here in Texas and ship them all over the world.
I've seen my shirts in every continent. I got a picture like two weeks ago of a guy
wearing my shirt in Antarctica. And so we don't vet the people who buy our shirts,
obviously. It'd be impossible to, just like Nike doesn't vet who buys their shoes.
I wish I could. I would love to keep people like that from buying, wearing, being associated with
that article of clothing. Like I wish, I wish he couldn't get a shirt, but it happened. And
I think the difference in, you know, a gunman wearing a pair of Nike shoes
and a gunman wearing my t-shirt is this brand is much more personal to me than
Nike is to its executives. And so to see my name next to the shooter's name,
oh, it sucks. And I wish, I wish we could keep that from happening. So no matter what side you're
on politically, none of us want violence. This channel was never meant to incite violence or hate.
It never has, it isn't, and it never will be a channel that does that. I don't want any violence
or hate anywhere around me. I have a wife and little kids. I want them to be safe and secure
forever. And the videos I put out, I want to make sure that is the same for everyone who watches
my videos, that they aren't in any more danger because of my videos, of course. And I know you
guys know that. I have 11 million subscribers who have been watching me for over 10 years and know
that I am not that kind of person. This is mostly for the people who are just tuning in to see
if I am a guy that is trying to make people do stuff like that. So I am not, obviously I don't
have to explain that to you guys who know me, but I feel like I might need to say that for those who
don't. It's crazy. That's an unfortunate situation. The guy was just trying to look like a Trump
supporter and wearing like a American shirt. There's probably guns on the shirt or whatever. He was
trying to blend in. And unfortunately, he picked a fucking demolition ranch shirt. I don't think
anyone's blamed that, blamed that guy. You can't, you can't blame him. No, but it sucks for the guy,
though. Well, because people are going to, but the people that are reaching out are just idiots.
Of course. Yeah, the people that are reaching out to him. It's just news media. People trying to
make a story out of nothing. It's just, yeah, they're probably like mainstream news media type
people trying to make a story out of this shit and get clicks. I forget. What was the guy,
what was the chick's name that was on? I forget the guy's name. He's got kind of a conservative show
and she goes on there and she's like, why do you think that some neo-nazi or something
subscribed to your channel and he's like, are you joking? Like, what are you talking about?
Like, you know what I'm saying? People are so out of touch, man. How does that have anything to
do with me? It's crazy, man. Every, you know, the majority of like the mainstream media,
the shit you see on television or the shit that you see being written about in like the
mainstream publications like New York Times and Washington Post or all this, these are all opinions
and pieces that are written by people who live in fucking New York and Los Angeles.
Right? Right. That's the consensus of that. That's like, you know what's happening when
it's all coming from those places and they think that their opinions are more important than the
people living in the rural parts of America. Right. Oh yeah, because just like they say,
all Trump supporters are stupid, stupid, poor white people. Right. Exactly.
Like, I mean, I have a college education. Right. And I think people are figuring that out too.
And like we were talking about earlier with the whole Civil War thing,
like California, like I think that guy made that video about Civil War and like California would
be against Texas and they would cut off California. I don't know. I think California, I mean,
it's obviously it's a blue state, but those are like condensed into like the cities of LA and
San Francisco. But from my experience, the majority of people that I know from California,
they're like either right wing or they're like closet conservatives. Like the people that are
closet conservatives, I know that. It's like that weird little bubble of LA where it's like,
you have to be liberal to be able to fit into that industry and to keep your job and to keep
it in work, you know? Well, you have to understand that the he's basing it on the fact that like,
hey, like the whole state, like the state, the government, the state government is at war,
you know what I'm saying? So if you're a farmer in California, you're saying I disagree with that
doesn't mean that the the National Guard isn't going, the California National Guard isn't going
to go to war. You know, they're saying that, hey, the people in charge of that state's national
in charge, National Guard, yeah, are going to go after like that has nothing to do with like
that's just always going to be the population. Yeah, doesn't matter as much. Yeah, there's tons
of people that are going to be, you know, that are going to be caught within the state saying,
I disagree with what Florida is doing, but I'm trapped within Florida. And there's,
there's a civil war. Do I up my uproot my entire family and try and move to a blue state right
now or does it just hunker down? Right. So, but that's what his, if you watch that video,
it goes so great. It was, it really, you can watch on the way home. I think it's like 45 minutes,
30 minutes. I gotta fucking watch it. You'd be super, I think we actually, you reached out to
him. I tried to reach out to this guy. I'm gonna try to get him on here too. We tried to get Tyler
to reach out to him. Tyler can't get in town. Really? Yeah. And Tyler's, you know, tenacious.
Dude's a fucking ghost. Did you see it? By the way, did you see the video of fucking Jack Black?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I didn't, I, I, Jack Black was like saying, find a better shooter,
don't miss next time. Yeah, I, yeah, I mean, I, like I could barely hear what he was saying,
but I've read the comment, the comments that were basically, that's what he was saying. It was just
like, you know, the, here's a problem when you surround yourself with yes men, you know,
you start to think that everything you say is clever and funny and that everybody agrees with you.
Yeah. That's why these people, when they go on like Fox news or CNN or they go to these panels
and they start spouting their, you know, their propaganda and when people push back, they're
like shocked. Of course they're shocked. Right. I have a, I have a group of 20 people that I
surround myself with that I talk to nearly every day and they tell me I'm everything I say is
wonderful. They never push back. So the moment they are pushed back, they immediately typically
crumble or they start going, you know, they get upset and they start calling people names or they,
you know, that's, that's Jack Black. I'm sure he surrounds himself with a bunch of people that
say he's just wonderful. Everything he says is hilarious and everything they agree with,
everything he says. And then he says it in the wrong form and it's like, oh wow, that didn't,
that's not coming off well. Yeah. It was Kyle Glass, not Jack Black. Kyle is his partner in
Tenacious D. Oh, okay. Oh. Kyle is the, this guy. That's that guy. Yeah. Okay. Jack Black,
wasn't Jack Black just recently at some like political convention? They hired him. They hired
him at a super left. They hired him at like one of those, one of those conventions and he was like,
he got up basically talking about how great Biden was and how fucking Trump was Hitler.
Yeah. These people say these things. Who's the other guy? De Niro? Oh yeah, De Niro. De Niro.
What a meltdown that was. Like what a colossal fuck up. Like it's the same thing. You surrounded
yourself with all these people that think you're wonderful and then you say, hey, I'm going to go
and I'm going to hold a press conference and I'm going to do this and say this and then it backfires
on you. You know. Oh, this is video. Is that what this is? I don't know. Come on. Is it this thing?
What does he say? Turn the volume up. Hit the little volume button at the bottom left of the
screen. Only the city, but the country and eventually he could destroy the world.
But we vowed we would not allow terrorists.
I owe the city a lot. You hear the people? What are they saying? That's why it's so weird
that Donald Trump is just across the street because he doesn't belong in my city.
I don't know where he belongs, but he surely doesn't belong here.
We New Yorkers used to tolerate him when he was just another grubby real estate hustler
masquerading as a big shot. It's the same thing. You know, whenever most of these guys come up,
like they never have anything of substance to say. It's always like he's Hitler. He's a racist.
He's a clown. He's a liar. Give me some examples, bro.
Yeah. Well, that's the thing. It's like it's a weird psychological thing where they can use
Hollywood to propagandize politics. Like if we can get a bunch of famous actors that make a lot
of money and that everyone sees on movies all the time to say something, then people are going to
fall in line because if these people think this, then we should think this. Since when is the prerequisite
to be an actor, to be a fucking thinker or to be like some political expert or like a foreign policy
expert? Your jobs pretend to be other people. Exactly. That's what their job is. Exactly.
That's exactly what it is to pretend to be other people. And Trump is, I mean, his life has been,
like, is he a textbook narcissist? Yes. Yeah. But he's got some issues. He's got a few issues.
He's got a few issues. But he's been fucking buying and selling and building real estate his whole
life. Hotels, casinos, golf courses. He, I mean, say what you want about the guy or put whatever
your politics are. Like, I think it's undeniable at this rate to say that the guy doesn't love America.
Oh, no. Like, I have no doubt in my mind that he loves America. There's no doubt in my mind.
Yeah. You know, he's, but, you know, people, boy, people don't like him.
What's so fun, what I love is that when he goes out and he's like, it's funny when I was a Democrat,
you people loved me. You know what I'm saying? When he was in New York, when he was a Democrat
for 40 years and he was donating to all the Democratic parties, they loved him.
All the candidates loved him. And then he said, I think I'm going to run as a Republican. I feel
like I have more, those types of values. Suddenly he became the, you know, oh, you're a bastard. Well,
when I was writing you those checks, you didn't say that. Dude, they got so many ways to try to
assassinate him. It's scary. Like, there's the shootings, like, obviously being exposed in
public areas surrounded by buildings, right? That's number one. Number two is poisoning.
Is he just fucking eating anything people are giving to him? Or are you like super paranoid now?
You gotta have the secret service check. That's gotta be the worst way to fucking die, right?
In a fucking room where no one else is there. You ate some pudding and you just fucking fell over.
Pudding. Where do you get pudding? The guy, listen, you could just poison McDonald's. He loves McDonald's.
Right, right, right. You know, that's how I want to go out though. Eating like a couple of cheese
That has to taste test the food to make sure it's not poisoned.
Yeah, I need a secret service. Listen, you saw that tubby little, little chick that was in front of
him. Yeah, she'll try. She was cowering behind him. Yeah, she'll, she'll try something. If you
said, hey, would you, you want to, you want to take, eat a quarter of my, my baby, hey, lady,
take a bite of this whopper. She's never seen a whopper that she didn't, she wasn't willing to try.
Oh God. And then, you know, they got tons of other, like truck bombs, poisoning the food.
There's, there's so many other ways to kill the guy.
Airplanes. CIA is synonymous, is fucking, is famous for assassinating people in airplanes.
What, what about planes down? I was gonna say, I love, like, is he getting on his fucking air? Like,
like the balls. After that. After that.
So cold Washington a couple of times. The balls. He's flying what, at least two times a day.
I'll, you know, granted, he's flying on his own plane. But like, if I'm him and I'm flying twice
a day across the fucking country, I got my plane surrounded by cameras. I got security
watching the cameras 24 seven to make sure no one approaches my goddamn plane. You know, like,
so everyone who gets on the plane, the fucking, the whoever, if they have, I don't know if they
have like a flight attendant on this private plane or like the pilots, like crazy screenings for
those people every time they get on the plane to make sure there's no like suitcase bomb or
anything like that. I mean, you still, you, you keep thinking, you have to understand all of that
stuff means that the, that the bomber or the, that the assassin is willing to die too.
Yeah. That's a huge, like, yeah, true. I just, there's not a lot of people are like, yeah, yeah.
Oh, what? Yeah. You're going to give me a hundred million dollars. Okay. Give me the suitcase.
Right. That's true. That's true. I'm going to be killed. Like, what do you mean? I don't care how
much money you give me. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a surface to air missile.
I mean, blaming on Russia. I'm sure there's, there's lots of ways to, to take them out. But
what once again, they'll probably take their ball and go home. I mean, at this point, it's just
probably, it's too late. It's too late. He's too far in. He's too far in. Let's just say, let's assume
that this was some kind of a coordinated attempt to assassinate him. And they do take their ball
and go home. There's still a lot of crazies out there. Like some crazy might still just get them.
I mean, I think the kid was just a 20 year old crazy, but you know, they're still, and, and either
this, this has done one of two things. It's either, for some of those people, it's either had them say,
wow, look how close this guy got, I can do this. Or they've said, I'll never even get close enough
in it. So, you know what I'm saying? So it may, some people, it may have emboldened them. And
some people that may have said, Oh, I'm not, I'm not willing to be killed. Like, yeah, this kid,
he had a perfect shot, couldn't do it and ended up dead. No, not interested. So yeah, I think he
probably in November, he wins. You know, and that's it. He wins and Biden steps down and
end the wars. I, huh. And we end all the wars and happily ever after. Yeah, I think he probably
stops fucking with Iran. He probably, where else are we? We got Iran, we got the Israel Gaza,
Israel Gaza. He's, I mean, that's already kind of, you know, on autopilot, he'll probably give
him some money and then, and then just put his support behind them. And then as far as Ukraine
is concerned, I think he's probably going to have a very harsh talk with Putin and say, Hey,
you know, look, like you keep what you've got, turn around, you got, you know, look,
let's go. I mean, he's probably just kicked the ball down the road. Like you're not doing anything
on my watch, or then we're just going to put a bunch of troops and then Putin will say, well,
then we'll, we'll nuke you and he'll say, right, let's do it. Yeah, let's go. And then Putin's
going to go, fuck, never mind. I'll just keep what I've got. And I'll, you know, and basically
Trump kicks the ball down the line and hopes that he can fortify, they can fortify it over the next
four years and hold what they've got. That's it. Like I think that's probably because I don't see
him going in and telling Putin, get this, get all your shit and go home and Putin being okay with
that. But I think he says, Hey, you keep what you've got. Like this isn't going to happen on my
watch and I'll, I'll throw all the American troops in there because fuck NATO. And then Putin goes,
fuck, okay. You know, that's the best case scenario. That's really the best case scenario.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if anyone's got a better chance to, to solve this thing diplomatically,
I think, I think he's going to be incentivized to do that. And I think he probably can do it.
Even though the funny thing is, even though Biden has made it abundantly clear, he doesn't mind
getting into a war. Right. You know, he just, he's just limited on what he's doing. It's very,
it's very, you know, like, and it's very, yeah, not only that, they're, he's, he's, he's actively
avoiding that. Like they, there was multiple peace talks early on in this whole war, where there
was like, there was a victory Ukraine had over Russia early on an early battle where Russia was
on their heels. And one of the top generals in the military was basically saying like,
now's the time to go to the negotiating table, we can actually negotiate a fucking ceasefire here
and end this thing. And Biden's White House was like, fuck off. No way. Yeah, that's a mistake.
John Meersheimer talks about this endlessly. So I don't know, man, but I think, I think if anyone's
going to solve these world problems, I think me and you were going to do it right here in this
podcast. So they need to get ahold of us and get us in Washington, get us in the White House.
Two guys that know about 3% of what's really happening. How long did we just do? Like,
that was like a three hour podcast, man. I thought it was going to be an hour, but we went.
It was a two and a half. I'm going to talk. Two and a half. That's great. Cool, man. Well,
thanks for Matt. That was, this was, uh, this was fun. Shout out to your YouTube channel.
Oh yeah. Yeah. I got a YouTube channel killing it. You're getting, it's, it's doing pretty good.
You're blowing up, dude. It is doing pretty good. What's getting, you're doing how many podcasts
a week now? Um, well, I mean, we're posting three, sometimes four, but you're recording how many
four. That's nuts, dude. Sometimes more fucking machine. Listen, I had one today.
I had one today. I don't know. You know, the guy, and I've had a couple of these where like the,
the person, you know, they're like, Oh, like, uh, you know, hold on. I'm going to smoke a fucking
fatty before I start. And you know, I'm like, uh, you know, cause you're texting, let's say it's a,
not in person, but let's say it's a, um, a remote. Well, sometimes they are in person,
like the guy gets stoned in the car and they show up and they sit down. And then it's like,
like, I don't know why these guys think that's a good idea. I guess, cause they've never smoked.
They'd never got, you know, whatever. They've never smoked some dope, sat down,
and then tried to tell their story. Obviously they're usually hanging out with their friends,
watching TV. Well, when you sit down and try and start thinking, you know,
chronologically and telling your story, it breaks down. You realize right away, like,
this is a bad idea, bro. Like, so they're not all Boziak like Boziak will take like a ton of stuff,
a ton of fucking drugs and be perfectly fine. Not the first podcast he didn't hear. I gave him two
gummies and he was blasted. Oh, was he? Oh, I thought he did. He was fine. I thought he was
kind of fine. You were like, Oh, this guy's not going to be able to move. Well, no, even you
said after his first podcast, you're like, he was all over the fucking place. Yeah, he was. He was.
But he was still semi function. Oh yeah. No, normal person wouldn't be able to tell. This guy's
texting me, telling me like he's going to hold on, give me five minutes. I'm going to light up one
real quick. And I went, yo, bro, I said, uh, that's probably not a good idea. I said, I've had
multiple people who have done that, you know, and they've been doing this for a few years now.
Like it never works out. He's like, Oh, I'm just fucking around. I'm not going to do that. Just
give me five minutes. And then he gets on there. We went an hour and I'm going, Hey, and here's the
thing. Like I saw your paperwork. So I've seen your paperwork. Like I know what you're telling me
is true that you, you did get this much time. All of these things did happen. You were charged with
these crimes. I've read the, um, sorry, the articles. And, but when I'm asking him questions,
he's like, I, you know, he's like, yeah, bro, like I got him dressed like, like, like a blunt,
like I don't know what he said eight times, seven, eight times, seven, eight times. And I went, I
said, Oh, I said, like, well, like for what? Like, you know, like a bunch of stuff, like what?
You're like, I don't know, man. Like a lot of different things. Like I anyway, so, so then,
and he just kept going. And then there was another time where he was like, Oh, I'm making this. I
was making this much money. And I remember the article had said he had made several million
dollars. And I was like, yes. I was like, so what kind of, what are you spending that money on? He's
like, um, you know, stop, like, you know, we're like, I mean, I don't really know the bar is low,
huh? And I'm like, you don't, you made five or $6 million and you don't know what you spend any
of it on. Did you buy cars? Like, I don't, I don't know. I mean, and I was like, like, I've read
the articles, like, you know what I'm saying? It's like, he was so fucked up that we've, I kept thinking
he'll get better. I finally just said, listen, bro, we got to stop. I put it on pause. I said,
listen, I said, how do you feel you're doing right now? Yeah, I said, I think, and he goes,
and he goes, um, not good, man, not good. He said, I mean, he said, like, I, I, I, listen,
I know you told me not to, but I got fucked up before him. I was super nervous and a lot of
anxiety. I'm anxious. And I, um, uh, and I went, yeah, I said, here's the problem. I'm asking
you questions that you should know the answers to. And you're like, uh, I don't know. Like, you don't
know. You don't know that when you were at the counter and you used a credit card and the guy
said, I got to call the manager whether or not he called the manager. Uh, yeah, bro. Like, I can't
remember. You can't remember whether this is a huge deal. Uh, and I go, I mean, bro, like, I'm sorry,
but I said, I don't think you're bullshitting. I read everything I saw. I know what's, what's
going on. I know you got a rest. I know what happened. I said, but you got to do better,
bro. And he goes, um, yeah, I, uh, and he just next, you know, you see a moving boom. He just
disappeared. He disconnected. Wow. So you're going to post it? Now, now people, now people are
going to want to watch it. No, it's horrible, bro. And the worst thing is, is like, it, it would be
different if I thought you're, you're fucking bullshitting me, but he sent me all this stuff.
And I've read all the stuff and there were newspaper articles and he's in them. And there's,
he sent me like, he sent me like his paperwork from being arrested and what he was charged with
in his indictment. Like this is true. You just got so overwhelmingly fucked up and you were so
anxious. You could not tell your story. Right. And so I, so I texted and I said, Hey,
bro, I don't know what happened. I think you just disconnected. I said, look, I get it.
I said, do you want to re, you want to reschedule this? He's like, bro, let me just think about
this. Like, I don't know. I shouldn't have got fucked up. I'm so embarrassed. I'm so sorry.
And you know, he apologized and I get it, but it was just like, you know, like these guys,
they come on the, like I said, the bar is low. And this guy has an amazing story, by the way.
Like it's, it's a dark with guys on my channel love dark web fraud kind of story. Oh man, guys.
Do you think you're ever going to venture out of true crime and cover some more stuff?
You know, I did once or twice. I've done some like UFO stuff, right? And, and, and like a few of
them did really well. Like we'll probably want some of my top 10 videos is probably like a UFO
video. But, but then I did a few more and then they start very quickly. They start dropping.
They don't, they don't get a lot of views. And then, you know, every time I venture out,
like I'll venture out every once in a while. Some guys got a crime story. Like it's almost
like he's trying to work in his crime story. Like I, you know, like he did six months or
what else are you interested besides true crime stories? I just like, what do you, what are you
like? What other kind of, what other type of stuff are you like interested in talking about or
um? You love talking about China. We've done a bunch of China podcasts.
And I feel like I'm over China. And I just don't, you know, if luckily I typically have a little
bit more knowledge than the person I'm talking to. So you can semi sound like you know what you're
talking about. But, and the problem with China too is that like there's so many things going
wrong right now, you know, and it's, it's just getting worse and worse. Like I'm just interested
in like, it's such an interesting time to be alive right now. It really is. And you know,
here's, maybe it's not even that interesting, Danny. Maybe it's just that the access to the
information is so overwhelming at this point. Like it's probably always at this interested,
interesting back in the 70s and 80s and the 90s when I grew up that just the,
there's no internet. There was no internet. So I don't have a clue what's going on three states
away. Now it's just you wake up, you fucking grab your phone and you're instantly drowning in
information. It's, it's insane dude. I'm also super interested in like this whole, how like, like the
in Japan, you know, that there's just, there's tons of just abandoned houses and, and they're,
they're, they're like, they're working class is disappearing and all these people are old.
Like there's nobody to replace these jobs and that's happening everywhere. That's happening
in Japan. It's happening here. It's happening here. So I'm like, it's neo feudalism dude.
It's insane. Like what's going to happen? Like what's going to happen? What's going to happen
when there's not enough people in Japan to pay in to their social security style system to pay
the people that are retired? Like what's going to happen when same thing with here? Like what
happens when there's not enough people to pay in to support the people that have been paying in?
Right. I mean, I, you know, they're like, oh, it's going to collapse. Like they're not going
to let it collapse, but they basically just sent enough money to Ukraine that you could have fixed
it. So I know they'll fix it, but it's like, how? And you know, so those things worry me,
but I'm, unfortunately, I'm not smart enough to come up with a solution or have yourself
enough credit, bro. You're super smart. Everyone I talk to, they talk, they brag about how smart
you are. I'm just, just because I'm a con man. They just don't know. They don't know. I'm fooling
them. No, you're smart. Like, what's going to happen, bro? Yeah, I don't know. And also,
do you see that they're talking about, there's like reports of the military times talking about
like bringing back the draft. And there's lots of, there's lots of countries like France and
Germany, they're talking about bringing back the draft. Nobody, nobody wants to be in the
military anymore. I think they're protesting. I think it's getting so bad. They're protesting
about it. They're like seriously contemplating bringing back the draft. But there are other
countries where you have to, you have to go in for two years or four years or six. Are you,
you have to. Right. And here we're, listen, people, when my mother would tell stories,
this is during World War II. She was a little kid in World War II, like six, seven, eight years
old. She remembers when they put out flyers and the newspaper came out and they said, listen,
any extra pans that you have that they're going around, they like, and this isn't like government.
They had a guy, they had guys in a little outfit. It's the government, but like they'll get like
a truck. Right. We're bringing a truck around through all the city neighborhoods in these blocks
in this area for the next week. If you have extra pots and pans, bring them outside and give them
to us. They're building Liberty ships out of them. Could you imagine if right now they said, hey,
we're going through your neighborhood. If you have extra metal pans, donate them. We're not
buying them. You're giving them for the war effort. And you know what? They had so many of them,
they didn't know what to do with. If they did that now, nobody'd give anything. I don't know.
They'd be like, oh, fuck you. It's like, you don't realize how good you have it. They didn't have it
one-tenth as good as we have it now and they're giving everything they can. We got four pans,
but we could live off of one. I got three kids to feed and I got one pan. Fuck it. Give the other
three pans. I want to help build a ship to help defeat Nazi Germany. And now people wouldn't,
they wouldn't donate a dollar. No. You know, it's so, so sad. And they won't, here's the real
problem is like with the US, like I don't think you'll, I think the real problem is, and this is
what really sucks, is that the US is so isolated, we'll never be invaded. Does that make sense?
Yeah. Like we're surrounded by two oceans. Right. Like we've got the best, you know, we have the
best geographical setup. Right. So we're always going to be in a great position. The problem is
economically, we may be devastated. And that's what China and Russia and everybody's working on,
right? Absolutely. But, but like in Europe, they've been invaded so many times, at least they have
that fear, you know? And so just like that, I forget his name. He's a British politician,
where he's like other countries aren't, they're not teaching their children to hate their country.
You know, like they're not in Russia, they're not preaching to hate Russia and hate the
government of Russia and the country of Russia. Like in the United States, you're being raised
to hate your own country. Yeah. So I just think that it's just, it's just so sad when I see this.
It goes to what Bustamante has said on this podcast many times, is we need an enemy to be able to
unite. It's like the 9-11 thing. It's like that 9-11, which showed us, you know, a real existential
threat and people banded together like no other after 9-11. And we haven't had anything like
that. We don't really have an enemy. So we fight ourselves. Those countries over there in Europe,
they've been through so much hell in the last 100 years that it's like, I mean, even if you're,
even if you're like in your teens, there's like, you have your relatives telling you about it.
You have the epigenetic fucking fear built into you of, of what's been happening in that part
of the world. You're surrounded by other countries and other foreign governments and militaries all
the time. And you see these atrocities every decade or so. There's some atrocity where one
country's invading another one and then they're wiping out an entire race or trying to. And you're
like, you know, like the Serbs, you know, when they invade, you know, Croatia and the Serbs,
and then they go in, they're going around with hit squads. Like, you know, it's possible. It's
happening a couple hundred, couple hundred miles or, you know, kilometers away or whatever you
call it, whatever they are, forget what this is. But kilometers, yeah, it's, it's not far away.
Like, oh my God, that's only two countries away. Like that's a, that's a five hour drive. And I
could be there. And right now they're, they've got hit squads going around killing Croatians. Like,
but it's, we're so far removed that we just think that could never happen. So the idea of saying,
hey, there's a draft and people freaking out, like, you can't make me this. You can't like,
I'm not doing that. Like, bro, it, what are you going to do if they show up on our borders? The
problem is they're not going to show up on our borders. And the, yeah, that's the problem. And
if there was a draft, like the problem is people are waking up now to how much bullshit is wrapped
up in these wars and how it's just fueling this military industrial compact, Plex, and growing,
it's just a mechanism to grow our GDP and dominate the rest of the world and install democracies
in the rest of the world. Like we can't just worry about ourselves. Did you see,
so why would you want to be drafted into this fuckery? I mean, I hear you.
There's, what are you fighting for? You're fighting for some billionaires. Like, and you're
fighting for this fucking fake democracy of people running, running this fucking brain dead
puppet that we don't know who the hell is running it. But they obviously, their moral standards
aren't what they used to be in this country with the bleep as far as leadership goes.
Did you see this? Did you ever watch the series fall out? No. Oh my God. Steven. Oh,
fuck yes. I heard it was great though. Right? It's so, I, you know what? I think you told me
about this before I meant to watch it and I just did it. It is. It's, it's, it's, it's so, I feel
so, it sucks. I don't get to spend as much time watching good shows anymore. What's great is that
it's everything you just said. It's like, it's like capitalism and the industrial complex gone,
like in the fifties, like what if it didn't taper off? You know, instead it's, it goes wild.
And then it gets to such a point where they start a nuclear war because they built these bunkers
and we can survive the war. I mean, it's, it's insanity like that. Right. But the problem is
the bunkers, it's going to be all the billionaires and the fucking joint chiefs of staff and all
the, all the politicians flying around in their jet with their fucking pocket books full of all
this lobbying money. And while us, the, the, the working class blue collar podcasters like,
we don't make it. We don't make it blue collar. He just said blue collared
podcasters. Not you man. You just went up at the tax bracket. I know what's going on with you, Matt.
You're not classified as blue collar anymore. But anyways, thanks again. This was a great podcast.
You got to watch these, these, I know, I don't have time man. I'm raising two kids. I got fucking,
I don't have the luxury of time that you and Julian have to study all this shit and spend all this
time. My wife's raising the kids. She is raising the kids. She is raising the kids, but I got a lot.
I'm busy too, man. I do a lot of shit with my kids. I'm not a fucking absent father.
When are you going to cut up that sizzle reel? We just got done filming it, Matt. Give us a break.
He has to pace himself for a week. Yeah. I need a week long breather.
I, I, we have to hire for 45 minutes. We have to hire an editor. So if you're an editor out there
and you're watching this, we are now hiring an editor to cut up a sizzle reel for a, one of Matt's
books that we're turning into a pitch for a television series or a documentary. Whatever.
Either way, hit us up. A series. No, not a series, but it might be a four part deal. More like a doc.
Like a doc series. Yeah. Like a limited doc series. Yeah. All based on the story of you meeting
Ephraim Devaroli from War Dogs in Prison and his scam against Warner Brothers to basically
sue them into oblivion. Just conning you into writing the book. The lawsuit, the whole thing.
Super good. We've been filming it for the last few months. We interviewed Devaroli. We interviewed
Pete Rossini. We interviewed FBI agent Jim Diorio. We interviewed you. Yeah. Who else?
Packhouse. Yeah. I already mentioned Packhouse. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. He was one of the first
ones. I thought you said Devaroli. Sorry. Oh, no, no, no. Yeah. We didn't interview Devaroli. We
interviewed Packhouse. Yeah. But yeah, we, we want to put together a sizzle reel. It should be
super cool, but we need a talented, talented, talented editor to help us out. Yeah. For what
would it be? Three, five minutes, three minutes, five minutes, five minutes sizzle, five minutes
sizzle. Yep. Could be banging. And I've actually already written out a semi, you know, a sizzle.
So kind of a loose leaf, kind of like how I thought it should go. How we can edit it.
But it doesn't draw it out. Yeah. But you know, whatever it comes up, whatever somebody comes
up with something better. I mean, I'm, I'm novice. I don't really know what I'm doing as far as a
sizzle is concerned, but yeah, but we've definitely got the footage. Beautiful. Thank God, Stephen
was here to, to shoot it. And yeah, Stephen did most of the work. Stephen set it all up.
Steve was cinematographer and Danny drove us to Miami. I just was the driver pretty much. Yeah.
All right. Tell everyone where they can find your YouTube channel, follow your podcast,
all that stuff. Let's wrap it up. I gotta get the fuck out of here. It's almost nine o'clock.
Listen to be honest with you guys can do better. I'll be honest. It's Matt Cox inside True Crime.
If you have some time, check it out. Four podcasts a week. Matt's a goddamn workhorse.
Knocking it out. We'll link it below. Good night, everybody. See ya.
