Ryan. Thanks for coming, bro.
Yeah, man.
I love your podcast. I love your merch. Thanks for the hat.
You're very welcome.
Check it out. I won't wear it because I got my headphones on. I love the logo, the triangle
with the flying saucer. Is that the triangle that your dad saw on the aliens' bodies?
Yeah, so you wanted to get into that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. We talked about this briefly before we started recording.
I'm really a big proponent of, I guess you could call it like esoterica, you know, things
like that. And yeah, so the idea came to me before we came out with the show, like I need
to have a sigil. I need to have a symbol. Are you familiar with a sigil? What that means?
So a sigil is the notion that you have a symbol, usually a geometric symbol, that has some
sort of metaphorical or metaphysical meaning packed behind it that is impactful on the
subconscious mind. So the idea is that the more people are viewing the symbol and spreading
the symbol and are aware of the symbol, its power grows out into the real world. So the
meaning behind the symbol is, yes, when dad encountered these entities, they had the triangle
on their chest, which represented the trinity of creation, right? The idea that there's a
masculine and a feminine force of nature that are creating us, you know, the divine mother,
the divine father, etc. But the UFO and the triangle represents the union of the UFO phenomenon
in the spiritual forces. It's also like the pyramids of Egypt because the beings showed
them the pyramid. So it's the notion that the UFO phenomenon is truly one and the same
with the spiritual phenomenon. So this symbol just came to me like this is it. Also, it's
the philosopher's stone. If you look at it, it's like the triangle with the circle, very
ancient symbol and alchemy. What did you say? What would you call it? The philosopher, what?
It's like the philosopher's stone. It's an ancient alchemical symbol, which is like basically,
you know, through your mind, through perception, through your thoughts and your willpower,
you can sort of change reality or, you know, manifest. So it's a play on that. It's just a
play on these things. You know, does it have any magical power to it? Maybe not, but it's cool,
right? That's that's the idea behind it. It's super cool. I love it. It's a beautiful design.
Thank you. So what's going on with your dad, dude? Hey, guys, I want to ask you a quick favor.
Over the last few months, almost 70% of the viewers of this podcast are not subscribed to the
channel. The most important common denominator that allows me to keep creating these podcasts
every single week is you hitting that subscribe button below the videos. I want to thank every
single one of you who watches and supports these podcasts. I would not be able to do without you.
Please hit that subscribe button if you enjoy it. Now back to the show.
I mean, it depends on the day. Okay, so what do you think is really going on in the sky with
these orbs you sing? Like, what is it? Like, what are the orbs? What are those orbs? I went out
with him the night before we recorded the podcast. I'm sure they told you. Your sister and your dad
told you. Well, I called, remember? And I said, was that the same night? Yeah, I called because I
had wrapped recording and I called to speak to you and you were out there. We went on the beach
the night before and we sat out there for probably, how long were we out there, Steve,
for an hour? I thought it was two hours. It might have been two hours, but we were out there for
at least 45 minutes to an hour before we saw an orb. There was lots of planes and like flying
through the sky and then the orbs, they were way different than the planes. Like they were coming
up off the horizon, going back down, disappearing behind the horizon, moving way, moving to the
left and fading out and then popping back up. Like it was very clear on video. I have no idea what
they are. Yeah, it's like, it's hard, man. It's hard to say exactly, right? Because it's like,
you got people out there and like, well, we don't know. How could you know? But it's, on the other
hand in the spectrum, it's like, well, I think I have a pretty good idea because I've been seeing
them since I was young, you know, and based on everything that I've observed of them, the way
they behave, the way they interact, most people don't like kind of approaching this part of the
conversation, but also based on what these entities have told my dad they are. Not sure if you're
aware of that part yet, but they actually have told him a thing or two, you know. And they said
they're guardians. For people that are listening, yeah, go ahead. Yeah. You can fill in the blank.
They actually said things to my date. They gave them a message. They gave them a long message,
you know. They said they're the guardians. They said that they work for creation, that they
created us. They protect us from the forces of darkness and things like that. And through the
aeons, meaning, you know, the ages, thousands and thousands of years, they have sort of like
overseen our, you could say, evolution here, that they basically put us here and they monitor us
and they guide us and they keep us from going extinct, keep us from, you know, getting wiped
out or our biology mutating too far out of control, you know. So it's like, what are they? I don't
know. To me, when I think, here's the problem. The problem is, you know, I want to say what I
really think they are, but then people out there get offended, you know, because if you say it's
an alien, then you, then you hurt the spiritual crowd. If you say it's an angel, then you hurt
the atheist, you know, alien crowd. Yeah. What I really think they are, I think that they are
beings of a vibration that is much higher than ours. I think that they have evolved past dense
material reality. I think that they are probably purely enlightened, funny because of where light
is in the middle of it, you know, enlightened. And I think that they are light. I think that they
actually are the vibration and frequency of light, which, you know, is beyond physical. They come
from another place, you know, they come from a place that is eternal. You could call it the
spirit world. You could call it string theory, other dimensions, whatever. Either way, I've seen
them pop in and disappear and do crazy magical things. So yeah, that's what I was going to say.
Do you think that there's something that's in like a place that is like a deeper dimension of
reality? Like there's that's like goes beyond our three dimensions, maybe like four or five or six
dimensions and then like can peek through whenever it decides it wants to. Exactly. I tend to think
that it's more like, we're the false dimension, you know, like knock on wood, we're the dream,
we're the illusion, and that they come from the real place, they come from the eternal place,
which is what they told my dad, we come from the eternal place. It's basically like the spirit
world. It's a dimension that's permanent and it's beyond material reality. And they basically said
like nothing here is of any object to us. I mean, we could or obstacle to us, you know, we could
pop out of your light bulb, we could walk through your wall, we can vibrate through the atoms,
we can do anything, you know. When I think of these beings, I think in terms of the various
mythologies around the world, you know, I think of like Irish fairies, I think of like Arabic
Jinn or Genies, I think of biblical angels, I think of like the Nagas, you know, the I think it's,
I could be wrong here, but the Japanese snake beings that come from the sky. I mean,
you have all these different myths of these different beings that come down and they're
divine. Right. Maybe it's all the same thing. Yeah, I think it's likely all the same thing,
right? It's something spiritual. That's what I know. That's all I know. And you can experience
these things the same way your dad can? The same way, no, I haven't yet. How old were you when you
first started seeing those orbs in the sky with your dad? 13. 13. And I'm just turned 30, so.
You just turned 30. Yeah. What did you think about this when you were 13 years old? What was your
first reaction to this and like your dad going through all this stuff? God bless my grandfather.
I just have to say that and get out of the way. Two days ago was the 10 year anniversary of his
passing. I wanted to, I don't want to speak ill of the dead. It's a funny story, although at the
time it wasn't funny. But when I was 13 years old, the week that this stuff started happening,
I got off the school bus and I actually, he was my next door neighbor, my grandfather.
Your grandfather was. Yeah. And a lot of days I would get off the bus and my brothers were in
high school. My sister was in elementary school, so it was this awkward period where it was just
me home for hours. So I would go next door. And I go this one day and my grandpa says,
boy, your daddy's been out in the woods smoking dope. He's been seeing them green boogerman.
And I'm like, I'm just a 13 year old kid. I'm like, what? What do you mean?
I don't understand, right? And I go home that night and sure enough, my brother and my dad
started telling me what happened. They saw things in the woods and they exactly like the
story he told you. I mean, he told all of it to me minus the regression that hadn't happened yet.
So yeah, immediately I believed him. I believed my dad, despite what my grandpa said, I believed
my dad because I saw him in the eyes or I stared at him in the eyes and I could see how sincere
he was. And also like children believe in magic anyway. They kind of believe in fairy tales and
stuff. So I didn't have a hard time accepting it. But over the coming weeks, so what happened was
dad was so desperate to be believed that he would start dragging us out of bed.
They're out here right now. Get out here. Get out here. You know, four in the morning,
three in the morning, five in the morning, whatever, he would go out and he would sit there
and look at the sky at night and wait to see them. And he was so desperate. He would just
get us out there. And we saw, I mean, it was within weeks that I started to see for myself.
I believed right away. I never doubted. I mean, here I am today. I'm 30 years old and I'm, you know,
I'm doing the thing. I'm going out there and trying to help and tell the story. And I feel
like it's my burden as much as it is his and my siblings. And I've always believed, you know.
Yeah. So have you ever since that happened and you started seeing this stuff, did that like
heighten your focus on this sort of the history of like a religion and a cult stuff and esoteric
stuff and all this history of UFO phenomenon? Did you did that sort of like spark your interest
in all this stuff? Yeah. So kind of yes and kind of no. So are you familiar with Pentecostal
Holiness? Roughly. I grew up Pentecostal Holiness, which is like basically, and I say this respectfully,
you know, I don't, I don't mean to ruffle any feathers, but it's basically like two levels
below Amish. Oh, really? Yeah. It's a very, very serious and very strict adherence to,
you know, religious belief. And I say all that to say, I was already very much a person of faith,
you know, from birth on to now, you know, believing something, that's my point, believing
something, believing God, believing something is there, you know. And I remember being a little boy
and I have to say, you can believe all day, but sometimes I just got so bored sitting in church,
you know, and in the times that I couldn't get away with whipping out my Game Boy and playing
Super Metroid in church, you know, my mom slapped me on the wrist, I put it away and I start reading
the Bible. And one thing I remember doing as a child was always being obsessed with the book
of revelations because I wanted to learn more at a young age. It wasn't enough for me to just
read what was there. I wanted more. I wanted something deeper. And I guess in, you know,
the Christian community, the book of revelations is the most mystical text, right? So I would read
it over and over and over and I was never satisfied. I never had enough. I just wanted more. I figured
if I kept reading it, you know, every sermon that maybe I'd understand it different. Anyway,
so I say all that to say. I was already very, very deeply fascinated with spiritual mysteries,
but I, you know, Christians are taught like you're not allowed to look anywhere outside of the
Bible. Where do you go? Well, there's nothing else out there. It has to be right here. Fast
forward to when I'm 13 years old. I start seeing lights in the sky. I don't have to necessarily
go into all the details of, you know, dad's fallout of when he told that story because Danny
already, I'm talking to the listener, Danny covered it in the episode with dad. So I would
highly encourage you listen to him first if you haven't heard that yet, but it was a very vicious,
cruel reaction, you know, when he came out with the story. And I was just so baffled at 13 years
old that here I am with my dad and I'm having these experiences and I'm seeing these entities,
yet I'm being told by everybody that it's not real, that the only thing that exists is within the
Bible and there's no mention officially of UFOs by the government until like 2017, something like
that here. So what year was this when you were 18 or third? 2007. 2007. Yeah. So like I'm like
really like alone in the universe having these experiences going to church. They're telling
us it's demonic. It's not real. It's not happening. You know, so the point is to answer your question,
my mind was shattered very early. I knew that there was something deeper. I had this itch to
explore what was deeper. Then I start seeing this thing and I'm like there has to be the entire
mysteries of the creation of the universe can't be contained within one book. It's not possible.
What about, you know, it was published 2000 years ago. What about between now and then?
A lot of crazy stuff has happened. That's not in there. What about all this stuff before it?
That's not in there either. So there has to be more, you know. So that's kind of what started
me down that journey of being curious about other spiritual mysteries and you know, like you said,
UFO literature and lore and things like that. And yeah, next thing you know, I'm studying like
hermeticism and Gnosticism and Rosicrucianism and the wisdom traditions and things like that.
That's where I ended up, you know. How did like discovering this UFO phenomenon with
your dad change your outlook on religion? Well, it helped me to be more open-minded, you know,
to realize like, surely the thing that I've learned that's most important is that
God has to be bigger than anyone's system, right? God has to be bigger than anyone thought. If there
really is a God, let's just all pretend we don't know, right? I think there is, you know. I do,
but let's just pretend we don't know. If there is an intelligent being that thought the universe
into reality and you look down from the perspective of, you know, just studying humanity and how we
think about it, we're all just like killing each other and spiting each other and judging each other
saying, my God makes more sense. Well, actually, mine makes more sense. Well, I have these rules
to get me closer to God. Well, I don't care about being closer to God, it's just about believing a
certain way and sacrificing this and that and the other and they all have these different rules and
customs and the thing that I've learned is God has to be bigger than all of that, right? God has to be
so unfathomable, so ineffable that surely we can't understand with human words and concepts,
right? I think that what I've learned most of all is that in order to begin to conceive of what God
is, we have to humble ourselves to the very fact that there are forces out there that are way
greater than we can understand. We're human, we make mistakes, it's part of our design and I think
that God is truly bigger than any one system, you know, and like I think that it doesn't matter
so much what you think you should say or do or think or believe to try to be, you know, loyal to
to the deity, God, whatever, Allah, Krishna, whatever your favorite name is, I don't even think the
name matters, I think what matters is how you treat people, how you embody that energy, right?
If God was real, surely I would want to be a reflection of that force, right? It's like what
Jesus said, it's like what Buddha said, like you would want to embody that energy, that vibration,
you would want to actually treat other people with kindness. I don't really think it matters so much
what you believe. Does that make sense? I feel like I'm kind of rambling here, but it's like
actions, like treat people, like Christ consciousness, that's the simple way I can explain it is like
it's so much more important to actually be good to other people. Yes, definitely and that's sort
of reflected in some of the stories your dad tells about his interactions with the beings,
like one of the stories he said that he had an interaction with one of the couple beings outside
of the forest at the treeline, they talked about like protecting animals or like every animal is
sacred and like every life on earth. All consciousness is one. Yeah, one, like we're all one.
What happened with your brother, Chris Jr.? Like the original night? No, like ever since then,
because I don't think I've ever seen any interviews or anything with him. What's he
doing? How did he cope with all this stuff and all this story and this whole sort of like life
your dad has built? So he's done one interview since and it's been on my show. Oh really? Yeah,
I can't recall the episode title off top of my head, but actually he's done a few since, he's
been on, he's been on bloods to set so a few times. Okay. Yeah, no, he didn't do too well
in the beginning because he was 17 years old and he came face to face with entities in the woods.
I mean, like literally face to face. I'm not, I don't recall if dad went into great detail
about what happened to Junior, but about the Cape Fear River. Yeah, he told about him. I don't know
how much detail he gave. I know he said the eyes. He mentioned the eyes. He mentioned the eyes,
yeah, he mentioned like hiding in the bushes. Did he say the part about how Chris Jr. was
frozen for hours and he couldn't move and one of these entities was staring at him. No. In the
eyes and he, he couldn't, he couldn't do anything. He couldn't scream, he couldn't yell, he couldn't
run. He was just, he mentioned that he didn't say it was for hours though. Yeah, it was for hours
until dad got back and then when dad got back from where he was because he was missing for hours,
you know, and he gets back, he's yelling for Junior, he's looking for him and then the beings just
kind of, they kind of vanish and Junior snaps too and he's kind of well like he can move.
So that Cape Fear River incident, right, that your dad describes, he described in the podcast,
the beginning of the podcast that I did with them, they were gone for, they thought they were
gone for like 45 minutes, 30 minutes, but they ended up being gone like for multiple hours.
Do they have any idea, does your brother or your dad have any idea where they were for that time?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'm smiling because I'm glad you asked and I also apologize for this,
I do have a cold. So I apologize to the listener in advance. Sorry, you sound great.
Thank you. But yeah, so dad was missing for four hours and we know this because it was corroborated
by the witnesses and also they came in, they did an investigation and they, you know, determined
there was missing time. I mean, it's history, but for those who don't know, it was determined he
was missing for four hours. So eventually they brought a hypnotherapist, like a regression
therapist, a Harvard train psychologist by the name of Michael O'Connell.
Michael O'Connell. Yep. And very cool guy. And he's at, he's currently at Harvard.
He passed away. Oh, did he? But he, yeah, he was in the past. It's through the Discovery Channel and
Mufon brought out to do his regression. And anyway, so he,
Why do all these Harvard psychiatrists die? It sucks. Was it a old age or did he hit my car?
I don't know. He was pretty old when I met him. I was 14. Okay. Yeah, he died years ago. And I
think he generally had some serious health complications. But yeah, I don't know about
that one. But anyway, so he did do a regression on my dad and they, so for context, for those out
there who don't know, yes, a History Channel documentary just aired about my family in August,
but a Discovery Channel documentary aired about us in 2008. And it was terrible. It was, it was
just so terrible. And anyway, they only showed like maybe 90 seconds, four minutes tops out of an
hour and a half regression with all this mind blowing information. And the part that they did
air in the regression on TV was like out of context, it was so ridiculous. It was, it was like
something to the effect of they're letting the children out to play like this whoa, you know,
sensational kind of part of it, but it was an hour and a half, right? And for anybody who's
interested in the transcript of the, is it okay if I mentioned episodes of my show? Of course.
Okay. Yeah. So episode nine of my show, Blasio Sesso, I do actually verbatim go through the
entire transcript. Okay. And of the hypnotic regression. Uh-huh. Yep. I got my hands on a
transcript of it and I do a reading of it. And then in episode 17 of again, my show, we do a full
reading of his, he had a regression years later with the, the female entity, commonly known as
the lady. Yeah. The lady. So anyway, so I do, I do provide those regressions, but
so can you walk me through that regression with the first one? Absolutely. Yeah. I just
wanted to get that out of the way so that the listener after they hear this, they can go click
and they can hear the whole thing verbatim. But yeah. So here's what happened. Now I can't quote
it verbatim, but I'll tell you what happened. So okay. So as dad was telling you in the previous
episode that he was on, um, he goes to the top of this hill, right? And he sees these two lights
up on the horizon. And you know, first train of thought is like, Oh, it's the sun. Wait a minute.
There's not two sons. That's weird. So immediately it's fear. He turns like he's going to run,
but then he looks back at a third one appears. Next thing he remembers, he's at the campfire.
Okay. Well, that was the four hours. So here's what happened. One of those lights, uh,
approached him. It came up to him and my dad was able to recall reaching out and touching it.
But it was this thing of pure living light that was shaped like maybe like a teardrop shape.
Like he commonly draws it like the shape of a tear. I was kind of rounded in the front and then it
narrows, you know, you could be like a football, but also kind of like a teardrop. I don't know.
But, um, anyway, so it's like that, but then it has these spikes of light rotating around it.
It's, it's like kind of like plasma, kind of like light that is sentient. I can't,
I can't describe it. I try to use different words, hoping that it'll just this ball of
light floats up to him. Yes. But it's massive. It's, it's a vessel of some kind. It's, it's like,
how would you say? I mean, I don't know. I wasn't there, but based on his description,
probably 40 foot. I mean, it's, it's huge. Wow. You know, and the distance it's like
covering the horizon like the sun, you know, and it comes up to him and it's got these spikes of
light rotating around it. And he even recalls like the shapes of them and he reaches out to touch it.
Next thing he knows, he's in a dark room and, um, he can see stars all around him and he's surrounded
by these entities, these seven to eight foot tall entities, the ones that I see. The big ones.
Uh-huh. And dad's freaking out. He's like, where's my son? Where's my son? Where's Chris Jr.
And they're like, basically, uh, don't worry about him. We're keeping him safe. We're watching over
and basically they, they just, they tell him all kinds of things like the stuff I said earlier,
they said they're the guardians. They serve creation. Yes. They had the triangle on their chest.
They said it represented creation or the trinity, the idea that there are, you know,
divine forces creating us, you know, and they basically said that they, they protect us
from dark forces. I mean, they, they, they guide our evolution. Exactly the stuff I said earlier.
This is the stuff they told him in that span of time. In this black dark room that he was in?
Well, yeah. I mean, he was inside the light. It was like, you know, he could see the stars around
him. It was like translucent. Imagine you're in something like you're, let's just say a ship,
maybe not necessarily technological. I mean, we're talking about dimensional entities here.
Right. Exactly. But, but, you know, we'll just say for, for a conversational sake, it's a ship,
right? And you're looking around and it's like, it's dark because you can see all the stars around
you, but there's no walls. It's, it's like translucent like glass. You can just see everything
around you. It's like he stepped through a portal or something. Exactly. Yeah. And wherever you
thought is where it would go. They, they let him do it. Think wherever you think you'll go.
You control with your mind. It's like you're connected to this. It's a kind of
dimensional technology that we don't have, you know, and they explained to him. They said the
people in power of the world, they're, they're, they don't like us too much. You know, they're,
they're very afraid of us, but, you know, they, they can't really do anything about it, you know,
and we're the guardians unit. We're here to help. And many years went by before he really
learned much more about their intentions, you know, because like he explained, he came back,
the four hours was, was over. And over the next five years, we would be having experiences like
my sister, I heard my sister explain it. It was like poltergeist activity in the house.
Before we go there, I want to ask, so that hypnotic regression, that was the first hypnotic
regression your dad did, where he kind of like, where he remembered what happened.
Right.
Why do you think they make you forget it?
Yeah, that's good.
Why do you forget all that? Like if they were actually trying to communicate something important
to him. I think it has to do with trauma. Like I think it has to do, my interpretation is
mortal eyes aren't really supposed to be seeing this kind of stuff regularly.
Mortal eyes?
Yeah, like me and you, you know, bodies, people who are not dimensional beings, we're just ordinary
people. I don't think the brain...
Yeah, I know when we would lose our minds, a lot of people would.
Or it would be so traumatic that you would repress the memory.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
And you would have missing time. But that's just one interpretation. The other interpretation,
obviously, is they do wipe your memory. Why? I don't know, because what if you never had a
regression? What if you never recovered it? Dude, I'm...
Yeah, your dad mentioned something like that on the podcast, something about some sort of
thing they used to reverse, like a real neuralizer.
Oh yeah, that was like some CIA patent or something.
Yeah.
Yeah, the beings though, yeah, I don't know. I mean, sure, they could, they very...
But he said that they got it from them, maybe. Maybe I heard him wrong, but he said they got the
idea from, I guess the beings had this thing first, and then they tried to figure it out
and reverse engineer it, maybe, I don't know.
I'm not sure.
But the memory wiping thing is always so weird to me. Like why do they wipe your memory?
Why?
Even do they, maybe they don't. Like you said, maybe it's just trauma. You know what I mean?
Maybe it's just your own mind doing this to save yourself the anxiety.
I think in the case of my dad, it could have been trauma. I don't know, because I will say
it took him about a year and a half between that initial night and then the actual
hypnotic regression because of the Discovery Channel investigation, you know?
And that's the one good thing that came out of all of the Discovery Channel stuff
was the regression. Everything else, don't care about it, but...
Did your brother do a regression?
No.
No?
No, none of us kids have had, I mean, I've had like a past life regression if you believe in
that kind of thing, but no, I haven't had this kind of, you know, here I am, I'm going on...
Why did your brother do it?
It wasn't offered.
Oh, really?
Yeah. As far as I know, or he didn't want any part in it, he didn't want to go forward with it.
I don't know. I mean, it was like 16 years ago.
Yeah, he was only 17.
Yeah, he would have been about 18 by the time the documentary came out, but anyway.
So, yeah, I mean, I'm not going to lie to you until you don't have recurring dreams
and that I haven't had missing time and both my, or all three of my siblings, I mean, there's got to be
things floating around up in there that I don't remember.
I mean, there's got to be, I'm telling you, like, I have a lot of recurring dreams about
being in that dark room surrounded by these entities.
You do?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
This holiday season, you might be looking for some delicious nutritional meals to fuel you on
those jam-packed days. Factor, America's number one ready-to-eat meal delivery service can help
you eat well for breakfast, lunch, and dinner with chef-prepared, dietitian-approved, ready-to-eat
meals delivered straight to your door. You'll save time and stay on track with your healthy
lifestyle while tackling all those holiday to-dos. You can cross meal prep off your holiday list
this season with Factor. Skip the planning, the grocery shopping, the cooking, chopping,
cleaning, and get Factor's fresh, never-frozen meals delivered straight to your door. Treat
yourself to high-quality, delicious meals over the holidays. Choose from 35-plus chef-crafted
meals every week that support a healthy lifestyle and meet your meal preferences,
whether it's calorie smart, vegan, and veggie, protein plus, and more wholesome options.
And Factor isn't just dinner. You can count on convenience any time of the day with an
assortment of 55-plus add-on to suit various preferences and tastes. Choose from quick breakfast
items, lunch to go, grab-and-go snacks, and ready-to-drink cold-pressed juices, shakes, and smoothies.
This December, get Factor and enjoy eating well without the hassle. Simply choose your meals and
enjoy fresh, flavor-packed meals delivered right to your door. Ready in just two minutes. No prep,
no mess. Head to factormeals.com forward slash djp50 and use the code djp50 to get 50% off.
That's code djp50 at factormeals.com forward slash djp50 for 50% off. It's linked below. Now,
back to the show. I was going to say that, like, before my dad had his initial regression,
he would scream in his sleep and he would get headaches so bad he would pass out when he tried
to remember what happened. And then he had the regression and it kind of, like, opened it up
to where he could remember things. And the suggestion with there was, like, going forward,
you know, you, it won't be blocked anymore. You can just, you'll remember it all consciously,
you know, you'll experience it consciously. And then what's important to note is when he
encountered the lady in 2012, it wasn't recalled through hypnosis. I mean, it was like 100%
a conscious experience. He was present for it. Right. And he said also, I think on the podcast
that it wasn't, it didn't feel like a dream. Right. It felt like it was, it was, it was,
he was wide awake. I mean, he was telling me about it, like, just days later, like in vivid detail,
like, I'm not talking, you know, oh, I can't remember. Like, no, no, no, he, he vividly
is present for all these experiences now. Now, it's crazy. You asked me just a little bit ago,
if I've had experiences on the level of my dad or whatever. No, I have seen entities,
but it's like a flash. It's like, it's not like dad where they stop and they say, what's up and
they show you the symbol on their chest and they're like, it's not like that. It's more so like,
it's more so like,
I see it and I lock eyes with it and then it's gone. Or like one, one of one time.
Like where?
And around the house in the, in the living room, in my bedroom, front yard, walking through the yard,
wherever it doesn't matter. It's happened on three or four occasions. There was one time where
this is one of those things that I want to recover, a memory, you know, because I know there has to
be more to it. When you see these entities, it's like, time clearly works so differently for them.
I mean, you just see them in the way they pop in and they shimmer and then they're gone. It's like,
I feel like there's something more to what happened. But I was sitting there with my friend and we
were, we were sitting like, it's like a 90 degree angle. Like you have the wall here and my back's
to this wall, his back's to that wall, but we have the same line of sight. You see? I know the
camera might not see it, but you see it. We're looking the same direction, but we're at an angle.
And we're just talking and something touched me and I'm like, what the hell? And I pull my shirt
up and I show him and I had a red mark where there was like a handprint on my ribs. Like literally
just like this sensation of, it was like magnetism, like, like warm electrical magnetism touched me.
It wasn't painful. It was actually kind of pleasant. And I saw the mark, I'm like, pleasant?
Yeah, like, I mean, not, not like good, but it wasn't painful. Like you would think, you know,
electricity would be, I can't describe it. It was like, not painful. It wasn't damaging. It was
just warm, but it felt like electricity. And I lifted my shirt, there's a mark, my friend's looking
at me. And then we both look in the corner and there's an entity standing there. Its head is
no higher than the doorknob. It looks exactly like the little one that my dad and my brother saw.
Big round head, big round eyes and its hands are like down by its side, but it's translucent and
it's shimmering. And then it just disappears poof. And my friend looks at me and he's like,
you just saw that too? I'm like, yeah. And it was crazy, you know. And there's a couple other
instances where it's been like that where I see it and then it's gone. There's one time where
something touched me on the shoulder from behind and I turned around and there was an orb,
like a, like kind of like a glowing orb. I didn't see the entity that time.
Where, what, that time when you felt it touch you and you looked behind you and it was a glowing
orb, where were you? Were you outside? Was it daytime, nighttime? I was just inside the house.
Just inside the house. In the kitchen. There was an orb right behind you. Uh-huh. It was in the
kitchen. Yeah. And then, well the kitchen and into the, like a, not a formal dining room,
but like a formal living room. It was like, it's weird. It's like the kitchen and the formal living
room were together. So I'm in the kitchen. I turn around and it's over in the other room, but it's
one big room. But, and then there's a couple other times, my sister and both all of my siblings,
we've all seen entities like that. But it's never like dad. With dad, they get out and they, they,
they have a message, you know? They have a whole, they have a whole thing. Could it be
because the regression? I don't know. I don't know. I really don't know. Going back to your
brother again, how, how often do you talk to him about all this stuff? Does, is he, is he kind of
like suppress it? Does he not like to talk about it? Does he like just to, like to forget about
it and move on or what, what's the deal? He used to be that way. Uh-huh. Yeah. The first time we
really had like an in-depth conversation about this stuff, other than the night that it, that I
first found out about it at 13 years old, it wasn't until I was 18 years old, five years later,
when I finally had the courage to ask Chris Jr. about it. Because the vibe was like, he didn't
want to talk about it. He didn't want anything to do with it. If it came up, he got really upset and
he would leave, you know, plus they put him on discovery and made him look bad. So he was just
done with it. And yeah, now, today, there's not a day that goes by that he doesn't wear this hat.
Really? Yep. He's my biggest ally. He's my biggest fan, my biggest supporter. He actually,
it's so funny, man. I had to sign documents because my brother is so gutsy. He gets on with
the history channel, uh, Beyond Skinwalker Ranch, right? And they're like all sponsored by Carhart.
So like, we all got to wear Carhart gear. I actually did film with them. It didn't make the
cut, but I did a whole segment with them. And, um, I had this jacket that had to be taped over
because it wasn't Carhart. But my brother, Chris Jr. said, I'm not taking off this hat. I'm gonna
wear this hat. That's all? That's it. It's just how it's gonna be. Yeah. And they made me sign
appearance releases, you know, and then did they put it in there? Oh, it was blurred. It was blurred.
Yeah. But I thought it was funny, man. It's like, I mean, it's, it's, it's a step, right?
It's a step in the direction to get your, your symbol on TV, even if it's blurry.
Well, you would think like, like, your brother was there the day this all kicked off with your dad,
like, experienced that first, that first day, that first night with your dad. You would think
that he is just as tapped into this as your dad is. Does he still see this stuff as much as your
dad does? Oh, he's very much tapped in now. Really? Yeah. That's what I was trying to get to.
Is like, did he ever have any of these other paranormal experiences or did he ever witness
the lady? No, not, not the lady. No, not only very few people have. I have it. My dad has
his niece, my cousin, her daughter, because, because they were our next door neighbors living
with our grandma at the time, my grandpa had passed. But they were like walking over to our
house for some reason while we were all out of town. And they saw her in the yard. She just kind
of zoomed up and zoomed away. She was like floating. She didn't say nothing? The lady? That time?
No, she didn't say anything. But it's actually funny because my dad had a voicemail from my cousin
freaking out. Oh my God, Uncle Chris, Uncle Chris, I saw this, this lady with blonde hair and blue
eyes. She was floating. She had a white dress. She was glowing. And I mean, that's not verbatim,
but it's, you know, the nut in the shell of how she was freaking out. And yeah, no, Chris Jr.
actually has a unique ability in our family. He's the one that the orbs tend to come around in the
daytime, like more than anyone. Dad makes special mention of that to me all the time. He was like,
Chris Jr. has got a gift. They show up around him in the daytime. He's constantly, you know,
in our family group chat where we get orbs, I might see him somewhere and do a video or dad,
you know, he's always getting videos and he'll post them. Chris Jr. will send us orbs in the
daytime. Whoa. Yeah. What's the closest you've ever seen one come? Me? Yeah.
Feet, like me and you, maybe a little, maybe more like the wall. Really? Yeah. Yeah, like right over
my head. Like that night that I was out there with your dad a couple of times there, I was like
the shooting star above our heads, like not maybe like a hundred feet above us or something like
that. It looked like a shooting star. It didn't look like an orb, right? But I never saw something
like just like floating around and moving back close at least. Yeah. I've seen that quite a
few times. And like I said, you know, entities like really close, like super close, you know,
touch you and then poof and magic drink disappear.
That's so wild, man. Yeah. And like another thing I don't really understand is the whole
paranormal aspect to it. So there's a lot of different paranormal things that have happened
inside your house that your dad or your mom talks about specifically. And I think your sister said
that she experienced it too. If these things like, if these things are good, why are they coming
across like in these terrifying forms, like shadow figures or deep voices that are like,
it's, it seems like it's terrifying. Yeah, it does. But again, it's like funny in the Bible,
for example. Anytime an angel appears, what's to say? Be not afraid. Right? I think that there is a
quality to nature that is unfathomable, that we don't understand. But that does not equal evil
or not good. It's like this great example that I've heard about nature is when a tree drops all
the acorns, you know, and some acorns are just not going to make it in the cycle of life. They're
going to be snuffed out and they're not going to get to bloom into a tree. And it's just the way
that it is. It doesn't mean that nature's evil. It doesn't mean that nature's cruel. It just means
that there's an order to it that we don't quite understand. And I think that that applies to
the beings, you know, it's like when you see a shark, it's my biggest fear. I see, I just see a
shark and it makes me feel weird. Really? Yeah, I don't like sharks, man. And there's just some
things you see and it gives you a gut reaction. But it doesn't mean it's evil. It's just a part
of nature and it exists in its hierarchy and it is what it is, you know? But we just don't understand
these beings. Anything we don't understand is going to be scary. But I can tell you their actions
are very positive. I mean, it's in Dad's book. I know he, so Dad is very humble about these things
and he's never going to go into great detail about these things. But I feel like, you know,
he's my dad, so I just want to talk about the cool shit he's done. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what I
mean? Of course. But like, there have been quite a few people who have come around and have experienced
these entities. You call them whatever you want, beings, orbs, whatever. And miracles have occurred.
Cancer. Yeah, he's talked, we talked, I read that in the book and we talked a little bit about it
at the end of the podcast. There's quite a few of those scenarios where, and again, it's like,
does Dad have healing abilities? I don't think it's like that. I think everybody has healing
abilities. And I think it's like, the reason it happens so much around Dad is because he
asks the beings. He gives it to them. He believes it's them. He completely,
never once in my entire life has Dad ever looked at me and said, I healed someone. I have
a healing ability. Never. He will never say that. He believes everything ever weird that's ever
happened around him, or to him, or from him is 100% the beings. It's exactly like what I said
in the beginning of the episode. I think what's important is we humble ourselves to the higher
forces. We understand that there are things outside of us. Maybe they look scary. Maybe we
don't understand them, but they're healing cancers and healing strokes and all kinds of other amazing
things happening all around us. So much so that people from the CIA, from the NASA, the space
industry, DOD, all these intelligence agencies are knocking on our door and saying, hey,
what's going on here? It doesn't just happen all the time.
What's going on here? What was that like when you were, how old were you when that first happened?
It's funny because I'm actually the first one in the house who met anybody from NASA,
because Dad was a way at work and I was home playing Fallout 3 or something this summer.
I distinctly remember, yeah, I was home. It was summer, so I was just home during the day.
I'm only 15 years old. I don't have a job, so I'm just playing games, right?
Yeah, there's a ring at the door and it's Hal Poppinmeyer. I know they talked about him quite
a bit on your last session, but it was me who answered the door. I just remember being like,
oh, here we go, because the documentary had already been filmed. I don't think it aired yet.
We're having all these experiences. So I'm like, mom, NASA's here. Seriously, seriously.
Call Dad and I'm like, Dad, there's somebody from NASA here and he's like, just entertain him
till I get home and the rest is history. But this guy drove, hopped in the car,
drove 12 hours from Cape Canaveral just for a chat. And he was in our lives until the day he
died, which I actually just listened to the episode. So I know he told that story, how he
fell in his head and he had the coma, same guy. How? Yeah, yeah. But until that day, he was
intimately in our lives until he died. That day, Hal showed up. How old were you?
15, maybe 16. Do you remember specifically what he was saying and what he was
asking and why did he tell you he was there and how did he find out about you?
Yeah. So the funniest part is, and Dad would never tell this detail because he wasn't there,
I was the one to answer the door. And I suspect he did this on purpose because he was a covert
kind of individual. I think the idea was kind of look dumber than you are, you know, kind of put
on a little bit of an act. And he was a little bit of a joker. He was really funny because he
constantly would just crank out jokes and they weren't like good ones either. He clearly had a
persona, it was an act I've come to understand. And he was a genius, but he kind of acted a
little bit clueless. It was funny as fuck, man. And he opens, he rings door and I answer and he
says, hello. Is this the residence of Chris Belzo? And I said, do you mean Bledzo? He said,
yeah, yeah, Chris Belzo. And he's acting like he's looking at his paper like he's trying to read the
name. And I'm like, yes. And he shows me his lapel and it's NASA. And he's like, well, I'm with the
press corps for NASA. I drove 12 hours from Cape Canaveral. I really was just hoping to have a
conversation with your dad. I just wanted to ask some questions and, you know, just things like
that. And I don't remember in that moment what we talked about, but I know over the next many years
what we talked about of until he died. I do know that he was an ex. At some point, he was a CIA
analyst. Really? Oh, yeah, dude, a lot of these people are double-dipping. He was CIA and NASA?
Yeah, at one point, something he told my dad before he passed away. It was kind of like a
confession. Like, I don't have much longer. I want to tell you a little bit more about me before
I'm gone kind of thing, you know? But he's a very cool guy. He was hilarious. He was so intelligent
that he had three PhDs by the time he was like a teenager. Can you look him up, Steve? We could
pull up his Wikipedia and look at him. Show some people what this guy looks like. He was a really
cool guy. He's one of the very first people at NASA. I mean, he was like, he was intern for
Warner Von Braun. Really? Yeah. Yeah, that's him. Click his obituary where you might see us in it.
You might. Oh, wow. I know we were in his video and he was a very kind soul.
You want to play his video? I swear we're in it. I could be remembering wrong, but I feel like I
just recently watched it. And we don't have, there's no audio here. Oh, yeah. That's okay,
I haven't routed it yet. That's okay. We can look at it. He was a funny dude. He was so intelligent.
1939, he was born. Holy smokes. Yeah, he was like, he was like one of the young interns when
Warner Von Braun was, he would be like in the same room as him. That's how far back he goes.
And then there's this individual named. Pull up his Wikipedia or something we can read about his
his history at NASA or like what he did, what his accomplishments were.
Does he have a, does he have a Wikipedia? That book UFOs and alien abduction phenomenon were in it.
Is that his book? Uh-huh. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, we're actually in it. There's no like, there's no like
official sort of. Meaning of minor planet names, meteoroid. Well, I can look up and we can see
picture of them at least. Yeah, that's him. That's young how? Yeah. So he was a, um, yeah,
there's nothing like, there's nothing legit here that I swear we're, you got to skip through the
obituary, man, because I, I feel like we're in it. I could have sworn we are. I want to read,
I want to read some stuff, look about like what he did. Well, yeah. So do you, do you know Project
Blue Book? Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. He was like the right hand man of that.
Alan Jay. Really? Yeah. He worked with Heineck? Yeah, he was like his protege. Oh, wow. He was the
guy that dropped in and did the debunking. So he shows up to our door, door, you know,
act of reading. Is Chris Belzo here? He's, he's, he's playing us, you know. But
over time. He was fishing for, for information, trying to get, trying to figure you guys out.
Exactly. Fishing for holes and he couldn't find them. So, okay. So he was there specifically
to figure out if you guys were full of shit or not. Exactly. Right. Yeah. He was the guy
they dropped in to find the holes in the story. And, um, so he said, okay. So you said he was
visiting you guys for years after that? Until the day, actually the day he died,
he was supposed to be driving to our house to spend Thanksgiving with us. And he didn't show up and
we're like, oh, well, you know, something must have come up. And then the next day we get a
call from his wife, Katie, and she said, basically he fell and hit his head and he was in a coma.
But he was like, we were expecting him at our house, you know? So, and that's-
What did he say to you about this whole phenomenon?
Well, he said more to my dad than he said to me. I mean, you know, I was, I was younger. I think he,
he led a lot more out to dad, but he knew it was spiritual. He indicated to my dad that it may be
his family, the beings, the entities, you know? Now, here is something that I find particularly
wild, but in about 2008 or 2009, I would have been like 15 or 16 years old.
Something he said to me and my family that for many years I've been paying attention to in my mind
is that by the year 2025, the disclosure rollout would be on the table.
All those years ago, 2008 or 2009, he said the government's disclosure plan is going to be
out on the table by 2025. And we're going to, this is what he's saying. He said,
and we're going to do it through soft disclosure, meaning there's going to be like a steady drip
of information so as to not shock people. It's going to be like little bits of information
coming out over a long span of time, but you know, that, that we should know pretty much
the majority of everything by 2025. He told me that when I was a kid.
What do you think the disclosure is going to look like? Like, do you think that
if there is government disclosure about this stuff, it's going to be 100% accurate?
No, actually the opposite.
How so?
I think it's going to be more or less
fear-based, more or less, you know, militarized. You're seeing it now. They're jamming our
space. They're jamming our radars. You've got congressional hearings where they're coming out
and they're, you know, they're saying, I have a classified dossier that was handed to me by a
superior and I've heard stories of people getting harmed and, you know, you've got like
Mexican Congress coming out with a body saying there's eggs in it and you've got all the stuff.
It's building this, this, it's building this fantastic sci-fi story, right? But I think at the
end of-
You think it's fear-based?
Yeah, I think the general picture is to create this narrative that we are all tiny specs of
pretty much nothing and that there's no hope. There's no
any inkling of spiritual evolution. And why do I think that? It's because it's what the lady
told to my dad. It's in the book. It's in the regression. It's in, it's what she said. I mean,
it's the, it's the message. She said that they are going, there is a force. She didn't say who.
She said that there are people at the helm of humanity. She didn't say the Illuminati.
She didn't say the Bilderberger. She didn't give a name, right? She just said there is a dark force.
A dark force at the helm of humanity.
At the tippy top, yep, controlling humanity. There's a dark force. And they are using
biblical scripture, namely the book of revelations, to sort of script events on a global stage
to manifest the cataclysm and that there would be a great deception. That this deception would be
basically to paint the phenomenon in a negative light.
It's, it's... Who, who is this dark force? Are these human beings?
Yeah, that's, that's, I mean, are they? I don't know. Maybe it's an Igor.
A what?
An Igor, the concept that like, you know, it's like the devil. It's like if enough people believe
in something, it gives it power. It's like, you know, enough people believe in a specific concept.
Oh, there you go. Yeah, perfect. Wow, you're awesome.
Igor, that's the first time I've ever heard that word. An Igor is an esoteric concept that
refers to a non-physical entity that is created by a group of people. The term comes from the
ancient Greek word, Igoris, which means wakeful. Yeah, it's like, it's like the devil. Like,
is there really a force that can impose God? Keep scrolling, keep scrolling. I love this. What is
this? I don't think so. Scroll up a little bit more, Steve, to the, where there was some photos on the
top right. Yeah, click that, picture the brain. What is that? So this is like a hive mind type
thing? Yeah, it's just, it's, it's, it's like, it's as simple as this. It's thought forms. Thought
forms are made up. Oh, thought. Okay. But these forms are made up of the thoughts, ideas, and
feelings that the group inadvertently sends out through their collective group mind or collective
consciousness. It is hard to create one on purpose because they are often unintentional. Interesting.
The mind is a very powerful thing. And I think if enough people believe in something,
it more or less can become true, you know? Yeah, 100%. And, you know, if enough people
believe that the phenomenon is so negative and so scary, and so warlike and they're jamming our radar
and they're mutilating cattle and all this stuff that they're telling us that's going on through
these official quote channels, it's spreading this very dark, fear-like narrative, you know?
And that's, that's kind of like, it's like, and I don't know how to get the words out,
I'm trying to find the words, but it's like a spiritual war, honestly. Like the whole,
the phenomenon thing. I mean, I'm a spiritual war. Thank you for titling this episode.
Spiritual war. Okay, sure. Yeah. That would have taken me like at least three days to come up with.
Awesome. We're egregores. Egregores and spiritual wars. Hey, you said you wanted some esoteric
concepts. Yeah. So there you go. Egregore this one. I love that. I gotta pee real quick. Sorry
to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso. We all know how important
it is to get the right amount of nutrition, exercise, and sleep as we age. It's something
I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length with doctors and nutritional scientists
on this podcast. That is why I use Verso. Verso is a company dedicated into translating
scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels with powerful
ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol, and TMG. NAD plus is arguably one of the most
powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age. Keeping NAD plus levels high helps
guide longevity genes called sirtuins. Sirtuins are called longevity genes because by activating
them, they support overall health and slow down aging related effects by regulating important
processes inside of cells. High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damage DNA,
and ramp up energy production in your brain, immune system, and muscles. Now you can't take
NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb, but NMN directly converts
to NAD plus while resveratrol activates your sirtuins, which increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN on its
own. Verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
danny, it's spelled d-a-n-n-y, to save 15% off your entire order or just go to ver.so
forward slash danny. Back to the show.
Did you search Harold or Hal? Harold? Try Hal. I got the profile of a tectite researcher.
He was the world's expert on tectites. On who? Tectites, they're like this
special kind of meteorite. They're like glass meteorites. Oh, really? He was literally like the
authority on them. He also mapped the moon, didn't he? Yeah. No, that was not what did I click on that.
I don't know. Okay. If he knows why, I do what. There we go. Profile of a tectite researcher.
I've been tectite hunting with him. Really? Can you zoom in a little bit?
Hal Pavenmire is a tectite researcher from Ohio. Wow. In July 2000, the main belt
asteroid 12753, which was discovered by Gene and Carolyn Shoemaker on April 18, 1993, was named
in honor of Hal and Katie Pavenmire for their many contributions to the international occultation
time. Occultation. Occultation Timing Association, IOTA,
and their studies of work in the field of meteors and meteorites. He is the author of
fireballs, meteors and meteorites, tectites, cosmic paradox, Gray's Observer's Handbook,
and also published over 190 scientific articles. Holy crap. Yeah, it was speculated this is not
anything I know. Don't take this to the bank. Okay. Keep scrolling. Okay. This is just something
that was implied as a possibility, but if there ever was such an office as Majestic 12, he would be
somebody who probably was. Some of his engineering work still sits on the sea of tranquility from
the Apollo 11 mission. Wow. Yeah, that's what Chris was talking about. Yep. Oh, yeah. Your dad said
that he mapped the moon for the moon landing mission so they could figure out the perfect
place to land. Yeah. It was genius. He was so intelligent that he had to take medications to
slow his brain down. Really? Yeah. To slow it down? God damn, I can't find enough medications to
speed mine up. There's a lot of, when you start talking aerospace industry, you get a lot of
very smart people. Yeah, so a lot of Brainiacs. We're talking about genius mathematicians and
astronomers and physicists and stuff. Although all planetary scientists are in agreement that
tectites originated within the Earth-Moon system, there are two major theories as to their origin.
The most popular, simplest, and widely accepted is the day is that they are the result of a
terrestrial impact caused by a comet or asteroid throwing material out into space
and re-entering as tectites. Interesting. Oh, that's cool. There's a lot of mythology about
tectites. They're also commonly known as moldivite. It's like a crystal if you're into such a thing.
And yeah, I love studying myths. I don't care what it is. Holy grail, the wishing stone,
whatever, Buddha, I don't care. And there's a lot of really cool, interesting mythology about
moldivite potentially being one of the stones on the holy grail or...
Moldivite? Uh-huh. It's like the mineral name, I believe, of tectite.
Oh, really? Yeah. Or it's a kind of tectite, rather.
Wow. Dude, this guy sounds like he was fascinating.
He was. He was cool. Like I said, again, it's like you can't take this. I don't know this for a
fact. It was implied to me that he may have been a majestic 12.
What's that? It's like the original people who basically ran the covert UFO program.
The majestic 12? Yeah. It's an idea. Again.
Who are some of the other people that were part of that?
I don't know. Oh, nobody knows.
I don't even know if he was. It was indicated. But when you're talking in these covert,
I mean, dude, I've been around people in the CIA and NASA and all these other
agencies since I was like 15. I mean, you meet so many people and this one says this one and,
you know, it's like, I don't know. So, okay. So, who is the one that originally
claimed that there was this shadowy sort of force at the top of society that wants to
stall fear through this disclosure process? The lady. The lady.
The entity. Yes. She said it's a dark force.
Now, whoever might be in charge of this disclosure, say there is some sort of government
disclosure in the process right now, right, that's going to come out in the next few years,
like looking back to 2014 when they started releasing those Navy videos and everything
like that. 2017. That was 2017? Yeah.
Okay. Anyways, so if that was like the just dipping the toe in and saying like,
we're going to do this over the next 10 years,
who specifically would be behind that? And obviously, there are people around you guys who
you guys are talking to in intelligence or in the Department of Defense or in NASA,
wherever it might be, all these crazy agencies who are openly talking to you that this is not
the case. This is not reality. So, there's obviously a split in government, right? Like
there's a divide. Yeah. Yeah. Multiple divides actually.
Do they acknowledge that to you? Oh, yeah. Yeah.
And so, who did they say are the people who want to paint some sort of false
dystopian fearful narrative? It depends who you ask. If they're in the CIA, they might say it's
NASA. If it's somebody's NASA, they might say it's, you know, it's, if it's somebody in the
Air Force, they might say it's somebody in the Navy. You don't really get a straight answer. It
just depends who you're talking to. You see what I'm saying? Oh, yeah. You know, I'm in the Air
Force, but they're in the Navy. They're the bad guys. It's like there's splits within these
factions. Well, you have CIA, but my CIA group is the good one, but they're a group is not the
good one. There's compartmentalized fractures within these intelligence communities. And then
you have groups like the Invisible College who are like, well, we have all these answers and we
know it's spiritual, but we don't think people deserve to hear it, you know? And then you have
other groups that are like, we don't know how to tell it, but we want it to get out there,
you know? Meaning like the entities, the beings, whatever, they want the truth of it out, but
they're like, how do we do it? And then you have others who have bot armies and trolls and they do
like cyber stalking and harassing. Yeah, we just learned all about bot armies a couple weeks ago.
Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah, it's a thing. And you have those factions who are like silence any sort
of conversation about this that gets too close, you know, push all the conversation about,
you know, whatever popular alien theory is being run now, like you've got Pleiadians and Arcturians
and all this, you know, all that's okay. But then like, you know, harass the people and troll the
people that are like kind of close to the real thing. Had a couple of death threats, things like
that. It's complicated, man. Like when you're in the intelligence world, it's very gray. It's not
like you see on TV where it's like, we all are loyal to the same mission. Well, not really,
you know, because you know, when you're talking like CIA or some compartmentalized intelligence
program, they sometimes it could be because of blackmail they have on foreign nationals or,
you know, international people, leaders, whatever, whatever thing, whatever information they have
could could make some of these people untouchable and they could do whatever they want and they
can get away with whatever they want and they're more or less above the law. So some of these
people are rogues and they just do whatever they want, harass whoever they want. They don't care.
I've experienced that. Are some of these people that are involved in this? Are they like private
commercial aerospace people or are they all in government? Do you get any people from like
Lockheed Martin or any of those aerospace contractors? Yes, actually. I was asking my
buddy the other day, I was wondering like, do you hear the stories about men in black?
I wonder if the quote, men in black, huge air quotes there, if those are actually like government
agency people or if they are private contractor people, like contractors, like like aerospace
contractors, do they send people out there? Because they're those guys obviously like what's
going on right now in the news is everything about these aerospace contractors keeping stuff
secret and all these black budgets and everything like that. I'm wondering if they are the ones
that are trying to intimidate and strong arm people and to stand quiet. I mean, I couldn't
know for sure. I have met more like in the way you described, like I've met more people from
these government agencies than I have met private contractors. Although ironically, just two or
three days ago, I was hanging out with a very sweet guy from JPL and he's a very nice guy. Yeah,
I can tell you about it later. Oh, I think your dad was telling me about that. Yeah, I went and
visited. And I do want to reiterate, I'm not saying that all these people are bad. I'm not
saying that. I'm saying some are, some are good. There's no black and white. There's no rulebook
here for dealing with the intelligence world. It's nothing like you see on the movies, man.
We think the men in black shows up with the sunshades and the suits and the ties,
they're really nerds with khakis and polos. Really? Yeah. I just told you 15 years old,
plan fallout, knock on the door and it's NASA. That was how? Yeah, aerospace industry coming
to question me and my family about UFOs. I mean, come on, like if there's ever a real men in black,
I mean, I lived it. Right. I've met people who don't exist. Right, but I'm talking about like the
people that try to just to intimidate you. Because your dad also mentioned that in his book, that
there was people out there that like tried to intimidate you guys or scare at least your dad
or your mom or someone. There was some sketchy shit that went down. Yeah, I didn't know. Did
you say that on there? No, I think it was in the book. Oh, that did happen. We definitely talked
about it on there, but did I not hear it in the book? I'm not sure. I'm not sure what I should
or could say there. Maybe it was over dinner. I don't know. It could have been, but yes,
you are correct. And that's the whole point is that it was not private content. It was people
from an agency. And yeah, I don't like to give too much attention to that part of it,
but it was basically like we could blow your brains out if you don't tell a story the way we want
you to. And then an orb appeared, scared the dude away and he never came back. See ya. Oh my god.
Yep. Yep. It appeared right behind him. He was on our property. Orb appeared and never heard
from him again. Wow. So, you know, it's like I don't really care to give those kinds of people
attention. You know, I don't really think too much about him. What other kind of people showed up
at your house besides how? You name an agency, Homeland Security, DIA, NRO. Dad told you about
that one. Yeah, he told me all about the NRO. Yeah, Air Force Intelligence, Army Intelligence,
Naval Intelligence. I think I already said CIA, obviously. I've met people from FBI. I've met
virtually- They all just knock on your door unannounced?
No, that's only happened. Unannounced only a few times. A lot of times it's like,
hey, I'm coming through the area. Can I stop by? Sure. Come on. Or, you know, get our number.
Hey, so-and-so. Introduce me to this guy who told me to get in touch with you. You know, it's not
always unannounced. That was more or less a few times. But no, mostly it's just like, hey,
you know, we'd love to come visit. Yeah. Okay, come on. Come on in. You know,
Southern Hospitality. You want coffee? You want tea? What do you want? Yeah. Yeah. You know,
what do you do when the CIA is knocking on your door? You're gonna say no and slam the door?
Were you at the house when that guy Tim showed up? Uh-huh. Really? Yep. It was in my bedroom where
yeah, I helped him with the metal. Do you remember that story? Where he put the metals?
Yeah, I put it in both hands. Yeah, I was the one who helped him do that whole thing,
where it was like one person at a time started with me, I held the metals first,
and he explained to me, he had these charts where it was like basically showing that the
isotopes of these metals were not from Earth. He was implying to me that this material did not
come from Earth, it comes from somewhere very far away, and it's organic. He said it's alive,
like it's some sort of living sentient material, and he just explained how he was able to
sort of like replicate this material, and he made like billion dollar patents being able to
replicate this material by. Really? Yeah. The very cutting edge experimental technologies,
like hip replacement, bone replacement type stuff, because it's organic, right? So he figured out how
to not reject the bone material. It's like if you just put a metal implant in your hip, your body's
going to reject it. He figured out how to make it merge, because it was organic, and he figured
out you take, I can't remember what the material was, I mean I'm not a scientist, you know,
and he explained this to me quite a while ago, but it was like you create it in zero gravity
conditions, and it creates some new bond, or I don't know. He explained all this to you. Yeah,
but I'm not a scientist, you know what I mean? So I didn't, I don't know how to convey it properly,
but yeah, so he put it in my hand, and he was like just kind of pay attention, you know,
tell me if you notice anything, anything. If you notice any sensations, or any feelings,
or thoughts, I was like okay, he put the other piece of my other hand, and it felt like static
going through me, like whoa, but it wasn't painful, it was again, it was like when the entity touched
me, it was pleasant, and I felt this energy, and I'm like oh my god, I feel electricity,
and he goes okay, let's get the next one, and we went, you know, my brothers, my sister,
my mom, and then my dad, in whatever order, but we did dad last, and then you heard the story
with dad, it was so powerful, I mean I sat right there, and I watched the muscles in his arms
were convulsing, I mean this energy was so prevalent from this material, he was shaking,
and his vision blacked out, and it was basically described to us that this material is, it's like
quasi-crystal, and I don't really know what that means, but that's why we got Steve,
Steve will pull it up, but he basically said that the fact that we had a reaction from this
material in the first place was evidence to him, it was a way for these covert programs to,
you know, you say you're seeing an entity, and then you touch this stuff, and you feel nothing
whatsoever, you're lying, really, so it's like a lie detector test, well no, it's more so like
it's reacting with your energy, because you've been in the presence of an interdimensional
entity, you see what I'm saying, like that's what he told us, like if you have some sort of
vibration going on inside, yes, yes, because you've been altered, because you've been in the
presence of an interdimensional entity, so he knew that we were telling the truth, because we
all felt this energy, and ironically, I had just started dating my wife at the time,
she happened to be there, she didn't feel a single thing, she didn't feel anything from the metals,
my mother did, all of my siblings and my father, all of your siblings, yeah, and then my wife too,
I was like, I don't care, you know, people come around to my house to ask to see, I don't care
who you are, you're in my house, and I'm kind of, you know, I'm kind of like, did she do it,
you know, let get her in here, I didn't care about, you know, being secreted, whatever.
Did Tim show you guys anything that was like super confidential that you're not allowed to talk about?
I mean, yeah, but really it wasn't a big deal, it was pictures area 51, I mean, it was a big deal,
it was, but it wasn't like, he didn't show me alien bodies or anything like that, it was just
pictures of area 51, and you know, it's like basically indicating to us that there is a facility
where this kind of study goes on, but the main thing that-
I think it still goes on there, I think they moved it all.
Area 51?
Yeah, like all the crazy studies.
I have no idea, like he didn't show us anything that was like-
Mind-blowing.
Well, no, I guess what I'm trying to say is like he had an air of plausible deniability,
like he showed us photos of the facility, but he didn't show us any of the like,
you know, he didn't show me a craft or anything like that, and I mean, it was pretty like towing
the line of what, you know, if I was a dude in a covert program, what would I, how far to the
line could I get? Well, he got as close to that line as possible, and he told us he was going to do
it. He said, I have a box, all right, and at the very edge of this box is how far I can go and what
I can show you, you know, classified information, things like that. I'm going to get right here
to the edge, and I'm not going to pass it. So he showed us pictures of Area 51, he showed us
his badges of Area 51, he had like actual laminates, CIA, NASA, Air Force, and Area 51 laminates,
like clearance passes, like click, let me in the door. He showed us that, and he basically told
us that, you know, this was a very serious subject matter. It was the most classified subject. We
are very seriously regarded in these intelligence communities. He said that if we had been talking
just six years prior about our experiences and going public, that we would have probably been shot
and killed, but that the times had changed and that they were loosening the protocol and how to
deal with people. He basically said, we have other ways of ruining your life. We don't, we don't
have to shoot and kill you anymore. We can just, we can do whatever we want, you know, and he was
like, you know, we don't necessarily want you going public. Don't want you going on Facebook and
talking and spreading this, you know, anywhere or anything like that. And if you do it,
doesn't matter because everyone will think you're crazy and they won't believe you anyway.
Right, that's true. Well, and you guys did go public with it. Absolutely. What did he say about
that? Nothing. Nothing. Is anybody trying to fuck with you for going public? Did anybody ever,
when you initially went public, did anyone try to fuck with you?
Yeah, I mean, it's like, it's hard to say. It's like, yeah, I mean,
And why wouldn't they want you to go public with it?
Because again, it's like, there's a narrative, right? There are so many...
But if it's spiritual, what does it matter? Like, it's not good. Like, why do they care?
Honestly, like, it's a complicated question, you know, it's because
my take on that is, this may sound like it's out of left field, but it's about awakening,
right? It's about the awakening of humanity. I mean, what does that mean? Well, right now,
we're asleep. We don't really know what's going on. We don't know the nature of things. We don't
know the reality of things, right? To awaken means when we all kind of like expand our idea of things
and realize there's something more than just this, you know, there are other beings out there
and other realities. There are energies and forces and other realities that are always
all around us, which again, brings us back to the Christ consciousness thing. It brings us back
to the light thing, because if there are other dimensions and other forces, then, you know,
we got to be more mindful of our thoughts and our intentions and our feelings and how we project,
you know, it's like, there's more to us than just physical action.
There's mental action. There's spiritual intent, things of that nature. It's the kind of stuff
the beings talk about, but awakening is when we realize there's more to this than just
material life that we have, we have abilities. I mean, you know about the remote viewing stuff,
right? You're aware of all that. We can all do that. We can all, we all have some degree of
psychokinesis or, what's it called, extrasensory perception. We all have this. We all have these
abilities. It's just in order to access something, you have to be aware of it, right? You have to
be aware that you have these abilities. You have to be aware that you are a higher consciousness.
That's what Diana talks about in her, Diana Pesulka talks about in her new book.
When I read that, she was going deep into how, I don't think she, I don't think she gave up
his name in the new book yet. Maybe she did, but she keeps Tim pseudonymous in both of her books,
I believe, and she talks about how Tim has some sort of like daily ritual protocol he does to
keep himself in tune with this extrasensory thing, whatever it is. Like if his, if we are some sort
of biological antenna that can access some sort of doorway to extra perception, he has a thing he
does every morning where he drinks water and meditates and whatever. No coffee is part of his
protocol. That was part of it. No coffee. No coffee, yeah. Sunlight. Nobody told my dad? No. Get into
Kundalini yoga. Really? Yeah. Kundalini yoga. They're very esoteric in NASA and CIA, man,
and that's a rabbit hole in and of itself. But I want to stress, I do not want to say
that all of these people in these agencies are bad. They're not. Some of them have been really good.
Of course not. Some of them have written blurbs in my dad's book,
saying he's telling the truth. Please listen. Yeah, and John. Alexander. Oh, John Alexander.
And some of them, and Hal, he may have debunked us at first, tried to. Hal did?
He tried to. Yeah, yeah. He may have tried to. They do have a job.
But at the end of the day, some of these people have been very kind and very generous in trying to
ensure that we feel heard and feel understood. It's like not all of these people in these programs
are bad. I do believe it tends to be like Stranger Things season four. This is my favorite example
where you have this whole. Yeah, I was, yeah. You have this scenario where like 11 losers are
mojo and you got one element of the government trying to kill her and then you got the other
element trying to like get her mojo back and put her out there to do her thing. It's like that.
It's like some of them are bad. Some of them are good. It's the way it is, you know. But you asked,
why don't they want this out if it's a spiritual thing? Because those bad elements, whoever they are,
tend to be more powerful and have more reach, right? They don't want us to awaken. No, they want to
keep us. Yeah, they want to keep us asleep on our daily routines. They want us waking up. They want
us dumb and sick and hooked into the pharmaceutical culture. Yeah, watching TV, eating the crappy food,
just doing everything we can to be sick and dumb and as low vibrational as possible. They don't
want us to awaken. Why would they want that? Yeah, no, it makes sense. I just wonder why
these people like Tim and people close to you who are showing this to you are telling you not to
say anything publicly. It just boggles my mind. Maybe because it's real. Yeah, but if they're
not a part of that negative force, why do they want to keep it a secret? I don't know if he is
or isn't. I don't know. They never told me. I don't know. I just know by based on people's actions
and if they've helped us or not. I'm not here to say this one's good, this one's bad. I just
know that there have been a few. I will say Jim Simivan, CIA, his title is a directorate of
clandestine affairs. Yeah, pull up Jim Simivan's bio on there. This guy never ever,
as he said, don't go speak publicly. Don't go tell your story. It's actually been the opposite.
You need to write a book. You need to go tell your story. You need to talk. There are some people
in the government who truly, despite how they may look or how they may appear, who they know or
whatever, it doesn't matter. All I know is how they've been to us and you need to go shot your
story at the rooftop. It's time to tell it. Forget what all these haters say. It doesn't matter. Go
tell your story. He's one of them. Hal is one of them. Colonel Alexander, one of them. Go tell your
story. Go tell your story. I don't know. That's pretty... I can't say who's good or bad. I'm just
telling you what happened. I'm telling you the facts of how the cars have fallen. That's my
experience. This whole protocol of trying to tune your body into this extra sense or whatever it
might be. Isn't that getting into the idea of Roche-Crucianism? I think I saw that. Did I say
it right? Roze-Crucians. Yeah. More or less, yeah. It seems like that might be something that
you may not want to do. Being tapped into this as fantastic as it sounds and as crazy as your dad's
story is, it could be something that would be too much for a lot of people. Being able to witness
some of this stuff or being tapped into something that you aren't ready for. Yeah. But on the other
hand, it's like... How much have you looked into Roche-Crucianism? Quite a bit. Yeah. I love it.
Okay. Here's... What is this? Simivans bio? There we go. No. It's a... Okay. So here's an official
publisher. Jim retired. Okay. He retired in 2007 after 25-year career in Central Intelligence
Agency's National Claim Destin Service. Yeah. My friend, Mad Dog, Jim Lawler, was telling me about him
saying that they worked together at the same time. At this time, at the time of his retirement,
he was a member of the CIA's Senior Intelligence Service. Jim served multiple overseas and domestic
tours along with senior management positions in the CIA headquarters. He is the recipient of
the agency's Career Intelligence Medal. Dude, he like wrote the handbook of following protocol.
Yeah. Literally. Yeah. So he's a part of... That To The Stars thing? Yeah. Yeah. He would be in our
yard taking calls from Tom when they were starting it up. It was the funniest thing. What was the
deal with... I don't want to get too off track, but what was the deal with the whole To The Stars
thing? I don't know. I don't know that much. Yeah. I don't know either. The only one of them that I
ever met personally was Jim. Yeah. And you know, I want to stress. I can't vouch for what other
people say and think and believe. All I can vouch for is how they've treated us. Right? So I don't
know. You asked, are there good ones or the bad ones or this, that or the other. Yeah. Those are
the few that have always been like, go. Keep telling your story. Keep telling your story. But yeah,
Rosa Crucians, that's an interesting subject. So do you've got steam in you? Got what? You got some
steam in you to hit another tangent real quick on Rosa Crucians? Oh hell yeah. You're funny. I've
got all the steam. I've got steam all day, baby. Let's do it. This is going to be a shift. Okay.
So, okay. So here I am, 18 years old. My dad sees the lady, right? At this time, I'm like,
like we discussed earlier in the episode, you know, I'm like, I'm open-minded to what's out there.
I'm like knowing that there's not, it's not all contained in the Bible, but I still feel that
attachment. Like I'm not really ready to look at other things yet. I don't know how to explain it.
Like I still was kind of sucked into that one track train of thought, that one track being
Christianity. Right? So my dad comes home one day or rather I come home, right? Because I'm at
college and I'm talking to my dad and he starts telling me, son, I saw this lady and, you know,
grazing over the details because I talked about some of the things she said already, but grazing
over that just, you know, how he first told it to me. He said, I saw this lady and she said this,
that and the other. And she said that she goes by Hathor, but that throughout time and across
many cultures, she was known by many names. And she, you know, she had the dress, she had the,
it glowed, like twinkled like the stars. It's like this white gown that it was like it had stars
all over it, right? Well, you can look up ancient depictions of Hathor and she was depicted this
way with the bull, its symbolism, right? It's like, you remember she appeared first as a bull,
right? In the story. Yeah, the bull. Yeah, it was the bull first in her.
Right. And he, I think he said it was like similar to the lady of Guadalupe.
Yeah, many names. But you look at depictions of Hathor.
Hathor.
Yeah, it's this Egyptian deity and she was depicted as a bull, but this, and she had this dress that
was like the, you know, twinkling stars. And it's the notion that she was like the divine mother
of the cosmos, nourishing with her udders, the, you know, the cow, the bull symbolism.
She was the, she fed the cosmos with her milk. It was this symbolism, right? But she said,
you know, I go by many other names. Oh, look at that one.
So can you imagine how I felt at 18 years old with my dad telling me this stuff?
No, I can't. You know, being a Pentecostal. I'm like, what the hell? I've never heard of Hathor.
And then he said that this being, the lady, she said that, um,
Amun Ra is the hidden one.
It's all she said. No, Amun Ra is the hidden one. Yeah.
What does that mean?
I don't know. But the point is I spent a lot of time after that studying
Egyptian mystery schools, which led me to Rosicrucianism, Hermeticism,
Gnosticism, just wisdom traditions in general, you know, and a fascinating tidbit of information
is that like at one point in human history, and when Egypt was the dominant civilization,
you had all these different secret mystery schools. And I can't remember, but I can't
remember the year, but it was the pharaoh Thutmose III who was so enamored by these
mystery schools that he united them all into one school. It's one body of wisdom. And they believed
that their wisdom came from Atlantis, right? Like if there was such a thing as Atlantis,
which I tend to think that there's a notion of that that existed. I don't know if all the
crazy stories about it are true, but I do think there was a precursor society that had more
knowledge than we do. They said that their knowledge was passed down from then. And anyway,
so that's where the Rosicrucians claim that they come from. All the way back, then they claim
their lineage is all the way back from the mystery school of Thutmose III, thousands of years ago.
So I find myself, several years back in Philadelphia, a true story, I find myself back
in Philadelphia a few years ago with a mutual friend of ours in Jim Simivans. He's the guy
that introduced us to Jim Simivan and Colonel Alexander. And I'm riding in the car with him.
Who is he? His name's Larry. Larry. Yeah. He's mentioned in the book. Okay. It was actually
his dad who had the stroke at the Bar Mitzvah. Oh, really? Yeah. I don't remember him in the book.
Yeah. Some people are like, don't want their name out. So he's one of those people he doesn't
want to be like, fully out there? Yeah. And I respect that, you know, but his name is Larry,
and he's a cool guy. But he starts like, what do you guys think about Rosicrucianism?
Talking to me about it. What do you think about Rosicrucianism? I'm like, I don't know.
I don't really know what that is, you know? What do you think about Rosicrucianism? And he starts
telling me about what they're into and Rudolf Steiner and this kind of stuff. And next thing
you know, he's like introducing me to Dr. Gilbert, who's this really cool guy out in
Nashville, North Carolina. He's like a Rosicrucian, but he also has like kind of like his
own mystery school. And next thing you know, he's like getting me in touch with him and kind of
getting me to study with him. I didn't study much with him. I went on out on my own. And I
started to have these dreams about the phenomenon. I started to have dreams around that time of like
seeing hieroglyphs and seeing glowing symbols on tablets and hieroglyphics and seeing when I
met this gentleman who was the, you know, the Rosicrucian who like started me on the learning
this stuff. Is this Larry? No, the guy that Larry introduced me to. Yeah, Dr. Robert Gilbert.
And he said the word netare. He believed in us. He believed in dad. He was like, this stuff all
checks out with, you know, like Rosicrucianism and what these mystery schools teach, what you guys
are experiencing. It's all here. And you know, you dive into their texts and it's like since
ancient times, all of these societies have known that there is a goddess. There is a female force.
There is a feminine layer to the divine reality that has been suppressed. But these mystery
schools, they're all about it. They're all about, I mean, it's like the Da Vinci Code. The Da Vinci
Code is all about it. I just bring that up because we just did an episode on my podcast about Da
Vinci Code. Oh, did you? Yeah, it's like this popular, it's all about this divine feminine,
right? So I'm like, wow, this is really weird. And I go through all these rabbit holes and I'm
studying this stuff. And I start having these dreams. And then I start having, you know, these
dreams of like glowing hieroglyphics. And I had this really crazy dream of like Osiris. And
then when I heard the word netare, which was basically the concept of Egyptian nature spirits,
I started having dreams about the phenomenon being that way. And it kind of like
led me down that rabbit hole, studying that information. And then next thing you know,
I find myself doing the podcast. And I'm just like, that's a lot of what we talk about is this
kind of information and how it relates to the phenomenon. Because in my experience,
the phenomenon is more of, it's more esoteric in nature. It's spiritual. It's not, you know,
necessarily physical alien, but it's something spiritual. And I think it's kind of hard to
put it in the words, but it's helped me understand it a lot better, studying a lot of this material,
you know? It's weird, you know, like my dad being an ex-Pentecostal Christian, having these
experiences with these beings, starting to say these several thousand-year-old Egyptian names
that we've never heard of, because Christians aren't allowed to study this stuff. And then I
start going in the ancient past and reading this material and it's all checking out. I'm like,
what is happening? I don't know if I'm doing a good job of explaining it, but like the stuff I'm
finding in these bodies of knowledge is like... This is a lot of like similar to the stuff that
Ed Casey talked about. Yeah, exactly. I know there's like a whole Ed, like a Edward Casey
like foundation or school where people like look a lot into the ancient Egypt stuff.
Exactly. Yeah. Very similar thing. And he saw a lady too, believe it or not. Yeah, I know.
Yeah, I like him. Yeah, they called him what the sleeping prophet. What was his story? He would
like go to sleep and he would come up with like revelations like to heal people. He'd sleep on
a book. Yeah, well that was the... I think the first thing he did was he slept on a book. Like he
had to study for something for school or whatever and then someone said, just sleep on it. And he
like literally took it, he took it literal and he slept on the book and then he like could memorize
everything. He knew the whole book. And then after that, like people would say they needed to be
healed or something and basically like he would just say, tell me their name and where they are
on the earth, like what state they live in or what town they live in and he would go to sleep
and come up with like a prescription for them to follow or something for them to do to like fix their
whatever was wrong with them. That's right. It's fucking crazy. He also predicted quite a lot of
stuff. He had like 14,000 readings throughout his time being psychic or whatever, his life.
And many of them were true. Like I think one of the things that he predicted in advance was like
using blood to diagnose illnesses. I mean, Edgar Cayce was around in like the 40s, you know,
or even before that. And another thing he predicted was the discovery of like the Dead Sea Scrolls
things like that. And Edgar Cayce. Oh, he predicted the discovery of that? Oh, I didn't know that.
Yep. Just years before it was found. And another thing he was really big on, which I find very
fascinating and we just did a whole episode on this concept just weeks ago on our show. It's out.
Edgar Cayce was a big proponent of Jesus being an Essine. What's that? Essine. Okay. So the Essines
were like, not much about them is known in history, but they were an extremely advanced
spiritual society that existed back in first century Judea, where you had like, you know,
in the life and times of Jesus, you had these different groups of Jewish priestly class who were
like the Sadducees were like, you know, we control the temple, you know, you have to get the God
through us. And they're the ones who were like kill Jesus, you know, really just kind of harsh bad
people. And then you had the Pharisees who were like really into the Torah, maybe not as bad as
the Sadducees, but you know, they're pretty spiritual. I'm generalizing. But then you had the Essines who
were like very devout, lived in agrarian villages and like the historical writings we have about them
that survived from like Philo of Alexandria and Pliny and Josephus all say that they were like the
most advanced and most ancient secret society that existed since aeons and aeons. And that was
written 2000 years ago. And they had these rites and rituals and they had these elaborate healing
arts. And, you know, they were just this happy group of people who just existed outside of
society in their own ascetic agrarian village and they used crystals and herbs and all kinds of
Jesus was part of them. That's that's that's what Edgar Cayce said. That's yeah, the belief is that,
you know, maybe, maybe what we know about Jesus isn't what we're told. Maybe there's something deeper
to it, right? Maybe maybe he wasn't Essine. I don't know. We can't know for sure. But
there's a lot of interesting stuff about that. Yeah, that's fascinating. And it just seems like
to especially when it comes to the internet, there's a lot of people on the internet who like
have they've sort of found their sense of meaning through this whole UFO thing, like this whole,
there's a whole group of people online, whether it be on Twitter or Reddit, whatever it is,
that are so invested in this thing that they've found some sort of meaning in it, right? And
anyone like any like even if there's somebody who comes across their post or whatever it might be on
Twitter, let's say, that questions it or comes against it, like it's almost their hostile towards
it, right? Like they want to defend it to the death and not hear any sort of counter arguments
against it where it's they've sort of like found their own meaning of life or they've found their
own religion through this kind of thing. And it's very similar to a religion, in a sense,
people that are like super into the whole UFO phenomenon. Yeah, it is. People are very violent
over their UFO beliefs. They are. Intellectually violent. Yeah. I gotta say, man, you know how
weird it was in 2007, when my dad came up, reported to Mufon, I had an experience. I believe it was
angelic in nature. And then exactly like what you just said, right? You've started fringing on
people's religion. You've got people who, you know, we're from North Carolina, this was mostly
Christian in the early 2000s. And it's like, oh, you know, you're dealing with the devil.
Yeah. That's not angels. That's that's not even aliens. It's demons. But then you have the people
in the 2000s, when we first came around and reported our story, that we're like,
we believe in aliens, but, you know, they're not spiritual. The two paradigms were separate,
you know, back then. So religious people said they would believe in aliens, but they're saying
that what you're seeing is not religious. No, religious people said they're demons. UFO people
said, I don't believe in angels or demons. You're seeing aliens. So it was like we were either two
religious or we were demonic, depending on your crowd. Right, right, right. But why would the
religious people say they're demons? Why would they not accept the fact that they were good?
Well, I don't want to throw anybody under the bus, but I remember being a kid and somebody I know
very, very well, a family member, I'll just say that when, you know, when dad's documentary came
out, everybody, people are cruel, man. They'll just tell you right to your face why you're a liar
or you're crazy or this or that and the other. And I remember somebody saying, no, that's not
possible because Jesus didn't die on other planets. Jesus didn't go down on all those other
planets. I don't believe there's anything else out there. And I'm like, yeah, okay, like I saw it,
you didn't. So I don't know what to tell you. But I mean, people believe whatever it is ego,
right? It's like, it's genuinely painful to consider a worldview that is counter to your own.
People's egos are grasping firmly on what they've been taught their whole life. They're supposed
to believe. This is what I said in the beginning, Danny, is if we want to awaken, if we want to
understand what's really going on here, we have to humble ourselves to higher forces. We have to
understand there are things out there that are bigger than us. Well, even the Vatican has accepted
the idea of aliens now. Like I forget who it was, but somebody at the Vatican was explaining how,
you know, we can't limit, you know, if you are religious and you believe in God and you believe
in a higher creator, like you can't limit that just to earth, right? Like you can't limit God's
creativity just to human beings. There has to be, you have to give him the benefit of whoever it is,
the benefit of the doubt to have created something outside of what we see every day on planet earth.
Right. Yeah, dimensions. That's coming from the Vatican. If there is something that is spiritual
that people have witnessed, like you and your dad are witnessing, is it possible that there also is
a bad version of it? Oh, yeah. Absolutely. There has to be, you know, for, it's just the nature
of reality. If there's something good, there's something bad. And it's like there's varying
degrees of that. But it's like, you know, it's like the absence of hot is cold, right? Or the
absence of love is fear. It's, you know, yeah, of course, I do think that there's some, some
negative entities and things like that. But I don't think it's anything to worry about.
I really don't, I've never come face to face. I mean, I've seen some shadow entities and things
like that. Like I've been around people where I've seen things that were attached to them.
But I think for anybody out there who's curious about entities and, you know, if you're like,
oh, you know, would I experience a good one when I experienced a bad one, this and that and the
other? I think that depends on what kind of person you are. And particularly what you're
going through, what energy you're putting out, if you're a good, kind, loving, joyful, positive
person, why would you be worried about negative entities, right? But let's say, you know,
somebody who's deep into a very serious addiction or abuse problem or some sort of very negative,
violent scenario or, you know, spouse abuse or whatever scenario in your head that's really bad.
Well, maybe then I'd be worried about some sort of negative entity. I mean, it really depends on
you. Did anybody you ever talk to, like some of these NASA people or anybody else, did they ever
say anything to you about negative, like evil entities or bad ones? What would they say about that?
Well, at Skinwalker Ranch, that's one thing Colonel Alexander told us was like, at Skinwalker Ranch,
they were having some pretty spooky experiences, like things like the, you know,
you know much about the ranch, right? How like people, multiple billionaires have bought it since
then, you know, to run experiments there. And that's one of the things is like they constantly
are trying to like, gotcha with the phenomenon, you know, they're trying to like trick it,
they're trying to get it on camera, they're trying to, like they just think that it isn't aware,
I guess. But the beings would like constantly outsmart them and do things like
disable their cameras and turn off the lights and just do things to really scare them.
Definitely harm some animals, things like that. I don't harm animals.
From what I've been told, yeah, there's been some animals that have been harmed at Skinwalker.
Yeah, like the cattle mutilations. Do you think that has to do with these entities at all?
I don't know because it's like the idea about the phenomenon at Skinwalker Ranch,
some people say it's because of ute Native American black magic practices from centuries ago,
you know, really dark kind of things lingering there. I mean, I don't know. I really don't know.
I don't have much experience with negative entities. I only have experience with positive
entities. I can't say why that's there, why bad things are happening. But, you know,
I don't think people should worry about negative entities. It's just like it says in the Bible,
right? You know, we have dominion over spirits. You don't have to be Christian for that to be true.
I'm not Christian, but I believe it to be true. I think we have power and dominion over entities.
You know? Really? Yeah. How do we have power and dominion over them?
I believe we're very special. I think we're very, very special. I think that there's a lot more to
being made in the image of God than people realize. I think we are literally made in the image of God.
As a matter of fact, if there was a piece of wisdom that I would love to leave with everybody,
that I would love everybody to contemplate on and really study this phrase and understand what it
means and where it comes from, you'll find that the Rosicrucians and even the Freemasons and all
these secret societies are obsessed with this phrase because of its importance. And it's as
above so below. And it's the concept that the microcosm mirrors the macrocosm. Or in other words,
if you think really hard about space, right? You think about galaxies and solar systems,
how they have an inherent order to them at the highest level, right? But then you think really
small and you think about the cells in your body and the atoms. They have a similar order. At every
plane of reality, higher and lower on this infinite sliding scale,
on this Fibonacci scale, so to speak, right? This spiral pattern. It's fractal.
Reality is constantly fractal all the way up and all the way down. And I believe
that that is true in every dimension and in every plane. And I do believe that we
are fractals of God, that we are all infinite sparks of God. It's like the ancient Hindu set.
It's Indra's net, right? You have this one original consciousness and it's personified,
not personified, but shown as this net. And then you have a drop of dew on every intersection of
the net and the sun is shining on the water and that sun is equally reflecting off every piece
of dew. That's me and you. That's all of our consciousness reflecting. There's only one light,
right? It's God. It's the mind. It's the universe, whatever. You call it whatever you want to call
it. We said this in the beginning. It doesn't really matter so much how you believe it.
Reality is reality. You can kick and scream about, my God's better than yours all day,
but something's up there. I tend to think this is how it works. It doesn't care what you think.
It doesn't care what you believe. It cares how you are. It cares how you
vibrate. It cares how you act, what you put out into the world. But anyway, so yeah,
so I believe that we are, I think that we are reflections. I think the material world is only
a mere reflection of the higher eternal world. Another example of this, Plato, most famous
philosopher of all time. He had a whole story about it called the allegory of the cave. He's
like, imagine you're in a cave and the sun is shining in the cave. The sun represents the
eternal reality. It's invisible, so to speak, but also like it's kind of the source of light.
It's symbolized by the sun. It's shining into the cave. Me and you are in the cave. We see
the shadows on the wall. Me and you, we live here in the cave symbolizing material reality.
We think the shadows are the real thing, but really it's out there in another dimension or
outside of the cave, right? And it's like you have all these different stories around the
world basically saying like, this is the illusion. There is something real. There's something else.
There's something else that's not the illusion. We are in the illusion. Or as the Hindus would say,
we are all in the dream of Brahma. We're in the mind of God. Or as the Hermitists and the
Rosicrucians would say, the universe is simply the mind of God and we're each a thought in it.
We're okay. So the question is, why do we have dominion over spirits? Because of that,
because we are a piece of the Creator. We are linked to the mind of God through our mind
because we are a piece of that mind, right? Yeah. No, that makes sense. That's why we have ESP.
That's why we have psychic abilities. That's why healings and miracles occur because we are
divine. I believe we're divine. I think we all are. I think that's the truth about all of it,
our religious myth, all the wisdom traditions and every bit of it. I think that we are all special
fractal pieces of, you could say, the God mind or whatever you want to call it. It doesn't matter.
It doesn't really matter. What do you think would happen if this information came out that
this is a spiritual thing and everything that you're saying? Imagine the government came out
and said everything that you and your dad are saying. This is what it is. It is what it is.
It's not beings from another universe that are going to try to control us or anything like that.
This is just a good thing. It's divine and let society run with it. What do you think would
happen? What would the effect be? I think that is going to happen, but it's not going to be
because the government came out with it. I think it's going to be different than that.
I see it going down in my head as the entities sort of allowing themselves to be seen more and
more by the masses as it's like this. The whole population is 100%. That's obvious.
Just say the entire population is 100, but maybe 10% no. They have the knowing,
they believe, they understand. The beings or you could say God or whoever. God is in charge of
everything. Again, it's like it doesn't really matter how people... It exists whether we like it
or not. It just is. God is the origin of everything. At the bottom of the UFO rabbit hole is only God.
Because God created everything. People can say, oh, I don't believe in God. That's fine. You don't
have to, but it's just the way it is. It's just there. Let's say only 10% of people are aware.
The beings cannot infringe on people's free will. We have to awaken on our own.
As more and more people become aware and they begin to raise the understanding, the collective
consciousness, the collective, you could say vibration. I really like that word. Some people
think it's, whoa, I don't care. Collective vibration. Yeah, I think that's a real thing.
Whatever. Yeah. It's absolutely a real thing. As that increases, I believe that the sightings
will increase. Like literally, like what you've seen, like the sightings of the entities. As the
awareness increases, the sightings are going to increase. Yeah. A very basic example is I've
never seen any of these things before, right, until I went out to the beach with your dad,
right? But I've also never stared at the sky for two hours. Right. I've never looked for it.
I've never really tried to look for it. And that was the first time. Was it because your dad was
there or was it because I stared at the sky for two hours? I don't know. I've never stared at the
sky for two hours before. But there's a third element there. Your awareness of why you're
looking at the sky. There's a lot of people who just look at the sky and they'll see it.
Maybe they're just looking through a telescope at the moon. Right. We were looking for that.
We were looking for the orbs. Exactly. Your awareness. You're connected to the mind.
Right. But isn't it true that like, no matter what it is, if you look for something hard enough
and long enough, you will find it. You'll find what you're looking for.
Is there a little bit of that in there? What, like with the beings? I mean...
Yeah. Like if you really want to see them, I really want to see them. I want to believe them.
I want them to be there. Like, is there something that happens in the mind?
Yeah. I've met a lot of people who are like that. I mean, you know, just for context. I mean, like
I said, I'm 30. It started when I was 13. I've met hundreds of people who've come to the property
or met them online or whatever. If we're counting online, if we're counting everybody I've ever
interacted with, it's got to be at least a thousand. It's a lot. We would have people camping in our
yard when I was a teenager. And I say all this to say of all the people I've met, there have been
many who I've met were just like your UFO fanatic. Like, I want to see something. I want to see
something and they don't see. You know? Because it's like, well, maybe you're trying a little too
hard. Maybe you don't have the right intention. Maybe you don't have the right attitude. It's
threatening a needle with this thing. You really have to go out there with an open mind.
And again, I keep saying this for the listener. You have to humble yourself to higher forces.
In order to see these things, you have to go out there and you have to allow yourself to say,
if it be or will, show me. You know? Going out there saying, I'm going to see a UFO. I'm going to
see this. I'm going to see that. Well, I've met a lot of people who never see anything. They think
they've got it all figured out and it's back to square one. There are some people who have come
to our property many times, never seen one thing. Period. And they're the biggest UFO fans in the
world. Yeah. Why didn't they see it? I don't know. Maybe they're not looking for the right thing.
There's also another element to it is how it's so elusive. Yeah.
The elusive element builds more interest in it. The fact that these things, whether they be orbs
or flying saucers or tic-tacs, they live on the edge of our ability to understand them and
observe them. It's so rare to see one. And if it did become something that was just all the time,
and you can see them, I often wonder if we would care so much about them if they were ubiquitous.
If something is just there all the time, it's not as interesting. If a UFO landed on the White
House lawn tomorrow, it's like, oh, wow, it would be all over the newspaper. People would talk about
it. But maybe after that, it would just be like, okay, what's the next new story?
We would try to find the next thing beyond that. We would try to find the next thing
that we don't see. What's the next mystery we need to figure out? That's how the human mind works.
Yeah. No, that's a good point. But I think that's probably true. But then I also think
there's another layer to that, which I do think will happen. I genuinely think this is going to
play out and that we're going to, I think we're on the positive timeline. If such a thing exists
with timelines and things like that, I think we're on the positive one. I think there's a lot
of doom and gloom out in the news and the media, but it's all just smoke. It's smoke. They're just
blown smoke. It's like the lady said, there's dark forest trying to make it look like it's the end
of the world, but it's an act and it can only go on so long. And yes, real tragedies are happening.
Yes, real people are suffering, but the whole point is that I believe that it's manufactured by
anyway. So my point is, I do think we're on the good timeline. I do think in our lifetime,
it's going to play out where the masses will come around to this. Again, like it's what I was
saying earlier, like as the awareness, let's say we're at 10% or whatever of the total population,
they're awake. Awake meaning they know. They've seen the beings they know or maybe they haven't
seen them, but they just know. As that grows, I think the sightings will grow. And I think we're
going to hit a critical mass where it's going to go somewhere above 50% where it's like, it's not
really an issue of free will anymore because when the majority of the population believes, well,
okay, well, we can show up. You guys are, you're okay with it. They're not going to just
infringe on the world. People always ask, they're like, well, why don't they just show up for the
masses and say, we're here, we're real, they can't do that. It's infringing on free will, right?
But again, so we're going to hit that point, I think, and I think that when we hit that point,
we're going to hit this mass shifting consciousness where we start having leaps and bounds, quantum
leaps and bounds in our understanding of reality, consciousness, the mysteries of life after death,
technology, I think everything is going to change. I think we're going to very quickly
shift into a much better place because our understanding of everything is going to shift.
First things first, they're going to do away with the agenda of all of this scientific crap that
is trying to paint this picture that we're just nothing special. It's only Darwinian evolution
or only big bang, you know, all this indication there is no spiritual phenomenon. I think that's
going to fade away. We're going to take this old news and we're going to stop caring about it. I
think it needs to stop being taught. I think the truth, I think the reality is somewhere in the
middle. I think it's evolution, but I think it's through intelligence, right? I don't think it's
Darwinian evolution. I think it's more so like what the Rosicrucians, you know, and the wisdom
traditions teach that it's like God is evolving us, right? But in reality, it's not just physical
and biological evolution. It's the evolution of consciousness. The fact that the human body and
any sort of biological life evolves is only a reflection of the evolving consciousness, right?
So over time, our consciousness is evolving and therefore, you know, we're evolving too.
The scientists are like, oh, you know, it's Darwinian this and that and it's evolution,
it's evolution. That's a tiny little piece. They're looking in the corner of the room.
They're not looking at the whole picture. It's consciousness evolution.
There's, you know, thinking about like what would happen if this became ubiquitous and everyone
realized that, you know, there's this whole nother reality. Like this isn't reality. We are just like
a shadow of a higher dimension. And how would that affect people's lives? Well, you would think maybe
people wouldn't want to wake up and go to work anymore. Maybe it was sort of like redefine
meaning for people. And meaning for most people is creating some sort of identity for themselves.
Like people who have a purpose in life, they wake up and they, when they go to work or when they
do whatever they do every day, there's something behind that, whether it be making a lot of money,
whether it be building some sort of legacy that outlasts them. Like if you want to talk about
some sort of like symbolic immortality, there is, that is very much tied to innovation and like
humans building things and evolving things. Like we need to talk about automobiles or AI or whatever
it might be. We, human beings are at the foundational level, we just, we create new
shit. And that's like what we do best. And that is what runs the entire world. That's what runs
our, the global economy is building and creating and manufacturing and all this stuff. And the
core drive for all that is, is money, legacy, symbolic immortality. There's so many things
that are just like at the core of human existence. And if you change that from the bottom level,
saying that this is not reality, we are a shadow of some higher reality and spirit and you get into
all this, you know, esotericism and you're changing what it means to be a human in our
reality. What is that going to do to the fabric of society and the way the world operates?
Like we're no longer going to be this, we're no longer going to be a society or a culture that
wants to mix stuff or wants to, that cares about money.
I don't think so, right? I think, I think we create because we're a reflection of the creator,
right? And I think if we existed in a society where we weren't designed not by, you know,
nature, but by the power structures to just be dumb, loyal workers, if that form of society
went away, that meaning what it is now, you know, we're all supposed to go to school, you know,
memorize our answers for the test and then go out and then go to college, you know, and then get a
job and we're just, we're dumb workers. Yeah. And again, a lot of the, a lot of the things that
define who we are and what we do is very much related to the fact that we don't live forever.
Yeah. Right. That we're going to die eventually and we have to do, we have to do as much as we
can while we're still alive. Yeah. But I think if this form of society went away and like,
I think, you know, I know of a handful of technologies just, just from a couple of chats
with, you know, like CIA officers and NASA and aerospace and people like that. I know we have
very advanced technologies. And I know a couple of things, not, not even anything that would,
would blow your mind, but the point is, I know that there is advanced technology. I know it.
And I feel like that there have to be technologies that could change the very fabric of technology,
like energy. I know they have some advanced energy systems. Time travel was indicated,
although, you know, I haven't seen any evidence of that, but it was indicated extreme hologram
kind of stuff, high tech batteries. I mean, you name it, there are advanced technologies. I think
that there are ways that they could just create some sort of baseline level of wealth and security
where, you know, it's like, if we didn't have to worry so hard about survival and bills and taxes,
and we could just kind of like exist in a peaceful society, that I think we would want to create.
That's the thing, though. We, you say, like, clearly we have some crazy high tech shit that
people don't know about. Yeah, with the military and stuff. With the military. Right. And that's
government. That's the thing, like, how advanced and is it advanced enough or could there be some
sort of enlightenment that's going to stop us from being these territorial apes that we are?
Like, right now the world is based off nations that want to compete for power. Right. Right.
And the more they want more people, they want more money, they want more military might,
more guns. That's what the world is. That's what everything is based on. Like, our entire GDP is
based on war, is based on military contractors. And that's what runs the world. So is there something
technologically advanced, something that's so crazy that it's going to change all that?
It's hard for me to wrap my mind around that. I think it exists. I do. I don't know that for
sure. But I know that the beings told my dad that it was written many thousands of years ago about
the light winning and that it's already happened, you know, was just playing out. And I do think
that we're going to be the generation that gets to see the great unveiling of the mysteries of
what it all means. Why are we here? Life after death? God, these beings, what is our place in
the universe? I think we're going to know those things. And I think that when we do know those
things, everything is going to change. I think that they're, like you said, well, there'll be some
form of enlightenment. I do. I think it's happening now. I think it's happening right now with just,
you know, an example of that is me and you talking or anybody talking about this. And that's just
going to spread and spread and spread and more people are going to talk about it. And like we
said, the more people aware of this, the more people are going to see it. I know this. You know,
talk about, since I was a kid, being studied by the Department of Defense, because these things
are happening at such a strange intensity. You know, like I've seen things that mortal should
not see. I've seen very weird shit. You know what I mean? And what I know, something that I cannot be
convinced otherwise, especially recently with stuff happening, more and more people are starting
to see these things. Just for example, dad and I, and just my family, we've had a lot of people out
to the property to sky watch. You should come by the way. You should come visit. You should come
visit. Maybe after the holidays or whatever you get a chance. But we've had a lot of people come
to our house over the years and a lot of people have seen this phenomenon. And despite that,
up until recently, dad never had a mass, I say mass, you know, when I say mass, people might
think thousands or millions. I don't mean that much. But like the biggest group that dad had been with
present that had a sighting with him was like maybe 20. And then a couple months ago,
after he published his book, he published his book back in like February. And then the documentary
came out in like August. And then I think it was like September or something. He went and did a
like a book signing kind of thing at a place in North Carolina. And there were 50 to 70 people
there. And they saw, they put a microphone to my dad and they're like, oh, we're going to a sky
watch led by you. And he didn't, he wasn't prepared for this. And he did it. And I mean, I wasn't there,
but I know there were 50 to 70 people there. And they all saw, they saw and it's like, oh,
my God, something's happening. You know, this is a pretty big crowd. And it's like,
then after that, dad and I were like, you know what, we could do something with this. And we had
the wild idea of like, why don't we try to take this out into the world? You know, we put the
videos up and, you know, we've invited History Channel to our property to study us and get
sightings on their AI cameras and all that. And, you know, have let people come to our property.
And now we've been at other places with large crowds and seen it. Why don't we try something
different? Why don't we try to organize some sort of public event where we can try to show as many
people as possible? So I was like, dad, I'll just put it out on Instagram. We'll invite the whole
world, anybody who wants to come, you know, show up at this day at this time, we're going to be here,
we're going to sky watch and we're going to see what we're going to see. And dad was like, I don't
know if I'm comfortable with that. Let's make it smaller first and we'll work our way up. So we
ended up with like 11 people. But the point is, it was our first time doing this and we went out to
the beach at Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina. And we had a crowd with us at an agreed upon spot
in time. We've never done this before. We went out and we said, okay, we're going to meet in a
public location off of our property with the express intention of having sightings. And we had
crazy sightings, like crazy, like stuff flying over our head and it looked like the sky was like,
looked like the stars were just shooting all around in every direction and
crazy, crazy. I did an episode on my podcast about that night, but something's happening.
There's some sort of, just based on my lifelong experience with these beings, there is an notion
I'm understanding that it's growing. It's growing and growing, the awareness of this, the sightings,
and not only is it growing around us, but then the awareness of it is growing. And look at you,
dude, you just had dad on and that right there is awareness. Whether people believe or not,
it doesn't matter. They've heard it. And dad just did the history channel thing and then
there's some sort of awareness that is growing. And I think it's going to just keep growing and
growing and growing and growing. Well, going back to what you were saying about some of the people
saying, telling you not to talk about this stuff, right? Some of the people that you originally met
with saying, don't talk about this stuff publicly. It won't be good. We used to have to kill you a
couple of years ago, but now we don't have to do that anymore because we have easier way. It's easier
for us to ruin your life now. Yeah, that's exactly why I do it. So that kind of goes back to like,
if this is something that could upset the balance of global power, it's interesting that
you just said the DOD and the CIA are the people most interested in it because this is a potentially
something that could render them obsolete. Yeah, exactly. That was something that was told to me
by Jim Simivan. He was like, well, I can't remember exactly what I asked him. This was
several years ago, probably like 2016 or something like that. And we were at that mutual friends
in Pennsylvania. And I asked him a question. I was like, why don't you just come out and say it,
man? Like, oh, the crap. I've always kind of had a funny way with these people. I don't really
honor sensibilities. And I just say what I want to say. Like, you've investigated me. I feel like
I have the right to ask questions respectfully. Yeah, for sure. And I press and I press and I press.
And it was funny. One time, actually, I asked him, I was like, is there such thing as like the
Illuminati or the shadow government? I said shadow government. I was like, is that real?
He got this big grin and he was like, I might have brushed shoulders with it. But anyway, so
yeah, I said something like, why don't you just come out with it? Why the secrecy? And he goes, well,
you have to imagine that there would be a lot of people pretty upset that if they found out how
we've been kind of heightened the whole time, you know, and if they found out the nature of it,
and we would most likely lose our continuity of power in the public image or the image of
the continuity of power. Yeah, they can't come out and be like, sorry, my bad, we've killed people
over this. We've silenced them. We've abused people. Here's why we did it. I hope you free.
They're not going to do that. They're like, please go tell it for us. Yeah, that's a big can of worms.
They don't want people to, they don't want people approaching the phenomenon. They don't want,
exactly, it's a big can of worms. They don't want people interfacing with this. They don't
want people out there looking up at the sky connecting with it. They want, they don't want
people to connect with it at all. And there's that recent bill that was passed, that whistleblower
amendment. I forget, I think it was the Schumer amendment and the whistleblower act was passed
as a part of it. Basically, that was like whistleblower protection for people that wanted to come
out and talk from private military contractors like Raytheon or Northrop Grumman or Lockheed or
whatever it was. And I think Grush was protected by that whistleblower act and now they're trying
to reverse it and they're trying to get rid of it. And two of the two of the congressmen that are
pushing to get it cabashed are guys that are paid for, that are like very much lobbied by
Lockheed. And one of the guys is like right near Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. So it seems like
what the consensus is, is that some of these big private aerospace companies or defense companies
are trying to keep this stuff secret. And they've been doing business with the government for a
long time and there's a lot of secrets. And it seems like some of these private companies have
way more controls than they should have. And they're obviously these senators and congressmen
are in their pockets. And that has a lot to do with the secrecy, I think. They're the ones that
are pushing for it more so they can make more money and they can protect all those budgets.
And militarize. Yeah. Yeah, you ask. You're like, who's the dark force? I mean, I'm really trying
not to be blatant about it here, but I mean, you know, we want to militarize the, just generalizing,
you know, we want to militarize, you know, like that's what it is. Yeah, militarize space. Exactly,
militarize space, militarize the phenomenon, militarize the subject. I mean, you tell me,
who's the dark force? I don't know. I don't want to say. Yeah. Your dad told a story on the podcast
about how there was a rocket that was being shot out of off the East Coast or whatever that had like
a mock warhead on it, but it was fake, but it wasn't real. And it got some sort of video of
that online. There was at one point, I don't know if it's still up. I saw the video. Eventually,
it was leaked online. And dad was like, this was the one. Yeah, he showed it in mission control.
Do you remember where it was launched from? What if we were to search for? Probably Cape Canaveral,
I don't know. No, it was on the West Coast. Oh, was it? Yeah. Steven, if you like search...
Vanderberg. Vanderberg. That's what it was, Vandenberg. But it was, yeah, it was just an orb,
and it shot controlled bursts of light into the thing and it tumbled down. And yeah, Tim Taylor
asked my dad, he was like, why do you think they did that? Dad was like, well, was it a warhead?
Or something like that, you know, I wasn't there. I'm just paraphrasing how it went down, you know.
And they determined, yeah, it was. They were trying to sneak a dummy warhead into space.
This phenomenon doesn't let us put weapons in space. Actually, they came and they told the
government. Who came and told the government? The beings. In the 1950s, they're like no more
nuclear testing above ground. You're harming beings and other realities. You need to stop this.
And if you actually look in history in the 1950s, they stopped testing nuclear bombs above ground.
Now, this is something that the entities indicated in my dad. Cool corroboration here. There is an
experiencer by the name of Dorothy Izat, who we never had to play with. I've heard of her. I've
watched a... Her documentary. It's really good. I didn't watch the full documentary. This guy,
Sam, on Twitter, his name's Tupacabra. He made a little documentary on his YouTube channel. That's
how I learned about her. But she has a very similar experience to what your dad sees.
Exactly. Yeah. And I only know that because James Simivan in the CIA told me, he was like,
I think you should watch Capturing the Light by Dorothy Izat. And in my opinion,
it's very similar to what you're experiencing. It's a very similar phenomenon. And anyway, so
if you go into Dorothy's experience, you had the same message from the beings.
What message?
About the nuclear bombs and harming beings and other realities.
So in the 50s, they told the government that?
Oh, yeah. They're like, you put a stop.
How do they tell the government?
I don't know. I imagine they shut up and they scared the hell out of them.
Does anybody have any story on how that happened?
I don't know. That's all I know. That they warned them, don't test bombs above ground anymore.
You're harming. It causes shocks through the dimensions.
They're like splitting atoms. It can't be good for anything, period.
And yeah, they actually did stop testing nuclear bombs above ground in the 50s.
And here's another cool little tidbit. I remember being a kid back when the Discovery Channel
in Mufon was investigating us in 2008. One of the reasons that they knew that my dad
was telling the truth when he hit send was they wanted him to draw the depictions of the beings
and the craft. Remember, we talked about, you know, it's a craft, but it's kind of like made
a light. It wasn't like a flying saucer.
No, it was like a big teardrop shape of light spinning with these tendrils of light.
I mean, it's, you know, it's like think, think like HP Lovecraft for anybody out there that
knows what I'm talking about. It's like something cosmic that you're not really supposed to,
you can't really understand it. It baffles the brain. And I've seen this. I've seen this,
this kind of thing. I've seen one of those. But talk about missing time. But what was I,
I forgot where I was going with that. Oh, in 2008 Mufon and the Discovery Channel was
investigating us and they brought us diagrams from the 1950s where they had other witnesses
draw the same exact being in the same exact craft. And they were like, look at this, it's
identical. They knew we were, they knew we weren't making it up. They knew that it was,
they told us they get thousands of reports. Do you have pictures of the beings that you
guys drew online? Where can we find them online? I could find them on my phone.
Can he find them? Where can he find them and pull them up on there?
Maybe just type like Chris Bloodsowe painting. Otherwise I could send it to you.
Chris Bloodsowe painting. I think you sent it to me the other day, didn't you?
But I also have one of the original drawings. Oh, really?
That's the lady. Yeah, that's, that's painted by Doug Alder.
There's dad with the brain scan. There's my dad's painting on the left.
Is that, is that the scary one?
Scroll up. No, that is my dad's painting. That's the little, the little one?
Yep. Oh, look, that's by me. Dad painted this in 2009. Love the glyph on his, I think that's my
first ever tweet. Really? Yeah, I think so.
That's funny. Is this the scary one that was hidden in the closet?
Um, I don't know about the closet, but that's-
What was in the closet? I don't remember one in the closet.
I remember the scary seven footer that was outside the window.
No, no, no, no, no, like Chris said he painted the, the creature and his wife said it was so
scary, get it out and put it in storage. That was the seven foot.
Yeah, it's the other one. This is the, this is the one that, that my brother saw in the woods,
that I saw in my room and it was translucent. With the mechanical eyes.
Yep. And that dad saw, you'd see the triangle on his chest and that dad saw on the backyard and
it was like, you don't understand, we're not here to hurt you, we're here to help you.
I got a question. Yes, sir.
Are these things able to change the way they appear to you?
Yes. And if so, could they make themselves more pleasing than this scary little glowing being
with red eyes? Perhaps like a beautiful blonde-haired blue-eyed woman with a white dress.
Yeah, I think so. You think they're the same thing?
I think they're generally, I mean, they all come from the same place. Yeah,
I think they can appear in a variety of ways.
You think, so, okay, so the consensus is that these little beings and the big tall seven foot
ones and the lady are sort of like the same thing, just like shape-shifting into different forms?
I don't think it's quite like that. I think it's more so like,
um, how can I say this? Well, you know, it's like at the Vatican,
they have this whole nine orders of angels thing, right?
Yeah.
You know, I think it's closer to that, that there's a hierarchy of existence throughout
reality or realities. This is what Jim Simi-Van actually told me. He said that-
This is what Diana writes about in her book too.
I haven't read it.
The new one.
I wouldn't know, but that's cool. But yeah, so Jim told me-
That's the seven foot one that he said had like human-ish eyes.
Yeah. And eventually-
So it did have a pupil. It had a pupil and white around it.
And then eventually they removed their appearance and they were just light.
But um-
I wonder if they're making themselves look like that on purpose, like if they could look like
anything else. Like back in medieval times, maybe they made themselves look different.
Yeah. Well, you know, like we only understand angels to be
how they look because of all the Renaissance era paintings and stuff,
you know, with the Roman armor and the wings and you know, I don't know.
You've got people over in Ireland talking about-
Elves.
Elves and fairies coming out of mounds and throughout different cultures,
you have so many different descriptions. I think it's all the same thing.
But um-
Have you ever heard of the guy-
There's a- I had a guy, a kid in here, or not a kid. He was probably my age.
This dude who was a filmmaker and he made a documentary about a guy in New York
city called, it's called Love and Saucers. If you can Google, if you just YouTube Love and Saucers,
Steve, what was this guy's name? Really old guy, but basically his story was that
he lost his virginity to an alien. David Huggins.
David Huggins, that's who it is. Yes, it's an amazing documentary.
Wow.
And he draws, he draws all these paintings and it's- and he tells this incredible story
of how he had sex with this female alien and she had
like babies. Let's play the teaser. If you just type in Love and Saucers trailer,
it is real. I mean it's a very well done documentary. I believe this guy is genuine.
I don't believe he's telling a story. I don't think he's making this up because-
Yeah, there you go. David Huggins. Shout out to David.
Why did these beings choose me?
There is an orange-yellowish light comes on.
David is looking at the light and doesn't hurt his eyes. He is aware of the beings.
They are standing over him. They are touching his body.
My name is David Huggins. I'm 72 years old and I live in Hellbook in New Jersey.
I was living a perfectly normal life until I started remembering things.
It was just like image upon image upon image. It wouldn't stop. I was so scared.
The eyes were just glowing straight toward me and we floated up to some type of craft.
I said, you hurt me. You hurt me. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This is the woman I never told anyone about.
When I was 17, I lost my virginity to a female extraterrestrial. That's all I can say about it.
Virginity lost.
He clearly doesn't understand. Don't kiss and tell.
Could you imagine? If I was the extraterrestrial that came down and had this encounter with him,
I'd be like, dude, you're painting me and putting me, you know?
That's why she stopped talking to him.
It's got to be.
But apparently he has little babies that he got to meet.
Crazy documentary, man. I highly recommend it. It's really good.
Wow, wow, wow.
Hoboken, New Jersey. That's where Julian is.
We got to, oh my God.
We need to get him out of there.
We got to get Julian out ASAP, bro.
Well, dude, thank you so much for coming on and hanging out and telling the story.
It is so perplexing, man, especially the fact that I witnessed it and I got it on video
with your dad is something that I can't explain and I haven't been able to figure out.
I definitely want to go out there and try to do it again, though.
Yeah. Well, I mean, yeah, just, I think the best thing would be
sometime in the coming months, just come out and visit, you know?
I just think generally like for you as a person, man, to have your own experience
that's really meaningful and impactful, just come out and visit, you know?
And just no pressure and we'll just hang out and have a good time and, you know,
see some crazy stuff.
Yeah, I'm going to tell people where they can follow your podcasts and all your social media
stuff so we can, we can link it, we'll link it down below in the description.
Thank you. It's BledsoeSedso.
Pretty much everywhere, Twitter, Instagram.
BledsoeSedso.com is probably the easiest way to find all of our socials there.
And this is going to be way out of the left field, but my co-host of BledsoeSedso,
Nick and I actually do have a heavy metal band called Twice Born. Check us out.
Twice Born.
Twice Born.
We got to listen to some of that.
Twice Born. Yeah, yeah.
All right, cool. Well, guess what? We're going to end this podcast and we're going to talk about
some other shit, your heavy metal and some other stuff.
Oh, sweet.
For a couple more minutes, 10 more minutes. And if you want to watch that,
go to the Patreon linked below.
Peace.
