You know, I ordered both colors. We spoke for like two hours after everybody left.
It was a dude walk by and just like, Oh, okay. I'm like, sir, is that the jumbo petite?
One of my favorite things is smoking hookah in the U.S. If you smoke hookah in the Middle
East, it'll fuck you up. Yes, it will. Really? What's the difference?
They've got they put tobacco in it. Oh, yeah. What's in it here? Just vapor. Yeah, it's just
flavor. Oh, really? Yeah. That's why it doesn't feel like no, it'll tear up your throat. It'll
give you a little bit of a head high. But like, you do that stuff in the Middle East. And like,
here you could smoke hookah all night. In the Middle East, you get you do like one,
and you're, you're like gone. Really? Yeah, that's they stay up all night doing it.
That's the kind of hookah I want to smoke. I'm telling you, just take it easy when you do it.
And don't be sitting with anybody. Don't sit with a Jordanian. Don't sit with an Emirati or a
Saudi. Why? What's up with Jordan? Because a Jordanian is fun. The Emiratis and the Saudis are
just going to like, they're just going to pull as much information out of you as possible because
they they do everything very early. Yeah. Andy, I got to come clean. I got to start the podcast
with this. Me and Julian, we're having like a we had like a 30, 40 minute debate last night,
whether or not you murdered people overseas. I'm like, I go, I go, I don't think he I can't
see Andy slaying. I don't think he's a he's a killer. I mean, maybe.
I'm like, I'm like, well, this is what this is what my thought was. I'm like,
it's got to be compartmentalized. Andy's got to be the guy that sets people up and and can
like has the meetings, tricks everybody. And there's got to be another guy that slips in
somebody's window at night and fucking slips their throat. We don't call it tricking. I don't
see. We don't call it murder. And he's like, let me go. Andy's the kind of guy
slit your throat, but then he helps your head down to the ground so so that you can have an
open casket. Thank you. I'm serious. You and I think there's guys like that. Yeah. There's also me.
I don't care. I don't close the case when you let the head drop. So you got to you got to. Absolutely.
So you do it politely. It's it's intimates. Yeah, you'll never have an open casket. Intimate killers
and there's not intimate killers. So I always thought CIA people they would kill you by either
poisoning you or like they they had this way of inducing heart attacks, making people have heart
attacks. Poison is way too high risk. Well, poison wrong person might take it. We tried to poison.
What's his name Castro, right? I mean, I think we've tried to poison more people than we've
successfully. Oh, okay. Yeah, agreed. What are some of the best ways that they pull off
non-descript kills? Non-descript. Yeah, meaning like people. What is the preferred way of preferred
way of murder? What do you call murder? Car accident. Car accident. Drowning. Drowning.
Assassinations. Okay. So and I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say that there's really
very little value in a in a non-descript killing. Yes. The value comes from a high profile. 100
percent because now you get you get the influence impact. So the message. Correct. You want to
deliver a crystal clear message. You use a non-explosive missile. You use like the if you've
heard of switchblade missiles, not the drones, right? The drones are something different,
but there's a missile that launches and when right before it hits its target,
it has blades that come out the sides. So now you can hit one target with blades out both sides
that basically turn the body into an explosive and then everybody else in the car is now covered
in the guts and the brains and the body parts. That'll do. That'll do because now you get the kill
and you send a message. Yep. That's 100 percent. That's how we handle it. You still think he's
innocent as fuck? It's not an intimate kill. It's not intimate. It's not. You're not on,
you're not eye to eye. Yeah. You'll see his eyes later. It'll be on the other guy. Oh my God.
But you've got an eye on this guy watching and then you see him all break and you see them kind
of wiping it off the shirt and they're freaking out and you're like, Oh, it's a win. It's a win
for America today, guys. Spoken like a man with experience. That's incredible. We've just read
about it. Yeah, that's right. I saw it in a movie once. Yeah, exactly. I don't know why I haven't
seen that in a movie. That's such a badass thing. I don't think I could think of it as just too.
It's too grotesque. Gory. Yeah. It's probably silent too, right? Or fairly silent. It's like a
thud. Like the car still runs. It goes through the windshield or through the side windows or through
the back window. It doesn't hurt the engine block. It just hits the person. Person blows up, right?
I mean, it's moving 600, 700 miles an hour when it hits, but it doesn't like break the car. It just
puts a giant hole in the car and everybody else can get out and walk. What about some old school
like car bombings? They're still doing a lot of that? We don't do that kind of stuff. No. I told
you. The profile's too high risk, guys. When you think about what we do overseas,
I mean, this guy's nodding his head. You've got a Senate to account for, a congressional staff,
congressional house you got to account for, you got the executive you have to account for. So
everything is heavily bureaucracized. So with the stuff that we need to do, we need it to be
discreet to everyone except the target audience. So when you blow up a terrorist, you want it to be
the terrorist cell knows what happened, but pretty much nobody else does. That's how we want to
operate. That's exactly right. Even the bombs and motorcycle bombs, that's from a side. So what
about that guy? Wow. What was the dude like Putin's chief advisor or something? Oh, the dude who was
poisoned? No, no, I know what you're thinking of. I'm talking about a recent one though, like Putin's
chief advisor, the daughter's like a media member and the guy got like blown up in his car a few
months ago. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. They were saying, I think the word was like, oh, Ukraine had to do
that. So I guess that would make sense based on what you're saying. That wouldn't have been something
we would have looked at. Right. That's MI6, CIA. Yeah, there were even even SVR, right? They try
to stay very discreet unless even when they poison people, they do it discreetly. It just
hits the headlines when somebody finds a poisoned body. I cut you off, Jim, I'm sorry.
No, no, no. I was just thinking about another method, but it doesn't make sense in this context.
I'm thinking more of interrogation. Have you seen the videos of killing somebody?
I think it relates to killing, then it's related to the topic.
Collarbone. Yeah. Okay. Have you seen the videos of like some of the attempted
assassinations on Putin? Like there's one specific, I think it's still on YouTube,
where the car tries to drive across the median across the highway and tries to get like hit
Putin's car. But I guess so somebody was driving Putin's vehicle. I think it was his limo or
something like that, but he wasn't in it. And a car was driving down the other side of the highway
in Russia, going like 120, comes all the way across the median and then T-boned the car and
kills the driver. Do we have that on video? Yeah, see if you can find that on YouTube.
It's definitely on video. I've seen it on YouTube before. And Putin's like, no, get me. I'm not
there. Kind of like the same thing happened to Patton, right? I mean, back in the day. Oh,
yeah. That's way back. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He eventually succumbed to the injuries,
but didn't kill him on the spot. Oh my God. Did we ever find out who did that? No. No one found
out who did that. No, no. Nope. Never. Well, they said he survived, right? I mean, I think they
said he survived for a while. And then they said he lived longer. Like that he wasn't dead. Because
he's Patton. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, you don't pitch invading China. No. And then go out quietly.
Exactly, exactly, right. Yeah, that's exactly right. It's right. George E. Scott put a nice
role there too. So what's the latest in Ukraine, though? That's really that's that's what we wanted
to to get to right away, because it seems like it's been a almost a stalemate. I that's the
that's not the best way to describe it, but it feels minus the blow up of the pipeline. A few
months ago, that was seemed just to be some media political play at the end of the day. It feels
like a total nothing burger for the last three, four months. I mean, he's on the run. He's got
a tail between the legs. I worry. I mean, I don't know how you feel about it, Andy, but I worry
about things. You know, this guy's a nut. He's a narcissist. He's as much as a narcissist as the
other orange-haired dude that's going to make an announcement on Tuesday. Oh, yeah, two days.
Yeah, unbelievable. In the middle of this fight, you know, obviously Herschel Walker should take
him out. But you know, my thought, I worry about the fact that he's got the capability to do some
crazy things. And he's feeling like he needs to do some crazy things, right? So who knows? I just
don't know. Yeah. So it's funny because even hearing your comment right there, Julian, like I
cringe because you can see the Western narrative playing out. It's not a stalemate. It's not a
stalemate when there's still thousands of people dying every week. You know what I mean? There's
24,000 rounds a week being launched in terms of artillery from the Russian side. There's
four to 6,000 rounds of artillery being launched a week from the Ukrainian side.
Like it's not a stalemate. What about the progress? This is what protracted war looks like, right?
This is right out of the Army War College. Million percent. Anybody out there who's
trying to say that Russia is winning right now, what you consider it, or anybody who's trying
to say Ukraine is winning, if somebody else owns 20% of your house, you're not winning. Are you
fighting back? Yeah. Ukraine is fighting back. They have surprised the world over and over again.
They shocked the world with a resistance in the first two weeks. They shocked the world with a
counterattack. They shocked the world with what's going on in Kersen right now. Like this is what
protracted war looks like. There's battlefield wins. There's battlefield losses. And especially
when you're talking about Ukraine versus Russia, both of them were trained in the same school of
combat, the Russian Soviet School of Combat, which is all about disinformation, misinformation, and
trying to attack what nobody sees. So we never really know what's going to happen next in this
conflict. We can try to make assessments. We can try to make predictions, but we should all expect
that predictions are going to be wrong and assessments really should be weighted out with
their probabilities. So what's coming? The winter is coming. Russia still controls massive portions
of Ukraine. Has Russia pulled back some of their advance? They've definitely pulled back.
They've dug in. I mean, I've had folks who've come back from Ukraine saying it looks more like
World War One out there. It's trench warfare. Changed up artillery pieces. Only now they're
throwing. Yeah. I mean, the rounds fired 24,000 a week. What most people don't understand is the
shock effect. Even if there's no killing with regards to these explosions or these rounds,
the shock effect is so severe that it's almost impossible. You see the old World War One and
World War Two videos of what's now classified as PTS or classified as a closed head injury,
a traumatic brain injury, those kinds of things. That's from the shock effect. That's from the
fact that you're continuously hearing and getting hit on top of sites and areas. The other part of
it is exploding rounds. These things explode like 20 yards above your head and then just
rip you. Even if you survive that, you don't survive that. I think that's the situation that's
in that they continue to just fire these particular artillery and drone rounds. They're making progress
in that fashion. There's no more traditional combat. There's no more hand-to-hand. There's no more of
that stuff really going on. When I was saying, stalemate, by the way, that was a bad word to use
because I didn't mean like, oh, there's no fighting going on. Seems like nothing. What I meant was
have the lines changed. It's a good point. Russia is in 20% of the house, but have we seen
Russia move to 40% or seen Ukraine push them back five? The strategic field of battle in Ukraine
is the south. It's the land bridge to Odessa and Moldova. It has never changed. Even if you look at
the counterattack that started on August 29th, where did that counterattack make the most progress
in the north? The counterattack was brilliantly executed, and Zelensky even said himself that the
reason they launched a counterattack in the north was because they knew they were about to lose
ongoing support from NATO in the west. They needed to show battlefield victories in order to continue
receiving support from the west. He knew it. He knew it, and he publicly announced it.
And then he said, that's why we launched a counterattack. And they launched a counterattack in
the north and the south. The south barely moved. The north had massive gains. So they redirected
all of their resources to the north. Why were they so successful in the north? Because for the
preceding two months, Russia had been moving all of their forces to the south because they know
the strategic value of Ukraine is to close off the southern end. If they need to call and help
from Belarus, they will. And guess what they've been doing? Mobilizing troops in Belarus. So
they weren't worried strategically about the north. They've always been focused on the south,
which is why you've seen what you've seen in the south. And it's also part of the reason why
what's happening in Harrison City right now is so relevant because that is truly a strategic battle.
All stuff that happened up north was much less strategic. It wasn't worth launching a tactical
nuke because they came in, you know, up north and invaded even after they annexed that location.
It's not worth it strategically to piss off NATO and piss off the west with nuclear weapons.
This is exactly what Jim's talking about. You've got a loose cannon, an authoritarian leader who
can make basically any call he wants to make. But then he's also working within the confines
of his own system where he knows, like we talked about Julian, he may make a call and the field
officers don't obey. And that's that's part of the calculated risk he has to he has to think
through, right? So he changes battlefield commanders, battlefield commanders change their
strategy, but the strategic goal has not changed. And winter is coming. 40% of the Ukrainian electrical
grid is broken. We just really you haven't heard this now. This again, straight out of American
military war college, you attack the electrical grid, and you let winter do the fighting for you.
There's rolling blackouts in Ukraine right now. Is that there's shilling right now? No,
it's it's missiles hitting electrical relay stations. Like they can't recreate that power.
Tier one stuff, man. Yeah, happens out of the box. Why? I mean, hasn't Putin come to the table and
try to come up with a deal? Haven't haven't Ukraine and Putin like been close to deals multiple times?
They've never been close to landing a deal, right? And it's because this is super important too.
After Ukraine, after the Ukrainian electrical grid started getting attacked,
Zelensky came out and said, they will not negotiate peace with Russia until certain criteria are met.
And the criteria were completely unrealistic criteria. He wanted the original boundaries
redrawn from like 1997, a full withdrawal of Russian troops. Like it was an insane thing to
ask for. You got to start high. Yeah. So based on principle, Western principles,
we think, oh, no, that's reasonable. You invaded us, you've got to get out. The problem is,
when you're going to a negotiating table, you can't ever make it a full loss for the other person.
Yes. How's he going to rationalize to his own people, all the death, all the destruction,
all the loss? That's not a realistic negotiating position, right? What Russia's been doing is
taking territory and stopping and opening the door for communication. It's been Zelensky for
the last three or four months that has been unrealistic. And that's why you saw last week,
the United States step in, tap Zelensky on the shoulder and say, you need to show a little
more flexibility to negotiate. So what that means in clear terms is that the United States.
Yeah, but who said that? Wait a second. The Biden administration said that.
But did you hear about the progressive caucus and the letter they sent to Biden that then got like
merked? So I don't know. So they sent, they sent, there's 30 members of the progressive caucus
in Congress. Rashida Tlaib's on it, a guy, Jamie Raskin's on it. And they sent a letter to Biden
that they allegedly had drafted like a month or something ago. This is a couple weeks ago now.
And it, I read it, it's, you can find it online right now. It laid out very nicely that like,
hey, we've been happy to send aid to Ukraine. Obviously, we support their cause,
everything like that. But there is some intelligence that suggests that there could be
a possibility of having peace on the table. And that is something that for not just a good of
Ukraine to get them a W, maybe not like a full W, maybe not like Russia doesn't cease to exist,
but to get them a little W and also create peace along the border, peace for the world,
take down this whole nuclear potential and all that. Let's take a look at this.
Letter comes out next day out of nowhere. Oh no, some staff relief that we didn't really mean
to send that, which is total bullshit. Somebody like you went and tapped them on the shoulder
and said, you're not going to fucking put this out. And now we have you saying that like,
Biden's approach in Ukraine and saying, oh, you need to talk about peace.
It's, it's, it's not unknown right now. It's fairly, it's, it's fairly well covered right now
that that, and not only is it encouraged, but Zelensky has come out and publicly said that he
is willing to, he's open to negotiation. He is, he is changing the foundational requirements for
negotiation, right? He's made that a public statement now. I am open to negotiation.
Nobody talks like that. My wife's gone on Oprah and we'll get, we'll square this up.
But the other, the other thing that I think that you have to think about too is rank and file
soldier, right? So now you have Russian soldiers who are actually commiserating with and aligning
themselves with the Ukrainians. Yeah. Right. So we heard those stories right out of the box out
taking, you know, making sure the vehicles don't run, don't want to go in. Why are we here? We're
being called up to do things we don't believe in. You saw, you know, Putin sit at the end of one
table, everybody else sitting at the end, the other end eating alone, you know, all those things,
but rank and file is important. You know, so it's hearts and minds kind of stuff. That's,
that's kind of what I did in the military, the hearts and minds piece. Let's see where they're
at. Let's see if we can bring this together and find a common cause, you know, to go forward. I
mean, it's a civil war, right? So, I mean, it's the same people that were living together 25 years
ago. You know, and now they have to, they're fighting each other and they're trying to figure
out a way to reduce the death, reduce the casualties, reduce the state of mind. And I think that's
important. That's something that's kind of lost in the negotiations piece. And who knows who's
talking about that? I know we're not talking about it. I can guarantee what with Millie still there.
What do you think about Biden just going and meeting with Putin face to face? Do you think
that would happen? The reason that can't happen is because technically this isn't supposed to be
a war between the United States and Russia. Yep. What's happening is that every time the United
States gets, if you remember back in like March, French President Macron came out and said that
Biden needs to stop commenting on the conflict. It was shortly after Biden was in Poland and said,
for the love of God, nobody should let this guy rain. Let's take him out. Because what was
happening is Biden's like very overt implications of how the United States stood to benefit from
this conflict was throwing off NATO's goals. And since then, you saw the French president come in
and say, Biden back down. You've seen the German Chancellor step up and say, we need to
create a NATO without the United States military being the biggest force, which is why Germany
is doubling down on building their army. Because they're like, we need to be the largest army in
Europe so that we can drive NATO. Because right now the United States drives NATO. And if you look
at NATO's charter, guess who can join NATO? European states. Yes, it's called the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. The only North Atlantic countries that are allowed into that are not
European are Canada and the United States. Even the charter itself says we're open to new people
if they're European. So it makes no sense that Europe is basically operating at the behest of
whatever the United States chooses to do. Yeah, we were finding this article because you just
mentioned this from two days ago in the Kiev Post, so straight out of Ukraine, where the
headline is Zelensky says open to talks with Russia. And the article says exactly what you
think. So I understand. I understand the Twitter armchair analysts out there who basically want
to shit on everybody all the time. I get shit on by them too, right? Oh yeah. Zelensky is changing
this or changing that or whatever it's going to be, right? Five days ago he said this and now he's
saying that. That's the nature of conflict. Yeah. If you're not a professional soldier, if you're
not a professional public servant, you don't understand policy changes, priority shifts.
That's just how it works. Same thing's happening on the Russia side. So is it a W to use your
terminology, right? And I talked about this with Lex when Lex and I were on the Lex Freeman podcast.
Wow, W, a win doesn't look the way people think it's going to look, right? Your typical
uninformed person thinks that a win is going to look like Russia raises their hands and
gives up and leaves Ukraine alone. A win is most likely going to look like Russia says,
we'll stop here. And Ukraine says we'll accept that. And maybe there's a ceasefire and they've
still lost 20% of their territory. And what does that mean for the world if Russia now has 20%
of Ukraine, new Ukraine, new 80% of Ukraine? What does it mean for the world if Russia has 100%
of Ukraine? What did it mean for the world on February 23rd before Russia ever invaded Ukraine?
It means nothing to the world. Ukraine is not a strategic objective for anybody. Yeah. Why do
you say that? This is a Putin. This is a narcissism 101, man. Let me get what I think is mine. I'm
crazy. I'm out of my mind. We saw it. We seen it on Pennsylvania Avenue two or three years ago.
It's the same shit. So why are we pumping 100? If that's the case, obviously,
like there's a humanitarian crisis there. We're the leaders of the free world, right?
So that's what it comes down to. Julian, ask yourself the hard question,
right? You're asking the hard question right now. Yeah. What's the point? What's the point?
Why is the United States involved in this? It has nothing to do with Ukraine's independence or
sovereignty helping the United States. Do we own them? Is that part of a client state over there?
Even if you did, like what do you own? You own a poverty-stricken country that's
on the verge of a failing democracy. That was before it was invaded.
You want to know what you get out of this conflict? The United States gets to practice
logistical shipments of large-scale weapons and movements across the world in time for a real
battle. You want to know what the United States gets out of it? They get to burn through old surplus
weaponry and test experimental weaponry on an active battlefield. Why is that beneficial to the
United States? Because our real threat is 7,000 miles away. Yep. And if we don't get a chance to
practice a protracted war halfway across the globe, then we're going to get caught with our
pants down when China invades Taiwan. Because guess how far away China is from Taiwan? Only 80
miles further than Russia was from Ukraine. Well, according to one China Danny here,
Taiwan is a part of China. That's not one China Danny. That's one China Biden, too.
Sleepy Joe's got a big meeting on Tuesday. This will all go away. Don't worry. Don't fret.
He's got it under control. Isn't China already shooting fucking missiles towards Taiwan? Absolutely.
That's they're showing. They're showing what their capability is. What happened a few weeks ago
with maybe a month ago now? I think it's been a while. But there was the Communist
party meeting in China and you had, I forget the fucking guy's name and all. Who didn't tell?
Yeah, that dude. Xi Jinping, yeah. He was like this old dude sitting next to Xi Jinping and then
like security came in and like started yanking his ass out of the chair and Xi's just sitting.
That was like the ultimate like, yeah, sorry, fam. Like, don't know what's going on. Like,
what happened there? Historians and politicians. I'm sorry. Historians and political scientists
around the world cringe when Julian talks about world international. This fucking old guy sitting
This guy gets ripped up. It's on TikTok.
He puts a new school spin on it. I've never heard anybody who knows more about the CIA and
the FBI and the US government than Julian. I swear to God. There's a Harvard professor
somewhere sitting there like, I made a career out of studying political science.
So that this guy could call Hujintan some old guy. Imagine David Satter sitting across from
me 50 years, like financial times, like Moscow correspondent. I'm saying shit like this. He's
like, oh, gotcha. But anyway, yeah, what happened? Jim, I'm doing a bunch of talks.
I'm jumping in, man. I'm listening. I'm learning. I don't want to say I'm learning.
You know me. It's just all about breaking tolerable. We have to figure this out. We've never
done for like, there's never been, has there been a podcast with FBI and CIA, the same table
right before 9 11. I'm only kidding. It did not happen. It did not happen. This is good. We're
actually setting the mark here. We're bringing high watermark right here, boys. That's going to get
clipped one step at a time. That's going to be in documentaries. But no, in all honesty,
I do think this is a pretty cool parent. It's really cool. This is something that probably,
I'm honestly, it could probably never happen if we were active CIA, active DOD or active FBI,
because there would be so much bureaucracy to get through. Somebody would say no, it would be too
high risk. The editing would be outrageous. The ownership rights would be outrageous.
I mean, publicly, you guys aren't active, but probably. Yeah, according to the comments,
you guys are, you guys are both still active. You get a description of the old guy, they get
ripped out of the chair. That might have been me. No, I'm going to kill him. No, he was Asian.
Who was the guy that got ripped out of the chair? So that was his name was Hu Jintao. So who can we
find that? Yeah, what you, what you saw, you speak Chinese too. So you were definitely listening.
My Chinese is rusty. If you can imagine, like, like cobwebs and an attic kind of thing. That's
what my, you haven't been keeping up. How long did it take you to learn Chinese?
Technically, it took me four years to speak at a fifth grade level. So yeah, the military
taught me for a long time and it never got very good. Where were you Monterey? No, I was actually
the Air Force Academy. Yeah. All right. Monterey is the best link I asked for Monterey, but yeah,
that's out of budget. Yeah. No, the, so what you saw with, it's called the party congress,
you saw the, I think it was the 20th party congress, it's the party congress that happens,
or maybe in the 50th, but it happens every two years, every 10 years, something like that.
There's so much video, it's going to be hard to find a good one. The Jerusalem post.
Yeah. Very reliable, very reliable source right there. Is it? No.
Not even close. It might as well just be called Israel's always right. The world is always wrong
post. Wow. This is how it happened the rest of your stupid. See you at the club.
But yeah, what you're seeing happening between China right now and the West, right? Let's just
collectively call it the West, is Xi Jinping is correctly realizing that this is a time to
demonstrate unity and power in the East, because the West is struggling under democracy,
right? You've got NATO arguing with each other's members. You've got,
you've got Hungary, a NATO partner altogether, actively trying to propose that Russia should
be left alone, right? Like you've got internal conflict in NATO. You have the disaster of what
our midterm elections just turned into, right? Basically, another gridlock, continued gridlock
with transfer of power looking like it's most likely going to go to the Republicans in Congress,
which means the purse strings of the government are going to get tied down. So blue Senate,
blue executive, a red Congress, that just means money's getting tight. It doesn't mean that we're
going to start getting along. If anything, it means we're as divided as we've ever been.
And these elections are showing that. It's right down the middle. So what Xi Jinping
wants to do is he knows that the win for China and the win for Chinese influence around the
world is to show that China can get stuff done, where the West can't even figure out their own
backyard. But why is he taking a senior citizen out of like the nursing home? Because Hu Jintao
is the only other person that carries anywhere near as much influence as Xi Jinping. He doesn't
look like he knows what he ate for lunch today. Yeah. Don't mistake the way that an old man looks.
He sat in Xi's seat or Xi's out there. Look at this. Look at Xi's face. That is the ultimate,
like throw some sunglasses on him with a cigarette and say, not in here, bitch.
He's like, oh, yeah. So this is also important because if you watch,
if you try to resist, so if you get, no, he's not resisting, he's just an old guy. He's asking
questions. You see him keep reaching for that sheet of paper? He's trying to ask, listen up, Julian.
He's trying to ask questions about why changes were made to the panel without his approval.
And now as he's being marched out, watch how nobody looks at him. Nobody looks at him because
they realize this is a move that she is making. So they're not looking, no eye contact, no eye
contact. And these are all people that have worked under Hu Jintao and they're all essentially
demonstrating their deferral to Xi Jinping. This is a clear message to the world that Xi Jinping
is the consolidated source of power in China and that they are unified behind Xi Jinping.
So what happened to him? Yeah, we don't know. We don't know. Probably nothing. I mean, the dude
is a legend in China. He's probably living in some nice pagoda up in the mountains just being left
alone. Right. He got a nice retirement package. They gave him Pebble Beach. It's too big to just
be disappeared. Too important to be disappeared. But could you imagine that ever happening here?
Imagine somebody walking sleepy Joe out. He'd go the wrong way. Oh my gosh. So that guy is
equivalent to like what? He's equivalent to like Xi Jinping before Xi Jinping. Yeah, he was when
Bush was around and Obama pushed him. Yeah, he's the guy that essentially modernized China,
brought China into the fold of world superpowers. Why do you talk about, and I think some of it's
obvious to people listening, but I just want to hear you express it, like when you're always going
right to China as the main adversary here, and you to quote you on the Patrick Bet David podcast,
you said you were stationed in Asia. You're not allowed to say where, but what languages do you
speak again? Thai, Chinese and Japanese. Okay. So you said you do the math, right? So obviously,
this is a topic you know something about like what makes them the ultimate threat and like what's
your worst case scenario with our relations with China over the next 10 years? Pardon this brief
interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been
using for over a year now, after it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist Dr. Dominic
D'Agostino on this podcast. I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition,
diet and longevity, because as we get older, these things become more and more important.
That is why I started using Verso. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific
breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase longevity. I take cell being this one
right here, which contains nicotine amide mononucleotide or NMN based supplement, paired with
naturally derived, micronized, trans resveratrol and TMG. These two chemicals are actually precursors
to what's called nicotanamide, iodine, dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD. And NAD is
essentially the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity. If you've ever tried fasting or even
intermittent fasting and you've gotten that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity is because
your body is activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes. The
downside is as we age, NAD declines. When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation
of sirtuins and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold. And it is so
much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your entire order. That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get
15% off your entire order or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E. It's linked below,
back to the show. I look, here's what I, when I think about, and this has been going on forever,
as long as I've been serving, it's been the same deal. And the fact of the matter is the bureau has
really not geared up on the side of foreign counterintelligence on that side of the house.
They've worried about other things that are here in our backyard in their mind, what they can see,
the drugs, you know, the murder, the organized crime. In the meantime, they're just destroying
every part of what we do and how we do it. And what I always look at is look at the focus on the
face of 18 and 19 year old Chinese Communist Party soldiers. Look at that. Look at the ferocity
that comes with that. Look at, then look at our kids, our generation. Our military recruitment
crisis right now. Exactly. We can, we actually lowered our standard by 10,000 and missed the quota
by 15,000. We're not even getting new soldiers into our military. We can't do it. We can't find,
and what they say is, well, we don't really want the kid with, you know, some type of indictment
or some type of misdemeanor, because you just don't know. Listen, we have no choice. Like I said,
lowered it, lowered it by 10,000, missed it by 15. This has never happened, ever, ever in the history
of the military. So what do we do now? So then you got people talking about, well, we should have,
you know, a two week service after high school, and then you go, come on, you're fucking crazy.
Parents will be, that'll be the most corrupt program in the history of the United States,
as parents are buying their kids way out of it. So that's, it starts there. It starts with the
commitment to country and cause. And so whatever's done there, and obviously we can only imagine
what's done in order to keep that in place. And it's a high drive, you know, the culture is a high
drive culture, want to succeed, want to do more, want to come to the States, study at our Ivy
League universities, do the things that they do. And it just carries over into, I would love to know
what that guy was trying to put forward. What was he asking? Yeah, I'll never find that out.
That's just right. The reason that you see me jump right to China is because of three main things,
right? First, we spent 20 years, just like Jim was saying, we spent 20 years fighting a global
war on terrorism. Guess who wasn't involved in the global war on terrorism? China. So that means
all of our money, all of our effort, all of our attention was fighting a transnational threat
that China wasn't spending any time or any money on. And they were building. They were building,
and they were perfecting how they could penetrate the West because the West was distracted.
And how are they doing that? Now here's, so that let's move on to point number two.
And watching our mistakes by them, watching what we did wrong. Whenever you go down into a mine,
right, back in the day, miners used to take, what was it, a parrot? A parakeet?
Canary. Canary, yeah. They used to take a canary down into a mine, right? The reason,
and it was because the canary, when the canary bit the dust, that's how they would know that
there wasn't enough oxygen to keep the miners alive so they could get out. Our canary is Australia.
Australia knows that. They've been our canary for a long time. So guess what happened about four
years ago? Australia realized that Chinese were sending Chinese students, Chinese professors,
Chinese mining experts into Australia, specifically to undermine Australian politics,
Australian student mindset and ideology. Mission accomplished. And guess who? Australia's most
important exporter, export import partner is? China. And they were so upset that Australians,
God love them because they're just a fearless bunch of savages sometimes.
They were like, we caught you, China. We're going to let the whole world know we caught you
and we're going to penalize you. Even though they know that penalizing China means penalizing
themselves, right? So Australia's been in this battle with the Chinese for like the last five
years. But why were they the most totalitarian in the lens of what China was trying to do with
when the pandemic just kept going on and on? Don't, you're distracted. That's an offshoot.
That's not relevant to your first question, right? So we have our canary. So my three
points, right? First, they didn't participate in the global war on terror. So they were just,
they were mastering their future plan because they had a 50 year plan, right?
Then we have our canary go off, go off in Australia. And now the third point,
they're poised to become the world's economic superpower by 2032. Economics is what drives
everything in human existence, right? The more money you make, the more money you can spend
developing weapons, the more military you can build, the more everybody else wants to be your
friend because you have the most money. What made the United States the superpower that we are?
Economics. Our economics are starting to fall behind Chinese economics. China knows that. So
they're very focused on becoming the world's economic superpower. And once they're the economic
superpower, then it's very, very hard for us to catch up after that, which is why you see the
race kicking up now. Trump kind of called attention to it, but the world hated Trump. So the world
was kind of not open to his point of view. But one of the only policies that carried on
from the Trump administration into the Biden administration were the China policies.
Yes, I'm seeing that a lot.
So those are my three points. Sorry to cut you off.
No, no, no, that was perfect.
That's outstanding. I mean, that's outstanding. And you think about, they're all in as well.
You know, we have, I know we have offices near every major university. We at least have one
person that sits, that's, you know, an experienced counterintelligence person as experienced as the
bureau can be. And they sit outside these universities and they recruit assets within
to find out what the deal is, whether or not they're, you know, actually like a proactive
asset, somebody that's trying to do things to harm US or whether they're just gathering
information. And if you go to any major financial institution and or investment bank in the city,
you will find interns within that organization who are being recalled back to China in order to
report. And then, and we're allowing it to happen. We are, we are kind of nervous about whether or
not we should hire or fire or get rid of or even do background checks on these people,
where they're coming from, what they're doing, what their incentive is, what their orders are,
why they're going back, working for six weeks at a major New York corporation that's
moving and shaking and then heading back for six weeks and then coming back to the States.
So Chinese, Chinese students make up the largest contingent of foreign students going
to American law schools. Yep. One out of every three of those graduates goes back to China.
Why? Is it because they want to learn how to use our laws against us?
We don't know what they do when they go back to China, but what we do know is that China knows
China's strategy, if you look at what they did in Hong Kong, if you look at how they've handled
the Bahamas, if you look at how they handle the Central America, it certainly suggests.
What they do in the Bahamas? The FDX? They own the Bahamas, right?
FDX. Hold on. Where were you guys? Where are they? Where were both of you on Monday?
Where is that money? That is fucking crazy. What's the bank account, Jim? At least he got dressed
for his interview. Yo, what is the story with the kid? Sorry, I digress. Are you aware of the kid?
What's the story with the kid? Is Sammy Bankman fine? Yes. The kid who got found drowned off the
coast of Puerto Rico. Whoa, no, wait a minute. Talk to me. Yeah. I got to send you the article.
Julian sent me the article to it, but there was a kid who posted on Twitter. He said,
if you find, you tell the story. The founder of MakerDAO you're talking about, right?
Yes. The kid who says, if I show up dead, I did not commit suicide, and then he showed up drowned.
Yeah, so he sent out a tweet. This guy, Nikolai, something. I'm going to text it to you. Michael.
He was one of the co-founders of MakerDAO. He sends out a tweet on October 28th that says
something to the effect of, I don't have it in front of me, but it's like, I'm down in the Caribbean.
My girlfriend turned out to be a spy. I am not going to kill myself, but if I died,
there's an Israeli U.S. pedo ring or something going on. It sounded a little crazy going on down
here. And then naturally, people ran right with Epstein because that was obviously something that
happened. And so two weeks later, you have, it's just weird that FTX and it's SBF, but what's the
guy's name? Sam Bankman. He's right up here. Freed. Yeah, Sam Bankman Freed. I was saying it wrong,
but Sam Bankman Freed, the CEO of FTX, that whole exchange crashes and he's in the Caribbean,
in the Bahamas, and people are just like right away like, oh, it could absolutely have nothing to do
with it, but to crypto guys, because by the way, the dude who sent out that tweet found drowned
two weeks later or two days later. So actually died. And now this all crashes and every single
cryptocurrency like realm of the industry was tied in some way to FTX. So Jim, Jim, they don't want,
they don't want to hear my comments. No, I want to hear it. We got to get back to the Bahamas.
Do we need a tinfoil hat for this on the Chinese? I want to know that. Yeah. No, you need to take
off your tinfoil hat if you're going to listen to me. Yeah. Exactly. And Frick and Julian's got
a beautiful tinfoil hat sometimes. He does. I envy it. Did you get the article, Michael?
Okay. So essentially, let's let's start with FTX, because I think this is super important, right?
So if you take FTX by itself, right, what was FTX for anybody who who isn't super into crypto?
FTX is is argue was arguably the second largest foreign exchange
exchange or currency, cryptocurrency, open market exchange place available to anybody
in cryptocurrency, right? The first largest is a place called Binance. The second largest was FTX,
right? Or was was Sam Bankman Fried Freed's company? Who had Binance? Who is that? Let's get
to that in a second. So Binance made a play to buy FTX, right? That was the play. Everything
rallied. Everybody's happy. Now, what kind of market have we been in for the last nine months?
Down market, six months, down market, right? What have crypto currencies done for the last
six months, crashed and decreased in value, right? And what's FTX looking for? Looking for a way to
subsidize the fact that they've lost a shit ton of money. Because when people when they lose money,
what that means is people are taking their cryptocurrency out and exchanging it for fiat
currency. So if you remember, it's a wonderful life. If you guys remember that movie, yeah,
great movie. Yeah. Do you remember the run on the bank? Yes. That's exactly what happened in
cryptocurrency. People saw their assets were decreasing in value. So they made a run on the
bank and they started taking their money out. And it wasn't there. It wasn't there. Exactly right.
When Binance found out it wasn't there, then they pulled out. Do you know what they did before that?
So now what you've got, what you've got is essentially FTX standing by itself,
over leveraged, under resourced in a crash, right? Now, so that's how the whole crash happened.
Has nothing to do with the Bahamas, has nothing to do with anything else. Do you know about before
though? But what Binance did before? Go ahead. You didn't say it. This is important context.
Binance announced, I guess like eight or nine days ago, that they were selling their 2.1 billion
or something reserves of FTT, which is the token of FTX. And they didn't say why, but they said,
you know, we'd like to be responsible for the market and do it in an orderly manner. And that's
what that's what that was the main driver to cause people to withdraw it. So then they were looking
to buy it and then they're like, Oh, no, your balance sheet's fucked. It's sketchy. It's very
sketchy. I'm not saying it's not sketchy. Now let's go back to the question that Jim asked,
who owns Binance? Anybody care to guess? CZ? No, I'm going to guess that's not the answer.
No, it's it's it's a Chinese organization. And let me ask you this question. Is cryptocurrency
legal in China? No, no, it was outlawed two months ago. I thought mining was
mining still alive and well. But they have no problem using Chinese servers to mine it and
then sell it to the United States. But there is no cryptocurrency allowed inside China,
until China creates their own state, state controlled, right? That's amazing. So basically,
if you want, you want, let me put on my tin hat now. You basically have a Chinese firm,
knowing that they can mess with the market and have zero impact on their own people,
make a large reinvestment of currency into the market. What happens when you flood a market
with currency, you decrease the value of that currency. So they they cause a flood,
they decrease the value. And then they make two public announcements that basically bring into
question. FTX, they're only competitor and the second largest crypto company out there.
Were they looking to crash it? Probably not. They were probably just looking to cause
pain the same week as a midterm on the verge of whether or not we were going to be going into
a recession. They're probably just looking to cause pain at all. But this was in excess of
the pain they were looking to create. And now what we essentially have is the largest cryptocurrency
exchange in the world is controlled by the Chinese, which is the only country in the world that doesn't
use crypto. What's your average age of the crypto investor? What generation is that?
21, maybe? Right?
So who are the folks that control these midterms? What voter? What group? 20 to 29s?
Well, these midterms, I have no idea. Nice job, Chinese.
Yeah, this is, it's a big economic war. Now, do I see every ghost as the Chinese? No, I don't see
every ghost as the Chinese. But when it comes to economics, when it comes to economics,
when it comes to economics, they're savvy. They're super savvy. And it's really interesting
that they're so savvy because in their system, economics works completely differently.
But when you have one out of every three lawyers studying US law, going back to China,
they've all got gainful employment when they get there.
How effective is China's intelligence apparatus? I mean, I assume it's very effective, but like
relative to the CIA, relative to the FSB, Mossad, like where, how do you view
what China is capable of and how they go about doing the job?
Cutthroat. That's the difference. What we do is really good. What they do is cutthroat. They
have no problem. They have work casualties. There are dozens. Yeah, work casualties is not an issue.
It's a different MO. It's a different motorcycle brandy. Yeah. Like we're trying to be clandestine.
We try to get in, get out. Nobody knows that we're there. It's important.
The Chinese are bulls in a China shop. They want to come in, break everything,
and leave a calling card because then guess what? Then we talk about it, right? They left a calling
card when they hacked into the office of personal management system with the DOD.
They stole like 60% of the records in OPM.
By the way, my ex is trying to get a settlement. I mean, I'm like whatever.
And then they told the whole world we did it, right? And then the whole world was like,
oh, shit, the Chinese can hack into the American like military personnel system.
That's how they do it. It's the exact opposite of what Russia does. It's a totally different
MO. They don't need to be clandestine because they basically have a culture where every Chinese
person who affiliates with the mainland in any way, no matter where they are in the world,
aligns as a mainlander first, right? They're a Chinese something. Chinese, American, Chinese,
French, Chinese, whatever, but they're Chinese first. What is their ultimate goal?
Economic superiority. I think just like 19 to 12 right now. So you think by 2032.
That's not me. That's economics. They passed that. Yeah. Yeah. If you just look at the numbers
that are out there posted by Harvard Business Review, by Brookings Institute, they're predicted
to be the economics superpower by... Well, Apple's trying to take their slave trade out of China
and put it in Vietnam now. Trying. They're trying. Are more companies going to do that? Because
obviously, that's the one thing about COVID. I don't understand because they've basically,
with going so with China, I'm talking about going so hard on COVID, they shocked the system and
forced multinationals around the world, not just in the US, to have to evaluate their supply chains
within China and adjust to other places, which is literally the opposite of what China should want.
No? China knows that they're always going to have... We're calculating time like Americans.
Americans look at time as like, two years is a long time. And now you're right.
Right. And even in our government, the longest, I think in our government, the longest approved
budget is five years. That's right. Is that right? Is there a longer budget than that? That's exactly
right. And then you have the contingency, the holdover that goes on for maybe six months
before it's renewed. In China, like one man can basically write a line item that lasts 35 years.
That's probably what happened. Isn't that a big problem that we, when presidents only last four
years here? Technically, presidents only last two years here, because then they spend two years
running for re-election. Right. Exactly. Either running or in second term,
lame ducking. Yeah. You know, if they're not paying attention, they have nothing. Yeah,
not paying attention. How much power do you think the president has these days? I think the president
in large part has mixed power, right? There's the executive order power, because what's happened
for like 20 years is Congress has been letting the president make whatever decisions they want to
make. We saw Obama create the most executive orders in history until Trump came around,
until Biden came around. Like we are now to a place where we are basically
policying through executive orders, because, you know, nobody else, unless you own the Senate
and the House, it's impossible to get anything through. So the president has been getting a
lot of power, but their power has always lied with the Congress. It's just when Congress outsources
their power to the executive branch, then they get to, they get to claim that it's not their fault
when they run for re-election, which they have to do every two years.
So what is this story? This is the guy, this is the kid who drowned, right? What exactly did he
say? Nikolai Moshigin. Balance or labs. Okay. Has drowned in Puerto Rico, local media say. He
developed, he's the developer of MakerDAO. So yeah, go to his tweet. There's his tweet.
CIA and Mossad and pedo elite are running some kind of sex trafficking entrapment black male
ring out of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean islands. They are going to frame me with a laptop planted
by my ex-girlfriend who was a spy. They will torture me to death. And yeah, I think this is
pretty, I mean, this is pretty tied up nice and a little bow. Jim, this is, there's no way to question
this. Except it happened on Twitter. He's probably verified.
He was not. This is before he drowned before, unfortunately. Before he could get Twitter
blue. Elon hadn't released it yet. Just don't see how that could possibly happen,
you know, without him actually doing it. But drowning is a hell of a way to go.
You know what the Bahamas is, right? What the Bahama Triangle? It's a series of islands.
What do you think the most common way of dying in the Bahamas probably is? It's not going to be
like getting shot by a gang member. Do you think a guy who's inventing crypto on the computer every
day is out there going for a fucking swim? No, this guy's not going in the water. Come on.
I'm thinking a guy who's inventing crypto every day probably got drunk one day,
got caught in a riptide and didn't have the what it took to swim back. How perfectly,
but two weeks after he posted this, two days, two days, I think two weeks, you guys. So you guys
said two weeks and two days. No, October 28th is the tweet he was dead by Halloween.
You sure he wasn't dressed as somebody else?
Or did he just or was it like a look? Was he trying to get attention to commit suicide or
something? I mean, you're the same and you're the same guy who's back in the day. You're the
same guy who sat on a Reddit feed when you were doing an AMA. One of the questions was,
what does the CIA and they may have said and other intelligence organizations do
that crosses the line of morals? Like, are they into whether it be like sex trafficking or having
to do things that are totally insane to be able to get intelligence? And you answered it very,
very honestly. Incredibly honestly, you said something to the effect of there are things that
make me lose sleep at night that we do that I'd rather not talk about in a Reddit form here,
which is not no. Right. It's not no. If you look at this, this has so many red flags in it
that make me just. It does. So we've got to take that for what it is. Did the guy die two days later?
Yes. Yeah. Is that correlation or is that causation? We don't really know. Right. Right.
You tell me that you tell me that a potentially unfit guy drowns in the Bahamas. Okay. That's
unfortunate. And then you show me a tweet that says CIA and Mossad and pedo elite. Yeah. It's a
lot. Some kind of sex. But wait, but then it gets even better. It's a black male entrapment ring
out of Puerto Rico. So unpredicated. And oh, by the way, I will be framed by my ex-girlfriend
using my laptop because she's a spy. Okay. But you know how many perfect things have to line up
for this to be true? Where's the laptop? Has anybody interviewed the girl? Well, scroll down.
We asked that question. Scroll down. It's actually with Hunter. Where's the laptop? Exactly. Scroll
down. So yeah, this this has got me not suspicious. Yeah. But how do you but this has got like
was the dude knocked off by some like some organized criminal for some other reason who knows this one
here. Okay. Oh, this is just dark, dark theme. All right. They will torture me to death. Yep.
What day was this? The same day? 28. 28. That's the same tweet. Oh, it's the same tweet. I missed
the torture me to death. Yeah. Yeah. Admittedly, when I hear the words like CIA, Mossad and pedo
it seems like a lot. Three possible futures for me. One, suicided by the CIA. Two, CIA brain
damaged slave asset. Three, worst nightmare of people who fucked with me up until now. I am
sure these are that's it. I mean, that's a tough three. You guys, I could see, I could see you
guys taking a trip down memory lane. You're like, oh, yeah, I remember that. Suicide by CIA. That's
one. I don't like that. CIA brain damaged slave asset. Okay. So I really don't know what happened.
I mean, a brain damaged slave asset is super useful. It's really good. But have we done, all
right. In a serious manner, and I don't like, see my issue with people online who complain about
everything just to do it, like the Twitter, I can tell you exactly why CIA wouldn't kill this guy
because of this conversation. That is exactly why they wouldn't touch this guy. And then this
reverse psychology person would say, and that's exactly why they would. Yeah. And the reverse
psychology and the one believes it and the reverse psychology person would never, right,
would never have actual insight into what happens at CIA because they specialize in reverse psychology.
But the people who are online who just complain about the CIA all day and say like,
defund the CIA, defund the FBI and shit, like, I don't, I think that's insane because you,
you have to have this stuff. You are, you're a powerful country. People out there want this
country dead, right? Like there's enemies in the world, whether you like it or not, that's what it
is. But it doesn't mean that like a guy like me who knows that also wouldn't know or not know,
also wouldn't be able to speculate that perhaps things in this realm happen. And by the way,
if given the context, not that I would ever deserve it because I'm some private guy in a
fucking armchair, but if given the context, I'd say, wow, that really sucks. But I get it.
Life without CIA or FBI is like life without food and water. Yeah. Right. I would,
I would assign CIA is going without CIA is like going without food. You're going to last a while.
It's just not going to be pretty going without FBI. That's like going without water. You know what
this country would turn into in about three days without the federal Bureau of Investigation doing
what it does. I mean, well, you correct me if I'm wrong, man. I think you're absolutely right.
My issue is just the leadership at the top at this point, I think needs to be,
we don't have the meticulous. Well, let me not say that. That's not true. We have a good portion
of the Bureau who is meticulous about their investigations. We have a good portion of the
agency who is meticulous about their asset collection and how they utilize that information
and report it. I think the biggest problem that I see is those folks that are leading the charge
that have become politicized, especially in my organization, you know, have become politicized
getting the huge headline. You know, looking at these elections and what the Bureau has done
and basically saying just why not just realize American votes are not for the person who's
running against the red. It's because they just hate the person who is going to run for the red.
That's what it comes down to. So how do we not meticulously go through this and figure out where
it's coming from? We know where it's coming from. It's out there. It's coming from China,
period. That's where it's coming from. It's where it's been coming from since 2013.
That's what it is. And I don't understand all these other things are based on the fact that this
is someone who is brilliant in certain ways with regards to what he did on the crypto side,
but really has no understanding of how things work, even on a basic level.
Yeah. He only saw three futures and these were the three futures.
That's it. And he said, I am sure these are the only options. I am sure of it.
Okay. Okay. There's plenty of other options. Like,
shit, you should have swam before you went and not add 15 drinks and two blows of coke.
And nothing, maybe this would not have happened. But I get it. I get it. But I think that's kind
of where we're at. I totally agree. Without us, it's impossible to move forward. But we need to
do a much better job at what we're doing. It's funny because you landed on something that's
a distinct difference between the two agencies. FBI wants to get into the headlines. They want
to show their impact. They want to show their victories. They want to be able to secure future
funding. CIA wants to stay out of headlines. Absolutely. We actually have a quote unquote
Washington Post test. Like that is something that every manager and CIA is familiar with.
A Washington Post test? When you propose an operation or when you propose five operations
to solve a problem, the first sniff test that we all have after we lay the five options on the
table and they're like, okay, guys, Washington Post test, which of these five options is going to
land on the front page of the Washington Post if we fuck this up? I love that. And then if there's
two or three of them, boom, they're gone. And you have the editor right there. And we most
likely have the exact opposite test. How do we get this in the Washington Post? Yeah. Seriously.
Nope. That's not going to do it. Oh, that is, there it is. There it is. Let's go to, let's go
raid the house when we can just use a fourth width subpoena. Let's go raid the house with boats and
choppers and everything else. Public deterrent, private deterrent. That's really, I mean, it's
two different, it's two different worlds, right? The American people want to see the FBI doing
their job. They want to see the FBI raiding a house with like jackets and helicopters and big
guns. What they don't want to see is the way that China gets a North Korean general to give us the
placements on a missile. They don't want to see the bill for how much booze we send him. They don't
want to know that we sent the guy on a paid vacation to Thailand to sex, to sex tourism
themselves. Silly. Like they don't want to, they don't want to see that. I thought he was going
somewhere. How'd you like that? How'd you like to have that job? A lot of grenades out there,
if you know what I mean. Playing volleyball in a minefield. Yeah, something like that.
But it's, I mean, at the end of the day, too, when you look at the two organizations and their
history, it does all come back to like pre-911 is where the conversation goes because, and you
were there obviously after, but you know about this because we talked about it. You were there
before pre-911. See, like not a lot of FBI agents are like you, Jim, like with your background.
For people who don't know, like you went, you were West Point Army Ranger. You did undercover
missions around the world on behalf of the Army. Well, I'm still an active Army officer.
Right. Right. And it's almost, it's over four years. You were recruited by both, right? FBI and
CIA. So you, you always had a network across agencies. So you got along with people, but I
think that's what it is. It's relationships first. And we forgot that along the way. So it became
competition. So it came who the asshole was here versus who the asshole was there. And we both
have assholes. And in the buildup to that, 9-11 gets caught in the middle because you had like,
I mean, we've seen the looming tower. You read the book. Yeah. Very good. That was real. Very
good. There was, there was basically John Neil had a huge personality. So, so did some of the others.
Right. And so you had like this butting heads. And then after 9-11, it seems like there's still
when you talk to certain guys, like you had Kiriyako in here, he was talking about it with
like the FBI, like joking, like, Oh God, the fucking FBI. Like there's still some of that.
But there was a lot more work integrated together around the world.
Started to connect the dots together as opposed to separately comparing after
we looked at them and said, well, we don't understand. So how does that work though?
That's the question. That's my question.
Relationships 101 and actually having the ability to meticulously and systematically
going through the problem. Yeah. But pre 9-11, there was not a large
impetus for, for collaboration. Right. FBI was focused on what FBI was.
CIA was focused on what CIA was. Keep in mind too, CIA was small before 9-11.
I don't know how much the 9, I don't know how much the 9-11 commission impacted hiring at FBI.
It did. It pumped it up pretty good. And it also moved us into that world where I think I said,
before the broken toys went to counterterrorism, an organization. Oh my God,
the dude's not coming to work. He's not doing it. You know what? Send him over to CT. In the
meantime, we got, you know, basically memos saying, Hey, there's dudes down in Arizona that just want
to learn how to, they don't need caring about taking off or flying or landing. I can see the
comments. Yeah. 63 pages, you know. So anyway, so that was pre 9-11. So then 9-11 happens,
everybody, everybody sees what happens at 9-11. Right. And then when the 9-11 commission report
investigation starts and 9-11 commission starts, now they start picking up the scrappings on the
scraps on the floor and they start saying, Hey, FBI said this, CIA said this, they sent it to each
other. Neither side actually read it. Like if you, if the average person understood how
like incredibly administrative and mundane the life is of a CIA or FBI officer,
they would immediately reject it and turn on Netflix and watch the next spy movie. Right.
It is an incredibly dull, boring, detail oriented life, which is why you keep hearing Jim refer
back to systematic meticulous because you have to be meticulous. You have to be systematic.
300 Intel reports could come in from each side and then there's one nugget, one thread that
ties five of them together. The only way you see that is if you meticulously come through each one
and they're written in completely different formats with completely different acronyms,
completely different languages, not to mention the fact that when CIA sends FBI a memo,
the FBI analyst has to compare that against all the other new FBI memos that came in the same day
and justify why he's reading one memo over another to his boss. It's like, it's, it's not an
excuse. It's a reality of what existed before 9-11. And then on top of that, you had multiple
different times. So you have Cold War culture permeating. Our big enemy was the Soviet Union
still because don't forget the Soviet Union fell in, what, 91? So, and then the Soviet states fell
apart and we were like, oh, what are we going to do now? It was the beginning of the global war on
terror. So the world was a very, very different place in 2001 when this happened. What do you mean
it was the beginning of the global war on terror? 2001 was the beginning of the global war. Oh,
I thought you said 91. Well, no, talking about the fall, fall of Soviet Union and really how
many agents and operate, you know, you had 10 years there where we were basically enemy and
targetless. What are we going to focus on? We're going to focus on crime. We're going to focus on,
I guess, collecting. Yeah. So I mean, that all went away. Like at one point in time, New York
office, 1200 agents in the New York office, 1000 of them were working, you know, spy stuff, wandering
around the streets following. And that was a good way to kind of, you know, Russian spies. I mean,
we had the Soviet Union, we had the Soviet block, we needed to do that. We thought,
let everything else go. And that's happened through the course of the bureau. That's happened
over time too. We've had directors, you know, Bob Mueller came in, Comey came in with their
different, hey, we don't, we don't work organized crime. We think we really did a great job on that.
It's over. Okay. Yeah, that's not going on anymore. Mission accomplished. You know, Bush, yeah.
But it's just kind of, yeah, mission accomplished. But that's kind of, I think the other thing is,
our solution to the failure to connect dots together was to change our reporting system.
Okay, we need to put in a new system that allows people to search. That's not what it is. It's
basically putting analysts side by side with both the agency and us and trying to get down to the
facts, get up system down, get your operations down, get your system down. So you understand
when something comes in, how it flows and how to be efficient, how to be effective to get the
information out to people who are doing the interrogations, doing the interviews, you know,
doing the search warrants, convincing US attorney's office that this is important.
And here's the reasons why, because we've got, we've corroborated with the agency. They've corroborated
with us, certain facts. We got it asked backwards. Oh, no, we just need a new $170 million computer
system. No, you don't, because if no one knows what to do with it, it doesn't really matter.
And we're going to, we're going to pay Deloitte to tell us that we need that.
Exactly. And then we're going to get the big four. And then we're going to pay,
we're going to pay Microsoft to build it custom for us. Exactly. And by the way, Deloitte has
the guys that left the bureau because they saw it coming and said, you know what,
I'll just be a consultant for Deloitte on this project. Yeah. And I'll make a million dollars
as opposed to 171, 268, 39, and a good year. If the budget was continuing. But seriously.
You say that number in your sleep, I can tell. Yeah. Like sometimes you're something.
I, I cruise past that. I was at 172 something. You were up there.
Wow. Crank. Crank. But like, what did you guys have with, obviously that's, that's good
color commentary on, I guess, like the way that the approaches need to mesh. But when you guys did
suddenly start entering all kinds of missions with each other internationally, right? Like I'm,
I'm focused on the war on terrorism right now after, after 2001. Like it always seems to me
when I'm reading these stories or here or reading a book or someone recounting it,
that like the, the overlap is you guys are all kind of doing the same thing,
even though you're coming from technical different expertise in a way, like cop spies supposed to
be. It seems like, for example, like the alzabeta thing when, when you had it in Kiriako in here
talking about it, like they're all the FBI and CIA, like if, if you were just someone looking
on the street and like trying to evaluate who's wearing what uniform you wouldn't even know
without the letters on their back. So yeah, I would, I mean, there's significant differences
to somebody who knows what to look for, but you're right. So the, to the average bobblehead out there,
to me, yeah, they're not going to know the difference between us, right? If you saw me and Jim,
if we're doing our job right, you're going to underestimate both of us and just walk by as
both, right? You're going to be like, ah, handsome old guy, ah, handsome hairy guy, and you're going
to move on with your life in an ideal world. They don't think they give us handsome though.
No, no, definitely not. But that's very true. But that's how we want to look. That's how we,
we want to look to the average bobblehead, like we're nothing. That's, it's what we want. The
thing is, once you're actually, once you actually know how the two sides work, once you can identify
the culture or the personality differences or the unique aspects of each of us in that way, it,
it becomes more clear, right? There's, there's a certain edge to FBI officers because they,
they deal with the scum of the universe in their own country, right? Every time they go head to
head against an American criminal, like that's, it's a personal affront because this is an American
citizen who they're sworn to protect, who's now like threatening them and threatening the country
they stand for. For us, we never go head to head with an American scumbag. Our scumbags are all
foreign scumbags who really we want to use to gain an edge for the American people. So we kind
of want to enable them to continue being scumbags, completely different mentality. So we are much
more conniving and manipulative. They are much more like direct and in your face. They're law
enforcement. They have a badge and a gun and they're not afraid to use either one. For us,
we intentionally want to hide everything we have until the last possible moment. So when you,
when you get to know us, you'll see the difference fast. The FBI did move more, a little bit more
towards intelligence gathering. That was smaller. I mean, that was 9 11 driven. You know, we had,
we had to, but if you, I will still say now, I don't know what's happened in the last five years,
but I will still say that our Intel collection and the analysis process still has a long way to go.
You know, we, we rely on, we still rely too much on flipping checks, looking at accounts and,
you know, looking at things to say, Oh yeah, we're going to be able to take this information and
then turn it into questions where the agency is amazing at taking as much as they can out of
the person who can, who they can turn and manipulate and do what they need to do in order to gain
and garner the information that benefits us too. Now some, some agents are really good at source
development. So they, some people don't even, they, they never look at a checking account.
They never look at the money. They just grind the guy out until they get what they need.
But it's not across the, I wouldn't say it's across the board that we're really good at asset
development where these guys, they're masters. Right. So think like FBI has a lot of duties
of which one is counterintelligence. CIA, we are an intelligence organization of which no part of
our organization is law enforcement, right? Again, getting into the administrative minutiae
that nobody cares about. We're given the executive branch gap gives us different authorities to
operate in different ways intentionally so that if we want to maximize our, our operations, we
have to work with FBI. And if FBI wants to maximize their operational utility, they have to work with
us because we are granted different authorities to do different types of things. And both of us
really want to work with Department of Homeland Security and both of us really want to work with
NSA because they have different authorities that we don't have. Right. It's like when you give your
kids all one cookie to make sure that nobody gets to eat all dozen cookies kind of thing.
How come nobody talks about Mexico and what China's involvement is in Mexico as far as trafficking
fentanyl into Mexico and buying up all the lithium mines and hiring the cartel to be their security
while they are fucking extracting all the lithium out of the mines and buying up all this shit in
Mexico? There are people talking about that. It's just not the headlines that are talking about that.
It's really hard to sell an ad spot on a blog or on a news post when you're talking about
criminal activity against Mexicans in Mexico. That's not going to make somebody click on a link
next to the current midterm results or next to Ukrainians raising flags in in Harrison City.
But what if you finish the headline with the people trafficking fentanyl across the border
that's killing Americans every single day? Now they're clicking. Yeah, it's sometimes.
But is it is it still going to be what drives the click compared to some other headline at the
time? You're exactly right when it comes to Chinese involvement in third world countries
around the world and developing nations around the world. That's their M.O. Just like we were
talking about M.O. That's what they're doing in the Bahamas. They're basically they're positioning
themselves in every third world country that has a port that handles the transfer extraction or
delivery of rare earth minerals, weapons and heavy infrastructure dual use technology. Because if
they have a partnership with and they always seek partnerships, they don't ever seek like
dominance. That's the American way is to go in and basically say we own this port and you have no
access to it. The Chinese go in and say, we're going to build the port for you. We're going to
we're going to bring in Chinese people to run the port. We'll teach you how to run the port
yourselves. We'll even pay taxes on the port so that you have more money in your pocket,
but you're going to grant us a hundred year lease to use the port. So isn't isn't Mexico in a sense
like Ukraine to us like we're Russia and Mexico is our Ukraine and China is United States like
China is doing all this stuff to to to infiltrate Mexico and get and fuck up the United States.
And is there is there any chance we would ever invade Mexico except for the fact that we don't
have an economic we don't have an economic reliance on Mexico like like Russia has on Ukraine.
If you if you pull up a map, we have tons of factories and shit in Mexico. Are you talking
about the supply chain to the blacks? Correct. Correct. Correct. Yeah. No. So I mean, are there
commercial companies that have a where a factory in Mexico? Yes. And they also have a factory
in Tennessee and in Vietnam and in whoever you know, there's they're diversified. They have five
of them in China. Okay. So this I wouldn't say that there's I don't think it's realistic in any
way to think that America is going to invade Mexico. No, there's for the American Trump wanted to
the American military to invade a neighboring country. It's it's not it's not our strategy.
It's not how we operate, especially not when we can just write a big check and have something
happen much faster than if we were to mobilize M1 Abrams. Do the cartels benefit us at all?
Here's the the issue that we're having now with with legitimate United States businesses that are
trying to move product to or get product from Mexico because there's some there's some there's
some military hardware, there's different computer systems that need to get in and out. The problem
they're having is the cartels control those paths, those supply chains. So really, no, you know,
not only they move in drugs that are killing our kids and killing a lot of people, but they're also
not allowing without huge, you know, huge markups in order for us, legitimate logistics companies
to get in there with product or come out with it. That's the big issue of everything from cars.
I mean, think Mercedes has a huge plant in Mexico City, so but they can't move the product without
paying an upcharge and it's a significant upcharge or it's what I worry about is it's you know what
just look the other way what's coming in with these, you know, 50 s classes. You know what I mean?
So that's I think that's going a little bit far stretching a little bit far, but it's possible.
You know, so I think that's kind of the issues that we're having there on the side of crime and
on the side of how the cartels control every single thing and then moving people through is
I mean, that's that's an organized scheme, what you're seeing at the borders.
What was your voice at, Danny? What was the I forget the guy's name? He had a man who was like,
Oh, Louise Shaparo.
Louise, he what was he saying about the CIA with the cartels?
He was saying that the CIA he's saying that with unequivocally the CIA works with the cartels.
I don't know one way or the other.
There was one guy and in particular, there was a documentary made about him. He was CIA and DEA,
I believe, and he was actually murdered by a CIA agent in a cartel drughouse, like in one of the
cartel owned houses. And this is like, this has been verified and there's like documentaries
about it and stuff like this. And I wish I could remember the name of the guy right now. Fuck.
Anyways, it was a in the DEA office in Mexico City, I believe the DEA agent was tortured.
Kiki van Kiki. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Kiki Rodriguez.
I was going to say van the way that was the that was the fucking name.
Yeah, Kiki was the DEA guy who got murdered. And eventually they captured some of the cartel
guys and the cartel guys basically unveiled the who the guy was who actually murdered Kiki and
it wasn't a CIA agent who lives in Florida right now. I can't remember his name. You going to have
him in? No, I don't think he'll answer my emails. Do you have a name? Did you do it? It's on the
internet. If you could find it, if you could find who is the CEA who is the CEA agent who murdered
Kiki Rodriguez. Oh, and he gets drowned in Puerto Rico. We'll know fucking anything. Yeah. Look for
his tweets. That's it. It's not intimate. Drowning is not intimate. So who I mean why wouldn't the
United States invade Mexico if China has its claws so deep in Mexico and it's hurting the
United States so much? Like if the if they're so invested in Mexico and working alongside the
cartels, why wouldn't we just overtly go in there? Because there's two there's two types of wars.
One is a profitable war. One is a not profitable war, right? And those two types of war are called
interstate war and intrastate war. Interstate war is sovereign nation against sovereign nation.
It's extremely expensive. It is not economically sustainable. It's when one country invades another
country. It's what Russia is doing to Ukraine right now. That is not a profitable war for either side.
Intrastate war is a civil war. In a civil war, it's extremely profitable for anybody
participating in the civil war from outside of the country. Why did we get involved in Syria?
Why did we get involved in Yemen? Why did we get involved in Libya? Why are we involved in Ukraine?
It's extremely profitable to be the person who's sending humanitarian aid, building influence,
soft power, hard power, sending weapons systems, you know, whatever it might be. It's extremely
probably part of an intrastate war, right? So what when the United States watches what China is doing
around the world and third world countries through the Belt and Road Initiative, through whatever
policies China's executing to build infrastructure and everything else, that is something that the
United States would prefer to continue to combat economically. Because once they commit troops on
the ground, you're not only playing the cost in terms of dollars and cents, but the cost in terms
of lives, the cost in terms of public response, it's nasty. 9-11, if anybody alive during 9-11,
America was was hard up and ready to rock and roll and send boots on the ground for about five years.
And then after that, the death toll and the lack of results, even though it wasn't anywhere close
to what it was in Vietnam, it was it turned the appetite of the American people against the
because they started a bad war. We didn't need that. Like Afghanistan had to go to listen,
what you are spouting right now is what you have seen since 9-11.
The day the day that 9-11 happened, people wanted blood immediately. Oh, no, no, no,
I don't know. So just to be clear, I always say this, absolutely had to go to Afghanistan.
Afghanistan was a thousand percent should have been there. October. Yeah, all the way. That was a
mission. I'm talking about when they took their eye off the ball and they went to Iraq, where
he's got WMDs. No, he didn't. Dick Cheney walked in there and said, Mr. President, what if there
was a one percent chance Saddam had WND, blew someone up and it was on your ass. And he's like,
God damn it, Dick, we're going in. And he wanted to go in to finish his dad's fucking job. And so
then we get caught up in this whole war and that's where the tide turned. And that's why also then,
and this is a separate conversation, but 20 years later, we have the fuck up with Afghanistan
because the resources were pulled out of there. Like I see the difference between the two. And
I look at this and I go, how can you not say that Iraq is a product of a profitable war,
as you say, which I understand exactly why you're saying that. There's people out there who will
just hear that word and immediately go to like military industrial complex. When they're thinking
about Iraq, though, they're right about that. Okay. So this is this is Kiki. This is Kiki.
I can't read that. Can you read that, Julian? Kiki Salazar was an American intelligence officer
for the United States DEA in February 1985. Camarena. Oh yeah, Kiki Camarena Salazar.
Camarena was kidnapped by drug traffickers hired by Mexican politicians and Guadalajara.
And whoa, whoa, oh, you're zooming in. Three leaders of the Guadalajara drug cartel were
eventually convicted in Mexico for Camarena's murder. The US investigation into Camarena's
murder led to 10 more trials in Los Angeles for other Mexican nationals involved in the crime.
One of them, I forget his fucking name, but we got the guy. They caught him in like the
hills of Mexico last year. Yeah. And he's free again. Is he free again? Yeah, I believe he's
free again. He was again captured in July of 2012. Yeah, Carol Cantero. Yeah. And then again
capture. Okay. So we got him again. Yeah. And he was being they had they did they did like a press
event with him and he was just kind of like laughing and like mocking everybody like,
how fuck you? I'll be out of here in three months. Yeah. So where's the CIA connection? So yeah. So
if we can find find the CIA guy, you got to you got to Google who is the CIA officer,
except in Google Chrome. Actually, I think it is still control up in group.
What were we just talking about? I think we were just talking about conspiracies
and how hard it is to prove a conspiracy right. So essentially, essentially, it would it
CIA has an entire division focused on countering narcotics.
But we counter narcotics that affect American national security priorities. There's all sorts
of narcotics out there that don't have any impact on US national security. If they have some other
intelligence value, then it basically goes to a panel of people who decide, according to the
Washington Post test, whether or not we should get involved in this other type of operation,
right? Collecting intelligence is not the same thing as stopping criminal activity.
Oftentimes, collecting intelligence means accepting or even enabling criminal activity,
two different things. Now, in a post 9-11 world, would we run that by FBI? Yeah, we'd be like,
hey, we're thinking about doing something with or against or in conjunction with or that may
potentially enable this cartel to operate in a certain way. FBI, do we have your blessing,
right? NSA, can we collect and make sure this is going to work, right? Maybe they even go and
they ask the Intelligence Committee at the House. What about private intelligence? Private
intelligence is completely different, right? It's totally, private intelligence does whatever it
takes to make the paycheck at the end of the day. And that's what makes it so useful. It can move
faster. It can move more nimbly. It can absorb risk without ever needing to have like the president
have plausible deniability. It's not plausible. He actually has full on deniability. Well,
this one definitely does. But every time I hear anybody out there be like, oh, yeah, verified
like CIA officer did this. It's really hard to verify a CIA officer. And there are so many people
out there who claim to be CIA when they're not there. They were pulled onto a mission that CIA
was part of. Maybe they participated in some private intel effort that was unknowingly or
knowingly like funded by some third party that may have been affiliated with CIA.
Like people throw that term around a lot. Yeah, people throw it at you all the time.
They try to, they try to say like, oh, that boost the month they got, not a spy at all.
Yeah, or they, yeah, they, it's amazing or that you've got the people throwing that at me and
the people throwing that I'm still actively a spy. Yes. Well, we know we are. And I'm on podcasts
trying to recruit more spies. It's not recruiting. You're putting a narrative out.
You know, if the great PR man, the truth is a narrative.
The true. Oh boy. Now we're playing with the word truth. Oh my God.
Anyways, I don't want to spend a whole fucking hour trying to find this guy's name,
but there's a documentary about this called The Last Narc. And towards the end of The Last Narc,
they actually reveal who the CIA agent was. I think his last name was Rodriguez and he lives
in Miami right now. Okay. And he's retired CIA. Wait, Jose Rodriguez? Yeah. Fuck out of here.
Yeah, Jose. You know Jose. Uncle Jose. He was the director. He was the chief of
I don't know why. He was the head of the torture. That's how he talks. He's like,
we didn't torture anyone. We just made them feel pain. It's like, okay, torture. All right, cool.
Like every conspiracy theory is just intrinsically tied to the CIA. Correct. It is insane. And you
did find a source, one source successfully to talk about this and it's Fox News.
Hmm. Yeah. Let's go. Where's the Jerusalem post?
Great with you there, brother. I mean, but I actually like what you say about that a lot and
people will give you shit for it, but it's a really important point you've made on multiple
podcasts where I think he made it on yours originally at first. I could be wrong about that
because you've been on so many fucking podcasts. Yeah. But thanks to you guys. I see a new podcast
with Andrew Bustamante every single week. I was telling Julie the other day. It's wild, man.
I've got some recording too in London next week. Really? Oh, yeah. Tally Ho. Anyway, but you said
with a conspiracy, it's like people, they start with a level of truth,
like a kernel of truth, and then they carry it all the way and they want it to be true. Correct.
And I agree completely because all the time, we can joke about Guy getting drowned in the
Puerto Rican pools or whatever. But all the time, I'm constantly trying to say pull things back and
be like, well, what's really the evidence for this kind of thing? And people are like, oh,
you're a fucking CIA podcast, man. Fuck off. I understand where they could be coming from,
though, when someone like you, like in the CIA or you and the FBI sits there and says, oh,
you need to consider this just a kernel of truth at the top and eventually gets dragged out because
that means, therefore, that yes, there are real conspiracies, but it's a very small percentage
of them. So then every time a new conspiracy is faced at the table and you're saying, it could
this be true, you can play the, oh, well, this is part of the big percentage where it's not. And so
every time in the law of like populations, large numbers, you're essentially getting to deny it by
the same way Dick Cheney did the 1% doctrine, because it's like, don't focus on the fact that
it's only 1% focus on the fact that it could be 1%. You're doing the opposite end and saying, no,
no, no, it's always the 99. You know what I mean? So professional professionals in our field,
we play probabilities, right? And then sometimes probabilities are high enough that they dictate
action. Sometimes probabilities are low enough that they dictate patience, right? You're the
anatomy of a conspiracy, exactly what you're talking about, right? Every conspiracy starts
with a fact, something happens. Then immediately following that fact, we're faced with something
that's not known, right? Whether it's the, whether it's what happened with FTX or whether it's what
happened with this dude in the Bahamas, we're faced with something that's not known. Once you're
faced with something that's not known, the natural human tendency, not among dumbasses,
but among smart people, right? Conspiracy theorists are for the most part pretty smart people,
right? The next natural reaction when there's, when you're facing unknown information is skepticism.
You're asking yourself, why don't I know this? Why doesn't somebody know this?
Shouldn't somebody know this? Right? Those are the first three steps in the birth of a conspiracy.
And then it's human nature that when you are, when you become skeptical, then you start to
write a story in your head that erases the skepticism. You connect the dots on your own
with a piece missing in between. There you go, the missing link. And then it just starts to cycle.
That's perfect. That's well explained. And because you're coming up with a logical sound
explanation at the end, all the other smart people and all the dumbasses out there,
they can connect your story very quickly. So that's how conspiracies boom, take off like wildflower.
And the agency is a nice missing link for a lot of stories. Well, we can never really know about
it, but you know, those guys know exactly what happens. Sometimes they do, sometimes they don't.
But it's still, it provides that missing link. It provides that bridge for skepticism to rid
yourself of that and write your story. What about when something so obviously backed by
something unknown, right? There's people who could define and say, oh, I know this thing is this.
And they really have no evidence for that. But you look at something like the Epstein story,
we know there's, there's a massive conspiracy there. Who's behind it is a whole nother question.
But I feel like intelligence organizations, perhaps around the world, not focused on the
CIA right now, who could have some sort of exposure to that in some way, have every reason to be able
to say, oh, no, this guy was just a scumbag doing this thing or whatever. You guys are all conspiracy
theorists talking about this. And then they don't report about it in the mainstream media,
because they're all tied to it, by the way, but still.
Right. And to be fair, before, before the whole Epstein thing came out, it was like something like
we were just looking at and everyone was going, you guys are fucking crazy thinking that, you
know, this could be some sort of bigger scheme. And then it all comes out, he gets arrested,
and then the fucking book come or not the book, we didn't get the book. But we see, we get evidence
that, you know, Clinton went down there and all this stuff. And it's like, oh, wow, this did happen.
And now we're like, okay, but this happens all the time. That's why I always make the joke. I love
the joke. What's the difference between a conspiracy theory and the truth? Six months.
That's insane. Yeah, the thing to understand is that all covert influence, all covert influence,
the United States covert influence, Russian covert influence, Guatemalan covert influence,
all covert influence starts with a stigma. Nobody creates a new story out of nowhere. You know
how hard it is to get people motivated behind a brand new narrative that's never been said before?
It's almost impossible. So you start by targeting an existing issue, you start by targeting an
existing stigma. And then you just add fire to that stigma. You want to change, you want to change
an election anywhere in South America, you basically just fund one side or the other because
right? True. Take all laughing aside, look what happened in 2016, 2020. Look what happened in 2022.
You saw all this funding come in for messages on one side or the other. Funding for Facebook,
funding for Instagram, all these ads, all these groups. You had FBI and NSA and CIA and the
director of counterintelligence for the United States openly telling everybody be warned,
you will see Russian meddling, you will see Chinese meddling. You had the Russian head of
propaganda formally announced two days before the election this year. We are Russian, we are taking
part in meddling in election. They publicly announcing it. We're meddling in the election
this year. We're doing it right now. You pick a stigma and that's what you fund. That's exactly
how COVID influence works. Now, does that mean that there are programs in the United States
funded by CIA intentionally misdirecting the American people? That goes against all the
authorities, that goes against everything we were taught. Now, does that mean that the CIA is going
to step in until CNBC or CNN when they're saying something that's wrong? No, they're not going
to do that. Perfect example. If you remember back in like June or July, the death toll for Russian
soldiers was something ridiculous, like 80,000 dead Russians, 4,500 dead Ukrainians as reported by
a Ukrainian general. That stuff goes out there, gets approved in the news, goes out. That's all
part of a giant war, information war that's happening between NATO countries and Russian
countries. That doesn't mean it's coming from the United States. It means that somebody somewhere
is providing that information somehow. When the United States head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
finally comes out and comments on the death toll, he did what, two days ago? What did he say?
100,000 dead on both sides. All that misinformation, eight months of misinformation
corrected with one formal statement from the Joint Chief of Staff. That's it. 100,000 dead on
both sides. That's a crazy number of people, but it sets a completely new point of view on that
conflict. No longer are these Ukrainian soldiers hyper-proficient in the Russians, idiots. Instead,
you see pretty much a war of attrition between two sides that even with all that Western funding,
all that Western intel, all that Western military might, it's still essentially a very
close and intimate fight. Many civilians. Yeah. It's terrible. That is how information warfare
happens. That's how influence campaigns happen. Yes, stigma is everything.
We garner a ton of great information based on that. We really do.
But you don't think they correct the record? Who?
Agencies. I'm not talking about CIA. I'm talking about CIA, FBI, NSA. You don't think that when
these ex-CIA guys go on both Fox News and CNN, or they have their guys on each channel, MSNBC,
pick them all out, you don't think that there's some correcting the record? When I see John Brennan
show up on TV, I don't think that guy's doing it because he enjoys being a fucking commentator.
He's doing it because he's making more money now than he did when he was director of CNN.
And that absolutely could be part of it, but you don't think that he was a careerist there,
like he was there for a long, long time. You don't think that there's a part of it that could be,
you know, tinfoil hat, the guy never leaves? You should. I don't think people have any idea
what happens when you leave government service. We don't. Men in black goes away. Your most valuable
time when you leave service is the first year. After that, nobody has time for you.
It's so hard to remember the stuff that you cover there. And like clearances and everything else
aside, you're just inundated in secrets. And then your brain just doesn't retain them very long.
And the directors, if you keep in mind this, and Andy's talked about this before,
their job is to take what that president wants, to gather information, have their analysts figure
out what they need to put into the report in order to deliver it to the executive branch.
So there's there's much of that that they have absolutely no idea about.
And then let's also keep in mind that what is a what is a senior ranking like government employee
make 180k a year when they're active, as soon as they retire, 60% of their base pay, right? So
they go from $180,000 a year lifestyle to 90 taxed at the regular rate of a $90,000 a year person.
So that means all the sacrifice they made in their entire career,
so that they can make at the end of the day about $65,000 a year in take home pay to maintain
a lifestyle that they built when they were making $180,000 a year.
It's a fundamental flaw in the American system. That's why former people go into media. That's
why Mike Morel has a podcast with CBS. That's why I started a business, right? That's why Jim
started a business. Because once you get out of there, you're like, what the hell? Like I built
a $200,000 lifestyle and now the government's got me on a pension paying me, you know, the amount
that a starting college graduate makes. I think you guys talked about this on your podcast, but
what did Trump do specifically with people that were hired by the agencies versus hired vice
contractors like Honeywell and Raytheon? So we might not see eye to eye on this. I was actually
really happy when Trump went on the hunt to take clearances away from people who were former
government officers who just flipped around a rotating door to then go work in Raytheon or
Booz Allen or whatever else. They were basically being paid to network their way back into the
main building to do business development for those mainstream contractors. So Trump saw that and he
was like, you have no need to know at a top secret level. So we're just going to take that away.
We're just going to take that away. We're going to take that away. We're going to end this because
they're using that to leverage high paying careers from those companies. Correct. Yeah,
correct. Because it's a safe way of going from making $180,000 a year to making $380,000 a year.
And just like Jim was saying, that first year is so critical. You actually retain state secrets
that are relevant and current for that first year. And then it goes away. Even it's right.
They're buying your badge. They're buying your SEI or whatever you have so that you still
maintain access for them for their benefit. So many former Feds in our area go back,
rotate back in to the scene desk they were sitting at, but working in conjunction with
other companies. So basically doing financial analysis to provide the bureau with what they
consider Intel, but at the same time to make sure the company that they're working for gets access
to the SAC, to the unit chief, the section chief. Because you know why? Because the unit chief and
section chief control the budget. And you know what? I'll be there in four years. So save that
seat. So the way it currently exists is one year and then you lose all of that?
One for that and five for being able to share specific experiences. So not at our discretion.
So the bureau has no issue after five years goes by totally. Now in order to write a book,
forget it. I mean, it's a 10-year process. And it's redacted. Jack Carr is the perfect example
of that. If you listen to his books, they're wonderful. But then at the end of the day,
it's like in redacted, in redacted. And then they went redacted. You know, it's constant
throughout the audible book. Yeah. So basically the way the way it works to answer your question,
again, in the boring administrative way that it works, the day that you leave service,
you're going to leave with most likely you're going to leave with a TSSEI.
Right. I'm guessing TSSEI, Top Secret Special Compartment Information.
You're going to leave with a TSSEI. A year later, that TS drops down to a secret if
you're not actively using it in a need to know capacity. A year after that, the secret disappears
and you no longer have a clearance. What Raytheon, Booz Allen, Mantek, you name them,
what they want is the day you leave, they pick you up. They put you in a role where you have
need to know. And now that secret or top secret, that top secret clearance stays active.
And even though there's rules at FBI and CIA about you not going back immediately when you
separate, that rule doesn't exist when you retire. So then when these senior officials retire,
they can go right back into the building. And just like Jim was saying, the contractor is
buying the badge. There's no way that individual is going to create $380,000 worth in value
based on their skill set. They're going to create that value because they can go right
into any director's office and they can pitch Mantek process, Mantek systems, they can pitch
Raytheon resources, they can pitch new projects. And when one of those projects funded for five
years becomes a $19 million contract, now all of a sudden they'll pay that retired guy $380,000
for next five years. Easy day. Does this exist in other countries the same way it exists here
where we have all these military contractors that make all this fucking money doing all this stuff
working for the agencies? It's mixed. It's mixed here. Yeah, here we're a bull market. So it exists
here because essentially we encourage business to happen. Russia and China, you're an intelligence
person for life. It doesn't matter if you get in or get out, you're always going to get paid on the
government salary. Israel's different. Definitely. I want to say Colombia is different. Yep,
I think some South American countries, Australia, definitely Canada, Canada to an extent. Yeah,
you'll see folks that still need the safety net and God bless them. They're good people. But
what we do is you don't have to deal with, you still have to deal with all the bullshit. Even
if you keep the badge, when you go back into the building, it's still requirements polygraphs.
Everything else that comes along with that. And guys love it because like Andy said, they've never
had a chance to pay for kids college until they get that job. A lot of incentives you'll hear,
all right, base salary is this, but we'll take care of your kids to wish. That kind of stuff.
So that's important. Government doesn't take care of its lifetime public servants. Nope.
I mean, just if you have anybody listening right now who's been medically retired,
who's retired from the military, who's retired from public service in any way,
they'll tell you straight, they're nodding their head as they listen to this.
Yep. Government does not take care. You got to rebuild your entire life
on a budget the day you retire from government service. It is so true. And you spend a lot of
your time in government service, not a lot, but there's segments during the year, every year,
where you sit and you go, all right, you know what, if I stay in extra five years, and I know
there's buddies of mine that are listening, if I stay in extra five, that's 2%. But then guys,
think about it. You know, think about it, 2% of 170, you know, is it worth the next five years
of your life? I don't think so. We can jump out now. $30,000. That's it. You know, for me,
I mean, I came out with a decent, a decent pension payment, but it's certainly not something I could
live on. If I couldn't sustain the life that I want to live and give to my kids and give to my
marriage, I couldn't do that without going back to work. You know, it's impossible. I mean,
when we spend what, like, I think it was $10 billion was spent on the advertising for midterm
elections. It's fucking insane. With all the other shit, we could spend $10 billion on it.
34 years of my life for what I got. Now, I don't regret a single thing that I did.
It's because you're a servant. Yep, I want to do it. I'm a, you know, I'm a servant leader,
and that's how I consider myself. But really, you know,
Well, that's the problem. Governments have to compete against private markets that have,
I mean, this is where capitalism incentivizes. So when you're, you use the example of Russia and
China, we all know they're authority ones, right ones left, but they're authoritarian governments
and they get to say what goes and that's that. It's not like, you know, there's a free market
system. So and there's skills, Julian, you make great sense because there's, there's skills that
we hire for. And people know people that know what those skills are tend to make a serious amount
of money, but their shelf life is so short. Because you know, why would you stay in a government
where you're getting polygraphed government job when you can go off to the next private company
and do your thing probably at three X and never get questioned about what you're doing in your
personal or private life, right? So still, still like, you know, there's still lifestyle questions
on the fucking polygraph. Yeah. In the FBI, in the, in the agency, there's still lifestyle
questions. It's amazing that this polygraph is still a thing. Yeah. And it's, and it's tough.
And those, and they're trained, they're trained guys like us, but, but they're not as experienced
as most in the, in private sector are. So, you know, I can, I can pass today and fail tomorrow
on the same question. Right. And you'd look at the person and say, didn't we, didn't we border
this? Didn't we parameterize this? Yeah, I did. But you came up, you know, deceptive. You showed
But two weeks ago, I didn't. So, so it has, have I changed? Have I killed somebody in the last
two weeks? Yes. From a distance. Yeah. I thought about it. I thought about it. Jim went to a
country and he's not allowed to come back now. That's what happened. Yeah. But I mean, like,
that's, that's, that's terrible. That's terrible, though, to happen, to not be able to, why would
you stay? Yeah. Why would your shelf like be any longer than, you know, learn the skill,
make the contacts, get the badge. I don't know. I don't know if FBI is going through this, but
CIA has been going through a massive attrition for the last five or seven years. It can't hire
people fast enough. It's got massive, massive gaps in, in critical hiring capacities, because
people are waking up, younger generations are waking up to exactly what Jim's saying. So,
all the normal retirement is happening. All the mid career people are asking themselves,
do I really want to stay for another 15 years? Or do I want to bail now as a mid careerist?
And then all of the junior officers have been through a tour or two and they're like,
you know what? This government thing isn't all that great. And I'm still 32 years old. I could
make a 30 year career in the commercial sector. Not to mention all the contractors out there who
serve the government are still thinking hungry for those clearances. Yeah. Right. And you said
that's where all the leaks come from too. That's where we have all the problems. It's not where
all the leaks come from. A lot. The place where the leaks come from is exactly what we're talking
about. Government hasn't rightsized the initiatives or the incentives for people who have secrets.
So, I mean, CIA had three, three arrests of former CIA officers in 2021. Think about that.
Wait, who are working on the private side now? No. So, some were, some were contractors,
some were actively involved in at CIA. We just had an arrest this week of a couple
that was selling secrets about Navy, Navy military vessels to the Chinese.
Just, that was just, just sentenced this week. Right? Like we, in the Intel game, on the counter
Intel game specifically, where we're trying to catch people who are spies against our country,
like we're getting taken to lunch. We're 20 years behind global, global war on terror. Right?
How, like in your head, when you're looking at our government and powerful positions could be
bureaucratically or in official electric capacity in the government, do you think at all times,
well, it's definitely at all times, but do you think there is much more than
past the puke button of people who are working in government, who are on the take for other
governments and working in an intelligence manner? So, my, my personal opinion is, is
grown largely from what we were taught at the agency. And at the agency, we were taught,
just assume there's moles, assume you're penetrated, assume that there's information
being leaked out that you can't control, leaked out to foreign governments, leaked out through
anonymous sources to the press, just assume that there's a big leaky bucket and operate,
operate anyways. That's, that's how I was taught. So, that's kind of how I assume of it. Right? I
think that's past the puke button personally, but that's what professionals were trained to do.
And from my standpoint, just looking at the Bureau's public corruption
program and the amount of money and attention that has gone into that over the, over the entire
course of my career, I look and say, yeah, I mean, it doesn't matter appointed, elected,
you know, they are going to, they are going to benefit. Some of them walk right on the line,
some of them jump over the line, and some of them live their life in the gray area,
but they're all fucking benefiting. And then ASAC Schrader knocks on their door.
You don't, you know, listen, you don't, you don't live that lifestyle that we see most of our
elected officials that are in the public space on one, that 172, that, that's the same money.
That's it. That's the money. Yeah. It's just, it's just, you know, source and application work,
man. It's what we do. Here's what you make. Here's what you're spending. All right.
Where's the difference? You know, I don't, I don't have any difference in mine.
When he's talking about checks, when he's talking about money, what he means is you follow the money
and where there's a gap in the money, that's where you know to focus your resources.
Somebody's living $100,000 earlier in your lifestyle. They get $60,000 a year. There's a gap.
Somebody's, somebody else is living a $60,000 a year lifestyle. They make $80,000 a year.
There's no gap there. So how do you prioritize your investigative resources? You dig into the guy
that somehow is coming up with $40,000 extra a year. The little girl in the red coat in that way.
Correct. That's exactly right. You know, and you look at like, even from my experience,
it's, it's so egregious when you get to the, to most of these people that you know are living
that lifestyle. It's, it's 10X. It's 20X. So they don't even give a shit. You know, they don't give
a shit. They'll, they'll bargain out. They'll plea bargain out, spend their four years in jail
in a federal camp and come back and have shit hidden somewhere else. Still have the same relationships
going down. Not going to, you know, not, now what scares the shit out of them is the IRS.
Yeah. That's true. Cause guess what the IRS does? It just sniffs out money.
They just take it all. Everything you do. I mean, IRS agents are going to,
especially the, on the 1811 side, which is the actual criminal investigators,
they're going to follow your ass in. If you're, if you're a politician that's, we said,
that's a 10X or they're following your ass everywhere you go. Did he pay cat? I mean,
they'll walk right up. I've seen, I think I've talked about cases where I've seen IRS agents
walk up to cash registers at restaurants and say, how do you just pay?
And the guy's right there. Yeah.
Yeah. You said you did that a couple of times. Yeah. I did it. One guy. Yeah. That was fun.
The IRS agent was fun to be. M.O.s. M.O.s. Completely different M.O.s.
Didn't something recently changed with the IRS? Didn't they just get some sort of new?
Yeah. They hired 87,000 folks who won't be trained until 2046. Well, there's more.
It's just ridiculous. I didn't hear about this. This is an unknown fact though.
That was crazy. Did you see some of the hirings though? Some of the people,
some of the demographics of the hirings? No. I mean, nothing against educated,
you know, educated on, it doesn't matter, but these are not the best on the bright.
These are the people that couldn't get in the military. They didn't want to go in the military.
Seriously. That's what it is. Think about it. I mean, we just talk, how, how do you not work
through, you, you are 25,000 short nationally on your, this is just one branch is the armies
recruiting 25,000 short, but yet those people that you said, no, we can't really deal with
what you did here or whatever. IRS is picking them up. Cause who the fuck wants to be an IRS
agent? Right. Like you walk into a bar, you tell a check on an IRS agent, like she's out of there.
These are auditors. These aren't even agents. They can carry guns, right?
The 1811 scan. So the criminal investigators can. That's what the, but the OIG side,
they're, they're doing audits, but you know, listen, you, if you jumped on a call with legal
zoom right now and said, Hey, um, I'm an S corporation, you know what they're going to tell
you? Oh, that never gets audited. So I said, I had an S corporation too. Never gets audited. So,
so the guy goes, well, now we're going to get audited, but sorry, you're the first,
you're the first phone call I'm making. But honestly, like that legal zoom is telling you,
giving you, providing you that information. And the fact that you have to hire 87,000 people
means you are so far behind that I'll be dead and buried before somebody comes and, you know,
knocks on my door and says, Hey, what was that? Hey, you went down to, to concrete,
you know, when you wrote that off, you know, I'm like, yeah, that was Danny. He told me to do it.
No, but there's like in all seriousness with the IRS though, there are some,
some guys there who are legit and they're not, you're, they're not fought. They're not just like
falling for your taxes and stuff. Andy Greenberg, whom have it back in who we've talked about before,
he, his whole last book that is now coming out, I guess it'll be out like when this episode comes
out in a couple of days, but like his whole last book is basically on the biggest dark web stories
of the past 10 years that he was a part of the reporting on. Like Andy was an early guy on the
Silk Road story. He interviewed Ross Holbrook when he was still DPR behind a keyboard before anyone
else did. And he works his way through like Alpha Bay up to even like some of the crazy like child
porn cases that they were able to trace. And the stars of the book are IRS agents. And these are
dudes going around the world with guns on their fucking hips, getting some of the biggest organizations
and taking them down. Now, Silk Road is like kind of a different one for people. But if you look at
some of these other like straight up evil ones that they took down, it's there's other agencies
involved. But like, there's some badass guys who figured this shit out. I got to get the greatest
greatest leverage in the world is having an IRS agent, you know, criminal investigator on your
team when you're doing a search warrant. You know, just they don't want to talk about authority. Yeah.
Yeah. IRS can look into something nobody else can. That's exactly it. Sometimes they just out.
How do you explain Scientology? Oh, yeah, that's a great question. Is that an open
into question? Because I don't have an answer to the story of Scientology. Are you familiar
with how Scientology became a religion, like officially, I just know Tom Cruise. I mean,
that's all they wanted to be where's Shelly? Where is she? They want they wanted to become a religion
so bad. They basically the leader of Scientology, whose name is Elron Hubbard. Is that the guy
David Miscavige? Elron Hubbard started. He was assigned. He was a science fiction writer. He
founded it. Okay. And then David Miscavige took over and Elron Hubbard's dying wish was for
Scientology to become a religion so they wouldn't be able to pay tax, wouldn't have to pay taxes.
Oh, man. So what they did was they had literally, I think it was tens of thousands of their members
all file lawsuits against the IRS. And eventually they won the IRS fucking waved the white flag
and said, okay, you guys can become a religion. You guys are tax free. That's awesome. Wow.
I'm going to plug that one back in the memory for later on.
Fucking wild. I still want to call on. There's a documentary about it. It's fascinating.
The documentary is called Going Clear, The Prison of Belief. And basically how they just
brainwash all these people into Scientology and they convince them to do whatever they want.
Basically, they start out by feeding you in science. I don't know if you're familiar with
Scientology, how it works. They feed you all these life hacks in the beginning on how to
better your life, how to push out all the negative influences in your life and how to
become the best version of yourself, like Tony Robbins type shit. And then once you get into it
and you start paying the money, then they start letting you into some of the fucking Z-New Alien
Galactic Overlord shit. You have to graduate. It's wild. My one friend went and tried out for
Scientology. I really need some help. They're like, oh, Michael, you're really fucked up. He failed
like the whole test they give you. And he's like, oh, this is this is some crazy shit. I'm out of
here. He wasn't serious. Like he just he wanted to go there just to see like if he could see into
the cult. Well, the fucking the headquarters of where it all started is less than 15 miles from
where we are. It's insane. What town? Clearwater. Downtown Clearwater. Who was the guy you had
on Mike? Mike Rittler. If you see the brick buildings in Clearwater, yeah, all that old
historic refurbished districts. It's all Tom Cruise. It's called the flag and it's called the
flag building. And the inside of it is literally plated in marble and gold. It looks like the
inside of Trump's fucking penthouse. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. It's insane. And all those guys,
Tom Cruise and John Travolta, they both have condos in downtown Clearwater somewhere. And
there's like, it's so many fucking some of the wealthiest people in Clearwater are a part of
Scientology. Like if you look at all the waterfront homes in Clearwater. Of course they are. It's
kind of creepy, man. Economics, man, just like we were saying. That's our next mission. They're
either what our what our religion is going to look like. My accountant. Well, what about like,
that's actually a really good topic. I don't know if I've talked with either you guys about this.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm saying like, when you look at the world and conflicts and
playing into cultures, every war, not let me correct that, a lot of wars tie back to like,
certain people at the top of a structure bastardizing like the religious beliefs or and that could
even by the way, I'm including like the religious belief of the state here. Like you look at the
Soviet Union. What was their religion? You worship the fucking hammer and sickle and everything.
And so when when when you're working in the symbol of democracy, like America, where it's
supposed to be freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of all that, and you're evaluating
other countries where that doesn't exist, do you find that the people who are on our end
evaluating that who literally haven't been to those places have no ability to actually add
something to the conversation? Yes and no, I would say so part part of what you're talking about is
is cultural sensitivity or cultural acuity. But another part of what you're saying is also
understanding the foundational ideology of a culture. It goes way deeper than religion. It goes,
I mean, you got to look at how they're raised. You got to look at what their life experience was
like from their core years from one to five and then their core adolescence from 13 to 21. These
are when all people are shaped when your brain is conditioned. So for sure, people who are culturally
acute can offer some amazing insights. But that doesn't necessarily mean the people who aren't
culturally acute are worthless. What actually ends up happening is sometimes the best ideas come
because a culturally ignorant person proposes something that is so outlandish to the culturally
acute person that they would have never even considered it. And then all of a sudden you've
got this innovative idea. That's what I've seen. That's how I've seen it play out. I like that.
Yeah, I like that. I mean, in my in my world, military world was basically that, you know,
looking at a culture, looking at all parts of that culture to include, you know, like Andy said,
their upbringing, their particular methods of doing things that are different than any place
else, for the most part, and then trying to kind of find ways to incentivize that.
But you're under like, for example, though, your undercover work in the FBI when you did that was
very different, as you've told me, correct me if I'm wrong, than your undercover work
in the army. Because as you put it, I think, in the army, the end goal was they're gone, right?
Whereas in in the FBI, you're trying to get information to make a case and whatever. So
what are you like, but when you're going undercover with like, yes, you're absolutely right on that
side. But what I'm saying is in my actual military position and job as a civil affairs officer,
you're trying to understand and how to incentivize that person or that culture or those people
to in fact help right for a particular and have them believe that they're helping for their
particular good. Because if they don't help you, they become hostile to you 100%. And you don't
it's much easier to have 15 people fighting for you than coming up with 15 people who have to
neutralize 15 people before the battle can even start. That's right. And a lot of it incentive,
think about incentive sometimes is just this, just cash. Problem with that is
you start seeing those people picked off slowly over time because they can be bought out by someone
else. And that's it. So they go away. So we had to be really careful. And then there was a whole
deal with corruption within our military of realizing getting down and out about the fact
that we're paying these people that providing information undergone. What are you guys doing
about it? So you know what? Fuck you. I'm taking the money. And that happened. That was a mindset
that happens. We had go forward a few years and I had cases that actually came from that
people and you would talk to these people and they would say, yeah, I'm there's no way I'm
going to participate in their death. So you stole money. Is that what it is? No, I didn't. I just
I diverted it so people wouldn't get killed and they believed that. Well, they convinced them.
You're saying they convinced themselves to believe them or anything? Of course. We all do that. We
all rationalize. Yes. Yes. But yeah, to your point, there's when it comes to the benefit of it's all
it's all a cost benefit analysis. How much time and energy should go into understanding someone's
ideological background? And what's the benefit you get out of it? Jim and I come from a world
where benefit to the United States is everything. If it doesn't benefit us, then we don't really
waste our time on it. And I think the reason that we've been successful in business outside of
government is because we approach it the same way. What's the benefit to us? What's the service that
we can provide? And if there's a positive net some win there, then we execute. If it's net
neutral or net loss, we're not going to waste our time. So many people out there, our culture,
talk about cultural ideology, our culture in the United States has somehow turned into
somebody else needs to do it for me. Somebody else's responsibility to teach my children. It's
somebody else's responsibility to keep my neighborhood safe. It's somebody else's responsibility
to give me a job. It's somebody else's responsibility to determine if my skill sets
warrant a college degree. We've outsourced every so much of our life. We've outsourced to somebody
else's systematic structure of approval. And who defines that systematic structure of approval?
The state, not the state of Florida, but the nation state of the United States.
So when you're up against that kind of enemy, honestly, sometimes the best thing to do is just
to work outside of the system, which is why that's how we've chosen to operate. We work outside of
the system because then the system doesn't really know what to do with us. And most of the clients
that meet us are like, you guys are outside of the system. We're like, yeah, we can do pretty
much anything you want to have happen. We can find a creative way to make it work. But what if the
same people who are perhaps funding you to do that are also funding the system itself?
Isn't it just a never-ending closed circle? Here's where I get cutthroat. Do we benefit?
Does the client benefit? End of story. I've learned a lot from Andy and it's only been
seven months. Money is the ultimate religion. The thing that impressed me so much and that has
changed my style of doing business and what he does really well is his one thing.
So what he does is training. And that's his one thing. And he's able to look outside of anything
else and say, no, I'm really sorry. I never could do that. As we know here, it would be like,
yeah, I definitely can do that. And then I found myself in a position where I couldn't,
not because I wasn't capable, because I didn't have time and I didn't want to get outside of
the realm of just one guy. So watching Andy operate and we sat last summer and just listening
to him, I've been able to one thing it. And you know how difficult that has been for me.
And man, oh man, right. All I'll say is it's taken off where he's the training person and he does it.
And what we witnessed last night, you know, how well he does it and how thorough and how
servant leadership oriented he is. My assessment work has just been a blessing. I simplified
to the point where we can do it. Now, you can't do that in a government organization. You can't
one thing it even if you're in even if you're in a certain, you know, if you're in one area of the
world or another, you still have many responsibilities. Even if you're talented, even if you're super
talented at one thing, when you're going to get you never you're going to get moved around. Now,
they'll pigeonhole you and shit that's meaningless. They will do that. So you got to watch out.
Well, they do that. Why is that though? Because it's easy because there's no issues with that one
thing. But you know what, put this diet, he's going to do all our cart, all our computer, you
know, work, put them over there. He won't, he won't say anything. In the meantime, the dude's
burnt out. He's miserable. He's been divorced twice. But you know what, there's never a problem
that comes with the computer systems here ever. We never have an issue. And I was guilty of that
probably a bunch until I started to realize what's going on with so and so he's miserable. So
my point is the one thing is, is your detriment sometimes in the Bureau, but also the fact that
you cannot choose your one thing and move forward with it is the biggest distraction. It's the
shiny nickels. I want to be, you're either going to be a guy who wants to be on the the headlines,
or you're going to be a guy that's actually going to get things done. We have too many headline
folks at the Bureau right now, too many people looking for, oh, I got to be this and that.
And you see what's happening. You see the press we're getting and rightfully so we're getting.
So so yeah, we, I think Jim and I are no, we're not naive to corruption. We're not naive to
conspiracy. We're not naive to the fact that the system is built for the preservation of the state,
not the preservation of the people. We're not naive to any of that. But we also realize that
our sphere of influence doesn't bleed into that. And I'm not going to spend my my chance to create
a legacy for my family. I'm not going to spend that spinning wheels trying to reshape the world,
trying to reshape the country that has formed the way that it has formed because of the foundation
that we've been formed on. We, it's, we're a giant battleship. We turn our country takes
changes. It turns, it evolves, but those evolutions are really slow. I'm not going to be the one
that spins my wheels trying to turn it. And I think what we've discovered in business, especially,
is that when you're, depending on how you shape a business, it can be a freaking sports car,
speed up, slow down, turn on a dime, you know, take off. Or you can spend your time trying to
build a giant warship or a cruise ship. You spend 10 years building it. And then it still
doesn't turn very well. Right. And that's just not the world that I'm, that I'm part of. Right.
I'll, I'll talk about like John Carriaccio. Yeah. I'll talk about anything that folks want to talk
about. If I can contribute, if I can collaborate, I absolutely want to contribute and collaborate.
But the truth is, I don't get, I go to sleep at night just fine with the fact that our countries
in some kind of decline right now, I can't fix it. Yeah. You speak really bluntly about that. And
I actually, that's one thing that I think it almost like the people, all the same people who
call you out for still being active CIA or not a real spy or something, they then hear that and
they're like, Oh, well, right. Yeah. Well, given up control, I mean, we have, we have lived the
life of control from our service academy days through our service, through, you know, our time
in the government. And it's so, it's so nice to give up that control in many ways in your life.
And you know, not to get spiritual or whatever, give up control. And everything seems to fall
into place. Right. We're not, we weren't built for that, but we're able to do it. I find the,
the best part of this whole conversation is that an Air Force and an Army guy are using Navy,
you know, kind of ships to explain our points. It's because the only place we can find real
inefficiency, the place we can find real inefficiency is the Navy.
I had a guy in here last week who was a Harvard scientist. He had a master's degree from Harvard,
doctorate, I think from MIT. And he was hired by DARPA. He was part of a head hunting thing. And he
got picked to work with DARPA to develop all kinds of weapons that he said he couldn't talk about a
lot of them, but he could talk about some of them. And he was talking about a lot about, he's made
this his life's mission is to help people with this directed energy brain, brain problems people
are having, which is quote unquote Havana Center. And I try to research it. I try to like actually
do like a two day deep dive on it. And it's split down the middle. There's so many people online
that say that these are just crazy people. Like these people are like,
that worked in the embassy in Cuba, like conveniently had a headache and a hangover.
And now they want to try to take all this, you know, these benefits claiming they have some sort
of fucking covert CIA weaponization thing that happened to them from either the Russians or
whether it was our weapons or Russia's weapons. And they say they claim it's just, you know,
like woo woo conspiracy shit. And then there's a whole another group of actual like former
officers of CIA or FBI. There's actually an article that just came out last week of an FBI agent
in I sent you this article, the FBI, the new FBI Bureau in Miami. One of the guys there just got
diagnosed with quote unquote Havana Center. I forget what the actual medical term is directed
energy. Do you have any experience or knowledge of anything like this? So I know, I know directed
energy weapons are real. They're, they're very real. They've been experimented for a long time.
They're fraught with issues because our technology isn't good enough to be able to hone the directed
energy. So it's dispersed and it's unpredictable and it's unreliable. So for sure, directed energy
weapons or something microwave energy weapons and other types of directed energy weapons are
have for a long time been real. Now, whether or not they're what's causing Havana syndrome,
that's the real question that people have. Have they been actively weaponized and deployed into
the field? For me, I've got peers and people that I trusted CIA who are claiming these symptoms,
and they have no reason. There's no win for them. Like you guys don't know the culture at CIA. The
culture at CIA is you don't walk around claiming that you're hurt with a headache. That's not,
you're not a warrior. If you walk around just complaining about a headache or if you try to
fake that you have a bad knee or something like that, like the culture is hardcore. The culture is
anything that is required to keep America safe, we will do and we will bear it as silent sentinels.
That's the culture. So if there are people at CIA saying that they have this common symptom,
I believe them. And I know that I know that energy directed weapons are real. I trust the
people at CIA who are saying they have symptoms. I'm going to say there's a guy who has graduated
Harvard with multiple degrees who's saying that they're real and he's dedicating his life to
solving the problem. I'm going to say it's real. I'm going to say the idiots on the internet
who have an opinion about how it's not real, they don't have a stake in the game. So from my point
of view, they can go to hell. The people who have a stake in the game, that's where I'm going to gamble.
He's also saying he's interviewed over 2,000 civilians who claim the same exact symptoms.
Which would make sense. Which would make sense if it was truly a direct energy weapon because they
can't be controlled and directed. So you've got all sorts of bleed over and all sorts of collateral
damage. I just, you speak, brother. I mean, I don't have personal experience with knowing folks. I'd
love to see who the Miami agent is because I know that office pretty well. I texted you the
I'm wondering if they were these folks that had it happen in Miami or were they over?
This is the article right here. Go back to the top.
Is that one of them? No, this is not. This is not the right one. I got to text you the right one.
But this one came out a week ago. I'm with Andy on the side of, you know, if they exist and we
know they do and we have somebody that's confirming that who's educated and we have people within
the organizations that we work for, I've, I mean, there's guys that are dying from the pile
and they're not making it up. You know what I mean? So I look at it and say, hey, look,
and it's not, it's not, listen, there's no benefit of getting medically, medically retired.
I'm telling you, there's no benefit. You're miserable. And you just, I know one or two
people who have done it, they're miserable, miserable people because they want to be back
in the fight. But the government now, because you brought it up, government saying, sorry,
you know, you got, you can't do it. Anybody out there saying that it's easy to give medical
benefits from the government is clearly completely ignorant to what it's like to get medical benefits
from the government. Here we go. This is, this is the article. Okay. Florida case of hand,
more than 1000 US government employees and their families say they're experiencing severe headaches,
mental disorientation because of something called a venison. Okay. This is like a 60 minutes.
Keep scrolling. Yeah. So I guess there's like some sort of, so the FBI won't talk about it.
Like, I guess they reached out to the bureau to get some sort of official comment on it and no
one will comment on it. That doesn't mean anything. They're saying it's a quote unquote cover up.
Yeah. Of course they're saying it's a cover up. If you send a media inquiry to CIA or NSA or FBI,
it better be something extremely important and relevant to their normal line of work,
if you expect that the one or two public affairs officers to find that one require,
that one request out of the 10,000 they got that day and make and take the time to respond to it.
Right. No comment is literally just no comment. And it's also got to be like,
I totally understand why there's things not in your interest to do it. Right. Like the last thing
you need, and this even applies to the FBI because there's plenty of, you know, covert level things
that have to happen there from like a policing perspective. The last thing you need is to put
information that can be used out there. So I don't, I almost don't understand. Like,
you had the one guy in, right? Tom O'Neill, right? The dude who wrote the Manson book.
He broke it down perfectly because he went, he went to chaos chaos chaos. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's a
great. It's a great read man. I connected Charles Manson to MPL. Great, great read. He went through
the story perfectly about how I think it was with the Washington Post, they were insisting that like
their CIA sources were perfect. They said, okay. And he had the, he had the actual like information
that they were going to be looking for. So he said, I'll tell you what, I'll bring it down.
Let's get them on the phone. Let's see what they say. And so they get them on the phone. They're
like, Hey, Tom, how are you? Like going back and forth? Like it's every week. Jim will call them
whatever. And so Tom O'Neill is sitting in the room with the documents and the reporter asked,
or the editor, I think it was asked the, the CIA guys about this information that's literally
sitting right in front of them to, to comment on it and describe like what they know. And they say,
Oh yeah, we know all about that. And they proceed to lie their ass off and say the opposite of what's
on that page. And when you hear that story, you're like, Oh, wow, what's scumbags, whatever. But at
the same time, I do recognize that like whatever was on that page is not in their interest to be
able to like get the story to the media so that the media can tell people and distract them from
doing their job, which is a slippery slope. Let's be honest. It could be. But at the same time,
like I don't like the CIA especially is a spy organization. I expect them to be spies, right?
Like I don't expect them to be out here doing podcasts, though you're doing a great job on
behalf. You know what I mean? It's not like, I'll never leave that alone. I believe in that one.
But you know what I mean? Like it's not, it's not, and I get that it's not in your interest to say
that. So even with a story like this, you guys may very well be working on all this right now,
but you're not going to be like, Yeah, no, it's totally real. They're attacking us every day.
No, it doesn't benefit. It doesn't benefit the people who are doing the work. It doesn't benefit
the victims. It doesn't benefit the scientists, right? The truth, the truth is that the truth
very often doesn't benefit the public. And the public doesn't like to hear that. Right? The truth
is that the truth does not often benefit the public. So what's the point in telling the public
the truth? Just because they feel like they're entitled to the truth? If they feel entitled
to the truth, they can go apply for a job at FBI. That's right. They can go apply for it. They can
go enlist in the military and they can learn all the truth they want to learn. There you go.
Yeah. How does that erode at the trust of government and erode at the civilization or not
just the civilization, but erode at the fucking the nation, the government doesn't care. The government
doesn't care. Do they not care? They don't care, right? They don't care. They don't care. Does it
erode at the trust? They don't care. The government doesn't benefit from trust in government. The
government benefits from obedience and civil order. If the day came that distrust in government.
And that's how you get fucking January, whatever, what was the date they fucking
were sold on January 6th. Yeah. So the point is that we have created, our forefathers created
a government in the United States that was designed to protect this perfect union, not all of the
people within this perfect union. As long as the union is secure, then it can operate to
serve the benefit of the people, even the people who don't like or trust the government, right?
So who does the government prioritize? It prioritizes the person engaged in civil
governance. The people who vote get a say. The people who pay taxes get a say. The people who
want to run for office and become elected, they all get a say. So if you engage and participate,
then the government does in fact serve you. But if you sit around and you throw potshots and you
bitch, government already knows you're going to be perfectly content with your working water,
your working sewage, your working electrical lines, your local police force, your public school.
Here's the scary thing. If you look at media and the evolution of media, it's moving away from
the people that are in control of pushing the narratives. It's going more into the hands of
independent creators who can speak their minds and speak freely and do have conversations like this
and talk about all the fucking deception and all the lies and all the dark sinister
things that the government has done. And when it starts to go more and more that way,
well, the problem is they're financially incentivized to do that more. And that voice
becomes bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger. And now that's directly in conflict with the
government. What happens after that? It is, but you're giving people what they crave. Yeah. You
know, we can't do that as government servants. I can't sit and talk to somebody about what they
crave, what they really want to know. Oh man, was there anything? And it's cliche for us when we
say we really can't talk about it, but sometimes we really can't talk about it. It's our livelihood
and our well-being that goes on the line. Should we do that? But what you guys are doing,
which I think is beautiful, and it's the next level of where we should be going for independent,
there's no independent thinkers until these things came along. So people are never really
investigating their own mind and saying, what do I really think about that and why?
Now you're showing the structure for how to do that with guests, but what you're doing together,
what you're doing separately, what other people are doing. There are not a lot of
independent thinkers. And I'm talking very well educated people who the last thing they watched
or saw is their opinion. Have you ever heard of the 80-20 rule? Yeah, I love that. So the 80-20
rule applies to everything. It's mathematically sound. So that means it applies to all of this
independent media that you're talking about. Yes. Of the 100% of people who are listening to this
conversation right now, 20% of them will learn something new and take action. 80% of them
aren't even paying attention right now. Maybe they're looking at the screen right now because
I just called them out for not paying attention. Right. But 80% of them aren't paying attention.
We are not here to talk to the 80%. You're not doing this work every day to talk to the 80%. We
are all talking to the 20%. And then if you look at just the 20% of the 20% that listen and learn
something new of that group, only 20% will take action. The other 80% will be satisfied with the
fact that they learned one new thing. But it's also the 20% control in the conversation too,
because the 20% who yell out the fucking loudest and scream at each other get all the attention.
And so then the 20% who actually are paying attention get pissed at them because they're in
the 80% that doesn't want to do that. And that's another never-ending circle right there too.
Yeah, but I think what the value is here is the thought and the idea of independent thinking.
We need more of that. We don't have that. Look at, you know, I'm not picking on a generation,
but this tells them all they need to know, right, in their mind. Now, we know that's not the case,
right? We know the case that you should really look into things that bother you,
look into things that interest you. And like Andy said, find your one thing, pursue it with full,
you know, foot down on the pedal and learn from that and experience the independent thinking,
which is, again, it's a control thing. Lose control, let yourself do it.
It's almost like, yeah, to look at the control point a different way, we were brought up in
government where we had to try to have functional control over a wide set of things,
but we didn't have full control over anything. When you can shed all of that functional control
and focus on getting full control of one thing, you're unstoppable. There's lots of people out
there that can kind of multitask and have functioning control over 10 different things,
but the one guy, the one gal who has full control over the one thing can't be stopped.
So Will said, yeah, multitasking is bullshit. Can't happen. Just can't do it because just
never get back to the thing that you're supposed to be doing, you know? And I just think you're
opening people's eyes to that, to the ability to do that and to think about
what they can, not only what they can learn, but what they can do and think about being,
you guys are independent thinkers. That's what you do. You question things, but with
background, that's significant. We don't agree with your questions. We don't agree with your
point of view sometimes, but you still run a platform where we can basically sit here and
make fun of Julian's tin hat. Right. Exactly. And you can sit here and tell me all day long
that I'm lying to you about not being current COA. That's the kind of thing that doesn't get to
exist. And people that bitch and moan, we're talking about the people that are complaining all the
time, this didn't happen, whatever. There are people that don't have an independent thought. So
what is there? What is there one thing bitch and moan? That's what they do. And they're great at it.
And it's instant gratification. It's instant satisfaction. Oh, did you see what I said?
And that dude said, okay, but what did you accomplish by having that instant, you know,
gratification? Nothing. Yeah. Nothing. You're back on the circle. So think about it. I find this
fascinating because I love watching your guys' podcast continue to grow and congratulations
on both of you. Oh, it's awesome. Yeah. One of my favorite things to do is to look at the comments
on one of your recent videos, the last whatever, a video from two weeks ago. And yeah, I know
you're laughing, Julian. Oh, yeah. They're great. When I look at it, I look at it just to see
how many people are making comments, because that's an indicator of engagement. And then
after I see how many people I'll open up and just kind of scroll through it to see how many
are positive comments and how many are negative comments. The vast majority of these negative
comments, right? Trash talking the guests, trash talking the host, trash talking whatever else.
What I think is awesome is that you guys see those comments the same way I do. People are
feeding the algorithm to make YouTube realize that your interview that you just did is interesting
to people. Oh, it's great. So then as they're as they're pissing all over us, they don't even
realize they're adding fuel to the vehicle to make it reach more people. 80 20 rule applies,
the more people that reaches 20% of those people are the right people, 80% of those people are
going to piss and moan about it, make a comment, fire it up, get it to more generated to the next
level. Yeah. I love it. And I love the fact that that's that's going to happen. It's going to
happen with this one too. There's probably somebody writing a negative comment right now. Oh,
they've already been there, my friend. That started at like timestamp to how do I delete
that thing? I don't want this to go to anybody. They don't realize that they just shut their
mouth. If all the naysayers just shut their mouths, no media would come to a screeching
hole. Isn't that interesting that you'll click on a YouTube video just so you can scroll right
past the video and read the comments. If you take a look, if you take a look at my Twitter account,
I'm pretty sure my Twitter account is. Oh, it's World War five. It's full of hate followers.
Yeah, really? Yeah. No, no one likes you. Have you heard of hate following? I love hate following.
People follow you just because they hate you. They hate they follow you so that they can be
the first one to shit talk to you as soon as you make a tweet. Yeah. No, your comments or
both of your comments are pretty crazy. Yeah, your comments are fucking hilarious. And I love it
because every I'll refresh my feet and every other comment is this guy wasn't a real CIA spy or like
this guy's taking over the world. I love when they correct. But it's like, I couldn't have happened
because whatever. And it's so easy to predict too, because if I have John Kariaki on here,
everyone's fucking kissing his toes. Yep. They love John Kariaki. It's the it's that's the way
that fucking the people on the internet confirmation bias. Yeah, exactly right. Confirmation bias.
But it's a great vehicle. I mean, it's it's fabulous. Truly. It's truly fantastic. It's
but we're right now we're talking about the easiest thing that shouldn't be taken for granted,
which is like, you know, the ability to communicate and how it's changing on like a mass level.
Great. Very important. I agree. I want to continue to see it like go this route of where
we're seeing a lot of good independent thought out there. But in society itself, and I mean this
around the world, you know, I just get the feeling all the time as a naturally positive guy,
you still have to be a realist about what's going on. And I've never felt things so fragile.
And it's like, when you look at history, effectively, the world got fragile the minute,
you know, we dropped to I don't know why we need to do two nukes on Japan. But that's another
question. But like, you drop a couple nuclear bombs, you prove that it's possible. And then,
you know, what a lot of people don't even realize is that within the next 10 years,
a lot of countries, including us, we're able to develop chemical weapons,
all these different things. And I look at this and I go, holy shit, we have had this stuff
for now 75 years, whatever it is. And for the most part, like we've been okay on like a mass
killing perspective in that way. Right. But now we're living in this world where every day I'm
like, when someone just like going to drop the microwave bomb, and we just all go, and you know,
this whole conversation about independent journalism doesn't exist because we don't
anymore. Where are the aliens? That's my question. I don't know. Let's just end it with that.
Rings of Saturn.
You know, it's funny, you said one of the guy who I was telling you about the Harvard guy was
also telling me about this technology that Air Force has, that is some sort of laser beam
hologram technology. And its purpose is designed to show up on fighter on radar of an enemy's
radar and show up like a fleet of planes or shit is coming at you. And really, it's just
fucking holograms. Yeah. And the first thing I thought about was the UFO sightings off those
ships and buddy. That's not just technology we have. That's technology that that is basically
laser pointers in the sky. And that's exactly how those fighter pilots explain and describe
its asymmetrical warfare. That's all it is. If you can make a radar system detect something,
then you've got an asymmetric advantage. You can turn one fighter jet in the sky into 15
fighter jets in the sky. You can turn zero fighter jets in the sky into a fleet of fighter jets in
the sky. You can make it look like an unidentified flying object off the coast of your carrier,
suddenly ducked into the ocean, ducked out of the ocean, and then flew straight up into the
atmosphere. You can essentially incapacitate any radar driven device with disinformation.
Is that what you think this is after we talked about this maybe almost a year ago?
Yeah. Would you have your opinion changed on it since then?
No. I mean, if anything, with the increased amount of research and the increased amount of
information that's come out since the government started releasing its UAP and UFO reports,
the overwhelming probability continues to point to
terrestrial explanations. Whether it's new weapon systems, old weapon systems,
experimental weapon systems, disinformation systems, whatever it is, that is still the
predominant description. There's fantastic reporting out there that explains the tic-tacs
that we're seeing. I mean, very sound, solid scientific explanations for how it's shadow
from radar, how it's the speeds that are reported are inaccurate compared to the actual speeds that
are reported on the actual airframes themselves that help to color with more scientific context
what those various UFOs were recorded by the Navy fighter jet pilots,
which also explains why they would be publicly allowed to be released,
because they're not in fact hyper-dangerous weapon systems from foreign governments and
they're not in fact suspicious foreign invaders. As far as the whole UFO conversation goes,
I still very much believe we have to lean on terrestrial explanations first. When those are
proven to be unreliable, then we can open the door to what's next. But we have to start with
what we know. That's what science is. You start with what you know.
How do you explain, how do you rationalize the New York Times articles coming out,
saying that we have to take these seriously as a otherworldly threat?
If the New York Times is coming out saying we have to take them seriously as an otherworldly
threat, then whoever that... Like literally the word threat they use.
I'm sure, but otherworldly is the thing that I don't necessarily believe.
Do we have to take them as a serious threat? Yes. If you have some sort of phenomenon happening
in the atmosphere that puts commercial airlines in danger or Perth's military aircraft in danger,
yes, that's a threat that you have to take seriously. But do you have to take it seriously
as an otherworldly alien species threat? No. I think the government is doing the right thing,
answering to the American public and answering to general flight safety and air superiority.
If you want to control the skies above a battlefield, you have to understand what's
happening in the skies above. That's why special operations have special ops meteorologists.
Because you've got to be able to control the sky. If there are pockets of gas and weird
lights and objects in the sky that could put a pilot at risk or put a drone in danger,
we've got to understand what it is. Is there a protocol for if a spaceship lands on the White
House lawn? Is there a government protocol? Somebody got paid for that. Had to happen.
Someone in Deloitte. No doubt. Sleepy Joe wasn't aware. What would that protocol be?
I don't know what it would be, but I was thinking, let me go back to the last bit of conversation.
So if you think about TWA 800, now we interviewed most... I love where your head's at.
What is that? We interviewed, so TWA 800 sometime in 95, I think it was July of 95.
There's a commercial airliner coming out of LaGuardia Airport, heading to France,
packed. It's a 747. Packed. There's probably 300, 280, 300 passengers on it.
It blows up in midair, about 13 miles off of the airport, and everyone obviously dies.
Is this like the soccer or the students or something? Students, that's right. It was students
going over to like some type of summer youth week in France. And you worked this case. You
weren't investigating this. So we put this thing back together over the course of a year,
and there's clearly a missile shot in the side of it. The explanation that the center gas tanks
on the 747 were not locked off. So they're supposed to be locked off so they can't pass
wing to wing. They can only take the fuel that they have, and either wing and the pilot couldn't
go ahead and switch out. So the explanation was, well, there was a little bit of a seal that was
not working, and it opened up and the thing blew up in the sky. I think we interviewed every
certified 747 pilot in the United States who all said that that's impossible, that that could have
happened. Take it forward. There was a Navy ship in the area that there was a rocket or a missile
that was seen traveling to the aircraft, a bunch of flames, and then basically the thing dropped
right after that. Let's take the technology that we just talked about. This particular person or
persons that were commanded that ship swore that they saw enemy aircraft in the air,
and that's why they made the shot. Now, that's gone. You can't find that anywhere just like the,
I hate to say this, but just like some transmissions with a couple of fighter pilots
right at, as 9-11 was happening, who supposedly may have caught up to the Shanksville aircraft.
I don't know that'd be a fact, but you can't find anything on that anymore. But it was out there,
the transmissions and everything. Yeah, I heard about that. In fact, those guys interviewed on
Nightline, the two pilots. Ted Goppel interviewed them. Here comes the comments. And then it's gone.
Right. But take that TWA-800, think about what we were just talking about with things in the sky
to make it look like as if there's a fleet of fighter jets rolling across from another country,
take the Navy ship in the area, take the witness accounts, eyewitness accounts,
including, I think, Pierre Salinger was one of the ones that actually reported on it.
Who knows, right? I mean, yeah, here we go. Conspiracy theory.
Right. Yeah, because I wonder if that was...
Let the skepticism begin.
The reason I was going to ask about that...
Right, though, makes sense, right?
It doesn't. And then what does make sense is that they had to stop,
you know, going back to like the TWA-800, though, like what does make sense is that
you can't admit that, right? So, all right, just straight up without going into
all the conflicting details with this and everything. It's like, you're a Navy ship,
you fire off test missiles, or you're off the coast of Long Island, and if you see enemy aircraft,
you're supposed to fire because you get one shot to do it.
You end up firing on a commercial airliner.
We all know what kind of hearings would happen in DC, the regulation,
and what you wouldn't be allowed to do anymore. And so, from a cost-effective
perspective, which is a very callous way of putting it, there's no reason to say that the
military, the Navy, whatever wouldn't make an assessment there in coordination with the top
levels of government to say, look, win some, lose some. This is an L. The public can't really
know about this, and we're going to move the fuck on. And then they shut down your investigation.
And again, that's a tough one because if there's no malice with it, which I guess we'll never
know, but I have no reason to believe, like, why would you shoot down a bunch of students going
to fucking France? You know what I mean? Like, there's no malice there.
No, absolutely not.
Then the bigger picture of like, all right.
That's just me thinking out loud about kind of tying together.
Right. Right.
You know, as we do so well, the agency and the bureau, we connect dots now together.
Have you ever seen the documentary? What was the documentary I told you to watch about 9-11?
Yeah, it was like four hours.
It was 9-11, the new Pearl Harbor. It was a four-hour documentary.
They take a lot of it.
I'm sure a lot of it is bullshit, but they go deep on it.
They interviewed, I think it was like 400 Boeing pilots and Boeing engineers.
This is just one of the things they had in there that stuck out with me the most.
They said that those Boeing jets could not fly at that speed, at that low of an altitude,
without the wings ripping off.
I got a theory on this.
What's your theory?
Call it the Julian Dory.
No, I'm just wondering what it is.
No, but like looking at the 9-11 thing, because you were there that day.
You're another person there that can speak to this.
I find that people who were below the age of at least six or seven,
sometimes a little older on that day, and or, and perhaps more importantly,
people who lived starting two states out, or call it 150 miles in radius from New York City,
are increasingly exponentially more likely to assume conspiracies at the highest level on
all of that, because they did not know people who were there that day in the building,
who went down with the building, or were on the ground, or one of each.
When you're someone like me, or especially someone like you, who was A, just past that age,
old enough to be able to understand what was going on, B, new people that died in there,
C, new people on the ground, D, new people that got out of the building and what they reported,
it is very hard to listen to some of the arguments that people try to make about how this was all
a fucking inside job, when they take liberties with what actually happened that day, and what
people reported when they were going through the building, and then they also switch around facts.
Now, are there things that were their mistakes made? Oh, fuck yeah, we already talked about it.
We know the CIA and FBI had a lot of issues going back and forth.
Furthermore, could there have been a couple rogue people in the government that maybe had
intelligence from a lookout? This wouldn't be the worst thing ever. Sure. And would the government
ever let the public know that? Absolutely fucking not. And of course, we want to know that, but
they're not going to do that. But what people do is they then take it down to George Tenet was
literally standing there controlling a missile that looked like a plane because it was graphically
edited to do that, and put it into the fucking Twin Towers, and we went over there to kill a
million Iraqis. And that's where I go, hold on a fucking minute, take a step back. That's not
what this was. What people don't want to look at with the conspiracy of like 9-11 is the very real
possibility that a bad thing could happen. Bad people in the government might have been like a
human being that day upset it did, who then also then took advantage of every fucking thing that
it allowed them to do to be able to take other powers that perhaps liberties that they didn't
have the power to take in the past and set all these precedents that get us to this point where
you had this world changing event that changed everything changed our way of life and has now
gotten us to a point in the country where 20 years later, more than 20 years later, we're
literally more divided than ever and people are looking for a search for meaning so they find it
in Twin Towers going down that day and a fucking Pentagon hit. I don't know why on the internet
that's a controversial opinion but apparently it is and like when I watch a documentary like that
which I do, I actually want to watch it again, you know, they can tie together some things that
make sense but then they'll, to go back to the conspiracy point, they'll tie nine things together
that make no fucking sense. Absolutely. None. Absolutely. And then when you had the problem,
another problem is when you have things declassified like Operation Northwoods, that's not a very good
look either. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. And there's tons of questions. I mean, there is tons of questions,
there's tons of things that were never answered, tons of things that were hidden, like all the
tapes that were hidden, you know, that I guess there was. Can you tell people what that was?
Just that thing? Where? Northwoods? Oh, Operation Northwoods was a declassified operation that was
planned by I believe Alan Dulles, who is the head of the CIA, to fly a empty airliner, passenger
airliner over Cuba and shoot it down and then claim that Cuba shot it down to create a false
flag to invade Cuba. That's pretty terrifying when you read through it. They didn't like Cuba,
man. Fuck. Yeah. That was during the whole Kennedy thing. Yeah. And Kennedy was the one who shot
that down, right? Or who ended that? Oh, here we go. We got the fucking, oh, there we go.
13 March 62. You write this, Jim? I was my first document. So just so, you know,
random admin geek insight. So if you look at the classification at the top,
oh, please zoom back out. Zoom out a little too much. Yeah, top secret, special handling,
no foreign. What does that mean? That was very, very classified back then. TSSH,
right? That top secret is by itself, it means you can only see it if you have a top secret
clearance. Special handling is above special compartment information. It's a subset within
special compartment. So if you have SCI and access to special handling, that's what special
handling means. So if there are 10,000 people with the top secret clearance, there might be
1,000 with SCI, there might be 100 with special handling. And then the no foreign, it means no
foreigner is allowed to see this. Oh, wow. And that's specific because it means this cannot
be seen by any American allies. No Canadians, no Australians, no New Zealanders, no Brits.
So that's what the no foreign means. So this was very, very classified if that was the original
classification. Yeah, so it's pretty. And it's still, I mean, not many people know about it.
Really, not many people know about it. There's a small, like you said, the 80-20 rule. There's
really not many people who pay attention to this. Yeah, can you scroll down? Scroll down
so you'll see on the lower left hand corner of the report. Might be right here. Stop right there.
No, keep going down. Yeah, I'm looking for, stop there a second. Nope, go back up.
Top secret. How do we get this? Who leaked this? I don't know. That's a good question.
It's not a leak. If it's unclassified. Yeah, it's unclassed. They released it.
It was probably taken to a reading room. Yeah. Yeah, NSA archive too.
Now, how do we get all this stuff on fucking Kennedy's assassination? There's a reason.
That was extended. Yeah, that was extended. What? Oh, wait. No, that's, what does that say?
21 and a half. What would happen? Reviewed by a JCS on May of 84.
If you were like, we all want to see the document. Classification continued.
There it is. So continued after 84. Yep, let him. Let the word go forth.
This document does not have the proper markings, Eric. What were you saying, Julian?
I'm saying, if we all wanted to like not have any consequences for anything and like just kind
of like, no, we'd all love to see the JFK document. Yeah, obviously. But like,
there was a second shooter on the, on the grassy knoll. No doubt.
There's a 99.9 actually 100,000% chance that that person was traceable to individuals in
four different layers, three different layers, two different layers, one layer in a fucking mobster
removed from individuals at the CIA. And so even if it were rogue elements there,
if you release that document 60 years later tomorrow, and it says that the trust in the
CIA has gone forever, it doesn't matter if 60 years ago, it's like, oh my God, you guys whacked
the president, but there's no treat. What Andy's saying is there doesn't matter if there's trust
or not. What would happen? What would be the implications on society if we all found out?
They said, okay, yep, we plotted to kill Kennedy. We whacked him.
I could think what would happen. How many people would even pay attention to it?
All you need is that 0.01% chance you didn't that, that seed of doubt over there.
It allows us to continue. That's the problem.
So I want to make sure that I highlight, Julie, and that your whole, you've slipped in this
rogue element thing, like rogue officer, rogue element, right? It's not, it's kind of like from
Princess Bride. I don't think it means what you think it means, right? We've talked about
Harlan's razor, right? No. Never subscribe to conspiracy. What can be explained with idiocy?
Oh, that's what that is. Okay.
Never subscribe to conspiracy. What can be explained with idiocy? It's much more realistic
that somebody just had to go poop and they didn't read that report on that could have saved 9-11.
It's much more likely that that person was just feeling sleepy and went to go get a cup of coffee,
ended up in a long conversation, came back up and forgot which document he was reading.
And just did the crossword puzzle and went home.
Much more likely that happened than some rogue, rogue officer saw this piece of killer bullet
proof evidence and said, I'm just going to let this pass and let them all burn. Right?
The thing is, nobody, you want to know what people are really uncomfortable with the idea of
incompetency in the government. That's what they're so uncomfortable with that
that they'd rather believe the government is so intelligent that they can keep a conspiracy.
Then why did all those people in government and politicians sell off all of their American
airline stocks two weeks before 9-11? It's the same thing that happened here with the guy who
said, I'm going to die in the Bahamas. It's not going to be suicide. It's the FBI. It's the CIA
suiciding me. They've done that before though, no? Yeah. You've always got to be ready to consider
correlation versus causation. And that's a fair point. And again, it goes back to something else
that we were saying earlier, which is that when you use that logic, though, you can always say
it falls on the side of correlation or a coincidence or whatever, because you're already
saying that 99% of the time, that's what it is. So this isn't the 1%. And that's where, you know,
look, I'm some fucking guy in an armchair. I'm not sitting there looking through government
documents down in Langley. So I can only know what I know. And I also get pissed off when everyone
says, every goddamn thing is a conspiracy. It's like, no, it's not. But then where do you throw
him a bone and say, well, yeah, this, this one was, we'll give him Epstein. Yeah. Even then,
even then, right? Like, Epstein is proof of criminal activity, not proof of high level
government conspiracy. Right? It's still not smoking gun. You know what is smoking gun?
Criminal activity, not high level. I mean, we did find OJ innocent in this country. So I guess
smoking gun is real fucking subjective. Definitely. What kind of country you don't think Epstein's
smoking? What kind of country do you want to live in? Do you want to live in a government,
in a, do you want to live in a country where you go to jail only with a smoking gun? Or do you want
to go to jail in a country that says, eh, there's like a 15% chance that I'm right. So send them off
just to be safe, just to be safe. That person should go to jail. That's a fair, right? So all
those, it's just one of those things. So what was Epstein? Epstein was, is still a big question
mark in a lot of world, in a lot of places. There's information we're not allowed to see.
There's information that nobody has. There's tons of criminal activity. But you know what,
like tons, when you have professional politicians, that lends itself towards criminal activity.
When you, when you have a system where the same politicians that dictate the law
are the politicians who are elected to make the law, and then what law, what laws do they have
to follow? Right? That's, you've got super PACs out there or funding who the politician's going
to be. You've got lobbyists out there deciding who's going to be. It's, it's not a government by
the people for the people like it was intended to be. And even then it was never intended to be
a government for the people by the people. It was a government intended to be for land-owning
individuals by land-owning individuals. Oh yeah, we had to change that. I don't know
if we ever actually changed it either, right? Are you talking about like how we were still like a,
like a slave-driven society? Yeah, my point is our country was founded. Our entire government was
founded on the idea that you don't get a say unless you own land, which is a way of saying you
don't get a say unless you have a stake in the long-term success of the country. Now we are a
country where you can have a say and you can be wholly against the government itself and you
still have an equal say to somebody who has a business, has land, has multiple kids, has whatever
else, right? I'm not saying it's right or wrong. I'm just saying let's notice where we were, where we
are, right? And where we're going. Yeah. Ideally, where are we going? Let's, let's, their votes as
good as anybody. For a second, let's, let's play, let's play a realistic, not realistic, like something
that definitely has happened as far as like where intelligence has been used through criminal
enterprises to be able to get information and let's remove like Epstein from the equation.
Let's say that you are a government A. It's going to be any power, pick any powerful government in
the world, US, Russia, China, France, Britain, Israel, Israel and pick any one of them. And you
are sitting in a room. Let's say you're sitting in a room in the mid 60s right now and you are
saying to yourself, okay, we are focused on the survival of our country, not 10 years from now,
not 50 years from now, but a thousand years from now. And that could also include, you know,
every country I just named is an ethnicity too. So let's even include that with perhaps with the
exception of America in a way, obviously, but like they're looking for the survival of their
people to be able to have a place in the world and not be threatened in the future. And you have in
this room, the president or prime minister, the fucking head of the intelligence, the head of the
national police and maybe one or two other people, it is the top guns on a need to know basis. And
you say to yourself, okay, what's the best way for us to be able to survive? Well, it's to have
leverage. It's to have a need so that other people who aren't like us from other places have to help
us out when we call upon them. I think this is going to go a lot better if you don't answer your
own questions. I'm not, I'm not, you just answered your own question. Because you said, what are they
going to think? They're going to think we need to do this this way. This, that's what you just did.
Yeah, but, but I'm saying like, think about it in the worst, like actually put the visual on it.
Okay. And you're saying, what if, what if we needed to get leverage over these people to be able to
do what we need to do? So right away, you're assuming that the best solution is to get leverage over
the people. It's and you know, their darkest secrets. You tell me it's not. Nope. Nope. How do
you, how do you ensure the survival of a country for 1000 years?
A being a bunch of different, yeah, a bunch of different, you don't try to leverage the people
you take the choice away from the people. Yes, by leveraging them. But how do you take
wise China buying up every single fucking port around the world because they just enjoy collecting
ports? They're, they're not leveraging. They're not leveraging people. They're literally just
rewriting the rules. That's not leverage. That's not leverage means it takes effort to try to put
your leverages another way of saying debt. It means you, how's that not debt? That's literally debt.
I go buy Greece's fucking port for $600 billion or $600 million, whatever it was. Yeah. And now
Greeks owe me shit. How's that not leverage? So because China's not leveraging China. Greek
is the Greek in that example, Greece is leveraged. Yes, this is okay. So let's go right back to it.
This is exactly what I'm saying. So you are these people in a room from country A and you are saying
I'm focused on our survival. And the only way to do that is to get leverage off of all, pick out
all these powerful nations and the people who are in them who mean something and have a say,
would you not sit there if you're just thinking in this way? And I'm actually trying to look at it
from their perspective of like, they're not, they're not being evil, but they can lead themselves
to think and do an evil thing that's passed the line. Would you not sit there? Would you not be
able to see them sitting there in that time? And in this group think room of five people focused
on this one thing, be able to convince themselves like, you know what, yeah, we would sacrifice
50,000 girls over the next four or five decades to make sure we were able to do that. Because
what's the one thing no one can come back from? Fucking a kid. It's the one thing you can't come
back from. O.J. Simpson's out there tweeting and he fucking hacked his wife to death. Now,
I would argue he didn't really come back, but there's other people who have come back from
horrible things. You can't, once you, once you are a kid fucker, you're a kid fucker. It's done.
You haven't traveled to Pakistan, India, the Philippines, Thailand, I'm talking about in
the, in the power, in the power countries. What do you mean? What do you mean when you say that?
Those, I mean, child prostitution is a very real thing all over the world.
Yes, I know that. I'm saying in the United States it's not accepted in public though.
You didn't say anything about it being an American. You said a powerful country
and then you listed off a whole bunch of different examples.
Britain, United States, France, like there's plenty of powerful countries out there
where it's a totally normal thing. It's not newsworthy at all. And let's not forget that
let's not glorify the United States where we have a massive human trafficking of children
problem. Right. Right. So there's plenty of ways that you can bounce back just fine all over the
world. You're like, it's not like a death sentence to engage in prostitution or child prostitution.
Yeah, but not with people who make laws, not with people who make the rules.
Yes. Those are exactly the people who make the rules are the people who have the most power.
Again, if you're, I think the problem here is you're actually trying to veiledly talk about
the United States by using this, by using this hypothetical country.
So then if you're talking about a hypothetical country, we can talk about real countries where
it happens all the time, including the United States.
Right. But if you're a country who has bigger threats that your threats are the other three
big countries that are much bigger than you have much more powerful people that could easily
take you over or easily destroy your race or your culture or whatever it is,
you want to have leverage on the tippy top people of those top countries, those top nations.
So you're going to try to blackmail them with child prostitution. That's what you're saying.
Okay, got it. Yeah. I mean, leverage, hey, leverage is in power, right? So we're, we're
mutually assured destruction still exists. You know what I mean? The fact that Putin's in power
and he's got nuclear weapons, the fact that North Korea has nuclear weapons, the fact that
Pakistan has nuclear weapons, that's, that's really where the leverage lies on each other.
Nobody wants to die, right? We don't want to be extinct as a population. Now,
the rest of what you're talking about with, with child labor and child slavery and those issues
are very, are very real. However, I've been to Thailand. I know Andy has been to certain places
where it's the accepted way of culture. Not for us. We get picked up immediately by
people that watch out for that to happen to us, not that we would select to do it, but make sure
that they're not selecting us. Yes. Kind of thing, right? So when I, when I think about leverage on
top people, it's never going to happen. Efficiently, efficiently, you're not going to go down the road
of blackmail. Blackmail is an unpredictable one's, one swing, one attempt to blackmail somebody. If
it works, it might work for a short period of time, but it's much more, it's much more controllable
to gain leverage over somebody with a strong deterrent. Yep. So if I had, would you say it worked
with Epstein? Well, we can't know the full extent, but I would say yes. If you would say the theory
is true, would you say it was, would you say it was effective? All I'm saying is if the news were
able to come out that, that pick any of the last five presidents, like any of them. Yeah. If the
news were ever able, that's the highest level. If the news ever came out while they held any power,
so let's say while they were in office, that there was irrefutable evidence that they were
fucking a kid. And no, I'm not talking about Monica Lewinsky, because she was fucking 21 years old.
I'm saying like dead seriously. If it came out, they're like, Oh, they're fucking 14 year olds.
They're done. They're done. Agreed. Benito. Yeah. Agreed. But I think what we're saying is knowing
that's not going to put another country in power over the United States.
Yeah. And why not? And it's just never going to happen.
But that's never going to happen. Why? It's because, because the United States is not here
than a president. And we're nobodies. It wouldn't happen to us. We've traveled to the country.
I can tell you the the in brief is I'm going to be on your ass and I want to make sure nobody
approaches you. Because you go to wash your hands. I was undercover in Thailand. You go to wash your
hands and there's a girl sitting on the faucet. You got to like move her out of the way. Yeah. So
it's just the accepted way of their culture. You're trying to ask us to prove to you
in a conversation why an unlikely situation isn't likely going to happen and why even
if it did happen, it wouldn't create enough leverage to unseat a nation state or to put
one country over another country. It just like that's an impossible task that you're asking
for in the first place. If you just think through it logically, how many controversies
have happened of any kind all over the world where the country remains even though the head of
state's replaced? Oh, yeah. Yeah. But it's not. But if the head of state and the black mailer
are the two people in possession of this knowledge and no one else knows and then the head of state
in their own for sure is going to call the bluff. They're going to say black mailer,
do it. I dare you. And you better do it faster than I can use my executive authorities to have
you assassinated. So if I have video of that, dude, deep fake, you prove to me it's not a deep
fake. All right. In 2000, how could it be a deep fake? Proved to me that it was from 2000.
Right. No, no, no. I'm saying like, let's say, no, let's totally go back 20 years ago, not in
2022. Who's got the burden of evidence? Yeah, you could easily make a video look like it was shot
10 years ago. Correct. Even if you- No, no, I'm saying like, let's go back right now and say this
happened in 2000. Julian, do you see what you're doing? You are now artificially creating the
confines of the exercise to tighten it up to this place because you're looking for something
specific. You're not having a hypothetical conversation. You're digging for some kind of
specific parallel. You're not having a true- I think you just can't- I know where you're coming
from and I get it, but the leverage just isn't that particular piece. Determine is everything.
Just knowing- Blackmail is the weakest leverage in the world.
You can come out and just say, okay, you know, an admission, you know, just come out. Listen,
I made a mistake. I didn't know she was 14. How many judges have we had say that?
And you have a million people come behind you and say, he really didn't and he's really in
care. He goes away. Right. But when you fight it, that's when it becomes leverage. When you
continue to say, what are you going to do? Like, you know, take it to another level.
The person, I was just, I don't know if I was telling you guys, one of somebody I know had an
instance where with gift cards, you know, hey, I'll fix your computer if in fact you just go out
and buy me $5,000 worth of Sephora gift cards. At the end of the day, you know, as long as you
come clean at that point and say, oh my God, you know, I had no idea what was going on, whatever,
it goes away on a different level. You know, it's the same thing. Hey, I know you're saying this,
but he, he didn't do, you know, he didn't know, he didn't do it, prove it, whatever.
I know it's not comforting. I know it's not comforting. It's not a deterrent.
At least you, you're, you're taking, you're not playing word jujitsu with what I said. You are
taking, and that's exactly why I brought it up. You're taking what I said and you're extrapolating
it into these very real hypothetical situations and I can accept that because that's, and that's
why I'm asking it because it's like, would this have that type of power? And you're saying hypothetically
in a lot of situations, not necessarily. Correct. Okay. Right. But couldn't it be useful on a smaller
scale? Couldn't it be used for influence? Like to say, okay, Clinton knows he was in your house,
fucking getting a massage and a rubbing tug from a 14 year old. I think I'm not going to say it.
I'm not going to bring it up. But next time I ask you for a favor, you're going to know
subconsciously that that exists. For a certain, so it has a shelf life, right? Because eventually
you're going to come to the people that you trust and say, look, I might have got jammed up. Yep.
I might have done something stupid. And then it goes away, right? But there's a moment of, of
uncomfortableness. It's like anything, any of our relationships, something happens. You know what?
I screwed up. The other thing goes away. There's nothing you could say after that.
The biggest reason why this blackmail has a shelf life is because the person who becomes the blackmailer
at some point in time, if they choose to execute that card, now they have to publicly explain
why they held that secret for so long. That's the shelf life. But here, yeah. So I guess my point
is they don't want to publicly bring, they don't want to publicly use that card. They just want
to keep it as unconscious leverage. Correct. For a shelf life. And they better be perfect. Yep.
In their world. Because deterrent, what we're talking about, mutually assured destruction,
I can guarantee you, you give me a couple of days, I'll find your piece. And then now we're,
and that's a lot of times that's what may happen, that we don't see behind the scenes with a guy
like Epstein. So when you, you know what I mean? Like, what did, what did we kind of show him that
may have been? Well, we know what we showed him. Showed him a noose, you know, I mean, basically.
But, um, well, I'm not saying that anyone get it, just saying that's kind of what happened.
Where were you that night, Jim? Yeah. What was, uh, what was Epstein? What was
Ghislaine, Gislaine's, her dad? What was the story with her dad again? Well, her dad is, is,
did she hold the book? He was, he was, I think so. Yeah. She had the book, right? He was a
Mossad asset. And he was the biggest, he was the biggest like media guy in where? Where was,
where was he? He was like in Britain. In Britain. And it was all a house of cards too. He actually
left a giant fraud for his kids when he died. Right. He was like the Rupert Murdoch of Britain.
Yeah. But even look at client number nine, right? That guy's lived, was it, was it Elliot's,
Elliot Spitzer? Was that his name? The mayor or the governor of New York? I mean, that goes away.
He's, he's thriving. And the woman is thriving. Yeah. Ashley DePri. She's thriving. She,
she lives down at the Jersey shore. She's owns her own stores and hangs out, married like top
money, you know, she was one of the victims, right? No, she was the hooker. Oh, she was,
she was the one client number nine. She made money and took them down. Yeah. Oh, wow. Yeah.
Look what happened to, uh, what's the, what's the prince's name that did the interview,
the fucking interview with Prince Andrew? Prince Andrew. Oh yeah. The forgotten prince. Oh yeah.
I don't think he's like the brightest pope. No. I don't think there's a time going on up there.
Might have been some of that like royal incest. They told him he was a prince. He came out in
purple. Like, no, you're not that prince, bro. That kind of prince. You're actually a prince.
Oh, all right. Sorry. All right, guys, that was three and a half hours. It was three and a half
hours. Andy, I don't want to make you late. I appreciate it, brother. Thank you guys so much.
Thank you. Both of you guys. Keep up the good work, man. We love it. Tell the people listening
where they can, uh, learn more about what you guys are doing. Yeah. If you want to find me,
you'll find me at everydayspy.com. You'll find me on my podcast, the everyday espionage podcast.
And if you're on social media, you'll find me everywhere at everydayspy. Awesome. J3global
for me. Um, I just did a new website. Check it out and give me your input. Um, and, uh, also on
LinkedIn, LinkedIn is really where I, where I shine. So I'll see on LinkedIn, look me up,
friend me up, send me a message. And the trend of fire podcast soon to be the Julian Dory experience.
It's not going to be experience. The Julian Dory podcast. There'll be a name change
announced early next year, I think. I'll link below guys. Don't want to spoil it. Sleep tight,
everyone. Thanks, guys.
