I have a genetic break that I am one of those guys that does not respond to hallucinogens
Really?
This appointment.
Wow, that sucks.
I mean, I grew up in the 60s, so, you know.
Nothing?
Nothing.
Not even weed?
No.
Weed?
What are you talking about?
That's like...
Like marijuana edibles or nothing like that?
That's just THC and God knows, you know.
I'm talking about LSD.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry to hear that.
I'm talking about LSD.
I'm talking about ayahuasca.
Mushrooms.
MDMA.
Mushrooms.
Nothing.
You know, nothing.
Oh, I might, some, you know, this, it's so subtle, it's difficult to tell if it's the
effect of the hallucinogenic or if it's just me wanting it to be the effect of the hallucinogenic.
So, colors on occasion seem to look a little bit brighter, but it's such a...
It's such a high tolerance, man.
Disappointment, you know.
You just showed up to the podcast with 16 cans of energy drinks, bro.
We got about 2,000 milligrams of caffeine sitting on the table right now for those of
you out there watching.
Are we recording yet?
Yeah.
Oh, okay, cool.
We're talking really fast, both of us.
Yeah, yeah, we're fired up today.
But hey, we're drinking goat fuel.
We're drinking goat fuel, and I'm drinking goat fuel, and I'm drinking this stuff.
This is the first time I've ever had kratom.
Kratom?
Kratom.
Yeah, you could probably say that.
My buddy, Egon, sent me this stuff.
I've never had kratom or kratom before, but I'm going to see how it works, because I
didn't get any sleep last night, as I told you.
Yeah, I know.
Well, with all this remote viewing stuff, have we been able to figure out, can we use
that remote viewing to figure out who built the pyramids?
No.
No, because you don't have any empirical evidence, you only have anecdotal evidence.
I mean, could you get a team of remote viewers together and work that in the blind as a target?
Yes, you absolutely could, but it has to be done correctly.
You have to have a team.
They have to be isolated or insulated from the target or the target data or the purpose
of the target, and they just get a limited target briefing, and so in the blind, either
CRV or ERV, they do their work.
They capture their sketches, so they have verbal, visual, sensory data that they perceive,
and they can have, in a good session with a trained viewer, they can have upwards, if
they go all the way through stage six, they can have 45 to 65 pages of data, and so they
can have several hundred or pushing 2,000 data points, and then the process is trying
to take the data points of all the viewers and see how those cluster together, because
what you're trying to get is, you're trying to get patterns established.
You're going to see clusters of data that match, and then you're going to see highs
and lows and outliers that, they're still counted as data, but you give them less statistical
significance, and when you put that picture together, then there has to be a program manager,
which is typically me these days, sitting down and assembling the data to create the
picture, so when you see what we're doing on History Channel, on Beyond Skinwalker,
you're now seeing what are called enhanced aggregate sketches, and all those kinds of
things, because we're taking the sketches and the components that are coming from all
the viewers, and the producers are looking at it with me and going, yeah, this, and this,
and yeah, we want that, and this one is meaningful to us, because let's face it, not everybody
is a good artist, even as a remote viewer, some are far better than others, and it's
always the ones that are good sketch artists that people perk up and look at, but having
been a guy that's taught so many people for so many years, I look at them all and see
value in all of them, and I don't care if somebody is able to draw a very elaborate box,
and somebody else can barely draw a square, I mean, to me, as an evaluator, an analyst
in that respect, they work, but now what we're doing so that we don't have individual viewers
laying claim to what shows up on air, because that is not what I want done, I don't want
that, and they do that, so if they see the show airs, they're firing up the social media
and going, right here at 1629, that's my sketch, it was a group effort, it was a team effort,
a team of 70 viewers, or a team of 35 viewers, and everybody provides valuable input, so
it's important just to understand how we're doing and what we're doing, and understand
that with that, we can give a lot of really good information, and in this case with Beyond
Skinwalker Ranch, it ends up being information that they really like, because it gives them
an answer, even if it's an anecdotal answer, or a team-derived answer, or a visual, because
they have so many unknowns there when they're doing this research, like why is that happening,
I don't understand that, this gives their viewing audience at least some version of what it might
be, we're not ever going to say it's accurate, or I mean that it's absolute, or that's what
it is. Yeah, it doesn't pass the scientific
method, but it's still fascinating. It is fascinating, and it won't let you down as
long as you follow the rules of it, it won't. I just got to imagine, if I was you and I
had spent decades in these top secret remote viewing programs, I would have wanted to know
who built those pyramids, and how can I figure, how can we at least go out and get some anecdotal
sketches, or just like, let's just get 5% there to the answer, even if we can't get
the full scientifically proven answer. Sure.
How would we do that if we wanted to? You assemble a team.
Do you know how, like how do you decide how far back in time you go, you assemble a team.
It's all based on your concept, so it's all based on if I'm playing program manager, it's
up to me to establish, remember the event arc of time we did in the last, okay, it's up to
me to establish where that center line is in the event arc, where that main event point
is, so if you're, and you also have to remember.
You have to pick a specific place in time. Yes.
You can look across the arc, but the broader your target, the broader the timeline, the
more scattered will be the data, because different viewers will start to access and perceive
information along a different signal line anchored to a different piece of that event arc of
time, so some of them may see it when they're laying a foundation, others may see it when
they're laying the top corners that stone on or something else, so you need to pinpoint
to a specific time, make that your concept and make it very strong, and that's how you
assign the coordinates. They are based on the concept of the target in the mind of the
individual assigning those coordinates.
So if you picked a target of say 20,000 years ago on the Giza Plateau where the great pyramid
of Giza is located right now, you would be able to hold that in your mind and somehow
aim these targeters, or you're the target, but you would aim the viewers towards this
specific time and location, and then they would come back to you with scattered data
and may not land on exactly 20,000 years ago, some of them might be 15,000 years ago, or...
Yeah, exactly, that's the theory of how it works.
What do you tell them specifically?
What you tell them, especially when you're doing it in the blind and you have them isolated,
you give them a target briefing and you will say, if you have a really experienced remote
viewing group, they've gone through CRV, ERV, and they have years of targets under their
belt, you could give them kind of a limited front load, and what that means is you could
say, this target is backwards in time. You don't want to do that to new viewers because
it starts their imagination rolling and they cannot get out of the way. They will run over
themselves throughout the entire session because backwards in time, so then they immediately
start going to period costume and other stuff, and you have to be careful with it. It's why
the isolation, working in the blind, limited front loads to only experienced viewers or
if there's a purpose in giving a limited front load, but something like that, and I think
20,000 miles will put you back in the dirt. I don't think anybody's...
20,000 years.
20,000 years, I don't think anybody was there at that time, so I mean, we're only talking
about 4,000 years ago, 5,000 years ago for...
That's when they think that they were built.
Yeah, 20,000 years ago?
No, they think they were built 2,500 years, 2,500 BC.
Oh, okay, well...
But I don't know how deep you dove into it, but I've had to...
4,500 years ago, so...
So that's the academic accepted Egyptologist's theory on it, but we don't have any evidence.
The only tools that we have evidence for 2,500 year, 2,500 BC is stone chisels and pounding stones.
So there's another hypothesis that a lot of really smart archaeologists and historians
and researchers have come up with that those things are far older, and they existed before
12,900 years ago when there was a cataclysm, either a solar event or a comet event,
where there was a series of comets that hit the earth and wiped out most of civilization.
More likely the comet, yeah.
And then the idea is there was a far more advanced civilization here
more than 13,000 years ago that was responsible for all the megaliths that are built.
And that comet cataclysm, which is called the Younger Dryas Hypothesis,
wiped out that advanced civilization and kind of like hit the reset button on civilization,
and then came, basically sent us back to the Stone Age.
And then you have like the Egyptians that were there doing, writing hieroglyphs on these massive
megaliths. And those hieroglyphs, they're not perfect, they look like they're carved with
copper chisels, like it looks like toddlers work compared to these perfectly symmetrical
100 ton granite blocks that exist. So yeah, so a lot of people are hypothesizing that those
pyramids were way, way earlier than 2500 BC. So that's why I'm so fascinated by the idea of
remote viewing back there, because I want to see what the fuck was going on.
So then just picture the intricacies and how that experiment has to be set up.
You have to start at a fixed point in time, and see what the viewers produce around that point
in time, and probably work several episodes, several targets on that, looking for patterning of data,
repeat data, etc. The viewers aren't told anything. They just work the target again,
and again, and you can assign different coordinates to the target. But you're doing it all around
a fixed period of time. You're trying to develop the most significant portrait of what is there
based on their verbal and visually sensory data that they pull out, the emotional data,
intangible data, all of those things that they're going to pull out. And as long as well as colors
and temperatures and textures and tastes and sounds and smells, energetics, the dimensionals,
you're looking for simple contour sketches, you're looking for textural sketches,
and as it goes on, it becomes more elaborate, and they start to get more detailed. Now they're
going into stage three, and it's getting more elaborate. They're starting to be perspective.
Those that can, you end up with foreshortening and all kinds of other things in the sketches,
and by the time you get to stage six, now it's geospatial sketching. Now what they're doing is
pulling together everything that they have detected, decoded, and objectified from a visual
perspective, and a verbal sensory data that supports the visual and visuals that support the
verbals, and they start to assemble a big picture. And after you did three, and I suggest three,
because then you have some statistical relevance by having that kind of sampling from that group,
and you're doing it three times, at the same target, but you're changing the coordinate of
the target, but the intention of the target stays the same. That will probably sound confusing to
you, but just trust me, you're sending them back into the same, you're sending them back into the
same swimming pool, so to speak, but you're just, you're basically telling me to get in in different
places. Interesting. And what they would come out with then, paints a picture, albeit anecdotal,
you can measure it against whatever known quantifiable attributes are available
from an archaeological perspective, and then you would have to give them some time to shake it off,
and then your experiment continues. Now you may want to go back a thousand years,
so the intention of the next target series is back a thousand years, same place back a thousand
years. Now theoretically, and having done it, it'll not to the degree we're talking here, but
it would get back, you would go sliding back incrementally to the point where
it wasn't there anymore, right? Right. You get to the place where it doesn't exist,
or you get to the place, you're trying to find the edge, which the edge in the time arc where
the construction begins. It's like you're blindfolded, like trying to feel around the room to figure out
what's where. Yeah, except you're seeing with non-physical eyes, you're perceiving, they perceive
textures, and it all depends on their modalities of perception. There are a number of modalities
of perception. You can be tactile, you can be auditory, gustatory, you can be visual.
There are a bunch of different things that are in there that they can be, and they all
determine, they start to find out in their very first CRV class, what their primary modalities
of perception are, and what their non-primary modalities of perception. For example, I'm a
visual audio, so I can see elements of the target. It's like looking at it like through
broken green glass is the best way to describe it. Like a minority report. Exactly, like a minority
part. This was exactly what I was going to say. That's the best remote viewing movie that there
ever was. Unintentionally, or do you think they knew? Well, I don't know. I have no idea, but they,
look, they had what, three precogs? So what's the first rule in remote viewing?
Or second rule, right? You never trust the results of a single remote viewer operating
independently of other remote viewers, meaning you have to be a team. If you're trying to use
one person, nobody is accurate all the time. So then you have no way of knowing unless you're
trying to calibrate them and track them over time and know on calibration targets, like test targets.
So you can tell whether they're going up in their curve and their performance curve are
coming back down again. And then you can, if you know they're coming up and you can see their rhythm
for when they're good and when they're bad, you know, then you pull them off and only put them
back into the problem when they're on the upswing before they hit the zenith and start back down
again. Everybody does that. Every aspect of your life can be looked at in that way. Nobody
has the same thing, the same performance, the same cognitive skills, the same levels of emotion,
perception. Nobody does in everything that we do, whether it's driving to work
in the same road, in the same car every day. Some days you are better and other than you are
other days, right? Yes. True in anything that we do. Yeah. It's absolutely true in the performance
of remote viewers, which is why, you know, I heard me the last time we talked, I said,
if somebody's telling you that I am always, you know, I am always, you know, at the highest
levels of accuracy, bullshit, you know, bullshit, and I can prove it, you know, I'll set the experiment
up and I'll prove to you and the public that you aren't. So anytime you hear that, you should
just dismiss it as brio. How do you determine who's a good psychic and who's not a good psychic?
The ability rests in all of us. It's not who's good and who's not.
All of us have this inherent ability. Remember that was one of the deliverables when SRI received
the sole source contract from the CIA with the first deliverable, and I'm distilling these down
because there were lots of deliverables, but the three main things that they were asked to do was
prove scientifically that ESP, this ESP, that this psychic ability or that, you know, this
just this extrasensory perception exists in human beings. Prove it scientifically that it does
or prove it that it doesn't. But you couldn't, right? No, they did. Oh, they did. That is exactly
what SRI did. And they brought, came back to the CIA and said, yeah, we are experiments and we have
done everything. We can work blind, double blind and do all these different things. And our data
allows us to conclude that this is an ability. It's real and it could, it can be
harnessed and honed and used. The CIA, being the CIA, always keeping, you know, somebody
between them and the problem, if it ever arises, are not going to just take one sole source contractors,
you know, version of that. They actually brought in two different auditing agencies.
I think one was Paralabs and I think that the other was SAIC. And they came in to review
SRI International's data, to review their methodology, to review, interview researchers,
investigators, analysts, et cetera, to see for researcher bias and all these other different
kinds of things. They came back and validated the data, but there were, you know, there were
some comments made, which I would fully expect because for one, there's probably a little bit
of envy from those other research agencies that are now acting as auditors because they all had
their own kind of sort of the same program, but they didn't get the CIA contract. So now they're
being asked to look at the guys that did get the CIA contract as a sole source, which always
pisses other competitors off. So they probably had to be a little nitpicky. And there were probably
some legitimate findings and recommendations about how to change some of the experiments
to make sure that there was no investigator bias. I know that one of the early processes in which
they were using, which is kind of where the coordinate remote viewing came from, is they were
actually using lat long. Really? Yeah. They were using lat long and... Latitude and longitude.
Latitude and longitude, which becomes a literal address on the planet's surface. And the problem
with that is people who work with latitude and longitude enough, when they see a latitude,
when they hear a latitude and a longitude, they can immediately index where that is.
Sailors, pilots, anybody that navigates by latitude and longitude, if they do it long enough
and you toss that to them, they can go, oh, I know where that is. That's South China Sea.
Yeah. They know where it is because it's quite literally a grid that's thrown over the Earth's
surface that they can now... They memorize it, right? So I mean, they may not be exact in the
minutes, but they are exact in the latitude and the longitude and whether it's north or south.
They can calculate that. It's just rote memory that comes to them. So that was a criticism.
And so then the issue was, okay, if we're not going to use latitude and longitude,
are we going to use grid mercader, which is what the army and the Marines use. Anybody that's a
ground force, they use grid mercader. And that divides the surface of the Earth up into
1,000-meter grid squares, 100-meter grid squares, 10-meter grid squares. So if you have a 10-digit
a 10-digit grid coordinate, it's like down to a 10-meter square, a 10-meter square.
And that, again, would have created the same problem over time in the experimentation.
It would devalue the results because you were giving them something that they could immediately,
at the speed of human thought, start to piece it together. And anytime you started giving them
grid coordinates, which were in the same area, then as soon as they hear the grid coordinate,
they're going to know where it is. And that was the other problem, is that the vast majority of
their targets in the experimentation process were right there in the Stamford and the Palo Alto area.
So it didn't take long for some of the test subjects to figure that out, like one time at
Stamford University, and the next time at some library, and the next time at something else,
and at something else. But the buildings sort of looked the same, the roofs looked the same.
So there were lots of things they didn't yet understand how they needed to
change the gestalts of the target around. They needed complex gestalts, not simple gestalts.
They needed to change the area and not keep sending viewers back into the same area,
and then qualifying the data as good, because after a while, there's less work doing the detecting,
right, decoding and objectifying, and more work just imagining and creating. So it destroys the
results. And that was a criticism, and I thought was well founded. And that is when, actually,
the concept of this two sets of four numbers came about, which was really, Targon put off,
had nothing to do with that, that came from Ingo Swan. And that was what was actually taught to
the folks that were in the unit when it opened at INSCOM, they had 10-digit grid coordinates.
SRI was still using lat-long or some other coordinate system, and they kept saying that
there was no way anybody could figure that out, because they had a random number generator that
told them where, which box to open and pull a target envelope out, so there was no way they
knew, there was no way the test subject knew. But it was just, I just think they should have
changed it the way they were told to change it. And I think eventually they did, but
that was a tough change for them, because they really thought as physicists that they had created
a foolproof process of keeping the test subjects in a blind situation or a double blind situation.
But as long as they were going to use actual coordinates, it was like giving an address
that somebody could eventually figure out where it is. It's like police officers or taxi drivers
or ambulance drivers, if they hear an address in their city, they know where it is, right?
They know right where it is, just because they memorized the city.
Who was that? I was just reading Annie Jacobson's book, The Phenomenon, and she was,
when she was talking about Erie Geller, there was a guy who'd like discovered Erie Geller
in Israel. I can't remember this guy's name. I think he was a, he was a psychologist and a
philosopher. Benzov, Yuri, no, I can't remember the guy's name. You know how I might be talking
about the guy who discovered Geller? He talks about like the different levels of consciousness,
how there's like the human level, and then there's like above that there's another level,
and there's like another level where everyone is connected, like consciously connected.
Well, the thing I like about Yuri that I always want to tell this story is that,
is that he was an Israeli paratrooper who fought against the Arabs and was wounded,
and when he came out of his army service, then he started building this, he started
learning to be an illusionist and do that kind of stuff, and that's when he started into it.
I don't know who found him or discovered him there, but they did bring him into
SRI, SRI with Pat Price, Erie Geller, they had Ingo Swan. I know that Tony Robbins,
Tony Robbins said that they brought him there as well. He stood up on a stage
with like 4,000 people in the audience and said that that's what he did,
so I don't know who the guy is that discovered him. I know you know who this guy is.
God damn it, it's going to drive me crazy. Yuri, he has done some funny things, man.
Yeah, the spoon bending shit is unbelievable. Yeah, I've looked at it very carefully,
and I cannot. Have you seen him do it in front of you?
Yeah, the first time I ever met him, we're on a book tour together.
Yeah, sorry, go ahead, keep going. We were, pardon me, we were both on a book tour,
and I was in Portland, Oregon, and I was on the Danny Bonaducci radio show.
Oh yeah, yeah.
And I was, that was crazy. I'm out waiting kind of the green room, it's not a green room, and
Yuri's in being interviewed, and when he comes out, before they swapped us, swapped guests over,
Yuri came over and introduced himself, said, you know, I'm looking forward to your book,
I've got this thing I want you to, I'm going to have my producer contact you for the Sir David
Frost show that we're going to be doing, and he goes, no by the way, let me bend a spoon for you.
And so he pulls a spoon out of his pocket, which he keeps some spoons in his pockets all the time,
and he, I looked at him, he was literally 18 inches from me, and I was like looking right at it.
He put his left foot against the copy machine, it was a big office copy machine, I just was
looking at everything he was doing, put his left foot against that machine, like he was
stabilizing something, and all he did, because I watched his hands and I watched the spoon,
and he started rubbing it, and it just, the bowl started dropping as he was rubbing it,
and then he just grabbed it and twisted it like that, and it pulls out a marker, a permanent
marker and signs the bowl in the inside of the bowl, and he goes, here, we'll be talking to you.
And it, you know, if it was a fake spoon, then the spoon he handed me that was bent that he just
signed, because it never left his hands, he just, you know, and I looked, I watched him do it.
Didn't you say he would do this at restaurants too? Oh yeah.
He would literally walk up and grab someone's utensils off the table and just bend the spoon.
All the time. Yeah, he would do that. He would, and of course his kids who were amazing and his
wife and his brother in law, Shippy, they'd just roll their eyes, because he would, if somebody
recognized him in the restaurant, he would walk over and bend the spoon right in front of him.
He would take their soup spoon or a fork or anything else right off their place setting,
and bend it right there for him and, you know, sign it. And people loved him for it.
Steve, I just emailed you a video. It'd be cool if we could show this to Dave and get his opinion
on it. This is the guy I found, I found who he was. His name is, this episode of the podcast is
brought to you by Bubbs. Bubbs Naturals is a badass company that has collagen peptides,
it has coffee creamer, has coffee electrolytes, and they are amazing because they are a tribute
company to a Navy SEAL and former CIA contractor, Glenn Bubbs Doherty, who died defending American
freedom in Benghazi Libya. Again, there is obviously no shortage of collagen products
available on the internet, but I support Bubbs because it is not only a superior product,
but they support American veterans by donating 10% of all their proceeds to veteran organizations
and 100% of their proceeds on Veterans Day. Bubbs collagen peptide packets are easy to use as a
daily supplement. I keep them in my truck and I drink them on the way to the gym. It's flavorless,
easy to mix nature, it makes it easy to mix into anything. I prefer mixing it in coffee. You may
not know, but after the age of 25, your natural production of collagen starts to fade, which can
severely impact your skin. And an interesting thing about collagen is the more you supplement with
it, the more your natural production increases. Since I started using it a few months ago, I've
already noticed a huge improvement in my joint connective tissues, my skin elasticity, and the
overall quality of my hair, believe it or not. You can support Bubbs and this podcast by visiting
BubbsNaturals.com and using the code DJP at checkout for 20% off your first order. Again,
that's BubbsNaturals.com and use the promo code DJP at checkout for 20% off. It's linked below.
Now back to the show. Itzak Bentov. Oh, Itzak Bentov. We talked about Itzak last time.
Itzak Bentov is a really famous Jewish physicist who, the book he wrote, Stalking the Wild Pendulum,
is probably one of the greatest works of just lay physics, you know, for people
that he created so that people could understand what a holographic matrix field is or a holographic
universe. So you could understand entrainment. So you could understand the electrostatic field
surrounding the earth. He coined these simple crazy little phrases, these explanations for people
that said, you know, we're just all raisins in the jelly, in the jello. And if one raisin is
vibrating at a higher frequency, right, at a higher, higher, stronger amplitude and at a higher
frequency, soon all of the other raisins in the jello will begin to resonate in that way.
And the only way they can't is if they can overpower that the amplitude and that frequency.
And if they can do that and they can have a constructive or a deconstructive wave interference,
they can overpower the other wave. But otherwise. Overpower the other wave. What do you think of that?
If you're producing, you know, in when we're talking about frequency, we're talking about
the number of waves in a given measurement, right? So if you're the frequency is low, like
25, okay, or high, like 250. Okay. 250 is a much higher frequency. There's more power in
in a, in the same space. So it's more dense. It has a higher wave impact. It hits more times,
right? Theoretically, right? And then if the amplitude of it is twice or a third more than
the amplitude of the other wave, what that more powerful way for the higher amplitude and the
higher frequency will do is if this other wave is there, that higher wave will have a destructive
wave form against it. It will, it will basically in late terms crush the other wave and then cause
the other way to sympathetically resonate with the more powerful higher amplitude and higher
frequency. Oh, wow. And that's what, you know, it sucks. Model for that was just talking about
raisins and jello. And it sunk in for a lot of people who didn't understand the physics of it,
the quantum mechanical versions of it or anything else or how that went to quantum mind and him
doing that and writing that book. I know a lot of physicists that have told me I became a physicist
because I read that book. Really? I fell in love with physics because I read that book. It's still
out there stocking the wild pendulum. Stocking the wild pendulum. Yes, Steve, play this video. This
video is incredible. So the question I want to ask you is where do you see us now in that
evolutionary development? Let me draw what is called a bell curve, which looks somehow like this.
It's being used in describing random events. The bulk of the population today is this intelligent,
moralizing, intelligent bipedal, right? And with a vertical spine. That's not a physics.
That's not physics, what you're talking about. Okay. It's just statistics.
That is, there are some people here in this area, very few people who are still gorilla-like.
That is the other area. They beat their chest when they see their neighbors and few other things.
And then we have other people who are here in this corner, very few of them
who are very highly developed. Because we say that evolution is now pushing mankind in this
direction away from the gorilla types towards the very highly evolved people. At this point,
we're here. What's going to happen maybe a million years from now? Half a million years from now.
This curve is going to shift. It's going to shift like this. That is, the bulk of the population
will be very, very highly evolved. We have gone away all together from the gorilla types,
no more gorillas. And what we have here now is the average man is now the retarded person
in evolutionary terms. What you can get away with back then. The bulk of the population is
extremely, very, very highly evolved. And the cutting edge of evolution here, these are very,
very highly evolved people. We can't even imagine what kind of person that will be.
We may not have a physical body at all. What's the habitat, so to speak, of this group here?
Well, you just go out and you find them. They're all over the place.
I'm sure you were speaking this guy.
The habitat of this group here.
Some uncontacted tribes on the left.
What do you think you find these people here?
So that you would find them in universities. You'd find the people who are very bright,
people who are in the leading edge of professions. That is an intellectual thing.
Well, I suggest that you find them in mental hospitals, in nut houses.
And the reason for that is that these people, they live in a different reality.
In a reality which is very changed, and few of them are adapted to live in this reality.
So naturally, they can't function very well.
What do you make of that?
Well, I have been caught saying very similar thing until in one of my classes at the Omega
Institute, there were about five psychiatrists that were there. And I was talking along those
same lines. And I don't know if I got that from something I read from him.
I honestly don't remember where or how I started thinking like that. But I was saying that these
people could possibly be defined as thinking on very high levels. And they're just not fitting
into society because society isn't at that same spot. And they have not transformed. And
they're dealing with, if you're looking like right now, we're seeing a diminished capacity
for people to listen. Because you've got an entire generation, anybody coming up from 1995,
growing up in social media, they're spending eight hours plus a day in social media,
been a number of peer reviewed studies out. And they're reshaping, it's reshaping their mind,
and it's reshaping their ability and their habits to cognate. And they're very impatient if people
aren't answering things in sound bites or being very quick about it, get to the point kind of thing.
And if that's where we're moving toward, and then you have other people that are operating
outside, their mind is detached from the physical and they're constantly
into this matrix field, holographic matrix field, the collective unconsciousness.
They're thinking and working and there and they are detecting, coding and objectifying.
What they might be writing would be perceived by those within the physical world is just plain
gibberish, ridiculousness, that kind of thing. So his statement that people, when they evolved to
that point, and you still have in that bell curve that was there, you still have this very
thick element of the norm, the majority of the population. And these are on the tip of human
exploration, even though the norm doesn't understand that, he's correct. They would probably be
ostracized. I doubt very seriously, particularly in the trending of just how we are, I mean,
rise in narcissism, rise in the rise of the con, the con man. It just, it is the rise of greed,
the rise of more, more, more with less, less, less, faster, faster, faster.
I think if what he's saying, it was very foretelling of what we're kind of looking at right now.
Not to piss on everybody that thinks that way, but it's not doing us any favors and
there's no end in sight. And now the biggest trend I can find that I see, which is just
fucking frightening to me, is that everybody now wants to have AI do their work for them.
Right? Yeah. They want AI to do it. They want AI to write their course descriptions. They want
AI to write their letters and to do the other stuff for them. We now want AI in war planes, AI
in war vehicles. We want AI in tanks. We want AI driving warships. And we're putting less and less
people and trusting more and more and more to AI. I'm scared to death of some of that because,
I mean, I understand that it's here and we have to deal with it. We have to face it and understand
it's there. And those who were in those positions of authority need to make sure that there are
safeguards in place so that we don't make autonomous weapons entirely autonomous.
So when they're flying around, they decide what they're going to attack and kill.
And right now, that's where it's going and everybody that's doing it, the thing is driving
it for them because these are contract weapons developers that are doing this in support of
the military under large contracts. And so greed drives that process, right? It's not a cautionary
and competition. Exactly. It's not a cautionary process or procedure. They are going full tilt
to make that happen and make their smarter and more autonomous and allegedly more trustworthy.
It's really freaky. I mean, I'm a concern. I mean, it's kind of a shift in the gear,
so just allow me this. It's like the Chinese have something like 700 million CCTV cameras
in their country now. And they are tracking even gates. They can track the gate,
meaning how somebody walks. And they're memorized. This is all being memorized,
processed up by AI. It goes into the computer, the computer system. And you know what they called
the computer system that does, that runs all of this? Skynet. Stop it. I'm not kidding you. Skynet.
Can you believe it? It's actually called Skynet. It's called Skynet.
Like that's how the Chinese, they're not like a Chinese translation.
Well, I don't speak Chinese, but it's Skynet is what they call it.
Oh my God. I can't believe this. Yes. And they, you can't, even if you hide your face,
if you walked around in a gorilla mask, their system, if they had already recorded you,
and you then walk through a crowd with a gorilla mask on, it'll measure your gate.
It will identify you by how you walk, how your arms swing. That's what it'll do.
And it's the scariest thing. There you go. Skynet is a system of surveillance cameras and facial
recognition software in operation in 16 Chinese provinces. It is used by public security to
identify citizens and public and reduce crime. The cameras are linked to criminal and national
identity databases. Holy shit. All is not good. All is definitely not good.
No, this has been an underlying theme in like the last handful of podcasts that we've done.
And, you know, it's crazy that the majority of the money and the top minds in this country,
and I'm assuming most other highly developed countries, are going towards this kind of shit.
Like the quote unquote blue sky research where they're saying, here's a billion dollars, figure
out the most wacky sci-fi shit you can come up with is what that money goes to these programs,
to these people like DARPA or people developing AI and that 3D mapping they did in Afghanistan,
where Annie Jacobson has that book, First Platoon, where they went out and they literally like,
they did this like 3D mapping of all the towns in Afghanistan. So they had like a virtual
virtual reality walkthrough of every single place there. Awesome. I mean, as a special operations
officer in the Rangers, if somebody told me I had to go in and take out a target or go in and
affect some sort of a rescue mission, the idea instead of now, you know, trying to get the
engineers to build you some sort of a plywood mockup, which we're always dog shit. And then
you're out there trying to go through the walkthrough and you're kind of hoping that the
distances between the buildings are appropriate because in this mission like that,
if something is 100 feet away and you've been rehearsing it at 10 feet away,
kind of screws up your timing of things, right? So it gets people killed, maybe the hostage,
maybe the target, maybe Rangers or whomever else is there. So I like the idea that they're doing
that. But yeah, that's freaky, you know, that they can pull that up and then they can put,
you know, virtual reality goggles on and then do this. And some of the, you know, the technology
that we see in the consumer space is always like 20 years behind what's going on in the military
world and like DARPA type research. It goes, it's hard to give it a timeline. I like to say 20 years
or 10 years. It's just when you're talking about black projects, every black project probably has
10 variants of that black project. And that's 10 variants of different contractors that are
working on it. And you can, you'll, you know, there will be maybe out of those 10, 9 go to patent.
They get a patent and out of those nine, there could be six that are actually patents
that have the US government's name on it, the Navy or the Air Force or something else.
And then we'll, you won't see any of those black project patents. That goes in a totally
different category. It's not there for public consumption. But as they whittle away at these
different projects, all of them supposedly heading for the same objective, right, to create
something, what'll happen is they'll start to unplug some of them. And when they unplug them,
they go into what is called a gray project status. And that's when you start to see popular mechanics
and aviation weekly and, you know, what's next in space, you know, you start to see these magazines
start carrying artists, conceptions or pictures of a vehicle and they start talking about it.
It's because it's already been considered a dead, it's a dead project. That means that the others
are steadily improving and meeting their gates in development and researching and testing.
So they continue. And I assure you, you will never see those unless you see them
flying around or doing other things, which they are all the time. I mean, I just did a podcast
to, well, you know, with Sean, I did another one with. Yeah, shout out to Sean Hazel. Go check out
his podcast. We got to get him some, show him some love. There's probably of the UFO UAPs that
are being reported. If you look at where that all started and you look at the plotted number of
sightings, reported sightings, it corresponds exactly with the start of the space war,
not the space race. The space race was the space race to the moon between started by Eisenhower,
carried over by Kennedy, set down the 10 years in this decade, we're going to go to the moon.
That was the space race. Space wars started in 1945 by the then commander of chief of staff of the
army and a physicist who recognized that, you know, Clausowitz was right. The nature of war is
never going to change. Only the manner and the place in which wars fought will change. And the
next war was going to be fought in the dimension of the space. So here you have now an army aviator
four star general who is smart enough to say and declare in December of 1945 as we're ending the war
that the next war will be the next big war, the big dimension that we need to control and protect
ourselves in is the dimension, is space orbiting this planet. That is when we started. They were
not, I guess the Air Force was 1947 or 48. So two years later, they all dropped the army pinks
and greens and they start wearing Air Force blue. And the Air Force was the big budget carrier and
all of this. The army tried to compete. They dropped off, you know, about 10, 12 years later
because CIA was competing with the Air Force too, weren't they? Well, the CIA is was augmenting the
Air Force. They're two different tracks, but they're certainly both involved in the space war.
The CIA's, you know, their objective is intelligence collection. The Air Force
wants intelligence collection, but the Air Force is an action arm. They're there to blow the shit
out of stuff and kill the real or perceived enemies of our nation and to be capable of killing in
space other satellites. They knew that the Russians were going to parallel them. In fact,
if you look at the timeline of that, it is almost identical when there's just a slight edge in the
timeline where the Russians are a little bit slower and getting off the mark. But the space war
started right then. These space war ideas, is this something that we got from the Nazis?
I don't, I don't know. I've not ever in my research drawn a connection to that. I know that
there are a lot of things that the Nazis were working on that we had no idea they were working
on them and we had no idea they were as far along as they were. But how freaky is it to show up
in U.S. war planes, which are piston driven and have, you know, Nazi war planes, which are jet
propelled? Right. That had to be a really freaky experience. If you were a fighter pilot up in
the air seeing that and seeing the speed of it, you had probably had to think it had to be some
sort of an alien vehicle, right? They had no idea what that was. I am sure, look, everything is
cumulative and there's no single one thing that one country is doing that drives the United States
to do something. The Nazis were defeated. Technology was being made, we were being
made aware of technology, but there was also the great fear of the Soviet Union and the start now
of the Cold War and what China was going to do. And so the intelligence communities,
what the Nazis were working on, that's now a defeated army and we're just busy trying to help
rebuild that country. And yeah, we would look at that and there would be some lessons learned,
but would that be the cause for us doing that? No, I would dispute that. No. Was it something that
maybe caused us to think that, well, if they knew that and the Russians got half of the
of the intel from out of Berlin, then they probably know that as well. So they're probably
doing that. So we're doing it. And it wasn't because it came out of the Nazi occult or Nazi or
anything else. It was just a technological awareness that's there that lets us now know that
that's possible. And if it's possible, we have to assume they're going to do it,
meaning the Soviet. And we have to assume that China is going to do it. And therefore,
our job is to protect our country and we can't allow that kind of technology, which we're going
to develop it because we're going to take it. And we already probably had people exploring it,
but they remember we're under pain of death, pushing people through the development cycles to
make these things happen and not being willing at all to accept failure. So they pushed the envelope
and they got there faster as just a matter of survival because they knew that if they didn't
start developing these newer, more prolific weapons that it was going to be, they weren't
going to win. So I don't think it was the cause, but it certainly would have contributed to the
entire global perspective of how the technology that changes the way we fight wars is going to be
there. That's the role that that would have played, would have played as far as I'm concerned.
Right, right. I mean, the reason I ask is because I know that we got the idea of the psychic stuff
and the psychic arms race that started during the Cold War came from the Nazis, specifically,
I know Himmler was very much into this stuff. He was really into the occult and this esotericism
and all this stuff. And some of those ideas are what we took and we assumed that the Russians
got that too and that's what started these programs initially. Yeah, I understand that. And I think
that a good place for the listeners to start is if you really want to know, have a really good,
rounded read on Nazi ideology and the occult, I say get Nicholas Clark, Nicholas Goodrich Clark's
1985 book called The Occult Roots of Nazism. There are lots of books that are out there,
but that I have found is probably the most definitive work of breaking down Nazism and its
ties to the occult and why and what was actually done. And it had far less to do with a lot of
things we might think it had to do because one of the points made from researchers that look
very careful at Nazism and the occult is that the occult and Nazism and its ties to Nazi
ideology is greatly exaggerated and very poorly researched. And so Goodrich Clark's book,
having read probably eight or 10 books on the subject, I just found it to be the one that was
most well-grounded, most well-researched and really tied it back into it. You go to the Das Anhen B
and you start looking at that. And I know that there have been people that are drawing
conclusions about that thing, but it's essentially a collection of papers that are divided at this
juncture into four major categories. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso. Have
you ever tried fasting or intermittent fasting? If so, you may be aware of the sizzling energy and
mental clarity that you get if you do it long enough. The scientific data validating the health
benefits from fasting for weight loss is overwhelming, but what doesn't get talked about enough is the
longevity benefits you get from fasting. When you fast, your body turns on all its defense
mechanisms to help your body hunker down to fight off illness and disease, but the problem is it
takes three days of starving yourself to activate this process. Scientists like David Sinclair have
recently discovered molecules to help your body turn on this process without having to fast. If
you've ever heard this podcast before, you've heard me talk about Verso many times and I've had
world-renowned nutritional scientists like Dominic D'Agostino on the show who was the guy who
actually introduced me to Verso and I've been taking it every day for the last three years.
Cell being is always the first thing I take in the morning after dragging my carcass into the
kitchen, which wakes me up and gives me energy. I even use it for pre-workout and clean being
is the product I use every night before bed. After taking clean being for some time now,
I have actually noticed a huge improvement in not only my hormone regulation but my vision
has improved. I know it sounds insane but this stuff actually can improve your vision. My
lipid regulation has gotten better and another huge thing is all of a sudden I don't get affected
by all the pollen in the air. I don't have any of these reactions and clean being has actually
been scientifically proven to alleviate these things. Other clinical trials have proven healthier
skin, less inflammation, healthier hair, lipid regulation, enhanced cognitive function and
improved metabolism. On top of that, Verso always publishes third-party testing on each batch produced
to guarantee you're getting exactly what you pay for. So if you want to check out Verso and support
this podcast at the same time, go to ver.so forward slash Danny and use the coupon code
Danny at checkout for 15% off your first order. Again, it's ver.so forward slash d-a-n-n-y
and use the code Danny at checkout. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
And one is at the Atlas of German Folk of Folklore and it's exactly what that is. I mean,
I read through all of the letters and all of the translations of those letters
and it is pretty innocuous. It's them trying to fulfill what Hemler was really charged with doing
at Hitler's behest, which was capture our Aryan roots and where our language started and how it
evolved and our music and our art and our people and trace our blood back to its origins
and all those things. And that's what that Atlas of German Folklore was about was
putting dots on the map in Europe to trace that is what they were trying to do. And you go into
the Britain nationalism, which is the other category. It's just doing very much the same thing,
only it's tying it into other parts and nationalities in Europe. Now the last one,
the Norwegian project, the fourth one, I'm leaving the third for next. The fourth category,
the Norwegian project, was a collection of letters that had been translated. There are
still more of their being translated, but it was the Norwegians, as you know, were occupied by
the Nazis during World War II. And they hated the Nazis because of that. I mean, they hated them
and they wanted nothing to do with the German occupiers. And you had the head of this group
was there trying to get an organization so that they could get Norwegian scientists to work with
German scientists on the issues of culture and language. And they wanted to create like a blended
scientific effort to do things there. And the Norwegians were like, yeah, go fuck yourself
because you're blowing up all of our archaeological sites and then you won't let us be there.
The Nazis wanted to look like them. Yeah. Yeah. And they weren't having it. So it was just a series
of letters of bitching and moaning and going back and forth and reporting to Himmler and,
you know, to the director of the on her base, you know, that, oh, this didn't work. And they're not
playing. And then, you know, quotes from the Norwegians that they didn't say, go fuck yourself.
But that's what they meant. They were like, you're not doing, we're not doing that with you.
Right. We're not doing it with you now. And we're not going to deal with you after the war.
You know, we don't like you essentially. And they didn't, they had no intention
of coming together with them. But then there is a category which people might be referencing.
And that is called the dowsing project. So the dowsing project is precisely
what it sounds like. It was dowsers. It was dowsing rods. It was pendulum work.
And there was also a subcategory in there that dealt with the dealt with astrology.
And it was stated in a number of the letters there that the intention was to develop dowsing
as a technique to find oil and gas and mineral deposits. And then there are other even much more
loosely based intentions for the use of dowsers and dowsing rods and pendulum work
for military and economic projects. Now, all of that was being discussed. But here's the funny thing
is that the funny thing is that this Wolfram Sievers, who was the managing director,
and his accomplice, which was this Walter Wust, who was the curator of the Anhabit,
meaning collecting objects and items and anything. It had anything to do with what
this project was working on. These guys spent the vast majority of their time
trying to deal with the security police and the Minister of Public Enlightenment
and propaganda because they were running around trying to find pockets of people
that were working with the occult and arrest them because they did not want that.
Himmler was tied into that, and Hitler may have had some tie into that. But those two agencies,
the security police and the SD and this Bureau for Public Enlightenment and propaganda, were
arresting dowsers, confiscating their dowsing rods and all their materials and everything
that was written, everything in their studies, all of it. And so that whole section not only
exposes the work that was being done by different kinds of departments and groups that were working
with the Anhabit or not, but they were trying to collect, they were trying to build manuals,
they were trying to build training programs, they were trying to perfect the use of training
dowsers and then the use of training of dowsing rods. And these other agencies were just literally
beating the shit out of them and shutting down their efforts and confiscating their stuff.
I can't imagine the disconnect that was going on there because this is in 43 and the war is not
going well. Two fronts, they're getting their ass kicked everywhere. And now a lot of the things
that were part of the Nazi ideology that are being, Hitler was no longer really taking a big front
seat and pressing some of these things, he passed that off to Himmler like he passed a lot of things
off to the rest of his henchmen and Himmler was trying to do this. Himmler was still deep with
the SS into the occult, but the idea that the occult was going to be spread through the entire
Nazi program never flew and was never part of what they were doing. That was SS and everybody else
was trying to shut them down and get them. But these parts of this, these subcategories of this,
that they went through all the dowsing literature after it had been confiscated,
they had to go through the dowsing literature. What does dowsing mean again? Dowsing is the use of
metal rods. Thank you for asking us. The use of metal rods and a dowser holds the rods and they
typically hold them like this. There are other techniques and the rods are L-shaped. So you
have the little rod handle, piece of wire, let's just say piece of wire and it comes up and it goes
out and every dowser has their own theories about what metal works best for them. Some use brass,
some want aluminum, some want steel, some want, you know, bent coat hangers will work, right?
Any kind of material will work. It's like the preference of the dowser. But I don't know what
the Nazis were doing if they had standardized this or not. I would suggest they probably were trying
to do it. But the dowser can hold these rods and they can, if their intention is dowsing for water,
if they move over an underground source of water, the rods which are pointing straight ahead
will move and cross. And that is the point where the water is located there. Let's talk about how
that works. There are lots of theories, but the theory that has always worked best for me is one
of physiology. When they're holding these rods and their intention is to find the water source,
there could be an electromagnetic at play here. It could be. But there is also the idea that the
subcontainer is connective tissue in our bodies just under the skin that it responds to what
the head is perceiving, what the mind is detecting and decoding. And it is now being objectified
in the dowsing rod. The movements are imperceptible to the person seeing it. But the subcutaneous
connective tissue in its micro movements moves, pushes tissue and skin. Not, you couldn't see it
happen, but the metal amplifies it. Do you understand? It serves as an amplification process
that amplifies these micro movements in the subcutaneous connective tissue that then pulls the
dowsing rod together. It's not a magic thing. It's not some invisible energy doing it unless
the electromagnetics are playing a bigger role than we currently understand that they might.
There's probably parts of both. It's the same thing with a pendulum. When you see people taking
a pendulum and spinning around and doing something, it's just complete bullshit.
Somebody asked me to speak at a dowsing conference once and I went, oh my god,
and I'm at this dowsing conference and I'm asked to stand up and deliver remarks to a
kind of a lecture hall at a college of dowsers. And I looked out in the audience and half of the
audience, while I was talking, we're all standing there with pendulums, like holding them up,
like holding them like this and spinning them around. So their idea is if it's spinning one way
I'm telling the truth and if it's spinning a different way or however it's doing that,
I'm not telling the truth. And I was just like, I got about 15 minutes into this and I just stopped
and said, put that shit away. You are distracting. So I'm not going to tell you what I think about
what you're doing, but just put it away and listen to the lecture and then you can go dows
whatever you want to dows afterwards. And if you think it works for you or it doesn't work for you,
that's the improper use of it. It's a complete lack of understanding of what it does.
It's a weight on the end of a string. It serves as an amplification. If you stabilize your hands
and hold that and start and it's perfectly still, and then you start thinking to yourself with your
hands stabilized, even up against your forehead, like this is a tripod and it's down there. And
if you start thinking, spend to the right, spend to the right, spend to the right,
that causes a micro movement. It causes fluids within the body, like third space fluids. It causes
every capillaries, again, the connective tissue, it causes it all to start to react to our thoughts.
Our thoughts can are manifest in our physiology and our physiology, our physiology
can cause manifestations in our thoughts, right? So that micro movement,
and I do this when I teach this to remote viewing students in advanced techniques,
and they're all amazed that they don't have to, it's not this and they'll have a target,
it's a pendulum target, north, south, east, west, right, circle, reverse, another circle, make it
stand still, and they can do that with perfectly still hands holding just the string between
their fingers. And they're not blowing it around, they understand the exercise. It is the micro
movements of fluids, capillary fluid, blood flow of everything in the body that's manifest through
the mind. That's pretty incredible. Doesn't it make much more sense to you than the idea that
you're swinging a piece of metal around you into the string and that's telling you truth or lie?
I mean, it's just preposterous to me that that goes on, but hey, it's accepted within that community
as the way to do it, which is why I never went back ever again. So I learned it actually at the
Greater New England Academy of Hypnosis because when I was in there, got into the remote viewing
unit, I told you that they were lacking sorely in everything, there were no programs of instruction,
no manuals. When you first got there? When I first got there. And I know now that the
former colleague tells everybody that he wrote a manual, but when I was on a podcast recently with
Lynn Buchanan, who was there as long as this other person was, Lynn Buchanan said it was not
a manual and it was never a manual. It was a handout given to VIPs when they came into the
unit so they could get some idea of what it is we were doing there. It goes, now Dave's correct,
there was never a manual ever. There was no never a manual, no program and instruction,
no training outline, nada, just a little VIP handout, which I never saw. And so
it's just so important to understand that where you were going with that. And so we needed,
and we're using this, these were tools we were using is enhancing tools here. These are called
external tools to a remote viewer applying and working in an advanced technique. There are
things you can do with a pendulum. There are things you can do with map sensing and the different
techniques of map sensing and all those, you have a visual, you have a, you have a tactile
form of sensing and you have a tool form of sensing. And so all of those can be applied.
And when you start plugging those into a remote viewing session, it's called a compound session.
It's a compounded combat compound target session because now you're putting not just
the remote viewing protocols to task, but you're also interjecting these other external
tools and methods to track something over time or to pin some, like pinpoint something in space,
like 3D below the ground on the surface or above the ground.
There are all kinds of things you can do with it. So it really adds to it.
So getting back to the space wars, you said that there was a physicist who wrote some
stuff about this or started talking about this, putting it in place in 1945. And are we talking
about like putting nuclear weapons in space? Is that? No, it was certainly discussed. Yeah,
absolutely. I mean, when the space wars began, they very, once the Air Force was established,
and again, they became the principal budget holders for all of this,
because it, in somewhere in 48 or 49, there was, they stood before Congress
and presented their budget for the space war program. And in that budget, they said that they
wanted money to research space platforms. They wanted money to research space weapons.
They wanted research money to work on space vehicles. All of those things were put into
that budget. That budget was kind of rolled up as something that, as NASA, when NASA came into
existence, they got their initial money. But as NASA was rolled into the program,
in my opinion, as a diversion, I mean, both programs had their agendas, and there was
certainly sharing of knowledge and technology. But they were not, they were independently
operated, and one had the objective of preparing for war. The other had the objective of smokescreen
that this is an effort for all humanity, right? We're all going to go to the moon,
and we hope our brother, Cosmonauts, can get there as well. We just want to get there before you.
When you say the NASA part was a smokescreen, do you think that was deliberate?
Oh, absolutely. Yeah.
Or do you think that they actually believed that? They didn't know what the left hand was doing?
I believe that they knew that if they could get the American public to focus on the space
race and not the space war, far less questions would be asked. And again, as I said to you,
as that space war began, you know, if we take, if whenever we take a break here,
I'll pull up, I'll pull up an actual animation that will show you that from 1945, how the number
of reported sightings of UFOs and encounters and blah, blah, how that increased exponentially
starting in 1945. As the space war thickened, because we, look, we've been in 1968 out at
Edwards Air Force Base, we were testing lifting body aircraft, lifting body aircraft,
being aircraft with no wings. In 1968. Are you talking about like the things that we got from
the Horton Brothers, the Horton Brothers developed that thing that looked like a flying saucer with
no wings? On the top left. Oh, wait. That's, that's too new. Yeah, you're looking at some of those
are probably some of those aircraft, but these were. Look at that. It's beautiful. It's kind of
like that Indiana Jones movie. Yeah. Oh, wow. Oh, that's, that's, that's, that is a lifting body,
but that's, that's not, see the fact you've got an artist concept of that. That's a, that's a great
project. So that's incredible looking dude. I've never seen anything like this before. Oh,
wait here. I'll show you. Wow. Look at that. Looks like a space shuttle, like a futuristic space
shuttle. It, it's called Dream Chaser and it is, it's, they've still got it, but it's gone to gray
now, which means it, it's not a black project. That means it's declassified or what? Yeah. Okay.
Okay. So, but look at it. It, it has a re-entry. It has a re-entry speed of 15,000 miles per hour.
Mach 20. Wow. Now, if you are a pilot who is trained to recognize enemy aircraft and you are not
trained to recognize secret aircraft, whether gray or in a black project, and you see that coming
down out of the sky at Mach 20 when you're flying Mach 3.5 and you can't see wings and you cannot see
a power plant in that. You don't get a thermal image. What do you to think? Hmm. So, well,
there's an example of this. You see, you remember that you see this picture right here? Yeah.
Look at the profile of that picture. Okay. Okay. It looks like, what does that look like? It just
looks like a, it looks like that. Yeah, it does look from the ass end. That's what that looks like.
Okay. That picture was taken by a back-seater flying in that jet. Okay. He took it with an iPhone.
An F-15. Took it with an iPhone and then what does the UFO community do? Hmm. The label, that picture
is everywhere. You can see the back of the pilot's seat. You can see the curvature of the canopy and
there's that picture of that thing out there. And people in the UFO UAP community have taken that
picture and labeled it a leaked photo. It was not leaked. It drives me fucking nuts that everybody
has to say that. It's not leaked. It was on the guy's iPhone. He was sending it around to people
going, check this out. You know, does anybody recognize this or know what this is? And the next
thing, I don't know because I haven't been able to track it back to the source, but the other
thing that it's added into the commentary from UFO, in the UFO UAP community says it appeared
standing still in the air. That it was standing still. Well, let me explain that to you. Okay.
Okay. Dream chaser. There is an actual phenomenon that takes place that is part of the FAA manuals.
It's because they alert pilots and train pilots. It's called spatial disorientation in flight.
Autoconetic illusion. And the reason that that autoconetic illusion occurs is because there is
no static reference point. You have to have a static reference point within your visual field
to be able to determine how fast something is moving or what your relative speed is in relation
to that object in front of you. Pilots can have this spatial disorientation in flight.
Most of the time, it's very commonly experienced when you're trying to land at night
in a darkened area, like let's say the desert, and you have a military airfield and what's
lit up are the landing lights. And they might be, let's say they're infrared because you're
coming in on goggles, on night vision goggles. The spatial disorientation that happens, this
kinetic illusion, autoconetic illusion is your mind because it doesn't have any static reference
points. It has no terrain features, no buildings. It just sees the lights in front of it and the
craft is coming. The illusion part of it is pilots think that the runway is pushing out in front
of them. Their mind is saying the runway is running ahead of me. Now, that only stops when the pilot
pays attention to all of his instruments, his airspeed indicator, attitude, where he is,
glide slope indicator, everything. When he starts doing that and he stops trying to look out there,
he can get himself out of that autoconetic illusion and get to the place where he can
land the aircraft. It's a common thing. It's taught by the U.S. Air Force to watch out for it,
the FAA, make sure that private pilots, commercial pilots, they all understand it.
So in this particular scenario, this aircraft is flying at, let's say Mach 4 out in front of it
and it's flying up at God. I don't know what their altitude was when the picture was taken,
but I can tell you they had to be somewhere between 20 and 30,000 feet, which means,
and it was a perfectly clear day. There were no clouds. So they have no static reference.
The only way that pilot actually knows what his relative speed is, is looking at his indicated
airspeed. That's how he knows how fast he's going. He doesn't. It's not like you can look out the
window and watch telephone poles go by or something else. So all of a sudden now, something at 15,000
miles per hour is doing a re-entry heading for Edwards Air Force Base and they don't
like to bring these down in the daylight, but they do bring them down in the daylight. Usually,
if there's an issue and when they bring them down, they all ask to get them on the ground
so that people don't see them very much. But this pilot, his back-seater snaps a picture of it
and the comment made that it looked like it was standing in air. That is that auto-kinetic illusion.
It looked like it was standing in air because it's going 15,000 miles per hour and you're
going Mach 4. So what you're seeing is it's actually getting smaller, but it is imperceptible to you
that it's getting away from you because you have no static reference. It is an absolute
well-known phenomenon, but nobody explains something like that. So you look at the profile
on that plane and I'm not saying it's the Dream Chaser because the Dream Chaser is a great project
now. But I told you that for every Black project, there's 10 variants and of those 10 variants,
anytime something doesn't measure up to where they want it to be or if they feel that it's
accomplished what they want it to accomplish with it, they've learned all they can learn,
it gets passed into the Gray project. And when it goes into Gray project, they often
get picked up for commercial uses and get sold, but they're not going to be
adopted by the military for that anymore. I think a great example of the spatial
orientation that a lot of people might be familiar with is there, I don't know if you've
seen it before, but there was a video that was released by the Pentagon called the Go Fast video
or the Gimbal video, where there's a video of this little orb that's flying against the ocean
as a backdrop. And everyone's like, oh look at this thing, this thing is going like 20,000 miles per
hour, ungodly speeds, there's no propulsion, you can see no exhaust coming out of the back,
but what they don't realize is that thing is flying in one direction and the Gimbal camera on the
other plane is flying in the opposite direction, filming down with the ocean as a backdrop. So
there's motion parallax making that thing, this thing right here, making it look like it's going
four times faster or something than it really is. And they had trouble walking on it. And
that could be a bird, who knows, but when you're flying in the opposite direction in a jet or a
plane with the ocean as a backdrop, depending on how far away that thing is from the water,
it's going to look like it's going at ungodly speed. There's a YouTube video that went viral of
some guy with his phone camera in a passenger seat, driving this direction away from the
commercial airport. And he's got that camera up in the air and you'll see a telephone pole go by.
And then all you see are the wires, which give you no static reference point. And on approach,
on final approach, there's a huge airliner coming in. And as he's holding the camera up and that
telephone pole goes by, the plane appears to be static in the air. And then a telephone pole
go by and you'll get a quick glimpse of reference that it's actually going that way. And then the
wires come back, no static reference again. So it is totally confusing to the mind, the auto-kinetic
illusion, and you're just like, what the hell? And so people were looking at it going like,
it looks like it's standing still and then the telephone pole goes by. Right, right. So yeah.
That's what that is. And what is this one? Possible sightings of a Lockheed Martin 791
hybrid AS designed and built with DARPA. Yeah, we are building derogables now that exceed anyone's
imagination or expectation. These are, sometimes they're, they used to be like rigid frame with
external bodies on them, right? Canvas over that, like the Hindenburg. But now they're doing that,
but there are other models that are rigid body. So they're building out. Yeah, well,
if you want to call them that, right. And they are, they are rigid body and they have stiffening
capabilities built into the outer skin of the aircraft. And they have new synthetic
materials, composites that are being built that create the skin on these things where they are
not collapsible. As part of the space war effort, they are building balloons. I mean, they are
building these things that are far greater than these. I mean, here's some more of these you can
see that too. If it were looked at in the same way would have looked like that. If you were looking
at it in the same, see, there's the actual backseat or photo. See how far out that thing is? It's
right there. It's right there. That's it. That's why. Oh, shit. Golly. That's how far out there it
is. And everybody, that's the picture. I blew it up for the purposes of showing you what it looks
like. But look at the contour of the thing. Right. It looks almost just like it. Yeah, it could.
It could. Yes. And it looks just like the dream chaser. And it also looks like about five other
these aircraft that are in development or have been cast off to gray. You know, we shot down.
This was one. Oh, God. Is this the Phoenix lights? Yeah. So here's what happens, you know, in 13 March
1997, this large in 1997, this large V shaped craft V shaped craft with five spherical lights,
a light in the nose and two down each side of it on the under courage. It's observed between 1930 hours
and 22 30 hours. It's described described by witnesses as stationary or slow moving.
And it is traveling across a 300 mile of space of, you know, from where it was first cited 300
miles from Nevada across the state line to Phoenix and then on to Tucson, Arizona. And thousands
of people observed this craft, thousands of them, hundreds of reports made to law enforcement
agencies and media outlets. Okay. The other is the observers, they are describing this craft as
a huge 60 degree carpenter square with five spherical lights. Well, a carpenter square is 90
degrees. So that already tells you this is a modification for some sort of a purpose.
This craft is so low that some of the observers ran up the high ground in its path.
And we're hitting it with rocks and tennis balls as it went past people reported doing this.
Yes. They were hitting the bottom of the craft because they were shooting like tennis ball
cannons up about it. What? Now, if you really thought that that was an alien spacecraft, you've
got a pair of Cajones on you to go out with a tennis ball cannon and start shooting tennis
balls at the aliens as they're flying past you. But that on the right is what the craft looked
like. Okay. Explanations given by the military. And this is important. Operation Snowbird at
David Monthan Air Force Base. Training of Air National Guard pilots A-10. They were the A-10
Warthogs, right? The Thunderbolt 2 aircraft. And this was confirmed by the Maryland Air
National Guard. There was a pilot, Lieutenant Colonel speaking, you know, is part of this
explanation given by the media. The static lights were due to the aircraft not having to use
anti-collision lights according to a spokesman for the FAA. Now, the FAA says to the press,
the public, that, yeah, there were no anti-collision lights on this aircraft because the military
does not have to turn anti-collision lights on
all the time. But wrong answer. They cannot fly in civilian airspace without anti-collision
lights on. They can fly on military reservations without anti-collision lights. Anti-collision
lights are the blinking red, right? And white or green lights you see. That tells you whether
the aircraft, when you look at it, tells you whether the aircraft is coming or going away from
you. It allows you to see it, where it is in spatial orientation when you're flying in and
around it. Steve, pull up a photo of the Phoenix lights. Just type in Phoenix lights. It'll show
you, like, what the pictures and videos people took from the ground. Yeah, look how big that
shit is. Yeah, well, I'm going to get to that. So they also just, they said it was these,
they were illumination flares that had been dropped from the AC, from the A-10 Warthogs.
What was the media's official explanation for this? They didn't have one. They didn't have one. They
passed on these points that I just showed you. Then the governor came and did some sort of public
talk wearing like an alien outfit. He absolutely did. And he, they basically, the community just
burned him down for it because he made light of it and you had thousands of people in the area
that had witnessed it and they did not appreciate him. He first started off being very supportive,
but somebody told him, you know, shut your mouth and, you know, go sit down and make a joke. And so
he did, he did what they told him to do and it really cost him. People were very, very angry
about him in doing this. Did he ever say who told him to change his mind on it? No. No. Not that I
am aware of. He did apologize. I remember that much like many years later. Many years later. So
here's what this thing is. It is an aerospace orbital airship. They began building and testing
these in 1964 as part of the space war, not the space race. They are building these balloons to be
capable of achieving hypersonic speeds over Mach three. I know because your head up to heights of
400,000 feet. Why are they going to do that? These are surface to orbit transport vehicles.
They are building space. They are building balloons that will serve as, they aren't even really
balloons. They have fabric that's self-sealing. They don't leak gas. So they never get to the point
where, you know, where the gas diminishes and they fall out of the sky. You put up a weather balloon
which is filled with helium and it will go up and the helium eventually finds its way through
the pores of the rubber because lack of pressure. The helium expands the balloon and the balloon
either completely bursts and falls back to earth or it just starts to leak. Just like when you
have a helium balloon that you bought at the fair and you bring it home, it will not stay afloat
forever. It gradually weeps that gas lighter than air through the material of the balloon.
So they had to build something that didn't do that and there are about three different aerospace
contractors that are doing this. JP Aerospace is one. There's another one in Las Vegas.
There's another one somewhere else and you have McDonnell Douglas. You have all at North
or Gromit. You have all the big contractors working on this stuff. They are building these things out
of materials that are exotic, that don't leak, that if they get punctured in some way, like from
a meteor, they self-seal. You would think with the number of meteors that drop on the earth,
which is essentially even a little micrometeors. Micrometeors, it's the equivalent of a giant
ten-wheel dump truck filled with like nine tons of them. That's how much hits the earth every day.
How do you know this? How did you find this stuff?
There are patents in the clear that you can see these and I know that the president of JP Aerospace
in response to the Phoenix lights would not own up to it being his craft or somebody else's craft,
but he said, I recognize the technology and that was the clue to go look further for this.
Who did he say that to? He said it to an interview given to the media or to a documentarian.
They asked him about it and he said, yeah, I remember and I remember it very well.
He goes, I recognize the technology. Do you remember the documentary you saw this on?
No. I'll send you a note on it. Okay. Okay. That's what this is. This is what they're calling,
you know, they're calling this the ground to space vehicle. It can go 400,000 feet.
And where did you get these illustrations? These illustrations are from gray projects,
clearly, right? These are not illustrations of active projects. These are illustrations where
they start off with what we're going to do or what we're going to work toward.
Okay. You know, this goes all into the idea of the dimension of space being a war zone.
They want to put these very quick, quickly built things that can be easily crafted and
they hover in low earth orbit or further out. They can be autonomous. They can store supplies
in them. They can be a functioning space base and they're massive. They're absolutely massive.
Look, it's 175 feet long. And that's just this one. It was called the trans atmospheric ascender.
And there's a A26, 36, an ascender 90 and a one called the ascender 175.
And you found this in a patent? Well, I think the patent is in the slide deck here.
Okay. Yes, that was the start. There are two clues. One was JP Aerospace's president saying,
and these are JP Aerospace's craft, the ascender series. Oh, wow.
And the idea is to pick up materials, pick up parts, weapons, ammunition, supplies, people,
whatever they need. So people can be inside this? Absolutely. I'll show you. This is the space station,
solar powered, constructed. And you can see the one on the left and right. These are,
you can see the ascender comes up, drops off cargo, picks up passengers, picks up
something waste or whatever it needs. And it goes back down again. And they plan to put these
everywhere because if you're going to control the dimensional space with static stations,
nobody's going to build another mirror up there. That's not going to happen.
Too expensive, takes too long. They can turn these things out by the dozens, right,
and put them up there. And they are massive. That center core in the middle of the one on
the top right, the red, where you see the red. Right. That's as big as a basketball stadium.
Jesus. And you have the patents for this in the slides.
Yeah, they're, look at down at the bottom right photo. You see the man standing next to it?
Yeah, that's enormous. Give you a little bit of scale, right? Okay. And that's just a, this is one
that is clearly not even classified yet. It's a great project. That's how somebody gets a picture
and tosses it out there. But what, what flew over Phoenix that night was our creation. And they
believe that it probably got off of its tether. You know, they fly him. They don't fly by wire.
They fly up, fly him through radio control to test them. And it had nobody on board,
but it got off the reservation quite literally, came across the Nevada state line coming from
area 51, drifted all the way to Phoenix and then Tucson. And everybody was like, holy shit,
we got to cover this because we don't want people to know that this is what we're doing.
But to everybody that wanted to see it as a UFO, which I guess technically it is,
but it's not otherworldly. I think if you were to statistically look at
and compare the number of sightings with what is probably actually us, holy shit,
it's probably about, I was on a show where two guys were Intel guys saying that they thought it
was about 94% of what's observed is actually by their products out of the space war. And I said,
I think that's a very conservative underestimate of that. I think it's probably closer to 1998.
I'm going to drive that one. Yeah, click on that. Yeah. We talked giant view shaped airships space
in the Phoenix Lice with JPL. Yeah. Click on that. Oh, this is an interview with the founder of JPL.
There you go. Oh, there we go. Look, there's the same images you had.
Yeah. I mean, even the CG render. Wow.
Yeah. No, I tend to think the same thing. I really confirmed this whole thing for me,
that this was our stuff, when our media started talking about it and saying that we don't know
what it is. Yeah. And when politicians started sitting down into hearings and saying, trust me,
I'm on your side. I'll make sure we get this stuff. You're not going to get anything.
People just whip themselves up into a frenzy about that. They actually think that these things are
going to be somehow exposed because they're demanding them. They have no idea what they're
asking. It's never going to happen. Never going to happen. Have you ever seen the documentary
called Mirage Men? No. It's an incredible documentary. I think one of the best UFO
documentaries I've ever seen. And I just watched it recently. But I came out a while, a number of
years ago. And it was, I think I told you about it over the phone. It was about this guy. He was a
a ufologist named Paul Benowitz. And he lived in Arizona or Nevada. And there were these
unidentified flying objects flying over the mountain across the street from his house. And
he would be constantly filming them and sharing them with the UFO community. The guys on the base
that was right next to his house, they got wind of this footage that he was taking.
And they sent a counterintelligence officer to go take a pay him a visit at his house to see
what he knew. See if he had any like legitimate information on what they were testing. And
he saw the videos and he talked to Paul Benowitz and Paul Benowitz thought these were aliens.
They were UFOs. And this guy named Richard Doty, who was the counterintelligence guy for
the Air Force. He says, you know what? I think you're right. I think these must be UFOs. We
need to get to the bottom of this. And started just pushing him in that direction. And basically,
the idea was to use Paul as a conduit of disinformation into the whole UFO community to
sort of poison the well, if you will. And they knew that there were Soviet spies embedded in
the UFO community that were trying to get information on some of these UFOs. And they wanted
to basically like so disinformation within them and confuse if there were spies embedded in the
UFO community, confuse them, confuse everybody and just so disinformation throughout that whole
thing. And they fucking drove this guy crazy. This guy ended up in a mental hospital and ended
up dying there. So, you know, the links that the military is willing to go to confuse the public
and what they've been, you know, evidence that they've been doing this since the 60s,
putting in so much time and effort and resources into confusing people, like think about that and
now think about what they could possibly be doing now.
Precisely. Yeah, they're not doing it to be nefarious characters. They're doing it because
the public has, first of all, no need to know and absolutely no right to know.
There is a, you know, we are in a very dangerous condition on this planet. And if you think that
that's not so, then you're ignorant or you're just Polly Anish and have no idea what's actually
possible out there. There are, I mean, if you think that Putin has our best interests in mind,
you're a fool. And if you think the Chinese don't want to get up there and if they ever thought
that they could dominate us in some way, if you think that what they really care about is living
in peace and harmony within their own, then you don't understand the geopolitical situation and
what happens. War is always happening. It's an extension of politics, as Klausowitz said.
So we have to let the people that we pay, you know, to pick up the weapons and do the dirty
work of the Republic, we have to let them defend us. We have to let them research for us. We have
to let them develop. And we don't have rights to demand to be given full briefings on this stuff,
because it doesn't stop with us. That means that we are now tipping our hand in this spy versus
spy, army versus army, you know, air force against air force, country against country.
And it's a very real war and a very real fight. They want what we have in terms of technology.
In some cases, we might want to know what they have, but none of them tell their public what they
have. And we will never start doing that. It's not going to happen ever. So if you think that somebody
is going to walk out of the shadows from some special access program and talk to you about
anything about this space war and these craft, or even if they did have a crashed alien spacecraft,
they would never expose that. Those special access programs exist as they exist. They are
typically headed by civilians, because the military is not a good candidate for it,
because why? The military is transient. You know, you come in as a colonel, you're going to command
maybe for two years or three years, and they're going to pull you out, change command, new guy
comes in. You're going to let you walk out of that organization, read on to and have seen everything
that's there. No, that's not how they do it. It's also why they would never brief the president.
I don't care why any president that tells you that he's going to go pull the lid off of this,
which has pretty much been every president, right? Oh, yeah, I'll get the bottom of that.
Yeah, sure you will, Mr. President. They see that guy as same thing, transient. You may be
here for four years, so go fuck you. We're not telling you anything. Right. And even if he
throws this, you know, starts pounding on the table, they'll just go right back,
and they will come right back and give him the exact same briefing that they gave him,
you know, four days ago, they will change nothing for him. And he has no legal precedent
available to him to force them to do that, because it's in the interest of national security.
And that does not entitle him to know everything. That's how they look at it.
And, you know, those little curmudgeons that run those programs, those special access programs,
they guard them, you know, like their mother's underwear, they are not given that stuff up
to anybody. So, and you can't make them. And it's like, let's take a look at another craft here.
Yeah. And this is a Navy craft. The one on the right is an actual photo of the craft.
This craft now... Wait, the one on the right is an actual photo?
The one on the right is an actual photo. This craft, its wings fold and it is launched from
a missile tube in a nuclear submarine. It is fired out of the missile tube with an air charge
its missiles prepare to ignite and it gets up out of the water, its wings spring open,
its engine fires and it flies. It is unmanned. It flies at supersonic speed, not hypersonic.
It is a reconnaissance aircraft. But if they're admitting it's a reconnaissance aircraft, trust
me, they are weaponizing it as well. They're never going to put something up just, you know,
as a sensory. It'll be an offensive jammer or it'll do something else and if it can fly like
that, they'll bring it up and they will let it kill something one of these days. The cormorant.
The idea is that this thing will go do its job. It comes back. It dives just like a cormorant,
the bird, right? It folds its wings in, it hits the water and they're saying that right now,
it has to be intercept a cable and it's towed back into the missile compartment.
I have it on for good authority that it's way past that point now. It can come back.
It can fold its wings. It can hit the water. It finds the sub based on a homing beacon
and it goes to the submarine, folds itself up and goes back into the missile tube.
They even got the Lockheed logo right on the side. Yeah. Wow. See, that would be the
big test piece of it, right? I'll general dynamics too. Yeah, oh yeah. That's what I said. Anytime
you're looking at a black project, there will be every major aircraft development contracting.
They all have their classified branches. They build, you know, luxury liners for commercial
travel and they also have their classified branch that builds weapons, space vehicles,
and classified aircraft like this. It's an ongoing, constant process of improving,
redefining the mission, developing the aircraft, building the aircraft, testing the aircraft,
dropping the ones off that they're no longer interested in and continuing with the black
projects for the ones that they do want. What is this right here? What is this diagram you have
right here? This is, I did this to show people where and when the space race began, where NASA
and the Soviet Union got into the game and where China got into the game. So I go from
December 1945 when Chief of Staff of the Army General Henry Arnold and the physicist Dr.
Threador von Kamen. Yeah, he was German. They formed this U.S. Air Force scientific advisory
board. It was the U.S. Air Corps at that time, right? And they put into play a 50-year strategic
vision for space war and they did it December 1945. They established when it became the Air Force and
actually Air Force in 54. That's when they put the Space Division, the Western Development Division
58, U.S. Air Force Aeronautics Development Program was submitted to the Defense Department.
That's where they asked for the money to develop space weapons, space vehicles,
space stations and a bunch of other stuff. You can see right in there how that was,
how this is all crafted and where it started and what was happening in this particular area.
Wow. So in 59-68 this research branch gets $9 billion in funds that was supposed to go,
it was being shown as it was going to NASA to support the space race. But the $7 billion
of the $9 billion went to the space war effort. $7 billion of the $9 billion went there.
Wow. Yeah. And in 61, when President John F. Kennedy asks for that $9 billion,
the title of his remarks to Congress was Urgent National Needs. Now, you think he's standing
up and talking to him about NASA and titling it Urgent National Needs, he was talking in code to
them about the space war effort that was ongoing. And oh yeah, by the way, NASA, we started that in
58, President Eisenhower started it, but he really kicked it in the ass in 61, Kennedy did.
But then you look down on the USSR line and they started in 57 and when they started in 57,
that was when they put Sputnik up in orbit in 57 for October. And everybody in America was stunned
that this had happened. But our Air Force knew it was happening. They had intelligence that let
them know that was going to happen. And as soon as that went up, part of the budget was dedicated
to sat killers. So the development of sat killer weapons, satellites that kill satellites,
ground based or aircraft launch, sat killer missiles that could be flown up to the edge
of the atmosphere and launched by an aviar and Air Force warplane. And that sat killer would then
exit the atmosphere, seek out its target and bring it down. Are you familiar with the recent
story? I think it was a couple of years ago, less than 10 years ago, where Kim Jong-un launched a
satellite into space and we had reconnaissance or we had some sort of intelligence on it. And
our military thought that he had nukes on board of the satellite. And he was saying, no, no, no,
there's no weapons on the satellite. This is just, this purpose of the satellite is to relay
patriotic music to our citizens. Sure. Yeah. And yeah, he denied that. But I think that this,
the problem with the satellite is it orbits the earth like every 90 minutes or something like that
and it flies directly over the US like multiple times a day. And they think that some of these
satellites that are hovering around contain nukes on, have nukes on board. I'm sure they do.
I mean, especially, I don't know how Korea, if Korea has the technology to miniaturize
and do that, but they're certainly not without the intellect to do it. They may lack the budget
to do it, but China may be funding them. I don't think the Russians are, but I think China would
be funding them. And if you get enough of the budget, they're not stupid. They know how to do
shit. They just need money to do it with. And I'm sure that those would be there. Now,
I know this, that if we thought it was a threat, we would have already taken it down.
We took down a Soviet satellite in 1968.
Did it have weapons on it? No, it just was a Soviet satellite that was in the wrong place,
where we didn't want it to be. And we had a US Navy pilot that flew the first
sat killer missile up from the, under the bottom of his warplane and took it to the place
where they told him to release it right at the edge of space. And he did. And they killed that
satellite. And then they turned around and said, well, it was, it wasn't a Soviet satellite. It
was actually just an old defunct satellite that belonged to us. It was not. It was a Soviet satellite
that was, that was just like this satellite you just mentioned. It was going in the wrong place.
And diplomatically, we could not get them to move it. And this is why the space war
has always been so critical, because whoever gets the most there, the most technology there,
and the most capability to defend their position from space, right, and react to enemy threats,
whatever those might be, that's the one that's going to have the safest, the safest position
it's considered. We don't want them to put weapons in a geosynchronous orbit over our planet. And we
will, over our country, and we won't let them do that. Well, that's the problem with deterrence,
right? If we're doing it, and we're spending all this money creating all these crazy
vehicles that look like spaceships and have nukes in space, they have to do the same thing,
right? That's the whole idea behind deterrence. And then if we keep doing it, they're going to
keep doing it. And before you know it, this whole, the whole globe is going to have nukes pointing
at every single city at all times. Unfortunately, that is accurate. But also, there is no way to
diffuse that. Have you seen some of the, I saw recently in a book that Andy Jacobson is getting
ready to release, there's like a map that shows submarine traffic from Chinese nuclear
subs and Russian nuclear subs. And quite literally every day, the traffic lanes for these subs are
going right up the West Coast, passing Los Angeles, and then all the way up the East Coast,
like right off the coast of the Bahamas in Florida, like looping right off the coast of America
on both coasts. It's insane. And we're doing the same thing. Yeah. And we will continue to do it,
because that's a first strike capability. I mean, that's another crazy thing too, is the whole,
I forget what the word is. I think it's a strike on notice or something like that. Like as soon as
it's one of the policies that we have here, that as soon as we get signals intelligence,
confirmed that there is a warhead or a nuclear missile heading towards America,
we have to empty our Silos before that thing hits. So we have, because we have all of our
nuclear missile silos in the Northwest United States, those, we can't move those.
They know exactly where those are. And we know exactly where the ones in Russia and China are
as well. So as soon as we get noticed that there's a nuke coming towards us, we have to assume that
they're going to destroy those. So it's like a use it or lose it thing. So we have to empty our,
so it's like as soon as one person launches, we have to launch. Yeah. And do you know why?
It's like a use it or lose it. The first strike, the first strike, people always,
you know, think it's the, you know, the, that the first strike is Washington, D.C. and major
cities. It is not right. That's not, that's not the nuclear exchange. That's not, and I know that
people listening to this are going to probably go because so what, right? It's still nuclear war.
But what we target in, in the first strike is their weapons. Yes. And they target our weapons.
And the reason that is done is because that's supposed to drive the two warring interests
to the diplomatic table to seek a solution, right? It's supposed to be that if we destroy
your weapons, you destroy ours. Now we, you know, we're on the phone, leader to leader talking
about why that happened and what happened and what we're, you know, it's supposed to be sorted out.
The next target package escalates, it escalates, but the idea that it hits
major populated areas and cuts off the head of the entire country by taking out Washington,
those are last resort targets. They, that's not what anybody's after. That doesn't help
me feel better about it, but you just have to understand it. And yes, there are,
and mistakes can happen. In 1983, about two months before we actually invaded Grenada,
there was a young Soviet missile commander in the Soviet Air Force, a Lieutenant Colonel
who was taking his shift. And when he got, he just took command of the shift. In other words,
the whole, his missile command staff all come in, take the shift over, and the others out brief
and go, and they are there. And they are not there for an hour, for an hour. And all of a sudden,
the Klaxon sounds. And when the Klaxon sounds, it's saying there is inbound missiles.
There was a nuclear missile fired from the United States, from the Western portion of
the United States, fired at the Soviet Union. This young Lieutenant Colonel has them call back
the algorithm, the algorithmists they're called. So the algorithmists are supposed to
relook at the calculations of the computer, computer to confirm or deny. They can say,
no, we don't agree, right? It's not inbound. It's not headed for this place. The computer is wrong
in some way. The algorithmists confirm it. They say, we confirm 100%, a missile was fired,
and the missile is inbound. They had a Soviet satellite over in geosynchronous orbit,
meaning tracking with us, looking down at America. And it could not, it could not verify the missile
launch because there was a thermocline as the sun was setting and the darkness was coming,
and it obscured the optics on the satellite so it couldn't see, it couldn't confirm it.
So you have, the computer says missile launch, the algorithmists all confirm missile launch,
the satellite can't see, the operators can't see, and this young Lieutenant Colonel is now
being hounded by his entire staff for exactly what you said because their protocol is.
If two of the three indicators say, yes, we are supposed to launch, this young man said no.
He said, I'm not, no. He had generals calling him. Why did you not launch? And 15 minutes after
the first one, a klaxon sounds again. Another missile launch is reported by the computer.
Again, the algorithmists confirm the computer. And again, the satellite cannot see because
of the thermocline. It cannot tell or confirm. This young Lieutenant Colonel has eventually,
this keeps repeating itself, four confirmed by computer and algorithmists, four U.S. nuclear
missiles inbound for the Soviet Union in 1983. This guy says, he tells everybody,
generals calling him, he says, it's my job to decide what to do. Everyone is against him,
like Comrade, you are screwing this up. We're gonna die, our weapons are gonna be taken out,
and you're not doing anything about it. Can you imagine the pressure he was under,
not to mention that his wife was dying of cancer at home and he was distraught by that. So here he
is, all of that. Everybody hates his guts and he says, I will wait for the ground radar to confirm
the missiles. So the ground radar is shooting at the horizon. And so if those missiles
enter their pattern, they will detect it. And they watch the clock and watch the clock
and watch the clock. And first missile, according to the computer and the algorithmists,
has now entered Soviet airspace and should be monitored inbound to its target. And the radar
operators call the missile command center and say, no missile detected. For the second missile,
no missile detected. For the third, no missile detected. For the fourth, no missile detected.
The reward for him doing this was everybody, great relief and tears because nobody wants
a thermal nuclear war. The next day, the general in charge of this guy calls him in,
demotes him to major, claims that he falsified his log for the night before,
demotes him to major, relieves him of his position and he basically just serves out the rest of
the time in the Air Force as a pariah. And his story is never known until after the fall of
the Soviet Union. And he is pretty much an alcoholic. His wife died. He lives alone,
doesn't speak to his brother, doesn't speak to his mother. He just- Is he still alive?
He died recently. He died, I think, in 2018. But once that was discovered about him,
a book was written and a documentary done called The Man Who Saved the World. And people
don't know that story and don't care to know that story and what great courage.
Can you imagine? If he acted in accordance with what he was trained to do and expected to do,
they would have launched against us. So,
what an unbelievable blessing and what an unbelievable act of courage on this man's part.
And he's the sworn enemy of the United States. And yet he was that hesitant to begin a thermonuclear
war. I can only hope, but I doubt that in our processes of something like that were to happen,
that we would have people that act the same. And we only have 26 minutes to make that call.
The time it would take a missile, a ground missile, to fly through the atmosphere and hit
the United States from Russia would be 26 minutes. And they have only like six minutes to launch
when they find out or they get that intelligence. It's insane the amount of time, the small amount.
And one-minute man missile, one-minute man missile warhead carries the explosive force
of every bomb dropped in the European theater and by the Allies and every bomb dropped in
the Pacific theater by the Allies, including Hiroshima and Nagasaki, all combined into one
warhead. It's devastating to think about the thing. And we have 3,600 of them.
And the subs have the MIRVs where they have three, I think three or four warheads in one missile.
And those things are all targeted. It's terrifying. And to think that imagine if
North Korea were to launch a nuke towards the U.S. and we got wind of that and we had to do a
launch on ready where we had to shoot, you know, empty our nuclear arsenal back towards North Korea
where our nukes have to fly over Russia to hit North Korea. We fly them north.
So we have to get, within six minutes, we have to get Putin on the phone
and be like, yo, we're launching these nukes at North Korea, not you.
But when's the last time we got Putin on the phone? Hello? Oh, I think my audio just kind of
clocked out. When's the last time we were able to get Putin on the phone that fast?
I don't know. I'm assuming, you know, that's what the nuclear football is all about.
Yeah, right. Exactly.
It's not, and it's the other thing that people don't understand about this process is like,
you know, people, they're either lunatics or they're just doing it for their own propaganda
purposes. Like, you know, remember all the people bitching and complaining about the fact that
President Trump became President Trump? And the big claim by many was that, oh, you're putting the
nuclear football, you're putting the fate of the free world, you know, into this guy's hands kind
of thing. No president has the single authority to launch a thermonuclear war. We would never put
that. Do you want to have Biden to be capable of, you know, waking up and yawning and then turning
around and going, yeah, fire. That doesn't happen that way. There's an entire chain of approval
that has to happen. It happens quickly. It has to happen very quickly. But that's why
there's a guy running around with what they call the nuclear football, which is a communications
device for the president to be able to contact other world leaders simultaneously or one at
a time and to make those decisions, you know, to tell them, look, this is not good, or we are
detecting inbound missiles. Did you fire on us? Kind of thing. So I'm sure that the leader of China,
and I'm sure that the leader of Russia, I'm sure that the leader of most nuclear nations,
if not all of them, have that same communications capability. It kind of goes
with the responsibility. Probably not North Korea. You want to look at this UFO, this video?
Yeah, what is this video? Okay, now this is an ESRI animation. It's a company that
tracks this stuff. And I told you that, you know, when you're looking at this timeline,
I want you to see how from 1945, the number of UFO UAP sightings increases. Because as we start the
space race, check this out. So here we come 38, nothing really. And here we head into the 40s.
Oh, wow.
Quite telling, is it not? Wow, man.
Geez, New York is lit up. Wow.
Amazing, right? That is incredible. That is a really powerful unit. You can see there's not a
lot. Now look, arguments for this are, you'll see people will go, well, there were UFO sightings
and in the 13th century and in the 16th century, what there were were sightings of things that
people didn't understand what they were seeing, and they may very well have been otherworldly.
I'm not saying that that's certainly not a possibility. I firmly believe that there are other
worlds and there are other races and there are other developed planets and there are vehicles and
other things out there, but it is not like, it's not like we're imagining that it is. I think that
there's probably about somewhere between two and four percent that are actual sightings of those
kinds of things, of the reported sightings and the rest of the sightings are space war technology.
Right. What is your opinion on this David Grush fella?
The one everybody's calling a whistleblower? Yes. And he's talking about, hey, he just recently
went to New York and did some talk at some penthouse for some billionaire talking about how
he saw a craft that looked like it was 40 feet from the outside and as soon as you go inside the
craft, it's as big as a football field. He's saying all kinds of crazy stuff and there's often
the rise of the con, man. It's like people can say anything. First of all, he's not a whistleblower.
Okay. I hate that when people start calling people that are doing what he's doing, whistleblowing.
He is a, what he is, is a purveyor of hearsay because only a few intelligent interviewers
in listening to him rant on about, I know that we have captured alien craft. I know that we have
alien bodies and a few intelligent interviewers have said, you know, have you seen these? Well,
no. Then how do you know? Well, I have some colleagues who are, I trusted sources who do have
personal knowledge of these things. And if they're telling me that, that's what I'm, who are these
people? Well, I can't tell you that. Well, there you go. So now all you are is a hearsay peddler.
You're standing up expressing some degree of narcissistic, sociopathic tendency.
Some might even say pathological. So you can get your face on a camera. You can,
you get this endearing public supporting you in what you're saying, but you have no proof,
no evidence. And the fact that somebody, you claim somebody told you something,
frankly, just doesn't pass the litmus test for us. And we have to be discerning about these things.
Anybody can stand up in today and say anything. And the number of people who will actually turn
around and go, I think that's bullshit is minimal because everybody else wants to chime in on,
especially if you're part of the UFO community. It's just like, you know, David Greer standing up
and saying Stephen Greer, sorry. And one of his documentaries, he stands up and right
stare straight into the camera and says, well, yeah, because of my CE five, CE five protocol,
right? Which is a bunch of folks in the desert sitting around in lawn chairs standing up and,
you know, staring up into space and communicating with their mind, right? Is what he's saying
following this CE five protocol, which is nothing more than a meditation is what it is. And he
starts plugging in words like remote viewing and other stuff, right? Trying to dovetail on some
of those technologies. And he claims that this was so powerful and so innovative and so amazing.
He stood right there on a documentary and said, and oh, yeah, you know, after we were doing this
and having all this great success, he said that the chief of staff for intelligence,
for army intelligence, scooped him up off of the street in Washington, D.C. and took him to a hotel
where at the hotel, there were two Air Force officers and two CIA agents and that he was
roughed up and interrogated, you know, very brutally or words to that effect. And that they
told him, who do you think you are for developing this protocol? We didn't give you permission
to communicate with the aliens, et cetera, et cetera. Now, do you believe one word of that?
First of all, the chief of staff for army intelligence is a three-star general.
A three-star general went out and took his weightlifting steroid ass and stuffed him in the
back of a military vehicle and carried him away. He didn't say MPs grab me. He said the chief of
staff of army intelligence grabbed him. How does that happen? It doesn't. They don't go take people
off the street and certainly some three-star general doesn't go do it and he doesn't have a staff
to go muscle people around and do something like that. So I would, you know, but nobody asked that
question. Well, what was his name? You know, who were the guys that helped him or did he do it by
himself? What kind of car was it? You say he took you to a hotel. What hotel? Did it have a name?
And if you're saying there were two Air Force officers in there, how do you know they were
Air Force officers? Well, if they had uniforms on, they have name tags on. And even if they're not
wearing your jacket, they have name tags on. Who were they? You know? And what ranks were they?
And if CIA agents were there, how do you know there were CIA agents? Did they show you ID?
Right? You see, but nobody asked those questions. And the whole UFO community
accepts this as truth and it is not. It cannot, it is not. It's just ridiculousness. But here,
you know, it's like I said, it's we are in an age of the rise of the con. You can just stand up and
say anything. You can be that preposterous and draw a crowd. There will be an element of the
population just like Itzhak Bintov showed you. There will be an element of the population
that will believe that just because it was said by a medical doctor, an emergency medical doctor.
I don't think he's licensed as current, but hey, yeah, I don't think it is, but maybe it is.
Yeah, I get a lot of culty vibes from a lot of a lot of these people in the UFO community,
especially people that are monetizing it. You know, people that are they're making so much
money from people getting, you know, paying for, I think he sells, he sells, he sells the CE5 protocol.
Oh, does he really? Absolutely. And it's from what I understand, it's pretty pricey.
I can't quote the exact price of him. I say this, it checked me on it. But I think it's somewhere
around $1,500 for this thing. And I have a copy of it right here. And if you look at it and it's
just laughable, what does that mean CE5 protocol? It means that it's like the from the movie,
the third, the thing with Richard Dreyfus and Devil's Tower. What the hell was the name of
that movie? I can't remember it now. It was the that movie with Richard Dreyfus where he starts,
you know, mashing mashed potatoes around close encounters, close encounters. So CE is close
encounters of the fifth kind, which is mind communication with aliens. We're calling the
spacecraft down, but there are people who actually believe that that's what they're doing. You know,
I don't know. Maybe they're out there in this, but they're always going to places where
there are known sightings of probably space wars craft being reentering for landing somewhere
and coming in at 18,000 miles per hour or 23,000 miles per hour and doing what they're doing.
And but they believe that they're calling these craft down into an, you know, to assembly to
present themselves to them. And there are no controls and they're not trained. They just get
this protocol and then they do it. And I'm not trying to be critical of those people doing that.
They, when a person stands up that is supposed to be, have an intellect that they and they trust,
I mean, when he went into that community, I mean, they thought that God had descended down,
you know, to be with them because they had never had a spokesperson that came from, you know,
that level of society. They're always, you know, former Air Force, this or Air Force,
that or somebody else that was willing to step into that position and try to keep that community
held together with promises. And, you know, he stepped in making the promise that he was going to,
you know, rip this up and open it up and we were going to get some answers.
And he, like everybody else, when he soon finds out that that's not going to happen,
then you have to start exaggerating things. You have to start, you know, throwing up smoke screens.
I'll give you another example. He goes to a, some guy that was in the Air Force,
he could have been an officer. He may have been a senior non-commissioned officer. I can't remember.
But he actually gets an audience with an Air Force officer in the Pentagon,
probably a spokesperson for some staff division there. The implication is that these are the
guys that oversee the UFO UAPs, but there's no indication of that whatsoever. It's just if this
guy calls up and calls in a favor, somebody, maybe this Air Force major or maybe an Air Force captain,
just gets detailed to do that. So he sits down with them and listens to them talk about what
their demands are, what they want and why it should be happening and they don't understand and they've
been trying. And this Air Force officer prepares what's called a memorandum for record. A memorandum
for record is done after every conversation like that. There are probably 5 million memorandums
for record, MFRs for short. It produced in the Pentagon from every office, from phone calls
to staff briefings to inter-office agency communications, MFRs, they're like corpuscles,
you know. It's a lifeblood in the military. It carries information and so they are rarely classified
and if they are classified, they actually go by another route because they might say classified
and then every sentence that could be classified or a paragraph that has classified information
would have to have a classification to the left of the paragraph and then the number and then
the paragraph. But once again, I'm sure what happened is that the individual that had the
contact probably picked up the phone, called back in there and said, hey, I know you've done an MFR
or the guy said, look, I'll do an MFR, I'll draft this up and I'll pass it on,
which is exactly what he would say. Thank you. Thank you for being here. I got everything here,
I think, in my notes. I'll do an MFR and I'll pass it to the next officer in the chain.
And I'm sure that that individual asked for a copy of that MFR, which would not be an unusual
thing to ask for and if that MFR was classified, he would never get a copy of it. But the MFR was
not classified. It wasn't classified and it would be absolutely no hesitation whatsoever
for that officer who generated the MFR to send a copy to the two people that were there
spilling their guts to him about what they wanted and needed. And it would say on this date at this
time, these two people appeared in my office room, blah, blah, blah, the E-ring of the Pentagon,
and we talked for one hour on these subjects. They brought this to my attention, this, this,
this, and they made these demands or they made these requests and my response to them was this.
That's a memorandum for record. It's a record of the conversation. Right. Goes over his signature
block and he would have had no problem emailing a copy of that. But how it's now couched to the UFO
community is by Greer and the other guy, it's a leaked memorandum, a leaked memorandum, you know,
of our conversation. Right. And it's not a leaked memorandum. It was a, it was simply an email to
you because it's not classified, nothing in there that they're concerned about. And that,
that memorandum from that point, if it did go to the next officer in the chain and the desk,
the action taken on it was probably to roll it up into a quite a small ball and throw it in the
trash can right there. I mean, they have important shit to work on and do and take care of. They're
not going to run something like that up the tape and back down again, the tape, and they're not
going to put that in front of general officers for general officers to, you know, have to sign that
they've read this thing. It's not going to happen. So it's just this idea that you can't be honest
about what you're really doing and what's really happening. Why can't you? Because, as you said,
when it's being monetized and when you're trying to hold the position, you have to keep saying
something that, that makes the people in the community believe that what you're saying is real
and that you're really, you really are kicking it up the ladder. You're going to get important
results and it's just all smoke. People are, are so easily convinced of the most outrageous
things just to get some sort of sense of community, you know, people who are anti-social or outcasts
from, from any realm of society to, to have that sense of community, you know, with people like
Greer and other people in the, in the whole UFO community, I get like a lot of Heaven's Gate
vibes, you know, the Heaven's Gate cult where it convinced all these people to commit suicide
and they were going to ascend to another planet to hang out with aliens. That might be a little
extreme in the comparison, but I get where you're coming from. It's the same thing, man. It's so
culty. It's so culty. Yeah. And, and, and if you have somebody who has some sort of
knowledge that is privileged and they're very charismatic and you get a bunch of people who
together want to, that want to believe it and they're, they're, they're not listening to any sort of
like outside logic against it. They're just, it's just this cycle of, of reinforcing bias,
reinforcement on everything that these people are telling them and they're paying money.
It's like you're in this positive feedback loop. Yeah. And, you know, I get the, I just get that
vibe from a lot of things that are happening in this whole UFO community. Yeah. I agree with you,
100%. It's disappointing. I don't like to, I don't necessarily like to tell that story,
but I was so insulted by the fact that a man of letters would stand up and say that to people.
And I know it is absolutely untrue. It would never happen. And, but nobody questioned him on that.
And I just, I don't like having, I don't like taking on, you know, that kind of persona to talk
about that. But I, you know, part of what I'm trying to say or make a message to people is
we have to start listening and we have to start being discerning. We have to, you know,
put things through a litmus test. We have to try to figure out what somebody's saying is
total bullshit for, for money, right? Or for fame, you know, or if it's, if it actually has
some degree of merit, but we can't keep running around, you know, and much, much of that community
as you and I have talked about, they are constantly
dividing their lives down to be looking for something to be offended by, right?
Or how much of these people are just useful idiots and they have handlers that are pushing
them in one direction to, and they don't know they have, they're completely unaware. Maybe
they aren't making money off it. Maybe they're just like getting attention and, and there's
somebody like nudging him one direction, like, Hey man, I think, I think you're on to something.
I think, you know, you should really, and he knows like this guy, this guy's connected and
he's telling me, well, you know, I'm kind of on the right path. So I'm going to keep going down
this. This gives me purpose. I'm getting attention from it. I'm going to be a whistleblower and
it's part of the human psyche. It indeed is. And there is a rise of narcissism.
And there is a rise of narcissism, narcissism with any number of manifestations of pathologies.
And it's, it's depressing. It is, I mean, the idea of just understanding the world and of trying
to seek truth in the historical events of the world and trying to put it into perspective and
understand we may not like certain things of it, but it's the history of the world. And it's the
history and the development and the progression of humankind. It is still a dangerous place. It
always will be, you know, until we get to some place where we evolve into something else where
we're not interested in wars and every, what all that means. We're not being driven by greed of the
industrial complex to do that. And that comes in every possible way you can imagine. I mean,
the amount of greed that goes on in the military industrial complex is one level of things.
But people that don't even ever have never put on a uniform and don't work for the
military or the government are out there ripping people off right and left as fast as they can
come up with the next good scheme, right? There's a movie out now called Beekeeper with Strayhan.
I've been meaning to watch that. It's a little bit tongue-in-cheek, but the premise of it is that
there's a group that sends this thing to your computer that says your computer's been affected
with a virus, call this number and we'll sort it out. And then the fast-talker on the phone,
you know, gets this person who doesn't know much about computers and is concerned. I mean,
never first cue is if you are stupid enough to call because you actually think that somebody's
going to remote into your computer and get rid of a virus that they're now going to empty out
your bank account. Now, that's happening in India, but it's also happening with various cells within
the U.S. That's what this movie is about, but it's fictional. But it is very real in terms of what
happens. They're doing that. And, you know, people that don't know enough to know that they're being
conned turn around and lose their entire fortune because whatever money they have,
they will step in because they have banks of people waiting. It's not like one guy.
Soon as they get you to download a software that allows them to have access to your computer,
they zero you out and they have ways to trick you to put in passwords and other things. And
there's a really funny YouTube video of a, there's a guy who is an American,
but he is East Indian and he attacks these guys. What he does is he calls up, you know...
Oh yeah, he's a YouTube channel. Yeah, yeah. Oh, he has a great YouTube channel.
It's amazing. What's it called again? He's got millions and millions of people that watch this
stuff and he calls back and he scams the scammers or catches them. Yeah, he deletes their entire
database while they're talking to it. Right? And it's amazing. My son who's a detective,
he, a DC Metro, he's the one that turned me on to this. He goes like, dad, you got to watch this.
Oh, it's incredible what he does. So I got hooked on it and I must have watched like 50 episodes and
you, you know, you're, you're like, yeah, good. Somebody's getting these bastards back kind of thing.
But I got busy with other stuff. So... Yeah. But what you were saying about humanity not going
in the direction of greed and wars and being territorial apes with thermonuclear weapons,
I don't, do you think that's possible? I think we're too far down the road already.
I don't see any possible thing that could change our trajectory.
Here's what I'm going to give you a physics explanation for that in late terms and
any given population, if you can introduce an ideology into that population,
that 10% of that population in theory will adopt fully with small variations.
That, that ideology at that time can trigger a chain reaction that can eventually overcome
the entire population sample to do that. I believe that if the right message, if the
right transformative tools come along, I believe that we can do that. I just,
we're not ready now. We are in a destructive cycle of the global societal evolution.
That's where we are. We've been in a protracted cycle of that. And I,
we're not going to come out of it. We just came out of a 20 year war, 20 years of war.
And that's never happened before. So think of the impact of that and, and the damage done to just
the spiritual thoughts and hopes and dreams or, you know, the, the human pathway that focuses on,
you know, on a rebirth and a regrowth of humanity in a very positive way,
starting with our each individual, right? And passing on to the collective and, and so it goes.
And if you can reach that 10% and get there, you can start this chain reaction and just
human thought and human processing. We're not telling enough of the good stories and we're
not being discerning enough to know when somebody's scamming us and trying to break us down and take
us apart. And part of that, again, goes back to the, what I said to you, that all the studies
are revealing that just our cognitive processing and our brain is changing because an entire
generation has grown up with a cell phone in their hand, you know, staring at it. I went
some time ago to a restaurant on a Valentine's Day when I was,
when I was dating somebody, I'm getting divorced. So I was with this person and
we were in this restaurant and, you know, we were talking in the restaurant. And this waitress
came up and said, I just want to say this. She goes, today when I came to work, I prayed that
when I came to work, I would actually see people looking at each other and talking to them.
Because every other time I come to work, couples will come in here and they set on opposite sides
of the table with their face and their phone. And the only time they look up is to give me their
order and then they go right back. They don't converse. They don't express anything, no facial
contact. It's all in the body of the phone. And we know, based on research, that eight hours a day
with your face and your phone, texting on social media, tweeting, Instagrams, all the other
shit that's out there, right? TikTok. Yeah, TikTok. And it is just consuming and it's changing how we
communicate. It's changing how we listen. It's changing our attention span. It's increasing
levels of anxiety and irritability. It's all these things that it is nothing good about it,
but it just keeps growing and no controls. People get in fights. They get in. It's like I told you,
you know, that I was asked if I wanted to engage with this UFO guy who wanted to quibble with me
about whether or not the unit had ever seen grays, right, in the off-planet historical target files.
And I was asked that by Sean Haslow and I said, app's a f*****g literally not.
He was asking you if you saw anything when you were doing remote viewing sessions for like the
moon or something? No, in a historical, there was a historical off-planet file.
And what that was is the unit was working off-planet targets. They would do them as
general interest, you know, let's go see that and there's a protocol for an open search outward.
There's a there's also specific targeted things. You could go to the dark side of the moon. You
could go to Mars. You can go into Olympus Mon. You can go in in Mons. You can go into Lava Tubes.
You can go to all and do all these things looking for alien life, alien civilizations.
And who came up with the idea to visit these certain spaces?
Well, it kind of dovetails on the question you asked me when we started here about about the
pyramids. That's the first place I'd want to take everybody. Yeah. So that's where it started.
And I don't actually know what the origins of it was, but I do know that it was there. And I do
know that the there was like this many thought there were many this many sessions, you know,
in a file drawer that were there. And of course, at Dames has talked about it. I've talked about it.
Mel Riley before he passed away talked about it. Lim Buchanan has talked about it. Gabriel
Pettengale would talk about it. But she's passed now as well. And then you have to remember
that there's still there are still some people who say that no, the unit never did that. Well,
it's like, yeah, the unit did. And maybe you didn't do it. But the, you know, that
maybe you were never invited to go do it. Because of that, I don't know. But the program
manager talked about it. Fern Gavin. I don't know if the guy that replaced him
ever talked about it or did it. But it was done. And as I said, there's a protocol
for an open search outward where you can actually, it's difficult to describe without,
you know, the without a graphic, but it is basically you're doing a Cartesian coordinate
process. So you are going taking a theoretical figurative cube of the known universe is what
you're doing. And we know that the universe has an edge now, it's not infinite. We know it has an
edge. And there are all sorts of models that predict how this the universe actually looks
on the edges based on just the measurement of the separation of galaxies and the speeds,
et cetera, and the directions that they modeled this now to say, it could look like this, and it
could look like this. And those mathematical models are really interesting. But what fascinates me
is that it says that the universe is no longer an infinite, it has an edge, it came from somewhere.
And it is expanded outward into somewhere. And the question is, what's it expanding into?
What is it expanding into? And does a black hole take part of this, which are still theoretical,
but does a black hole based on what we believe that they are, is that pulling in material from
this universe and pushing it through the event horizon into another, into another space,
just like our universe is in. Because when you take us back to a point of singularity,
it's not saying poof magically, it appeared, it's saying that it came into this dimensional space
and expanded outward. So it's a fascinating idea. And you know, the mathematical models talk about
the quantum boom of space-time. And they're saying it's like the number of universes,
it's like the foam on the head of a beer, right? They just keep, some of them have these pathways
that loop back into the universe at another place. Some of them have the pathway that goes
to another and expands into it from a point of singularity, back into another space, another
dimension. It's not what, it's not what the many worlds theories mean, that that's don't,
that's not what that means. That's a totally different concept. But it is the idea that there
are multiple universes and they are sharing and, you know, there are pathways between them.
If you come from one of those universes in another dimension where you have the ability for
interstellar travel or, you know, full time, space, whatever, you know, from a sci-fi perspective,
then it's feasible. It's very real. I think it's quite logical to assume that you would have the
ability to pop into this universal dimension or maybe just pop in and transit from one to,
you know, going to another dimension. We just happen to be the countryside that you travel through.
You know what I mean? Right. It's very possible. But those theories are there and we do know
that the universe has an edge now. So that's an amazing concept, you know.
Have you ever seen the show called Man in the High Castle?
No. This is about the PK Dick book where it's the, the theme of it is basically,
it takes place in an alternate universe where the Nazis won World War II and they took over
North America and it's basically split with Japan and they developed some sort of technology where
they can put you in this chamber and they hook you up to this device and certain people have
the powers to be able to hop from one universe to the other and people are going back and forth
between our reality right now. This takes place in like the 50s or 60s and go back and forth to
the dimension where the Nazis won the war. And it's fascinating. It's similar to kind of like
what you're talking about, I think, where there's basically alternate outcomes of like every single
decision that we make can lead to like, it's like the idea when you hit a golf ball, if the angle
of the iron is just a millimeter that way, the trajectory is going to be like hundreds of yards
depending on how short of a change you make here. So like every single decision we make could be,
I could decide to do this or do that and that would lead to a million different outcomes. It's
similar to kind of like what you were talking about with the Titanic and the event arc of time
in the last podcast. Yeah. And to be able to have the technology to transverse between all those
different dimensions or universes or multiversities, different probabilities, different probabilities.
Yeah. So the potentials they're referred to. So is that similar to what you guys were trying to do?
Yeah. I mean, you took this known universe and again, figuratively, and with a Cartesian coordinate
system, you're able to, you're slicing it up. So you're slicing it up. So you have an X one
through 100, Y one through 100, Z axes one through 100. That gives you a cube based on whatever
you're going to pull. So if it's X 50, Y 65, and Z 62, it's going to, when you match those together,
you're going to have a cube inside of the cube. But it's going to have an address now, right?
Because it has a Cartesian coordinate. Now you can pull that one out and you can further slice it
down again through the Cartesian coordinate process. And that gives you yet another cube inside the
already smaller cube. And you can keep doing that again, three times. So you have the statistical
relevance of what it is you're doing. And then you now have a, you have an address
in the known universe or the universe that you can now actually have a program manager
remove the Cartesian coordinate and assign the two sets of four numbers based on the concept of
that target. The concept that target now is you take a team of 20 remote viewers and you say
your intention for them now as you assign those coordinates is for you to have a 20 viewer shotgun
blast into that piece of the universe to that address, which is still enormous, right? And the
theory is if there is something pronounced there, then in a shotgun blast of 20 viewers,
some of them will stumble upon it. And some of them will stumble upon something else.
But when you do the analysis on the data, now you're looking for the correlation in the data.
You're looking for sketches that correlate. You're looking for other sensory data that
correlates. Now, is this a fascinating thing? Hell yeah. Can you turn around and tell people that,
oh, look what we discovered, you know, out in space? No, you can't. I mean, you can do it,
but you're just contributing to the mess because what that is is anecdotal.
It's experiential, anecdotal. Is it fun to do? Do remote viewers like to do it? Yeah,
but that's as far as that goes. But in this story, I said on the podcast with Sean, I said,
I looked all through those files, and I never saw anybody sketching grays or mentioning
grays as alien life forces. And they saw life forms and they saw other alien civilizations,
but never that. It wasn't in the file. I then said, out of 25,000 students,
not all of which have ever been able to do off-planet targets, because I don't do that until you get
into really advanced stuff like mastery and Explorer Group. You'll get an opportunity to work
some of the old historical files. And that way you then get to see the feedback that was generated
in the late 70s and the 80s. And that's kind of cool for people to see, but I always couch it.
It's anecdotal. It was an experience. I just want you to have that experience and remember
what you perceived. But don't start wrapping your life around that. And nobody ever produced
little grays who worked those targets. So in making that pronouncement, this guy
reads that and then turns right around, takes my quote, or here's it, takes my quotes me on
Twitter and on Facebook, and God knows wherever else, and then slams that back to Sean. Well,
maybe Morehouse would like to comment on this, because Lynn said he saw grays. It's like,
okay. I didn't say that Lynn didn't see grays. I said that was not an historical file. Who the
fuck knows why it's not? Maybe Lynn kept his own remote viewing session. I don't know. A lot of
people did. A lot of people, if they thought what they were doing might be perceived as
controversial, would just take their shit home. He classified, but take it home or shred it,
because they just didn't want it left there. And other people would take it home because
they wanted proof of something that they had done. That happened a lot. What kind of stuff
for people seeing? Or did you see when you were remote viewing off-world targets?
There's an entire array of that. We should do that as a separate thing. But I mean,
remote viewers were describing this seeming like a capillary system that was moving
negative and positive. And that's a very, very simplistic perspective, but balancing the universe
like a capillary system, probably 20 years after that was being already perceived by thousands of
viewers that were working those targets. On the cover of Scientific American, there is this concept
sketch showing this flowing like a capillary system in the universe that's moving energy from one
place to the other. And it's put in there and portrayed as this lime green against the black
darkness of a universal cube, of a universe cube. It's a cubed universe for illustration purposes,
and it has this capillary system in it that looks absolutely like a lymphatic system
in a human being. And it's a concept that dark energy or something else that's being moved around.
And I was just fascinated by that, but that viewers were describing that. They were describing
this thing that it was like standing in a flow or floating in a flow. There you go. That's that's
it. Oh, no, that's not it. That's actually a Hubble telescope image. Oh, really? Yeah.
There is a, there is a... Oh, wow. It's a, it looks similar to that, but it's actually a Scientific
American cover. I don't, I mean, let me check and see if I've got it here. There's a universe
structure right there. There you go. Yeah. So the universe. Oh, that's bizarre. It is very much so.
Let me see if I have this. What did you guys find on the dark side of the moon? Nothing.
Nothing. Damn it. I never had anybody do it. Oh, really? And there wasn't anything significant from
a, no, it was nothing. There were other, there were craft and there were beings that,
you know, many people over the decades have described him like, like Vikings looking things,
like, but John, you know, very large and muscular and, you know, a wall that was much like what's
behind you there in the sound foam, but they're touching the wall. They're touching the wall to
make things move in and out, which are part of the control mechanisms of the ship is how it was,
you know, described, but it's, you know, there's all different kinds of things that,
that came up with it. Holy shit. Is that it? That's, that's it. Yeah. Oh, wow. So you can see
and looking at that is, that's another, that's another version of it, but they're depicting,
you know, the flow of energy structures within the universe that are maintaining balance.
So you, you don't have, you can't have, you can't have
all negative in one spot and all positive in another spot to put it in lay terms. The,
the, the lymphatic system is balancing it. This lymphatic or capillary system is balancing things
in the universe. And the viewers, their perception of it is as they're detecting or coding and
objectifying is their senses that they're actually, that they're actually standing, you know, like
being underwater and being in a current flow, a directional current flow. And then there are
pieces of things that they perceive that go by them and they, they all perceive it somewhat
similarly or similarly and others, you know, it correlates and some of them are, you know,
completely a fabrication of their own, how they're perceiving it. Imagine being a human being,
finding yourself, perceiving that, how do you describe it? If you don't have anything in your
experience database, right, something you've actually encountered or experienced and have
knowledge of, you lack the language to describe it. So you, your brain does the best it can
with what it comes up with. And I've seen everything from people saying it was like
television sets going by and little individual stories in each of the television sets.
Oh, wow. Or it was like pieces of film rolling, you know, rolling life stories going by me.
I mean, everything from that to other people calling it, you know, a cosmic hot tub because
wow, of the vibration they felt in their bodies as they were standing in this. And all of these
manifestations of pictures of, you know, them sketching themselves like trying to maintain
balance there while all of this strong current of energy flow is coming at them. And then
they're showing it, you know, bifurcating and bifurcating again and moving off in different
directions. Fascinating to see this. Again, the only time we've ever had some sort of a
confirmation of that other than the correlation that comes over the years, over the decades from
thousands of viewers doing the target is just the correlation of the data and sketches, etc.
But then when Scientific American coughs this up and it's an artist concept based on new theories
that are evolving and what this is and what it might be and what it might look like, that's
pretty fascinating correlation again, right? Still, it's not proven that that exists, but it is
being worked on and the theory is that it is there and it does serve a purpose and this is
what it looks like, folks. So it was a fascinating thing. And it just rolls on. I mean, you know,
there are dozens of different kinds of civilizations described. There were dozens of
different kinds of beings described, but there were no grays. And by God, I am not going to get
in a pissing contest with some UFO dude over whether or not, you know, I'm not going to go
defend my comments. First of all, I don't, I couldn't care less. I mean, I have nothing to
do with that, with anything like that. And I'm not going to tit for tat with some guy because
he wants to pick, he has a bone to pick with me over about grays. It's like, I couldn't care less.
I didn't say Lynn didn't see him. I just said, I didn't see him. I speak to what I know.
I didn't say anything about him. If he saw grays, bravo. He saw grays. The guy was looking for
validation is what he's doing. And he's also looking for me to get engaged with him in an
argument so he can say, yeah, well, Lynn did it. So what he's done is, you know, in some big flurry
of emotion, he's quoted me and tossed it out there to the world, you know, and then thrown down the
gauntlet, which I'm like, listen to me, I don't care. So no, I'm not giving you not one scintilla
of my time. I will not spend two neurons in my brain to engage with that with you. Right. Have
at it. Have fun. But as we got talking about, it's like that community,
they just run around with their, you know, looking for a reason to pour gasoline on themselves
and set themselves alight and just bump into each other and catch each other on fire.
They're pissed off. They feel betrayed. Everybody should be doing this and that.
And it's like, Jesus, my God, you know, how exhausting that must be for you to just run
around being pissed off and, you know, and charging windmills like that. It's,
it's a work of fantasy fiction and you just stop it. I mean, God, stop it. It's good.
Do you, do you know if there are still any active remote viewing programs going on or was that all
kiboshed? I, here's what I will say is that I'll tell you what I know. I know that the
intelligence collection methodology that was utilized in remote viewing programs held its own
and served its purpose. Did it have detractors? Of course it did. It's a very controversial
intelligence collection methodology, but every intelligence collection methodology has its weaknesses,
all of them, especially things like human intelligence. It can be misinterpreted.
It can be misinformation. It can be an outright lie. It can be total confusion. It could be anything.
And there are 35 different intelligence collections methodologies now that are in play
that include, you know, cyber intelligence and sat intelligence of photo electronic and
you name it. And still human is there. Human is there as fallible as it is. Human intelligence
put us into a war in Iraq. It was used to put us into a war in Iraq and it was fouled and it was
wrong, but it was accepted and utilized to spin us into a war in 2003. So remote viewing
was neither, you know, more accurate than any of the others, nor less accurate than any of the others.
All of them are subject to human interpretation, right? No matter what it is, it has to be looked
at by an analyst and interpreted and value given to it or not. So all of those intelligence
collection methodologies, they all have their ups and downs. They all sway with the pulse
of what they're being asked to look at and the skill sets and devotion of the analysts that are
working the data analysis for the customer. The CIA put a great deal of money into this program
and they did so at a time when they were absolutely convinced that the Soviets and the
Chinese were running full steam ahead in developing this kind of warfare as an intelligence collection
tool. They did so at a time when Gottlieb and Dulles and others felt that what was happening is
mind control was now going to be the new weapon, the new battlefield was the human mind. In fact,
Dulles, speaking to a Princeton University alumni group, stood up and said the new battlefield
coming before us in the 70s and the 80s and then the 90s and beyond is the battlefield of the mind
and the world is trying to find ways to control the human mind and to infuse ideologies
into the human mind to be able to diffuse a national ideology and identity and supplant that
with another national ideology and identity. Look around and tell me you don't think that that has
actually come to be and so the MKUltra project was done out of absolute fear and terror that we
didn't know how to do any of this stuff. We didn't know how to control the human mind. We didn't
know how to break it and then rebuild it. We didn't know any of those things and if we know that
they're going to be doing it, certainly that was the great fear but I also want to say this,
that great fear came primarily, it did not come from those Nazi documents. It came from
human intelligence sources. There are no documents that have ever existed that anybody knows about
and there are no documents in the CIA files that talk about what they were told that spawned
this effort which actually was discussed in 1970 and then in 1972 the CIA let that
sole source contract to SRI International. That's when the psychic arms race started.
What was going on in MKUltra was mind control. Did they discuss ESP? I'm sure they probably did.
They were trying to figure out a way to build remote interject assassins,
meaning just like in Manchurian candidate. That is not far-fetched and they had indicators
that the North Koreans through the Chinese that they were working on these things and that fear
rocked their world and these are the guys that are supposed to protect us. So what are they doing?
People look at them and go, well, what assholes that they did this.
We asked them to do that shit, to do those things. Now, do we ask them to use unwitting,
non-compliant experimentation on human beings? Absolutely not. Those were subcategories of
their major categories of their sub-projects they called them and those sub-projects they crossed
a line and they were doing experiments on unwitting people and that's outrageous.
But you have to understand their motivation for it was not a maniacal nefarious motivation.
It was a great fear that they did not know what the Soviet and the Chinese knew.
They did not know that and that started with the human stuff. The idea that there's something beyond
the physical in every human being may indeed have come out of the German records trove that
everybody is referencing now, but I told you what the main categories are. Folklore,
an atlas of folklore and another discussion and dialogue on Britain and other places within
Europe and what's happening at the Norwegian thing where they were trying to get a joint
science project there to study language and culture. Again, supporting this Aryan ideology
that was big and Naziism. If you read that book I told you to read or suggested you read,
you'll see all of this. The dowsing project was just this whole idea of the occult being strong
within an Aryan culture and within all of the elements of government and other things in Hitler's
Reich, his Hitler's Germany is just not accurate. So you if you were to guess you would say no we
don't have a current active remote viewing program going on today? Yeah and thanks for
bringing me back to that because we did venture off. I think we do. Oh we do. My point that I was
trying to do with the backstory was to say that it's too much money and it's too much time
and it's as effective as many other intelligence collection methodologies. I do not for one second
believe that it has been shut down and not ever used again. What I do believe is this,
once it was exposed in Psychic Warrior, once they knew that they weren't going to be able to stop that
book, I hate that title, but once they knew that they couldn't stop that book, they launched their
counter campaign which was then to minimize it, to divert, disinformation, all this stuff coming
out of the CIA talking about these things and I say this all the time, the CIA is not the central
information agency. When the CIA is talking to the press about a project that is closing down,
they're talking to the press about that and telling these stories and leaking your stories,
they're doing it for a reason, it's damage control. Oh yeah we did it, we spent 20 million on it,
we did it for 25 years or 30 years, but we're not doing it anymore. We found it to be of no value.
That takes everybody turns around and goes, oh okay, mission accomplished. Oh well now we're
going to declassify and release all of this based on the FOIA request. Yeah, they're releasing
everything based on that FOIA request about a unit that they told you that they were closing down
because that unit had been exposed and understand all of the documents in that FOIA
Oh, 27,000 some odd pages, I've looked through those and I know that Joe McMonagle,
Potts, Paul Smith, Skip Atwater and maybe to a certain degree, Limbue Cannon
all sat and went through all of those documents and decided what would be released,
you know, help the CIA decide what would be released. So they were able then by removing,
redacting, omitting documents and allowing certain documents to paint a particular picture
of the unit and the unit successes to codify all of the all of the announcements that it wasn't all
that accurate and therefore it was it's we considered of no value. That insulates and
buffers the ongoing program where I'm sure they probably called people in and they probably took
it and put it into a a limb disc, a top secret limb disc or a secret limb disc where it's limited
distribution meaning that you, they read them the riot act and read them onto a whole another level
of class of security classification with much more severe consequences. They learn that lesson
often that if they keep downgrading, you know, the classification of something it's still seek
goes from top secret to secret and then it's secret but not really secret, you know,
and it just keeps going down and they don't change the code names and they don't do other things.
They leave people in the program for 15 years. All of this goes completely against counterintelligence
strategies. Counterintelligence strategies say that the reason code names are theoretically
supposed to be changed every six months to a year and the reason people are pushed in and pushed out
and locations because they don't want anybody that's looking for that unit to start tying people
places, code names, etc. and work to a place where they now know what that is. That's why
that's supposed to change and they stopped doing that. You know, they would change it,
change the code name every six years or something. Well, that's it's foolish. So I'm sure that what
they have done now is move that collection methodology and continue to use it only much
deeper and much more heavily secured and the people that are there learning and who are
serving in that capacity would never get away with what I got away with. They just won't next time.
They learned that lesson and I didn't do it to try to destroy the unit. I told the story because
I believe that what I experienced there changed my life and I believe that once I got over the
confusion of what was happening and learned how to live my life with that kind of knowledge that
it became a powerful tool for me and I thought and I wanted to have that shared. There was really
no other reason behind the doing of that. I just thought I would, I thought I knew I would probably
get spanked. I just didn't realize I would get spanked as hard as I got spanked. Right. So I'm
pretty sure that it would still be going. It would be very foolish for them to end that.
The amount of effort it takes to keep the lie alive is quite fascinating. Yeah. What was
Project Torn Image and how did you get catapulted into that? Ed Dames actually. Ed left the
remote viewing unit and went to Torn Image to be a researcher for them. We talked all the time
and he said, hey look, they're looking for, they're looking for a special ops officer
to head up their counter narcotics program. This is a point that when the DOD is really spinning
up their efforts in the war on drugs and this is when you're starting to see, you know,
like the development of Epic down in El Paso, Texas, which is a joint intelligence collections,
you know, center. So you got DEA and DOD and all these other federal law enforcement agencies,
everybody coming together. So it was a big effort and DOD was looking around for who can we get
to play in this. Now, so I went to this interview and, you know, some guy in playing clothes and I
was in playing clothes and, you know, he interviews me and, you know, he has my ORB officer record
brief. So he knows where I've been and what I've done and what my skill sets are. And so I get hired
and I process out of the remote viewing unit and I go to this building, not in Washington, D.C.,
but in another city. And it's probably well past this point now, but it's called Allied
Communications and it's not a military facility. It's a very secure skiff and in it there are
35 people. There are admin support guys that run things, finance guy, right, logistics, etc.
There's a commander, deputy commander, exo, but everybody's in playing clothes.
And everybody is what is called a great skiller. So to be there, you move
off the Department of the Army special access roster, the DASR. So I don't know if I told you this.
So I'm a special operations infantry officer. So my file, my personnel file is an infantry branch.
When I went to Royal Cape, the activity, right, the killer, the subject, the killer elite book,
my file, there's a DASR manager, Department of the Army special access roster. They go over
to an infantry branch and they say we want Captain Morehouse's file. He's being moved to DASR.
When that happens, they give the file, your file is no longer an infantry branch,
an infantry branch goes into your, where your file was or the DASR folks do and they type in their
SM not on file. So if somebody looks for you based on social number or your name and your rank,
just trying to find you in some way from some personnel center, you know, computer,
service member not on file. You are now gone off that record. And that's Department of the Army
special access roster. It goes into another little skiff in those days in the Hoffman building
and it's managed by special people. When that was still there when I went to Stargate or
Grill Flame when I was there. But when I moved to Torn Image, which was a strategic deception
unit and I'll define that. Now what happens is you move into the category called great skills.
Great skillers, you're referred to as a great skill. This is freaking freaky because now what they do
is your file is picked up by some Cramudgen inside some little tiny compound thing with like 15 foot
high fences and triple stand, you know, concertina wire all around them. They go to the DASR branch,
collect your file and then they take you your file into the DASR control building. I mean into the
great skills control building. And now you are issued a civilian ID card and you are instructed
that you are to tell family, friends, anybody else that you are not in the Army anymore. You are
now working as a government contractor, civilian contractor and they give you a rating, GS12 or
GS whatever. Yeah, I didn't do that. I mean, I didn't go home and tell my wife I resigned and
say sure as fuck wasn't going to tell my dad. I mean, I told him and he was like, no, no, you're not.
He goes, no, you didn't. What are you into now? So when I go there, they now are like, you don't
know anything about strategic deception. I sure don't. What is it? So here's the real generic
thing about a strategic deception. It has to be a lie, perpetrated, designed, perpetrated,
that can be sustained for up to 10 years. Longer is better, but up to 10 years. Give you an example.
Anthrax, an anthrax oral antidote or an anthrax, like an anthrax
preventative method, a pill. They will put that out there and they will put that out there because
and they will create, they will make the science up. They will create it. They have people who design
the medical science about how that works and everything about how this oral
antidote or preventative measure, how it keeps anthrax from killing a soldier.
They tell all battalion surgeons. They give them the instructions for use, all the supporting
literature, the research, the, you know, et cetera, et cetera. It's guarded, carefully guarded.
They don't want to let that out because they don't want the Soviet Union or China
who have those kinds of biological weapons. They don't want them to know. They push it forward
into all of the battlefield potentials like in, you know, in Germany, right? When the Soviet Union
is on the other side of the Berlin Wall, they push it all out there. They rotate stocks,
new lot numbers, new expiration dates and all this stuff, right? They put that out there.
It was aspirin. It was nothing but aspirin. And they have a wedding pharmaceutical company that
packages it in blister packs. They have the boxes, the instructions for use literature,
all of the medical literature, which is all ginned up and it's all bullshit and fake.
And it's thrown at them. It's amazing that, you know, physicians don't know because they don't
typically read that stuff. They have other things to do, but it's out there and soldiers
are walking around thinking that, oh, you know, we're going to be issued the anthrax antidote. So
just in case, you know, we, we can buffer ourselves with this oral antidote. The truth is it wasn't
real, but what it did do is it caused the Soviets to scratch their heads. It caused them to then
have to figure, are we going to have to reformulate? Is our anthrax now worthless? Are we going to have
to figure out some way about doing this or it's a deadly, it's a deadly toxin, but we caused them
to have to relook at it, to expend time, money, resources, personnel, years of research, trying
to figure out if what we're doing is real or if it's not. And we're very good at building
the, the medical literature supporting this to make them do that. They have to spend a lot of
time to figure it out, to unravel the lie. That's a strategic deception to do something like that.
And that's what the purpose of a strategic deception is. It's to unravel the intended target,
to make them exhaust themselves in trying to figure something out.
My mission was, that was given to me, was to develop a strategic deception targeting the
three major drug cartels in developing and importing cocaine into the United States. Medellin,
Kali, and then the other one, Ochoa or something like that. Not Ochoa. I can't remember what it was.
So that was my, that was my target. That was what I was supposed to be doing.
So what I want to say to the people listening here is I'm going to present this to you
as I would present the strategic deception. This means that part of what I'm going to say
is real and part of it is not real. And it's up to you to try to figure out the part that's real.
So I had to come up with a way to do this, and that meant that I needed to talk to smart people
in different areas to try to figure out, what am I going to target? How am I going to, because my
mission statement was top secret, lambda, and I was told that my job is to cause an inter-intra
cartel war. How the, am I going to do that? And what was the purpose of this war?
To stop the flow of cocaine, illicit drugs in the form of cocaine into the United States.
We're in the war on drugs. That's what we're about. Intercepting shipments that were coming in
on freighters welded into the double walls of freighters and hulls and fast boats and you name
it, right? It was coming in everywhere. It could. Tons of it all the time. This is the time, if you
look at the James Webb, there's a movie called Kill the Messenger. That actually happened,
and people should watch that, because this is the time when this is starting to happen.
And so I go to Los Alamos, and at Los Alamos, I talked to a botanist. I didn't even know that
Los Alamos had botanists. What year was this? This was 90. 90, okay. 89, 90. So I talked to a botanist
at Los Alamos, and at a recommendation of one of the guys in the unit. And in talking to the
botanist, I say, look, I don't know how to do this. I mean, but I need to put something together
that can be real and as real as we can make it. And I am told with this guy with his team all around,
this is a nice challenge. He said, let me tell you how this works. He goes, you step outside here
into the garden, and there are plant pathogens that are unique to the entire garden. He said,
but there are also, if I go to that plant, there are pathogens that are unique only to that plant.
They only live on that plant. So these can be bacteria, comocytes, fungi, viruses,
they can be a whole bunch of different things. Microscopic, a little bit bigger than microscopic,
they are there. So the idea was we needed to harvest cocaine plants, put them in these little
biospheres, we needed to bring them back. And they needed to examine each of these plants that
are grown in the hectares still in Colombia, but in different parts of Colombia, in the areas controlled
by the three different cartels. And to isolate a suite of organisms unique to each region,
and the hectares of the cocaine, of the coca plant being grown in that region.
Why did we want to find these pathogens? Because out of the pathogens and lying
above them, let's say you find that there are 10 pathogens unique to the coca plant,
slightly different in the different regions. Now the testing begins to try to find which
pathogen is most easily bioengineered, most easily trainable, most easily designed now,
or redesigned, to do something different than just be a plant pathogen.
A suite of organisms are isolated for each of the region. This suite of organisms are now
painstakingly bioengineered over a process of about six months of trial and error and trial and
error. Bioengineered to attack and destroy the psychoactive ingredient in cocaine, to go after
and break the molecular chain so that the coca when processed into cocaine is now inert. It can be
done. It can be done. And it was tested and it worked and it was tested and it meant that when
they tested cocaine, you know when they put it in a little plastic pouch and they shake it up and
if it turns blue, they're testing for metabolites. They're not checking for the psychoactive ingredient
in cocaine. They're checking for metabolites. That lets them know when it turns dark blue,
that's cocaine. This substance is cocaine. So this now meant that we had a substance that would render
cocaine once processed or even as, I'm sorry, as the leaf coming in, even before it is based
and paced, it can be rendered inert and they will never know that it is inert because there's no way
they can check that. If somebody throws a bunch of leaves in their mouth and chews it up, it'll
taste bitter and there may be some minimal effect out of it, but it will not be the psychoactive
effect that they're looking for on the other end of the distribution chain after it's been
processed with all the precursor chemicals like toluene, gasoline, kerosene and everything else
that they use to create it. So the next issue was how do we deliver it? So I was then introduced
at Los Alamos to somebody that worked in the area of micro-encapsulation.
So now the idea was utilizing encapsulation, micro-encapsulation, because in micro-encapsulation
you can build a micro-encapsulation mechanism that can be triggered based on time,
based on temperature, based on moisture, or based on dryness, anything. You can make that
happen. You can build a micro-encapsulation package so that if it touches steel, it opens up,
or if it touches wood, it opens up. It's a very designable process. And so in the micro-encapsulation
now, we wanted it to be able to drop into the soil and be part of that. And at the first sign of
moisture or at a certain point in time, this encapsulation was to open and it was to release
the pathogen, which would go directly to the root ball of the plant that it had, it was near it.
That's what the pathogen did. It was part of, it wanted the cocaine plant, the coca plant.
So that was all developed and the delivery mechanism was now going to be this. We knew
what each of the cartels had all kinds of things, vehicles, planes, helicopters.
And so knowing what the tail numbers and the paint schemes and the type of aircraft
that each of the cartels had in their inventory, we secured planes that were identical,
matched the paint scheme and the tail numbers, and outfitted them with spray nozzles like if you
were a crop duster on the trailing edge of the wings and underneath the belly of the aircraft.
And inside were tanks that were pressurized, that were filled with a micro-encapsulated pathogen.
And the idea was you would take a Medellin
plane with that marking and you would fly it over into the Cali cartel hectares
and you would spray their fields and go spray the next one and go spray the next one.
And you would spray the next one until you were empty and come back.
And then you might take the same plane and fly it over to the other cartel whose name I cannot
remember and introduce and spray that there. Then you would take another plane from Cali
and you would use that one and spray Medellin and go spray over here. Now they didn't know,
they weren't catching on to who it was, but what started to happen was they noticed and reports
were back that somebody is spraying us and it's the plane, it's Cali's plane doing this.
The trigger had not yet been pulled. The encapsulation was now
unfolding, breaking and these pathogens were now in the root balls of these plants
and they were designed to stay in the root ball, meaning it's self-inoculating. Every time it's
harvested and the plant grows back up again, the pathogens re-attack because they just continue
to populate and expand and re-inoculate the next plant. So it's harvested again, same thing.
We chemically washed kilos of cocaine to remove the psychoactive ingredient from cocaine because
this was the trigger. Now introduced into the supply train, let's just say the supply train
for distribution in Los Angeles or the distribution in Detroit,
you introduce hundreds of kilos of cocaine that are completely inert into those supply trains
and what happens is they test it, it's there, they think it's pure, they might even taste it or
snort it and there was a chance that some of them might turn around and go this is really bad
or it's been cut bad or something else but even if it was discovered immediately once it got into
the supply train and was thrown to the distributor there, this was now going, even if it didn't get
to the street but if it got to the street even better because now what would happen is as people
discovered that this was worthless, that it had, it was inert, it would begin an inert cartel war.
Up this distribution chain would be this revolt to the product that would end up
having people kill people and this was looked at and considered as a cost, a collateral damage to
doing this, to breaking this network apart, to put that in there so that trigger got pulled
and that fire started back the other direction. It did not take long then for what was happening on
the street and different distribution pathways for each of the cartels, for the cartels then to start
questioning why this was happening and then you'd have a few people that get leaked information
about the reason this is happening is because somebody is spraying the cocaine, the coca
plants and this process is happening in the fields, in the processing labs and that's where it's
happening. It is believed that this is one of the reasons why Pablo Escobar once he had reached
this point where he had to live in the prison of his own making, that he brought the colleague guys
over to his prison and confronted them with this and confronted them with the fact that
they now owed him money because of what they were doing. Of course that's been,
that's been flavored differently in some dramatic portrayals of this but he killed them.
He blamed them for that so now we have the inter and the intra-cartel war. We have all three cartels
fighting against each other from the leadership on down down to all the gunslingers and we have
the saccaros killing the other saccaros and you have the distribution chain consuming itself.
Wow. That went on for six months and the damage was severe enough that it was completely shut
down almost immediately. I tried to question why that was happening and what the justification for
it was and the deputy commander of Torn Image brought me over and said, you really are one
little naive prick, aren't you? He goes, you don't understand why this got shut down? He goes,
they don't want this to end. Right. They don't want this to end like that and that suddenly
and the damage and the collateral damage is not what they want but it became at least one part of
the downfall of those cartels led to the death of Pablo Escobar, the brothers that ran the
dead front by Pablo. I don't know what happened to the other one but eventually all of this
collapsed on itself so I felt like the deception, the mission was a success and then
all of that ability to do that was moved into Mexico so the war just migrates mission, you know,
the war migrates and the leadership changes and it's right back there again bigger than it was
before and it's right on our doorstep now but now it's the war as you expected it to be. It's
intercept, interdict, you know, seize, try to find, get to the head of the distribution etc. like
that all conducted by federal, state and local law enforcement and doing stuff at the DOD level
like that probably will not happen again but that's a strategic deception. Wow. Was this effort to
classify it? No. But I assume a lot of the major players are dead and gone now so it's
probably yeah yeah I mean I really only started telling the story probably within the last 10
years and I was doing this 30 years ago I mean in 90s right so and I left and went to commander
general staff college where I just tried to disappear out of all of that and I once tried to
actually pitch it as a fictional story in in Hollywood when I came out of the army and my
manager and my agent turned around and went oh you you know we have families you you're we're not
you know this was now 95 96 and they're like yeah fuck you we're not only like five years
after yeah they're like you we're not attaching our name to that and we're not gonna run you
around this town and you go there's probably somebody out there you know looking for you
and we don't want them looking for us so yeah get the we're not don't ever tell us that again
you know like this kind of thing we don't want to hear it so I never it never saw the light of day
and that's probably a good thing because they're probably right they're probably a lot of
people that might have done something I don't know so it ended up breaking the supply chain and
the distribution of the cocaine from these cartels into the U.S. and that's not what they want it
they want they want all roadways but it took a big chunk out of distribution into big cities because
if you take somebody let's let's say heroin for and you had Frank
the guy the movie that Frank Lucas Frank Lucas and Nikki Barnes right if you had Frank Lucas and
Nikki Barnes gunning for each other because the product that they bought through the distribution
process turns about out to be inert you're going to you're going to take the head off
those two big snakes and it's going to be somebody else that'll come in or try to come in
but you still caused a huge riff in there and a lot of people doubting and you know doubting
what they're getting and the price will go up right everything will happen and not in a good way
so it has a very definite destructive effect on those nobody said you know that
I nobody said in briefing and developing the program nobody said that it
you know you have to limit the destructive force of this or the destructive capability of that
nobody said that they were I don't actually think they thought anything would happen is what I think
I think I thought you know what's he gonna nobody had any bright ideas except this botanist
you know wow so I mean nobody really knew what to do and I just figured out how once we knew that
that could happen and how to get the biggest destructive effect out of the mission to cause
an inter-car inter-intra cartel war and it worked better than people thought it would work and
and I think people got very concerned I also think
that people got concerned about money and people got because you know let's face it
there are people in decision-making places that profit from that stuff by turning you know
their head the other way and now all of a sudden it's not just it's not just gangsters
that profit from that stuff it isn't again you know read read or watch kill the messenger
and then you know there are several other stories that parallel that and you'll you'll get an idea
for how scary this is and how far up it goes and how people shut that shit down when people
started to tell the truth about what they saw and you know James Webb never recovered from it
James or Jim he never recovered from it he actually committed suicide he never worked
he never worked as a reporter again because the CIA and other agencies that had their
tentacles into like the New York Times and New York Post and those kinds of things they
shot him down they discredited him and he told the truth he told absolutely the truth they reached
contacts in Colombia and other places that told him the truth about what it was and where they were
and how much money there was etc etc and where they were bringing it Los Angeles went apeshit
the black community in Los Angeles when he was reporting on what was happening because
their agency ties into bringing cocaine into the United States through Mina Arkansas right
and being pushed into into Los Angeles and being distributed in the black community where
freeway Ricky Ross was turning it into turning cocaine into crack cocaine cocaine
and distributing it and a huge chunk of the money coming back was going in to fund
the Contra effort Contras yeah yeah and that's when our good friend Billy Clinton was the governor
of Mina Arkansas indeed yeah indeed who actually who actually intervened with the state attorney
general when when the guy that was actually running the cocaine import into Mina
bailed him out when the every fucking law enforcement agency in Arkansas
and the government came after this guy and got him Barry Seale yep I actually the pilot yep
he ended up and he ended up of course being being killed by the Medellin cartel because
the Ochoa brothers I think I think welcome I yeah I actually had a guy in this podcast who was a
pilot I mean he wanted to be he grew up very religious and uh it was Georgia or Alabama and
he wanted to be a missionary pilot he ended up moving to um Santa Barbara working for the fire
department and then one day someone came by because he was a pilot he was a very good pilot he
flew planes all the time he owned his own plane he was a fucking fire broke firefighter and uh like
hey uh you want to make uh like 300 grand this weekend flying pot how do you say no go pick up
some pot in Mexico that escalated to do you want to make a million dollars on Friday bring in some
coke back and this guy Roger ended up hiring Barry Seale as his employee and he told the whole
story in this podcast it was fascinating and he he uh there was a story after uh Barry Seale got
busted Barry said Roger I need you to meet me at the restaurant at a restaurant to talk about some
stuff so they met at a restaurant in uh in Santa Barbara and they sat down at the table and Barry
was like very like nervous and then Roger was sitting there was like what do you got to say to
me Barry and Roger or Barry Seale looks around and then Roger looks around like this like this
since he's a bunch of guys like at tables by themselves he goes DEA agents and Barry Seale
goes every one of them and then he like put his hands over his face and just started crying the
DEA agent came over and sat at the table next to him and said to Roger said Roger you can either
fly to Miami first class with your wife tomorrow or you can fly there in chains it's up to you
oh man and he ended up not testifying he didn't testify against the against the Ocho brothers
or any of those guys and he ended up doing like I want to say it was like 40 years yeah man in
prison sentencing yeah and uh Barry got whacked because he's the one who snitched on everybody
yep wow yeah very dangerous game to be playing in and me and my you know my typical self with all
of that you know you you kind of take on this era of invincibility because you're a ranger and stuff
like that and you kind of think like I'm not worried but then you have these nights when
you're sitting there going like shit I probably should have really been worried you know that
that was a dangerous game to be playing and the only thing that you had that protected you from
that was the the classification of the unit and you know what it was all about and nobody could
ever put you together with anything because you're a civilian and but they told me one time and I
went to epic they uh they said the fact that you parked your car and got out and came in this building
they said they have better uh counter surveillance and better you know they have as as good as we've
got in fact better really your picture was taken when you showed up where you're going and probably
by this afternoon they will know who you are and they will know what your background is and they
will know if you have a family and they will know where your family is he goes this is what
we live under because they have billions of dollars to put into that and that's not our budget in
doing what they're doing there so I don't know if it's still that way but I would submit it I'm sure
it is I had a guy in here who's over he reports on all the cartels he lives right on the border of
Mexico and in Texas and he reports for a bunch of he's an independent journalist but he you know
does freelance work for a bunch of big news outlets like vice and business insider and
he has a lot of context in context inside of these Mexican cartels that he talks to and that he like
has very exclusive relationships with them and he found out recently he wrote a report I think it
was like in November that one of the cartels I think it was the Jalisco new generation cartel
is buying licenses to the military spy technology so there's people that are in the Mexican military
that are selling these licenses to the cartels and this technology is it's basically like what
the military used to track bad guys and all they have to do is type in a phone number or type in
someone's like social security number or address and they can live track anybody's phone and this
guy he met with them to confirm that this is real pull up the software right in front of him typed
in he's like let me try it so like my friend Luis typed in his buddy's information see if you can
track him live tracked him exactly where he was in California at that time the cartels have this now
and this was spy technology that was developed by Israel that is now used in Mexico I forget what
it was called with the name of Titan it was Titan software but there there the cartels are
are becoming a terrifyingly advanced man yeah they have the money they have the money to hire
you know X this and X that and bring them in and you have that you have you have X soldiers and you
have X officers and you know that come in there people that come out of the intel community
enticed by the money right because they'll pay them anything and there are a lot of people
to just look at this problem and problem and say the only way this is ever going to stop
is if Americans stop the consumption of these illicit drugs which is probably not going to
happen so as long as there is consumption there is going to be a way to supply and provide
and profit from that and it's it's a scary thing it is well David Morehouse thank you
so much for your time we just did about four hours yay that was fun for the Patreon people
we are probably not going to do a post show because it's latest but we did do a pre-show
before this we did some talking before the podcast started so go back and watch that on Patreon it'll
be linked below and then David where can people find your website and your videos and your books
all that stuff Davidmorehouse.org and you can get to that website that'll steer you to the
YouTube channel because I can remember the address for that but there's an official website and
official YouTube channel where this will be and everything else as well as with for you
so davidmorehouse.org perfect all right man thanks again and my pleasure good night world
drink go fuel go fuel baby
