Let's start this thing off by sort of giving you a soft introduction.
You're a theoretical physicist, been doing this your whole life.
You were contacted by the CIA in the 70s, is that right?
To work on some stuff with consciousness and flying saucers.
And flying saucers in the 70s.
And actually even a little bit before that, but that's a complex story.
Right, right.
And then your early childhood.
Can you explain what was going on in your early childhood when you got that phone call
that one night from who called you?
Yeah, well I should go back before that.
Because when I was about seven or eight, I guess my parents in Brooklyn got divorced
and I went to live with my maternal grandparents in the Bronx.
And my grandfather was working for the U.S. Army.
And he was just like a chauffeur.
He would drive out of the garment district, the quartermaster corps.
And he would drive these offices around, whatever they were doing, acquisition of material uniforms
in the garment district.
So I would go down there a lot.
And it was an interesting situation.
In fact, I spent a lot of time there.
And they gave me free reign of the place as a kid, you know, the 18-year-old kid.
I would run around.
They had all these great laboratories and they had cold weather lab and a hot weather lab
and this and stuff.
And I was like play there.
And then I sometimes would drive around with my grandfather driving the car, sitting in
the back of this army vehicle with these army officers, like talking.
And I was a bright kid, you know, they were like encouraging me to, you know, I had been
reading all the science-fiction pulp magazines coming out, 25 cents astounding, amazing stories.
And I knew about time travel and rockets to the moon.
I wanted to be a rocket engineer and build the rockets.
I was being encouraged by all that to do that.
And they also, I remember the subject of flying saucers came up.
So this is like maybe just a couple of years, three, four, at most five years after Roswell,
you know, actually less than that, three, four years after Roswell.
And then much later, I guess in the 90s, when the book by Colonel Philip Corso, the day after
Roswell came out, I opened the book and I look at the photograph and it's, you know,
like I recognize this, I can't be a hundred percent sure because I could be like manufacturing
a memory.
You can't tell, you know, this is something that happened over 70 years ago, right?
Right.
73, 74 years ago.
But I think it was Corso was the main guy who used to talk to me.
Corso.
Philip Corso, the guy who wrote, you know, who he is.
He wrote the day after Roswell, right?
Yeah. But do you know what it's about?
Do you know the story?
I haven't read it, but I've heard about it.
OK, OK.
Well, Corso is the guy who claims that he was at Roswell
and that he witnessed the aliens, you know, dead aliens, and that he saw the saucer
and and that he had them shipped to to write Paterson, I guess it was back then.
And then he also claims that later on he claims that this I think this general he worked for.
He was in charge of the foreign material.
He was in charge of all the retrieved material, crash material from from Roswell.
OK. And this I can tell you a lot more.
Maybe later we get into it because otherwise it'll be too disjoint if I just jump ahead
to like there's more stuff I know about the Roswell material.
I know a lot of stuff about that.
OK, so there we are.
I'm like, you know, a few years after Roswell happens,
I'm with these guys, I'm with the military officer, I think, or was somebody like him,
was somebody worked with him because they were talking about flying saucers.
I was being talked to, you know, flying saucers.
And then OK, so then I moved back with my mother when I'm about 13 in Brooklyn.
And that's when the phone call happened.
The the I'm alone.
And my mother somewhere out.
It's a summer night, a nice warm summer night, probably August.
And the phone rings and I pick up the phone and I hear, you know, first, you know,
I hear just like, like, you know, like coordinates, you know, it's like numbers,
like seven, six, you know, but in a strange voice, but very low.
And then I'm trying to listen, I don't quite, you know, can't get it.
And then the volume increases, volume increases.
And I hear also clunking, like switching circuits.
Oh, I also had I was reading a book at the time on the early computers,
mechanical relay computers called switching circuits, Bell laboratories.
So I'm hearing like the clunking.
So it's like it's like a computer.
OK, what I thought, you know, what people thought of computers
while 1953 hardly anybody even knew what a computer was, but I did, you know.
And so and then gets louder and then Stephen Hawking.
You know, Stephen Hawking, OK, well, you know what he sounded like
because he couldn't talk, the metallic voice.
It's the it's the Stephen Hawking voice in 1953.
OK, I'm hearing this right.
And it says and identifies itself as a computer
on board a flying saucer from the future.
Back from the future. OK.
Verbatim.
Well, I'm sort of paraphrasing.
But yeah, I mean, not paraphrasing.
You know, this is that it was on a flying saucer.
Yeah, it was says.
Well, I think it may.
I think it said it was on board a spacecraft from the future.
OK. It may not have said flying.
But you know, I was into flying saucers already by then.
So it was a space, but it's a time machine.
Time travel right away until it's time travel.
And they said they've that they are contacting several hundred.
I think they said even four hundred.
They heard the four hundred young receptive minds.
That they want to teach their technology to bear in mind
what's happening now with the congressional stuff.
They want to teach their technology.
And at first, I thought, you know,
because I was a pretty street wise kid and I thought it was a joke.
Because I'm not, you know, I'm not out of touch with reality.
I mean, how old are you?
I was 13, 1953, 13 years old.
And I'm trying to think who's OK, go OK, I got the joke, you know,
who's doing this.
And then something that occurs to me.
None of my friends of my age group.
Were as smart as me in terms of science.
You know, they weren't into all this stuff.
They were like normal kids.
I was an abnormal kid.
I was a nerd.
But these kids, you know, they're just all American, you know, back, you know.
And so it couldn't have been a kid.
And also they none of them had access to the kind of technology
that can make a cold metallic voice, right?
And I said, God, be an adult.
Now, this is like going through my mind, you know, and then so that could be dangerous.
You know, you know, maybe weirdos around.
And.
But then it said, so, you know, let it continue.
And it said I had to now tell them
out of my own free will if I wanted to participate in this project.
And then, you know, you ever see this thing with the like
a little devil on one shoulder and the angel on the other shoulder and say,
do it, do it, don't do it, don't do it.
You know, like I'm thinking and I'm thinking to myself, no.
I think, you know, internal dialogue, no.
But then I feel like an electric shock go from the base of my spine.
Is it back in my head here?
You're like, you know, like an electrical feeling.
And I hear myself saying, yes.
All right, this is interesting.
And then and then they say, oh, and they also said that I begin.
They said, good.
And now they said, I will begin to meet the others in 20 years.
So it's got to be times around what they tell me what's going to happen
in 20 years in the future.
Seventy three. Right.
So and then they said, then the voice says, go out on your fire escape
and we're going to send a ship to pick you up in 10 minutes.
All right.
So at this point, so I hang up the phone at this point, I'm I'm scared.
And I'm well, you know, excited to get you.
Yeah. And so I went down into the street.
It's a hot summer night.
This is New York.
This is Flatbush.
This is it's an Irish, German, Italian, Catholic,
they were the big church, the Irish bar, the Italian Baker,
the German bakery, where I got these Charlotte ruses, everything.
And it's brownstone and it's it's everybody's out.
You know, it's a warm, beautiful night.
Everybody's out on the street.
The mothers with their kids and the strollers.
It's a it's a whole scene out of like a Broadway musical, right?
And I had a gang.
You know, it's like my gang, I'm looking.
So I find I run, I find Neil and Norman Legata.
OK. Neil is is is my age, you know, 13.
And he's a strapping he's a strapping Italian kid.
You know, I mean, you know, he's like, you know, he's a strong kid.
And his little brother, Neil Norman, I'm sorry, Norman is his brother.
Who's like 10 years old, the two of them.
So they're part of my and then I run into my Winky.
Winky, who is a tough Irish kid and our mothers, you know,
was like, well, we grew up together and their mothers,
all the mothers knew each other and Winky.
He's like he's like a price.
He's a really tough Irish kid, like he'd say, punch me in the stomach.
You know, he had the abs, you know, punch me, you know, and and he when I went
to Cornell at age 16, he joined the Marines.
OK, he was in the Marines.
He was in Vietnam again.
Well, no, this is before Vietnam.
No, Korea. Wait a second.
Those are before Vietnam.
This is 56. Yeah.
OK. This is. Yeah.
This is right after Korea.
So and he then when he got out of the Marines, his real name is Al Bro.
And he became a very well known New York City NYPD homicide detective.
OK, I don't know if he's still alive.
I mean, all right.
So these are my so we all said the flying source is coming to get me,
coming to pick me up.
And, you know, so the four of us kids, we go up to my place
within the 10 minute period, and that's it.
Nothing ever happened.
Nobody showed up.
No, they didn't show up as far as I know.
All right.
So did you think about that after?
Did you think like maybe was I being pranked?
And I forgot, you know, basically forgot about it, right?
I forgot about it.
And then so then what happens?
But then remember, I was with all this army stuff
happening before I got back to Brooklyn, right?
So then I'm going to high school.
And I get involved with this kid, Johnny Glowgauer,
who's a year younger than me.
And he's a quiz kid that's on that radio show, The Quiz Kids.
And he also was, went to Juilliard.
Do you know anything about Juilliard School of Music?
Is for very talented kids in music in Manhattan.
So he was a student at Violin at Juilliard.
He was a quiz kid on the radio.
You know, he's kind of famous.
And he was also reading St.
Jean Shieldtensor calculus.
He's 11 years old, 12 years old, which is, you know,
the mathematics of Einstein's general theory of relativity.
OK. And and he, in fact, they took him the Quiz Kids show.
There's a whole big thing in the newspapers
that they take this boy, Jean.
He's like a most sort of, you know, he was also at Juilliard.
He was he was famous, a celebrity, basically.
And they took him to meet Albert Einstein.
You know, this is 1953.
Einstein died like two years and 55.
And so I'm the only kid that Johnny can talk to.
You know, he's, you know, and and so during middle school,
basically, I spent a lot of time, me and Johnny.
You know, hanging out, talking science, all that stuff.
He would be sort of teaching me tensor calculus kind of right.
And and then there's this other kid
whose name I forget, whose father was the physics professor
at Brooklyn College, which is right next door, right?
That's my neighborhood.
We're very close to Brooklyn College
and Midwood High School, where Woody Allen went.
And so we would also spend by this time,
I was already in high school, like a freshman, my my skip the year.
I guess it was sophomore.
You know, they skipped us through.
And so we would also be hanging out.
Johnny Golgawa, this other kid, I wish I could remember his name,
but his father was a professor,
was the professor of physics at Brooklyn College.
So we hang out in the physics laboratory at Brooklyn College,
you know, playing around or whatever we were doing.
And then and then there's this other crazy kid named Robert Bashlow.
Robert Bashlow was about my age.
Russian, you know, Russian-Jewish, you know, that man.
And he was also a Juilliard piano.
And he he also was making thousands of dollars
at the age of 13 in the coin market in New York, Manhattan, rare coins.
She always had money, you know, we had whatever money you want.
This ice cream, what that one, you know, and he he could play anything.
He he would we would hang out in his parents
in his basement, they had a Steinway piano.
He'd be playing Mozart, Scalati Bach, you know, flawlessly,
you know, like a concert pianist. Wow. OK.
So one day he says, hey, listen, I'm going to meet this guy.
So Johnny Golgawa, me and Robert Bashlow takes us up to
Germantown, 86th Street in Lexington area, Germantown.
You know, the beautiful apartment house.
And we meet this guy who's about 30 years old named Walter Breen.
Hey, Walter Breen, young guy and Walter Breen.
So we start hanging out a lot going up, you know, weekends.
Walter Breen. Now, it turns out Walter Breen.
Now, this is interesting.
Walter Breen is running a program for gifted children.
Run out of Columbia University by Professor William Sheldon.
Just OK, if the studying, you know, so he's gathered.
So Breen's apartment, beautiful apartment, actually,
it was a mess because they didn't clean.
But, you know, he had sculptures and books.
It was, you know, he was a real intellectual place.
And people would come from I ran from all kinds of people would show up there.
It was kind of like an enriched atmosphere and they would talk.
It was like a salon.
And we were part of that scene.
And then but at times, these guys in black suits,
like the men in black, we come up from Albuquerque, from New Mexico.
And they would lecture us.
This is the McCarthy era.
This is the Eisenhower's present.
And they were lecture us on, you know, the Russian threat,
the Soviet threat communism and how it's important we learn physics.
And they were talking about flying saucers.
We want you to figure it out.
OK. And then also they would test us.
For psychic powers, they would do like run, you know, like the different tests
to see if we could move, move objects with our minds right out of X-Men,
right of X-Men.
And Walter, Walter didn't do too much.
But, you know, he was like, what was like was like the scout master.
OK. For these.
And. And then so.
So this was going on.
My whole high school.
Also, I was in the Civil Air Patrol.
You know, Air Force kid that sort of, you know, flying airplanes,
Griffiths Air Force Base, Civil Air Patrol for kids.
And. And then.
So when it came time to go to college.
Walter, they wanted me to go to the University of Chicago.
They had some connections there.
And they had this one hundred book program.
Who wanted you to go there?
Well, the Breams, you know, the people from Columbia, you know, from this, this.
You know, the school, this X-Men kind of thing, whether they were.
Did they have a name for that program?
Well, no, there's OK.
There's a guy you may want to talk to him.
There's a guy named Bruce Vogel.
He's a little bit younger than me.
He was part of that program.
I get later, I think, you know, after I had already left it, he was part of it.
But he's the literary.
He has all of the Walter Breen manuscripts.
So he knows a lot about it.
And if you wanted to actually do some investigations,
probably went to I'll give you his phone number, you call him.
And so. And then.
Sorry to just going back to you were hanging out with Walter
and those guys, those quote unquote men in black were showing up.
Yeah. What when you talk to those guys
who showed up from Albuquerque, did you ask them who they were, where they were from?
Remember, we were kids.
Well, we don't, you know, we're just we're innocent kids.
So we don't know what the.
Well, no, they just told you that they said.
No, no, what you can see, they were like official like FBI guys.
So, yeah, I mean, they were in.
You know, they were both, you know, the, you know, the way the FBI dresses,
they were dressed like that.
And I remember we walk around, we go out to eat with them.
And they I remember one guy,
you know, Walter is with some other kids in the front.
And I'm just talking to this one guy.
He's talking to me about patriotism and, you know, defending the country
and all this kind of, you know, kind of pep talk, anti-communist kind of pep talk.
Right.
And and I did remember one time they're saying, they're saying,
they're saying like a critique to say, I heard one of the guys say, Hey, Walter,
why can't you get these kids into more into the the arts?
Because it was stuff about sculptures and music and some of them were.
And Walter was saying, well, no, they only want to do science, math.
OK, so there was, oh, Alan Greenspan was part of the group, not not my group.
He's in an early version.
Alan Greenspan, be the head of the Federal Reserve.
OK, wow.
Other guys, Robert Salome, a lot of a lot of people,
they were like, obviously, creating cadres.
Like for the ruling class, you know, for the intelligence community
to sort of like take over as part of the, you know, this is some kind of project.
And I think I think they were from Sandia,
but I don't know if it was called Sandia Corps, which is the nuclear weapons lab.
OK, you know, from the Manhattan Project. OK.
I don't know if at that early, if it was actually called
Cindy, but whatever was left from the Manhattan Project,
that's what they were these guys, I think, were connected with.
Got it. All right.
And OK, so it comes time for me to go to college.
I was 16, almost 17, you know, my senior year at Midwood.
And this they wanted me to go to Chicago
because they had some program at Chicago.
But I also applied.
My mother didn't want me to go that far.
I also applied to MIT and Cornell.
And I got into all three.
But my mother said, go to.
Well, Cornell is closer to New York, 240 miles.
And also there was a beautiful girl, Nellie Gottlieb,
who was going to Cornell, you have a high school kid who said,
Jack, why don't you come to Cornell?
I was kind of in love with it, you know, smitten with her.
She was quite lovely and side to side to go to Cornell.
And they were kind of unhappy.
Walter's group, they were they were really disappointed.
They didn't go to Chicago.
So they had some reason they wanted me to go to Chicago.
I don't know. I'll never know what it is.
Well, Bruce Vogel may know what it was.
So in any case, so.
Time for me to go to Cornell.
Oh, yes. And Walter said.
He had written a ten page analysis of me.
You know, for my colleges, you know, of college entrance.
They they arranged for me to go to these schools. OK.
And I did say he did say, you know, in the ten page thing,
I did say, well, you know, you're young and you're emotionally immature.
But you could be another Isaac Newton creating an entire new physics.
That's what I was told. OK.
I'd like to actually see that report, you know.
In fact, this guy, Bruce Vogel, is looking,
trying to see if there's anything in Walt's writings
where he talks about that period, you know,
because, you know, right.
And so OK, but there's another strange thing about this guy, Walter Breen.
He was in the Army Air Force.
In New Mexico in 1947.
Around Roswell. Right. OK.
And in 1947, he was in it.
He was in a plane crash.
Now, he I mean, you know, was it a plane crash
because of the flying because of the flying saucer?
He never said that.
He never said that. OK.
But he was in a plane crash and he was hurt
and he was in the Army Hospital for many months, almost a year, maybe.
Wow. OK.
But he said as a result, after a plane crash, he suddenly got
he's got like he got superpower. Intellect.
Seems to connect with the crash, which suggests that it was connected
with the flying saucer incident, right.
And he said that.
And in fact, you could talk to Bruce Vogel knows a lot more about this.
And he said he and then he was able, I guess they had a correspondence
course for if you're in the military, he was he did four years
of college undergraduate work from Johns Hopkins University
in one year and got a bachelor's degree at the end of one year
for four years of work because he could do his IQ was like unmeasurable.
Wow. OK. OK.
And apparently all the kids that they selected, you know,
had to be, you know, a certain level. OK.
So there's a, you know,
there's a flying saucer connection right then and there with this guy who sends me.
OK. All right.
So I go to Cornell and my professors are the guys who built the atomic bomb.
If you go to see the film Oppenheimer, these are up.
There's Hans beta, Philip Morrison, Kenneth Grayson, you know,
all these a lot of these guys are in the movie.
I'm told I haven't seen the movie yet.
I'm going to see it in London in about a month when I go back to London.
And and there we are.
So there I'm with the guys who built the bomb.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms
with only a fraction of the caffeine is a cup of coffee.
You get energy without the jitters or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose.
Cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot chocolate like flavor.
Lion's mane to support focus.
Cordyceps to help support physical performance and both chaga and
reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about Mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their
time to find all the perfect ingredients to develop a product
that helps you feel better every single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments
as they believe the country is in a mental health epidemic and sees psychedelics
as useful tools for individuals with depression, PTSD, anxiety
and other mental health experiences.
So get 15 percent off and a free frother by using my link below mudwater.com
forward slash Danny and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15 percent off.
That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny and use the promo code Danny at checkout
to get 15 percent off is linked below.
Now back to the show.
I was also a singer.
I was about to, you know, I had a musical side to me too.
And at in high school, I was in the old city chorus.
Like, for example, we would sing at Madison Square Garden
with the Arturo Tuscagnini conducting, you know, a thousand kids
from all the high schools, you know, and and then so when I got the Cornell,
I got into like not my freshman year, my sophomore year.
I got involved with the Cornell, Gilbert and Sullivan Society,
Savoyard Society, and I had a voice teacher
from England, Keith Faulkner.
And so I remember he used to go to his studio
and maybe give me voice lessons, stuff like that.
So one day I'm there and there's this libretto on his the piano there.
And his close friend was Benjamin Britten, a famous English composer.
And Benjamin Britten is like 1957 or so, maybe 58, I guess 57 around there.
And and Benjamin Britten had just written this children's opera,
Noah's Flutter, about Noah's Flood, you know.
And so I was in the Keith produced it.
I was I was in the American premiere of the Noah's Flutter opera.
I was Ham, as a kid, Ham, the son of Noah.
You know, it was the American premiere of this of this opera by Benjamin Britten.
But what's also interesting about this is that years later,
OK, when Keith when Faulkner left Cornell, he went back to England.
He was head made head of the Her Majesty's Royal College of Music in London.
OK, but I only found out fairly recently,
last few years I checked on Wikipedia, Faulkner, he died.
Turns out during World War Two,
he was the first Royal Navy pilot, combat pilot off the carriers.
And he was an ace.
He shot down a lot of, you know, in the Battle of Britain.
He was like shot down a lot of, you know, Messerschmitts.
You know, so he was he was a hero, a hero.
OK, so all these guys now now it turns out now.
All right, so let me jump.
Why am I talking about this?
There's a movie called The Good Shepherd.
Yeah, you told me about this last night.
OK, all right. So the movie.
And I told you so, but for the audience, the point is that,
OK, back then, especially road scholars,
very tight connection between the British intelligence establishment
and the American intelligence establishment and the Ivy League schools,
Ivy League schools, white privilege, very elite.
You're like, when I got the Cornell, we were met by a fresh camp that night
by Governor Averell Harriman, who was the governor of New York,
who had been like the ambassador to the Soviet Union.
And we were given a pep talk
how we're the future leaders of the country, free and responsible,
all this kind of stuff. OK, the the central.
OK, the origin of the Central Intelligence Agency. Very interesting.
In the film, The Good Shepherd.
Uh, which is about James Jesus Angleton, right?
Whose grandson is a friend of mine, who I work with.
James Angleton, the third. All right.
Who's in Florida, you know, in your place. OK.
So in any case, in the movie, which has Matt Damon
and I think the Nero's in it.
The Nero plays some spook, the CIA spook. OK.
And and the opening scene of this movie
is at Yale.
It's a Gilbert and Sullivan production at Yale.
Then I was the lead tenor of the Cornell Gilbert and Sullivan Society,
which is directed from England, from the Doryly Cart, from English.
It has English and the Doryly Cart.
Those people are connected with the British Intelligence
Establishment, as well known if you go look at all of some.
In fact, the Central Intelligence Agency
was was created by M.I. Six, by the British Intelligence.
His whole history of that, you know, back before, you know,
at the beginning of World War Two.
The Americans and very naive Americans didn't have much of an intelligence.
So the CIA. The OSS.
Yeah, the OSS. Yeah.
This whole I could go into the history of the OSS.
Oh, and I should also mention, you know, that I'm mentioning.
The project at Columbia University.
Was financed by a guy who was connected with the OSS, Eugene McDermott.
Eugene McDermott, who's like this van of a, you know, he was, in fact,
one of the founders of Texas Instruments, was a close friend of William Sheldon,
was funding all this stuff to create, you know, the Genius Kids
for the military industrial complex.
You know, all right, all right, OK, so it's all it's very tightly connected.
So in the case in the opening of the movie, The Good Shepherd,
Matt Damon is dressed in he's playing Buttercup, you know, female,
because it was all male, right?
Like the Elizabethan Theatres, you know, the men played the women.
And they still do that Bohemian Grove, by the way.
And they do. Yeah.
And well, because the men are not it's a men's only club.
They allow women, you know, special occasions, what they put on shows.
And, you know, yeah.
But the same as, yeah, this was, you know, this is a skull in bones.
The same skull, you know, same.
It's a secret society.
That whole thing. Right.
All right. The Illuminati, the whole thing.
All right. And and so in the movie.
After Matt Damon is backstage, you know,
what is one of his English professors, like Keith Faulk, that was with me.
And basically recruits them into the into the clandestine services.
This is how and this is this setting up.
The Brits are actually setting up what they what the OSS and the war starts
later, the OSS and there's a whole story about that.
But it's too, you know, tangential.
So the Brits are setting up the OSS with a wild Bill Donovan.
There's a whole story I know about that.
And and eventually becomes a CIA.
And Angleton, you know, is one of the early guys.
He was the OSS and creating the Central Intelligence Agency.
James Jesus Angleton.
James Jesus Angleton, yeah, whose grandson, you know, I know.
So when you were at Cornell,
you were working with the guys who were a part of the Manhattan Project.
Hans Beta, Phil Morrison, Kenneth Griesen.
And what was your Wilson, you know?
And oh, yes. And the important thing there is that.
The intelligence agencies were, you know, were there watching everything.
Right. Because, for example, one of my close friends in Gilbert and Sullivan
was Ronnie Pyls, whose father was Rudolph Pyls,
who I think maybe in the movie there, one of the top,
I guess, a German Jewish physicist who escaped from Hitler
and was in England then came, was part of the Manhattan Project.
But Ronnie was living, Ronnie's older than me.
So in the early 1940s, he was like eight, nine years old.
And his roommate in his father's house was Klaus Fuchs.
Klaus Fuchs was an assistant,
brilliant English physicist, well, also German, I guess,
was the assistant to his father, Serudo of Pyls.
They became Rudolph Pyls.
And so it was Klaus Fuchs, who gave the allegedly
gave the secret of the atomic bomb through the Rosenbergs to Joseph Stalin.
OK, so, of course.
And Ronnie's in the Gilbert and Sullivan Society with me.
He's in the chorus.
I mean, like a lead, you know, and we were very close friends.
So and he was actually living at Hans Bader's house.
So Bader's a key character in the movie Oppenheimer.
So, of course, you know, and plus
that this was all the time in the middle of the thing,
whether Oppenheimer was going to lose his security clearance.
You know, this is all happening around me.
You know, all my professors, they were very upset, you know, because,
you know, because they didn't like Edward Teller.
And these are all guys who are very close to Oppenheimer.
And and like Phil Morrison, one of my undergraduate advisors,
he was under investigation by Joseph McCarthy,
the House on American Activities Committee for being a communist agent,
being a Soviet agent.
So, of course, Cornell was infiltrated by the CIA and by the Brits and everything.
You know, there's all the middle is kind of Cold War thing going on right around me.
And we were, you know, with the guys building the atomic bomb.
So, of course, the intelligence agencies are going to be keeping close
watch on everything that's going on at Cornell in that period.
Obviously, you know, they were, I don't know if they do it today.
Today, they're not as small as it used to be back then.
And then how long, how long did it take after you started going to Cornell
and working with these guys that were involved in the Manhattan Project?
How long did it take for the CIA to contact you directly?
Well, overtly, no, they never did back then.
They never did back then.
I was still a kid, man, I was 18, 19, 20 years old.
And and then let's see.
So then what happened?
So, OK, so I kind of had a tempestuous.
I went to I went to Brandeis.
What's Brandeis? Brandeis at that time.
This is after graduating Cornell, graduate school.
I could have gone to Stanford.
Leonard Schiff, the head of the physics department at Stanford,
actually called me up in Ithaca through Hans Beta and invited me to go to Stanford.
But I was married at the time.
I was married to the president of the Gilbert and Sullivan Society.
And, you know, we didn't feel like want to want to go that far.
And I got what's called the title for National Defense Fellowship to go to Brandeis.
Brandeis was a brand new campus
created by the rich Jewish money, but closely connected with Harvard
and Boston University and MIT, you know, Waltham, Massachusetts.
And it was a brand new campus.
And I got a big fellow, you know, a lot of money to actually go there.
So and also my wife was given a fellowship to go there.
So we went to Brandeis.
And but it was really part of the, you know, we'd go to classes
and go to lectures at Harvard and MIT.
It was everything was kind of like connected.
You know, it's like, I guess, like Caltech and UCLA and right.
The Clamon College and stuff like that.
It was all, you know, fairly close network.
And and then what happened?
So then I.
Oh, yes. All right.
Well, now we're going to get in some of the physics.
Now, this is important because last year.
Guys who I know, Alan Aspey and John Clouse and also Anton Zellinger,
who I don't know, we got from Austria, got the Nobel Prize
in physics for quantum entanglement.
OK. All right.
So now we'll go back the summer of 1958, back at Cornell.
It's a summertime and I don't want to go back to New York.
It's summer and I'm offered a job being the night operator
of the Cornell electron, one billion electron volts, synchrotron
at the Newman Laboratory of Nuclear Studies at Cornell
to operate the thing at night.
You know, like a pet.
And so I take that job and there's not much to do at night.
You know, and it's comfortable.
It's a big council and they have actually a shower
and there's like a cot I can rest, you know, just have to be there.
Like the night watchman, something, you know.
But I'm reading this book.
It gave me time.
This book called Quantum Theory by David Bohm,
who had worked with Einstein at Princeton.
Bohm had been at Berkeley with Oppenheimer in the 30s,
along with Philip Morrison, another my Cornell professors.
OK. And and.
Because Bohm was considered to be at the time
the heir to Albert Einstein, he was considered to be very bright.
OK. And he was at Princeton working with Einstein.
Right. And when he was as he was
the young assistant professor, there's a lot of political stuff
that I'll just skip over that because he was involved
with the Oppenheimer, the communists and southern McCarthy
wanted to investigate him.
And so there was a lot of political turmoil going on there.
This is around 1950, 51.
And Bohm was teaching the course in Quantum Theory
based on what's called the Niels Bohr-Kopenhagen interpretation,
which is kind of the that was like the main.
That was the thing that Oppenheimer, Oppenheimer had gone to,
you know, learn with Bohr and stuff like that.
And so I was reading the book, the book I was reading in 1958.
Now, the summer of 58.
This book was from David Bohm's lecture notes
when he taught at Princeton and it was the traditional
and beautifully written book.
Bohm was not a good lecturer.
He didn't say he was kind of very shy,
but he was a very, really good, clear, right and good, right.
And yeah. So I'm reading the book.
And in the book, there were two chapters that stuck out to me.
One was a chapter in which the quantum waves,
so-called these quantum waves, you know, quantum wave function,
is likened to the mind wave, like the mind.
If the mind was a field, was a physical field, be a quantum wave.
That's the idea.
And this is an idea which Niels Bohr first had
at the beginning of the 20th century, when they who was creating Quantum Theory
because Niels Bohr, I think his father was a psychologist
and he was involved with all these philosophers of mental stuff
and the consciousness, all that stuff.
So the connection of quantum waves to the mind and conscious processes
was already part of the very beginning of Quantum Theory.
And David Bowman, his textbook, Quantum Theory, the Dover publication,
points out this whole chapter on the he calls it the analogy
between quantum phenomena and mental processes in the brain.
Can you give me for myself and for people listening,
can you give me a very sort of general idea
of what Quantum Theory is, like for the layman to understand?
OK, basically it's this. OK.
I'm going to make the I'm going to use the ball, David Bowman's analogy.
OK. Mind, matter, right?
Mind, matter, to state duality, mind and matter.
According to Bohm and Niels Bohr in a very rough, I'm being very rough now.
Very upset. The mind is this quantum wave function.
You hear now about quantum computers?
OK, quantum computers.
And they operate on atoms, right?
Yeah, they could or even yes, or the electrons, you know, it's small.
That's yes, but but it's like a wave thing.
It's like a it's like a it's a it's an information field.
It's an information.
It's like a wave as opposed to a particle.
OK, has very it's a wave that's very strange properties.
OK, and in the book, in the Bell,
Bohm book, he points out certain properties of our consciousness
correspond to these quantum waves, these weird, spooky properties of these quantum waves.
That's like they're like pure information.
So the point is basically we just make the.
The intuitive guess the mind is a physical field
like the electromagnetic field, our minds and our brain is a physical field,
but it's a it's a it's a quantum wave.
OK, it's a quantum way, which is kind of pure.
And let's put this way, it's in the universe itself.
Is split into into matter and mind with a mind.
All the quantum properties of the universe are the intrinsically mental
properties of reality.
Right now, Jack Sarfati is a quantum wave.
And Danny is a quantum wave.
Stephen's a quantum wave.
We are quantum waves, but they're what are called giant quantum waves.
So it's kind of like superconductors and superfluid.
The suit, you know, what we are by law, we are room temperature,
superconductors, organic molecular superconductors.
And what's talking to you now, I'm I'm a wave form.
I'm like this come, but this giant wave form, that's my mind.
That's meant to my mind, which is interacting with the electrons
and the molecules of the atoms of the brain.
This is a two way street.
OK, so my.
Actually, it's technically it's called the further condensate, but that's another
we know exactly. OK.
Let me just jump ahead.
This is very nonlinear, but, you know, we will go as as as it comes in 1975.
Late 75 up on the top of Nob Hill here, where we had this.
This facility that Lawrence Rockefeller was funding us.
OK, you know, from the Rockefeller brothers.
Mm hmm.
And with this guy named
with with this guy, George Coopman,
young guy older than me.
Well, no, about my age, I guess, maybe a little.
Any case, he's he's like an army spook.
See, I spoke.
He comes from a wealthy family in Connecticut that connect.
He's connected with the New York Times, the Salzburgers.
He's like a cousin of Salzburgers.
You know, and he's a he's a he's also running.
He ran a defense contractor called Inns Group down in Irvine, California.
Is it in his group? Yeah, Inns Group.
And they had army contracts, army tank command.
You have Air Force and he's funding us.
He's one of our funders.
This is in the how the hippie saved physics.
You know, Dave.
David, hippie saved physics. Right. Right. OK.
David M.I.T.
Professor wrote a book about this whole period.
And I'm up there with this guy, Saul Paul Sirag.
When this right across from the from the Grace Cathedral,
you know, the Episcopal Cathedral and George says,
Jack, you know, the CIA.
Was formed because of the flying saucer, Roswell crash.
That's what he said. OK.
You know, one of the reasons the CIA was formed from the USS
because they considered a threat.
And I know this is true because I know James Jesus.
I know from James Jesus Angleton's grandson
that James Jesus Angleton from the USS,
one of the early pioneers, the CIA,
was very scared of the flying saucer phenomenon.
And he had all the all the stuff.
I could tell you the whole story about that.
What evidence do you have?
Is there that he was actually aware of the UFO phenomenon?
Well, from his grandson.
I'm told that by his grandson.
He just told you that?
Or did he actually have like notes and documents that he?
Well, that's a whole other story.
It turns out all the nuts was up.
But yeah, that's a whole story that when his.
OK, when James Jesus, there were three generations of CIA here.
Right. There's James Jesus Angleton's the grandfather.
And there's a whole sort of side story, which I won't go into now.
And then his son.
My friend's father.
The second angle to the second.
And all three of them, James, he's got them into the CIA.
So there's three generations of CIA guys, Angleton related to Angleton.
This is my understanding.
When James Jesus Angleton died.
All the Angleton papers went to the son.
Including all the UFO file.
OK. And then when my friend's father died.
My friend, then these papers were locked in one of those storage units
in Miami, you know, he's allowed to just have them.
Well, I don't know.
Maybe he wasn't allowed, but he had them.
Trump had them, too.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't know what this is.
I don't know what the classification.
But he had them legally and not legally, but he had them.
OK, at least so.
That's my understanding.
I don't know firsthand.
I only know second hand from the grandson.
All right, the story told to me.
OK. OK.
So then when my friend, when my friend, Jim.
Goes to the storage unit to get the papers because he's taught.
Yeah, apparently the fed said they said the federal agents came in
and they took everything.
It was empty.
But right after his father died, his father was in that they were all.
You know, that was retired from who knows if they retired, but, you know, OK.
So and he only had a few things that, you know.
But this is this is how I met the grandson because of the flying.
Because I'm into flying.
So that's how I that's how we all connected.
That's the common connection.
Right. All right.
So I believe this.
So and it also fits in with what Kubin said.
Jack, the CIA was formed because of Roswell.
And there are two things the CIA wants to know.
And also the Defense Department.
One, how does consciousness work?
And this is all in that book.
How the hippies say physics.
Yeah, MIT professor, Harvard PhD.
You know, he's a he's a big full professor in charge of the science,
technology, stuff at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Go talk to him, David Kaiser.
He was here sitting here just like you, you know.
And how is he now?
What? How old is David Kaiser?
Oh, I don't know.
He's in his forties.
Well, he's older than you.
His baby is 50.
Oh, OK. Because this was like 10.
Yeah, he's probably he's probably late forties, early fifties.
He had young children.
OK. And and you should go.
Yeah, you should have the interview.
And so they say, we want to know how does
consciousness work? And that's a whole big story.
The whole that's what the book's about.
There's videos about that.
Oh, by the way, there's also a Nova.
I'm in the Nova on on how they be
saying there's a Nova thing, PBS Nova and the best.
They show my picture twice, but they don't mention my name.
Screw that.
I'm like, well, you know, I'm kidding, but you know, but they should.
Yeah, they don't mention my name, but I'm there.
You said my image is there.
But, you know, without not being identified twice.
And so. And so.
So George is saying it's around Christmas time, 75.
And Saul Paul Sarag was I thought Fred Wolf was there,
but he wasn't there apparently.
But you could this guy, Saul Paul Sarag is still alive.
You should actually interview him.
He knows a lot.
And George says, yeah, CIA was created because of flying sources.
And we wanted.
And there's the power of all this weird stuff connected
because they have telepathic communication
and all that stuff, right?
And and so CIA wants to know, how does consciousness work?
Physics, the physics of consciousness, right?
How does it work?
That's why Rockefeller is funding, paying for us.
And so was this guy named Werner Erhard
and these guys from Stanford, you know, us.
And and how did the flying sources work?
So those are the two things I was basically pulled out of academia
to work on this, which I've been doing for 50, 60 years.
OK, this is what they want to know.
And now we see now it all makes sense because of what's happening.
You understand now it's this is real.
There's not quite this is real.
The skeptics are, you know, we you should have me on maybe
sometime with skeptics and, you know, let's have a debate on all this stuff.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's a reality war going on.
So how old are you when they pulled you out of the university?
Well, well, a little bit earlier, actually, before that, I was
like 1970, 1969, 1970, early 71.
Sixty nine, seventy one.
They pulled you out of the university.
OK, well, wait, wait, OK, well, I have to.
OK, these are a lot of flashbacks, right?
These are doing flashbacks.
Let's let's go back a little bit.
I have to. I was at Brandeis. OK.
Oh, yes. And I was.
And I had told you I was reading the book on quantum entanglement. OK.
Which they got the Nobel Prize for in 19 and in twenty twenty two,
Nobel Prize for all this stuff I was reading back in 1958. OK.
But hardly anybody knew.
People at Cornell did not know really about entanglement.
They didn't even know I would start to Einstein, Podolsky,
Rose, even Hans Bader really wasn't into it.
These guys, it was considered some kind of fringe thing.
It wasn't mainstream at all.
So I was just because David Bohm was considered a little bit eccentric, too.
And even Einstein, Einstein, boy, even though I said it was so great,
he would sit a little bit there.
Einstein, you know, he's, you know, he's, he's doesn't believe in quantum mechanics.
There was all this, all this stuff going on.
So I was like carrying the torch already at 1950.
I'm 18 years old, 19 years old about API and quantum entanglement.
This is really important stuff, man.
What's going on? Because it sounds weird, spooky, you know,
and I could see the connections with consciousness and telepathy and all this weird stuff.
OK. So I get to Cornell.
I'm sorry, I get to Brandeis from Cornell.
It's like 1961 and I'm, I'm in the library
and I'm reading a journal called The Reviews of Modern Physics.
And there's a paper called The Tau Theta Puzzle by a guy named David Inglis.
And he starts talking about EPR.
Just what it was I had read.
What does that stand for?
Einstein-Badowski-Rosen experiment, 1935, where they predict entanglement.
Just back in 1935, it was the Einstein-Badowski-Rosen paper, entanglement.
They also did another paper where they did about wormholes, see the two things.
You know, I don't know if there's this guy, if you heard about E.R.
equals EPR, about the big thing, the big problem is quantum gravity.
How do you relate quantum mechanics to gravity?
That's called the quantum gravity problem.
That's the big, you know, that's Hawking and Penrose just got the Penrose
just got a Nobel Prize recently, too.
You know, all stuff, you know, black holes and the evaporation of black holes.
That's the frontier of physics today.
And I was already there with the entanglement part back in 1958.
So it's now.
So I read this paper in 1961 at Brandeis and about the entanglement,
about how in high energy physics that were these these mesons,
they split and they connected with each other.
And the way the paper is written, it is what a guy named Ray Chow,
who's a retired physics professor, semi-retired,
who I kind of work with from Berkeley, Berkeley professor.
And he he calls a creative tension, what I call creative tension in physics.
There are things we don't quite understand.
We don't kind of understand how can this this quantum entanglement
seems to allow faster than light communication, it seems to.
It doesn't, OK, that this somehow you could be on Mars
and I can be on Earth.
And if our same minds are entangled, that we could instantly
you can sort of know what my mind is thinking.
I can know what your mind is thinking.
It turns out in ordinary quantum mechanics, there's there's there's a fly
in that ointment because it turns there's a noise factor.
So you can't really it can't really happen in standard quantum mechanics.
But when you extend quantum mechanics, it can happen.
That's a tricky thing.
So but the, you know, the connection between the mind, consciousness,
telepathy, Einstein called entanglement, spooky quantum.
OK, Einstein called it spooky telepathic action at a distance.
When Einstein discovered, well,
Schrodinger actually discovered a little bit before Einstein.
When Einstein in 1935 wrote this paper with his students,
Podolski and Rosen, the famous what's called EPR paper that Kaiser's book
that the guys got the Nobel Prize for, basically, what the Bell's theorem,
all that stuff, Einstein didn't like it because it seemed
to contradict relativity theory that nothing go faster than light.
They see that if the if the speed of light of 300,000 meters per second
in vacuum, if that's the fastest you can communicate, but yet this entanglement
seems to be that there's an influence, you know, faster than light.
So what's going on here?
The quantum is a creative tension.
Can you explain briefly what the theory of relativity is?
Theory? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
General G.R. explain explain.
OK, there are two theories.
People who may may be listening who might not be OK, might not know.
OK, very. I mean, this is these are not easy things to answer.
OK, the special theory of relativity.
OK, here's what it's about.
I'm not going to do the math.
What it's about.
You're there.
I'm here. And there's Steve over there.
There's Steve. Hey, Steve.
Hey, Steve. Now.
Music camera. Yeah.
But however, we're we're out in space.
We're we're not spacesuits.
We're all in space.
This has to be done in a vacuum.
That the whole theory of relativity only really works in vacuum.
When you're inside matter, there are problems.
There are problems.
So but here's the thing.
But we're we're floating around in our spacesuits.
And we have rocket.
We we can we can use our rockets, but we could free float.
OK, when we're floating out in space,
we are what are called inertial observers, inertial frame.
That's very important.
We're free. We're weightless.
You know, there's no gravity.
But wait, he's just floating around in space, right?
And and Steve over there, he's doing something in the space stage.
We're looking at him.
We're watching, you know, we have tele,
well, look at your telescopes, whatever.
We're just we're getting light signals.
From Steve, right?
OK.
And we're measuring.
We're seeing what he's aware.
We're sort of measuring.
We're measuring his finger, whatever.
We're like getting data.
I'm getting my data.
You're getting your data.
OK, but then.
We're moving relative to each other.
But we're free floating.
We don't know what we're for.
We're both called inertial observers,
but there's a relative velocity between us.
OK, we'll assume that that that that relative velocity between us.
There's no acceleration.
I'm assuming there's a uniform velocity difference between us.
But we're both with our light, you know, through light signals,
we're both measuring what he's doing, what Steve is doing.
And by the way, light has a finite speed, right?
So what I see, what I see him doing takes,
you know, is coming from his past, right?
Because the light has to go very fast.
Yeah, what is the speed of light again?
It's like it's 300,000 meters per second,
which is 186,000 miles per second in vacuum.
This is only in vacuum now.
I got to remember something.
OK, OK, OK.
So now here's the thing.
The first principle of relativity, of special relativity, is suppose
you and I were still we're what are called inertial observers.
That's very important. We're inertial observers.
We're free floating in space, our spacesuits.
But suppose I want to somehow have a device.
I measure the speed of light in vacuum and I get a number.
And you also measure the speed of light in vacuum and you get a number.
But we're moving relative to each other.
So normally you would think like think of cars, you know, like think that
two people in cars moving at different speeds, the ground, you know,
and you would like subtract the velocity to get the relative velocities.
You know, what's called the Galilean velocity addition law
that that we shouldn't all if we're both safe, we're both again at a light signal.
And now and you're moving relative to me.
We should see different velocities of light, which is different light speeds.
If you think of if you think of light like a car, OK.
See if you think, OK, if there's a car and you're moving
parallel to the car, but at a different speed and you measure
the relative speed of the car to you and I'm moving at a different relative speed.
We'll be going to get different relative speeds of that car. Right.
But guess what? When you do light and vacuum, you get the same number.
Interesting. OK.
That's the base. That's the special principle of relativity.
OK. OK. Now, that's what Einstein in 1905
made everybody understand.
Actually, other people, actually, there was this guy, Lawrence,
even before him and who actually had it, but didn't have quite the right idea.
And it turns out that, OK, there are two things in physics at the time.
There's what's called classical mechanics, the mechanics, motion, you know,
automobiles, stuff like that, rockets, steam engines.
Well, that's also thermodynamics.
And that's the Newtonian theory of gravity.
You know, with the 17th century to 19th century physics and mechanics,
mechanical, the mechanical universe, clockwork, you know, clocks, clockwork universe.
And then, but then at Maxwell around the time of the Civil War,
well, beginning of the beginning of the 19th century, early 1800s,
you had all these, you know,
so Humphrey Davy and Michael Faraday and all these guys, Thomas Young,
and they were doing electricity and magnetism and light, you know,
and all this stuff, optics.
Well, Newton already was doing optics.
But so. But what happened around the time of the Civil War,
James Maxwell, who was a Scottish guy up in
maybe I may have been in London by then, but maybe in Scotland.
And he was a mathematician.
He took all this stuff at that before Maxwell,
which was before the American Civil War,
physicists, they knew there was electricity, they knew there was magnetism
and they knew there was optics, but they were all three separate branches of physics.
Right. OK. The different they didn't knew the connection.
But what Maxwell got this great idea
that he related the speed of light and vacuum
to what's called the magnetic permeability of the vacuum
and the electrical permittivity.
So he so Maxwell is able to.
This is Maxwell.
This is white.
White speed.
This is electricity, electricity.
Call it electric.
And this is magnetic.
So OK, I'll get back there.
So this is this is only one of the things that Maxwell did.
So Maxwell had.
This is the first unified field theory.
First of all, OK, mechanics had to do with like particles,
little little hard, messy billion balls
moving around through space and time colliding.
Right. That's mechanics, basically, you know, playing billiards,
playing billiards at the bar.
You're doing Newtonian classical mechanics.
Right. Right. OK. OK.
You have conservation momentum, angular momentum and energy and all that.
That makes sense. OK. All right.
But how does quantum compete with that?
Well, this is pre-quantum.
There's no quantum yet.
There's no quantum yet.
This is all quantum kind of hundred years later.
This is before a quantum.
There's nobody had an inkling about quantum mechanics at this point.
What Maxwell did was he
what are called Maxwell field equations.
Which unify electricity, magnetism and light as one unified
phenomenon. And the field equations, there are four field equations.
One is called Gauss's law.
Gauss's law relates the electric charge to the electric field.
And then there's what's called Ampere's law.
Ampere's law relates the the current, the electrical current
to the generation of a magnetic field.
OK. And then there's what's called
there's a thing which says that there are no magnetic monopoles.
That's sort of technical.
And then there's what's called Faraday's induction law,
which is how a time changing magnetic field
creates an electric field.
OK. And and then but then Maxwell also did something very important.
Going back to Ampere's law, which they knew about,
in which a steady currency creates like a solenoid,
you know, the magnetic field around a coil.
He also showed that a changing electric field also generates a magnetic field.
This is called the Maxwell displacement current.
And we put all these things together.
You get a wave equation.
Where things he puts they predict electromagnetic waves,
which is, you know, television, radio, you know, everything, you know, right?
This is Marconi and then later, you know, Edison.
Well, OK.
So we predict the electromagnetic waves hurts.
And that's the beginning of the modern, you know, technological revolution.
But the whole point in 1905, you see the Maxwell's,
there was there was like a contradiction between
classical mechanics and Maxwell's electromagnetic field theory,
which is sort of analogous to today,
where there's like a creative tension between gravity theory and quantum mechanics.
So there was, you know, this was a problem.
So what I did in 1905, he reconciled,
he showed that if you now just realize that in vacuum,
the speed of light is invariant.
What's called invariant?
It's the same number, 300,000 meters per second for you.
For Danny, as it is for Jackie, we're out in space, but we're freely, we're weightless.
This only works if you're weightless.
OK. OK. You've got to be what I call inertial frames.
OK. It works approximately on the Earth
because we're, you know, even though we're not really inertial frames,
the correction is very small and the speed of light is so big.
So, you know, people kind of like a sloppy.
They don't they forget about this.
OK. And then but they make mistakes,
which have to do with flying saucers, you see.
OK. But that's I'm getting ahead of myself.
So now, OK.
So that's a special theory of relativity. Got it.
Speed of light is the same for all different people.
As long as they're moving uniformly relative to each other,
they'll all measure the same speed of light.
But as a result of that, certain things happen.
In terms of something called time dilation.
OK. That if things are so.
So, for example, we have what are called cosmic rays
and cosmic rays have what are called mu mesons, certain particles
that that if you take a mu meson sitting in the laboratory.
It takes a certain what's called it's like radioactivity,
a certain half life, certain amount of time for half of the
mu mesons to decay into electrons and I guess neutrinos or something.
But these cosmic rays coming in very fast.
OK. Cosmic rays coming very fast.
And you look at they decay, their decay rate is much longer.
They live longer.
Interesting. It's called time dilation. OK.
And this is a result of the fact that the speed of light
is the same for all inertial observers.
So there's that.
And it also led to equals MC squared.
And also, you know, Einstein, that's where he gets the the energy is
equivalent to mass. There's one.
And that's the atomic bomb, right?
A nuclear radioactivity, nuclear physics.
So just that one realization
that the speed of light is the same for all inertial observers.
But now we have to get the general relativity.
OK, general relativity.
Oh, and also just before I go.
So to summarize, special relativity unifies
classical mechanics of Newton, well, generalizes it
so that it's consistent with Maxwell's electrodynamics.
Everything is now a consistent picture that the mechanics you he modify.
He modified, but it's now what's what's called relative special
relativistic mechanics fits in very nicely with Maxwell's
electromagnetic field, because Maxwell's electromagnetic field
equations turns out are already the man that the speed of light
be the same for you and me if we're moving uniform relative to each other.
So so Maxwell's theory and it was but people didn't realize
that it was Einstein and I guess to some extent maybe
Lawrence a little bit before I said who realized that in order
that in order for Maxwell's theory to make sense,
the speed of light cannot be different for two different
inertial observers moving relative to each other.
All right. But what happens if we're accelerating?
What happens if you what happens if you switch on your your rocket
engine, you're out in space and now you're accelerating?
Now you'll get a different speed of light for what I get.
See, that's this is that's this is the beginning of general relativity.
General relativity has to do with several things.
It has to do well.
You can do accelerating frame, but a called noninertial frames.
That's where you're out in space and you fire your your rocket
and your cell and you feel G force.
Building G force. OK.
See, we're getting that the UFOs.
Remember the UFOs.
They're seeing these UFOs.
They go off 5,000 G's.
You know, can a human can do more than like eight or nine G's
for a limited period of time.
These hundreds of G's, 5,000 G's. Right. OK.
And that's they still these guys.
They still I mean, even did you watch the thing?
The Senate, the Congressional Intelligence Committee, Subcommittee.
Yes, I did. OK.
Then you see when Commander Fray of the Navy passed.
They know that we don't understand the physics.
Yep. Yeah.
I even talked to Ryan Graves on my podcast.
And he was all right.
Well, you should have.
So you should try to get now in the future.
You should get Ryan to come talk to me together and get.
And then I'll explain it to him.
But he's, you know, because they don't understand.
Ryan was only seeing it on his radar.
He never actually saw it. No, no.
But I'm not. It doesn't matter.
I'm trying to. So he's he's confused.
He doesn't know how it could work.
I can explain to him how it works.
Simple. Elementary.
It's elementary physics of general relativity.
Einstein. That's all.
They don't understand enough physics.
So to them, you know, they're understanding.
And the point is, nobody understands it in the in the military.
They don't understand it.
Elizondo doesn't understand it.
Chris, I know these guys understand it, but they could understand it.
They'd listen to me and a few other, you know, it's very easy to understand.
We understand it perfectly.
It's elementary, my dear Watson.
OK, we understand it theoretically, but we don't necessarily know.
We don't know if anybody has been able to actually back engineer that.
Well, that's a different story. The back engineering.
That's a whole different story. Right.
We don't know. We don't know if we can actually create that.
We know how theoretically we know how anti gravity works, right?
Like Bob Lazar explained this.
No, no. OK. Now, Bob Lazar doesn't explain it.
That's a whole other thing. Don't Bob.
Bob Lazar is not a physicist.
Bob Lazar is what's called a useful idiot of the military industrial complex
who's been given a certain amount of information.
Actually, that comes from stuff I was working on in the 70s with
of the salam at the sum of what when he talks about gravity, a and gravity,
B, that's what was called the salam theory, the F gravity,
strong, short range, gravity, part of the nuclear physics.
Yeah, I was that part has some truth in it,
although he doesn't explain it properly because he's not a physicist.
OK, let me see if I can
regurgitate my layman view of how he explained it.
He explained that there was a reactor inside of this sport model UFO saucer
that when the saucer went from horizontal to vertical, it flew belly first.
And what it did was it sort of displaced
matter in front of it so that when the thing moves from left to right, it sort of falls.
OK, it doesn't. OK.
Number one, I don't think that's probably your error.
I don't think he said matter.
He said it displaces the vacuums, displaces the space itself.
Yes, that's what I meant. OK. Yeah, not matter.
That's different. But yeah, and that's warp drive.
That's what I'm talking about. It's warp drive.
So he has he had part of what he says
is true, but it's sloppy.
It's not done properly.
But but when he gets to the nuclear, the 115, you don't need any of that.
You know, that 115. The element 115.
Yeah, it's stupid. It doesn't.
And he never explains.
I suppose I have a stable isotope of element 115.
What's the equations that show me how that affects the ground?
How does that warp space show me how to do that?
He doesn't know how to do that because it can't be done.
It's bullshit. That's what's called pseudo physics.
That's that's a story for idiots.
But that's a story he's been given.
He's been. He's like Benowitz, you know, the Benowitz story.
He's been, you know.
OK, I can see I was lasar.
He's like an all American kid and he was he's intelligent.
He's he's a good salesman.
He's articulate. OK.
He presents himself well, especially back in the 80s.
And actually, he was into warp drive before I was.
So somebody had told him.
I mean, it's only later that we really that I that I really realized it was warp drive.
Only actually last 20 years, maybe.
So somebody. But that's made because, see, this is time travel.
So I think what's happening is that.
And this is I'm speculating now is that the stuff that we're going to build.
So I thought he's space corporation, OK,
is going to make that some of that stuff was sent back in time to the 80s
to Area 51, where Lazar comes into the picture.
And.
Maybe maybe one of the guys are in the soil, maybe one of the maybe.
Maybe the time travelers, you know, who go back to Area 51.
I'm now I'm spending I'm spending, you know, this is speculative.
I'm not saying this really happened, but it would make sense.
This is a possible explanation.
And so the guy from the future came back and told Lazar.
Or told some of the guys there, the scientists there, who then told Lazar.
But they wanted it down.
They gave it what's called disinformation.
What did you call it? Limited hangout, limited hangout.
They gave that.
Yeah. So what it is, something a little bit of a sliver of something that's true.
Yeah. And what?
But not the whole pie. Yeah.
But yeah, right.
And also they that may have been done deliberately.
So that's straight physicists like me would right away dismiss.
Oh, this is crazy, which is part of the stigma, the whole stigma,
because they don't want the Russians to know they want the Chinese,
you know, whatever, National Security, all that kind of crazy stuff.
OK, so that could be.
So I was actually surprised when I actually first listened to Lazar
talk about gravity, gravity, because that's kind of what I'm working on.
But he didn't explain it the other way.
I would explain it.
So he had a piece of it without really understanding it.
And again, as I said yesterday, there are different levels of physics.
There's community college, right?
Associate degree.
There is four year college undergraduate bachelor degree.
There's then there's a master's level and then the PhD level.
Lazar is a smart associate degree level type.
Electrical technician, you know, physics.
He's that's that's what his job was when he was, you know, he's, you know,
and he lied.
The problem is he also he lied about his academic background.
He said he went to MIT and Caltech.
He didn't. Right.
There's no evidence of.
But there's an argument to the MIT thing.
There's an argument that if
someone like Los Alamos wanted him to
acquire some sort of specific knowledge, they could have sent him to MIT
covertly to sort of learn something as part of some dark problem.
That's possible. That's possible.
But it's clear to me
that Lazar doesn't know any math.
He doesn't know physics.
He doesn't know he's not a theoretical.
See, he would write down equations and I could tell right away.
But he's just given a script.
He's reading off a script.
He didn't create this. It's not his creation.
And he was he's reading off a script that somebody gave him.
Now, the people who gave him that script, they may know what I'm talking about.
But it wasn't Lazar.
We don't know who Lazar spoke to back in Area 51.
OK. I want to get back to the point
when the CIA actually reached out to you and wanted you to work on some of this
consciousness stuff. Yeah. Well, that's what I was telling you.
That's George Koopman.
Well, that's also OK.
Wait, I got to go back a little.
How did that?
Can you like walk me through how that works?
OK. All right. How do they do they do they show up at your doorstep?
Do they send you? Well, sometimes they have many different levels.
So first of all, OK, first of all, you're just you're you're how old at this point?
And then I'm about thirty five.
You're about thirty five.
No, no, but happened way before then.
That's that's already that's that's I want to know what it's like
to be a guy like you in your thirties to be contacted by the CIA
and pulled out of academia and start working on stuff like conscious.
Like what is consciousness?
OK, let's go back.
We have to we have to backtrack a little now.
Let's see, where do I start?
Where do I start?
OK, first of all, I'm back.
I have to start now where I guess I'm at UCSD, La Jolla.
OK, this is like the mid sixties, the mid sixties.
OK, and I'm a graduate student at physics department in La Jolla.
And I'm part of in what called Keith Brookner's group, Keith Brookner.
You have to check him out.
He's dead now, but he was there's a thing called the Jason's.
Yes, I've heard of that. The Jason.
Yeah, I read I actually just finished reading
any Jacobson's book called OK, the Pentagon's Brain,
all about the creation of Darpa.
So my the guy my the guy I was working for,
UCSD was the head of the Jason's.
Oh, wow. And, you know, at least part of, you know,
they would have meetings of the Jason's.
And I would go to some of them at UCSD in La Jolla.
They created like the first computer, right?
And the. No, no, I think that was before the first.
No, the first computer is back in the fifties.
That's that's that's what I my phone call.
So the first computer back then.
That's a Princeton.
That's the Aniac and maniac.
But yes, exactly. Yes.
Maniac. No, I don't think there are no Jason's.
That's before that's that's that's that's right after close after Roswell.
You know, all right.
So the Jason's are around the time of Vietnam, I think.
Yes, yes. And this is the 60s.
I'm there in 65, 66, 67.
And I would go to the button, you know,
I would sit in on some of the Jason meetings on on various things.
And Keith Booker was like chairing it.
And also La Jolla was beautiful.
But everybody wants to come to La Jolla.
You know, Edward Tellerwood was there a lot.
John Wheeler, John Archibald Wheeler, Fred Hoyle from England,
a lot of a lot of people from England for Herbert Furlick, Bert Matthias.
It was, you know, pay everyone.
It was a beautiful place.
La Jolla, you know, the beach and, you know, what's called the
the the oceanographic scripts.
Oceanographic was part of the campus.
This is amazing. Yeah.
So in fact, OK, there's a very good book you should read, actually,
by the Benford twins, Gregory Benford,
one of the world called Timescape science fiction novel.
I was he actually I'm actually in the book.
There's a composite of me.
You know, I was I was part of the Benford twins.
We were all graduate students together. OK.
And he writes this story.
It's all about what's really happening.
He writes a story about the future creating the past,
the influence that communicate with the past.
It's in Timescape because that's part of Fred Hoyle.
See, Fred Hoyle. OK, Fred Hoyle.
Fred Hoyle used to come there a lot.
This is Fred. What I'm working on is Fred Hoyle's theory.
Fred Hoyle wrote a book, The Intelligent Universe.
Fred Hoyle. OK, Fred Hoyle.
Let's see now.
How is let's see Dennis Yammer.
Fred Hoyle was the Isaac Newton Professor of Astronomy at Cambridge University.
I think when Fred Hoyle retired, Stephen Hawking.
Took Fred Hoyle's job.
But Fred Hoyle used to come all the time.
To UCSD, La Jolla, from Cambridge. OK.
If you read Fred Hoyle's book, he has everything.
Jack Sarfati talks about also ready in Fred Hoyle's book,
The Intelligent Contrast Universe, in which the future is influencing the past.
OK, this is now part of quantum theory.
What's called the Akia Ahrana.
There's a whole thing.
What's called weak measurement theory.
Today, all of quantum entanglement, all a spooky telepathic action at a distance,
can be neatly explained, consistent with Einstein's theory of relativity,
that there's no signal fast and the speed of light, but things can go backward in time.
Everything is now explained.
We have a unified conceptual picture connecting relativity,
solving, resolving the creative tension between relativity and quantum entanglement
or non-locality, spooky action, just we understand all.
It's too much to really explain, you know, but just you have to take my word for it.
You know, if you want to do other things later, we can.
So we understand that.
And that was partly from Fred Hoyle, from Fred Hoyle coming to La Jolla,
influencing me and the Benford.
The Benford twins wrote a science fiction novel based on Fred Hoyle's theory.
So everything I'm telling you now, you want to get into it.
It's timescape by the Benford, by Gregory and Jim Benford.
It's set in La Jolla in the 70s.
And it's very much like what I'm it's it's art.
Imitating reality.
Everything that's happening now is kind of like what's in the timescape book.
So read timescape, you know, that sets the stage.
That's what I'm talking about.
But it's a fictional story that's more like it's more reality than reality.
OK, all right. All right.
So where are we at?
So I was I was trying to get to the point where the CIA actually contacted you
and watched you. OK, so wait. OK.
So first, OK, I want you to walk me through that.
We we've gotten kind of you're off top.
So it's the mid 60s.
I'm involved with Keith Booker and it's full of CIA and military.
It's the Jason's, right? The Jason's.
Yeah. So they're all the hanging out there, too.
How old are you?
I mean,
to Brooklyn, I guess, Brooklyn was probably part of the Manhattan Project, too.
Now come to think of it.
Oh, he did something.
I guess nuclear physicists.
Nuclear matter.
So, OK, so.
And then I was also hanging out going up to Caltech with Richard
meeting Richard Feynman, who I met.
I first met Feynman in 1963 and and I.
So I say the summer of 66.
OK, so I invited.
I go to NATO, a NATO summer school in nonlinear physics
at Werner Heisenberg's Max Planck Institute in Munich.
You know, summer.
And I was also invited.
I was also invited to Her Majesty's Atomic Energy Research
Establishment, Harwell, right near Oxford, out of Oxford.
That's that.
That's like the Lawrence Livermore bag.
That's the nuclear weapons, nuclear reactors.
I was invited there, too.
So at the beginning, so at the first at the beginning of the summer,
I'm in Munich with Heisenberg.
You know, Heisenberg.
OK, every day, you know, having tea with eyes, cookies and eyes.
I then even went to beer halls and some beer, you know, afternoon.
Every day, five days a week, I mean, I'm in Schwabing,
which is kind of like North Beach, Schwabing in Munich.
You know, it's a Bohemian, like sort of like North Beach.
But in this big park, I would get up in the morning,
walk up, take the trolley cars, the trolley goes the end of the line.
That's the Max Planck Institute.
And John Wheeler, Archibald Wheeler, you know,
worked with Telwell that created the fusion, the hydrogen bomb and all that stuff.
Well, he said, yeah.
And I was there for, you know, this guy, who was there, Kruskal, Rostein.
In any case, a lot of these famous guys, you know,
well, related to the nuclear weapons and stuff like that, they're there.
It's a NATO, NATO is paying for it.
Right.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
And then after that, I left, actually left the week or two earlier
because I had to get to Harwell.
They didn't like that.
Then I mean, I was also married and meet my wife.
We go to, I spent several weeks in Harwell at Ridgway House, we're billeted it.
Ridgway House was a former RAF officer's quarter.
And, you know, there were a bunch of the airfields, the Air Force, US Air Force still had,
actually still does.
I think, you know, there's a bunch of US Air Force, British Air Force facilities
around there.
That's where the Spitfires and the Battle of Britain, they were all, you know,
some of them were there.
And some of these guys from the RAF, they were still there at Harwell.
They were working for the atomic energy thing.
They were still these guys, including, you know, military intelligence officers.
I was, you know, living with them.
It's like an officer's mess.
You know, it's like a hotel on the campus of the atomic energy research.
OK.
And while there, I, you know, also, it was a very nice place.
I was in the theoretical physics division at Harwell.
And it was like being at a university, you know, and I would go to Oxford.
I would go down to the University of London and when going down to Imperial College,
University of London with Abdul Salam and Goldstone.
And again, so it was all these guys.
And this is Higgs, you know, the Higgs mechanism.
And they were all like developing this stuff.
And I would go back to Harwell and talk about what they were doing at Imperial College.
And there was this young guy about my age, maybe a little older,
named Marshall Stonem. He's a solid state guy.
And he, so he was, you know, so as a result of my going down to Imperial,
Marshall and I wrote this paper called The Goldstone Theorem and the Antelor Effect,
which was published, this is 1966, was published in the Proceedings of the Physical Society of London.
And what it does, it shows how the stuff that they're doing, that they were doing at Imperial,
which is sort of related to the Higgs mechanism, the high energy physics,
how it relates to condensed matter physics.
And in this case, it's how a distortion of a lattice, just a crystal lattice,
a distortion kind of creates, in a way, a kind of room temperature superconductor.
I mean, I'm exaggerating a little bit, but there were connections to all this current interest,
the room temperature superconductors, L99, even though it doesn't work,
but they're claiming because of the distortion.
Any case, it sounds to me like maybe they're talking about the Antelor Effect.
So this, even though that particular thing they're doing, that didn't work
because they're not accurate enough, that we may be able to get at it to work
because I'm now seeing a connection. I could be wrong.
This is just, you know, I'm just, this is still half-baked.
I think the stuff I did at Harwell in 1966 with Marshall Stonem,
that that may be applicable to getting room temperature superconductivity along the lines as LK99.
I could be wrong, but it's just an idea that we have to think about.
This is all too new.
But in any case, this paper that I wrote with Marshall, Marshall actually wrote most of it.
In the 1980 American Journal of Physics, Papers on Symmetry and Physics is a recommended paper.
You know, one of the recommended, that's being an important paper, okay?
And at that point, so already there's, okay, so I go back to La Jolla, all right?
And so what happens then?
I don't know, should we take a break?
So the back of this book, The Great Race, Physics, Paranormal, Time Travel and UFOs,
it says the thrilling true story that was left out of David Kaiser's book,
The Hippies Saved Physics, how Jack Sarfati, asked by the CIA with the Russians watching,
solved the hard problem of consciousness, remote viewing, psychokinesis,
and how the time traveling warp drive UFOs that the US Navy is defenseless against really worked.
So I guess what I'm getting at is how did the CIA ask you to do this?
Well, this happened over a long period, it wasn't just one thing.
So it wasn't one thing that happened?
No, it was a bunch of things.
So you were basically just surrounded by military intelligence people?
Yes.
And so the CIA never actually said, hey, can you do this for us?
No, but they did.
I was just telling you, this guy George Coopman, the whole industrial community.
Okay, I see.
I understand.
Yeah, yeah.
But this boy was actually, you know, later on, I mean, many, many, many encounters.
There's this guy, Harold Chipman.
This is now the mid 1980s.
Harold Chipman, who was at the time chief of station of the CIA headquarters here in San Francisco.
They have an office.
Let's see where it is.
But he had previously been head of Berlin station CIA during the 60s and the 70s.
Okay, you can look at him.
I mean, he's, you know, people write about him.
Right.
And he was funding me, you know.
Okay.
And he was involved in MKUltra back already back in San Francisco, whenever they did in
the late 50s.
Yeah, I saw, I was looking up yesterday, we were walking down the street.
I saw the Haight-Ashbury Clinic wasn't that far away from here.
Well, yeah, nothing's far.
I mean, yeah.
Haight-Ashbury Clinic is like five minutes down the road from here, right?
No, no, that's not the Haight-Ashbury.
No, Haight-Ashbury is far.
It's not five minutes.
Oh, really?
I thought it was closer.
No, no, no, no, no.
It's about 15, 20, 30 minutes.
It depends on.
Okay.
It's over at Haight-Ashbury.
It's a different part of town.
Okay.
It's not that far.
It's maybe two miles.
Yeah, it's pretty close.
I mean, this is a small town.
So, tell me again, who specifically pulled you out of the university?
Well, wait, that's what we have to get to.
Okay, we'll get to that.
Just real quick.
Let's just go real quick.
Well, no, because they say that's the put-off.
That's how put-off.
That's how put-off.
Oh, that's added into it.
Okay.
So, all right.
I'm teaching at San Diego State, a young assistant professor.
I'm there with this guy, Fred Wolf.
And I'm also doing, you know, I'm split between, I was singing in the San Diego Civic Opera
and also the local San Diego State Gilbert and Sullivan Society again, doing a bunch
of shows and also trying to be an assistant professor.
And my wife at the time, Roberta, she was a professor of English at San Diego State.
Any case, you know, I had a pretty full schedule, and she didn't like, she thought I was having
an affair.
I wasn't.
So, my wife got pissed, got a little paranoid, and so I wind up getting a divorce, like in
70, 69, 70, around 1970, I guess it was.
And this guy, this other crazy physics guy, who's a bit older than me, he's at a summer
associate professor, I'm an assistant professor, he winds up getting a divorce at the same
time.
So, we move in together, you know, on the edge of campus, like the odd couple, I saw
that movie with Jack Lemon and Walter Mathau.
I'm kind of like the slob, Walter Mathau, and Fred Wolf is kind of like Jack Lemon.
And you're at the edge of the campus, and it's like the Christmas time of 73, is it?
Oh, no, it's Christmas time of 72, yeah, Christmas time of 72.
And Fred gets a phone call from his friend Bob Tobin from Chicago, where Fred went to
high school, and Bob and Fred were on the football team together.
And Bob has made a lot of money in the, you know, the meat, the commodities market in
Chicago, and he's kind of a zany artist guy.
So Bob says he wants to come to San Diego, so, you know, Fred, yeah, come on, you know,
like, I mean, everything's pretty loose.
So Bob shows up, and then a strange thing happens, and he says, he said the reason he
came is that he got a book contract, and a television contract, about this guy, here's
the Mossad, about the Israeli psychic, Uri Gela.
No, does the name Uri Gela ring a bell?
No.
Oh, you don't even know Uri Gela?
Nope, no clue.
God.
Israeli psychic?
Yes.
Turns out he's a Mossad agent.
Okay.
A Mossad.
That you're so interested.
Okay.
Yeah.
We didn't know at the time.
Oh, God, you don't know about Uri Gela.
So Uri Gela today is back in Israel.
He's a close confidant of Bibi Netanyahu.
Okay.
They were in the power, in the 67 war together, in that elite paratroop unit, which there
were two Netanyahus, one brother got killed later, and Tebi and all that stuff.
This is all part of that.
Okay.
So we didn't know at the time.
This is now 1972, and we didn't know what he was talking about.
We didn't know who Uri Gela was, paranormal.
So anyway, so he's coming to, he's coming to, he's got a lot of money.
He says you don't have to take time off, you don't have to teach.
So this is, this is the CIA operation, right?
And he says you don't have to teach, I got plenty of money, and I'll cut through a bunch
of details.
Who said this?
Bob Tobin.
Bob Tobin.
Bob Tobin comes from Chicago.
Got it.
You know, and he wanted Fred, he didn't even know about me at that point.
He wanted Fred to explain using quantum mechanics, how consciousness works, and how the paranormal,
how Uri Gela's able to bend metal with his mind, psychokinesis, okay, bend spoons and
stuff like that.
He actually bent spoons with his mind?
Well, that was the claim.
A lot of the guys like Amazing Randy said it was a magic trick, but it's not so simple
as that.
I mean, magicians can do what Uri, magicians can do some of what Uri Gela does.
They can't do everything Uri Gela does.
And Uri Gela is a magician, and at times he did cheat and do the tricks that the magicians
would say caught him on, but he didn't always do it that way because they can't always
control his power, all right?
So any case, we didn't know anything.
We were pretty naive.
So Fred, and then, and Bob is like, yeah, he's a nice, zany guy, and then so Bob says,
yeah, he includes me in it too.
So okay.
So Bob, and Bob leaves, and then a couple of weeks later, Fred Wolf gets a call from
Paris from a friend of his who's in the French university physics department, who Fred had
worked with on a time, remember Fred was doing nuclear explosion physics, you know, Lawrence
Livermore, stuff like that, and this French friend says, listen, this guy's leaving for
a couple of months.
Do you want to, why don't you come to Paris, teach a course just one day a week?
You know, you could teach in English if you want.
And Fred says, okay, sounds good, especially since we have this, also this extra money
from Bob Tobin says, whenever you need money, don't worry about money.
I want you to work on the Southern thing.
And then Fred also then gets a call from John Hastead, who's head of physics department
at the University of London in what's called Birkbeck College, similar office says, look,
we want you to come, and you could also teach, you could go back and forth between Paris
and London and teach these courses just, you know.
And I get a call from London, from Abdeslam, who's the head of Imperial College, I remember
I mentioned him when I was at Harwell, and he says, he's running an institute in Trieste,
Italy called the International Center for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, which is where
the Russian physicists, the African, Indian, Chinese, American, you know, all over South
America, international, UNESCO, United Nations.
And this is where I'm working on what Lazar calls Gravity A, Gravity B, he calls it that,
that's how we call it, okay.
But that's the thing, I have been working on that already.
And Abdeslam, who later got a Nobel Prize, by the way, he was also working on it.
And so he said, come to Trieste, I'll give you a job, you know, all right, so.
So suddenly, a few weeks after Bob leaves saying, listen, you don't have to stay here,
I got plenty of money, I want you guys to work on this Uri Gela thing, how does physics
explain consciousness?
Yeah.
There's no mention of flying saucers.
Just consciousness, you know, paranormal, bending metal, how could the mind bend metal,
you know, things like that, telepathy, right.
And so, here we are, so we're getting ready, so, okay, so I, I'm living, I have a girlfriend
at the time, you know, I had met her, but she had previously worked in the Office of
Naval Intelligence at the American Embassy in London, which is kind of interesting, she's
with me.
And she, it's now 1973, it's 20 years after my phone calls, okay, okay.
And I hadn't been thinking about the phone calls, they were not in my mind.
And, and so, I'm scheduled to fly to London and then on to Trieste.
And it's now the weekend before my flight is leaving San Francisco on a Wednesday, it's
now the Sunday morning before I'm flying out and I'm with my, with staying, my girlfriend
I was staying at her mother's house in Carmel Valley, still in Carmel Valley.
And I'm in bed, it's Sunday morning, so this is now time travel now.
It's Sunday morning, Sharon's mother brings in the San Francisco Chronicle Sunday paper,
okay, I'm in bed looking at the paper.
I open up the San Francisco Chronicle Magazine section and there's a big multicolor major
spread on Stanford Research Institute testing Uri Geller for his paranormal powers.
I mean, that seems to be right, okay, I said, hey, this is just what Bob Tobin wants to
give us money to, to work on, right, was that me or you?
That was you.
How's that happening?
Huh.
So, or that's, or that's somebody's listening.
Sorry, Geller.
Oh, no, it's Massad.
Yes, Massad, they're listening.
All right, so, so I say, hi, this is weird, you know, so Monday morning comes and I say,
I got to call these guys, get on the phone, call the Stanford Research Institute.
And this guy, this Irish guy, and I, thick Irish accent, Irish accent, Brendan O'Regan
gets on the phone.
Ah, Dr. Saffati, we were hoping you would call.
Do you realize how weird that is?
Who could arrange that I'm going to, first of all, I know that I'm going to pick up
the damn newspaper, read, look at the article, and then decide to call them.
This could only be had, there's something really high, this is Twilight Zone now, right?
I said, we were hoping you would call before you left for England.
Because they already knew I was going to England.
Okay?
Whoa.
Okay.
So, okay, so, so, and so they said, could you just drive up?
They knew where I was, not far from the car, an hour and a half, again, can you come up
to Stanford?
We'd like to talk to you.
Get in the car.
And I get there.
The first thing, I meet Brendan, and he takes me across from SRI to what's called the Weddicks
Institute.
And I, who do I meet?
I meet, excuse me, I meet Edgar Mitchell, you know, he was.
Oh, yeah.
Gorgeous.
He's the head of the project.
The guy who walked on the moon, yes or not, Edgar Mitchell.
I meet Brendan O'Regan, he takes me to meet Edgar Mitchell.
Okay.
Then, this is where Jacques Valet comes in.
Jacques Valet's involved in the CCC.
I didn't know if I had no idea where Jacques Valet was.
Then I'm told, oh, Jacques Valet has arranged a meeting at this guy, Dean Brown.
Dean Brown's house, you know, in Menlo Park somewhere.
Dean Brown's one of the original Silicon Valley venture capital guys, rich guy.
You know, they're all, this is all intelligence, right?
You look back now, it's all, there's a book, you see that book, Third Eye Spies, it's all
about that.
So, the CIA, that's her Russell Tog.
Have you talked to Russell?
She's talked to Russell Tog.
He's still alive and he's 90, so you better talk to him fast.
Call him up.
Russell Tog?
Targ.
Targ.
Targ.
Do you ever see the film Ghostbusters?
Of course.
Well, that Ghostbusters, that's how, that's Russell Tog.
He's the ghost, the guy, you know, the gorky guy.
Oh, wow.
He's our Russell Tog.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
Oh, anything.
Right, okay.
That's why I do this.
Any case, so Russell's still alive, he's 90 years old, so I'll give you his contact,
you call him.
Okay.
Because he was there.
You know, he's a, and, and, so they're supposed to, Jacques Valle has arranged a meeting
for Jack, for me, and Hal Puttoff, and a bunch of guys, you know, some psychologists,
they were all, someone that was CIA, I guess, I didn't know who they were.
And so we go there, but Jacques never showed up for some reasons, I don't know, which is
interesting.
Yes.
Hey, Jacques, you arranged this meeting for Jacques Sarfati and Brendel Regan, SRI in
1970, how come he never came?
Well, when I leave here, I'm going straight to his apartment, so I'll ask him when I
get there.
Are you really?
No, I'm just kidding.
All right.
Well, you should actually.
All right.
So now, so.
We're going to record in the locker room.
Okay.
Now, the important point, this is a CIA operation, now public, because everybody, the book's
written about it, okay?
It's in how the hippies say physics, all right.
But the point is, part of that meeting, you can listen to it, because the CIA, they tape
recorded the entire meeting, okay?
And somebody said, guy, Saul Paul had, I had like an hour of it, hour and a half, not the
whole thing.
But you can hear me, it's online, it's on SoundCloud.
You can actually hear me, 1973.
Really?
Oh, yes.
How do you search for this and find this?
It's my, just Jack Star Foddy SoundCloud, CIA.
Jack Star Foddy CIA meeting SoundCloud.
Yeah, whatever.
I'll give it to you, remind me.
I'll send it.
Okay.
Yeah, you can find it easily.
It's on Google.
Okay.
And it's, and in there, you can hear Russell Tog, the subject, this rabbi, this rabbi,
this is all Masad too.
It's all the common idea.
This rabbi, I forgot his name, this crazy rabbi, he's still alive, Hirtek, Jim Hirtek.
He's a UFO rabbi, flying saucer rabbi.
A UFO rabbi.
That's amazing.
New India.
Okay.
I think he's still alive.
And Russell knew him.
So Russell starts talking about Jim Hirtek and the UFOs as time machines coming back
from the future.
So Russell Tog talks about it.
Yeah, you'll hear it.
And then it's, ah, I remember that, hey, listen, what happened to me.
And I tell the story.
They told you.
I tell the story.
And Brendan Reagan says, oh yeah, we have data, several hundred cases of kids.
We have data on that.
We know about this.
What?
Okay.
So there you go.
What is, what's going on here, man?
You can hear it yourself.
You don't take my word for it.
And you can talk to, how put off is it?
Now you should definitely get how put off at Russell Tog before they died.
They're almost 90.
How put off is not going to last that much longer.
Now he's five years, he's going to be 89, 87.
I remember his story because he's interesting to me because he was a Scientologist at one
point.
No, that's bullshit.
That made me excited.
No, he admitted he was.
There was a video.
No, no, no, no.
That's exactly, you don't understand the context of that.
Well, here's the interesting thing about the Scientology stuff is because, we talked
about this last night, Jack Parsons.
Yeah.
And I'm, yeah.
There's all these things.
It was like the father of rocketry or whatever.
Whatever was the L Ron Hubbard.
He was friends with L Ron Hubbard and Alistair Crowley.
Yes.
I know all about that because I'm one step removed from that.
I'm connected with that.
It's all connected.
There's no accidents here.
Okay.
Let me explain how put off.
How put off, and he never told me the details, indicated that what happened to me with the
phone call happened to him.
He may not have gotten a phone call, but he didn't want, yeah, he's a, remember, he's
that.
How put off, I was told by Christopher Green that how put off at times has held the highest
possible security clearances.
He was an officer in the naval intelligence before he got his PhD, you know, electrical
engineering and, from Stanford.
And he, and it was, you have to talk to Russell target help up.
They have to tell you the history, how the CIA got involved with them.
Okay.
Okay.
But put off himself was already in that.
He never told me that he explore because part of the project to explore psychic power with
the CIA.
He went to Scientology meetings doesn't mean he was a Scientologist.
He may have joined the officially just, you know, because he wanted to see what they had
his L run hub.
But we know all about Jack Parsons.
If you read about Jack, if you read about the silent day, a strange angel, you've seen
the book, the Jack Parsons, but there's a book, a biography.
Strange Angel.
It's all about it.
All this stuff.
Jack Parsons worked with Frank Molina back in the 1930s, you know, on all this rocket
stuff.
Jato.
They started, what is this?
Aerojet?
General, the Jato.
Aerojet.
Yeah.
Aerojet.
Yeah.
There's a, there's actually a big Aerojet base.
It's abandoned now in South Florida.
Yeah.
And Jack Parsons.
And Jack Parsons was supporting, was financing Alistair Crowley.
And L Run Hubbard was, I think they knew L Run Hubbard.
I knew people, some of the people who supported me were, worked with L Run Hubbard and Push
Harvest.
They were all okay.
Plus it's a science fiction.
You know, Walter Breen.
All these guys knew each other.
It's a small world.
Why are all these guys so, why are they so intelligent?
They're all part of the OSS.
That sort of stuff.
But why are they so into the occult and all this angels and demons type stuff?
Well, Jack, that's why they are.
That's good.
Okay.
The short answer, because angels and demons of the Bible are real, they are the extra
terrestrial time travelers.
Okay.
That's why.
So it's all, all the stories in the Bible are real.
They're based on that, you know, it's like, you know, distorted.
But all the angels and demons, you know, Paradise Lost, John, Milton, and Lucifer and Satan
is real.
They're all real.
These are higher.
The Greek gods are real.
The Egyptian gods, you know, all that stuff, Stargate, they're all coming back.
It's all true.
These are all time.
Okay.
Let me explain.
Okay.
Let me give the content.
This is why the guys in the sad thing, this is those guys who Lazarus talking about.
They know this.
This guy, John Ramirez, who's CIA retired, he knows all this.
He's one of my supporters, John Ramirez, I have his email, he's just reminding, John.
What's happening is this.
The physics of UFOs, tic-tac, everything that the Congress with their idiots, they should
be talking to me.
They're so stupid.
Okay.
You listen to Jack, you call Jack.
Talk to me.
Okay.
You talk to me.
You don't need anyone else.
You talk to the safari.
Don't fuck with the safari.
All right.
But now seriously, all the physics of this stuff is very elementary.
All the physicists who are not stupid and who are not afraid, we all understand what's
going on here.
It's not hard to understand.
It's easy.
It's easy to understand this stuff.
That means we know that there are plenty of things.
We know there's life all over the place.
There's no question of that.
We know that?
Of course we know that.
How do we know that?
We know that.
As a theoretical physicist, I know it with almost 100, you know how I know it?
Because I know the laws of chemistry.
I know the laws of physics.
I know the DNA code.
This is universal.
It's called the Copernican principle, but we're not special.
This is all, we're not some special thing.
It happens all over the place.
It's just chemistry.
It's quantum mechanics.
It's Schrodinger's equation and things that's just going to evolve.
We pump energy in and the complex molecules form and the DNA code forms and we're here.
We're not so special.
We don't have any evidence of life.
Yes, we do.
How?
See, you don't understand how physics works.
I know from the laws of nature that it has to be.
But of course we know because I was...
You know because, right, because you know physics, you claim all this stuff, but we don't know
physics.
I don't know physics.
But then you have to take my word for it.
I know more than you.
You're a dumb little fuck who's only 38 years old and I'm 84 years old and I know things
that you don't know.
So learn.
Right, but explain to me.
Explain to me like I'm a third grader.
How?
See, because it was something called the Copernican principle.
People used to think that the earth was special and then the whole revolution in astronomy
with Isaac Newton and Copernicus is that we're not the center of the universe.
You're just like still like the medieval peasant who still thinks we're the center of the universe.
The physics of life is now, we have CRISPR, we have a genetic engineering, we know exactly
how it works.
Right.
So it's universal.
If that doesn't prove that there's life out there, that there's interdimensional life
or interplanetary life.
Yes, it proves it because we, of course it proves it.
If you believe in physics, it's gotta be.
This is not even controversial.
Even people who disagree about the aliens and the flying saucer at the time, even they
agree with me on this.
This is what I'm telling you now is mainstream now.
Anyone who, see you're not, what was your degree in college?
I went to college for six months and I dropped out.
Okay, so you don't know anything.
You don't know science.
You don't know.
Well, that's your job to explain it to me.
Yes, yeah.
Okay, so you got, but I can't, it took me 50 years to know this.
Right.
But what's the point of spending 50 years learning stuff if you can't explain it to
me?
Yeah, but what I'm explaining to you is you have to take my word for certain things because
this is, we can't do everything, we can't do a four-year thing in 30 minutes.
Right.
But the thing is, what I'm claiming to you is, and this is not just me, this is now
almost every scientist called, every, even the mainstream guys will say, we believe there's
life out there.
There's no, and we contradict everything we know about science if there wasn't.
In other words, when there are these golden light, when there are earth-like planets,
they may not look exactly like us, but there's going to be DNA for me because we know how
it forms.
It's inevitable.
So here's my point.
Let me make my point.
Okay.
I'm just going to make the point.
I don't want to argue with you because we don't, you don't want to waste.
No, this is great.
This is fun.
I love this.
All right.
But the point is this.
What we know, here's the story.
The physics and this stuff is so easy, and life is universal.
The DNA codes.
It's just quantum physics.
It's relative.
It's quite, it's just quite, it's chemistry.
It's just simple chemistry.
And so, and the stars, because all the stars are the same carbon, and, you know, we understand
stellar structure.
We don't have the stars.
We have the stars from the elements that lead to life.
We understand-
But we don't have the physical proof.
We don't have a-
Oh, we do.
That's what Commander Forever's showing you.
That's what these guys, Ryan Graves, are showing you.
Yeah, but there's so much disinformation.
No, no.
I forget that.
Okay.
Who knows what's real?
No, no, no.
Well, yes, there's some, but I, Sarfati, take it from me.
I know what's real.
How do you know?
How do you know?
I know because I'm a genius.
That's how I know.
I know because I'm a genius.
I know because I've been in direct contact with the aliens, with the time travelers, whatever
that.
I know.
Okay.
That's how I know.
I know.
It's exactly what they said I was going to happen.
It's all happening.
And I know because what I'm telling you is how I met these guys.
How do you explain that?
Okay.
Oh, we were hoping you would call.
They knew where it was going.
These guys, you see the CIA themselves, they're not in charge.
They're useful idiots like we're all puppets.
They're not the puppet mess.
They're the puppets.
They're maybe a little-
They're at different levels.
There's some puppets pulling strings of other puppets, you know what I mean?
So that's how they-
So I meet Hal Putt off.
Let's get back to this.
You'll see here that you could hear the tape where I'm meeting them in the talk.
I talk about UFO from the future.
And because it was Russell Targo who brought it up.
I didn't bring it up.
He brings it up.
Okay.
So there we are.
So how did-
Yeah.
I'm claiming that is smoking gun evidence for time travel.
In other words, what happened to me in 53, the computer science is going to begin to
meet these guys.
It happened exactly on cue.
And there's no other way to explain it.
And it turns out the CIA was involved at the highest levels.
But they're just as cool as they're.
Just as-
So you're saying that as far as like a hierarchical, a hierarchy of power in our world is the top
levels, the aliens, next levels, intelligence-
Yeah.
Well, I don't have to-
Okay.
There's a higher intelligence, they're more advanced than we are, and they've mastered
time travel.
I'm working on the equations of time travel.
That's what I'm doing.
That's what all this stuff is.
That's what they're doing at Lawrence Livermore now.
Okay.
They're testing my time travel equation.
Okay.
Okay.
It's elementary physics.
Okay.
You just got to take my-
I can yell and scream, but you just got to take my word for it.
I just want to understand it.
That's all.
Yeah.
You won't be able to understand.
You want too much too fast.
Okay.
You want to understand.
This took me, this took us 60 years, the smartest people though that still don't understand
it.
Right.
Right.
But I understand more than they do.
So the point is this, this is being, that's what the destiny matrix is, this high, the
tic-tacs, all these things the Navy is seeing and the Russians are seeing, they're neutralizing
our nuclear missiles.
Right?
This is all, this is all-
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's lots of documented cases of that.
So this is superior technology.
I'm developing the basic equations for this technology, for time travel, to neutralize
nuclear weapons, to go to warp drive, to go to Mars, you know, in 10 minutes we get to
Mars.
So, okay, going to the tic-tacs, what do you, who is controlling those tic-tacs?
The same people who contacted me in 1953, they're in control.
Who are those people?
Are those people-
I don't know who exactly who they are, I just know they're there.
I don't know everything, but I know enough.
Are they people from the future?
Well, yes, they're from the future.
I don't know if they're people, what do you mean by people?
I don't know.
Are they-
It said it was a conscious computer.
Are they from a conscious computer?
Well, yeah, so at least they're, you know, like terminated.
But you don't know where they're from?
They're from, they set up, well, in one case, some one guy, there's a whole side story where
it said it was a Ingalls swan, said it was 100 years in the future, and that was back
about 40 years ago, so it'll be 50, 60 years in the future.
Right by the end of the century.
Okay.
Okay.
Which makes sense, actually, because I think that's about when, you know, when all this
stuff will probably happen.
So assuming we don't knock ourselves out.
So but this gets back to your Bob Lazar story.
The guy saying that the alien had a sulfurous smell.
That's not Bob Lazar.
So yes, so-
Oh, that's a friend of yours.
My friend James Fox.
He made a documentary called The Knock Knock.
And he made a documentary.
James Fox talks about this guy with the cloth, the satanic, the demon.
No, no, no.
James Fox made a documentary called, is called The Roswell of Brazil.
And it was about in the 90s, the early 90s, there was two creatures that were discovered
by these girls that were walking through a field.
They saw this creature that reeked of sulfur.
And it was sitting there and it was like hurting and it was like telepathically communicating
with one of them saying it needed help.
And later there was another one captured, I think at the same day, maybe later in the
day by the military or by the police captured it alive, brought it to a hospital in Virginia,
Brazil.
And James interviewed the X-ray technician, a bunch of people that worked in the hospital.
They all said said that there's pictures, illustrations of what they saw and they said
people were in there taking photos and videos, although none of that's been released.
And they said that the hospital they're being reeked of and the hospital smelled like sulfur
for like weeks afterwards, even after the U.S. military came in and took it out.
This is exactly where John Milton got paradise lost and all these poetic things from Elizabethan
age and after that, this is all true.
All these stories have truth in them because, let me get the, life is everywhere, all different
kinds of life.
The physics is elementary, so as soon as any civilization anywhere that doesn't kill itself
with nuclear bombs, they'll develop this technology.
So this is exactly Star Trek.
This is Star Trek is real.
Gene Roddenberry was part of my, I didn't know him personally, Gene Roddenberry was influenced
by the same people that I was involved with, this guy, Andrea Pajaric, Oregala, all these
people connected.
I knew Francis Ford Coppola, who connected with Spielberg, close in Canada to the third
kind.
I'm the guy who got Jacques Valet to meet, connected with Spielberg, close in Canada
to the third kind.
So everything is connected.
All these science fiction things and Elrond Hubbard, they're all conditioning the public
for the actual context.
So there is no more science fiction.
Timothy Leary said it's science faction.
Okay.
Everything, all these movies.
Timothy Leary said that.
Yeah.
Timothy was part of our group too.
Oh, really?
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
There's a whole thing.
You gotta, actually some of it is in there.
You gotta, you gotta, well, we'll keep it down.
It's a complex story.
You can't tell it in like two hours really.
Yeah.
I knew Timothy Leary.
Timothy Leary said I was his heir.
Timothy Leary had, in fact there's a, the guy-
Did you ever try LSD?
Yeah.
A couple, yeah, but many years ago.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Two or three times.
Was that a part of any of these studies?
No.
Well, that's a whole other story.
I mean, I think this, actually it does, that involves strategic defense initiative.
But yeah.
It's an impulse, what?
The strategic defense initiative.
How so?
We got time.
Yeah.
Well, because at that point, it was in 1980s, we were working with the Reagan people.
And I was with this guy, one of my mentors, so to speak, was this guy named Marshall
Naife.
Billionaire.
Yeah.
What, it creates a, you know, movie theaters, cable television, you know, he created Comcast.
Comcast was all created by, you know, and Liberty Media and Dunk Trumbull worked for
him, you know.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, movies.
He and his brothers, his father was already, it was his father, grandfather, I guess his
father.
Yeah, no, it must have been his father.
His father in the 1890s in San Francisco, Barbary Coast, the Nickelodeons, you know, the first
movie, Nickelodeon, with the movies, you know, the first movies like this, okay?
And his father's friend was Giannini, Bank of America, that was then called the Bank
of Italy, became Bank of America.
Okay.
It was back like before World War, around World War I, okay?
And so Giannini gives money to Marshall Naife's dad, and they form United Artists Studios.
Back, you know, this is the silent movies, Douglas Fairbanks, you know, Charlie Chaplin,
all these guys, if you know the history of the movies at all.
And so this is so, you know, they're one of the primary families of the Hollywood.
Okay.
Okay.
And, okay, when Marshall was around 20 years old, like right before the war, 1938 or so,
his buddy, the whole Gary Cooper was?
No.
You don't know who Gary Cooper was, God, darkness at noon?
Who was he?
He's, Gary Cooper was, he's like the whole Cary Grant.
Oh.
God, you guys, I don't know, I, God, I feel, I feel like I'm, these are the famous 1930s,
20s, Hollywood.
Do you know who he is?
Cary Grant.
Yeah.
It's not familiar.
God, okay.
This is amazing.
Amazing.
What am I doing?
I'm on this planet.
I'm, I'm in the, I'm not, this is not my planet, guys.
Not my planet.
Okay.
Cary, okay.
Oh, I, I know Gary Cooper's daughter's friend of mine, if she heard this, she'd be shocked.
Sorry.
Yeah.
These are all famous Hollywood movie stars, the 1930s to 40s.
Okay.
Marilyn Monroe.
You know Marilyn, Marilyn Monroe?
Sounds familiar.
No, you're kidding there, right?
I know her.
Joe DiMaggio.
I mean, yeah, she was here, Marilyn Monroe.
Okay.
So in any case, so, so in any case, so Gary Cooper and Marshall, the kids, they go on
a tour of Europe and they're invited.
They meet the Queen of England and the King of Denmark.
I mean, these are the very highs.
When Franklin Delano Roosevelt came to San Francisco, he stayed at the Navy's house.
Okay.
Pacific Heights here.
You know, now we're Nancy Pelosi and Feinstein, they are the fancy mansions there.
And so, and any case, so it's now the early 1980s and Marshall is, he's kind of like,
he's like a shaman.
Now he really is kind of like a, like a puppet master type guy, you know, he's very psychic.
Remember, he's a billionaire, already back then he had a billion, more than a billion
dollar.
And so, and, and I did, and he was the, he did, he did LSD.
So I did LSD with Marshall about two or three times and we had time, we went back to ancient
Egypt times, all kinds of like interesting trips.
I was back in ancient Egypt with Marshall in an emerald temple, you know, it was like
that, you know, it was, that was the experience, you know, and then I was a knight in the Templars
and the Crusades.
It's all real, you know, so it's like the time travel meant the sort of stuff you read
what he's talking about in there, in that book, but what David Gladstone, give me, give
me the book for a minute, what David Gladstone, yeah, can you see it, what Gladstone talks
about in this book?
I actually had those experiences, I had some of those experiences on Amazon, I had some
of those same kind of experiences that Gladstone talks about, that sound crazy, with Marshall
Nafi, billionaire friend of Ronald Reagan, okay.
So what happened was, this is the back story of the strategic defense initiative.
And Kim Burrafato can confirm, Kim was there with me, Kim, you know, the guy you met with
Marshall, you know, can confirm everything, I'm telling you, witness, okay.
So and this guy, he wrote the book, he was part of it too.
So there's many witnesses to all this stuff.
And so I challenge anybody who wants to say Jack Sarfati is lying, you come and you, you
know, mano a mano, you face me and we'll discuss, okay.
So that's an open challenge.
Okay.
Want to duel with Sarfati?
I'll duel with you.
Okay.
All right.
So now, Ronald Reagan, okay, let's get to Ronald Reagan.
Ronald Reagan is the governor of California in the late 70s.
This guy named Laurie Chickering, he just died a week ago.
And Laurie Chickering comes, the Chickering family, the old Wasp family like Mayflower
type, you know, the role in New England, but they're here in San Francisco.
And Laurie's brother is high up, one of his brothers is already high up in the Central
Intelligence Agency.
Laurie goes to Yale, he's sculling bones and all that stuff, you know, and he's a close
friend of William F. Buckley Jr. I don't know if you know who that is.
I've heard of him.
Yeah, a national review, you know, and Laurie comes back to San Francisco.
And he is involved with Casper Weinberger, who became this Reagan secretary of defense,
Brent Scowcroft, general, who became head of, I think, Reagan's national security agency.
And who else?
Milton Friedman, economist Chicago, actually, that's maybe what he wants me to go to Chicago.
Milton Friedman, yeah.
And who was some of the other guys?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Who's the guy?
Donald Rumsfeld?
Right guy.
Oh, yeah.
And he was a good looking guy, but, you know, not that smart again.
Okay.
Donald Rumsfeld and who's the other one?
I'm leaving somebody important out.
Let's see.
It'll come to me.
And they set up a think tank where Reagan's still the governor, like 78, 79, called the
Institute for Contemporary Studies down here on Kearney Street, right near where Francis
Coppola has his building.
And they're the main thing.
They're connected with the Hoover at Stanford, the Hoover Institution.
And I became, I was kind of like their informal science guy.
And any case, they got, they're the main thing that they engineered when the main think tanks
had engineered Reagan getting into the White House.
So Reagan is the president now in 1980.
I think before he shot, was he already shot or after before that guy shot him?
It was like around 1980, 1981.
And Reagan's a close friend.
I mean, Marshall had just called the White House and he wants to start, Ronnie, hey Ronnie,
you know what, it's Marshall.
It's that kind of thing.
Okay.
And all these guys had the Caf Trieste, where I showed you, everybody's hanging out
there at the Caf Trieste.
Okay.
Wow.
Okay.
Coppola, Francis Coppola.
Whenever when Rester Koff came, you know, with Julie Chrissy, anybody from Hollywood
Com say, that's the hangout.
And another place called Enrico Benducci's down the street, Enrico was kind of a night
club.
And so any case, at one point, so yeah, so now Marshall, for example, if a guy named,
if Coppola wanted to make a movie, you find Marshall's like the, you know, the finance,
you want to make a big movie, Hollywood movie, talk to Marshall, talk to the Navy brothers
first.
Okay.
You know, James Bond, the James Bond movies.
Yes.
Okay.
Do you ever see, but Sean Connery?
Of course.
Okay.
Well, Marshall was, Al Broccoli made those movies.
Sean Connery was his silent partner because he was, by law, for taxes or something, they
see, you can have movie theaters and be not supposed to do movies, production, yet they
split it from Monopoly Reed, whatever, any case.
We had, Marshall had one of the, you know, the, the old movies, the black Aston Martin
that, the convertible that, that, that he drives.
There were four of those made for the movies, four of those.
We had one of them.
Marshall had one in his car.
Oh wow.
Okay.
So Marshall's a powerful man.
It's like, you know, by this, but this is now 1980.
He helped Reagan get into power and, you know, I'm not, I'm smoking dope with driving around
his, shall we go to Mount Tam, get stoned.
And he was, he said, even, even Angelical Christian, he's trying to get ready to listen.
Right.
Right.
Right.
And the dope, the dope Phil Jaguar, you're trying to around listening to, you know, Jesus
going to save you, man.
So, and that's why, you know, we, we tried LSD a couple of times, you know, I had time
travel trips.
All right.
And he's Lori, trickery, is now running the Institute for Contemporary Studies.
And for some reason, he wants to meet, have lunch with Marshall, it's some project I wanted
to meet Marshall.
So he says, Lori says, can you arrange a lunch?
We'll have lunch at Enrico's, who's a close friend of Marshall, because all the movie
stars would hang out, you know, on Broadway back then, Woody Allen, you know, what kinds
of people and Mort Saul.
And so I ran to lunch and we were having lunch sitting around this round table and Enrico
who plays the violin and he cooks, he's cooking pasta for everybody.
And it's like right out of a Godfather movie, you know, sitting around there.
And Marshall was stoned at the time.
Maybe I was stoned too, I don't know, because we probably spoke before we went to lunch.
But Lori was straight.
Lori didn't, you know, he doesn't know any of this stuff.
He doesn't know about, you know, he's a very straight, you know, running, you know, neocon
type.
And we didn't know, Marshall had just made a movie with Al Broccoli and Sean Connery
called Meteor.
You can see it, 1980 or so, 1981.
So Marshall's talking, they're talking about Marshall and he's kind of like a reverie and
he says, you know, what if, it's Marshall, what if the extraterrestrials were going to
attack us?
They were coming.
Marshall.
This is like, you know, he's thinking in this movie, there was a meteor was going to come
to him.
But Marshall says, what if there was, and what if, you know, it's just cold war is on.
He says, what if we had to get together with Russia to fight the ETs, you know, and we got
the laser, we missiles and we shoot down the flying saucers with the laser beams and all
that stuff.
But he was talking, he had just made a movie, but it's kind of as stuff was in the movie,
it was science fiction for him.
But he was just talking.
So, see, this is all being arranged in the future.
This couldn't, yeah, I mean, this, you know, this.
So, so Lori, okay, so we had the lunch, Marshall leaves and Lori and I'd be like working, you
know, the lawyers give me a little bit of money, you know, living on the edge, Bohemians,
you'll see, he talks about it in there, that book.
Lori says, hey, Jack, that was pretty interesting.
You write up what, what Marshall was talking about.
So I have a little thing and I was working on stuff too about neutralizing nuclear weapons
with laser beams.
I was working on that myself.
So I put in some of my stuff and then also in there, I say, and with this new technology,
you know, safari space, even then, I didn't have it the way I have it now, but this new
thing, we can, we can render nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete, which is what the tic-tacs
are doing already.
You see it already.
I already had that back in 1980.
It's in this memorandum that I wrote.
Okay.
So it's a short thing.
I give it to Lori.
A few weeks go by, I'm walking into the cafeteria where I took you where we met Kim last night.
Lori comes up to be excited, says, hey, Jack, well, he's, you know, he doesn't talk like
that.
I mean, he's, you know, he's a aristocrat, you know, and he says, you know, I gave that
report to Paul Neetza, if you look at Paul Neetza, N-I-T-Z-E, was the main arms control,
you know, security guy for Reagan advising him on, on how to deal with the Russians and
stuff like that.
Okay.
Okay.
And, and Neetza really liked it.
Okay.
So went right to Reagan, okay.
This report.
And when Reagan found out that Marshall Daifey, who's his buddy from Hollywood, I say, in
fact, in fact, okay, now Edward Teller, Edward Teller was all, Edward Teller was pushing
for this stuff, missile defense and lasers, this is all.
Right.
Okay.
And here Marshall's talking about it too.
So Marshall may have known about Teller.
He may have known a little bit about it.
Didn't they have some sort of program they were working on with DARPA where they wanted
to create some sort of like dome around the United States?
No way.
No way.
Don't, don't, just stay on this.
That's what we're doing now.
That's what I'm doing.
Okay.
But wait, that's what Sarfati Space Corp as well.
I read about this though in that DARPA book that they worked on this back in the back
of the day.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, but they didn't have, because that was me.
That was my people.
I mean, I know that they didn't have it.
They didn't have it.
They didn't have it.
They thought about it.
It was psychological warfare.
We were thinking about it.
Yeah.
Okay.
But it never happened.
Well, the iron dome, you know, that's, yeah, the iron dome, the missiles against missiles.
That's something else.
I'm talking about something else.
I'm talking about some sort of like force field.
Force field.
Yeah.
Exactly.
All right.
Wait a second.
Okay.
Wait.
Let me finish this.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
The answer is yes, I'm the guy for that.
Okay.
I'm the guy who knows how to do that.
Okay.
Basically, all right.
All right.
Basically is what I'm saying.
All right.
So now, and I, and anybody wants to challenge me, you come.
I don't care who the hell you are.
You come, you know.
You're here to hear folks.
Yeah.
You come and we'll talk about all this.
We'll talk about it in front of a million people.
Okay.
All right.
So now, so, but let's get back to this.
So, so at the same time, Paul Neitz has taken this memorandum, I wrote, and then Edward
Teller has a biography, his autobiography called Dark Matters.
And Teller is talking about how he was trying to get Reagan to go for strategic defense initiative
and Reagan, you know, so I found out later, Reagan did not trust Teller.
Reagan thought, because Reagan always was wondering, well, you know, maybe he's a double
agent or whatever.
You know, he was a little paranoid about Teller.
And Teller says in his book, he was out of the loop.
He doesn't know.
He was totally shocked when Reagan finally went executive order, whatever it was, for
strategic defense initiative.
That's because of the Sarfati memo with Marshall Nafi's name on it, that, you know, I guess
Reagan spoke to Marshall, you know, Marshall's his buddy, trusts Marshall.
They, you know, they would, they would drink, you know, they would socialize together back
in, you know.
And so, but also at that time, Cap Weinberger, who was then the secretary of defense, I already
had a following then kind of, you know, and Cap Weinberger's son, Cap Jr. was, you know,
like part of my fan club.
Okay.
So all this crap is writing a bunch of crazy stuff out all this stuff and UFOs and, you
know, and EPR and, you know, communication with submarines and untappable.
It's all, it's all in the, it's all in the book, How the Hippie Stay Physics.
And, and so all of my, my writings was also going directly to the secretary of defense,
Cap Weinberger through his son, Cap Jr. would take, you know, Cap Jr. was, well, I want
to make it too much.
It was like Hunter Biden and, and, and, and Joe Biden, except they weren't crooks.
I don't think.
Okay.
But my, it was like Hunter Biden was, was, was Cap Jr.
But he wasn't a dope addict.
And, you know, he's a straight guy.
Okay.
And in fact, he's still alive.
He should try to find him.
I don't know what happened to him because Cap Jr. can confirm, he actually confirmed
this guy, this guy, Bill Burns, who did history channel, the UFOs, you know, Bill Burns.
Do you have me a Bill Burns?
Any case.
Talking about William Burns, the director of the CIA.
No, no, it's a different Bill Burns.
Okay.
That's, that's, that's sort of a different, but see if you can find, you know, the, the
CIA, see if Jim Angleton will know how to find Cap Weinberger Jr.
He's probably still alive.
I could actually find him.
I could find him.
I have.
Okay.
But, but we should try to find him because he can confirm all this stuff.
And, and, and Cap Jr. was telling us that he would fly to Camp David with his dad, Cap,
and the president, and they would spend weekends at Camp David, and they would go over some
of my stuff.
Okay.
You know, the writings, they would discuss it.
And also, and then in, in, in Reagan's, uh, I think it's his 1984, maybe it's 1986, State
of the Union.
He talks about me.
He doesn't.
He says, and we know the physicists, they have touched the face of God.
They show how God exists in their recovery.
I was talking about all that stuff, all this religion, you know, all that stuff.
And, uh, and about, you know, Star Wars and all this stuff that we're going to do, you
know, he, he gets a very inspiring talk based on Jack Sarfati's information that he was getting.
And I even have a letter from Cap Weinberg thanking me for my work, superluminal, all
this stuff.
All right.
So, it had direct, so, okay.
So of course we, the Russians were following all of this, the Russians, see, the Russians
were involved in all this.
How so?
Because we had back channels.
We would be in talking to Russians, the Russians were already at excellence.
See, the Russians already knew about me back in the, the Russians already, okay.
We were already, the Russians first contacted us in the early, in 1975 at around the same
time that Kubin's telling me, you know, we want you to work on this because we did a
book that we did a book about Uri Gela called space time and beyond.
It sold a couple of hundred thousand copies that influenced Hollywood.
That's how I met Ellie Coppola because that book, you know, that's how I came up with Coppola.
That's how, that's how Jacques Valet got involved and everything.
It's all being orchestrated by this higher power, okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's just, this can't happen.
It's not a random thing.
All these strange, what Jung called synchronicities, all these strange coincidences happening.
It's all kind of connected.
Like I know Jack, I know, I know Frank Molina who was Jack Parsons' partner and I stayed
with Frank Molina in Paris at his place, at his beautiful place, you know, and you know,
he is, you know, so I mean, he's all, everybody's connected to everybody, you know, and it's,
and L. Rod Hubbard and I drive, everybody were like one, two or three connections away.
So if you look through a web of who knows who, you'll see it's a tight web, like a tight
spider web, destiny.
I call that the destiny matrix.
It's not, it's not random.
It's being orchestrated.
Why did you, you told me that the Russians came here to interview you about some stuff.
Yeah.
Well, that's, that's what, that's more recently, wait, let's go back.
The first Russian thing is we have this book, which is basically a CIA engineered book, right,
which I didn't know at the time.
Obviously, what's called a useful idiot, not really, so it is suspecting, but not, you
know, not knowing for sure, all right, because it didn't come out publicly that the, that
what they were doing with Geller was CIA and Mossad until much later.
Now it's, it's in that book, you know, it's in their books.
These are books, that third eye spy, or Geller has books, you know, so now it's all public
information.
Then it wasn't, and I wasn't even sure.
I suspected, but I wasn't sure.
So, so the book comes out, Space Abbey, which we wrote in Paris, and, and EP Dutton.
And in there, we have this thing about bio, bio, biogravity.
I don't know, it's some crazy thing that, that Bob told was into, I kind of went along
with it.
Yeah.
Fred went along with it.
And Bob, oh yeah, the, what's this guy, Dan Whitehead.
Dan Whitehead was the editor at Dutton Books in Manhattan, and Dan Whitehead gets a call
from the, I guess the Russian embassy in New York, saying we are concerned that the Tobin
and Wolf Safari, they wrote this book about bio fields, and I could, but they didn't give
us credit.
And we had this Russian side, that's his theory, and they didn't give us credit.
That's our first overt contact.
Yeah.
Why didn't we give them credit?
This is, you know, so we get, sorry, you know, give them credit, you know, we didn't
know, you know, that sort of thing.
So that's the first overt thing.
And then it was all, and that's, then, already, now, let's see, so how do we know, well, okay,
so then in the 1980s, okay, then, like, this is now after, after this stuff with Reagan
around, yeah, just when Reagan gave that State of the Union speech in 1986 or so, they
wanted to ask, okay, so now, at that point, there was no internet, there was Xerox machines,
and I would, you know, it was the way, through emails, I was doing like Xerox, I had like
a network with this guy, Ira Einhorn, and so I was at, I remember, I was down at Washington
Square, there was a Xerox store there, where there's now the Victoria Bakery, and I was
like Xeroxing stuff to mail out, you know, it was a crazy period, and I get a guy, it
has to be on the shoulder, it's a guy, Harold Chipman, Harold Chipman, now, look him up
and look at me, Harold Chipman, Harold Chipman was Chief of Station of the Central Intelligence
Agency Office in San Francisco, okay, no, this is like over, and it couldn't be more
right then, right, so yeah, you know, I look out there and there he is, says who he is,
you know, he says, we go to the cafe, you know, and he says he wants, he wants to, this
is like, now, you know, it's official, it's a CIA, I even went to the CIA office with
him a couple, in fact, I started, I wanted a date, there was a pretty CIA agent, a woman,
who I went to Gold's Cafe, yeah, I was hitting on her, you know, this was a relationship
going on.
Good ol' honey trap.
Well, no, but she was already, you know, we were just friends, nothing ever happened,
but you know, I would have liked something to happen, we went drinking at bars a couple
of times, you know, and she became, she actually went pretty high up, I think, she still may
be alive, she still may be in, probably retired, I don't know, and damn, so in any case, so
I was involved with, you know, I used to hang out, you know, I was involved with all these
CIA guys in San Francisco, so, and at that point, you know, I even have documents on
this, and at that point, they wanted to set up, oh, just like now, the Sarfati Institute
to work on all this stuff, you know, all this, you know, communication with submarines,
with the fast solve entanglement, you know, like what's now called quantum information
theory, quantum computing, we had all the quantum spin computing, we all had the idea
of quantum computing already, all right, and he wanted to set up, and so he took me, okay,
so Chipman, he was Catholic, old Catholic, maybe with the coat of arms, and he was a
member of Opus Dei, which is like the Catholic guy with the Pope, you know, back in, he's
coming with the Vatican, that's how you know, and also the Knights of Malta, the Knights
of Malta, all right, and he was a member, I don't, you know, with the club, the Explorers
Club in Washington, D.C., it's like the Bohemian Grove sort of thing, type thing in Washington,
D.C., he was a member of the Explorers Club, and he, now it turns out, he was also involved
in the MK Ultra CIA experiments at LSC in San Francisco, how was he involved with that?
He was running into something when he was an early CIA, he was one of the guys in charge
of it.
What?
Yeah, yes, and then he also was the guy behind the CIA operation, had to stand for it with
Hal Putoff and all these guys, okay, he was behind, this guy, Harold Chipman.
Harold Chipman?
Hal Chipman, they call him Chip, Chip.
Chip, Harold Chipman.
Chipman, Harold Chipman, you look him up, but he was a real James Bond, he was like
a guy when he was younger, he was like, you know, he was, went into Russia soon, and they
attacked in the Ural Mountains, this is during, before I met him, they went in and they did
an operation trying to get secrets on some bioweapon that they were working on in the
Ural Mountains and something went wrong, and hundreds of Russians were killed, inadvertently,
the team got screwed up, and he felt very guilty about that because it was not meant
to happen, it was like to go in, get the information, get out without anybody even knowing, but
something went wrong, and as a result, hundreds of people, maybe thousands of people died
in this secret Soviet bioweapons lab back, I don't know when it was, okay, that all to
be led, how was assassinated by the KGB before what I was doing, you know, because it was
payback, and they said, and he kind of, they poisoned him, like the Polonium poison, what
they do, like this guy, he was poisoned that way, and as he was dying, he got a call from
the Soviet council here, who was here back then, saying, how are you doing, you know,
and they couldn't prove, but he, at that point, he felt so, he really affected him because
you know, how do you know about all this stuff with him, how do you know about all this,
he told me, he told you all this, of course, I'm not making it up, so like when he was
dying from this poison, he called you up and told you, well, we already know, well, yeah,
well, there's another guy, this guy, Riley's another guy who was part of our group, who
was close to him, and this involves Iran, Contra and weapons deals, and I know all kinds
of stuff about what was going on back then, you know, with the Iran Contras, this is all,
everything's involved, and I was on the edge of all that stuff, you know, and, and, and
this is guys, Stephen, you have to interview Stephen Schwartz, that'd be something, but
in any case, so what was happening, he wanted to, Hal was trying to set up, he took me to
University of San Francisco, father Joseph Petzio, who is the head of the, I guess, the
Jesuit order, you know, at University of San Francisco, I met father Petzio, Joseph Petzio,
and they were going to set up this institute, think tank, for me to work on all the stuff
that we're doing now, actually, back then in the 1980s, and if you look, I could show
you who he's had, Roosevelt, one of the Roosevelt guys, one of the sons of FDR was involved,
I actually have the stuff, and all these guys from the, Ray Klein, all these top guys from,
from Wall Street, you know, who are going to be on the board of directors, we're all
set up, this whole thing set up, and it would have happened, but then he was suddenly, he
got Polonia, whatever, he died, so that's it, it's happening again now, it's happening
now, right, but this is back then, it was supposed to happen, but it didn't happen,
all right, so now it's happening now, all right, so you know, there's, in fact, let
me, wait, is my book this the Matrix? Do you see the book this the Matrix? Oh yeah,
let me just see if I can find it. There it is, yeah. Yeah, this is still, can you see
this? Everything I'm telling you is in this book, you get this on Amazon. Okay. It's
actually being redone, there's a new edition that's being, it'll be expanded, this stops
in 2002. Look at that man, what a cover. Yeah, it stops in 2002. What is that little guy
in the front of it? I don't know, that's just some, time traveler. So this is my Chipman
here, and this is a thing, hey, let me just see. The Sarfati Institute, this institute
proposed to be located at the University of San Francisco, be funded by the Sarfati Corporation,
they're bringing in money with it. Goals of the Institute, the goals, and this is an official
CIA thing, goals of the Institute to conduct basic research in the quantum physics of non-local
phenomena discovered by Albert Einstein in 1935, the Einstein-Bedalski-Rosen-Bohm effect.
And to develop applications of the basic mathematics and physics research into patents
for untappable, unjamable command control communications, six generation quantum spin
correlation supercomputers, this is 1985. Okay, but get this, quantum zero point energy
release for interstellar rocket engines, super technology for the strategic defense initiative,
SDI, to reduce the possibility of nuclear war, pi orbital electron spin control of recombinant
genetic engineering. This is like CRISPR now, is that okay? This is 40 years ago. Manipulation
of Hoile-Gertl loops in time, that's the warp drive stuff, and that's flying sources.
I want to talk to you about that real quick.
Okay, but wait, let's finish this, otherwise it gets too scattered. The other fundamental
applications as they emerge from the basic research program, the style of the institute,
this is the highest levels of people involved in this thing, okay? Top minds, both established
and up and coming, should be paid to come and conduct research in an environment where
they are unafraid to speculate. Remember, I didn't write this stuff, this is written
by the CIA.
Unafraid to speculate, that's interesting.
Yeah, okay, this is important, this is ahead of its time. Seminars, both formal and informal,
shall take place, entertaining educational media shall be developed for the public. Sounds
like Two The Stars Academy now, right?
Scientists, poets, artists, political theorists, philosophers, military and intelligence officers,
politicians, captains of industry, theologians shall be gathered together for workshops on
the cultural impact of breakthroughs in the new physics. This is exactly like the Bohemian
Grove.
That's what happens at Bohemian Grove?
Yeah, that's pretty much what happens at Bohemian Grove. This is public now. Oppenheimer,
the way the Manhattan Project started, I don't know if they'd have this in the movie, Oppenheimer
gave a speech up in this chalet, I've been there, the chalet, all these top generals
and politicians in 1941 and 42, saying with the salaud paper that we have to build the
atomic bomb. It was all done through the Bohemian Grove, through Bohemian Club, which
is a club down here.
Now, just let me, okay, I'm not going to, but let me say the people, some of the people,
some of the people, and this is important, some of the people, okay, banking, senior
partner, Paul Berry Associates. You've got to look these guys up.
That's cool.
Okay, this is his background, the C.L.C. I used to buy, some of the other people who
he was involved, okay, science, Arthur Shallow, Nobel Prize, one of the lasers, Shallow,
military, E.B. Roberts, Johnson & Johnson, these are the religious father, Joseph Pescius,
the religion's already here, right? So everything that guys tell you, there it is. It's right
here. This is the Vatican, okay? Political, Dr. Ray Klein, you look up who Ray Klein is,
senior associate, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Georgetown University.
You look up who Ray Klein is, this is a big shot, okay? These are friends, these are Chipman's
buddies.
Oh, wow.
Okay? The economic, Donald Hile, okay, economic, oh, yeah, Archibald B. Roosevelt, Jr.,
Archibald B. Roosevelt, you know, a son of the FDR, is part of this project. Chester
Bunnell, John G. Altenberg, oh, Altenberg, Altenberg's a famous guy, okay. So this is,
you know, here, this is the actual document that I reprinted in this book that shows you
what the C.L.C. was into, and it was actually, it would have been great had it happened.
It sort of happened, but haphazard, and it's now happening again, they're trying to do
it again.
It's now happening right now.
It's now happening, and that is the...
You were trying to explain to me last night when I was asking you about the Grush testimonies
and all the stuff that he was saying, and I was explaining to you that I was highly skeptical
of the whole thing, the fact that they made it this big dog and pony show on national
television, and, you know, I always question it. When the government starts to get behind
it, I always question motives and what's going on.
If I say the government, there is no such thing anymore. There's no government. We're
in a state of chaos.
All right, guys, that brings us to the end of part one of my conversation with Jack Sarfati.
That's right, we have an entire second part of this conversation dropping next week. Jack
and I get deep into the new UFO whistleblower disclosures, some black-budget DARPA programs,
and Jack is going to illustrate exactly how his UFO warp drive equation works. You're
not going to want to miss it.
Please hit the subscribe button as well as the bell so you can get notified as soon as
the episode drops. I'll see you next week.
