Hello, Andrew Bustamante.
It's good to be back, brother.
Welcome back, dude.
I appreciate it.
Before we start, tell the new listeners and or viewers who you are and what your background
is.
Yeah, absolutely.
My name is Andrew Bustamante.
I'm the founder of EverydaySpy.com.
I am a former covert CIA intelligence officer, and now I teach people spy skills for everyday
life and everyday use to get an unfair advantage at work, in security, and life is good for
me, man.
What part of the CIA, what division of the CIA were you in, and what exactly were you
doing in the CIA?
Yeah, so CIA doesn't have your traditional divisions like you would think of with like
the Army or the Navy or the Air Force.
CIA is all covert, but there's general breakdowns by directorate.
So I came from what was called the National clandestine service, NCS.
It's also sometimes called the directorate of operations.
But we are the undercover field operative kind of element of CIA.
So one of the main reasons, one of the main things I want to talk to you about today obviously
is this whole thing going on with Russia and Ukraine, this whole war.
What is your take on everything that's going on over there and what the U.S. narrative
is?
Yeah.
So it's funny, I'm super hot on this topic right now, and I'm also very hot about the
fact that like people are speaking out against Spotify hosting Joe Rogan because people on
Joe Rogan's podcast disagreed with the mainstream narrative about COVID or whatever.
So if I get you kicked off of Spotify, I'm very sorry.
You definitely won't.
We'll probably get kicked off of YouTube, but that's okay.
We have way more viewers on Spotify than on YouTube.
So here's the thing, right?
What's happening between Russia and Ukraine?
It's not news.
It's not news.
News is supposed to be new and it's supposed to be unexpected.
What the hell were people thinking was going to happen between Russia and Ukraine?
Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014.
They took Crimea and they promised they'd be back.
Crimea used to belong to Ukraine, right?
There's been this separatist group of Russian sympathizers in Ukraine for a long time.
This is not new news.
Putin has made Ukraine a priority of his military and political ambitions since he
took office and I think it was 2000.
This is not new.
This is just the inevitable outcome of promises that were made by a strong arm dictator, essentially
a strong arm politician.
So the fact that people are acting surprised, the fact that people are acting shocked and
bamboozled is just ridiculous because there's no reason for us to be surprised that this
has happened.
And it's going to keep happening.
This has happened in Georgia in 2008.
It's happening in Ukraine right now.
Every former Soviet state is a target, especially if it is not currently backed by NATO because
that's what Putin has committed to, rebuilding, not a Soviet Union.
He's not trying to rebuild the USSR.
He's just trying to insulate Russia from an encroaching Western and European threat.
It is absolutely and totally predictable and expected.
Did you listen to that hour long speech that he gave the other day about why he's doing
this?
No, it's funny.
So the other thing to keep in mind is that in a country like Russia, 90% of what you
hear is rhetoric.
It's propaganda.
It's spoken for a population base that is largely uninformed or heavily propagandized.
So they're not really a free thinking independent group.
It's like listening to Hitler talk to Nazis.
They weren't a free thinking group.
They were a highly emotional, heavily slanted, heavily biased group of kind of an ignorant
mass.
So I did not listen to his hour long speech.
What I did is I took highlights out of that speech that I thought were super fascinating.
The most fascinating highlight was when he talked about how the Ukrainian military, he
called upon them to remember that they were Russian first and that they wouldn't be harmed
if they just laid down their weapons and let the Russian military come through.
What we're forgetting, again, in the whole way that this isn't news, I love talking about
it because I love challenging the fact that right now Americans, international Europeans,
everybody around the world right now is getting bent over and smacked by media.
We're all clicking on headlines.
We're all being blasted advertisements.
We're all being told information that is accurate but incomplete.
It's not necessarily mal or misinformation.
It's just incomplete information, errant information.
But we're being fed this narrative just to keep us clicking, just to keep us worried,
just to keep us afraid.
It's a traditional, what we call in CIA, an influence campaign.
And this is what media is doing to us right now.
And they're using every media outlet to keep us glued to an event that is inconsequential
to 99% of the planet.
What is your take being a former CIA operative who's traveled the globe, spent time in various
countries when you see the media, especially the New York Times and a bunch of other outlets
up to the last week, in the last few weeks, the last month, it just seems like they've
been instigating this thing or just been talking about it's going to happen.
It's going to happen.
It's going to happen.
It seems like our media has been escalating it.
And then not only that, from Putin's perspective, when you see the United States and the UK
drop billions of dollars of weapons and military training into the Ukraine, how does that make
you feel when you see shit like that happen?
Yeah.
So I want to be very careful here because I'm not worried about my reputation or I'm
not worried about anything like that.
I want to be careful because the narrative coming from Putin and the secondary narrative
coming out of China right now are very important narratives that I want to get into.
And I want to make sure the whole world, everybody listening, understands those two narratives.
That is the narrative that says that this was escalated because of our media.
There's no way you cannot escalate what's known as an interstate war.
This is considered an interstate war.
The sovereignty of one nation being invaded by another nation, interstate.
Not the same thing as a civil war.
Civil wars are called intrastate wars.
This is an interstate war.
That cannot be escalated by media and rhetoric and saber-addling.
It takes someone making the conscious decision to invade someone else's sovereignty for
interstate war to happen.
So I say that because what you saw, what we all saw happen in media in the last few weeks
was a major mistake on the hands of the Biden administration.
And I don't think, I mean, you can think whatever you want about the current president.
His foreign policy decisions for the last two years have been flawed.
And it's difficult to manage foreign policy in a country that doesn't care about foreign
policy.
We're Americans.
We care about American policy.
We care about domestic policy.
We care about economy.
We care about public health.
We don't really care what happens to the rest of the world.
The citizens care about that, not necessarily the politicians.
Kind of the other way around.
The citizens don't care.
I mean, honestly, anybody listening, as you and I sit here, we don't care about Ukrainians,
dude.
We don't care about what's happening in Ukraine.
We don't care about Russians.
Tomorrow morning, what we care about is, are we going to make money in our business?
Are my kids safe?
Can I drive to work?
What's the price of gas?
That's what I meant.
That's what I meant.
Oh, okay, cool.
So yeah, we're saying the same thing.
It seems like the politicians are the ones that are always worried about what's going
on overseas.
They're not so much worried about homelessness or anything that's going on inside education
or anything like that.
They're more worried about spending billions of dollars in the Ukraine.
Yeah.
Well, they're interested in looking like a world power.
Because when you're powerful, people see you as secure and stable.
Where do people want it?
The world wants to invest in the most stable, most powerful country.
So the United States is rich because everybody invests in the United States.
Chinese invest here, Russians invest here, Brazilians invest here, Mexicans, everybody
with money invests in American companies, American property, American policy.
You know, we hold a seat in the UN Security Council.
We're a major player in NATO.
We're the big powerful dog.
We're the global superpower.
Everybody wants to put their money, everybody wants to bet on the winning horse.
If you lose that front runner position, people are going to invest in someone else.
Russia's tactics are to make themselves look big and strong so that they can win more of
the world's wealth.
China's desires are to look super strong so they can win more of the world's wealth.
Because if you have people investing in you, it's just like being the biggest company on
the block.
So the reason I'm kind of coming back to this is because the media narrative isn't what
got people spun up.
The media narrative isn't what made Russia invade Ukraine.
Russia was going to invade Ukraine.
The mistake that Biden made is that he came out and publicly exposed that he had received
an intelligence report that the invasion was coming soon.
If you recall, in early February, mid-February, he made an announcement.
He was like, hey, we just got an intelligence report that says the invasion is going to
happen any day now.
Once he said that, everybody picked up that narrative.
Any day now, they're going to invade any day.
It could be tomorrow.
It could be the next two days.
It could be in the next few weeks.
It's all anybody would talk about.
I remember seeing headlines day after day after day saying, any day now, any day now,
any day now.
That's not news either.
That's just what gets the whole world watching because now it's like if you could imagine
a new Avengers movie coming out where every single day a new headline is talking about,
hey, the next Avengers movie is dropping tomorrow.
Everybody's going to keep checking.
Oh, did it drop yet?
Did it drop yet?
Did it drop yet?
That's exactly what happened inadvertently because Biden decided to say he was probably
trying to do a deterrent early action deterrent move to keep Russia from invading.
But either way, in hindsight, it wasn't a great call.
You think it was really to keep Russia from invading?
It doesn't seem like what we did was to keep Russia from invading.
It seemed like it was more of a provoke.
Again, this is why I want to ... My company, Everyday Spy, is there to teach people how
espionage works and how you can see it play out in everyday life.
It is provocative in terms of it being interesting to basically come out and say, we have intelligence
that says this is going to happen.
That is a provocative move in terms of it being interesting, and everybody wants to pay attention
to that.
I believe that the Biden administration came out and said that because they wanted everybody
to pay attention to it because now what that would do is put pressure on Russia not to
invade because he just took away their element of surprise.
If you look at the strategy happening in Ukraine right now, first of all, it's the exact same
strategy that was applied in Georgia in 2008 when they invaded Georgia.
Almost verbatim, almost the exact same strategy.
We can talk about that if you want to.
It's very similar to what they did in Crimea in 2014, but this is the Russian MO.
We know the Russian MO.
They have a way of doing this, and it works for them.
Again, we can talk about any and all of this if you want to, Danny.
The reason that Biden and the media, they were not provoking Russia.
That is Russian propaganda.
That is Chinese propaganda to try to get the world to think that the US is at fault for
Russia's decisions.
It is not true.
It is not true.
Can you think of it from Putin's point of view, when you see the UK and the US dropping
billions of dollars worth of weapons and military training on its own border, wouldn't
you put yourself in Putin's shoes?
Don't you think that's more of a provocation?
That's more of a provocation than the media saying that Russia's going to invade.
Biden coming out and saying Russia's going to invade.
That's not a provocative move.
Dropping a bunch of money, taking Ukrainian special forces and starting to train them
with US troops and elite.
That is a provocative move.
But it is actually a threatening move because Russia was already invested in the conflict
for the last 15 or 20 years because they have Russian sympathizers, Russian separatists
in those two communities, Donetsk and whatever the other one was, Lenonsk or something like
that.
Those two breakaway groups are already essentially fighting for independence, fighting for separation,
fighting to become part of the Russian Federation again against the Ukrainians.
So when he sees investment in troops and when he sees actual support directly to the Ukrainian
military infrastructure, that is for sure a threat against those independent nations.
That was another mistake of the Biden administration to start pouring a bunch of money and training
into a region that already had a legitimate military intrastate conflict because now that
gave Russia essentially the international go ahead to say if the United States is going
to support the Ukrainians, we're going to support the separatists.
That validated his ability to go in and essentially name those two breakaway regions as independent
states, which is what started the whole conflict, if you recall, just a few days ago.
Who were the separatists?
The separatists were.
So Ukraine used to be part of the Soviet Union.
So when the Soviet Union fell in 1991, many of the states became independent on their
own because the Soviet Union didn't exist anymore.
So when those states became independent, it's almost like what happened after World
War II when we started drawing these artificial lines throughout the Middle East.
Just because you claim a place as Ukraine, it doesn't mean all the people identify as
Ukrainian.
Inside the country of Ukraine, only about 70% of the people think of themselves as Ukrainian.
20%, 25% almost think of themselves as Russian.
Right.
And most of them speak Russian.
Exactly.
They're close to Russian.
So what happens when you are a Russian not living in a country that lives by Russian
rules?
Now you feel out of place.
That is a very common problem in interstate conflict.
It's very similar to what happened in Sudan when Sudan split, because some people believed
differently than what the other people in the state believed in, Hutus and the Tuthids.
These were two groups of people going back to colonial days that were forced to live
in the same region, even though they didn't identify with each other.
It's what's happening right now in Ukraine.
It's what happened in Georgia.
It's the reason the Georgia conflict in 2008 erupted.
There's these groups of people who identify as Russian, but they're being forced to follow
non-Russian rules, non-Russian expectations, and they're suffering already in poor corrupt
governments.
So when you have a poor corrupt government, and it's so poor and so corrupt it looks to
Russia for stability, that's how you get a separatist group.
And that's what the Ukraine is.
That's what happened on the west side, the east side of Ukraine.
Those two regions were full of separatists that wanted to be independent or wanted to
return to the Russian Federation, but Ukraine was not willing to recognize them.
That's why there's been a conflict there since 2000, early 2000s, that erupted essentially
that in the invasion of Crimea was just an escalation of that existing internal strife.
It's much deeper than people think, and the headlines don't talk a lot about that because
it's not sexy.
History is not sexy, but history is what writes the predictable patterns for tomorrow.
And that's another thing I think is so interesting.
Russia took Georgia in 2008.
They took a chunk of Georgia, I forget the name of the province, starts with an O.
With the same methodology, they invaded Georgia under the same auspices, a separatist group
inside Georgia was under attack or being threatened by the Georgian military.
They called for help from Russia, Russia announced them as independent and then flooded in support.
Same exact thing.
And what did we do about that?
Exactly what we're doing now.
It was the same thing.
Nothing.
Same playbook.
Same playbook.
I mean, I'm guessing anybody who's ever played high school sports knows that if you've got
the playbook of your next competitor, you know what they're going to do.
So then you're the one in control of the game.
You choose the plays that they can't counter and you play those plays.
Russian knew what was going to happen.
Russian knew that the same Biden administration that pulled every troop out of Afghanistan,
even against international public opinion, the same Biden who fights his own people about
COVID policies for two years, they knew that that Biden wasn't going to do anything.
Just in my in my opinion, the next move that Russia makes will happen next year.
It's going to happen in a place like Moldova.
It's going to happen in a place like Tajikistan, some other some other weak corrupt states
that borders that borders close to a Russian controlled haven that has a population of
Russian sympathizers.
It's going to happen in a place like that in 2023.
And then in 2024, China is going to take Taiwan because everybody in the world, every strong
man in the world is watching the United States do nothing.
Trump did nothing in Hong Kong.
Nobody did anything with the Azerbaijan Armenian war in 2019.
Nobody like everybody just kind of shut their shut their doors and let businesses die and
let the country shut down for two years because of COVID.
He's doing anything in this war.
It's just this is how it works right now.
We are in a phase of global policy where we're isolationist without admitting that we're
isolationist.
We all just care about how do we keep ourselves, you know, clean and tidy?
How do we take care of ourselves here and let the world kind of take care of itself?
Isn't it all about money?
Because when you think about the billions of dollars being poured into their into the
weapons that we're giving to the Ukraine, you think of, OK, Lockheed Martin and Ray
Theon publicly saying that this conflict is good for their shareholders.
And so you think it like a military industrial complex.
And then secondly, you see, OK, we're placing all these sanctions on Russia, but there was
another report saying that we also spent close to a billion dollars in fuel and minerals.
We paid Russia almost a billion dollars for fuel and minerals right as we oppose these
same sanctions.
So it's like it's like we're kind of playing both sides and the Ukraine is caught in the
middle.
Yeah, it's it's not so much about playing both sides, but you're right.
It is about money and understanding how the money flows is one of the things that will
help you think of the problem, think of the conflict more through the eyes of a professional
intelligence officer, whatever the reports that you're reading, I don't know where they're
coming from.
Can you pull up the one with the one about the sanctions?
And I don't know where the sources are, right?
This is it.
OK.
These aren't being the West each day continues to buy hundreds of millions of dollars worth
of resources from Russia and directly financing Ukraine's crisis.
Right.
So do you know what that means?
So it's talking about the West.
I love this is a fantastic study.
And this is a fantastic study in headline.
And scroll down.
No, no, no.
Stay right here.
Stay right here.
OK.
Because this is a fantastic example of how media messes with our heads every day.
They're telling us nothing but getting us to click and read and get all sorts of emotional
about it.
Right.
They're calling it the West.
The West is the accurate term.
The United States.
Because do you know what the West includes all of Europe?
More than 40 percent of Europe's energy comes from Russia.
The reason NATO won't take action.
The reason the EU wants to stay out of this is because they don't have a choice.
They have to play ball with Russia.
Their liquid natural gas, their fuel, their crude oil, it's heavily coming from Russia.
If they piss off Russia, Russia stops the flow of energy.
And do you know what happens when poor countries don't get Russian energy?
People freeze to death.
People die.
Poor people die.
Rich people don't die, right?
Rich people always have a way of protecting their money.
But what ends up happening is when sanctions hit a country like Russia, the poor people
in Russia suffer, which then empowers them to believe that the Russian mission is a valiant
mission.
And then when the sanctions hurt so much that Russia actually jacks up oil prices like they're
already doing in the US.
They're already messing with oil prices here in the US, and people are driving around.
You know what Americans do get upset about?
Paying $4 at the pump for gas.
How expensive is a $35,000-a-year household?
How expensive are they going to let gas get before they say, come on, guys, who cares
about Ukraine?
That's what's going to happen.
Russia knows that's what's going to happen.
What this is saying is that the West continues to buy hundreds of millions of dollars in
resources from Russia.
That is an accurate statement because Europe is dependent on Russia.
They're dependent on Russia, indirectly financing the Ukrainian crisis.
Also correct.
So here is a statement that is factual, but it's actually intentionally slanted so that
when you read it, you think that they're talking about the United States.
So scroll down a little bit.
What is it saying in the opening paragraph of this?
In the 24 hours after Vladimir Putin signed the decree recognizing two breakaway Ukrainian
territories, the European Union, the U.K. and the U.S. bought a combined 3.5 million
barrels of Russian oil.
I hate you, media.
Do you see how the media is messing with you, man?
When you actually break that out, they are correct.
But when you break that out, the U.S. is like 2% of that, 5% of that.
Really?
Fact-check me, people, please.
Maybe you can find something on that, Austin.
Because this stuff pisses me off.
This is why, okay, it pisses me off, but it's why I have a job because I teach this stuff
to millionaires.
I was telling you earlier, I have a private group of millionaires coming in to work with
me this weekend on one of my private events, on one of my private courses, a course I
call StreetCraft.
StreetCraft takes espionage concepts and applies them to mastering and dominating in your everyday
life.
And if anybody cares about StreetCraft, you can find it on my home page, you can find
it on my Instagram, you can find it on YouTube, right?
The reason that this stuff is valuable is because when left to our own devices, public
school teaches us to read current events and trust current events.
We have decades of experience trusting current events that come from reputable news sources.
With the advent of social media, when information became free and you didn't have to pay 25
cents to go pick up a newspaper, these newspapers have lost their journalistic incentive to
produce real news.
Now, the journalistic incentive is just to get people to click and read because the more
views that that website gets, the more they get to charge for the ads on that website.
It's called CPM, right?
Cost per million.
Every thousand views is a certain number of dollars.
So that's what they're looking for.
They're looking for volume.
Media has become a volume game, not a quality game.
How does it make you feel when you see major news organizations like MSNBC and CNN paying
ex Pentagon officials and CIA people tons of money to be talking heads?
How does that make you feel?
First of all, just seeing these ex people that are now retired from the Pentagon or
from the CIA getting paid tons of money to be the news.
Yeah, it's frustrating.
They're not getting paid tons of money.
Actually, I bet you'd be surprised if you knew how much they get paid.
I've been offered the paycheck to come out and do that stuff.
Have you?
Yeah, it's not much.
You're talking about $8,000, $12,000.
That's a lot of money to some people.
Half of that gets taken away by taxes because you're an independent contractor.
It's really not a lot of money.
What kills me is that egos, these former American officials who have almost in every
case almost retired from service.
They have been so heavily indoctrinated in American government and American politics
that they've lost their ability to actually view in a situation without a bias.
They all view it from their own bias instead of seeing the two sides of the equation.
Like you were saying, think about this from Putin's perspective.
That is a fundamental intel skill.
There's no reason that an ex-CIA director shouldn't be able to do that, but they don't
do it.
You get up there and you see General Petraeus or you see former director Hayden or you see
they get up there and they parrot whatever the mainstream argument is of their political
party that they support.
They've lost that unbiased position and it's not their fault necessarily.
It's because they're getting paid to come onto a certain news source that's got an audience
that believes a certain way and then they have their own opinion.
They have their own political ambitions too.
It's frustrating.
It makes me feel sad.
It makes me feel irritated.
It's why I love coming to talk to you, Danny, because I don't have any political aspirations
and it's very nice to have a place where I can just come and be unbiased and tell people
to their face like, look, if you believe the news, you're the idiot, not me.
If you think that Russia invading Ukraine is a surprise, you should have been reading,
you could read that in Wikipedia five weeks ago and you wouldn't be surprised.
It's just people who aren't, people who are letting the media dictate to them what they
should be paying attention to right now, which is what the media wants to do because that's
how they make their money.
It's all about money.
That's just like you said.
Do you find it frustrating when things like WikiLeaks or Edward Snowden or anything like
Oliver Stone's latest documentary on JFK portray the general public's view of the CIA being
this evil, deep state organization?
What does that make you feel?
That makes me feel very frustrated for sure.
The CIA is a conglomerate.
It's a community, just like any other amalgamation of anything else.
You can't look at general electric and say that it's evil.
You can't look at Nike and say that it's evil.
You can't look at Amazon and say that it's evil.
Does it have some people who are unscrupulous?
For sure.
Does it have lots of people who are good, honest, hardworking people?
Absolutely.
CIA is the exact same way.
But what we have to remember is that CIA is a government organization with a mission
and a master.
CIA is part of the executive branch.
That means CIA belongs to the president.
That's their number one customer, their number one client.
That is the executive branch.
You are at the behest.
You serve at the pleasure of the president.
Whoever that president is, whether you voted for him or not, the mission, the duty is to
do what the president says to do.
You have an issue with the president says, sure, you can take that up through internal
channels.
Snowden didn't use those internal channels.
He just threw a fit and did his own thing.
That's against the law.
If you love Snowden, you're an idiot too.
The dude broke the law.
He did the right thing the wrong way.
It's the same thing as shooting a guy who's looking at your wife backwards.
There's a better way of handling it than that.
That's just the way it is.
If you want to think that CIA is some sort of giant, corrupt, well-oiled machine of propaganda
and lies, you're giving us way too much credit.
The CIA is like 90% government employees who did an averagely good job in college, an averagely
good job in life, getting paid an average wage of $65,000 a year.
All they want to do is get to work as late as possible and leave work as early as possible.
They're still government employees.
They're not the world's sharpest, most evil propagandizing and conspiratorial groups.
They're just everyday people just trying to make a decent wage and work towards a retirement.
What would you say the percentages of people that in the CIA are as you just described,
people that are trying to show up as late as possible and leave as early as possible
compared to the people, because I'm sure there's people in there too that are just
trying to gain more power and climb the ladder, right?
I would break and I love CIA.
I am not in any way trying to speak poorly about those people.
When I was at CIA, I would say that there were three groups.
There was the get to work late, leave early, minimum work, typical government employee
that we all joke about.
That's probably about 50% of CIA.
Just like it's 50% of DMV, 50% of your police force, 50% of anything else.
50% of school teachers out there want to get to school as late as possible and leave
as early as possible.
That doesn't mean that they're incompetent.
It just means that their priorities are family or raising kids or whatever else.
Their priority does not necessarily mean being the best that they can be at work.
I'd give about 50% of CIA to just your typical, stereotypical, almost laughable government
employee.
30% who are true blue American heroes and patriots.
People who work hard, people who stay late, people who honestly we sacrifice anything
and they do.
They sacrifice marriages, fall apart.
There's a humongously high divorce rate in CIA.
Families fall apart.
Children find out that their parents were lying to them about being undercover and the families
are broken.
There's tremendous sacrifices that are made by about 35% or 30% of employees at CIA.
Then you have this weird 15% to 20% that aren't necessarily out for world domination
kind of power, but they are very much out to like, CYA, cover their own backside and
get as high as possible and achieve as much as possible because they are your narcissistic,
backstabbing, untrustworthy, unscrupulous folks.
The folks who like director Pompeo, no, the woman, I just lost her name, Susan, Sharon,
who's the female director at CIA?
Can you find it?
Female director of the CIA?
Give me help.
I think she might, she was right before William Burns, but anyways, so here's, she was raised
from within CIA, right?
She was a CIA, I think she was a case officer at CIA for a long career.
She was one of the people who, when she got the order to burn records that might incriminate
people for torture at Guantanamo Bay, she burned records.
And then when she was called on and said, did you burn records, she was like, yep, that
was me.
So the boss told me to do it, right?
The only, there are people for sure.
Thank you, Gina Haspel.
Gina has very openly stated that she burned and destroyed incriminating evidence from
torture, from torture that was carried out in Guantanamo Bay.
Anybody in their right mind, if they knew they were doing something illegal, even if
it was at the behest of the president, and they were told to then cover up the evidence,
they would think twice.
She didn't think twice.
She was that kind of person who was like, well, I could either invest in my career and
just be part of like the in-group that covers this thing up and then I know they're gonna
take care of me.
They took care of her all the way to being director of CIA, right?
So there are always gonna be that group of people too, the people who mix ethics with
ambition.
And that's just the way it is.
That's how you end up having waterboarding and torture and all sorts of other corruptions
that happen at all levels of government.
Yeah, just sort of human nature.
It's human nature.
It's an overactive sense of survivalism, right?
It's not enough to just survive without inflicting damage.
It's about surviving and leaving a trail of dead bodies behind you.
What is the, obviously, I can tell what you think about Edward Snowden, what is the idea
of Julian Assange being painted as this incredible supervillain for being able to release this
information and while he at the same time keeps the sources anonymous and keeps the names
anonymous?
Yeah, that's sad.
But the Assange thing is sad because that dude is, what he has done with WikiLeaks is
if it was actually neutral, so the problem here is that if he were to actually be equitable
in the stuff that he leaks, if he were to leak as much stuff about Russia as he leaks
about the United States and as much stuff about Brazil as he leaks about Lithuania,
if he leaked everything equally, then there wouldn't be, it would be very hard for people
to say that he was a puppet of some evil power.
But instead, he leaks the stuff that everybody's the most interested in, American Secrets.
Well when you leak American Secrets, you become a threat to the United States.
If you become a threat to the United States, then you can expect the United States to rally
because remember we were just talking about how the US is the big kid on the block, they're
the global superpower.
Everybody wants to invest in the United States, everybody wants to be friends with the United
States.
So when the US says, okay, Assange is now anti-America and we need your help everybody,
taking him down.
It's really hard for someone to be like, oh well, I disagree with you there, but I want
to keep investing in you because America starts to say, well, if you're not going to be on,
if you're not going to help us with this, we're not going to help you with anything you need
help with.
So that's how you end up, that's how we get into the WikiLeaks situation where he became
inordinately focused on leaking information from one target.
And that makes it so that our adversaries could start funding WikiLeaks, supporting WikiLeaks,
running cases and leaking information to WikiLeaks from their espionage cases.
And that's not at the heart of what he was trying to do.
To keep his business alive, to deliver the maximum beneficial product to the people who
loved WikiLeaks, he let himself get led astray by the larger game of espionage.
Right.
But to be held up, how long has he been held up in that embassy for 10 years?
They want to extradite him.
He's stuck, man.
And then you see the reports, the report on Yahoo News, it was that the CIA plotted to
kidnap or kill him.
So again, this is, let's check the news source.
Let's check the news source.
Kidnapping or assassination in London.
Shoot out.
The CIA secret war plans against WikiLeaks.
And they changed the narrative.
Like Pompeo, when he talked about WikiLeaks, he completely changed the definition of who
they were and through his words, tried to change the public narrative about what they
were doing and no longer classified him as a journalist.
So look, there's a lot going on here, right?
So first, Yahoo News, that's not, I wouldn't call that a reputable news source.
That's an information aggregation source, right?
And then if you look at the headline, you can see how emotional that headline is.
The CIA's secret war plans against WikiLeaks.
I don't, like, it just, it doesn't make any sense.
It's a little sensation.
So this headline is doing something that we call an influence and covert influence.
What this is doing is it's weeding out the wrong audience and it's aligning itself to
a conspiratorial audience.
It's a tactic that you use in influence campaigns because what you want is you want to say stuff
that's so sensational that your target audience just consumes it and loves it and trusts
it right away.
But you also want to use language that's so sensational that your non-target audience
just dismisses it immediately and doesn't even read.
Because, like, for me, I'm sure I saw this headline at some point and I just dismissed
it.
Quickly, I didn't even dedicate my short-term memory to remembering it.
It's so nonsensical to me.
But to the target audience, they love this and they read more of this and Yahoo News
gets more clicks and that's, if you want to count how many ads are on that page, you'll
get a chance to see why they do what they do.
But what I'm getting at is Assange is stuck.
He had a choice maybe 10 years ago to decide how much he was going to let himself get controlled
by the larger geopolitical narrative, Russia versus China versus US versus Europe.
He had a chance to decide, am I going to let myself be swayed by dollars and cents when
other people, when Russia specifically starts giving me information from their spies inside
the United States and then letting me leak it at specific times that are to the detriment
of the United States.
Once he made that choice, it was all downhill.
But did he not?
Is it true?
How do we know that he didn't leak sensitive stuff about China or about Russia?
Maybe we're just not paying attention to it.
We're only paying attention to the stuff that he leaked about the US claiming because we
want to bring him here because it embarrassed the US and embarrassed the CIA.
Well, not just embarrassment.
There is strong analytical, strong empirical evidence that shows that the timing at which
he was releasing facts that were given to him by Russian counterparts.
It was given to him?
The stuff that he was given?
I thought it was proven that it wasn't.
Not all of it, but a lot of it, was actually provided to him by assets, by informants to
the Russian Federation and then dropped specifically at times during the election in 2012, 2016.
I thought he, didn't he release the Hillary emails in 2016?
Yep.
So, and then those weren't dropped as soon as you got them.
Those were dropped at a specific time to cause chaos in the middle of an election cycle.
Right.
But I think it was already proven that that stuff was already public record.
It was already posted on various news sites.
So that, yeah, if that's, I can't speak to that one way or the other.
I'm pretty sure they disproved that that wasn't Russian, that wasn't Russian intelligence.
So then you had, you had Hillary emails, I mean, there was WikiLeaks has dropped a lot
of different information.
I know I have, I have, I have tried to cite WikiLeaks sources in even my own publications
and had CIA come back and tell me that it can't be published because it is still classified
inside.
So he just, your original question was, is it fair?
Yes.
It's fair.
He, whenever you-
Fair to picture him as a, as some sort of supervillain, like he's-
To the United States.
To the United States.
Right.
Right.
If, if somebody else out there wants to, wants to grant him exile, they can, but nobody's
doing it.
Right.
If somebody else wants to be like, hey, we back you up Assange, come stay with us.
Come live in, come live in whatever Borneo, come live in South Africa, come live in Switzerland.
They can, they can totally back him up.
They can grant him exile.
They can, they can grant him refugee status, but guess what, nobody's doing that.
Because they know what he did against the United States was, was not, it was not unmotivated
by political implications.
He was intentionally trying to be a threat to the United States.
He was giving enemies of the United States an advantage that is against the best interests
of the United States.
So he's, it's, look at Snowden.
If you look at the grand book tour of Edward Snowden, where has he been?
He's been to Hong Kong.
He's been to Cuba.
He's been to Ecuador.
He's in Russia.
Well, it's because he can't come to the US, right?
He can't go to any place that has a positive relationship with the US.
Right.
Because of the threat.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Right.
Not that the US is going to kill him when he, when he lands in Germany.
That's not going to happen, but the Germans are going to be like, we care more about our
relationship with the US than we care about you Snowden.
Do you know what I mean?
That's, that is the world that we live in.
What is international geopolitical collaboration?
That's why you do it.
It's why you have extradition agreements.
It's why you have international law.
That is how people and civilizations work.
Right.
But I guess there's a different, I mean, is, what is the difference between, or could there
be a fundamental moral difference between the way someone like Julian Assange may look
at the world and the way China or the US looks at the world, like maybe Julian, you know,
the biggest, the closest thing I can compare it to is, is social media.
Right.
So you have somebody who has this, you know, grandiose social media presence they put on
an act or on, or on the news rather or someone on the news who talks about certain things,
pushes some sort of narrative.
And then behind, when the camera's not rolling, there's somebody completely different.
And someone tries to expose this person for being somebody different than who they portray
themselves to be.
They're doing things that they're not actively doing in the limelight, right?
There's, they're two different people.
They're wearing two different hats, two different masks.
That's what he was trying to do to the United States to make, to make the world a better
place for lack of a better term, right?
To not say that these are three evil empires all against each other.
He's trying to remove the lie or trying to expose just lies.
Like shouldn't the United States be doing that?
Shouldn't the United States be doing what it, doing exactly what it says it's doing
in the public light behind closed doors?
No, no.
Are you a parent?
Yes.
Do you do exactly what you tell your child you're going to do?
No.
Because you're protecting your child.
The U.S. government has been put in a position where, where the people have said, I raise
my hand and I vote for you to keep me safe.
There's a, there's a pyramid, a fantastic, if you, if you don't know the pyramid, there's
this pyramid that talks about the creation of a state.
There's three levels in the pyramid.
At the foundational level of the pyramid is tribalism or it's individualism where everybody's
out for themselves.
This is what we were like before when we were like cavemen.
I ate what I hunted.
If I was hungry, it's because I didn't hunt enough, right?
I, I ate and I drank when I could find food.
That's the base level.
Everybody's out for themselves.
We evolve, societies have the opportunity to evolve into tribalism.
Now let's become a tribe, a tribe of seven people, 12 people, eight people.
You're a good hunter.
I'm a good gatherer.
So you go hunt, I'll go gather and then we'll come and combine our resources at the end.
But I have no say how you treat your wife.
You have no say how big I grow my garden.
We just share resources.
Second level of the pyramid, right?
We're trading.
I'm trading my individual freedoms a little bit so that I can be part of a collective
because now I can't just take your, your property.
And individualism, I can walk into your camp, club you over the head and drag your wife
home.
Right.
Now we're saying we're a tribe.
So we're going to protect each other, but we're going to blow up every other tribe.
We're going to steal their resources, make them our resources.
Tribalism is the second level of that pyramid.
The third evolution of that pyramid is called the creation of the state.
Now what you're doing is you're letting a state organization, a centralized organization
of, of some sort of elected or some sort of chosen official.
Maybe it's an elder, maybe it's a politician, whatever, but you're choosing to let this
small organization capture the efficiencies of everybody.
You're not just your resources, which like you see with the tax base, they tax everybody.
That's a collection of resources.
And then in exchange for taxation, they're giving everybody security.
Now there's police forces, there's military forces.
They're giving everybody social welfare.
Now you have, you know, if, if somebody gets sick and they're too old for you to take care
of, we'll take care of them.
If you're homeless or you lose your job, we'll take care of you.
There's environmental and, and like services that infrastructure that's put on top of that
will take care of getting you clean running water.
We'll take care of giving you electricity so you don't have to worry about those things.
At the individual level, you have to worry about your own clean water and where your
own power source is.
At the state level, the third level of pyramid, somebody else is doing all that for you.
How are you paying for that?
You're not just paying for that in taxes.
You're paying for that by giving up your individual rights, your individual freedoms.
That's the, that's the power of the pyramid.
The higher up you go in the pyramid, the more civilized you get to live.
But the cost is that you lose your individual freedoms.
That's how it works in any pyramid, in any culture, anywhere.
The only truly free people out there are your aboriginals in like Australia who live in
groups of two or three and they spear their own wild hogs and do whatever the hell they
want to do.
But they're never going to have running water and electricity until they organize themselves
into some kind of a state.
So when you, when you look at it through that way, when you look at it through that lens,
you understand that everybody's, everybody has to make a choice.
And if you, if you choose to live within a state, within the confines of a state organization,
you're giving up your freedoms.
You're voluntarily giving those things up in exchange for all the conveniences that
you get.
Right?
Netflix, running water to a paycheck every two weeks.
You can give all that up if you want to and move down the pyramid if you choose.
I see that.
But how does that apply to exposing like the leaders of the state, exposing in like rot
in that organization or in those higher up levels?
Like when you see people, you know, when you see bombs killing civilians, because lies,
lies and secrets are not the same thing.
What WikiLeaks promised to expose was secrets, not lies.
Sometimes what they exposed were lies, but those lies were intended to protect the people
that the state had sworn to protect.
The state had determined that these things were secrets.
The people had said, I choose you to keep me safe.
So you state get to choose what secrets I get to know and what secrets I don't get to
know.
And that's, I am, I am an American citizen.
I am a military veteran and I used to work for CIA.
I don't want to know all the truth.
I don't.
I want to know only what pertains to me and I want to let CIA work within the confines
of their secrecy so that they can prevent things that I don't even know happen.
Right?
If you actually got a text message alert on your phone every time there was a potential
terrorist attack, you would live in terror all the time.
Every time our Intel report comes in that says, Hey, terrorists are plotting an attack
in Tampa.
Terrorists are plotting an attack in Seminole.
Terrorists are planning an attack here.
Terrorists are going to bomb the next football game.
You would be amazed at how much intelligence comes in talking about possible threats, imminent
threats that are unvalidated, unfounded, that are, you know, that are aspirational at best
because it's just not something they can actually execute on.
You don't want to know that stuff.
Those are secrets that need to be kept secret because they don't, they don't help us.
They don't keep us safe.
They make us less safe.
So you think it would have been best if we never found out that the government was secretly
spying on every U.S. citizen with the Patriot Act from 9-11?
So the Patriot Act is a great example.
The open court system, right?
The public court system in the judicial branch found that to be illegal.
The secret court system within the intelligence community had also made a ruling on that and
found it to be legal.
Be legal?
Yeah.
That's how it passed the first time.
Nothing gets passed in the intel world without going through a secret court first.
Every branch gets a chance to comment on this stuff, right?
What happened is...
But why keep it secret?
You think it was best to keep that secret?
Do you know why the Patriot Act existed?
Because to find terrorists in the United States, which they never actually, there's not one
report of ever finding any sort of terrorist through the Patriot Act.
There's not one public report of ever finding a terrorist through the Patriot Act.
So you think they have found lots of terrorists, but they're just not telling us about it?
Do you remember the Central Times bombing that didn't happen?
Because they found the bomb?
No.
You remember that?
No, I don't remember.
In Times Square?
Oh, oh, yes.
That's a perfect example.
If you were to do research on how many terrorist attacks didn't happen, instead of leaning
on the media to tell you terrorist attacks that do happen, you would start to get a better
picture of how effective CIA really is, right?
What happens is, when CIA has something that's secret that they work on, that secret has
immense strategic value.
Not only can they prevent something bad from happening, but they can actually hunt down
the person who's creating the bad thing.
So why would they make that public?
In 2000, I want to say it was 2007 or 2008 maybe, the Washington Post released an article
saying that they were tracking Osama bin Laden by his satellite phone.
We were tracking Osama bin Laden.
The dude could have been killed by 2009, but instead the Washington Post decided to leak
a story that we were tracking him through a satellite phone.
So guess what he did the next day?
He got rid of that satellite phone.
Is that in America's best interest?
That's a secret, right?
Yeah.
Were the American people being lied to?
Maybe.
Did they have any right to know that?
Maybe.
Did Osama bin Laden have a right to know that?
No.
When you make something public to the American people, you make it public to the aggressors.
You make it public to the enemy.
You can't do that.
Not a state that's swearing to keep you safe.
They're not going to make something public that might get in the hands of the enemy.
I know that people don't like hearing that, and I'm telling you right now, you can hate
hearing it all you want.
Go to another fucking country.
Go somewhere else.
If you don't like being here, you're not welcome here.
Go find something else, right?
America is going to keep its citizens safe by prioritizing American security above all
other things.
Even if that means they're going to lie to your face, that's the country I want to
live in, man.
Keep my family safe.
Let me worry about getting to work.
Don't make me worry about every possible terrorist attack.
It's interesting, the way you describe the pyramid, that's the first time I've ever heard
it described like that.
That's very interesting, and it immediately made me think of China.
If you look at, like, I think we've talked about this before, but if you look at all
the countries as if they're in a race to be the most dominant country in the world, or
the strongest, most powerful country in the world, you don't really think of the U.S.
you would think of China, right?
Even though they are, you know, it's authoritarian, there's very fewer freedoms in China.
There's so much, everything's censorship and propaganda.
But if you look at it from the perspective of who is winning, China is winning.
Would that be fair to say?
Well, I don't know how you decide the criteria for winning.
Right, I guess you're right.
You have to figure out what the...
So America is still the largest economy in the world, so we're still winning there.
America still has the dominant...
What is the largest economy in the world?
The largest economy in the world.
America generates more money than China generates.
China is number two.
They beat out Japan recently, right?
We still have the largest, most well-equipped military.
There are more ground troops in China, right?
There are more army soldiers.
More people, right?
More people, right?
More soldiers.
But we still have the predominant military force in the world, the largest fleet in the
Navy, like the largest, most, what's the word I'm looking for, deployable military anywhere
in the world.
So if you want to say that China's winning because their progress has been faster for
the last 50 years, I think that's fair.
But to say that they're winning overall is actually not fair.
Really?
Yeah, they're not anywhere close to being able to overcome or outmatch the United States
military or the U.S. economy.
If you have numbers that show me otherwise, I'm super eager to see them.
But the last time I checked, the U.S. still had the largest economy in the world in terms
of GDP.
But aren't we a completely reliant on China for everything manufacturing?
No.
Pretty much everything manufacturing is reliant on China.
So that statement alone, right?
Pretty much everything.
All of our electronics, all of our phones.
So in those categories, you are correct.
But our vehicles don't have to have smart chips.
We have tons of stuff that we import from Vietnam, Brazil.
We have things that we like maple syrup only comes from Canada.
We're not reliant on anything in China for maple syrup.
We have tons of in-house agriculture, right?
What China provides us, what China has provided the entire world is cheap labor for refinement
and manufacturing because China doesn't care if their water is poisoned and China doesn't
care if the people get abused.
So in a globalized world, the mistake that we all made prior to COVID, everybody in
the world, is that we were happy to let China do all the hard work, right?
Australia was sending their rare earth minerals to China for refinement.
We were letting China be the place where we assembled all of our iPhones.
What happened with COVID?
When COVID struck China in what was that like late winter, early spring of 2020, when it
first hit, manufacturing, the supply chain all over the world froze.
And now we're feeling supply chain, yep.
So what started to happen the day after supply chains froze?
Everybody started diversifying away from China, right?
China made a mistake.
They quietly let everybody put their supply chain go through China, which is a strategic,
super strong strategic move.
But they never anticipated that something could happen that would highlight that they
had been doing that strategy.
COVID highlighted that China had made themselves the epicenter of all supply chain, almost
of the vast majority of supply chains in the world.
Since then, massive investment in diversifying minerals, resources, manufacturing, supply
chain variations outside of China.
Nobody ever wants another COVID to happen again.
They want to make sure they have supply chains that don't touch, that don't touch not only
just China, but that aren't reliant on a single bottleneck.
So China got busted hard with COVID.
And I would not say, I would never in a million years say that the majority of our manufacturing
comes out of China because it's just not true.
Lots of cheap trinkets and lots of heavy manual labor are done in China.
Lots of very toxic refinement is done in China because that's China's competitive advantage.
Outside of that, they have no advantage.
Most of your chocolate does not come from China, right?
As an example, most of your gas does not get touched by China.
Most of your metals, there's a long laundry list of things that you use every day that
China doesn't touch.
But if you want to talk about the plastic crap in your living room, yeah, China touches
a lot of that.
What did you have the majority of the things in our homes and our offices in this room
right now that come from China, like these microphones, the TVs, our phones, wouldn't
that be extremely, extremely detrimental if the supply chain from China was cut off indefinitely?
That would be catastrophic.
That's exactly what happened in February of 2020.
It was catastrophic.
It will never happen again.
Do you think we will bring back some of that manufacturing to the US?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
For sure.
That's what the Trump administration was trying to do before COVID anyways, was trying to
bring back more manufacturing to the US.
The problem is the kind of manufacturing that returns to the US is going to be skilled manufacturing,
not unskilled manufacturing.
It's going to be expert heavy instead of labor heavy.
Does that make sense?
That's just the way we work.
If you think of even just computer programming as a form of skilled labor, a lot of that
manufacturing, quote unquote, manufacturing happens right here in the United States.
There's tons of very skilled laborers building things every day, all throughout the east
and west coast, all throughout the center states, the flyover states.
The main place where China shines in terms of supply chain and in manufacturing is cheap
entry level goods.
I promise you, if you were to look at the most expensive equipment you have in the studio,
it didn't come from China.
The nicest equipment you have in here probably came from places in Europe.
I think these actually came from Sweden.
There you go.
If it's cheap shit, it's coming from China.
Entry level stuff, that's going to come from China.
Mass produced, low quality, low survivability rate.
All your high quality goods are still created by skilled manufacturers, not raw labor.
I mean, there's so many other ties that we have to China, like the NBA, like for example,
when the NBA executive comes out and talks about China and Hong Kong, then China cuts
off billions of dollars of funding to the NBA.
There's so many key ties between China and the US that would destroy corporations in
the US that are relying on China, such as Apple or the NBA, and I'm sure there's a
laundry list of other ones like that.
If a corporation has allowed itself to become so controlled by one element of the supply
they're not a very mature corporation.
So that's one thing to think about.
If China does shut down the supply and Apple suffers and iPhones around the world stop
being produced and they can't survive longer than six months or so, you already know I
don't like Apple.
You already know I don't like iPhones.
By the way, why don't you like iPhones?
Because Apple's company is not a good company.
Look at what we're talking about right now.
They're dependent on a supply line coming from China.
They don't cooperate to keep Americans safe.
They're an American company that does not cooperate with the FBI, does not cooperate
with organizations that are there to keep Americans safe.
We saw that with the terrorists that were using iPhones in whatever year that was, 2012
maybe, when terrorist cells were using iPhones and then when the FBI got their hands on
those cell phones, Apple wouldn't help them unlock the cell phones because Apple said
we promise our users that they have total security.
Individual privacy, right?
Individual privacy.
Isn't that important?
Is individual privacy important or is American citizen privacy important?
Which one do you really want?
You want privacy laws that pertain to American citizens.
If the American citizen in question is a terrorist ISIS member who has taken their Americans,
has given up their American citizenship to become a member of ISIS, does that person
deserve the same rights, the same privilege to privacy as you and I, or do their decisions
dictate their rights to privacy?
These are all the sticky, uncomfortable questions that you'll never hear about in a headline
that smart people have around tables all the time, but ignorant people don't because they
sit around talking about, oh, we all have a right to privacy, yada, yada.
Nobody gives a rat's ass if you're cheating on your wife with your secretary.
Nobody cares except for you, your secretary, and your wife.
FBI is not going to waste their time on that, CIA is not going to waste their time on that.
But if there's some dude hiding out in Michigan who's an American citizen who has pledged
his loyalty to ISIS through an online portal, and now that person's plotting an attack in
St. Louis, that person has given up their right to privacy.
That's the country I want to live in.
As soon as we stop looking at that person through the lens of a threat to American citizens,
then that's the day that I leave the United States.
But doesn't China have some sort of extreme power over the U.S. by controlling companies
like Apple or Samsung or the NBA?
Like, if there's all these major corporations in the U.S. that are so tied into government
and so tied in, that are so, our economy is so dependent on, and China has tons of influence
over those companies, wouldn't that be an indirect way of influence and power over us
through China?
It's a useless way of influence.
Yeah, because what's China going to do?
This is, so, let's say that China has total control over Apple.
Well, they could have all, they could potentially have access to all of their information.
They have potential to all the information if you use Apple.
Right.
That's it.
That's all they have.
What kind of...
Or social media apps like TikTok.
What kind of chess pieces that?
Oh, great.
You can now look in the pocket of every ignorant 22-year-old around the country.
What's the point?
What's the value?
There's no strategic value there, man.
Like China's grasping, China's grasping at a world that is distractible, and they want
to suck up every bit of information they can, right?
That's a strategy that they're pursuing.
Have you ever heard of the pricing strategy in business?
There's two pricing strategies in business.
You can either price yourself so that you are the lowest priced competitor, or you
can price yourself so you're the highest priced competitor.
Pricing in the middle is not an advantage.
The person with the cheapest price is going to get the most customers.
The person with the highest price is going to have customers that pay the most, and they
might get the most top-line revenue.
If you're the idiot that prices the same product somewhere in the middle, then you've
lost both advantages.
You either have millions of readers or readers with millions.
Exactly.
I think there's a magazine that uses that quote.
Yeah, it's a great quote.
China is essentially in the bargain basement part of the world.
America is in the highest value proposition of the world.
We want to create the most impactful, most powerful stuff.
We want to empower Silicon Valley and Boeing and Raytheon to create stuff that the world
has never seen before.
We don't really care about plastic trinkets.
We don't really care about TikTok.
Right, but when it comes down, when you're asking what's the value of having control
over information and having access to information such as stuff from TikTok, having the mind
control of every 20-year-old in our country, well, there's the psychological aspect of
it, right?
There's the war of ideas.
There's weaponizing of ideas and thoughts and psychology.
There is.
That's a huge thing.
Yeah, it's a huge...
That's like you think when you think of wars or whatever and you think of dropping bombs
or bullets, the psychological aspect of it or the ideas, right?
Absolutely.
But you've got to think about influence is not equal for all people.
We've had this conversation before too where we talk about equal and fair, right?
If every broke-ass 20-year-old in the United States who's recording themselves on TikTok
picking their nose or pouring beer on their girlfriend's head, if every one of them is
suddenly fully mind-controlled by China, what advantage is that for China?
They're going to get what?
A bunch of poor, broke-ass 20-year-olds to go out there and protest.
The decisions in America are made by the top 2% of people.
You know what that top 2% of people do not use?
TikTok.
Think about it, man.
I intentionally don't advertise on a platform like TikTok because my multimillion-dollar
clients are not there.
They might not be able to change decisions made by the top 2%, but they could seed chaos.
Who cares?
Of course.
Chaos is in the...
Isn't that what Russia and China want to see in the US?
Is chaos?
Yeah, but they want to see it.
They want to see chaos at a real level.
They want to see chaos happen in groups that already exist.
So there's an Intel principle called the piggyback principle.
I don't know if I've ever talked about this.
So the piggyback principle is that when you're creating an influence campaign against another
country, you never try to create something new.
You don't go in and try to create a new organization that doesn't like Catholic nuns.
It doesn't make any sense.
It's expensive.
It's slow.
It may not work.
You never create a new issue.
You find an existing point of conflict, and then you pour resources into the existing
point of conflict.
That's what you do.
So you find Americans that hate Muslims, and then you fund the group that says America
against Muslims, and then you also fund the group that says Muslim rights in America.
So you start to pour resources into both extremes.
Those are called PSY-OPS when they do that, when there'll be a protest on a corner of
a street, and then all of a sudden there'll be a conflict group on the other side of the
street in certain parts of the world, when they organize on social media.
So PSY-OPS is a military term for psychological operations that is more, it's more complicated
than just that.
But essentially what you're talking about is the kind of pointy end of the spear.
When an influence or a deception campaign is successful in funding both ends of a group,
they can do things like, hey, let's send the people who want to protest the abuse of
animals at SeaWorld.
Let's send them on a protest on the same day as the people who think that SeaWorld should
be free to all future generations of children.
Let's get them to protest on the same day in the same place.
That is an influence campaign.
If the military were to do it, the PSY-OPS, the psychological operation, would come before
the influence campaign, because the psychological operation would be there to kind of pave the
way for the arguments.
Let's give people more information, let's give people more context, a lot of what you
see here.
This kind of headline is closer to a psychological operation than it is to an influence campaign,
because an influence campaign is there to create an outcome.
A psychological operation is there to create a new way of thinking, or to cement or underscore
an existing way of thinking.
One is action-based, one is cognitive-based.
Are you familiar with China's, I think it's the 2049 plan to become the dominant global
superpower?
Correct, yep.
2049.
Can you expand on that?
Explain what it is.
Yeah, so Xi Jinping is a very methodical, strong cult of personality, right?
And he has done an excellent job, I think, of bringing the Chinese Communist Party into
line with a singular vision.
And he laid out his 2049 plan of how China was going to become the new global superpower,
because they'd be replacing the United States.
Why would they replace the United States in 2049?
Because they haven't replaced us yet.
You see what I'm saying?
So he laid out this plan.
And that plan included all sorts of things.
The most important thing, I think, to keep aware of is that included the taking Taiwan
and making it China again, right?
All of this drama about Ukraine, what this is, is a giant, it's a giant dress rehearsal
for what China's going to do in Taiwan.
That's why China, you know who's backing Russia in the UN?
Who?
China.
Are they really?
Yep.
Do you know the whole UN, all the permanent members in the UN wanted to keep this topic,
the Russia-Ukraine crisis, wanted to keep it a public conversation so that they could
use public pressure and they could use the UN as a way of maintaining peace in Ukraine.
Russia wanted it to be a closed-door conversation only for diplomats, only for people immediately
involved.
They would have the only person, the only country in all of the UN that supported Russia's
decision, Russia's movement, to make it a private conversation instead of a public conversation
was China.
Do you know who just came out today making a statement that it's the US's fault that
Russia invaded Ukraine?
China.
Do you know why the sanctions against Russia aren't going to work?
Because China will always be there to move money in and out of Russia.
This is the way the world works.
It doesn't mean China's a bad guy.
It doesn't mean Russia's a bad guy.
It doesn't mean America's a bad guy.
It means that for every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction.
Sanctions are going to fail.
Do you know what Russia had on them before they invaded Ukraine?
American sanctions.
They've been sanctioned since 2014.
They've been sanctioned since 2008.
Sanctions just don't work because the elite of any country, what are you, do you ever
worry about rich people finding a way around taxes?
Like will rich people ever pay the full amount of taxes?
Am I ever worried about it?
No, I mean, they'll always find a way around.
So what's going to happen when a rich person in a foreign country gets sanctioned?
Right, they'll find a way around it.
But who won't find a way around it?
All the poor people who suffer.
And then as they suffer, they'll just further believe that the person levering the sanctions
is the aggressor.
So my point in all of this is that Russia and China are in this together.
Is that not in our best interest to push them closer together?
No, it is not in our best interest to push them closer together.
That's what I thought.
So the terminology that we have in the Intel world is called GPC, global power competition.
There's three players competing for global power competition, us, China and Russia.
That's it.
Nobody else has GPC ambitions.
We have been the global power leader since World War Two.
Russia was keeping up until their Soviet Union fell apart in 91.
And then China really massively increased in the last like 12 to 15 years.
China's 2049 plan is them saying, we have ambitions to be the number one.
That's a big statement.
And that big statement is a powerful public display, not just of Xi Jinping's ambitions,
but of his openness to put the whole world on red alert and say, hey, everybody, we're
going to do this thing.
If there's a close relationship between Russia and China, and China does what they did to
Hong Kong in 2019, do you remember that when they went into Hong Kong?
They violently broke up protests.
They consumed, they forced Hong Kong to become part of red China.
Do you remember that?
And then COVID broke out and nobody talks about Hong Kong anymore, right?
Russia watched that happen.
When Russia took Georgia in 2008, China watched that happen.
China was backing them then too.
China was a neutral party in 2008.
Instead of saying, we support Russia or we condemn Russia, they specifically said, we
don't have an opinion in 2008, even though the whole UN was saying this is wrong.
And then in 2014, they watched as Russia took Crimea, using a different but similar tactic
to what they did in Georgia, and China kept their mouth shut again.
In 2019, so 2014 was Crimea, in 2019, China took Hong Kong.
Russia supported them, didn't say anything one way or the other.
And now we're seeing Russia take Ukraine.
I feel like what this is showing us is a dance, it's a series of practice steps leading up
to not just Soviet expansion, which everybody wants to talk about right now, but it's also
giving China the green light to say, hey, China, guess what's going to happen if you
take Taiwan?
Nothing.
You think Biden's going to play a role?
Nope.
You think NATO's going to go to war for Taiwan?
Nope.
If you look at the headlines right now on Chinese social media and Chinese newspapers, the headlines
right now are all talking about how the US is doing nothing.
The West is abandoning Ukraine.
That's what they're saying.
Is that something that you look at when you see headlines in the US?
Do you automatically go to other countries' media and see what their narrative is?
One of the things I teach all of my multi-million dollar clients, I have a product called NewsHacker,
a digital training service called NewsHacker, where I teach people to do this.
I teach people how to find truth by looking at multiple sources.
It's why when you showed me Yahoo News, I was like, not a credible source.
If you want to find real news, you have to look at the news in the Middle East, the news
in Europe, the news in China, the news in Latin America, the news in the United States,
the news in Canada, the news in the UK, cross-reference them all and see where they're saying the
same thing.
It's so fucking hard to do all that.
It's hard to do it.
You know what I mean?
But if you want to call yourself and inform the geopolitical person, that's what you do.
If you don't want to call yourself and inform geopolitical person, you turn on CNN and you
repeat what they said.
Or watch some YouTube videos.
Watch some YouTube videos, for real.
Be like, I heard Andy say this one thing once.
So what I'm calling right now, what I'm predicting right now and I'm going to be right and it's
going to be awesome.
It's going to be terrible for Taiwan.
It's going to be awesome for my business.
In 2024, in the lead up to the elections in 2024, China is going to attack Taiwan.
They're going to take Taiwan.
In the final hours, the final weeks and days that President Biden is still president before
he has to be re-elected, before the Americans go to the poll, China's going to take a potshot
at Taiwan because it's part of the 2049 policy.
It's part of their commitment to their own people and they want Biden to struggle through
it.
They want Biden to be seen as weak in the year that he's going to be potentially re-elected.
They want that.
Because the American people are going to be just as off-center as they are right now about
Ukraine and Russia.
Ukraine and Russia don't matter to the American people.
There's no economic benefit to Americans in that conflict.
There's actual economic benefit to Americans in the conflict between Russia and Taiwan,
or I'm sorry, between China and Taiwan.
That will actually affect us.
Because Taiwan is an American ally in Southeast Asia that actually does, is a supply chain,
critical supply chain point in the electronics and technology industries.
That's why Taiwan matters.
Plus, Taiwan has been a long-time ally to the United States.
But wouldn't it be the same thing because we have the same kind of relationship with
China?
Would it affect us that much?
What's America going to do when China takes Taiwan?
Exactly.
That's what I'm saying.
What is our incentive to really help Taiwan when we have the same relationship with China
already?
It's going to be the same thing.
It's going to be exactly what you've seen Biden doing for the last five weeks.
We're going to put sanctions on China.
Don't do it, China.
Devastating sanctions.
We're going to take out your financial system.
We're going to shut down your inner circle.
We're going to make your elite pay.
Where's China going to get relief from all those sanctions?
Speaking of weirdness with China's control or stranglehold on some of these industries
that we have in the US, did you see the video of what was the ... John Cena apologizing to
China for saying Taiwan was a country?
I didn't see it.
He made a movie recently.
I think it was last year.
He came out with a movie.
He was doing press.
He was traveling doing press on the movie.
There was a random interview he was in where one little bit of that 30-minute interview
he did, he referenced Taiwan as a country.
Then there was some backlash from China.
He came out with this video on all of his social media platform apologizing in Mandarin.
He's speaking fluent fucking Mandarin.
Holy shit.
He's apologizing to China.
Then they found out later they dissected the revenue from that movie.
This is wild, bro.
Look at that.
They dissected the revenue from that movie.
If you could find out how much ... I forget the name of the movie even, but I think it
was the movie made $500 million and 450 of it was from China.
I don't see that.
Does China have a stranglehold on industry?
It has a stranglehold on one John Cena movie.
Culture.
Culture.
Is some sort of influence.
That is influence.
That is worthless influence.
That is not influence that you can use on any kind of geopolitical stage.
It's the John Cena movie that even you don't remember the title of.
I never watched it.
What kind of influence is that?
Does that influence his pocketbook?
I could influence a lot of little kids.
China, if you're watching, Taiwan is a country.
Taiwan, if you're watching, China is a big bully.
How dare you?
Whatever.
We don't need to dance around this stuff.
These are the realities that we all need to accept.
China is going to take Taiwan.
They're going to try.
Right now, what they are seeing in Ukraine is that America is not going to do anything.
The reason that China loves to see headlines on social media and in the press talking about
how America is abandoning Ukraine is because it knows it's planting the seeds two years
in advance.
This is an influence campaign against Taiwan.
What are Taiwanese people thinking right now?
China, if the US isn't going to back Ukraine, what are they going to do for us?
You know what I mean?
The US abandoned Afghanistan, the US abandoned the Ukrainians, the US abandoned Hong Kong.
We know China is gunning for us because they tell us all the time the headlines in Taiwan
tell us that one day Taiwan is going to become part of China.
They're getting a very clear message in American US foreign policy and they've been getting
it for two years.
They'll get it for another two years as Biden continues to take an isolationist approach
without calling it isolationist because he doesn't want to put the US in any kind of
conflict like that.
Is that the right thing or the wrong thing?
What do you think?
That's his decision.
He's the president.
The president is a role I will never criticize a president because it's a terrible position
to be in.
When we were here talking about Trump, Trump was the president.
That is a burden.
They have the right to make whatever decision they're going to make.
I came from the executive branch.
I did whatever the president said because that job sucks.
What I'm here to tell you is what the future holds because I think that there's value in
knowing what the future brings.
What's happening right now, this would have been valuable to know two weeks ago, but instead
of having any kind of helpful insight, all we had was media reverberating, restating
something that Biden said, any day now.
Any day now.
It's worthless.
If somebody would have said, hey, February 23rd, February 24th, somewhere in there, there's
going to be an invasion.
It's going to be bombs.
Everybody would have loved to hear of that.
That would have been useful information.
Instead, it was just, we believe Russia will invade in the coming days or weeks.
That could mean anything.
With China backing Russia right now, what does that mean for us in the near future?
Like you said, obviously, it's not a good thing for us to push them closer together.
It means that sanctions are going to fail, so Russia's not going to stop being a bully.
It also means that all of the wealthy people in Russia are going to be able to move their
money in and out of Russia through China, through Chinese banks, through other currencies
besides the U.S. dollar.
We already, it's very unlikely that the U.S. is actually going to impact the Swift banking
system.
That's a devastating sanction that will actually impact Americans, so they're not going to
do that.
Explain that one, the Swift banking system.
The Swift system is a system that banks around the world use to transact very rapid.
Wire transfers?
Yeah.
Swift code from a bank?
Okay.
Correct, but most of us are Swift, if you're using a Swift code at all, it's because you're
wire transferring $1,000 here and there to pay for something.
That's also how big investment banks transfer hundreds of millions of dollars in investment.
To shut down the Swift accounts in Russia, or to make Russia, to take Russia off of the
list of people who can transact via Swift, is basically going to cut off all Americans
who have any investment benefits, any investment at all in Russia, including the American government
or American corporations that have any kind of investment that is tied to Russia.
It's going to shut off their ability to make money from their investment.
It's not going to work.
You're going to have outcries from wealthy Americans and wealthy corporations because
that's all globalized.
The world is globalized.
You can't just not use China for manufacturing yet.
You can build other supply chains, but as those other supply chains are being built,
you still have to work through China.
Sanctions are going to fail.
That's what we all know.
That's what any historian out there will tell you.
They've been failing for the last 12 to 15 years, so it's not going to change.
What it's doing is it's allowing China and Russia to have more of an investment in each
other.
Now, instead of investing in the US, Russia's going to invest in China.
China's instead of going to invest in the United States, they're going to invest in
Russia.
They're going to keep working together, just like we see them working on the UN Security
Council together, and they're going to keep backing each other, which also means they're
going to share intelligence, which also means they're going to share training, and they're
closer geographically than we are to either of them.
That's the direction that they're going in.
The Biden administration knows that.
The whole intelligence infrastructure has been watching this for decades, and we see
that that's the direction they're going.
Russia is full of poor, ignorant people.
China is full of poor, ignorant people.
We both have very strong dictators that have stayed in power many years longer than their
original purpose or original constitution said, with no intentions of leaving that office,
and they have both publicly pronounced that they have intentions and ambitions to take
territory that does not belong to them.
The writing is on the wall, folks.
We shouldn't be surprised when we see these things happen, right?
Moldova is in danger.
All the stands are in danger, Turkmenistan to Jikistan, the former Soviet states.
It's just a matter of time before Russia continues to expand and take those places that are worthless
economically to the United States.
But you're saying it really doesn't matter to us, whether Russia takes the Ukraine or
whether China takes Taiwan.
It matters to us in principle.
In principle, our morals, wherever those are.
But when it comes down to it, are we going to send American troops to die for Taiwan?
No, but we'll send billions of dollars in ammunition and in military power.
So we can win more money for Raytheon and our military industrial complex.
We win there.
Military industrial complex.
I mean, win with the media.
The media makes more money.
And when you think about it, what do Americans, like, what are our true values?
Our true values are?
Money.
How do we remain the economic superpower in the world?
Would you rather give up superpower status in exchange for becoming Taiwan's best friend
and protecting them against the China and going into a prolonged seven, 10, 12-year war
protecting them?
Or would you rather remain the world's economic superpower?
It's a practical decision.
Everybody listening is saying the same thing.
I'd rather stay the superpower.
And that sucks for Taiwan.
I'm just telling you, it'll happen in 2024.
Okay.
It still sucks.
The other big thing I want to talk to you about today is the war on misinformation
and speech.
You got the link I sent you.
Yeah.
The war is not on misinformation.
The war is technically on what's now being called malinformation, right?
The intentional twisting of factual information into a narrative that is what's the word I'm
looking for, intended to mislead or misguide.
Malinformation is what the war is on.
Misinformation is technically just wrong information, errant information.
If I tell you today that a Big Mac costs $1.75, but it actually costs $1.78, that's not
malinformation.
That's just me saying something wrong.
That's misinformation.
Right.
What I'm talking about specifically is what the Department of Homeland Security just released
something online saying that misinformation, releasing misinformation, is now considered
terrorism.
They implicitly said that the summary of the terrorism threat to U.S. military.
Before we do this, that's not what they said.
But let's go ahead and look at what they actually said.
Okay.
Let's look at it.
So if you scroll down, yeah, it's right there in the first couple lines.
The United States remains in a heightened threat of environment, a heightened threat environment
fueled by several factors, including an online environment filled with false or misleading
narratives and conspiracy theories and other forms of mis, dis, and malinformation or MDM
introduced and or amplified by foreign and domestic threat actors.
Correct.
What they actually said was not that misinformation is an act of terrorism.
What they said is the United States remains in a heightened threat environment and that
heightened threat environment is fueled by multiple factors, including mis, dis, and
malinformation from foreign and domestic, what was the threat actors, right?
Right.
So a domestic threat actor can mean a lot of different things.
It can mean an American who's intentionally spreading disinformation or malinformation.
It could also mean a foreigner inside the United States that's amplifying or spreading
those messages.
That's what a domestic threat actor is.
It's not just Americans.
It's any threat actor with a domestic footprint.
So this is one of those things that has been widely misquoted and widely misinterpreted
around the world and especially in the United States to say that, hey, if you speak out
against the American government, you're a terrorist now.
That in and of itself is an example of malinformation if the person is intentionally taking it out
of context or misinformation if the person is simply making a mistake when they quote
it.
So let's see what it says.
Number one, it says the proliferation of false or misleading narratives which sow discord
or undermine public trust in the U.S. government institutions.
The proliferation, which is intentional.
False or misleading narratives.
So that's kind of vague.
False or misleading narratives, like if you're talking about COVID and how COVID, the science
on COVID has changed every month for the last year.
That's not false or misleading.
The science has changed.
But people can claim it's false if it's wrong.
If you posted something a month ago and it was now it's changed and it's wrong, you could
easily say that that's false.
It's very easy to portray that, but when you're moving the goalpost like that, it's very easy
to portray that as false, similar to what they did with Joe Rogan by interviewing that
guy.
Right.
So you're right.
It is in a changing goalpost, then your accurate information one day becomes misinformation
a different day.
Exactly.
But I think the important thing there is that the goal is to say, right now the science
says this.
Yesterday, the science said that there was a post by the World Health Organization in
like March of 2020 that said COVID is not transmittable from person to person.
That was a Instagram post, a Twitter post from the World Health Organization.
That does not make that malinformation.
Now if you and I were to repost that today and send out in our social media profile,
see guys, COVID's fake.
It's not even real.
It can't be transmitted from person to person.
Now if we did that with the intent to deceive the American people and that could be proven
in a court of law, then that's exactly an example of not why we're terrorists, but it's
an example of why the United States remains in a heightened threat environment fueled
by domestic actors.
Yeah, exactly.
Like if you would have said a month ago that if you would have said that the vaccines do
not stop infection or transmission of COVID, that would have been considered misinformation.
Incorrect or incomplete information.
Now they admit it.
Now the pharmaceutical companies admit it.
But it would have not been malinformation.
What you're thinking about is you're thinking about this through the context of an American
citizen with the best of intentions to spread meaningful information.
What happened on Joe Rogan is a perfect example.
Joe Rogan had a guest who thought he was doing the right thing by saying what he believed
to be true.
There's no intent to deceive.
There's no intent to see discord, right?
What's the proliferation of false or misleading narratives, which so discord or undermine
public trust in the U.S. government institution?
That's the effect of it, not necessarily the intent of it.
Correct.
The intent is all that matters because if you look here what they're talking about is
the proliferation.
So in order to spread something, it means that you are intentionally spreading.
If I just say something and it becomes viral, that's not intentional.
If you believe it's true and you want to intentionally spread it to make the world
a better place, of course you're trying to spread, you're trying to make your narrative
viral because you think it's the right narrative.
By going on Joe Rogan, you're going to go viral no matter what you're talking about.
But this doesn't make you a terrorist.
This just is an example, right?
While the conditions underlying heightened threat landscape have not significantly changed
over the last year, right there it's saying it's been like this for the last year.
The convergence of the following factors has increased the volatility, unpredictability
and complexity environment.
So the bullets that you're reading through, these aren't things that make you a terrorist.
These aren't reasons that the U.S. government is going to hunt you down.
These are examples of why these, these are examples of the factors that have increased
the volatility, unpredictability and complexity of the environment.
It's easy to misinterpret this, especially...
It's saying that these are the reasons that we're in a heightened environment.
Exactly right.
Exactly right.
Thank you, brother.
Continue called for violence.
What was number two?
Continue called for violence directed at U.S. critical infrastructures, soft targets and
mass gatherings, faith-based institutions such as churches, synagogues, mosques, institutions
of higher education, racial, religious, minority groups, government facilities and personnel,
including law enforcement and the military, the media, the perceived ideological opponents
and three calls by foreign terrorist organizations for attacks on the United States based on
recent events.
Right.
Because there's all sorts of things you don't even hear about because you don't, you don't
follow them, right?
So if you're, if you're really into like far right radical violent stuff, there's an algorithm
that finds you and shares this stuff with you.
If you are, if you're into like radical Islam, if you're into radical Catholicism, if you're
into radical anything, there's an algorithm that's going to send you more radical stuff.
Those are the people who are seeing a lot of what you see here in two and three.
You and I don't see what happens in two and three because we're not radicalized.
That's, that's not on us.
What's, the challenge has been for Facebook and Twitter and LinkedIn and all the other
social media platforms, they've had to learn how to change their algorithms so that they're
not promoting, they're not helping to spread intentional malinformation or lies which are
disinformation, right?
Disinformation is something that you know is false and you're saying it anyways.
Malinformation is, it's something you know is true, but you're taking it out of context
so that it sounds a certain way.
So those two things are the big, the big threats, foreign actors, radicalized groups take advantage
of disinformation and malinformation all the time.
But it's like, like we talked about a minute ago, it's all about intent, right?
So it's, I feel like what the, what the fear is with things like this is this just makes
it easier for the US government to decide who is and who is not considered a terrorist
or a threat or someone, or who can be silenced.
But how can you really judge somebody's intent?
Yeah.
So I'm, I'm, I'm not going to agree with you on that.
It doesn't make it easier for the US government to do anything.
Like the same way, like the same way.
They still have to prove it in a court of law, right?
So if there isn't a preponderance of truth by a panel of your peers, then it can't be
proven in a court of law.
This makes it actually quite a bit more difficult for the US government to build a case against
anybody.
The intention of this, the intention of this DHS bulletin is to basically send a message
to everybody in an election year that there's nefarious actors out there trying to lie
to you.
If you recall in the lead up to the election in 2020, the center for counterintelligence,
the head of the counterintelligence center also made a public statement telling everybody,
Hey, everybody, in the lead up to this year's election, I want you to know that there's bad
people out there who are lying to you all the time, right?
Don't, don't trust what you see in social media.
Don't trust what you read in the headlines.
Like double check and confirm your sources and your information.
People get these warnings all the time, especially on election years when, when foreign actors
and terrorists and even domestic actors all over the world are redoubling their efforts
to try to influence how people are going to react.
What's especially difficult about midterm elections is that midterm elections are usually
decided by a demographic that votes every two years where four year elections are influenced
by a demographic of people who only vote once every 10 to 12 years.
So it's a different demographic specifically.
It's an older demographic that they're trying to influence every two years and a younger
demographic that they're trying to influence every four years.
So that changes what kind of misinformation, what kind of disinformation, what kind of
platform they use, that's this is obviously has, I mean, this is obviously targeted specifically
at COVID and like election fraud, right?
What they call election fraud.
So those are two examples that they use those are the two main examples for this, right?
But it's, I mean, it's aimed at more than that too.
It's going to be aimed at all the conspiracy theorists who claim that Biden is trying to
hide failed COVID policies.
He's not trying to hide failed COVID policies.
Did the COVID policies fail?
Some would say yes.
Some would say no.
Some would say they weren't strong enough.
Who knows?
But it's a conspiracy to say that Ukraine and Russia happened because Biden is trying
to hide something.
Russia and Ukraine were going to happen.
Russia chose the timing.
Russia happened to choose a year when Biden, when the United States is going to the polls
again and when he wants Biden to look bad.
He wants America to look at the US administration.
He wants us to look at our own administration and say, hey, we look weak on the world stage.
Because maybe that's going to change how we vote in the midterm.
Who knows?
He also knows that America is not going to take a lot of action right now and that Biden
is not the kind of president that's going to do that.
So that's, that's what this is talking about.
The intentional spread of diss or malinformation that's intended to sow discord, that's intended
to call for public violence, you know, that those are bad, bad things.
Those are fringe things.
The kind of people who get censored like today on social media are anyone who, who questions
the morals of the pharmaceutical companies or of, or of the military or of things like
that.
And these, these big social media companies are not necessarily government, but they can,
they can pick and choose who they sound.
For example, we talked about last time Trump getting, getting banned off Twitter and people
getting banned off Twitter for, for talking down about the, for talking about the negative
effects of vaccines.
And those social media companies are influenced by this.
They're not, they're not influenced.
Those social media, those, those companies are being, are being policyed.
Right.
Exactly.
It's not even influenced.
It's a direct policy.
They want to stay out, if they want to keep their business doors open, they have to play
by these rules.
Exactly.
And it's going to also require a lot of people to self censor on what they talk about because
they want to keep their livelihood.
Right.
We want to keep this podcast going.
Okay.
Well, I have to not talk about COVID.
I have to not talk about vaccines.
No, you have to not intentionally spread disinformation or malinformation.
And that's a big gray area.
How could you say how I'm intentionally, like, like, am I intentionally spreading disinformation
right now?
Like, you could easily post a headline, find the headline of this podcast, find one little
clip of this podcast and say, oh yeah, I'm intentionally spreading that information.
If somebody were to do that, that is an example of malinformation.
Right.
If somebody were to do that, that's an example.
Exactly.
So if that goes, no, no, you're not hearing me.
If you have a podcast, if we have this podcast, whatever, 90 minute podcast, where we talk
about openly talk about what is disinformation, what is malinformation, what is misinformation,
and then somebody else from, like, the Department of Justice or the, you know, whatever, Security
Department of Florida, if they come in and they choose one 15-second clip where it's
where, where out of your voice is coming, vaccines don't work in COVID, right?
COVID vaccines don't work.
If they take that alone and they try to shut you down, that is them being guilty.
Exactly.
That means when that goes in front of a court, you win the case.
Right.
But are you going to go in front of a court?
Are you just going to get silenced off YouTube?
If you get suspended from YouTube, you're not going to go to court.
If you get, yeah.
So then that's on, that's, I see what you're saying.
If YouTube decides to go down that road, ultimately, which they have for many, many people, that's
going to suffer.
That's going to make YouTube suffer.
Right.
And YouTube's already doing it.
This is just going to make it go faster.
It's going to, and ultimately, those platforms are going to have to decide which direction
they want to go.
Because if they go down the road of silencing everybody who has an opinion that is controversial,
then all of a sudden they're going to have a very whitewashed channel and no one's going
to watch that.
They're going to lose the media game.
That's up to them to decide, right?
It's just like what happened with Twitter and Parler.
Like Twitter shut down Trump, Parler exploded, people shut down Parler, you know, and then
all the crazies went underground and now they're communicating with whatever, WhatsApp or who
knows what.
Right, right, right.
But my point in all of this is companies have to decide what they're going to do.
Just like Apple had to make a decision about how they were going, like they have to make
a call about what they stand for.
YouTube has to make a call about what it's going to stand for.
Google has to make a stand about what it's going to stand for.
As far as business owner to business owner, if you are 100% reliant on YouTube, you need
to diversify.
You are essentially guilty of the same thing that Apple is guilty of depending on their
one supply chain through China.
If your one supply chain for reaching an audience is YouTube, you need to diversify.
Let's get Concrete.com up and let's have your own channel that just exists on Concrete.com.
Let's have you go be a guest on other people's podcast.
That's what Alex Jones has done.
That's the smart way to do it because once when you can control your own content, nobody
else can shut it down.
It takes a lawsuit to shut you down.
If the lawsuit doesn't stand in a panel of your peers, it fails.
Failed lawsuits are a fantastic marketing tool.
That's the thing.
It's unfair for anyone to say that a social media platform is silencing voices in order
to appease the American government because a social media platform is just a business.
It's just a business.
Trying to make money.
Trying to make money.
Trying to survive.
Just like you and I as business owners are trying to survive every day and if we're doing
something that the United States government tells us is going to shut us down, we're not
going to do that anymore.
We're going to find something else to do.
So when they shut down Trump or when they shut down crazy voices one way or the other
and they justify it however they want to justify it, for every one voice that they shut down,
they're pissing off 50,000, 100,000, 200,000 users and they're going to lose those users.
They're going to lose the revenue that comes in from those users clicking and surfing around.
That's how, I mean, I can't even remember the name of the platform anymore.
What was the chat platform that had a little ghost on it?
Oh, Snapchat.
Is Snapchat even a thing anymore?
It's still out there?
Oh, yeah.
I didn't know about it.
Yeah.
Right?
So people, I used to use it.
I don't use it anymore.
It lost its utility for me.
So that's the direction that all apps are bound to go if they don't evolve and protect
their users.
The fear a lot of people talk about with moves like this, especially when it is so tied into
social media and government, is there's a government's creep on power.
The government's never ending creep on power, just like the Patriot Act.
And where does that lead us?
That's the pyramid.
That's the pyramid.
That's where China is.
Does it lead us to China?
Yeah, it leads us to China.
A one-party system leads us to China.
So all you asshole Democrats, all you asshole Republicans who think that you want everybody
to be Republican or everybody to be Democrat, what you are wishing on yourself is a future
state like China.
Our power, the American superpower, is our democracy, is the fact that we live in conflict
all the time.
We need people on both sides of the fence.
We need people to disagree.
We need the constant churn, the constant conflict.
That's what we need to remain above simple influence campaigns.
It's very hard for Russia or China to influence our entire country.
They can influence one side or the other, but they can't influence everybody because
we have this constant conflict.
It's the secret sauce to democracy.
It's why democracy is hard.
It's why it's failed in so many places.
And it's what we need to lean into.
We need to understand that condemning the opposite people who think differently than us is just
a path to a one-party system and a one-party system is called China.
That's not where I want to go.
I want to live in the muck, in the conflict, in the consternation because we're going
to get stronger there.
And the sooner that we learn to kind of embrace the muck instead of get angry at each other
over the dirtiness, so if you get a chance to go to a high echelon government function,
that's an amazing thing because on CNBC or on CNN or on the news, you'll see representative,
Democratic representative, Republican representative disagreeing and calling each other out and
making it look like they can't get along.
You go to the high-functioning event, the high-level function in Washington, D.C., they're
sitting there having a beer because they're friends because they embrace the conflict.
Their real challenge is getting elected every two years or every six years to stay in the
Senate or stay in the Congress.
That's their big challenge.
Everything else is just kind of rhetoric.
Let's fight and make sure that we move as slowly as possible so that we never make the
mistake of building momentum and kind of letting ourselves get railroaded by our own momentum.
That's what the forefathers originally intended with the United States and it's worked and
it keeps working and I trust it.
I'm not going to be somebody who says that we need to shut down either side or that either
side is right or wrong.
Of course not.
When you look at the center and you look at just to the left of center, just to the right
of center, it's the bell curve.
That's the bell curve where the magic happens.
The majority of Americans live in that bell curve.
The majority of your Congress people and senators live in that bell curve and the people on the
fringes are just the loudest.
Trust this, this is going to keep working.
We're going to be fine.
What would happen if we got rid of lobbying or lobbyists, corporations, funding politicians?
Getting rid of lobbyists would not be as powerful I think as people think.
Putting terms on congressmen and senators would be much more effective, well specifically
on congresspeople.
Putting terms on congresspeople would be massively effective.
Lobbyists don't make that much of a difference.
Or congresspeople being able to buy and sell stocks.
When you make professional politicians, that's a problem.
Lobbyists are just there to support or drive the prioritization of whatever they're lobbying
for.
They're not the ones that are the ultimate decision maker.
When they get a chance to lobby in an institution where there's no limit to how long someone
is in power, you could be a democratic congressperson in Virginia forever.
Now all of a sudden it's an issue.
Now it's like the one lobbyist can just go to you with the same offer.
Every time there's a new policy that's about to come out that might impact big tobacco
or big alcohol or big oil.
That's a challenge.
I'm not worried about lobbyists.
Lobbyists have a legitimate value add.
Congresspeople with no term limits do not have a value add.
They're not beneficial to the United States.
I hope that that's going to be our next evolution in our democratic process.
Paying Congresspeople out of Congress after two, three, four terms, something, but don't
let them spend an entire career in Congress.
What do you think about the argument of paying politicians or people in Congress a couple
million bucks a year, five, six, seven million dollars a year, and just banish lobbying?
Get rid of lobbying.
So these people make enough money to where they don't have to have the outside interests.
The purpose of lobbying is not for the outside.
Congresspeople already make a shit ton of money.
They make $250,000 a year.
Right.
Well, they really make millions, but their salary is like $200,000 a year, right?
Which is way above the average constituent that they're representing.
If you've ever met a wealthy person, I have been blessed to have lots of wealthy clients.
Whether they make $8 million a year or whether they make $28 million a year or $208 million
a year.
It's never enough.
Well, it doesn't matter to them.
Once you're basically like a decimillionaire, then at that level, most people, they'll tell
you like they don't have a need for money.
They don't look at money as a resource anymore.
It's just about winning or losing.
Somebody else manages it.
It's just about winning or losing.
Winning or losing, whatever the thing is that they're choosing to win or lose.
Sometimes that's horse racing.
Sometimes that's young girlfriends.
Sometimes that's stocks or whatever else.
They're not thinking about money.
They're just thinking about winning or losing whatever interest area they have.
So the thing that's like when a congressperson becomes that wealthy, it's just about winning
or losing.
It's not about the money.
People who live at less than $1 million a year, we think of it as money because the
money, we can't afford the next biggest house or the next Bentley or whatever else.
We have to think about how do we get there?
When you have $15 million in net worth, what can't you have?
If you're really thinking about a multi-billion-dollar yacht like some Saudi Prince, then good luck.
For the most part, you can have pretty much anything you want in the American existence
if you've got $15 million in net worth.
And that's not a lot of money in the terms of ultra-wealthy people, decimillionaires,
people who have more than 10, that's not a lot of money.
People who have more than $100 million in net worth, now you're getting into a more
elite group, but there's still tens of thousands of people who have more than $100 million
in net worth.
Lobbyists, small impact.
And anybody who wants to focus on lobbyists is focusing on the wrong thing.
Lobbyists don't have the power.
The people who have the power are the congressmen.
If you can police Congress, lobbying is going to have to change its tactics.
And to be very honest with you, there are going to be more people willing to raise their
hand and run for a congressional seat as long as lobbyists exist.
Because now, if you're like a teacher or if you're like a janitor or an airplane tech,
if you're a normal everyday person and you find out that there's a congressional seat
up for election because the term limit just hit and last year in the previous congressperson
is not going to be there anymore, you might raise your hand and actually compete.
If you know, you're going to make $250,000 a year plus some extra bennies if you agree
with the right lobbyists to represent your home district.
The district that you're going to go back home to and how are they going to greet you?
You've got to serve them.
Right now, professional politicians don't have to serve their home constituency.
They only have to serve the small constituency that actually votes for them every election
cycle.
It's not a true representation.
Well, Andrew, we run out of time.
Sorry, man.
I can talk for hours with you.
I can sit here and talk for another six hours with you.
But unfortunately, we're going to have to bring that back for round four.
We'll save your users.
Yeah, we'll save your listeners.
Dude, thank you so much.
Thank you for the last talking about this shit.
Tell people who listening or watching where they can follow what you're doing.
Yeah.
So follow me on my website, everydayspy.com.
I have a top 1% podcast myself called the Everyday Espionage Podcast.
You can find it on any platform, YouTube or any podcast platform out there.
Love that podcast.
Thanks, brother.
Take a listen, subscribe.
I'll teach you something new every day.
And otherwise, you can also just reach out to me through any of my social media channels
at Everyday Spy, whether that's Instagram or Facebook or not Snapchat.
Awesome, bro.
Thank you so much.
I fucking always love getting your insight, especially when it comes to foreign policy
and that kind of shit.
I appreciate it.
So fascinating.
Thanks, Dan.
So fascinating.
Cool.
All right.
Goodbye, world.
