For people who aren't familiar with your story, you were a CIA spy for a number of years
and you eventually blew the whistle on one of the CIA's interrogation programs and essentially
got prosecuted and spent two years in federal prison, is that right?
I spent 15 years in the CIA.
The first half of my career was in intelligence, in analysis, exclusively on Iraq.
And then I got bored after a while and I made a very unusual transfer from analysis to operations.
I went to the CIA's counterterrorism center, became a counterterrorism operations officer,
a spy essentially, and then chief of CIA counterterrorism operations in Pakistan after 9-11,
led a series of raids that resulted in our very first high-value target captures and
then went back to CIA headquarters, got promoted on the strength of those captures.
And then just as I got promoted, I was named executive assistant to the CIA's deputy director.
That's when we started this torture program and I objected to it pretty strenuously.
And waited for somebody to say something.
It took years and in the end nobody said anything.
And then finally I said, this has to be out there.
And so I told ABC News and the CIA fell on my head with its full weight and they prosecuted
me and I went to prison for 23 months, zero regrets, none.
And yeah, I mean, I came out stronger on the other end.
I'm not a, it's funny, when you're in your 20s and your 30s, you think you have your
life all mapped out like the way it's supposed to be.
I figured, okay, I'm in the CIA, I'm smart, I have advanced degrees, I'm kind of political,
I'm playing the game, everybody's supposed to play to get ahead.
And in my mind, and my wife was a senior CIA officer and she said one time, you know,
we're going to be running this place someday.
And I was like, yeah, we're going to run the place.
Next thing you know, I'm like a dissident and I'm headed to prison and then she leaves.
So your life's not all mapped out.
I went to prison, I came back, all of a sudden I'm famous, thanks to them, I never intended
to be.
And people sort of viewed me as this spokesman against torture and in support of transparency
and anti-corruption and Julian Assange and the weirdest things happen.
You know, like, I'll be feeling sorry for myself, right?
And when I first got home from prison, can't get a job anywhere.
And then Yoko Ono calls to see how I'm doing, seriously.
Or I'm thinking, oh, you know, maybe I'll get into radio, which is what I do now mostly.
Maybe I'll get into radio and then Oliver Stone calls to ask if I can be the technical
advisor on some film he's doing.
It's the craziest, weirdest thing.
Wow, what did Oliver Stone call you about?
Oh my God.
Oliver bought the rights to my first book.
It's kind of a funny story if you have a minute to listen to.
I've got plenty of minutes.
So Oliver bought the rights to my first book.
I've written nine books so far.
And he wanted to do this show on what it was like inside the CIA the day before the 9-11
attacks, the day of the 9-11 attacks, and then the day after and onward where you've
got all these really smart, patriotic people who want to do the right thing and serve their
country and then they become torturers, kidnappers, murderers, like how does that happen in 48
hours?
And it did.
That's how it happened.
And so we actually sold it to the History Channel as a one-season, they wanted to do
it as a mini-series.
And Oliver said he wanted to choose the writer.
So we're waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting and we're like, what are you doing?
And he said, I can't find the right person.
And then History Channel said, just forget it.
And they dropped it.
Oh, man.
Yeah, I was so mad.
And then he calls me like two years later and he said, did we sell a show together?
And I said, yeah, it was based on my first book.
He said, what was that show about?
So I told him what I just told you.
And he said, right, right, right.
Did we write anything?
And I said, yeah, we wrote the first episode.
That's what we gave to History Channel.
And he says, send me that.
I'm looking for something to do.
So I send it back to him.
And then he calls me again the next day and he's like, yeah, I'm not interested in doing
this anymore.
Really?
I was like, okay.
Wow.
Yeah, he's a strange guy.
He's hard to get along with.
Is he really?
Yeah.
Because I followed his, I followed his documentaries that he did on Ukraine after the whole Ukraine
thing happened.
And I started watching that.
And did you notice his documentary got banned from YouTube?
Oh, yeah, it sure did.
Which was wild.
Yep.
Yep.
You know what?
One of the things that I admire about him, and I'm sorry to get so far off subject, but
he doesn't care what anybody thinks about him.
And I think that's wonderful.
It's liberating.
Yeah.
You know?
You do what you think is right.
You leave in yourself and you genuinely don't care what people think about you.
You can accomplish all kinds of stuff.
Well, he's been through it.
Oh, my God.
I mean, from being in the Vietnam War and everything, all the work he's done from the
history of the United States and that documentary.
And he just knows so much, I feel like.
And it's so weird to me when people, you know, he obviously has a lot of people who talk,
you know, against his work and say like the stuff that he says is kind of biased.
Yeah.
It's not right.
Very anti-American.
He gets labeled anti-American.
And he's not.
He's a patriot.
That's the funny thing.
He's a patriot who thinks that there are so many things that the government has done
wrong or that the government has done that have been illegal or that has been illegal.
And he wants to spotlight it, right, and bring it to the attention of all Americans and people
say, oh, you hate America.
You know, I don't know if the CIA killed John Kennedy, but Oliver certainly thinks that
they did and he's got some, you know, documents that I don't know, it kind of makes it seem
plausible.
Again, I don't know.
His new documentary about that, I don't know if you've seen it or not, but it's pretty
matter of fact.
It is.
It is.
I don't even know if that's even considered a conspiracy theory anymore.
I think it's pretty much everybody knows about it and just doesn't really talk about
it.
Yeah.
It's very mainstream.
Yeah.
Another thing, like his, his, we're getting way off topic here, but we can, we can bring
it back.
We got time.
The Putin interviews that he did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think he's the only guy who spent, you know, over 48 hours sitting alone with Putin
and talking to him about things and getting his point of view.
And I thought those things, I thought that was one of the most fascinating pieces of
work I've seen.
And you see the respect that Putin treated him with too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, he got criticized for not like being harder on Putin during the interviews.
Like, why didn't you push back harder on, like when he went on the Colbert show and
he said, well, why don't you challenge him on that or talk, you know, put him in line
for saying that.
And he's like, well, if you're going to be in my position, in the position of interviewing
Putin in the first place, you have to have some sort of respect for him as a, as a human
being in the leader of our country.
You can't just fucking shit down his throat.
That's right.
You can't.
It's not going to work.
It's not going to get you anywhere.
Right.
So what do you, what sort of criticism have you gotten, if any, from your position and
from, from what you did with the CIA as far as like whistleblowing and coming out against
the, the, um, that program?
It depends.
It depends who you talk to.
Um, I'll tell you, one of the funny things that happened is after my prosecution, two
of the FBI agents who were involved in prosecuting me called my attorneys and apologized to them
and said that, uh, this was a political case.
They did it because they were ordered to do it.
And they just wanted to express their, their, um, apologies.
I said, no hard feelings.
Water under the bridge.
Right.
I mean, I'm, I'm sort of a, I've come to be a believer in fate.
And if this is the way that things were supposed to happen, then this is the way things are
supposed to happen.
You really get to see who your friends are.
I'll tell you that, uh, when something like this happens.
So you know, for the most part, people were like, oh my God, what you did was so brave.
Nobody else had the guts to do it.
And then there were a couple of people like there's a right wing newspaper in Washington
called the Washington, uh, times, uh, it's owned by the, the Mooneys, you know, the,
the Reverend Sun, young moon and the unification church.
It's that cult from South Korea.
Um, so they, they called me a traitor, a bad actor, um, uh, pro, uh, terrorist.
It's like, yeah, I don't remember you be in there when we were kicking down doors and
taking down Al Qaeda.
So I'm pro terrorist, right.
Saying that you whistle blue on a, a torture program makes you a pro terrorist pro terrorist.
You know, my, my point has always been very simple that, that the American people have
a right to know what the government is doing in their name.
And it is illegal.
We actually have a law in this country.
It is illegal to classify something that is a crime.
You cannot put a classification on something for the purpose of keeping it from the public.
And so we're, we're signatories to the United Nations convention against torture, right?
We were the authors actually of the United Nations convention against torture.
And we have a law in this country called the federal torture act of 1946, which specifically
outlawed exactly those things that we were doing against, uh, or doing to Al Qaeda prisoners.
Let me add to that.
Pardon me, but I'm interrupting this episode to bring you our question of the week on versus
game.
The question is, will bam at a bayou of the Miami heat score more than 15 points during
game five of the Eastern conference finals?
Go download versus game, follow concrete and then vote on our question so you can make
some internet money, buddy.
That's versus game, one word, no spaces.
Go vote now back to the show in 1946.
We executed Japanese soldiers who waterboarded American POWs, right?
That was a death penalty offense to waterboard somebody in January of 1968.
The Washington post ran a front page photograph of an American soldier in Vietnam waterboarding
a North Vietnamese prisoner on the day that that photo was published.
The secretary of defense, Robert McNamara ordered an investigation.
The soldier was arrested.
He was charged with torture, convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
Well, the law never changed.
We changed.
So how is this a death penalty offense in 1946?
It's worthy of 20 years at Lenworth in 1968, but then in 2002, no problem.
You know, you want to waterboard the guy, go ahead, waterboard him.
You want to chain him to an eye bolt in the ceiling and chill his cell to 50 degrees and
then throw ice water on him every, every hour until he dies of hypothermia.
Go ahead.
He's going to stop you.
Well, why not?
That's illegal and we shouldn't be doing it.
Let me tell you another thing.
When I was on assignment to the State Department, I served for two years in Bahrain, little
tiny country in the Persian Gulf, same size and same population as Pittsburgh, right?
And one of the things that we do in every country around the world where we have an
American embassy is we write a human rights report every year.
And the human rights report is mandated by Congress.
So we write it in the field.
We interview attorneys and activists and government people and journalists.
We write this thing up and we send it to Congress every year.
So I was the human rights officer in Bahrain and I had to write the human rights report.
So tell me, if you were the Bahraini Minister of Interior and I come to you and I say, your
Excellency, you cannot murder 15-year-olds because they marched in a pro-democracy demonstration,
right?
I'm going to have to write that up and send it to Congress and maybe they're not going
to want to sell you F-18s, right?
Because you did this.
You cannot just murder people when you don't like their politics.
And then 15 minutes later, the CIA station chief walks in and says, don't listen to the
human rights guy.
We want you to open a secret prison here and we're going to bring prisoners and we're
going to torture them here or you torture them for us and then you give us a write-up
of what they say and we'll give you all the F-18s you want.
Who's he going to listen to?
Is he going to listen to me?
Right.
He's not going to listen to me.
Right.
But the problem is that what the CIA station chief is telling him he wants is illegal.
You can't do it.
Now, reasonable people can agree to disagree on how to confront terrorism, but if you want
to torture people, you have to change the law and nobody's had the balls to do it.
Wow.
What were you doing in ... Well, first of all, I've had other former CIA officers in
here and we've spoken about things like Snowden and Julian Assange and other whistleblowers
and the consensus seems to be among most of those people, former government officials,
is that they did the right thing, but they did the wrong way.
What is your feeling on that when people say that?
What do you think about if you could go back in time, what if you were to take your complaint
or whatever you said on ABC up the chain of command and if you would have done it the
right way?
What do you think would have happened?
Do you think anything would have changed?
That's a very good question.
It's a very difficult question.
For me personally, I've thought about this a million times.
I play this over in my head all the time.
My situation was an unusual one because my chain of command created the torture program.
Going back to the capture of Abu Zubaydah, for example, in March 2002, I came back to
CIA headquarters and I was in the cafeteria one day and one of my colleagues from the
Counterterrorism Center came up to me and said, hey, very casually, hey, I'm glad I
caught you.
I wanted to ask you, do you want to be certified in the use of enhanced interrogation techniques?
I had never heard that term before.
I said, enhanced interrogation technique, what's that supposed to mean?
Kind of excitedly, he says, we're going to start getting rough with these guys.
I said, what's that mean?
He described these 10 techniques and I said, buddy, that sounds like a torture program
to me.
He said, no, it's not.
We got it cleared by the Justice Department and the president signed off on it a couple
of days ago.
I said, I don't know, man, let me think about it.
Give me an hour.
Let me think about it.
I went upstairs to the seventh floor, which is the executive floor of the CIA.
There was a very, very senior CIA leader who I worked for in the Middle East 10 years earlier.
I knocked on his door and I said, I got to ask some advice.
I said, they just asked me if I want to be trained in these enhanced interrogation techniques.
What do you think of that?
He said very clearly, first of all, he said, let's call it what it is.
This is a torture program.
You know how these guys are.
He said, somebody's going to go overboard and they're going to kill a prisoner.
When that happens, there's going to be a congressional investigation, then there's going to be a Justice
Department investigation, then somebody's going to go to prison.
You want to go to prison?
I said, no, I don't want to go to prison.
As it turned out, I was the only person who went to prison, but I said, no, no, I don't
want to go to prison.
I went downstairs and I said, man, this is a torture program and I don't want any part
of it.
When it turned out, they had asked 14 people from CTC, the Counterterrorism Center.
I was the only one who said, no, and then, and here I am six weeks after I catch the
number three in Al Qaeda and I get passed over for promotion.
I went into the deputy director's office.
We were old friends.
I had worked for him in a previous assignment and I said, what do I have to do to get promoted
around here?
I have to catch bin Laden?
Like seriously, what more do you guys want from me?
And he said, you know, they call you the human rights guy.
I said, so he said, that's not a compliment.
So I thought, okay, well, this is my lot in life.
I'm going to have to be the human rights guy.
And then the guy that I had asked for advice promoted me out of cycle.
And he said, can I swear on this?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
He said, you know why they fucked you?
And I said, yeah, because I wouldn't torture Abu Zubedah.
And he said precisely, he said, now, I'm going to promote you now, but the next promotion
is on you, meaning I'm probably not going to get promoted again unless these guys start
to retire, which is normally the way it happens.
You have to wait them out.
So I thought, well, you know, this is so clearly wrong.
It's so clearly illegal besides being immoral and unethical.
Like who do I report this to?
And so very discreetly and quietly, I started to investigate.
Well, I can't report it to my boss.
My boss was the founder, the creator of the torture program.
It was his idea.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
My supervisor.
Can you say his name?
Jose Rodriguez.
Okay.
Another guy who was a CIA psychologist, who actually lives...
Mitchell and Jessen.
Is that who it was?
Okay.
James Mitchell and Bruce Jessen.
James Mitchell.
That's the one that I heard of.
Okay.
They live right here in Tampa, something like that.
Do they really?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
And Jose lives in St. Augustine.
That's so funny.
They all came to Florida.
Yeah, they all came to Florida.
So I can't go to my boss.
The program was compartmentalized, which means that you need special clearances above top
secret to even know about it.
So I couldn't go to the inspector general because he wasn't cleared for the information.
Can you imagine that?
The inspector general, this is so highly classified that the inspector general is not cleared
for the information.
I couldn't go there.
I couldn't go to the general counsel's office because they were the ones that worked with
justice to legalize it.
Couldn't go to justice, obviously.
So what do you do?
You go to the congressional oversight committees.
You go to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence.
The problem is they were the ones that secretly signed off on it and appropriated the money
to fund it.
So I'm screwed.
So where do I go?
The only place to go is the media.
That was it.
That was my situation.
With Assange and Snowden, it's different.
I was a Snowden supporter from the very beginning.
What he wanted to blow the whistle on was the fact that NSA was spying on American citizens.
Not only is it against the law for NSA to spy on American citizens, it's a part of the
NSA's charter that they're not allowed to spy on American citizens.
Since 9-11, it's been literally dragnet warrantless wiretapping on all American communications.
Well, that's illegal.
And again, if you want to intercept Americans' communications, fine, but you got to change
the law.
So Snowden couldn't go to the oversight committees.
Snowden couldn't go to his boss.
They were all involved.
Here's another NSA whistleblower who's become a dear friend of mine by the name of Tom
Drake.
So Tom Drake was the first person to blow the whistle on NSA's warrantless wiretapping.
His story, make your hair stand up.
On 9-11, 9-11 was his first day at NSA.
He had been an officer in the Air Force, and then he joined NSA in the senior intelligence
service.
So he's arguably the country's leading expert on internet privacy issues.
So on 9-11, it's his first day, and he said they were like giddy at NSA because they were
just waiting for us to be attacked so they could start implementing all these programs
that they had developed that they knew were illegal so they couldn't implement them.
And then when the attack comes, all you have to say is national security, and you can do
whatever you want.
So Tom said, wait a minute, wait a minute.
You guys want to implement this program that intercepts the communications of all Americans
when we have this other program, this smaller program called Stellar Wind that recognizes
when the communication is from a bad guy or a suspected bad guy, and so instead of just
grabbing everybody's phone calls and text messages and emails, it only grabs the bad
guy's phone calls, text messages and emails.
That was Stellar Wind.
Stellar Wind.
And they told him to mind his business.
So he went through the chain of command.
First he went to his boss.
His boss told him, you're new, this is none of your business, you don't know what you're
doing.
So he thought about it for a while, and he went to the inspector general at NSA.
The inspector general, like the CIA inspector general, wasn't read into the program and
told him, I don't know what the heck you're talking about.
We're not allowed to intercept the communications of Americans.
Then he went to the general counsel.
The general counsel said, you're in way over your head, buddy.
You need to stop.
So then he went to the Pentagon inspector general because NSA is a division, a bureau
of the Defense Department.
What did the inspector general do at the Pentagon?
They destroyed the evidence that he brought out to prove his case.
They shredded everything.
So he decided then he's going to go to the oversight committee.
So he goes to the house permanent select committee on intelligence and says, listen, NSA, since
9-11, they've been intercepting the phone calls, emails and text messages of all Americans,
everybody.
And so what happened when the committee asked NSA for clarification?
They raided Tom's house.
They arrested him.
They charged him with seven counts of espionage and two counts of theft of government property
being the information.
The information's in his head.
He walked out of the building with the information.
He stole it.
He stole it and gave it to the congressional oversight committee.
I apologize.
I hit the camera.
In the end.
They're saying he stole it just because he remembered it?
Yes.
Yeah.
In the end, they were forced to drop all the charges against him because he did it exactly
the way that we were taught to do it.
But like many of us in the intelligence community, his wife was an NSA officer, just like mine
was a CIA officer.
And when they were arresting him, the FBI went to his wife and said, we're arresting
your husband and raiding your house right now as we speak.
You're either with him or you're with us.
And she chose them.
So he lost everything.
He lost his pension.
He lost his house.
He lost his five kids.
He lost his marriage, you know?
I have to, there's a, just being a devil's advocate, there's another guy who I had on
here, his, his name's Andrew, he was a former CIA spy, and, and I made this sort of argument
to him and his, his response was, you have to be okay with giving up freedoms for, for
the United States government.
That is a very common and very typical right wing troop because what he laid out was this
pyramid that resembles the creation of a state.
He said on the lowest, on the lowest level of the pyramid, you have individualism, which
is we all are out for ourselves.
We can all go, you know, kill whoever we want, take whatever we want.
The second level of the pyramid is tribalism, where you have the tribes.
And basically what that does, that's, that protects me from, that protects you from me
going into your tribe and clubbing your wife over the head and stealing her, and you doing
the same to me.
That's, that's tribalism.
He said the next level of the pyramid is the creation of a state where you have this,
this separate government that basically protects, that, that does all this stuff for us.
That's what taxes are for, and that's what the government is for, to keep us all safe
and to do all these things and to deal with other countries and keep the balance, the
world balance in check.
And his argument for that is you have, you know, you have to be okay with the government
infringing on our privacy, infringing on, on certain amount of things to a certain extent.
And, and that's one philosophy of democracy that's incompatible with mine.
Remember Dick Cheney was asked about all the innocent people that we had at Guantanamo.
We had over 700 people at Guantanamo at one point, and almost all of them were innocent
of any crime.
And he said that he would rather arrest a million innocent people than to allow one
guilty person to, to get off Scott's feet.
Did he really say that?
Yeah.
And it's the same idea.
Like these guys would rather take away our civil liberties to stop another attack.
I would rather maintain my civil liberties and risk another attack because the civil
liberties are more important to me.
What is it common for husband and wife to be in the CIA together?
Very, in fact, the CIA culture is such that they encourage CIA romances because you're
both cleared.
So you can talk about, you know, shit at night when you're laying in bed and you're
not violating your secrecy agreement.
Listen, the CIA has softball leagues and football leagues and LGBTQ organizations and
a quilting league and Christian organizations.
Everything that you would want to do in your life, you know, with other people, it's inside
the CIA.
And that way you can talk about work and they can talk about work and nobody gets in
trouble.
They try to keep you insulated from the outside world.
They don't want you talking to other people out there.
It's it's unsafe.
What were you doing in 2001?
You were in Pakistan.
I went to Pakistan in January of 2002.
OK, when we started bombing Torah Bora at the end of of October of 2001 and we pushed
Al Qaeda over the border.
So instead of trying to, you know, climb these forbidding mountains to capture them
one at a time, I had this idea.
It just it seems so simple.
But nobody had thought of it at the time.
And I said, listen, if we're just going to carpet bomb them in Torah Bora, we can kill
who we're able to kill.
But the rest of them are going to are going to run into Pakistan, right?
Because we can't bomb in Pakistan.
It was an allied country.
So I said, instead of having people all the way up and down the Afghan-Pakistan border
and we're grabbing them one at a time, let's let them into Pakistan, let them get
situated so that they feel like they're safe again.
They're going to make a mistake.
They always do.
And then we could hit the safe houses.
So instead of getting one at a time, we get 20 at a time or 50 at a time.
And they said, I mean, they just hadn't thought of it.
It was a crazy period, too.
You know, it was, you know, nobody was sleeping.
People are jetting around the world just trying to catch people.
It was it was rough.
And so it was funny, too.
You know, like everybody else in the agency, I sorry, I just took it.
Is that camera cool?
Is my camera OK?
OK, no, you're good.
Like everybody else on the building on 9 11.
I volunteered to go to Afghanistan.
Everybody volunteered, right?
And they wouldn't they wouldn't take me and I just couldn't understand it.
I said to buddy of mine, I don't understand this.
I volunteered three times.
They won't take me.
How long had you been in the CIA at that point?
Almost 12 years.
OK. And my Arabic was fluent, right?
So. I ran into a guy.
He was an old man, a contractor, legendary guy by the name of Billy Wa.
Billy Billy fought in the Second World War.
Korea and Vietnam and had 17 purple hearts.
If you imagine such a thing, there was one guy in North Carolina.
I had who had 18, but it's the most in American history, right?
The 18 Billy had 17.
So Billy and I had done some fun stuff in the Middle East before 9 11.
And about six weeks after 9 11, I ran into him in the hall and I said,
hey, Billy, I said, where you been?
And he looks around and he goes, I've been in Afghanistan.
I said, yeah, what are you doing in Afghanistan?
And he looks at me like I'm nuts.
And he says, I've been killing people.
What do you think I've been doing?
And I said, that's why they haven't sent me.
And he said, did you volunteer?
And I said, yeah, I said, my Arabic is fluent.
I figured they would need interrogators.
He goes, we're not interrogating anybody.
I was like, that's why they don't want me.
They're just killing people.
They're not capturing anybody. Wow.
So I got frustrated and I went into the deputy director's office.
And I said, again, he was a friend of mine.
And I said, man, I said, if you don't send me to Afghanistan right now,
I am going straight to Exxon with my Arabic and I'm not looking back.
A totally empty threat.
And he goes, just fucking relax.
He says, relax.
Can you go to Pakistan?
And I said, yes, when?
He said, tomorrow.
I said, yes, what do you want me to do there?
He said, I want you to be chief of counterterrorism ops.
I said, OK, so I called my then girlfriend.
She became my wife later and we can get into that later.
And I said, I got to go to Pakistan when tomorrow?
She said, OK, I'll meet you at your place.
I'll help you pack.
And the next day I went to Pakistan. Wow.
And I was there six or seven months.
And who one of the first things you did or one of the main things
that you accomplished when you were there was capturing Abu Zabeda?
Yeah, yeah.
Can you look at Zabeda?
Can you walk me through how that went down?
Yeah. Yeah, it's it's a story.
It became the defining event of not just my career, really,
it became the defining event of my life.
And I'm not overstating that.
So I get to Pakistan, January of 2002.
And my very first day, the station chief says,
I want you to come up with a standard operating procedure
for taking down an Al Qaeda safe house.
He said, we're just not doing it.
I said, sure.
So I went back to my office and I sat there with a with a legal pad.
And I was thinking, all right, so if I if I'm going to take down
an Al Qaeda safe house, how would I do that?
And I thought, well, I'd I'd want it to be dark, right?
And I wrote two hundred at the top of the page.
I mean, in Pakistan, as many people as they have there,
they just roll the sidewalks up at night.
It's it's like a ghost town, the whole country at night.
So I thought I'm going to need.
I'm going to need partners.
I mean, you got to invite the Pakistanis because it's their country.
You know, you have to I don't mean to sound crass,
but you have to allow them to believe that they're in charge,
you know, even if they're not.
That's a spy tactic, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Make it all make them think that it's all their idea.
And and 9-Eleven was an open criminal investigation.
So you have to invite the FBI as awful as that is.
But I mean, I would rather work with the Pakistanis than the FBI any day morons.
So. So I wrote, you know, teams, you had two Pakistanis, two CIA, two FBI.
And I would need a bunch of stuff.
So I need like battering rams and guns and ammo and night vision goggles
and bulletproof vests.
And I made this whole laundry list of stuff.
So I sent a cable to headquarters and I said,
can you give me $50,000 seed money?
And I'll start buying this stuff.
Boom, six hours later, I had $50,000.
Money, believe me, was no problem.
I mean, vast amounts of money.
We have a lot of time.
I can tell you some fun stories.
So I went online, galls.com.
It's a police supply house in Kentucky.
And I ordered everything I needed.
I ordered bulletproof vests and battering rams and guns and ammunition
and the night vision goggles and walkie talkies and a satellite dish.
And I ordered everything I spent the whole 50 grand.
So two weeks later, it all arrives and we set up our teams.
And I got a tip that there was this Al Qaeda safe house.
Here's the address.
So I called the Pakistani colonel that I was he was my normal contact.
And I said, Colonel Mohammed, let's let's hit this house tonight.
I've been telling him, look, you know, I'm waiting for this equipment to come.
And of course, we're going to leave it all here as a gift for you
and your brave men.
And, you know, you know what I'm talking about, you have to sort of talk them up.
So I called him and I said, OK, the stuff's in.
I got this tip. Let's hit this address two o'clock in the morning.
He's like, OK, so I get to FBI people, one of whom is totally awesome.
And we still stay in touch.
The other was an ongoing problem for all of us at the CIA.
CIA and the FBI hate each other, right?
And they have since the founding of the CIA, and we still hate each other.
So.
Oh, 200, we sneak up to the door of this house and we boom,
we bashed the door in with a with a battering ram.
And there are these two kids, one was 18 and one was 19.
They put their hands up and then they burst into tears, both of them.
One of them is crying.
I'm cuffing him and he's like, can I call my mother?
She's going to be so worried about me.
And I said to this buddy of mine, I said, this is Al-Qaeda.
This is what we've been so afraid of.
They're children.
So I was like, no, you're not going to fucking call your mother.
You're going to jail.
We took them to the Rawalpindi jail.
How did you know for sure they were Al-Qaeda?
Because I said so.
Because you said so.
You know, I'm being facetious, of course.
The rule that we came up with was if you're an Arab in Pakistan
with no passport and no plausible explanation for what you're doing there,
you're Al-Qaeda, right?
Arabs can't get visas to Pakistan unless they're Saudi, Kuwaiti,
Emirati and have lots of money to spend.
So if you're just some kid from some village in Tunisia,
you shouldn't be in Pakistan.
One of them went so far as to tell me, not not one of these two kids,
but a guy later on that he was there to study Arabic.
And I said, Arabic.
You know, of course, that they don't speak Arabic in this country.
And he just looks at me.
And a lot of these guys were pretty well trained by Al-Qaeda.
Like they they all had the same story.
I mean, like exactly to the word, the same story.
They were taught this in their training in the camps in Afghanistan
that if you're caught, tell the Americans that
you flew here to volunteer at an orphanage in Afghanistan
and you flew through Dubai.
And then when you got to Karachi, you got in a taxi
and you asked the taxi driver to take you to the Grand Mosque
to thank God for your safe arrival.
There is no Grand Mosque in Karachi.
The Grand Mosque is in Islamabad.
They don't know that.
And then you accidentally left your passport in the taxi.
So you lost your passport.
That's why you don't have it.
And so you're waiting for your embassy to give you a new passport.
And then when the Americans started bombing, you got scared.
So you had to I mean, like a hundred different guys told me exactly the same story.
And none of it, none of it added up.
So we started putting them at the Rawalpindi Jail.
And then after a while,
one of the Pakistanis came to me and said, listen, the jail's full.
We don't know what to do with these guys.
And we don't want them here in our country.
And he says, I know you don't want to send them back to their country
because they hadn't been interrogated.
We didn't know are they are they just, you know, kids who took up the fight
because they had nothing better to do?
Are they masterminds?
We caught bin Laden's computer guy.
We caught bin Laden's mechanic.
We got bin Laden's cook.
We got bin Laden's doctor.
So they've got information that we're going to want.
So I cabled headquarters and I said, the jail's full and the packs want them out.
So what do I do with them?
And I get this cable back saying, put them on a C12 and send them to Guantanamo.
And I wrote back and I said, Guantanamo, Cuba?
Like, why would I send them to Cuba?
And they said, this has been the subject of much discussion at headquarters.
We're going to hold them in Cuba for two or three weeks
until we can figure out which federal district to charge them in.
Because crimes were committed in the in the D.C.
area in the Eastern District of Virginia.
That's where the Pentagon's based and Dulles Airport.
In the Eastern District of Massachusetts,
because one of the planes took off from Boston and the Southern
and Eastern districts of New York.
So there are four federal districts we can charge them with terrorism in.
OK. And I said, that's a great idea.
Just hold them in Cuba for two or three weeks.
And then once we started sending them to Cuba.
Somebody on Dick Cheney staff said, you know what?
They have no rights in Cuba.
Because the Cubans have never signed the lease agreement like in protest.
So if they have no rights in Cuba,
that means we don't have to put them on trial.
And I was like,
well, but the Constitution says
that they have their right to face their accusers in a court of law.
Right.
Well, but they don't get the Constitution's protections.
Not Cuba.
Everybody gets the Constitution's protections.
If you're under the command and control of the United States
on territory controlled by the United States.
Right. I mean, that's I'm not a lawyer,
but the Constitution is very important to me.
And on my very first day at the CIA, with 300 other people,
I put my right hand in the air and I promise to protect and defend
the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic.
And I have a real hard time thinking that I was the only one in the room
that day who actually meant it.
So anyway, I had been there about six weeks.
And we had been doing these raids a couple of times a week.
And we're getting some good people.
We caught a couple of guys from Egyptian Islamic jihad.
We got a whole bunch of people from these Kashmiri terrorist groups.
In fact, one of the things that we found in a Kashmiri safe house,
we found a copy of the Al Qaeda training manual.
And it was the very first time that analytically,
we were able to prove cooperation between the Kashmiris and Al Qaeda first time.
And then, of course, the Kashmiris worked with Al Qaeda to attack those hotels
in the Jewish center in Mumbai a couple of well, a year or two later.
So anyway, these these raids were successful,
but we're only catching two, three, four at a time.
And so.
There was one day, you know, the weekend in Pakistan is Friday and Saturday.
And Saturday was like the only day of the week
that I I gave myself the luxury of sleeping till eight.
You have to work seven days a week.
We're working 16, 18 hour days.
I came home with enough money.
I bought a house. I had so much over time.
It was amazing.
So it's like six o'clock Saturday morning and the phone rings.
I'm staying in this little guest house, you know, because, well, the day I arrived,
they said, hey, we put you in the Marriott.
And I said, are you insane?
What do you think they're going to blow up?
They're going to blow up the Marriott, which they did and killed 156 people.
I said, I'm not staying in the Marriott.
They did it with a truck bomb.
So I stayed at this little Pakistani guest house.
It only had 14 rooms run by a Pakistani family.
So they wake me up six o'clock in the morning.
You got to get into the embassy immediately.
So I thought, oh, something terrible has happened.
So I get dressed.
I speed over to the embassy and everybody's there.
The station chief, the deputy, the FBI.
He's called a legat, the legal attaché, his deputy.
We had a representative there from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
And then me.
And the station chief says,
we heard from our friends across the river, which means NSA.
We heard from our friends across the river
that that Abu Zubaydah is somewhere in the country.
We have to catch him.
Everybody turns and looks at me.
And I'll tell you the honest to God's truth.
I'm thinking to myself, Abu Zubaydah, that name sounds vaguely familiar to me.
Like I just couldn't place him, right?
And then I realized, oh, oh, oh, the number three in Al Qaeda,
which turned out to be wrong.
But I mean, yeah, I mean, we thought he was the number three in Al Qaeda.
What was he really?
He had never actually joined Al Qaeda.
He he founded Al Qaeda's two training camps in southern Afghanistan.
He founded the House of Martyrs, Safe House in Peshawar, Pakistan.
He was Al Qaeda's logistics guy.
So if you needed a false passport,
you needed a plane ticket, a boat ticket, you needed weapons,
you needed money transferred.
He was the guy that did all that.
But he had never actually joined Al Qaeda.
He never pledged fealty to Osama bin Laden.
So they said he's somewhere in Pakistan.
We have to catch him.
Everybody turns and looks at me and I go, you guys.
I said, this this country's the size of Texas.
It's got 150 million people in it.
What do you mean he's somewhere in Pakistan?
You got to catch him.
Like, how do you do that?
Well, that's what you're here for.
I said, all right, I'll think of something.
I thought of a couple of really bad ideas.
You know, I was flailing around.
So I came up with this one idea.
We had two young technical officers.
Who were on loan from headquarters.
And I said, we have a we have a cell phone number.
Can we find him by the cell phone number?
And they said, we could try.
So they built this device from scratch, from just crap,
from Radio Shack, you know what I mean?
Batteries and wires and little circuit boards.
I don't know how they did it.
And so every time he would turn his phone on, it would ping
and it would give us a direction, right?
North, northeast.
And we'd be like, oh my God, and we run out to the car
and then it goes off.
So that's not going to work.
And I said one day in a staff meeting, I said, you know,
when I was in college, I was a toll collector
on the Pennsylvania Turnpike, right?
So I know how the machines work and, you know,
you get the ticket and you take it to the next one
and you pay the ticket, pay the toll.
And I said, he keeps moving back and forth between Lahore
and Faisalabad and it's connected by a toll road.
So I said, let's put all CIA people in the toll booths.
And when he comes, we grab him.
They were like, that's a terrible idea.
They're 55,000 people every day that take that toll road.
Right. These are two major cities.
Lahore has 12 million people and Faisalabad has 7 million people.
You can't just put CIA people in the booths and then, you know,
grab him in the car.
Besides, they're going to be armed with AK-47s and who knows?
Grenades and whatever.
Right. So that's not going to work.
So finally, I went to the chief and I was like,
I just can't do this on my own.
I need a targeting analyst.
Now, a targeting analyst is vastly different from an analyst.
An analyst, which is what I was for the first seven and a half years there.
You think the big thoughts, you write these papers,
you send them to the president.
The president will make a comment in the margin, send it back to you.
Then you answer that question.
Targeting analysts pour through data.
Mostly metadata.
And their job is specifically to find somebody,
to physically find the location of someone so that you can kill him or capture him.
Well, I had a friend who was one of the top targeting analysts at the CIA.
We were both in the Counterterrorism Center together.
And when I was at headquarters, we would go for a walk at lunch together every day
and just talk about, you know, this is what they want you to do.
And talk about operations and ideas and, you know, stuff that you want to do.
So I called him and I said,
can you get on a plane and come to Pakistan as quickly as possible?
And he said, yeah.
He said, I'll be there in 24 hours.
So I picked him up at the airport four o'clock in the morning.
We went straight to the office and I said, here's the deal.
We think we found Abu Zubeda.
He's like, you've got to be kidding me.
