Where did this word spook originate when referring to a CIA agent or an FBI agent?
How are they called?
Why are they called spooks?
The closest thing I've been able to come up with is the reference to ghost.
Yeah.
Right?
They're not there.
Yeah.
Little Houdini action.
That makes sense.
Disappear when they can.
I think that's right.
But what about the glow-in-the-dark thing?
I still don't know where that is.
That one.
That one is lost on me.
Yeah.
Every time I see those comments saying that we glow, I kind of want to get pissed, but
then I don't know what I'm pissed at, so then I'm like, yeah, I don't really know what
this means.
Steve, you want to cut the lights and see if he glows?
You might too, Jim.
I don't know.
I'll speak to you.
Jerry's out on you.
Oh.
Ooh.
There's a little light sneaking in.
There's a little light sneaking in.
We got the back light, so.
He's good.
Yeah.
Yeah, they're good.
No glow.
Check this out.
They don't glow.
It's a good thing for longevity.
Yeah, I think so, man.
Oh, man.
It's a good thing for life.
It's a good thing for life.
Well, thank you guys for coming back for round two.
Oh, hell yeah.
Spookfest 2023.
This is like Christmas morning.
This is like Christmas morning.
CIA vs. the FBI.
We've been waiting for a long time to do this.
We had a great weekend.
And we're here.
This has been a killer weekend, man, coming down here and getting prepped for the podcast.
Are we allowed to talk about all of it?
Yeah.
I think it's on.
Yeah.
I'm allowed to talk about it.
I don't know about you.
I can't speak for these guys.
It's good.
I didn't come up with strippers in the back.
Savage.
We wake up.
I love that I get a text from your wife like, Law, Danny was out till 6.30 once you guys
get back.
And I'm like, 3.30.
I need this wife.
I need Lexi.
This is great.
She's my secret weapon.
Yes.
I dropped you guys off at like 3.30 at your house.
And then my buddy Shane came back and he's like, bro, the clubs don't close till 6.30.
One more lap dance for the boys.
I just wish I could get a video of Jimmy D getting a lot, getting strippers just right
up in there.
It was great.
It's a sight to behold.
Definitely got a sore neck.
Yeah.
Who was your favorite girl?
I think Andy and I were pretty much falling in love consistently, which is each girl that
walked out.
But I did like that, the Jules, Jules.
She called herself Bubbles.
Yeah, Bubbles.
But we called her Jules.
Yeah.
We liked it because it was Jules.
Is that karma with a C?
That might be karma with a C.
That was the line of the weekend.
That was definitely the line of the weekend.
Andy is sitting there and he pulls the stripper close.
He's like, I'm sorry.
I just got to ask, what's up with the AK and the karma tattoo?
She has the two tattoos on her belly.
That's a brave girl in general.
What'd she say?
Definitely.
She was like, well, I like AKs and I believe in karma.
And he goes, fair enough.
And then she walks away and he goes, and that's why she's a stripper.
A classic line, one that will go down in history.
The thing that was the most disappointing to me, though, was that we're in a strip club.
Great strip clubs.
You picked great places for us.
But the people that came up to us the most, I'm pretty sure were men because they recognized
us from TV and from podcasts.
So here we are in a strip club surrounded by women who get paid to show you attention
in the place where we get the most attention is from other men in the strip club.
Trying to give us things, which we didn't want from them.
So it was perfect.
You got hit in the humidor the other day in the cigar shop.
That was wild.
So Julie and I are on our way, pick them up at the airport, Tampa airport, Andy's coming
in later.
We go to Danny.
We're going to go to Danny's house.
We're going to bring some cigars and maybe a little bit of wine and the like.
So we stop in here.
We're in the humidor, small humidor, and then comes a guy and he's like, wait a minute,
I know you from Danny Jones, from concrete.
So I'm like, thank you.
He said that?
Yeah, he said that.
So I'm like, thank you so much, sir.
Hopefully you can get some teeth here in the future.
My fan base is strong.
And at that point, I say, hey, I'd like to, no, no, your listeners do have teeth.
But this man recognized me from your podcast.
So really my fans want it.
It's a perfect scenario.
Fair enough.
Right.
So now I say, hey, this is Julian Dorey.
He goes, yeah, I know you too, but doesn't say too much until he walks out and he goes,
yeah, yours is pretty good too.
As he staggers out with his marijuana cigar.
So it was a class.
Andy's getting recognized by like executive chefs.
Jim's like, we've really got to work on our class here.
God damn it.
Everybody's coming out, giving Andy free desserts.
Andy's trying to introduce like Jim, Julian, and me to everybody like, oh yeah, that's
cool.
Anyways, Andy.
Nice to see you too, sit back down.
Thank you, sir.
Oh God.
But no, it was a hell of a job hosting us, man.
Yeah, man.
I mean, it's impossible to say no to this invite.
Amazing.
Well done.
Danny Jones, host of the year.
Next year's in Hoboken.
Yes, sir.
Round three.
Studios looking precious.
Julian.
Brand new studio.
By the way, a huge shout out to you on the side for helping me build some of that.
And Stephen back there, figuring out the lighting situation, I'm so excited to unveil
that in a few weeks.
It's going to be good.
We came in, we came in and did some work, and people are going to be psyched to see
that new studio, bro.
It looks really good.
Yeah, I'm trying to get you to move the family up to New York.
Never.
It's never going to happen, bro.
It's like the hardest sell for a family in Florida.
That's the last place I'd ever go, to be honest.
You're going to lose into the streets here.
So I'm doing a TV show, right?
Yeah.
The last show that we're doing has a filming segment in New York.
So whenever you're doing a TV show, you have to abide by the laws of the state of California
and you also have to abide by the laws of the state that you're in.
So it's actually really restrictive.
How many hours you work, what you do, who you talk to, whatever else.
So New York state actually had a mandatory sexual harassment training video that we all
had to complete and we all had to pass in order to do our five day shoot in New York
City or in New York state.
So it was like going right back to corporate America again, man.
It was a YouTube video.
It was like 65 minutes long.
Anybody can find it.
Section New York state sexual harassment training, 18 questions, just like you and I used to
do at the agency all the time.
Absolutely.
Check the box.
Yeah, true or false.
ABC or D, which of the following denotes sexual harassment.
And it was insane to me to see how New York defines things like harassment, inappropriate
behavior, et cetera, et cetera.
Because it's like what we used to think was flirting is now illegal in the state of New
York.
It's amazing.
Yeah, it's fun.
Yeah.
So I don't even like-
Thank you, Cuomo.
Did you watch it on three times speed?
Ah, see, I'm not quite smart enough to do that yet.
I had my little questionnaire sheets finish this shit.
I had two days to finish it.
I was like, this sucks.
Did we talk about on the last episode, did we talk about your big TV show that you've
been doing?
No.
I don't think we talked about it.
I don't think it was a big TV show.
It was an announcement.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, now it's History Channel's largest new show in the last five years.
Congratulations on that.
That is awesome.
And you do a great job on it, bro.
Thanks, man.
It's amazing.
And so for the people that don't know out there, I know a lot of people are very familiar
with Skimwalker Ranch, but you are doing beyond Skimwalker Ranch, you're about to film
season two, which is great, but what'd you find?
Some weird shit, man.
You know what's wild is that it's not the 98% of stuff that you see out there that's
weird but explainable.
And that's the thing that people don't understand.
All the people out there who naysay UFOs and naysay aliens and all the skeptics out there,
they all point to all the stuff that we know.
Well, yeah, no shit.
We already know it.
That's not where the fascination and discovery lies.
And knowing what you know, there's nothing interesting there.
It's in finding the 2% that you don't know.
What is that about?
And there were multiple times on that show.
I mean, we're tracking data.
So we're in a ranch in Colorado, for example.
And we're sitting here and it's nighttime.
We're seeing lights in the sky.
We're seeing strange readings in terms of radiation levels and energy ratings.
And we're tracking flight trackers.
We're tracking satellites in the sky.
We're tracking as much as we can track and ruling out a lot of what we see, but only
a lot of what we see, not all of what we see.
So what is the remaining 2% to 5% of strange stuff in the sky?
Now, I'm not saying it's all aliens, but what I am saying is it's something we don't
know.
Does that mean it's a foreign adversary?
Is that the light reflecting off of the sun past the horizon, reflecting off the underbelly
of a spy satellite?
That's not something we're going to have in our satellite tracking software.
Yeah.
Is it a special project?
Can you see my shirt?
Great shirt.
How's the camera looking on my shirt?
Damn it.
Read it off.
You've got to fix it.
That's who's responsible for skin walker ranch.
Yes.
DARPA.
DARPA.
Nothing to see here.
Nothing to see here.
Not to be mistaken.
So you think it could also be some of our own, obviously, like weapons testing.
Absolutely.
One of the things we're saying is that there's a bunch of these, like you made it sound like
a lot of these testing bases that we've never heard of, not just like the ones that are
on Wikipedia and stuff.
Oh, yeah.
There's so much more than what's already publicly known.
If you think about it, every time something becomes publicly known, then it basically
gets burned.
You have to find a new site to do it in.
Like Area 51, for example, everybody talks about Area 51.
I'm more interested in Area 52 and Area 50 that nobody talks about.
Exactly.
You know what the actual facility looks like?
There's multiple areas.
They're all just separately fenced off.
There's like 25 different investigative or experimentative areas, experimental areas,
all in the same compound.
But people only talk about Area 51.
And when they talk about Area 51, they think they're referencing a specific area, not realizing
that their specific area is a huge test range.
Now, when you guys did that show, did you guys mainly focus on skin walker ranch?
Did you guys go anywhere else?
We didn't focus at all on skin walker ranch.
That's why it's called beyond skin walker ranch.
There you go.
Dumbass.
Where else did you go?
What am I supposed to know?
I don't know jack shit about TV.
I don't blame you, man.
No, we went.
So essentially what we tried to do, so skin walker ranch, if you don't know, is a strange
place.
It's this ranch in Utah.
It's got a long history of connection between high strangeness, which is strange phenomenon.
Starting from alien sightings to space, craft sightings to big foot sightings, orb sightings,
all sorts of strange stuff in one geographical area.
Our goal was to basically see if there are other geographical areas in the continental
United States that have multiple points of data overlap with skin walker ranch.
Because what the Intel people will tell you is that one point of corroboration is worthless.
You need multiple compounding points of corroboration.
If something has feathers and quacks and has a bill, then it might be a duck.
If it just quacks, it could be anything.
Jim, did you guys, I've never really asked this because everyone always just thinks
about some of the agencies when we talk about it.
Yes, I did have one point.
We did.
Sorry.
Yeah, I was jumping.
It was a long time ago.
But at the FBI, we hear some of the stories about how they had every iteration of Hitler,
for example, around the office and what he could look like as Hoover and others there
didn't think he lived.
So you look at some of these like big foot type ideas that you guys are at least paying
attention to.
Did you guys have any type of division or focus on potential crafts that are not of this earth?
Well, listen, I don't have any independent knowledge of that.
However, it'd be hard to believe that it doesn't exist, that it does not exist.
I think the closest that we came to it, at least understanding as students at Quantico,
was this behavioral science unit that was extremely unique, really had a specific mission.
It didn't really look anything like they make it out to look on TV with criminal minds and
that they're totally involved in every investigation that comes down the pipe from law enforcement
across the country, across the world.
But I always had the sense that it had to exist.
And there were individuals that I got to know along the way whose career paths were different
than my career path, very different.
And most of the time, well, most of the time, if we're together and we have an opportunity
to work together, we're going to talk about things, we're going to actually reveal specific
items of factual nature and talk about it to get help, right?
I want to be able to say, guys, put eyes on this.
What do you think?
And those guys and girls, none of that, that didn't happen.
They take, right?
They take.
Even sensitive stuff.
Yes.
It's kind of like a professional courtesy.
When you all have similar classification or similar security clearances, you kind of,
you share.
You share because you all have access to need to know information.
And guess what?
In this case, you need to know the thing I'm talking about to give me some insight.
But there are people who just take.
Just take.
There's no, and you get it.
So after a while, you start to build your own kind of conclusion, I think pretty accurately
and you say, okay, I'm not going to push that person, but I will provide information.
And it's not always just people who are doing what we call special projects, right?
DARPA, for example.
You always have to run all of the strange findings you find through an index of special
projects.
Like could this be a special project?
Could this be like a subdivision of a subdivision of a private military contractor that's running
something new on our behalf through a special project, highly classified, highly compartmentalized
program?
But you're also separated out basically like in your own cells, like on a need to know
basis with things.
So it's not like you're read in, for example, as a spy on, oh, here's every single thing
we're working on.
It's nothing close to that, no?
No.
Yeah, exactly.
Because your need to know is literally operation to operation.
So when we come across people who are takers or we come across these people who are in
positions that are so sensitive that they don't share, that doesn't always mean that
they're doing cool shit.
Sometimes that means they're the ones spying on us, right?
Because all of your internal counterintelligence, like the FBI department in charge of looking
for FBI moles, the CIA department in charge of looking for CIA moles, those are people
who they're not going to share.
And they're not wearing name tags all the time.
Yeah, definitely not.
What always cemented it for me and kind of got me to the point where I started to believe
that this unit or whatever it was existed was when we would get actual asks from local
county state departments about a certain situation.
So they would come upon something, a factual piece, and they would send it to me if I was
in Newark or I was in New Jersey or wherever we were.
And then we would forward it to behavioral science.
And it was pretty amazing conclusions that behavioral science would make based on a very
simple patrolman, and I'm saying it's simple, but based on a simple set of facts that a
patrolman might come across.
And next thing you know, you're really down a rabbit hole, but it's a very productive
rabbit hole.
What comes back is definitely an ask from the Bureau where you would really expect it
to be, hey, here's a conclusion.
We looked at that and we got to this point and here to help you out.
More asks would come back.
Now you're in the middle of a situation where you're trying to protect that local officer,
but at the same time, you need to get the information, right?
So that's when I always, hey, what's going on?
What's going on that we're getting on this simple little task?
We're getting more asks.
The thing that's really interesting about it all is that in order for an operation to
be stood up, it has to be funded.
It's not like the TV shows where like, you know, Jim takes an interest in something
so then he can run and I take an interest in something and we're like given like a
thumbs up to run with it.
It doesn't work that way.
You have to have funding approved.
Doesn't matter your level of interest before you go.
So if you're talking about FBI, talking about CIA, you're talking about groups that have
a vested interest in national security.
That is the mission.
So when funding is reviewed, the question that the funding source is asking itself is,
is this operation going to contribute positively to national security?
Think about how many times funding is denied.
I promise you right now, you have no idea how often funding is denied.
We know it well because you sit around all day long reading about denied funding operations.
So when funding is actually approved, that means that there's such a preponderance of
evidence that it's a national security concern that the funding is approved.
So when you hear like when a patrolman's correspondence, a report of something that
he saw in Arkansas, New Mexico, whatever, when that actually makes it to FBI and then
money is awarded for FBI to look into it, that's significant, right?
That's not just some small thing.
Absolutely, man.
That's a great point and you're right because we actually have to sit in front of boards
every quarter, even if we have a funded operation.
We have to come back and justify, first off, with results, because everybody has great
intentions, you've got to have results.
Once you get those results and you're moving it forward, you have to prove your case, your
need over and over and over again.
And what I would see is a simple observation that there's never a need to continue to provide
factual information or results in order to continue that particular plot.
Who's doing that?
It's not me.
I was never involved in doing those things, even though I was at a level where I could
have been, there's others that are doing those things.
This is what that whole grush thing is about, right?
He was in charge of finding missing money.
There was like millions of dollars that were missing, apparently, that went to black programs,
right?
What did you guys think of that whole thing?
Black programs are a real thing.
I mean, there's a whole black budget.
It's a real thing and it's an important thing because if you know what the budget is that's
being spent, you can start to ascertain or start to deduce what it might be being spent
on.
So a black budget is an important thing, even to protect from accountants at CIA understanding
what CIA is doing.
They don't have a need to know.
So why should they know whether we're spending $1 trillion or $12 trillion, right?
Whatever it might be.
So black budgets are an important thing.
When it comes to people who are whistleblowing in general, I find that it basically breaks
into two camps.
You've got genuine whistleblowers who know something is going on that shouldn't be and
they've tried to go through the proper channels and the proper channels either haven't worked
or they're working too slow.
So they come out publicly and blow the whistle.
Then you have other people who are just not right, just not mentally right in the head
and they've been in something so long or they're in something so deep they've lost the larger
perspective.
They've lost the mission, essentially, and then they come out and they whistleblow.
From what I've heard, Grush is more of the true type of whistleblower, salt stuff and
then had people on the inside that just weren't working fast enough or he wasn't being taken
seriously so he came out and spoke, but there are plenty of other examples of whistleblowers
who do the opposite.
Danny, what did Sarfati say about Grush again?
What was his take on that?
He's a fucking idiot.
No, I get a little skeptical and I think a lot of people out there do.
When you see things pile on almost in unison, in a way, from so many governments, we just
saw that video in Mexico.
I don't know if we can put that in the corner of the screen, Steven, or if that's copyrighted.
The aliens they just found in Mexico, like I said, that should have been on the internet
for a long time.
Right, but now they're putting this whole dog and pony show on to make sure fucking everybody
sees it.
I'll say, when you listen to Grush talk at Congress, not that this really counts for
anything, but he comes across as pretty credible, but there's also so many arguments about what
these things are.
Are they crafts from another planet?
Are they future humans?
You get the religious sect that wonders if they're like demons.
Some of it sounds crazy, but if we don't know what it is, we don't know what it is.
When you hear him going through it-
I'm looking at them in the boxes.
When he says stuff about we have, I may get this wording a little wrong, but he's like,
we have possession of biological entities.
Biologicals.
Very odd.
Not of this planet or something like that.
Is it this?
Is that what he's referring to?
Is it the little green man that James Fox is talking about in so many of his sightings?
Is it something else?
I don't know.
Yeah, and it's important because biologics, what else is biological?
Plants, right?
True.
Samples.
True.
There's all sorts of things.
Germs, viruses, what is it, and taking things out of context, especially when it comes to
the way government people speak versus the way that the lay civilian speaks, we speak
in completely different terms.
Government people work really hard to use terminology that they can't be held accountable
to in the future.
So it's over-generalized and under-committed.
Yes.
Meanwhile, civilians are coming out and they want to be hyper-specific about everything.
So that's why you hear terms like, we have biological proof or evidence that is not of
this planet or not of this known planet.
Stephen, can you pull up the photo of David Grush during his testimony in front of Congress?
But if you were to play hypothetical roulette and say, are these things really aliens or
is it DARPA?
What would your bet be?
DARPA.
Wild guess.
Oh, wow, that was fast.
Yeah, I don't think there's any doubt in my mind either.
It's not a wild guess.
I've actually spent over a year now traveling and researching this stuff.
It was a guess a year ago.
Now I've actually seen dad and I'm like, the 2% that I can't explain, it still fits terrestrial
models.
And you've also been public now, at least on podcasts and stuff, talking with Danny a
couple years back, two or three years back, that you do think we are not alone in the
universe.
Absolutely.
Right?
So it's not like you're just like, oh, fuck all this stuff.
We're the only things here.
We just don't think the evidence we're seeing for maybe some of the specific stuff they're
dropping is compelling enough.
And the things that you've seen up close, it seems to be, I mean, you and I were talking
off air, but it seems like you're thinking Chinese spy balloons and DARPA.
Yeah, I mean, and this is just, I would love to hear Jim's take on this, but the way I
see it is you have to start by ruling out what's known.
If you can't rule out what's known, you can't leap that the solution is the unknown.
It's not a judicious way of analyzing a problem.
Yeah, slippery slope right there.
I mean, I think that makes a ton of sense.
And the true, what I like about this guy, this is a true American patriot whistleblower.
Right?
So he is coming out to make some statements that definitely are at his, he's got some
clear danger that he takes on, some clear risk doing this, right?
So my thought on it is, and I think we talked about this on the last pot, it's the whole
conspiracy theory generation, what's not known, the gap needs to be filled, right?
So, but this guy knows he's been there.
He's been in the middle of, right?
He's not your traditional whistleblower.
I mean, the bureau has had issues across the board and we've seen it every day with whistleblowers
and what's going on.
Never been addressed and it never will be addressed.
Look at the rows behind him.
That James Clapper.
Look at Sean Ryan there.
So you got Sean Ryan there.
No Gibson on the right.
I think that's Clapper.
Why is James Clapper right behind him?
And then George Knapp, right?
And then this is Jeremy Corbell.
Oh, yes.
He's like the director of Neophotox.
So it's really interesting to me because you have like this mixed bag of credibility
behind him, but the other thing is he had to take the steps himself to come out and
say something.
Yes.
Absolutely.
And that's a huge, that's a huge piece for a guy, especially a guy who's made a career
in military.
Exactly.
Your traditional army or Air Force officer, military guy.
Yes, sir.
You know, moving forward, salute, move on.
This guy, this is impressive to me.
I'd love to meet this guy, but they did love to be one of the soldiers that found that
in 1945.
Like, what the fuck were they doing here?
Bro, he said they went back to the thirties in Italy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I think they, maybe I'm remembering this wrong, correct me in the comments if I am, but it
was allegedly from like 1933 or something, Mussolini had it.
And then when the allies like took Italy in 44 or 45, they took possession of it, I think.
Interesting.
Or they knew about it through that.
But I want to know, Jeremy, an alien scientist told me that there was some fishy stuff about
James Clapper.
And if James Clapper was there, then that's like a red flag that this is all some sort
of cover up.
Or this is all some sort of limited hangout.
Baldi on the left there, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can't speak to that.
I don't know.
I don't either.
What I would say, what I think is really relevant, I mean, I'm not the kind of person who likes
to pull summaries out of the details.
I like to look at the strategic view and then let the details fill in the rest.
And here's what we know.
What we know is that Congress has taken an interest in unknown aerial phenomenon.
What we know is that within weeks of the Chinese spy balloon being an international incident,
three more UFOs were spotted over the United States.
In my book, ruling out what's known versus unknown, we saw a spy balloon.
It made the headlines.
What does the government start looking for after that?
More spy balloons.
But if we call them a spy balloon, we just learned it's going to cause an international
incident.
If we're calling them spy balloons to the American people, we're going to call them
UFOs.
Easier.
Remember, the government's job is to keep the American people passive, calm, content.
When you start saying that they're spy balloons over missile bases in the United States, your
average American does not stay passive and content.
They start paying attention.
And that's the thing that is so true about our current government.
The government's job is to keep us willfully ignorant.
The information can be there, but we want you to voluntarily choose ignorance instead.
If you have to choose between the headlines or Netflix, please choose Netflix.
If you have to pick between what you're going to watch on YouTube, I hope it's girls and
bikinis on trampolines and not intelligent podcast conversation.
So damn true, man.
So spot on.
From a CIS spy and FBI special agent in charge perspective, for you when you were doing your
jobs, which would you prefer?
Would you prefer?
Hager and American people.
Absolutely.
Every day, lest they know the easier our job is.
Saying the quiet part out loud there.
Get out of our hair, you know?
What you want and when you're a government professional, when you're in charge of doing
anything that has to do with making decisions to keep the American people safe, the last
thing you want is for every American person to have a say when think about every parent
out there.
Do parents let their kids vote on what they're going to have for dinner?
No.
Right.
But you're saying that, that the United States is our, is our parents and we're their children.
That's not what I'm saying.
That's how the structure is built.
What do we call the founding fathers?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Fair.
Boy taken.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms.
With only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee, you get energy without the jitters
or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose, cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot
chocolate like flavor, lion's mane to support focus, cordyceps to help support physical
performance and both chaga and reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their time to
find all the perfect ingredients to develop a product that helps you feel better every
single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments as they believe the country
is in a mental health epidemic and sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals with depression,
PTSD, anxiety and other mental health experiences.
So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below mudwater.com forward slash Danny
and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
It's linked below now back to the show.
Not only is it what it is, it's what we fucking want.
And for all the bitches out there right now crying or pissing up a storm because they're
hearing us cut.
No, I want to be treated like an equal and I want to have to say, no, you don't, you
don't.
You want to be able to get on your porn hub and whack off when you want to and be done
with your day and go to sleep willfully ignorant about all the crazy shit out there trying
to kill you because it's easier.
It's easier.
It's such a more peaceful.
It's such a conundrum because they want us to be ignorant, but then why even let us vote?
Why even have elections then?
So the whole voting thing is interesting, right?
The whole voting thing is interesting because if we just review the history of the United
States, the United States was founded on what?
White land owning men.
That means you had to be white and you had to own land and you had to be a man, right?
But when we talk about our founding and when we bitch about it and when social justice
or whatever else starts coming through, we kind of take it out of order.
First we bitch about the fact that you have to be a man.
Well, women should be able to have equal property rights too.
And then we bitch about the race.
Well, you shouldn't have to just be white.
The last thing we talk about is the land owning part.
Oh, you're saying we're okay.
We're backwards.
The reason that you had to be a land owning individual of any color was because then
you're invested in the success of the country.
Oh, that's not what I thought you were going to say.
Okay.
Now what we have is people complaining all the time that everybody's racially charged
and sexually charged and there's all these biases that separate us instead of realizing,
no, no, no, no, no, right?
The people who were originally supposed to vote on the direction of the country were
people who are vested in the success economically of the country.
Now, any 18 year old can vote.
Even if they don't like the United States, they still have a vote.
An equal vote to the land owning, hyper invested, highly patriotic American citizen, right?
That's what's happened.
And part of that mutation happened through our growth and our evolution through civil
rights and through women's rights and everything else, but it also happened during Vietnam.
Prior to Vietnam, you had to be 21 to vote.
You had to be 21 to vote, you had to be 21 to drink, yes.
But then in Vietnam, the draft came and the draft was how old?
18.
Yeah.
If you can die for your country, you should be able to.
Vote and get a drink.
So they changed the laws in multiple states so that people could vote younger and drink
younger during the period of the draft.
And then when the draft ended, some states went back and some laws did not.
And that's how we made it so that 18 year olds now who are cognitively, biologically
not of sound mind, right?
Your cognitive brain has not matured by the time you're 18, but you have a vote in what
the direction of the country is.
Yeah.
And you are conditioned for whoever people are listening to that.
In your family.
What's in your algorithm?
Yep.
Yeah.
And what's in your algorithm?
Yep.
I'm probably going to get a letter from the superintendent at West Point, but if you are
on a military post and you're 18, guess what?
You can have a drink there.
Now they don't encourage it, but okay, all you cadets up there that are 21 and under,
you're welcome.
And you owe me one.
But yeah, that's still the way.
It's still the way.
So, you know, my point is just what Andy said, you're conditioned as an 18 year old.
First off, you have the right and are encouraged to vote.
Secondly, you really don't have any clue as to why you're voting.
Yep.
No context.
Some do.
So, if they're going so out of their way, and I'm not just speaking about the U.S. here,
I'm speaking about other governments as well.
If they're going so far out of their way to, I don't know, what would you call it, push
the UFO agenda or whatever, is that a part of the whole like keep everyone fat, dumb
and happy?
Like, is that a piece of it?
Like, is that a distraction?
It's a nice distraction.
Right?
Yeah.
So, follow the correlation, follow the correlation between liberal politics and the UFO narrative.
They go very close to each other, right?
The Latin American countries that are the most vested in the UFO problem are also the
most leftist countries.
What about in this country?
How so?
What about in this country?
I wouldn't have thought that.
Like, I feel like it's not.
Right now, we have a very liberal government, and that's become a very hot button topic.
And for many, many years, UFOs wasn't a topic at all.
And then we started having more and more divide, more and more left and right extremist points
of view in our politics, and now at our most divisive points, we have UFO becomes a mainstream
topic.
Got it.
Right?
Now, why?
I don't know why.
All I'm saying is, if you follow the data, you can see the correlation between Chile,
between Mexico, between Brazil, the United States now, right?
Even in Europe, the same way, right?
France.
The countries that care the most about these topics tend to also be more left-leaning.
One of the things that I wonder is, it's because left-leaning governments are trying to appease
the masses.
The masses are interested in what other life is in the universe.
So?
They are now.
Yeah.
They were before.
They always were.
This goes to what you were saying last night at dinner when you almost ripped Julian's head
off.
That was hilarious.
That was awesome.
What was the point you were making?
You were talking about the difference between Trump and Obama and how they communicated
the masses.
Yeah.
So, and this is, again, this is just, I'm glad that your head is still intact.
They were ripping my head.
I was loving it.
It was fucking great.
It was incredible.
I was like, where are the cameras and the mics?
I know.
So, it goes back to our conversation.
It goes back to the topic about government is supposed to be a parent, right?
If all government, all democracies, authoritative governments, dictatorships, they're all the
parent-child relationship.
It's just a different kind of parent.
Like your dictator is your abusive parent.
Yes.
Right?
Your, your toxically masculine parent.
And then you've got some like liberal democracies that are like the touchy-feely hippie mom.
But it's still parent-child.
Let me cultivate you.
Let me raise you.
Let me tell you what's right.
Let me tell you what's wrong.
Let me punish you if you step out of bounds.
It's all for your best interest.
It hurts me more than it hurts you.
That's the, that's the fucking relationship, man.
Now during the Obama years, Obama successfully passed this narrative to the American people
that the government was trying to do the right thing.
We're going to, we're going to contribute to the global civilization.
We're going to be global citizens.
We're going to try and help our peers and we're going to invest in human aid or, or, or humanitarian
aid and all this other stuff all over the world.
He's signing executive orders and using covert action to kill more people than any other
president ever in history, right?
Killing terrorist leaders, killing terrorist cells, killing, killing Islamist extremists
to try to keep America safe.
Because even in Obama's eyes, priority number one was not global civilization.
It was the United States, but he kept a barrier between the two.
That's like when mom and dad shut the door to have an argument in the bedroom while you
guys are watching Netflix.
That was the Obama administration.
That was largely like the predominant political view of how career politicians manage the
White House.
Yep.
And then you were saying Trump is the-
Trump came in-
Has pulled the curtain back.
Correct.
It's the Wizard of Oz moment, right?
Yeah, man.
He's like, let's open the curtain and look at the fucking wizard.
It's a short angry guy that has like dials and whatever else, right?
And Trump did it because Trump's a businessman and he understands that the more people see
what you do, the more they're divided and when people divide in the terms of business,
it's a good thing because you want to subdivide your audience because then that makes people
super faithful and super resistant.
And what's Trump's famous marketing quote?
All press.
He's good press.
Good press.
Yep.
Very bad.
So he ran the White House like you run a business, not like Trump runs a business, like every
marketer, every CEO, every successful business person everywhere runs a business the way Trump
tried to run the United States.
And was it the Trump show all the time?
Of course it was the Trump show all the time because his brand, his business is tied to
the name, the term Trump, right?
He wants to drive that divide.
Now the American people are lost in the middle because they went from having mom and dad
argue in the kitchen or in the bedroom with the door shut.
So now mom and dad are arguing in the kitchen at dinner and the kids are like, oh, I think
mom's crazy and dad's right.
Right.
Yeah.
Wow.
But there's also the concept of like when you turn over power now.
So you go from W to Obama, they're politically extremely different, but there's an understanding
that people who sat in that seat don't, they know and the people who have it, they don't.
So there could be like a guy like Obama going on the campaign saying, we're going to end
all these wars, hope change, whatever.
Then he gets in there and W goes, hey, have a seat there, fella.
I'm going to tell you something about a little covert action, some cool shit right here.
You're going to love it.
And then he goes, oh, wait, so I can use these drones and that can be a little bit more
deniable.
Maybe people don't see some boots on the ground and Obama goes, I kill two birds once
don't politically.
Except that you're underestimating the fact that we're talking about career politicians,
which going back to our founding fathers was never supposed to exist.
Ever.
Yeah.
So career politicians mean that Obama as a senator knows about the process of covert
action.
The senator knows how the president has special authorities over the executive branch.
Career politicians know that from their, their junior freshman year, right?
Sure, sure, sure.
They get that.
So by the time they become president, they already know they don't know.
But you got someone like Trump on the other hand, who Trump's smart enough to know how
the office of the president works for the most part.
But then when he gets the option, do we kill people through covert action or do we kill
people overtly and like let CNN and everybody else cover it?
Well, hell yeah, we're going to do it that way.
That's why you see all the brinksmanship stuff that Trump does.
He starts an open trade war with China.
He's like, there is active, active inbound aircraft going towards Iran and the whole
world is watching and Trump sitting there like, I'm going to let it go.
I'm going to let it go.
I'm going to make a phone call.
We're going to call him.
It's mainstream control.
You make a great point on the active trade war with China, right?
So there was a point that I was exposed to a piece where he actually had named, it never
got off the ground, but he had named a czar against China's trade and he's a businessman,
a big time New Jersey businessman.
Not a czar.
No, it was another guy, high school buddy of mine, who you'd all know.
But bottom line is that was in the process.
That's what he was doing.
He wanted that out there.
He wanted a face with this particular view to go out and say, yep, we're going to fuck
you over every chance we get and we're coming at you as opposed to what's going on today
where I don't want to get in China's way.
I don't want to do, you know, that's what we got going on or do we?
Yeah, or exactly right.
Or do we?
You know, so it's kind of a, I love the point about, I love the wizard analogy.
I think we all get that.
We could see it.
You know, we could see the two completely different views and where it's at.
Beautiful.
You know, beautiful.
I mean, it's great.
Why did your, because for people that don't know, for some of the boost amante fans tuning
in right now who are less familiar with your full background, Jim, you know, a special
agent in charge at the FBI, eight years serving as an Army Ranger before that in civil affairs,
which, you know, we can all do math there.
But your roommates at West Point, Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper, were CIA head slash Secretary
of State and then Secretary of Defense for Trump.
And they didn't like them.
And I know you had a lot of conversations with them.
So if we're talking about some of like the behind the curtain is actually like the refreshing
part about Trump, because there's a lot of things we complain about there.
Why did they hate him so much?
So you get, I think you've got two different people, right?
We talked about Esper.
We talked about the, you know, regimental commander at West Point always was the same.
He's never changed.
He has been no different from the day he was a cadet as to he is at this moment.
And so along the way, I think there was a lot of tension between the two of them because
Mark is your true military man.
Mike is to an extent, but Mike's smarter.
Mike's a smarter guy, right?
So Mike knows how to, I think the CIA actually crafted him later in life with regards to
understanding how, I don't want to say play the game, how to make things happen.
So he just took that from CIA to State Department.
He took it right into the White House.
He took it right into the Oval Office.
You know, if you read, I read both books.
It was a little bit harder to read.
Mike's was great, you know, and as my friends have said, man, there's nothing Mike didn't
do himself.
You know, that's kind of what they said.
So it's an interesting peak and I don't know that there was a strong distaste personally
for Trump, but I do know there was a lot of tension.
It was a lot of argument for the sake of ego, ego soul, you know, ego soul thing.
There was never a soul with regards to, I love America.
There was an ego piece.
I love America, however, you better recognize me as a person.
You got that Pompeo, you got my Mike, whatever you called him, you got it, Mike.
You got it, Mark.
One kind of ran with it because he was smarter than the other guy, the other one kind of
jumped out, you know?
So that's my thought.
Obviously, there's tons of stories that right now I'm not going to talk about with personal
conversations with the two of those guys, but I think that the one thing they both agreed
on was the fact that he loves and loved America and that's why they were able to salute, yes,
sir, you know, we'll move forward.
The problem is, you know, the problem at the time was Mark Milley.
I mean, that's the problem in there, bouncing off of everybody.
You know, as a military officer, he's a train wreck, you know, whoever came in last, he's
going to side with that person.
Oh, yeah, you make a great point.
Oh, you make a better point.
Oh, you make the best point.
But I don't make any points.
I don't make any points because I'm just looking for, you know, I wish I went to West Point.
One week he's walking to the church with Trump with all smoke bombs going off and next week
he's saying, I want to know about white rage.
Exactly.
It's like, all right.
Yeah, exactly, you know, but anyway, that's my two cents.
Yeah, and I'm not saying that the thing that America has not accepted is that we all need
to appreciate the Trump White House.
Because the Trump White House transformed the United States forever.
Like in what way?
In how many different ways, man.
We went from mom and dad treating us like kids and we weren't allowed to know the information.
So all of a sudden, we know the information is actually there.
So now when you see the Biden administration stepped up and they basically just replicate
the Obama administration and you see them try to take their conversations back into the
bedroom and close the door.
Now we're kind of sitting there banging on the door, like, hey, we're going to close
We want to know what's going on too.
We want to have a voice in this conversation too, right?
The same shit happening now, we call the bullshit.
Primaries for Republican candidates just went down, right?
The first round of primary debates for Republican candidates for 2024.
That brought up the question, is there going to be a primary debate for Republican candidates?
There are two Democrats, thank you.
There are two Democrats challenging our incumbent president right now.
The third came back from the Biden administration.
Biden will not participate in debates.
That's not new.
Who's the other one?
There's RFK and then-
Gavin Newsom, right?
He's challenging Biden?
I believe so.
I don't know the second one off the top of my head, but for sure we got Kennedy.
Right, I think so.
Either way, either way, an incumbent president has not accepted a primary debate going back
to like, in 1970.
We're in a world now where we have no problem saying, this is bullshit.
Us in 1994, we were like, okay, that's just the way it is.
Now we say, no, this is bullshit.
We kind of want to see what these other folks have to say.
Essentially, we, the American people, won't even get to be introduced to the contenders
for a potential Democratic presidential slot.
We won't even get to know them ever on a mainstream stage.
I mean, Vivek Ramaswamy, the whole world discovered him because he did an outstanding
job in the primary debates as a candidate.
Great talker.
Who is this guy you're talking about?
Vivek Ramaswamy.
What?
He didn't do that.
That was the best answer.
And that's it.
And that's it.
The guy went from, nobody knew him.
Nobody knew him.
Apparently Stephen doesn't either.
Yeah, Stephen didn't know how to spell pregotion either.
So he's great with lights.
Great with lights.
But there's a lot of faith in the spelling.
Stephen, there's a Times article too about Newsom.
What do you think about, make sure we don't say the, I don't want to say his initials
on here, but Bobby, Bobby's security being infiltrated by that guy.
Oh my gosh, man.
Let me tell you something.
That is probably, it has to be some, the most disturbing piece.
And can I just have to chime in because you and I, maybe this makes the final cut.
Maybe it doesn't.
Thanks, man.
And then I literally wrote a proposal for Bobby Kennedy's campaign manager.
How long ago?
Two months ago?
At least.
Telling him in his top three threats that a human assault in a public event was something
that he was going to have to make one of his top two to three primary issues.
And that we already were working on a plan to how to keep him safe, right?
Do diligence, advanced teams, et cetera, et cetera.
And then two days ago or whatever it was, we see this article, I'm like, Jim, we fucking
wrote this down.
Just went up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, you know, you've got, you've got a weird dynamic there.
So his, his campaign manager, strange bird, right?
So.
Cassenage?
Yeah.
Why is he, why is he strange?
Is, I mean, was he an investigative?
I mean, he just thinks, man, no comment, he just thinks, but, but he doesn't get it,
right?
So all you, all we have to do is, and there's a whole, for me, I have a whole theory on gaining
secret services validation in order to move forward.
Yes.
There's things that you see that you have to achieve along the way, but it really comes
down, it comes down to putting it in this simple terms of, I'm going to probably get
assassinated.
If you son of a bitches, don't get on my shit now.
There's the gap.
Andy and I spent the better part of a day authoring this perfect piece in my opinion
and sent it off and I got a phone call back.
Yes, we like it.
We're going to move forward after September 13th, literally.
I think this hasn't.
Wasn't that the date?
It was two days after.
It was the 14th.
The 16th, maybe?
The 14th or 15th happened, right?
Yeah.
Who has sent you the response?
So the contact between, we were one level down from him, from the main guy.
Okay.
The contact sent back, love it, let's get a little bit more detail after the 13th and
it had something to do.
I think he was in New Hampshire.
There was a visit and we'll get this moving.
And we really had it.
We had proposed a 90-dayer, right, to really just put an advanced team in place.
How can you be taken fucking serious as a candidate for the presidency and not have an
advanced team?
Have the hotel you're speaking at do your fucking advance and that's what happens.
CEOs of middle-sized companies, when they travel, they have advanced teams.
Yes.
Executive security protection group for most companies that have more than $100 million
in revenue so that before the CEO travels, for anything, to go take their family to the
Bahamas, to go to a speaking event, to go to a conference, an advanced team goes out
48 hours beforehand, just double checks.
This is how we get from the hotel to the conference.
This is what's in the hotel.
This is within the conference rooms.
These are a couple of areas.
And they're done by, what, 25-year-old veterans who just got out of their first military
tour duty.
Really?
Even the most basic stuff in the world is done on a business level.
But here we have a case, no advanced team was done, and then the risk, the potential
human threat, was posing as one of the stars, sir.
Yeah.
I mean, you, how the-
Open carry, open carry and walked right into the event space by claiming he was part of
the security detail.
Because it's like taking a ladder into a building.
He looks the part.
Yeah, go ahead.
Yep, go on in.
Right.
We had that conversation.
But to me, it's just, you not only have the part for any candidate, right?
Any candidate, we'd be saying, you don't have an advanced team.
You've got to do the history, the track record of his family, they're fucking picking these
people off.
I mean, how do you not have that in place?
Did you hear the story about when he went on Tim Dillon's podcast last week?
No.
They're all, they're all.
They were doing a, I don't know if they brought any security at all, but apparently from what
Tim explained, they were halfway through the podcast, and then the power of the building
shut off.
And he was like, he was like, oh, Cheryl, Cheryl, you can do better than I can.
They're cutting, they're cutting, they're killing me.
And they were there for like 10 minutes by themselves, him and his wife, and they like,
had no idea what was going on, and they had to restart, and then he was like super flustered
after they restarted.
Of course.
And you know, you know, Tim was pissing them off with like the live coverage of it.
Like, hey, Bob, how you feeling over there?
You feeling a little less air?
And you know, the other thing is, okay, it's all, it's all great for the American public
to see.
We caught the guy.
Yeah.
He's just one.
There's, there's hundreds more out there that are watching that and saying, the money
I would, no one around him.
That could be, that could even be somebody coming in saying, let's see what they do.
Let's see how easy it is.
We talked about on a podcast, right?
But Jersey City Financial firm.
It's pretty easy.
It's not that hard to do.
Can you tell that story?
Just for old time's sake.
Yeah, for old time's sake.
I love this one.
Major company, major corporation, major managing partner challenges me.
You don't, it's not a good idea to challenge me because I get, obviously I'm getting worked
up right now.
Nobody's challenging him.
Yeah.
It's just a memory of being challenged.
It's just a memory.
I need, I need the image of Jim outside the Starbucks, unloading a clip, like fucking get
my coffee.
Yeah.
Couldn't believe it.
I mean, that, that was, that was stupid.
And I now know that because everyone's told me that.
But sitting out at Starbucks right outside, it's pretty crowded.
But I'm in the corner with, you know, putting everything on, unloading, and people are looking
like, what the fuck?
Is that guy homeless or is he doing something?
So, you know, get it all done.
I checked it.
Like Julia knows, I checked it 50 times, you know, I'm like, all right, this is going to
be great.
Walk right in, right into the building.
First line of defense is a 22 year old, you know, recent college grad.
How have you been?
How you been?
How you doing?
How's everything?
You doing well?
Hey, I'm just going up.
You know where I'm going, right?
Yep.
Boom.
I'm going to go to the floor, come off, there's the desk right there.
Did you enjoy the bagels last week?
It's this simple.
Did you enjoy the bagels last week?
I did.
Oh, I did.
Yeah.
I'm just going to go in and see him real quick.
No problem.
Walk by his executive assistant.
How are you?
Fine.
Walk in.
He's sitting on his desk, pull the gun out, put it on his head and say, we got a problem.
So bottom line is that is the exact, this is what they are doing.
And this is a guy that is going to have more, he has more threats right now than he even
knows about.
Can you imagine sitting in there and they'll cut the power and he's by himself.
He has nobody to say, oh my God, can you please go check?
No advance.
They have literally, I know this for a fact, they have hotel concierges doing his advance
where he's going.
How would you like a nice dinner?
And then how would you like me to go ahead and map out where you should walk?
Definitely not through the fucking kitchen.
Not the same guy.
Not through the kitchen.
That's terrible.
I'm sorry.
That's, yeah, I mean, have at least one Delta guy, retired Delta guy walking ahead of you.
Make it look like you give a fuck.
The money I would have paid to see a sunglassed up angry Jim DeOrio on top of that motherfucker
going, give me a fucking reason.
Give me a reason.
They put the cuffs on them, they were nice, they were standing them there.
We thought about reenacting that last night.
Oh my God, that would have been awesome.
They didn't give me that peach dessert, I was going to go nuts.
Maybe they'll give you the job now.
Price is up.
We're the only ones that, we're not the only ones that could do it, but I think we'd do
a damn good job.
Yeah, the big part of the problem is that the entire campaign for the Kennedy campaign
right now is all based on how CIA killed his dad.
And you're a spook.
So, yeah, exactly.
So what I would say is, Bobby, if you want to know who can keep you the safest, it's
the person you're the most afraid of.
Yes, that's what you were saying yesterday too.
Absolutely.
He said, if I was the CIA, I'd be doing everything in my possible, everything in my power to
keep him not dead.
I make sure no one, if I'm, strictly from a reputational risk assessment, I'm looking
at a guy like Kennedy and a guy like Trump and saying, put him in a glass box, no one
touches him.
Otherwise, it's just the whole pre-gotion thing all over again.
Ooh, good segue.
Holy cow.
You're getting good at podcasting.
Yeah, man.
Andy's got a killer podcast.
It's almost like you have one yourself.
Wait a minute, you do?
So I'm sitting here with the two people who launched me.
That's fucking crazy, guys.
Well, there's a third.
There's a third.
There was a third.
We have the clip.
Hold on.
Matthew Cox.
Let's give our dear friend Matthew B. Cox, who I call.
Let's give credit where credit is due.
We and Julian were not the first layer.
There was a layer below us.
He's the G-folk.
Greatest fraud of all time.
Bruce DeMonte said he thinks that they're going to abate before the presidential election.
No.
I can't believe that.
First of all, you need special to class.
That guy's a geopolitical gallery.
I hear you.
I hear you.
I know that's just stupid to go up against Bruce DeMonte, but I'm saying that I've been
watching a bunch of videos, and so that makes me an expert.
Take talk all day.
No, he's ex-CIA.
I know.
I'm the one that told you.
You've got to interview this guy.
Who is he?
I don't know.
Two weeks later, bro, did you call him?
What?
Who is this again?
Man.
What does he want?
I don't know.
He literally bugged me to call Bruce DeMonte for like six months before I called him.
Now look at that guy.
Then he calls him.
Bruce DeMonte blows up.
He won't return a fucking text to me.
Wait till you see what he's doing.
You said you'd come on my program.
It's like it's...
He's working on something big right now.
He's about to be worldwide.
Insane.
Yeah, he's stepping on the backs of little people climbing the ladder.
I get it.
How dare you?
Probably won't talk to you.
He's not probably going to talk to you in six months.
He'll be like, Danny Jones, God, that sounds real.
You cut off the end of that where he leans far, he goes, it'll come to me.
It'll come to me.
That is fabulous.
How did you guys meet, by the way?
So Matt was doing a screenplay version of one of the books that he wrote when he was
in jail about a big guy who had ties, like a big criminal that he met in prison.
The billionaire.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Who had ties back to CIA.
And he found me through my first like audio only podcast.
And he reached out to me via email or something like that.
And he was like, hey man, I met this guy in prison who I think had ties to CIA, but I'm
writing a screenplay and I'd like to run the story by you to see if it makes sense.
And Matt and I just, I mean, we clicked right away.
This was, he was just a painter in freaking clear water or some shit.
He was restarting life all over again.
He had still had his website, his blog, where he has all of his true crime stories.
But that's, we just started kind of brainstorming.
That was way, way early.
I had, nobody knew who I was.
I didn't have my podcast up yet.
I had nothing really up, right?
I had a website.
I don't even know how he found me necessarily.
Pretty cool.
Yeah, Jim, you said he was a great FBI employee, right?
I met Matt in a different way.
Probably one of the best agents I ever had worked for him.
Yeah, he was, he's a, hey listen, he turned it around, man.
He jumped on Team USA.
He doesn't shy away from what he's done or who he was and he's helped a shitload of people.
He has.
He doesn't like that.
That's a good, that's a great thing.
I wish we could say that about some of the people who blow their own horn and haven't
done that.
I hate the transition.
Max Cox has helped me a lot and he has never asked for a single thing in return to this
point.
I feel like I haven't given him enough value.
As hard as that is for some people to believe when they hear him tell a story and everything,
like Matt is a very interesting human being.
He's only got $5.7 million in restitution left.
Oh, he's there then.
He's almost there.
He's almost there.
Paying back.
At a hundred bucks a month, paying back Bank of America.
But yeah, then Danny, Danny here brings Boostamante on, does a bunch of killer podcasts
one three years ago, another one on UFOs.
And then the third one was on Russia, Ukraine, right when it was breaking out.
Yeah, yeah.
The Taiwan thing.
And then it was off to the races after that.
Yeah, we'll see.
It's football season, baby, and you know what time it is.
Time to gamble all that hard-earned money on some sports.
As a better, you demand perfection.
And that's where my bookie delivers.
NFL, college football, and a brand new cash out system give you the options to bet and
win all season long.
First two legs of your parlay already hit.
You can cash it out early and place another bet or sweat it out and let it ride for a
chance at an even bigger payday.
Join the my bookie family for an entire season filled with daily odds boosts, same day parlays,
and super contests.
And this season, my bookie has a no strings attached cash bonus that lets you deposit and
withdraw quick.
Use the promo code DJP on a deposit of $50 or more and you can receive up to $200 cash
instantly into your my bookie account.
Bet your deposit amount once and you're ready to withdraw at any time.
Again, that's promo code DJP to claim your cash deposit bonus.
You can bet anything, anytime, anywhere, only with my bookie.
So what are you paying attention to when it comes to the Russia-Ukraine thing right now?
It's so interesting, man.
It's so interesting.
There's, I would say there's kind of three layers to what I am watching, right?
You've got the Russia layer, all the stuff that's happening in Russia.
Progosian, I think is included in this, right?
Then you have the NATO support to Ukraine, which is also changing.
And then you have the Ukraine piece, which is fascinatingly changing, right?
So just a real quick example, the new minister of defense for Ukraine, they changed the minister
of defense at the same time that there's a counter invasion going on, a counter offensive
going on.
They changed the minister of defense.
Why?
Because of corruption issues.
Oh, that's nice.
When did we talk about corruption?
This is me actually, actually doing the whole Matt Cox thing.
I swear that sounds familiar.
We talked about corruption at some point.
When we first fucking launched this thing, dude, nobody was talking about the rampant
corruption in Ukraine when this whole thing started, right?
Ukraine has been a corrupt country forever.
It's basically a mini Russia.
So with like three out of 10 on the Democratic index, it was never a democracy.
We called this out when the whole thing first started.
Now, almost two years into this thing, when Zelensky goes to NATO to ask for continuing
support in the face of a counter offensive that's not happening fast enough and the United
States is facing a change in administration and Poland is facing a change in administration,
the strong allies to Ukraine are all facing a political change.
Then Zelensky's like, I need more support.
And you know what the answer is?
Sorry, buddy.
We have problems with the fact that what we've given you in the past, you don't have good
authentic records to show us what happened with those things in the past.
Yeah, then we lose like $6 billion that we couldn't even find or some shit.
Not even accountable.
How are we going to give you more if we don't even know what it is?
Oh, by the way, maybe you haven't seen our inflation lately.
Oh, by the way, maybe you haven't seen that we're in a recession that nobody wants to
call a recession.
We're doing our best to call it a soft landing.
I got the Maui wildfires and need all that money to fix that, please.
Absolutely.
So what does Zelensky do?
700 a person.
Those are DEWs.
So to close this off, what does Zelensky do?
He changes, takes out the minister of defense who couldn't close the gap on corruption and
brings in a new minister of defense with zero military background.
Amazing.
The new minister of defense's background specialty is in negotiating with Russia.
Oh, nice.
So the new person in charge of the military for Ukraine is a trained negotiator.
Why does he make them secretary of state or whatever their equivalence to the secretary
of defense?
Because we're starting to see what the future is going to look like.
What we've always said it was going to look like.
A negotiation.
Russia's not getting kicked out.
Ukraine's not winning according to Zelensky's rules.
Remember when Zelensky said, we will not quit until every inch of the original 1976 boundary
of Ukraine is recaptured.
Now he's appointed a minister of defense who's a trained negotiator with Russia with no military
background.
And poured the corruption charge on the last guy who he fired.
So it's just a perfect fucking situation.
And we're sitting here just trying to, I mean, even, listen, let's think about it, not one
receipt for once of that $6 billion is returned in any way.
In affidavit form.
I mean, even Dion Sanders is keeping receipts.
Right?
I mean, even Prime, Coach Prime is keeping receipts.
These fucking people can't keep receipts.
Oh, it shouldn't be that hard.
It's incredible.
It shouldn't be that hard.
Can, just for people out there, like we heard about this whole potential revolution happening
back in May or June with Progosian and the Wagner group.
It felt like it was like a 10 hour story and then they made deal, no problem.
And then now there's the whole plane getting shot out of the sky or whatever.
So even before we get there, like, can you walk us all through that and what happened,
like how long Progosian had maybe turned on Putin internally before that and what led
them actually doing this thing and what the, what the actual result was.
It seems like Putin obviously was like, we're going to make a little piece.
Can I start it off with a quote?
Yes, please.
Here was Putin, right?
He was a man with a difficult fate and he made serious mistakes in life, Putin said,
while describing him as a talented businessman.
That's, that to me wraps it all up, right?
To me.
I mean, you made mistakes.
That caused, and Andy and I have talked about that method of alleged killing.
It's at a character.
This one's completely at a character.
Sorry to jump in.
No, it's a frame it.
You got a great, I think it's a great point, right?
So if you go back in time, we're talking June 23rd, July 23rd, August 23rd is when
Progosian's plane goes down.
Two months exactly today, right?
June 23rd to August 23rd.
And essentially what happened on June 23rd was the culmination of what had been weeks
or months worth of Progosian basically saying that the generals in charge of the Russian
military offensive in Ukraine were incompetent generals, which I think the whole world kind
of learned that they weren't necessarily fully incompetent because they still control 18%
of Ukraine, but they weren't nearly as effective as everybody thought they would be.
Meanwhile, you've got the Wagner Group.
Wagner Group is a PMC, a private military contractor.
Mercenaries.
Right.
What we call mercenaries, right?
The actual official term is PMCs.
These PMCs, which are trained former military combat units who are now privatized, better
equipment, better training, they're the ones making most of the offensive gains in Ukraine
on behalf of Russia.
And they're essentially falling under the logistical and financial support elements
of the military, which are not very effective.
So Progosian's getting pissed at the generals leading the military, but Progosian's also
friends with Putin.
So Progosian's like, hey, Putin, can we do something about these generals?
Long enough goes by, he's not getting the answers he wants.
He's just more and more angry at the generals waging the war.
So essentially on June 23rd, he comes out and he's like, fuck this.
The Wagner Group is out.
We're taking our ball and going home.
He grabs what?
I think it was 23,000 troops.
And they basically about face and start marching away from Ukraine, marching towards Moscow.
He doesn't say for himself that he's got Putin on his mind.
He doesn't say anything about a revolution.
He's just saying these generals are incompetent and we're not going to play anymore.
Western media meaning NATO media, American media, English speaking media pick up on this
and they're like, it's a mutiny.
It's finally happening.
Progosian's going to take down Putin.
No, Progosian was just like, I want to show that I'm serious, that I'm not going to put
the Wagner Group on the front lines of dying because we can't get fucking tuna fish because
the military can't deliver their goods.
Then you've got Putin who's stuck in the middle of having to manage this power shift, this
power face-to-face conflict.
Putin's supposed to be in control.
Progosian's supposed to be listening to Putin, but he's not.
So how do we handle this?
And that's how within 24 hours of the, quote, unquote, mutiny, you have Putin saying, it's
okay.
Progosian's no longer an enemy of the state.
This is no longer treason or treachery.
I'm going to give him an amnesty pass on behalf of the Russian state.
And now the Wagner Group and Progosian are all allowed to go to Belarus safely and just
relocate there.
Belarus also housing 17,000 Russian troops on the northern boundary of Ukraine.
So that's June 23, June 24.
From June 24 to August 23, that's preceding 60 days, Progosian's in and out of Russia
all the time, in and out of Moscow all the time because the Wagner Group, what people
don't recognize, the PMC Wagner Group is a massive resource magnet for the Russian government.
They're in Central America.
They're in Eastern Europe.
They're in South America.
They're in Africa making deals and offering protection to corrupt officials everywhere
in exchange for gold, silver, platinum, right?
They're basically bringing in raw, raw precious metals and raw precious goods into Russia,
which is how Russia had so much cash in foreign banks when they were put under banking sanctions
by the United States, right?
Because they actually have tons and tons of resources.
They're not a broke, poor ass country.
They're just, they're cash rich.
And then the United States and the European allies, they're in their sanctions, cut them
off from their own main source of cash, but they still have tons of reserves, right?
So that's all that is what led up to the airplane exploding and nobody quite knows what happened
yet on August 23rd.
I have three predominant theories, and all three predominant theories are basically also
out there by other experts.
Theory number one, some kind of crazy mechanical failure due to sabotage, right?
Theory number two, some sort of internal explosion because a bomb was placed inside the aircraft
that led to catastrophic failure at altitude.
Theory number three, some sort of external explosion, most likely an air-to-air missile,
not a surface-to-air missile, and we can dig into that if you guys want to geek out.
But those are kind of the three predominant theories about what brought down the aircraft.
And then what I find super telling is that there's only one fucking source that tells
us anything about the aircraft coming down, and it's the Russian Aviation Federation, right?
That's it.
Nobody else.
Outside investigators, no third parties, just the government-controlled aviation authority.
That's the source of all information that we've seen on the downing of precautions.
All the U.S.-based news is coming from Russia as a source.
All of it.
Period.
Guess where most of your Ukraine news comes from?
Ukraine as the source.
Now we're, now the light bulbs are going off.
I like the two-spot.
I like the bomb on board theory.
What about door four?
Yeah, they're still alive.
How could you miss door four, Andy?
Oh!
The UFO.
Oh!
Door five!
He's still alive.
Let's roll a TW800 video right now.
Oh no.
We'll get there.
We'll get there.
Hold on.
Hold that one off.
But yeah, I mean, I like two.
I like the two-spot.
The one-spot sabotage, you've got to worry about somebody who's fucking going to speak,
you know, that you could grab, right?
The two is forgotten country for Mother Russia.
Get the fuck on there with a bomb and blow this thing up.
Sorry.
We'll make sure your family's taken.
Suicide bomb?
I love that.
Or just a carry-on.
Yes, which is a suicide bomb.
Yeah.
And the three air-to-air, I like that too.
I like that.
I, you know, but I'm in the two-hole.
Why air-to-air and not surface-to-air?
So the track, the track that the aircraft was on, it had just gone over a military base.
It was actually in a region where jamming equipment was rife because there were so many
military resources, military assets in play geographically.
So there was jamming equipment that was going off and there were tons of sensors in the
area specifically looking for threats to the military bases.
So if there would have been a surface-to-air missile, one of those sensors would have noted
that.
Not just Russian sensors, UK sensors, US sensors, you know, allied sensors who are watching
that military region of Russia would have seen a surface-to-air missile.
So surface-to-air is out.
I think it's fully out.
Anybody who thinks that it's still in is reading the wrong thing or just a willful, ignorant
dumb shit.
But you've also, like, with respect to who's winning the war and stuff like that and how
it's going, you've been aggressive since the beginning that, like, Ukraine has no shot
and everything.
And like you said, we're getting all the news from Ukraine, so that's not very trustworthy.
And there is, I think, hard data that shows that they have given up a certain percentage.
I'm not going to say it because I don't know it offhand right now.
But is there, do you, at this point, since it's dragged on this long and you've seen
Putin at least have some internal problems, do you think there's any opportunity for Ukraine
to, I would describe as win the war, meaning Russia keeps Crimea, Russia probably keeps
some of the, is it the dumb best region?
I'll never get the fucking word right.
You can just call it a sticker.
And then Ukraine keeps everything else, including Odessa, and access to the seaport.
Such an important question, such an important question, because let's be honest about what
we're talking about.
We're talking about the conditions of Ukraine losing.
We're not talking about Ukraine winning.
This is so fucking important because when we started, everybody was like, we need a
winner and a loser because we're fucking black and white Americans and we're like,
oh, somebody wins and somebody loses.
Yes.
That's not the way of geopolitics.
There's no clear winner.
There's no clear loser.
There's just conditions that get set by the winner, conditions that get set by the loser.
Right?
World War II, who won?
Who lost?
It's not as simple as we think it is.
There were just conditions that were set by the West, conditions that were conceded
by the East.
You don't think Germany lost that war?
I said it got pretty ramped up.
What country still exists?
They do, and there's a lot of other reasons with that.
We could talk about a separate conversation, but like, I mean, Germany in the 10 years after
fucking World War II is one of the most underreported histories ever, in my opinion, because it
was like Mad Max Ferry fucking wrote out there.
The whole reason there was an East and West Germany was because we negotiated with Russia
over who would take what parts of the problem.
That's a negotiation.
That's conditions for surrender.
If you want to say that Germany lost, but they still exist as a country, then you can't
say that, well, let's define winning in Ukraine as Russia keeps this half and Ukraine keeps
that half.
No, we're talking about the conditions by which they will surrender.
Well, Germany had like a lot of mainland Europe at one point during the war, and they
eventually were left with half of their original country, and now they've grown into a world
power still enclosed in that area of Germany.
It's not like they have other countries around it or whatever, so I would call that an L,
but I see what you're saying with the fact that Ukraine still is going to lose something.
If they lose Don Bass and Crimea, which they'd already lost in all fairness before this war,
it's not 50% or 75% or something.
Maybe they'll lose 10, 15%.
If you're considering only landmass, you know what happens.
I am considering only landmass.
In the Eastern part of Ukraine is where all of their rare earth minerals, all of their
oil supplies, all of the transfer points for Russian oil, it all exists in the East.
But they still control the pipelines that come through their country now.
They control the pipelines that go through their country, which are few compared to the
hub of pipelines is actually in the Don Bass region.
No, it's in Eastern Ukraine.
All the energy that flows out of Russia flows into Eastern Ukraine and then goes through
essentially like a network of pipes that then spreads out through Europe and Eastern Europe.
You're talking about the actual pipe.
Not to mention the gold, the coal, the other energy resources that are actually in Eastern
Ukraine.
But all of this to say, all of this to say, where do I stand now?
I stand in the exact same fucking place that we stood on the first day we talked about
this.
Corruption is finally making mainstream media after being suppressed for so long.
The corruption has grown so rampant, they have not been able to control it so much so
that even the NATO allies who want to support Ukraine are still in the pressure of 18 months
of support from their own people are saying, we can't really keep, we can't vote again
for you, Polish Prime Minister.
We can't vote again for you, Mr. President.
If you continue to pour resources into this foreign war and not our own natural disasters
like what we're seeing in Maui, the whole world is getting tired of this.
My point from the beginning here was that Ukraine can't wage this war without NATO.
They can't do it.
They just can't.
They have the troops.
They have the courage.
They have the bravery.
What's happening in Ukraine is absolutely a tragedy.
I'm not saying it's not, but what I'm saying is they don't have the resources to be able
to compete in a prolonged conflict with Russia.
Russia knows that too, which is why they just have to kind of keep the pressure on.
It's the fat guy leaning on the skinny guy who's pressing himself against the wall, right?
Eventually the skinny guy is going to get tired of holding himself up and the fat guy
is going to crush him, right?
Just the way it works.
Do you think the NATO countries, what do you think their view on all this is, the smaller
NATO countries that are surrounding that area with the US's pressure on trying to keep
it going?
Do you think they're like in lockstep with us or do you think they're kind of getting
tired of it?
NATO's divided.
This is the other thing.
NATO's been divided since about month four, right?
Hungary and Bulgaria, Hungary and Bulgaria outright NATO members who said, we don't need
to be a part of this, Russia has a claim, Ukraine and Russia have history.
It's their problem, not ours.
From the beginning, NATO didn't support things unanimously.
Now as time has gone on, you saw France, you saw Germany get really upset because Biden,
from his fucking White House thrown in the United States, way outside of the spirit
of influence of Russia and the conflict in Ukraine, you saw him stoking the flames, protect
democracy.
Meanwhile, the European countries are paying the penalty in terms of pressure and energy
costs, et cetera, et cetera, right?
So then you saw France and Germany get pissy about that and be like, Biden, you need to
shut up.
I think he was in Poland.
Yeah.
Visiting the troops.
Yeah.
He gave a speech.
Is that what he accidentally said?
He want to regime change?
Yes.
Accidentally.
Accidentally.
Presidents do a lot of accidental speaking.
Yeah.
I don't think he does.
Yeah.
Definitely.
They just say what they think.
They just say what they think.
The lights are maybe on.
They're dimmed and no one's talking about that.
Yeah.
That dimmer is going dim.
Dimmer and dimmer.
I don't want to say dimmer and dimmer.
Maybe they should run Newsome, Jesus.
So then you, I mean, you're seeing the fraction.
We watched NATO fracture.
More importantly, China watched NATO fracture conversation for a different minute in this
conversation.
Sure.
But like, you were seeing the dominoes fall exactly like they're supposed to fall.
They might be big, thick, fat dominoes.
It's like the, it's like the Jenga at the bar, you know, Jenga at home is like these
little wooden blocks.
Jenga at the bar is the giant wooden blocks.
Takes a little extra energy to knock that first big block over, but eventually they
all fall over.
What bar are you going to?
I need this bar.
You've never seen a Jenga.
Not in the big blocks you're talking about.
We played at the bar with like regular kids, Jenga.
This is why you need to go on a date, Julian.
Oh, wow.
Drops fucking fire too much time at the strip club.
God damn, son.
Get out there, Julian.
Get out of the store.
We're out there.
We're out there.
We were out there.
Yeah.
We were counting the rings.
We're doing all right.
Yeah.
So that's, that's exactly it.
You see NATOs falling apart.
NATOs falling apart because of this strategy that the United States has been putting in
place since the end of the world war, since the end of World War II, right?
The United States strategy for economic dominance is essentially playground bullying.
We're the biggest kid.
You're all the smallest kids.
We'll give you our protection.
You give us your lunch money.
That's been our strategy since the end of World War II, right?
Why?
How are we allies with the Japanese?
We'll, we'll be your military for you.
You just signed on the dotted line here that says you won't have a military.
We'll be your military for you, right?
NATO, we'll create all your weapons.
We'll be your military support system.
We'll do all that for you, right?
And now we created this, this allied base of weaklings and we're the big bully.
Meanwhile, what you're seeing with the BRICS countries and what you're seeing with the
Eastern alliances, Russia, China's leading the charge, they've been the alternative
all the way back to World War II.
They've been the alternative.
The difference is, we've never noticed it that way because in 1955, the Eastern alliance
was like nothing, right?
China had just been born basically, 1949, the Maoist revolution had just happened.
Russia was recovering from being just absolutely destroyed coming out of World War II.
And the United States was the big kid on the block.
Well, a lot of time has gone by and in 70 years, the two are starting to come back to
parity, right?
So and NATO is realizing that all those NATO countries are asking themselves, what should
we do?
Which is why the German chancellor has said, we want to distance ourselves from reliance
in the US military and we will become the largest military in Europe.
Germany wants to be the largest military in Europe?
That sounds like a good idea, right?
France, the president of France is going to China and on parade with Xi Jinping comes
back to tons of people arguing with them like NATO is not the United Front that our
Western media likes to say it is.
The conundrum in my head is that you would think, hasn't the United States thought this
through already?
Haven't they thought 10 steps ahead and seen all this was going to happen?
No.
No, for real.
Hell no.
What's the planning cycle at FBI?
Probably 30 days, 30 to 90.
What's that?
30, 60, 90 pipeline?
We're supposed to have a year of prioritizing crime problems.
How are your leads looking?
By the time we get to the actual presentation, 90 days has passed already.
So we're already in blown cycle.
What's your budget cycle?
Budget cycle is, well, I mean, a year, a fiscal year, but we're well into the fiscal year
before we realize that we overspent or under budgeted for what we need so all of a sudden
programs start getting shut down.
It's the same path.
The CIA has a one-year budget cycle and a five-year budget cycle.
So we have one-year money and five-year money.
So the longest out planning that happens at the premier intelligence agencies of the United
States is one year longer than a president's term.
I don't know if you know the answer to this question in all honesty because you were out
there working, but how much of that is public versus some stuff we don't see?
Hopefully, I didn't just say anything classified, or else I'm in worse trouble than...
No way.
That's why I didn't mention five years because I understand.
No, I'm going to kill you.
Yeah, like I wouldn't know something Booth that already knows.
Come on.
Yeah, I mean, no one should know that information.
Maybe.
Yep, but who knows?
It's got to be deception for its advantageous purposes.
We're just supposed to salute and move forward when the budget office tells us, you're going
to make it this year.
This has been a shortcoming of the United States for a long time.
Yes.
Like no federal agency can really successfully plan for longer than effectively three years
and administratively five years because you have new appointments that become the new
leaders.
Like the CIA has a new director every three to four years.
I don't know how often FBI...
You're supposed to be 10, but I mean, it depends.
Do we have 10-year directors?
Yeah, we do.
Wow, that's amazing.
Yep, we've had some 10 years.
The last few haven't made that.
Comey.
Comey definitely didn't.
I mean, Ray...
That's your favorite guy right there.
Comey.
Yeah, what a great guy.
You still sell him the Christmas cards?
I do.
Yeah, we talk quite a bit.
Fuck you, Jim.
Very one-sided.
It's kind of what it sounds.
That's beautiful.
But yeah, I mean, I think Louis Free, 10 years, Mueller, 10 years, Comey three.
Yeah, something like that.
Like Trump fired him, and then Ray is maybe six-ish right now.
Oh, so yeah, this guy has been in there since Comey.
Yeah.
Maybe six-ish.
I can't remember.
Maybe six-ish.
Six-seven.
So he's winding down.
That's super interesting.
Winding down.
But yeah, so it's very difficult for a democratic government like ours, right, a representative
republic where the president has appointees to some of the senior positions within his
cabinet and White House.
It's very hard for us to have continuity, which was something the founding fathers wanted
because they wanted friction because they believed that from friction would come, we
would slow-roll bad ideas and we would expedite good ideas because of friction.
But then we stopped having land-owning invested people be the ones that could vote.
We stopped having public servants be the one who stepped into public servant roles.
Instead, we started having career politicians and everybody can vote.
And career politicians just need to win a majority, and the majority of people out there
actually don't have a vested interest in their own country.
They're just trying to survive day-to-day, right?
Yeah.
So you put the two together and you have a perfect storm.
So going back to the Russia thing, what, do you think there's any possibility that
Progosian's still alive?
That's the thing.
That's the thing that is like, there's always the potential, right?
I live in a world of probabilities, that's what CIA does.
When I look at the data that we have available to us, keep me honest here, the predominance
of evidence that's available to us is that Progosian is dead.
You saw like the manifest on the aircraft has been reported widely, even though from
one source, it's been reported widely to include him and multiple of his senior leaders.
You saw the Wagner group hold an official ceremony, recognizing his death.
You saw Putin come out and publicly acknowledge his death.
We saw the remains of the aircraft with the number, the legacy 600 was actually had the
right aircraft tail number, so we know it's his aircraft.
So when you put all that together, it's like 98% certain the guy's got to be dead.
But there hasn't been a single third party, there hasn't been any DNA evidence, there
hasn't been any vetted investigation to come out and be able to prove it.
So we're all talking single source reporting.
And you also mentioned that it's not Putin's MO, how he kills people.
It's not.
It's not.
We talked about that a lot.
Yeah.
It's a personal individualized killing, poison, like of the 18 or 24 people that they've
killed in the last like 12 years, yeah, it's poison.
It's poison or it's shooting or...
Or they couldn't fly, they're on top of a building and they thought they could fly.
But individuals, individuals get assassinated.
The killing of, was it eight people, nine people?
Ten maybe in that thing.
Yeah.
Like...
Correct.
It's just not...
He's an eye guy.
You know, eye to eye for like a better term, but he's an eye to eye guy.
What's a look and what's a look at you and make sure you know.
Now there are...
There's words fucking coming.
There are secondary benefits for sure.
Like coming from a world where like I understand sabotage, I understand covert action.
There's secondary and tertiary benefits to blowing up the plane, right?
Benefit number one, you kill Purgotian, hooray.
Benefit number two, secondary benefit.
You also wipe out Purgotian's top two senior administrators in the Wagner group, which
means that the Wagner group as an operational force goes into a power vacuum because his
operational is general.
His two got killed, right?
His two became his one or became the one.
The two would become a one.
But he died inside the aircraft.
And then the logistics and administrative head also died.
So three of the top leaders inside...
He lost Thunderboss and Consolieri, so now he's like, really?
Yes.
Right?
And then the guards.
Yep.
That's disposable.
They're all Wagner group anyway.
So what does Putin care?
You had two pilots and then you had a stewardess, right?
10 people.
So 10 people on the airplane.
And then that's the thing that's so interesting is that the pilots and the stewardess, none
of them were loyalist Wagner group employees.
They were just contract people, right?
One had only been with the company for like three years, one had been a pilot for 20 years.
I think that the stewardess, this was like her first time on an aircraft, on that aircraft
was operated by the Wagner group.
It is shame.
So yeah.
I mean, all of that to say, like the benefit is Putin dies, or the benefit is pro-Gotion
dies.
The benefit is the Wagner group goes into a tailspin, which what did Putin want?
He wanted the Wagner group to come under general Russian military control.
Now you have all these open contracts and no leadership at Wagner group.
They can now basically be ingested by the military.
But why has he never been challenged?
And I asked that because their system is the oligarch system.
So it's this handful of guys who are balling around the world with a lot of fucking money.
I would think something like that, since you're surrounded by all these gazillionaires.
At some point, a few of them got to be like, all right, this guy, I'm fucking sick of this.
And then, you know, like that's never happened though.
There was one guy and he got arrested.
I forget the dude's name.
There's one guy that you don't know about, that we know about.
That's fair.
One guy that's still alive.
Yeah.
Why has the Clinton Foundation ever been allowed to go into their bank breakers one time?
Still active subpoenas on that forever.
They'll be forever.
Same reason.
Same thing.
Yeah, you've got to understand partially culture, right?
Russia is a culture of like strong, strong armsmanship.
That's what it is.
You build your left and right lieutenants.
You become incredibly loyal to each other.
If any one of the three of you succeeds, the other two are guaranteed success too.
That's the oligarch system.
Like, only in the United States, why are wealthy people so heavily involved in politics?
Because they fund it.
They had to work their ass off to get wealthy.
How do you get wealthy in Russia?
You know the right people.
It's the right people that make you wealthy, right?
You don't have to work your ass off.
So you're not invested in the system.
You didn't cry and bleed into a business.
You just made friends with the right person who gave you the primary contract and the
money flowed in.
So all you really care about is keeping the relationship with the person in place.
So the oligarchs are fat and happy, but they're not politically charged.
They're like, Putin's my guy.
I'm rich as long as Putin's in power.
If somebody else is in power, all of his guys are going to take my money.
All of his guys are going to become the new powerhouse.
You know, and the narrative gets spun, right, like we talked about.
So, hey, they're coming back.
They're marching on me.
It's a mutiny.
Everybody's convinced of that.
Press does a great job at putting that out there.
And then at the end of the day, it's kind of just, no, no, no.
That's not what it is, right?
And then the plane blows up.
So it's like, yeah, you know, that's kind of where we go.
And then, I mean, it's very similar.
I mean, it's very similar to what we've observed in certain power political individuals.
So let's consider the airplane.
Let's consider that explosion just for a second.
I'm going to geek out.
You guys geek out with me or just shut me the fuck up, right?
In the, in the, it was in a Moscow airport, right?
So he was departing from Moscow.
Inside the airport, you had two pilots who were from outside the Wagner group.
You had a stewardess who was from outside the Wagner group.
In our terminology, we call those assets access agents, right?
People who are outside of the circle of trust, outside of the vetting and due diligence process
that could be recruited or could be hired or could be unwittingly used to facilitate sabotage,
specifically a bomb being brought onto the aircraft, right?
It could have been, it could have been like a janitor who was sitting next to the stewardess
who slipped a small pocket charge, right?
Or a small box of C4 or whatever into her carry-on bag right before she got on the thing.
She could have unwittingly carried a bomb on board.
First time flying with them.
So who knows, right?
That's, that's one possibility of how it could have happened.
The other thing to keep in mind is in the preceding two hours before the plane,
the plane didn't take off at its depart, its scheduled time.
It was delayed two hours.
Why?
For maintenance issues.
So really?
It had maintenance issues that prevented it from taking off on its scheduled departure time, right?
I asked Steven, Steven, do you have the, you got the website?
So give me just a second and I'm going to have you jump to it, right?
Yeah, let's go right here.
This is perfect.
This is the aircraft.
This aircraft was sanctioned by the West and sanctioned by the United States.
So this specific aircraft couldn't be maintained by anybody other than countries
who were willing to work outside of international sanctions.
So maintenance was probably sloppy.
Maintenance was definitely aging.
You know, that's going to be a hard thing to maintain this aircraft when you,
when you have the power of the Western governments all working against you.
So could it have been an actual mechanical failure?
Yeah, it could have been.
Or it could have also been one of the mechanics that got called in for that
maintenance, actually sabotage the aircraft themselves.
Another version of an access agent because they're not part of the Wagner group.
You see what I'm saying?
So you've got two options there.
Something was slipped on through an access agent or something was intentionally sabotaged
through an access agent outside of the Wagner group itself.
Now then the plane takes off, the plane flies straight and true, everything's good to go.
Until what happens at altitude?
Can you jump down to the altitude chart?
Check this out.
This is dramatic.
Unbelievable.
Yep.
Right here.
Scroll down just a little bit more for me, Stephen.
Oh yeah, in between the two, if you don't mind.
So we have two on screen.
Bingo.
So what you're seeing here is the rate of descent and the rate of climb of the aircraft
at altitude in the preceding minutes before it falls off a cliff and crashes.
You can see it right there, right?
What you're seeing here is essentially in six second intervals, the rate of altitude change.
That means that the plane was in the process of climbing and then leveling out and then
climbing again right before it basically stopped working.
You see how that works?
That's the rate of climb.
So if you look at the upper one, you can actually see the calibrated altitude.
So the altitude is jumping around and it's jumping around between by thousands of feet,
by about 2,000 feet.
Why would an aircraft flying straight and true if it had a bomb on board that nobody
knew about or if it had a maintenance issue that nobody knew about?
Why would it change its altitude five minutes before it actually blows up?
It wouldn't.
That's the whole reason you sneak a bomb on board.
That's the whole reason you sabotage something so that it just operates like normal until
it doesn't.
The fact that the aircraft was changing in the minutes before it went down is huge data.
It tells us one of two things.
Either the sabotage had worked, created a maintenance flaw or a maintenance failure
and the pilot was fighting the maintenance failure.
So it wasn't really a bomb because a bomb would have just exploded.
We're going down, right?
Or there was something outside of the aircraft that spooked the pilot and the pilot started
taking evasive action, which suggests an air-to-air missile.
Oh, shit.
So what they were trying to do when they climbed at the last minute, they were trying to avoid
something?
Correct, because it's a standard operating procedure for any pilot when it looks like
you're on a collision course with another aircraft.
You don't turn, you climb or you descend to get out of the same field of elevation, right?
So here what you see is they must have seen an aircraft, they could have seen an aircraft,
climbed to get out of that.
The other aircraft also climbed.
Then they climbed again, rocket was fired, explosion happened.
We got to think about how the aircraft came down.
Scroll back up to the top, show us that airplane again.
The airplane crashed because the wing became detached.
Wings do not detach.
Unless it's Ryanair.
They got duct tape on the fucking wings.
Wings do not detach.
So in order for that wing to have actually detached, and when you watch the footage of
the airplane crashing, you see it only has one wing, right?
For the wing to detach, that suggests an explosion at the intersection of the wing and the fuselage,
right?
Well, look what's right behind the wing, the engine.
Go back to the aircraft for me again, Steven.
Did you get the video of the plane crashing?
What's the fuselage?
The fuselage is the tube that makes up the airplane.
The wing is the wing, you can obviously see the wing, you see the engine.
Guess what, rockets are tuned, air-to-air missiles, guess what they're tuned to seek?
Look at that heat, baby, the engine all day.
So then that missile, that rocket, would have aimed for the body, the central mass of the
aircraft, heavily leaning towards the heat signature of the engine if it was a heat
seeker specifically.
That's the kind of thing that would rip the wing off the side of a fuselage, not an internal
explosion, not a pocket charge that's stored in the rear half of the aircraft, right?
The other thing that's really frustrating and irritating to me personally, go back to
the images.
Everybody talks about the aircraft coming down because it was missing a wing.
Every picture we see, upper left-hand corner, click on that picture, that's not a wing.
That's the picture you see everywhere.
That's the tail.
Yeah, that's the tail.
Oh.
Near and near to my heart.
Yeah, you know nothing about tails.
You know.
So I want to see where the wing is.
I want to see where the wing fell because single source of information, single source
of information for all the photos too, basically, right, is Russians, Russian sources.
So where is the wing that was supposed to have come off?
So from all of that, I tend to lean and agree with the experts who are out there that the
plane that was brought down was brought down by an external explosion.
Shouldn't they have had DNA evidence by now?
They do.
I'm certain that they do.
Okay.
And it's just whether or not they're willing to release it or share it.
Do you think a ton of intelligence organizations currently have people in Russia?
I'm not going to ask about Ukraine yet, but in Russia?
I am certain there's something deeper to your question because for me, the answer is so
obviously yes.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm looking for confirmation.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Every Western intelligence agency in the world, right, everybody from NATO to the United
States is going to be all up in intelligence sources inside Russia and Ukraine.
Got it.
Yeah.
Have you thought about this?
Have you thought about this?
Have you thought about the Ukrainian intelligence service that is getting intelligence inside
of Russia and then using it for their own purposes and sharing it with the United States?
Of course.
Yeah.
I mean, we're giving them so much fucking money, they better be sharing it.
Have you thought about the Russia, the Ukrainian intelligence services that are getting intelligence
out of Russia, using it for themselves, giving it to their own private contractors who are
then selling it to the United States as circular reporting.
So now the US government, CIA thinks that they're getting intel from the Ukrainians
and they think that it's good intel, but then they're also getting the same intel from contract
intelligence sources, but the contract intelligence sources are actually the same source as the
Ukrainian intel.
That's what we call circular reporting.
That's how you get validation and verification of information that isn't actually correct.
And that's the thing.
That's the nightmare scenario for me that I think is happening in Ukraine that nobody
wants to talk about.
Essentially, the Ukrainian intelligence infrastructure is double dipping by giving their intel to
the US government and selling their info to government contract companies for the United
States whose job it is to get independently verified information out of Ukraine.
Because Ukraine is so corrupt.
Holy shit.
There it is.
Video of the crash.
Roll that back.
Oh, there we go.
Never mind.
Good.
Just.
Yeah, wow.
Nose fawn like a lawn dart.
Damn.
Tough way to go.
Yeah, that's a tough way to go.
That's my nightmare that I wake up from sometimes, the plane's going down and then I like, oh
shit.
Yep.
Yeah, I don't know.
If I'm him and I'm getting on a plane, getting ready to fly across Russia and there's maintenance
issues on the plane, I think I'm driving.
I'm definitely getting off that plane.
Yeah.
Maybe not drive, but I'll walk.
Unless he wasn't on the plane.
Exactly.
That's what I'm saying.
Which is where that 2% comes from, right?
Yeah.
It's going back to the beginning of our conversation.
The world runs on the 2% that we don't know, not the 98% that we do.
Well, Russia's also surviving through this, not just in pushing back some of the lines
with the good old-fashioned war stuff, but they're making deals everywhere too, no?
They're making deals everywhere.
Oh my gosh, you would think that a country that's falling apart, at least that's what
our narrative that's the American narrative says is that Russia's incompetent broke and
I mean, let's add on to it, right?
But instead, the BRICS is stronger than ever.
American allies are joining the BRICS trading block in the last 30 days.
You need to find BRICS for people who aren't familiar out there.
Yeah, BRICS is the Eastern trading alternative to essentially the G7 countries.
So the G7 are all your rich, wealthy Western countries, the UK, France, the United States,
right?
Canada, and the trading block that's created by the G7, BRICS are all of the wealthy developing
countries of the world.
BRICS is what they go by, even though they're much larger than this, Brazil, Russia, India,
China, South Africa.
That's the original BRICS.
And who are some of the other ones you're saying are in it now?
Saudi Arabia just joined, Indonesia just joined, UAE is considering joining.
Iran just joined.
Oh, that's nice.
This is crazy.
Wait, they're in something with Iran right now?
Yeah.
But it's kind of just a terminology more than anything.
It doesn't necessarily mean that the treaties that are being signed are every time every
country's signing.
It's like something that was invented by Goldman Sachs.
There's no treaty here.
This is the difference.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
This is the major difference between how the West does business and how the East is
starting to do business.
In the West, we're like, hey, you want to be in our trading block?
Great.
Money.
And here are the rules.
You have to agree to our ideology.
Here are the standards for democracy.
Here's all the stuff that you have to do.
In the BRICS, they're like, hey, you want to trade with us?
Cool.
Done.
Bet.
You want to beat your people?
That's cool.
You want to use child labor?
That's cool.
All we know is that you give us an economic advantage as a trading partner.
Let's do it.
That's the alternative to what the United States forces and how we force human rights
on people, how we force the US dollar on people.
How we now have proven to the entire world, the whole world now knows that if you piss
us off, we're going to hold your good money in our banks and we're going to get all of
our friends to hold your money too.
Nobody wants to be friends with that guy.
That's the bully on the playground, the first day of college.
People are like, you were something in high school.
You're shit now.
Yeah.
It really has set a line with this whole war, with exactly what we were talking about,
the East and West thing, because I've seen a lot of stories where Russia's making deals
with countries in Africa, which is very interesting, but you were also saying South America, they're
all over that.
What's the story there?
It's the exact same thing.
It's the ability for Russia to export influence through strongman leadership.
They can use mercenary groups.
You know who replaced Wagner?
I don't even know.
Read out.
Oh, really?
U.T. was the primary competitor to the Wagner group, to multiple PMCs inside Russia, so
essentially Wagner group said no, they fade away, their number one competitor, read out,
comes in, and they're in charge now.
They're the ones that have all the Kremlin support now, because Russia has it down.
You go in and you find corrupt leaders in poor countries, poor developing countries.
Corrupt leaders don't actually know how to manage resources, they don't actually know
how to lead people.
What they know how to do is take money in exchange for favors and everything else.
They're learning from China.
China learned from us.
That's exactly what we did after World War II, guys.
I'm full-blooded American, guys.
I bleed red, white, and blue.
I think we did the right thing.
But you want to leave in five years.
But we never fucking adapted.
Oh, yeah, I'm going to leave in five years.
I'm still going to keep an American passport.
Gotcha.
You go to Greece?
Sure.
I'm going most likely to Europe.
I'm going to sell you on Greece.
I'll be somewhere in Iberia or in the Mediterranean.
Greece.
Man, every place in the...
Mediterranean is beautiful.
Greece is beautiful.
I thought it was seven.
I thought it was seven years.
Five to seven.
It depends on the freaking momentum of the business, exactly.
Greece, you have all the beautiful resorts everyone talks about.
They're amazing, like Mekanese and stuff like that.
But then you also have all the places that no Americans go to.
And it's like...
And Greeks, a lot of people there speak great English and everything, so you can get around
very easily.
I kind of look at the residency requirements for Greece.
A big part of what drives it is residency.
It's John Kiriakou.
He knows.
It's true.
Here we go.
You talk with him ever?
Not yet.
I didn't think so.
I need to get you and him on a podcast.
That would be incredible.
Get him in that scene.
Recently opened, American University of Kyiv.
There we go.
It's already coming through to fruition.
What's this?
Just opened.
This is how you get your money's worth out of...
This is how you get your money's worth out of all that humanitarian aid.
By having...
Recently...
Yep.
Recently opened, American run, obviously.
Just absolutely no boundaries with regards to background citizenship, who people are
when they're attending.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's your pipeline.
This is the stuff that makes people go, what the fuck?
Yep.
This is the stuff.
They hear about $6 billion getting lost.
And there's your justification.
So...
What are you looking at?
What are you looking at?
Tell the world what you're looking at.
This is an article.
It's not even an article.
It's on the site AmericanUniversityKyiv about us.
AmericanUniversityKyiv is designed as a world-class private university based in Ukraine, powered
by Arizona State University.
They're all majoring in Coke and Pussy.
Isn't that funny that we just talked about this last night?
Oh my God.
I had a client that had an MBA from Arizona State.
I'm like, please don't ever tell anyone that again.
That's one of the largest public universities in the United States with over 135,000 students
and 4,500 faculty members.
ASU has been ranked number one for innovation in the United States according to...
Okay.
What?
What?
According to the U.S. News and World Report and is considered one of the most prestigious
universities in the world, according to Times Higher Education.
I've never even heard of this.
What is this?
Yeah.
It's a...
I mean, we're...
This is brand new.
It's a dot edu dot...
What is that?
I can't read it.
I can't see it with my bad eyes.
Yeah.
It's all the way back there.
E-n dot slash E-n.
Is it U-S or U-N?
What's right before that?
U-A maybe?
U-A.
Dot edu dot u-a slash E-n.
It's a subdomain under University of Arizona.
Is that what it is?
Yep.
Sitting in Ukraine.
Okay.
Maybe that's it or it's like Ukraine, something.
I don't know.
That's crazy.
Because people see these things and they're just like...
And there's also rabid misinformation being fired by both sides at all times.
So you have to...
You know, when I just see a video of something, regardless of who it's from, like, who the
fuck knows.
You know what I mean?
I'm like, is that the same one?
Could be something filmed three years ago, right?
That's true.
Very true.
So, you know, it falls right into our political division in the sense that it's everything
or nothing, left or right, whatever.
People can't have, you know, that middle ground of like, well, this might be okay.
That might not.
But you look at Ukraine, the whole point of like the people pushing the war, the heaviest
is like it is this critical, strategic location that if Russia took it, they'd have access
to the seaports and there'd be a giant iron curtain going across like western, like somewhere
Churchill is going, yeah, baby, let's go.
But like, is that even...
Is that true?
Is that...
Like, let's say Putin got all of Ukraine in a year or something.
Like, does that mean like now maybe Belarus would be easy for him to make a partnership
with, but now he wants to like to go to Poland and be like Hitler and go to Germany and
everything?
Is that a real possibility?
No, not even close.
And it's funny because that's exactly the narrative that you hear being fed to the West,
that somehow it just starts with Ukraine.
No.
Right.
Now, I don't even think Putin necessarily wants Ukraine.
I think he has most of what he wants in eastern Ukraine.
And then he wants a Ukraine that's individually run, but leans Russian, right?
Because if he actually takes all of Ukraine, he now has NATO as sharing a border with the
Russian Federation, that he doesn't want that, right?
He's never once said he wants Ukraine.
The Western narrative has said that he's going to take Ukraine.
What he has specifically said was very early in the war where he was like, if Ukraine doesn't
give in to us, I am willing to take away their sovereignty.
That's the only thing that he has said about what his ambitions are in Ukraine.
All he wants is for Ukraine to not be part of NATO and to play nice with Russia and distance
themselves from the West.
He's not trying to make fucking Ukraine part of Russia.
It's not what he wants to do.
Does Putin want to go to war with the United States eventually?
No, the United States doesn't want to go to war with Russia.
That's not what anybody wants.
Nope.
It's really interesting seeing his perspective dealing with all of these U.S. presidents
over the past however long it's been, and especially from those interviews where he
talks so kindly about some of these people, especially the, for example, there was a moment
when Oliver Stone asked him about Hillary Clinton, like, what do you think about Hillary
Clinton?
Here's her quote, where she calls you Hitler, and he just smiles and is like, she's a very
dynamic woman.
That's what she is.
Yeah, that's the military.
That's some intel training right there.
That is.
That's deflect and do not.
He seems very, he seems like very level headed.
I mean, this is my outside perspective.
I don't know anything, but he seems like he has, he's very cold and calculated and level
headed.
So.
That's my same read, man.
And that's not, that's the read of every professional I have met in the military, in the intel world,
and even in business.
Yes.
The only time I hear people complain about him being crazy in a wild card, it's all
trumped up media or people who need it.
It's all media, man.
Remember that the sitting at one side of the table and everyone else sitting at the other
side and him staring people down.
Where's that coming from?
Yeah.
You know, it's certainly not coming from people who've interacted with him.
I mean, listen, he's a cold-blooded killer, but.
Keep in mind, keep in mind.
The photos we see are cultivated photos.
Not fabricated, but cultivated.
So if they have 150 photos of Putin to choose from, and of those 150, 149 show him sitting
in a group, but two of them show him sitting alone.
We know which two we're going to use, exactly, right?
It's like the inverse of Instagram.
My wife hates Instagram because she goes through, she's like, Instagram is the highlight
reel of everybody's life.
Yes.
Everybody's life is fucking sucky and miserable and hard.
Right, right.
It is the highlights.
But you know what I mean?
The super hot Instagram influencer chick who's wearing almost nothing and looks smoke and
hot.
Guess what?
She's going to be doing it about eight o'clock in the morning.
Right.
Taking a dump.
Yep.
She's not posting that.
Yeah.
She's not.
Right?
Yeah.
Every now and then she gets a pimple.
She's not posting that.
Nope.
Yep.
So what media does is the inverse of that.
Everybody knows that the couples that seem the most happy on Instagram who always take
photos together are the most unhappy couples.
Oh, wait.
Is that what it is?
That's how it goes.
Okay.
Do note it, Danny.
Do note it.
No more, no more, no more of those.
I'm single, by the way, anybody.
Not anybody.
Right.
Yeah.
Not anybody.
Not anybody.
Yeah.
That is correct.
Thank you.
So if the U.S.'s goal really is regime change in Russia, who is the next, how do you know
if the next person who goes to lead Russia is better or worse than Putin?
Do you think that our goal is regime change in Russia?
I don't.
I think we love where we're at because we know who we got.
Better to know that enemy than, if it's, I mean, better to know that person well and
be able to do what we've been able to do.
Listen, we said before, do we want to go to, want to go to war with, how does that end?
How does war with Russia end?
There's one way.
Nukes.
That's it.
It's got to be a winner.
There's no other way we fight that battle.
No other way.
We might start fighting that battle that way, but I can tell you, it's going to get, it's
going to get nasty quick.
Let's dissect how you even landed on that question, right?
That wasn't even a question really.
The first thing you started with was a statement.
If the United States' end goal is regime change, where did that even come from?
That came from the media perverting the words that the president actually said when he was
in Poland because I think what Biden literally said was, how in God's name can this man be
allowed to rule?
That's right.
I think that's what he said.
Right.
Can you find the video of Putin talking to the troops in Poland?
And that's interpreted as?
And that's interpreted by the media as?
I want a regime change.
We need a regime change.
Exactly.
No, I could see how that could happen.
That makes sense.
And then once the media says...
But why would the media twist that?
Because they want clicks, dude.
Because if you post the truth of what people say, it's not nearly as compelling as if you
interpret it in a dramatic way.
That's right.
And then reinforce it.
Here's the fucking...
The deputy director's going to sign off on that?
The massive mistake that the United States media has played in this whole conflict in
Ukraine is that they have essentially validated Putin and all of his claims for wanting to
fight in Ukraine.
Because when the American president says, how in God's name can this person be allowed
to lead?
Whatever he said.
And then the media blasts out to the universe and all, Biden wants regime change.
Now Putin can take that line from media to the Russian people and say, the United States
wants regime change.
Yep.
No, it was Biden talking.
Yeah, Biden talking in Germany?
Poland I'm pretty sure.
It may have been Germany.
Either way, Biden calls for regime change.
He doesn't know where it is either.
Yeah, you know he has his guys back there going.
Do you guys have ice cream?
Did you see the one the other day where they're like, well, this was maybe a few weeks ago
where he's like doing the Medal of Honor thing, he just like walked out halfway through.
I feel bad for the guy.
I really do.
It's his no business doing any kind of job.
When do they move in?
When do they move him out and replace him with Kamala?
They can't do that.
There it is.
Second video.
They can't do that.
Biden walks back, regime change comment.
She is, yeah, they can't do that.
No, it was a video of him in like a warehouse.
He was with the troops.
Like sitting right next to me.
Right there, troops.
Well, yeah.
Well, so I thought he gave the speech when he was actually on the stage.
I think, yeah, that's what I thought too.
No, I think he was like sitting next to troops like this almost and he was very close to him.
Like, hey, you know, we want regime change or something like that.
It's like you don't want to, you know.
They would go by the colonel, the major, and, uh, I don't think they have it.
The quote is, for God's sake, this man cannot remain in power.
But I don't know, is that calling for a...
Let's do it.
No, that's not it.
I don't think that's it.
Damn.
That wasn't it?
That time?
Yeah, that's it.
The train will never be a victory for Russia, for free people refused to live in a world
of hopelessness and darkness, who will have a different future, a brighter future, rooted
in democracy and principle, hope and light, of decency and dignity and freedom of possibilities.
And freedom of possibilities.
For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power.
God bless you all.
There you go.
And may God defend our people.
That is not where he said it.
So he said it twice.
Yeah.
So he doesn't want regime change.
That's...
But that's where he said it.
This is where it came from.
What...
The United States does not want regime change in Russia.
What the United States wants is chaos in Russia, because that keeps Russia weak.
Good for business.
We also like them for elections, right?
Not now, I'm confused.
Because we always get to blame them.
Oh.
Yeah.
We've only gotten to do that since 2016.
Pretty good.
I don't saw it.
I didn't see where that one was going.
Yeah, I liked it, though.
Danny Jones, man.
That's what Putin said in that interview with Oliver Stone.
He was like, every election cycle, they use us as the bad guy.
Very true.
Yeah.
And so you do get that chaos.
We build that chaos.
We deflect from what's actually going on, most likely.
Because they have always been the bad guy, right?
If we change the leader of Russia, we don't have any use for them that way.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This is a lesson.
This is GWAT.
Fucking people don't understand GWAT.
The number one lesson we learned in the global war on terror is that if you kill the lead
terrorist, you have no idea how bad the second guy is going to be.
They could be a leaf and roll over.
Right.
Or they could be a fucking monster, right?
So the devil you know is oftentimes better than the devil you don't know.
So that's why you just, you stroke the fires of chaos.
I don't know if you mentioned this at all when I was at the bathroom a few minutes ago,
but like who, remember that drone that got shot down over the Kremlin?
This had to be a few months ago.
Yeah, a few months ago.
Yeah.
Who do you think that was?
Oh, that's so, this is what's so, dude, there's so much here to unpack.
Unpack?
So there have been multiple drone attacks inside the Russian boundaries, inside the Russian
sovereign territory.
Ukraine takes credit for those drone attacks for the most part, but then they also acknowledge
that there are splinter groups that are pro-Russian operating from Ukraine.
Problem is, those splinter groups are oftentimes associated with neo-Nazis.
What was Putin's original claim for launching the invasion into Ukraine?
We're getting the Nazis out.
So now Ukraine is actually, if not supporting at least, accepting neo-Nazi extremist groups
to launch attacks into sovereign Russian territory, which makes it look for all intents and purposes
like Ukraine is allying with neo-Nazis.
Is that a fog of war thing though a little bit though in the sense that wars happen and
everyone's protected.
We can't really stop that.
That's a practicality of war.
You've got to wage a war.
They've got resources like for the enemy of my enemy.
Because like in their defense, we have neo-Nazis living in America.
I wouldn't want our nation defined by those fucking assholes.
So they have some too.
And now they're in the middle of a war and those people are fighting.
And that's why we have the FBI.
So that when those neo-Nazis do try to participate in something, our law enforcement agency comes
in and says, that's illegal.
But if we were being invaded right now, we're in the middle of a war, would the FBI really
be focused on doing that?
What is the FBI focused on right now?
Honestly, I'm being serious.
I'd love to know.
Anybody who can give me a call, I'd appreciate it.
What do you think?
I mean, you, so Jim, you left.
You left in 2018, right?
2018, five years ago.
What are you hearing from inside the bureau now from your people still there?
So Andy and I had a pretty long talk walking the beach yesterday and really what it comes
down to is there's just a whole bunch of people.
I think we talked about, yeah, we definitely talked about the one out of three role back
in the day.
I think we're probably two and a half out of three.
Can you explain what that means?
Basically one guy, every three, I would say the average, every three agents and or management
figures in the bureau, program managers, agents in charge, I would say one out of every three
is not doing a damn thing.
Back when I was in, the other two are covering and doing their own work and it's not a problem.
Because again, our mentality as government employees is survive till your pension.
That's what you're supposed to make.
You have no value monetarily when it's over, you will just grind for the hopes that you
get a job afterwards that pays you $120,000 a year to hop, we'll take New York City area
to hop on a bus, take a two and a half hour ride into the city, work and ride back and
you're happy with that, right?
So that's the two out of three that have that mentality.
The one out of three, he doesn't care because he's figured out a way to look at his numbers
and that's where he wants to be, he sets his life up around that.
Now, my thought is, there's half a person doing the work and the other two and a half
are waiting around for this great pension, right, and what's going to happen?
What does that cause?
It causes issues with motivation, it causes issues with big picture things, it causes
issues with sitting and being innovative.
How can we move this forward?
How can we get it where it needs to be in competence?
And it's the quick rise, right?
It's also the quick rise.
So the bureau right now has zero leadership.
So Chris Ray, I think he's a really nice man, I don't have a problem with his law degree
and how he has done in his law practices, defense lawyer at trade, but he doesn't have
the ability to influence people that work for him and work hand in hand with Congress.
You see him in front of these committees.
They're asking him difficult questions, he doesn't have the answers.
He doesn't put himself out there as a director, you must do that.
You must take attention off the agency.
You must deflect.
And then if that means getting fired, that's what you have to do.
You have to walk in.
Louis Fri basically had that happen, right, like he resigned because he was taking the
hits, right?
Well, I mean, he lasted his time, but Louis Fri was a true leader and had been there and
done that.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yeah, and he's a true leader.
I mean, he had done things that were outside of the actual norm for FBI directors and stuck
up for his troops.
It didn't matter what my fault, my bad, let's talk and was knowledgeable to speak in front
of the House or Senate about issues.
This guy might be knowledgeable, but he just refuses to answer questions.
I can't talk about that.
Paula Bate, who's the number two counterterrorism guy by trade, bright guy, smart guy lost his
mind, you know, scrambled in, in this prevailing feeling about the FBI and the fact that we
are weaponized, and I don't want to say we, they are weaponized.
He has confirmed that by acting as absolutely defiant to questions that are posed to him
instead of preparing and answering the questions.
No, we are not.
There's plenty of proof to show we are not that way.
Well, what's, what's the difference here?
Because I feel like, especially in the social media world where the politics are all over
the place and very divided, it gets worse and worse.
The FBI, when they go to create a case, any agency, but let's focus on where you're at
right now.
The FBI is going to get criticism and, and depending on which side the hammer is falling
on on the case, the other side's going to be ripping them and whatever.
You, when you were at the FBI, were one of, and complete what I am allowed to say here,
you were one of the lead investigators on the Hillary Clinton investigation.
Maybe.
Okay.
Now, we see another investigation.
Now she was a presidential candidate at the time.
Everyone knew she was, right?
She wasn't president, but she was, she was going to be the candidate.
Now we have all these investigations happening into Trump and charges being brought.
So people use the words like politicization and stuff like that.
But would you say it was also politicized back in 2015 too when you're going after her?
By a person that shouldn't have had that stage, that platform, Jim Comey, he made it what
it was.
He turned it on its head.
And so when you think about it, there was a bunch of work done and there was a bunch
of allegations that were covered during that work.
There was evidence that was actually brought forward, investigated, vetted, discussed amongst
tons of time, you know, over the course of time.
That is supposed to have a process.
When that is found to be, it goes to the A.J., it goes to Loretta Lynch at the time, or it
goes through someone that she appoints to handle that particular allegation or that evidence.
At the end of that time, it is her ability and her right of refusal to say, thank you
so much, investigators.
We appreciate your efforts.
Here's the reasons why we're not going to prosecute it or, or more likely, and what
normally happens, I like where you guys are going with this.
I see your train of thought.
Can we just pump up and close the lid on this piece of evidence?
All predicated on evidence, not something that's wildly made up.
Yes, we can.
Come back and there might be lists for the, till the end of time.
Sometimes you have lists that last six months, seven months, eight months with regards to
investigation.
You run them all out and you still might get the answer, nah, we're just not going to do
this.
And here's the reason why.
And mostly it's like, because if we go to trial, we're going to lose, all right?
Not saying it didn't happen.
If we go to trial, we're going to use, we're going to lose.
What happens here is, Comey, not in that position, although former youth attorney in
San Francisco stands up there and says, yeah, I looked at all this.
I'm not going to present it to, to Miss Lynch, to AG, to General Lynch.
I'm going to go ahead and just make that decision on my own.
But shame on you, Secretary Clinton, shame on you.
You know, there are some of those things are questionable, but certainly didn't commit
a crime.
Bullshit.
But now they are bringing charges years later on the other side.
They're bringing, they're bringing charges that are absolutely ridiculous and the method
by which they bring those charges, sorry about doing that, I'm getting excited.
Taking it back.
The transformational deorial, what happened was, but if you look at other methods that
could have been used in order to gain the supposed right, you know, the supposed path
of that investigation, weren't used, very simply put, fourth white, fourth right subpoena
is a very common tool in the world of corruption, public corruption investigations.
What is done simply is I show up at your office, Danny's the governor of Arizona, I show up
to that office and I say, listen, there's 12 items that we need from you, governor,
or whoever the representation would be.
We're not going to leave here today by subpoena until one of two things happens, you either
prove to us that you don't have those documents.
That's it.
You don't have to tell us where they might be, who might have them, or you present them
to us.
That's it.
It's over.
I've never had a fourth white, fourth right subpoena that hasn't been disposed by the
end of that time, no, seven, eight hours of time, yes, waited that long.
Why did that was the easiest way to get those documents that day under very simple, go in
two agents, just always have two with you, sit down, hey, thank you so much, over.
Get the documents, move along, no, that's not the way it was done because they needed
to show something.
They needed to put forward a show, boats, planes, choppers, swat, HRT, dogs, you know,
vehicles, armored vehicles, what are we doing, what are we doing, who authorized that, fucking
Chris Ray.
That's who authorized that.
Do you think it comes from them though, or do you think it comes up from higher than
them?
Oh, I think it definitely comes from the A.J.
With both investigations.
Definitely comes from the A.J.
It definitely comes from the A.J.
I mean, the whole, remember Loretta Lynch and Bill Clinton are meeting on tarmacs, you
know, now they publicize one meeting, it was way more than one meeting.
Really?
Yes.
No doubt about it, right?
So, no doubt about it.
How could it just be one meeting in one spot in Phoenix, I think it was at Phoenix airport.
The one we know about.
Yeah, the tarmac, and you're out there, and hey, how's your grandkids, how are your grandkids?
Yeah.
Really?
All right.
You know.
You're not going to bring this investigation out, you understand me?
You understand me?
We'll stand there for an hour, and I'll show you pictures.
You're not going to like-
Go to Arkansas, and they didn't do that shit to me.
They're not doing it now.
Exactly.
So, that I think is, how do you classify that in this world?
How do you look at that?
Is that weaponization, or is that pure corruption?
It feels like, to me, I don't want to, like, plane Jane it down, but it feels like just
regular old corruption.
Yeah.
Too powerful for people getting on a plane.
To me too.
You know, going too far with the dog and pony show to get some documents.
And an FBI director that clearly we now know was biased in his party and what he did.
Well, back then, Comey.
Correct.
So, clearly, we know that now, and there's other examples of him, you know, that I can't
talk about, other examples of him doing things similarly to that.
That's his thought pattern.
You guys at the FBI.
Bigger that he's a narcissist.
Right?
He's bigger than life.
Prevailingly, though, you were saying you guys at the FBI did not like Comey when he
was directed.
No, I don't think he could find many, because he was egotistical and he was going to solve
the world's, the bureau's problems.
You know, the big thing on Comey was when he first came in, oh, you know, he doesn't
wear a sport coat.
He walks around, hey, you want a cup of coffee, hey, great job on that.
People love that, initially, until they started to hear his policies.
And then there was that group that kind of associated themselves with him.
Why?
Oh, I'm going to get to the top.
Look, my opportunity to get to the top.
And then some of those did.
We know those names.
Right?
So, once they got to the top, they realized, holy crap, I don't know how to do this job.
I'm here, but I have no idea how to do it.
Oh, hey, let me go over to US Attorney's Office.
Let me go to the AG's office.
How do I do this?
What should I do?
Oh, I'll tell you.
Sit down.
And then there's where the agenda starts to correct itself.
It's interesting that you say something along the lines of he thought he was going to be
there to solve the world's problems and everything.
I mean, this is, I always wonder what the origin story with people is, what formulates
their mistakes and stuff like that.
With him, what was George Bush's Attorney General in O3 name again?
Starts with a P, I think.
The AG at the time, this was like, I think this had to do with all the Snowden stuff.
I want to say it was Stellar Wind.
He had had an emergency happen, decked me something.
He was the AG's in the hospital.
Like a holiday weekend?
Something like that.
Something like that.
Was borderline incapacitated and they were going to pass this something that had to do
with like Stellar Wind, like illegal spying, Cheney's people wanted to push it through,
armitrage, all those guys.
John Ashcroft?
John Ashcroft, that's it.
So Ashcroft is on like, what could be a death bed, he ended up living and was fine, but
like he was fucked up on all kinds of drugs.
And they wanted him to sign through the Cheney portion of the White House, which was the
White House, I guess.
Wanted him to sign through this order that says, yes, we're going to continue this under
emergency provisions, steal everyone's constitutional rights, whatever.
And so Mueller, Mueller, and who was the director of the FBI at the time, and Comey, who was
the assistant, they rushed to the hospital at the same time.
They gather around this poor sick guy's bed, like have him inject them up with drugs so
he can fucking sit up and make a decision.
And actually, to the constitutional credit of Mueller and Comey, convinced him, I believe,
not to sign that one, right?
So they didn't get that one through, I hope I'm remembering that right.
And so I feel like Comey, when you look at his backstory, he was like the guy that stood
up and he did the right thing, because also he was a Republican, this was a Republican
White House, they wanted shit done, and he's like, no, this is the right thing to do.
And I kind of wonder if that like, going to make up a word here, but like ego-fies you
moving forward, and maybe you carry that to something like the job.
I think it did.
Big man, big presence, big ego.
So he's now faced with a situation where he can make a difference in his mind.
I can make a difference here.
I can make a difference.
I'll jump in.
I'll do the AG's job when it's not my job.
And I should know that because I've done that job.
I've done both.
So I know that it's 1 million percent the decision of the attorney general, just like
it is with a simple assistant United States attorney.
I go over, I present my case, they say no or yay, and I move forward either way.
I pissed.
I'm not saying I'm not upset and pissed.
You know, we've talked about stories about Chris Christie.
You know, yeah, you're mad, you're upset, but you understand, you're not getting anything
done.
It's not going to happen.
So Comey kind of hybrid, hybrid it himself.
So he was going to, he was going to present the evidence to himself and then make the
decision and deliver it to the American people on a pretty broadly, you know, a pretty wide
net of media that he talked about that was a member of the presentation was an hour.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Oh, here's what we found here at July.
And I'm sit.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
It was a Monday.
I'm sitting there going, whoa, there goes, there goes eight weeks of my life.
You know, yeah.
And we all did.
Yeah.
I mean, do you.
So you disagree with how he did it obviously because he went totally outside the chain
of command and how it's supposed to be done.
Yes.
But in hindsight now years later, because I'm looking at it based on today's events
too and how we're divided over like a potential political prosecution here at Trump.
Do you think he made the right decision not injecting like charges into a presidential
race and actually like put it, I mean, people claim he put Trump in office with the Wiener
emails announcement like two weeks before the election.
But still, like at least in this case, he's like, all right, it's going to be the two
of them and this was bad.
I'm going to admonish her, but I'm not going to get the FBI weaponized to like put the other
guy in office.
And now like with that precedent, let's say if they found out Trump did some stuff wrong
too, and a guy like you would want to bring charges against him, maybe they'd do the same
thing to at least let the election happen and best man win.
And that's the way it should happen.
What you just explained, there's a, there's a unwritten written rule that basically says
you will not affect an election cycle.
And there's an actual, and I think they mentioned that in that case.
I think they actually talked about whatever it is, 60, 90, 120 days or whatever.
We can't do this.
It doesn't affect, and I think it begins with the primary cycle.
So and it's really just all about raising money, right?
So we don't want to get in a position where we're not allowing that candidate to have
a legitimate shot to move forward in their campaign.
So that is a, that is probably one of the most widely known rules outside of being published.
So any corruption agent, any white collar agent, any counterterrorism agent knows,
hey, we can't mess with this campaign and you're told that you should be told that.
So it's either one way or another.
Either that happens or it doesn't.
Either that happens or it doesn't.
Either somebody says, nope, we're not going to, we're not, I don't, I wouldn't have had
any problem with, no, we can't do this right now.
It doesn't mean the charges won't be revisited at a point after or whatever.
But it clearly was marked in some way both sides now to affect an election.
Clearly, to me, I, I will, I will go to my grave knowing what I, what I looked at and
spent time on was, was a crime, period.
Now with Hillary, yeah, I mean, I will go to my grave with that.
I'm not going to talk details on what portion I had, but I will go to my grave knowing
that that was a problem.
And if it was me, you, you, or you, we'd be charged.
We'd be in jail.
We'd be in jail.
And that's the way we always looked at things.
If it was us, we'd be in jail.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
For a lot less than that.
I was outside.
I had, there were other things that were going on contemporaneously in FBI headquarters
that I think you'd probably be able to talk to everybody that would say they ever were
to talk.
Yep.
Yeah.
We're convinced too.
So how do you view that?
How do you look at that over time?
What was Jim Comey's role?
What is Merrick Garland's role?
What is their role right now?
What are they supposed to be doing versus what they're doing?
What is Chris Ray's role?
What was Jim Comey's role?
That's what I think is confusing.
That's where people spot weaponization and say your inaction is causing weaponization.
In people's minds.
Again, we go right back to the same thing.
People are going to make something up when there's a gap.
They don't understand what happened.
They're going to close the gap.
They're going to close it and say, oh, 100% weaponization.
Rank and file, not a chance that you'll find, yeah, one or two.
You're going to find one or two corrupt people everywhere.
It just happens.
Sure.
But for the most part not.
And where the FBI is right now, leadership-wise, is really a disaster.
It's a disaster.
It's a disaster.
It's super discouraging considering CIA is in that much better position.
And that the federal agencies writ large are just suffering from massive attrition.
Yeah, what's up with the CIA?
What would your main bones do?
Is it literally what he's saying right there?
No, it's a whole different beast.
For us at the agency, it's a whole different beast because we have completely different
authorities, completely different missions between CIA and FBI.
CIA is all international intelligence gathering from foreign countries, foreign adversaries
that benefit American national security.
FBI is all domestic.
There are elements that do international.
There are elements for us to do domestic, but writ large, the mission is totally different.
It's really just about the disastrous leadership, the fact that talent leaves before they have
the opportunity to rise.
So you're not getting the best intel officers, you're not getting the best law enforcement
officers who become generational leadership.
You're getting the leftovers that become generational leadership.
So what does that mean for five years from now, 10 years from now?
That doesn't stop at us.
I saw the same thing in the Air Force.
I guarantee you saw the same thing in the Army.
One million percent.
But you also both have a political appointment as the top guy.
So you guys have, at the CIA, guys come from outside the agency or never there.
You talk about that with Comey all the time, he was not an FBI guy where some of these
other guys were.
That's always weird to me.
Political appointees from career politicians.
Yes.
That's very weird to me.
Our system is an evolution.
It's in process, right?
People forget.
Americans forget.
The United States has kind of been its adolescence.
I don't know what kind of a 15-year-old you were, but I was a pretty dumb shit 15-year-old.
I definitely was.
In my adolescence, I should not have been in charge of anything.
Our country is in its adolescence.
The democracy that we run is an experiment.
It's a great global experiment and it's working.
It continues to work, but that doesn't make it the best system in the world.
Do you think spy agencies are dealing with the same problem in other countries?
Yes and no.
It depends on what problem you're specifically talking about.
With the laziness, like what you were talking about earlier, with the percentage of people
who just get by to get their pension and the people who are actually doing the work.
Oh, yeah.
No, that's a completely, that's a very American thing, right?
I would say it exists in other countries.
BND in Germany, for example, has a horrible reputation among Germans, right?
Germans don't like their own intelligence service.
Not like here where at least we're split.
Some people like CIA and some people don't.
In Germany, everybody hates the BND, but in this culturally, there's just this inherent
distrust of intel agencies and then you have the culture of each country that dictates
how people rise up.
In the United States, we're a meritocracy.
Anybody anywhere.
Right?
I mean, I was a rural kid in Pennsylvania.
You earn the chance to apply, to be fairly reviewed.
There's still the HR processes are not efficient.
They're not perfect, so they miss a lot of talent and they catch some losers too, right?
But basically, everybody has about the same chance of being accidentally recruited into
any one of the agencies.
I mean, in places in Europe, in places in the Middle East, in places like China, it's
all about your family name, your connections, right?
It's all about the three schools you went to.
Where did you go to primary school?
Where did you go to prep school?
Where did you go to college?
We have a chance in the United States to at least try.
Most countries don't get that.
By the time they get there, the Emirates, UAE is a fantastic example.
Have you worked with Emirates?
We just remember you and I did.
Oh, yes.
What was that?
A thing.
Yeah.
It was a thing with a guy in a place.
I'll tell you later.
You're speaking New Jersey well.
What do you guys do?
I like your language.
So the Emirates, the Emirates only have, what, like, I think it's seven, there's seven families
of royalty.
And then those families have secondary families, cousins and whatever else, who are also just
given more than any other family name.
So you know that if you are of the ABC family, you're going to get something nobody else
gets, including opportunities.
So they're senior intelligence service, they're senior law enforcement services.
Those roles are not being filled by qualified people.
They're being filled by people who came from a family name and who were given the opportunity
to go to a certain course or get a certain certification.
And then the instructors at the certification course were told to pass the certain people.
They don't even have to complete their course.
They don't have to do the work.
It's like going to college and not actually having to show up for class, but you still
get the degree after four years, just because you need to have the degree in order to become
the CEO, whatever else it might be.
So corruption is such an, the problem with the word corruption is that it implies some
sort of injustice done for somebody's intentional gain.
We never seem to realize that corruption also just happens because people are just people.
People are lazy, people are favoritist, nepotism exists.
That's all versions of corruption.
Corruption doesn't always have to be premeditated.
Sometimes it's just the easiest way of getting shit done, right?
When I first started my company, I hired friends and family, you just accused Vivek of doing
the same thing.
Guess what basically every entrepreneur does with the first few months?
That's fair.
You know what I mean?
Did you give them a bunch of public stock though?
I didn't.
And how did I monotone it?
I don't know if they unloaded it.
I got to check that.
But yeah, the point is just, it's just easier.
Is it nepotism?
Yes.
Is it corruption?
Yes.
It's the views indeed.com to put out a fair advertisement.
And I didn't really know how to, you know, and I couldn't pay them anyways, the people
who didn't apply.
Exactly.
Yeah.
That's, yeah.
Now, interesting.
I mean, that's a great view.
I mean, I think that is really baseline corruption, what we just talked about.
The other parts are just sinister shit.
Sinister shit.
Like sinister shit.
Right?
But it's so sexy to talk about the sinister shit.
But we got to remember, like, we're not fucking all that better either, right?
We give one kid something the other kid doesn't get, technically corruption.
Right?
Yeah.
There's something about the power and the money that comes with it and the fact that
there are people that everyone can relate to because in the sense that we all know who
they are.
That's right.
And it's like, oh, don't worry you're fucking around and starting just by having a conversation
and stuff like that.
I mean, it's, look, you used the phrase a few minutes ago about, like, whenever there's
a gap, people are going to fill it.
Listen.
Got that from my buddy.
I'll speak for myself there.
Like, that's the thing I always am trying to check myself on because there's gaps everywhere.
Yes.
You know, what we know, even if it's not like some of the pure world of we're hiding everything
from you government that you talked about earlier, even if there is some stuff that's
not hidden, there's still all that unknown and it's easy to make those leaps and assume
the worst.
And sometimes, like, what's it?
Something razor, handland's razor or something like that?
Rockland's razor.
Yeah.
You can fall on the trap of then saying every time it's incompetence and, you know, sometimes
it's not, sometimes it is sinister shit.
But deciding which of those situations exists on a situation-to-situation basis, my God.
I mean, we're guessing.
We're guessing at best.
Unless you have a preponderance of evidence.
Well, yes.
And that's how you rule out guessing.
And that's the thing that's so dangerous about all the suspicion and all of the, my English
is failing me here when people start speculating.
Right.
Right.
Like, all, we have, we are living in a culture now where we're inundated with information
and all the information that we're given doesn't close gaps.
It creates more gaps.
So then people speculate, people speculate on how to close the gap that was just opened
off of the limited information that they just got.
Oh, my gosh, man.
It's crazy, man.
And then that gets momentum sometimes.
Oh, yeah.
Then we're in trouble.
Then we really lose the chance to be able to look at something objectively.
Absolutely.
We lose it.
And that happens a lot.
And you kind of can't win, too, because people will look at you guys when you're talking
on podcasts at CX, FBI, XCIA, and they'll immediately draw conclusions from that.
Like, oh, why are they talking on a podcast?
Who sent them here?
What are they doing?
And it's kind of funny because, like, you know, I can sit here and laugh and joke about
some of it, but I also know you guys, right?
Like we talk off camera and stuff about both of you.
I don't know.
A lot of stuff I don't know.
There's like a friendly understanding there.
But like when people are just watching on the Internet, they just see you guys sit down
at the mic, record for three hours, and then they don't see what happens after.
They don't see you take us in the back there and, you know, read us the riot act and tell
us where your official handler or something like that.
You know, Stephen might be a plant over here.
You never know.
Like that's what people are going to speculate.
And to an extent, I'm like, yeah, I wouldn't want to live my life just doing that all the
time.
That's too much time and stress over shit I can't control.
But still, like, I see where they're coming from with just you don't know.
So you're going to guess.
Yeah.
That's right.
Human nature, man.
It's human nature.
Yeah.
That's what I think about the UFOs.
I think if they came out and told us that the UFOs were real and aliens were here, we
would just find something else crazy.
Yes.
You're exactly right.
We would start being afraid of all the speculative stuff that's going to happen next.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
That is exactly it.
And, you know, once, if you're a person who put that out there and then you get feedback
and it starts to pick up steam, you're empowered.
Let's go to the next one.
You know?
I mean, that's what digital age has brought that on to.
People can get out there and influence.
I think we do a good job of keeping it very real, but there's people that are just going
to speculate to see what happens.
Yeah.
It's funny.
You talk about us being on camera.
So I have actively, actively been trying to recruit former intelligence officers to
come alongside my business because our business is growing.
We planned a 10X in two years and we have forexed.
We have between three and forexed every year since we launched, since I sat here with you
the first time.
Wow.
Right?
It's awesome.
It's amazing.
Awesome.
Great job.
Congrats.
Well, I'm not bragging because if you saw what it actually looked like under the curtain
or behind the curtain, like, it's not pretty.
Well, going back to our strip club stuff.
I like that.
Right?
That's good.
You all know exactly what stripper I'm talking about.
I should have been hiding the thing that she wasn't hiding.
Yes.
But I just want to drop a real quick plug about how awesome it was that Jim saw.
He called it a bush instead.
I kept on saying...
I'm 60.
I'm 60.
I'm like, Jim, there's not a...
I see one of the ones...
I know.
I'm sorry.
It's the baldest bush I've ever seen.
Christ.
Oh, God.
Yeah, that was brilliant.
But we have all of this information that drives more gaps.
I'm actively trying to recruit intelligence officers to come in, and what I'm finding
is what Jim was just saying, they don't...
They don't even try to comprehend the value that they can bring to the American people
they swore to serve in a different capacity other than public servants, right?
As a salesperson, as a public speaker, as a consumer or customer service person, like,
you name it.
People don't get it.
I know one of my biggest business mentors was like, Andy, if you don't get out in front
of a camera and you don't tell the truth that you know to be the truth, somebody else will
get out in front of a camera and they will tell whatever they want to tell.
Because you didn't take a swing to tell the truth, you are partially responsible for the
misinformation that the other people sent.
Now, which director was that telling you that?
Was that Pompeo, your boy?
You got that whole inside info?
That's a big part of what drives us, man.
We've talked about this.
I mean, Andy has taught me my value in this world.
You know, before, I tell you, and I went through a whole career and got my pension.
You know what?
It's shit.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
I'm going to say that to you.
You know, you guys out there that are holding on at the 10-year mark.
Your pension will be shit.
It's shit.
You know, so get it together now.
But he's taught me this in the last six months.
You know, we have more to add.
We have more value than we think.
We're always catching up as to what do you think I'm worth?
No, you're worth exactly what you put in, and we've all put in work.
We've all done it, and now it's okay to get out of here and do this.
Think about just the metrics of it, right?
Just the metrics of it.
When a company goes to hire an employee, a successful established company goes to hire
an employee, say Johnson & Johnson.
Any employee they hire, they have already done the math to know that they're going to
earn back from the labor of that employee no less than 300% of what they pay that employee
with all their benefits and all their payroll.
So if you're a $70,000 a year payroll, $70,000 a year employee, and you have benefits on top
of that, let's just say that you cost the company $100,000 a year.
Company already knows.
You're going to make them back with your day-to-day labor, $300,000.
If you don't, then you're downsized.
If you create more than that 300% of value, you get uptaked, right?
That's how it works because they know that when they promote you and they pay you $10,000
extra a year, right?
Now you're making $110,000 a year, but you're generating $500,000 a year.
That's just how it works.
So federal, man, government employees, if you're a military out there, if you're a federal
employee out there, if you're a state employee out there, the list goes on.
If you work for the U.S. government, whatever salary you take home in the public sector,
you could generate 300% more revenue for the company, and as soon as you do that or exceed
that number, they give you a promotion.
Which then becomes a talent issue because you're not, like you said, they're either leaving
or they're never coming.
Yep.
And guess what?
And that's the wake-up call that happened in 2016.
It sure did.
That is a great point, and it's turned to they're never coming more than they're leaving, right?
Because the losers stick out.
The people that don't have confidence in themselves stay back.
It's easy.
It's very easy.
So for 20 years, nobody's going to bother you and you're going to get your whatever it
is, 168, 74, whatever it is that year.
That's what you're going to get.
I can't speak on this with the FBI, for example, but you've talked about it on a bunch of podcasts
before where with the CIA in, over say, like maybe the last decade or something, they've
moved heavily to private contractors doing things, which also creates a whole litany
of issues you can talk about.
But like to me, like we were talking about the budget we see and the budget we don't
see earlier, I'm guessing like in part of the public budget, they put out, they say
some of this is earmarked for like private contractors or something, but also what about
all the money going to people to where the government says, okay, this is how we're just
not going to tell the taxpayer what we're doing, but fuck yeah, we're invested in this.
And we have all these guys who either used to work here or maybe even worse, never did.
And now they're working for private company, whatever, and you're paying them times a hundred
the money because they are the most talented people.
I feel like we're rewinding right back to Donald Trump circa 2019.
Is that what that was?
Remember when he went to war with former government employees who were working for private contractors
and he wanted to strip them of their security clearance?
Remember that?
The shitstorm that that caused.
And everybody coming out and being like, it's unfair and you're stripping them of their
livelihood and everything else.
And he's like, they have a security clearance because they had a job to do within the federal
government.
They have now left the federal government and all they're doing is using their security
clearance and their buddy-buddy relationship to charge the US tax payer more than they
need to pay for the same service.
And that still happens today, man.
I can't even tell you, the pension is shit if you're staying around for the pension.
Don't.
What people are actually staying around for is the pension plus.
They want a double dip.
They want to contract out immediately and they're coming back to us.
They rotate right back.
They don't even change desks.
Because they know and it's a common professional practice as unprofessional as it is.
If your tax payer, they should piss you off that you leave CIA, FBI, NSA, DIA, you leave
on Friday wearing your official badge, you come back on Monday wearing a green badge
that says that you're a private contractor, you're working for Boozal and you're working
for Northrop Grumman, you're working for Mantek.
Prices up times 10.
Your whole job is just to go back to your buddies and sell them on the same thing that
they were doing with you through Mantek instead.
And then they swing in some nice 24-year-old, recent college graduate who's happy to work
their ass off all day long because they get to sit inside CIA and that's the person who
replaces the retired person on their way out.
And that's the cycle.
It's a cycle.
It drives up GDP.
It drives up the economy.
In theory, it looks good on paper because now the CIA can carry the workforce that was
defined by the 2003 finding after 9-11, which required a massive increase in employees across
the IC.
So it's impossible to meet all of that employment demand that was set by the Congress without
hiring privately.
So the problem is, it looks good on paper because you think that once the ops over,
we can cut our man size down and save money.
Problem is, the ops never over.
Right.
There's always a new op.
And then it turns into a five-year contract because you have five-year money.
And then at the three-year mark, everybody rebids for the next five-year contract, another
five-year contract to sign in perpetuality.
In perpetuity, you have overpriced, overpaid personnel who make more money and have more
institutional knowledge than your internal cultivated internal hires.
So Trump was trying to pull the security clearances in 2019 of a bunch of these private people.
But wasn't he also, his administration, the one because he went to war with the CIA with
words and stuff, wasn't he also the one like kind of pushing us using private or did I
miss?
No, you got it both.
You're right on both parts.
So that's a contradiction.
No?
Well, he didn't want what he was trying to prevent against was the internal CIA people
who were questioning him, then getting out and becoming private contractors for major
and major private, yeah, for major corporations.
Yeah.
And so fundraising.
I mean, basically, the other thing, Andy, and I had, you guys probably heard us, we
were talking in the car about it, is those military guys and girls that come out, take
a contract job overseas, making money, so they pump them with money.
So picture your E78 coming out, probably making $70,000 and a pension of $35, all of a sudden
you're paid $240 to go away for a year, right?
So you're going right back into the combat zone that you were in, but in a different
capacity.
Well, what's happening with those guys?
Yep.
Those guys are getting really sick, literally really sick, you know, mental health, mental
health issues.
Now what happens is they realize, hey, this is great year one, might be great year two,
year three, they fall apart.
Now they're still at $35,000 a year pension, but they can no longer be a guy who can earn.
So now they've got to recreate themselves, right?
So the whole process kind of lets you down.
It's very similar to the contractor.
We have FBI people that come back in for, you know, I think it's asset forfeiture jobs.
It's our biggest piece, right?
So we'll bring on financial agents that did a great job.
We'll bring them back in as, you know, asset forfeiture people, making the same amount
of money or more, or even guarding frigging DSS does it, right, to have FBI stand outside
a door, right, for, but it's for like 170.
It's GS13 pay.
How long is that, you know, how long is that process going to be productive?
It's really sad.
You're filling that role.
It's really sad, talk about a gap that people don't understand, that your military veteran,
your state employee, your federal employee, they don't have options.
They work, they commit themselves to 20 or 30 years of government grind, which conditions
them to follow the routine.
You get up at seven, you drive an hour to work, you get off at five, you drive an hour home,
you get two weeks of vacation a year, you don't get a bonus, every five years you're
eligible for promotion of 5%, they get into this grind.
And then when they finally serve their term and they're 65 years old when they retire,
they've got no options except to now live off of their pension, which pays them $35,000
a year.
And they live in their same home, which was, you know, which is currently valued at $450,000,
but they can't sell it because they can't afford any other home, right?
They're trapped in a cycle.
So what happens is that what the smart people get in, they see it early, they make one of
two decisions, either I'm going to get out and I'm going to go reinvent myself early
or I'm going to retire with an eye towards getting into contracting and abusing the system
because the only way to get ahead is to essentially abuse the system.
Let's talk about China.
But first let's pop Julian's cherry with the salts.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, dear.
That's where all these celebrities come back with full heads of air.
All right.
All right.
So where do I position it?
Like right here?
So you want to keep it like an arm.
Let's watch this.
Don't look at it.
Look away from it and just like move it around until you'll know when you get it.
I can see the gas moving up.
Yeah.
Do I sniff in hard?
No, you just like breathe normal through your nose.
Holy shit.
God damn.
Here, Jim.
Wow.
No, come on.
I got stents, bro.
What if I die?
Oh, you'll be fine.
Remember, what was it called?
Oh, we got to go to the gym again, bro.
Let's go.
Secondhand smokes.
He got secondhand salts already.
Oh my God.
Yeah, there is for the family.
That's godly.
I'm not going to hoard this by myself, man.
I get it now.
I'm converted.
I feel like I'm baptized.
Seriously?
Christ.
You feel cleared out?
Yes.
They hurt, right?
No, it didn't hurt.
It was like it tingled.
It's a slap.
It's a slap kind of tingle, but it's still, yeah.
Oh my God, this is making me so mad.
It doesn't look.
Nothing about that.
That's not an orgasm face.
No.
No.
That's a slap in the face.
That's a slap in the face, boy.
I ain't doing it.
No.
Fuck that.
I can hold it back here.
I've got stents.
No.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
Don't.
That's a slap.
That's too good.
Anyway, China.
China.
They have strip clubs in China?
That's it.
That's aused question.
I don't know.
I've ever heard of one, but they do.
They must.
Might be illegal.
They're probably not called strip clubs.
I'll probably call it something else.
They got it in North Korea.
They do?
That's what Wally said.
I wonder what a North Korean strip club looked like.
That would be wild.
That makes me want to go.
Would you go to would you go to North Korea? Yeah. No, I wouldn't go. No, especially not now for strip club
Yeah, if you're if if you're an American if you're a passport a passport holding American with no other
Citizenship do not go to North Korea. Good luck. You become a political. Yeah, political prize. Really? What if you were come?
What if you were undeniable though?
Like what if they couldn't deny you? What if you like had some crazy mission in the CIA?
He's like we need to get this done. There's no what we're not leaving you no matter what
Yeah, that's not that would be a lie. Yeah
Go for that. Yeah, you're good. I don't know if you're that good
Yeah, the more says it tries to tell you that you're not replaceable the more you're like, I'm really really shit. I'm out
I'm Jason Bourne
So yeah, we've touched on China twice now already, right?
We talked about them with the with the whole American bullying thing and our strategy that's costing us a relationship that we have with the
World we talked about them with Russia's strategy
In Ukraine like it's like you can't talk about geopolitics
You can't tell you can't look at the world today and not talk about China
So it's just a question of like really where to start. I you know, I'll tell you where I would start
I would start with the fact that
They are doing all the right things
It's really hard. It's been really really difficult for the United States to successfully counter China
We have not reduced their influence if anything they've taken the Trump any presses good press kind of approach
And guess what we talk about all the time
China, yeah, if they were talking about China all the time that must mean that they're a threat that must mean they're doing something
Right. I mean Xi Jinping Xi Jinping did not go to the G20 summit
And he did go to the BRIC summit. Oh
Right. He's been to Russia this year. He has not done anything with the United States, right? Like he he is
intentionally playing the influence game and
Letting everybody else letting the wake kind of show, you know how the wake of a boat points towards the boat
Yes, I feel like that's what he's doing. I like that. I've heard that he also
I actually I think it was like Peter Zion saying this and then maybe some other people too
But he's so paranoid now because he has a dictator and he's
Got the death grip on power. He's so paranoid that people won't even go in his office
like don't you think like
Eventually all even the most powerful people who are hardcore
Dictators even when things are like trending in the right direction for them
It explodes based on the the size of their ego just being too big to fill the office
So, I mean I could make that argument with Hitler guys started a fucking forefront war
Thank God. It was him and not the goring guy in charge or we'd be all under a whole different horrible regime right now
Yeah, there's a
You lost me at
You lost me at the beginning of the holy so paranoid thing
I don't know where anybody's getting the information that she didn't think is paranoid
You know paranoid people don't do all the shit she didn't paint does
On public stages public parades public rallies. That's not what paranoid people do
Well, what do you do? How's a guy not gonna let people into his office, but he's gonna stand on a stage in front of
Millions of people in public when any one of them could shoot him to yeah
It doesn't make any sense a lot of the a lot of the rhetoric out there about China is is based in absolute
Stupidity just absolute ignorance of the culture the history a complete disrespect of of anything
Even remotely related to the Asian experience. Can you define examples of that? Yeah, like this this talk
Zion's a great example talking about this collapse of their population and how it's the end of China a
Collapse of your population if anything is like the adolescence
It's like the it's like starting puberty for a first-world country
Hmm the collapse of a civilization the collapse of your population, right? Think about it, right? What was World War two?
What was Vietnam?
Massive loss is an American population. It had to happen to move us to the next age
Right with the same thing happened to Russia. What was World War two for Russia a massive loss massive of population
Those are war losses doesn't matter. Do you talk about procreation losses? No losses or losses, man
China knows that it can't be a world economic superpower
Carrying 1.3 billion lives. It's not gonna happen
Can't it can't be done?
so
What what what people out there are saying that there's gonna be a major population loss and that's gonna undermine the
Manufacturing ability of China completely ignoring the fact that China for the last 20 years has been moving away
From being a human labor manufacturing hub. They're moving towards being a tech
Manufacturing hub a tech manufacturing hub
United States doesn't need
Huge amounts of manual labor. They need sophisticated machines highly highly educated individuals and their own
Domestic capability of creating the technology they need to manufacture technology
That's what China is doing Xi Jinping doesn't he knows there's no social worker
Welfare base that children have to take care of aging parents and there's a lot of aging parents out there with just one child and
Then all so there's gonna be a massive loss of life. Absolutely. China post Maoist China has seen massive losses of life on what three
Three counts. Yeah, the cultural revolution
Right like they this is not new to them
It's just Americans
We believe that there's like that life is so precious. We argue about it in federal courts
Right life is so precious
American lives to Americans are precious
Guess how much Americans seem to care about all the lives being lost in Ukraine?
How much do Americans care about the lives in Russia?
How much do Americans care about the bloodbaths happening with dictators in in Africa?
We don't care about those
Right. Why do we think that Chinese the Chinese authoritarian?
Communist Party is going to care about Chinese lives
They could be if you just look at anything imagine imagine a family of six people
Having the same resources, but only having to care for four people
You just cut the costs
Right without reducing the income and in in essence what they're actually doing is increasing their GDP
Especially with the partnerships through the bricks. So as they decrease their population GDP goes up gross domestic gross domestic product per person the individual
right
Contribution the GDP goes up as the population gets smaller guess what the United States has that makes us our number one the number one superpower in the world
high GDP per value per capita
What is the worldview of the average Chinese citizen pretty positive really yeah
The worldview the worldview of the average American is negative. Yes
The worldview of the average Chinese person is actually quite positive. I mean, what is the worldview relating to other countries and
Like they're developed like how patriotic are they to China and what do they think about the US?
What I think about Russia how patriotic are they?
So you mean so you can't be patriotic of another country of their own country
That's what I'm saying like so nationalism. Yes, that's wrong word nationalism is on the rise for sure without a doubt
I mean, I just think they're creating their
It's a very
Planned
Very orchestrated long-term plan, which is what we were talking about
For everything we don't have that we need instant gratification as Americans
They they are not worried about they are willing to allow a population or a portion of their population to to die off
I'm not saying it's it's not about killing them or anything else
But they are where they need to be in their minds, right?
So I think that's they don't really give a shit when anybody else thinks about if you think about the Asian experience, right?
Let's let's step outside of China. Let's step into Cambodia, Vietnam. Yep. Let's look at let's look at the Philippines
Why do they have huge families?
Because they assume
Children are gonna die. Ah
You need six kids so that we're gonna die couple along the way. Yeah, wow completely outside of the American experience
Yeah, right we complain when we can't get pregnant, right?
That's like a tragedy in the American society and trust me
We worked multiple years on our second child and it was heartbreaking every time that we tried to get pregnant and didn't
Outside of the United States they start having kids early and often
Knowing that they're gonna die or Thailand. They're gonna get traded off. Yep. You're gonna work. Yep. You the reason there's a dowry is
Because there's a transactional financial element of giving your daughter to another family
That's the reason dowries existed. Yes, I lose a daughter. That means I lose a farm worker
So I'm gonna sell her to her husband basically in exchange for four cows
That's what it is. It's the witness. Yeah, I take your woman. I take your daughter
We marry Pamela. What do they think about Xi Xi the people in China?
Xi Xi Jinping. Yeah, Xi they
So
It's hard Chinese people are like Russian people
Like you got to remember that this whole idea of freedom of speech is uniquely American
That's that doesn't exist in other places. Which idea the idea that you have freedom of speech in no one here has that idea
That's out of the table
Your line, what was it if you're under the impression that you're gonna have some free speech platform
I would disabuse myself of that
Okay
Good to know so in the United States
You can say anything you want about the president short of threat to life. Yeah, even I and you're fine
No, obviously you might lose your livelihood, but you'd be fine. Yeah
Like you're you're fine, right?
If you're in the United Arab Emirates and you say anything bad about a royal family, you're going to jail
You're going to jail
Like not no do-do no due process. No attorney. No nothing. You're going to jail
The same thing is true if you speak badly about the royal family in Thailand. You're going to jail
Think about that's that's not just free speech makes it so that you can say anything you want about your government
And it won't take it won't it can't
Levy charges against you. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's scary
That's that's not what it's like in the rest of the world
So the average Chinese person understands that they can't really come out and say anything negative about Xi Jinping
so they just don't and
They can come out and say positive things if you think about what we saw protests in China
Yes late in the cobit late after like late 22 late 2022
Yeah, and everybody was like oh my gosh
The people are coming out and speaking speaking badly about Xi Jinping or whatever right and then all the sudden the protests ended
He relaxed some of the cobit. Yes. It's one of the cat everybody was happy
Right. This is the thing that's so funny
We want to know what dictators understand
What's not just dictators what what people in power understand is that human beings have short fucking memories
We forget we forget so fast and the faster something else interesting happens the faster we're moving on
We just clear our brains. Yep. That's biological, right? That's not because people are stupid. That's just biological
There's so much ram space and we focus on whatever the rams focused on right?
So we forgot about Hong Kong's takeover when cobit happened
And then we forgot about cobit when ukraine happened
Right and all what china is doing that's so smart is that they understand
That if they make a move too fast or too harsh, we're going to forget about whatever is currently distracting us to focus on that
Xi Jinping has watched has been a student of this for a long time. So he knows
Don't unify the united states by giving them a common enemy
If you do you don't get to benefit from the chaos inside the united states
What did I say our mission was in russia create chaos not regime change. What do you think china's recipe for success is with us?
Let the chaos ensue
I asked this earlier in our conversation about
Putin and russia, but with china and ji now
Do you think ji
Envisions a world where he wants a war with the united states. No, what does that war look like if so?
No, I don't I don't think I think that's the last thing he wants
He's he's making he's waging war and winning
You know in his own way again the long-term process the tech he's focused on one thing
We are all over the place. He loves the chaos that's going on. They are they are laughing
What was the whole the bite I met with him 60 times 60 hours
He can't he won't even fucking return his phone calls now. He won't even sit or talk to me
He doesn't have to he's done exactly what he wants to do. He's got it there
They're they're out playing there. There are chess board that's out playing the shit out of us
And there are 10 steps in front 10 moves in front all the time economically for sure
Right and then when it comes to their own internal policies, they don't run into the same
hurdles that we run into hurdles we have
We have a government that values the individual they do not
That's right. They have a government that values the collective
There's there will always be fewer collectives than there will be individuals
So our individual nature our independence slows down our bureaucracy
Where for them it speeds it up
But if they're the main threat like to the united states power in the world and just like the gdp war and the influence war
I I still look at history and and it's so easy every time and I'm sure it's been this easy
Throughout history when other people are sitting in a seat like this and wondering what's going to happen next to say
Oh, this time it'll be different, right?
but
when you look at the at the order of power in the world
I can't think of one that's ever happened where power changed that didn't involve some sort of war
Some sort of loss or some sort of great victory for somebody like even the united states
Like we really came onto the scene
Through world war one and I was like, oh, they might be they might be the guys for those 20 years
Then obviously like hitler goes fucking crazy starts rising. Oh, maybe it's going to be germany
World war two happens we're the undisputed guys after that, right?
And well, I should say there was the cold war with russia and there was there was certainly some like east-west thing there
But you get the point like we're the leaders of the free world
So when when you say like oh, she doesn't want that in anything. He just wants to win a financial war
At some point the jig on that is up
If that's
If that's the direction it keeps going as it's going right now and he's chipping away at our gdp
He's chipping away at our future demographics. He's chipping away at all these different things and china's like taking over
How does that happen without a war?
Even if it looks different from previous wars where they're on a battlefield together
Maybe it's a it's a different form of a war now, but how would that not happen?
You've you've actually migrated from your original question
I have your original question was does shijin ping want a war with the united states?
I think that was your yeah, yeah, yeah now you're in the place where doesn't great power change require a war
Yeah, I never said there's two different questions
um
Does he want it versus will it have to happen and does china even have to be involved in the war?
For all we know the war that changes the power of the future is happening right now between russia and ukraine
Shijin ping just sits there and watches
So the united states is feeding nato and nato and the united states are feeding ukraine and that conflict goes on
Well, what happens if russia does use a nuke?
What happens if russia does cross a boundary with nato?
According to article article 20. Yeah
Of the nato alliance the united states is now
In a war with russia because russia crossed and did an active war with a nato partner china's not involved in that
But there's still a war and in the outcome of that war could very well be
The financial future of china
But they're not in the war and technically
We're not in the war with boots on the ground so to speak today today
So let's let's just assume for a second and state that way. Okay
How does that and it never escalates to like china or us putting boots on the ground?
That's enough like I still don't know that there's a historical precedent for that where the country who becomes it isn't
Directly involved in the you know what I mean historical precedents
I mean i'm a huge fan of history and i'm the first person to agree that if you don't know history you're doomed
To repeat it. Yes, but let's not forget that precedents
The legal term is one thing precedents in terms of things happen again over and over again is actually a cognitive bias
That's actually cognitively incorrect
But is it also that the very true what has happened in the past?
What has happened in the past is not destined to repeat
That's not true, but it does happen so often. It that's called that's called the availability heuristic
That's another cognitive bias
You're saying it happens so often because what's actually happening in your brain is you've got like five examples
That immediately jumped to mind about how it happened. You're not thinking about all the times when it didn't happen
Think about all the times and something happened in the past that didn't happen twice fair, right?
There's so many more
Because if they don't happen twice we never even bother to research them in the first place
Right. So is it true that there has never been a transition of power that didn't come with great tragedy?
Probably I haven't researched it enough to really know
right, but
It doesn't necessarily mean that in order for every
Transition of power there must be a tragedy that doesn't necessarily make it true
Maybe it'll be different. Maybe it won't most likely it'll be a blend of some of some of one of the two together
Right, but on the trajectory that we're on right now economists are saying 2033 to 2035
Here's the thing that's so fascinating to me again something that that the the parrots out there
Talking about geopolitics who haven't served a fucking day in service of our country don't understand
equality of power
Parity of power is the same as fucking losing
So when economists say
That it's most likely that china will supersede american gdp by 2033
But there's still a good strong chance that actually will just meet parity
Parity is fucking losing. Yeah
Yeah, nobody thinks of it that way unless they've actually had to stand on the receiving end of a freaking rifle
Or the end that people want to take down nobody understands that parity is death
Competition is the beginning of death. Yes
So I don't want china to be the number one superpower. I also don't want them to be equal to us
That's it and so if there's things that have to happen along the way for us to maintain our place that are
Uncomfortable, maybe even wrong. Yeah, I'm not talking crazy crazy shit
But I'm talking, you know some wars that maybe we don't want to be in and stuff like that that you know
I complain about a lot of people complain about and in some ways the human side of me always will
Maybe that's not why I'm in that seat
But you're saying some of those prices are a small price to pay so that we have the opportunity
To decide how things go rather than being on the receipt
Jim would you do something unethical to protect your daughter in two minutes?
Right. That's what I'm getting at. Yeah, so deliberate discomfort. I think is what we're talking about
We don't have that we're not
Nothing against you guys are beyond the generation but but kids coming up in the 1718 1920 entitled whatever
They don't have that feel. They don't they're not going to do that. They're just not going to do it
We there's other countries that have no fucking problem. No problem. They're still in survival mode. We're not in survival
We are not any longer. We're comfortable. We need to to teach deliberate discomfort
But you also like you can't you can't teach someone to know what it's like to be invaded
We're to know what it's like for your people to almost die like we have it so fucking good in this country
We simulate it. We that's what a lot of basic training is that's what I'm sure quantico is that's for sure what the farm is
simulating
When everything gets taken away from you, right simulated interrogations simulated capture simulated
You know torture simulated
Escape and resistance and survival right we can simulate it, but even that group is this big
Yeah, most people just go through life
And there's food when they want food and there's electricity when they want electricity and the water in their toilet is fucking drinkable
There are places in the world where there's a water fountain and you cannot drink the water that comes out of the water fountain. Yeah
Yeah, it's nuts, man. So so that's it. That's the thing if if we're going to
if we're going to
prevent parody
I mean not even talk about superiority if we're going to prevent parody with china
We have to be willing to take massive risks and do things that for sure the american people would deem unethical
On the way to protect the american people like what?
Assassinations are probably one of those things that's on the list
Blackmailing is probably on I mean for sure blackmailing is on the list for sure
Calculated killing is on that list even if it's not assassinations of world leaders, right?
We've got a mystic wars. Just think we have laws that prevent us from bribery. Yes
We need to fucking bribe if you're gonna keep up with that. You know what china can do without a problem
Right. Yeah, right like
Human rights abuses like there's all sorts of stuff out there now
Here's the truth of it
Those things are already happening on small levels with lots of oversight and regulation within our bureaucracy because those were authorities
That we vest our intelligence partners
But is it enough are we going to be able to keep up with that?
and this is where I mean as a
I don't want to like discredit it but as like a small example in the context of this
This is where you make your arguments about like the enhanced interrogation program
Correct, and like if a few people got a what's your line like a few people gotta have water dumped on them
Yeah, what what the fuck are they doing over there exactly right man like enhanced interrogation is a perfect example
We a terrorist can cut an americans head off
But we can't get them wet in the face
That's fucked up man. It really is fucked. How are we gonna compete? Jim's got the bucket out back right now
The smelling salts are just as bad
Smelling salts even second hand from you. I'm terrible. I think my stents just came out
but I mean the the the examples are countless man and
And it's just the the developing world what the bricks is showing us right now is that the developing world is outpacing
The first world well guess what we were before we were the first world developing we were developing
Right and now we've we've weighed ourselves down with so many bureaucratic requirements
With so much oversight so much regulation. What were we just talking about when we were just talking recently about how
Companies are so afraid of being regulated that they over regulates themselves. Yes exactly
It's stifled their entire
Saw that up close. We're doing that to ourselves one example of something like
Let's piss off the internet
Where we've been there for three let's get out of ukraine tomorrow
Let's just pull the fuck out
Tomorrow america is done with this
Ukraine nato
You're all vested in europe
You are all in this together
We will gladly advise you but american dollars are done american weapons are done
american weapons need to be conserved and rebuilt and we need to start using our own supply chain for ourselves
Because china right now
Is growing on their own
That that's a nobody would be willing to do that the outcry about leaving ukraine tomorrow
It would be an ideological outcry only. We can't abandon them those poor people. They've done so much
Pragmatically speaking
If I have to pick between the long-term economic and national security survival of the united states and the long-term economic and
And national security survival of ukraine. No question. Sure. So let's just ask that question
Let's just have that conversation now instead of seven years from now two years from now five years from now
I mean every exclusive community
You know, we see we see a lot up in in jersey area
Every exclusive community has the flag the ukrainian flag outside
Saved ukraine if you went in there and said tell me one fucking thing that's going on right now. No fucking idea. Yeah
Oh, well, that's what everybody's saying, you know, that's what we have to save
You know, what about the six billion that we can't find you don't know
I don't know. I couldn't tell you i'm heading off to st. Bart's this afternoon
private check
Not saying there's anything bad with that. You know, i'm not but i'm saying that that's how fucked up
our
power
But then the argument is also being there like you just gave the pullout example perfectly fair
But then also the example of like being there financially in the first place
Let's say and i'm not saying I know that this is what it is. I'm speculating
But let's say part of funding them is also creating a client state
Also creating iou's for maybe other people in nato because you're pulling more weight or something like that to chat to cash in in the future
When oh, I don't know
Maybe you got to keep the dollar or the reserve currency
Now the argument becomes and I can see this even if it's from the military industrial complex or something
I can see the argument being well, fuck. Yeah, we got to fund that shit because we're playing 20 years from now
We're not playing for right now
That's what I struggle with in my head because no one wants to see war
No one wants to see people die whether it's your country or other countries and I agree
It's still got to be like you have to prioritize your needs first
But what if our needs are also tied to the fact that that's going to be happening because we have a financial incentive to get it
So you're not wrong by any means you're not wrong by any means if any if anything
It's a balancing act of the two strategies, right? We went in with the second strategy first
Let's invest. Let's let's start winning
Winning approval support and influence with our nato allies
And let's let's have first right of refusal so that arizona state university can open in Kiev
Hurrah, that's the best success, right now. They get to major and what do you call it cracking pussy? Is that what it is?
Okay, then pussy so Ukrainian style
No straw so
So for sure, there's a there's a benefit to that strategy, but there's a there's a curve of diminishing returns
Right at first we go in we put in how much money we put in there now. I remember when it was I remember what was 8 billion
I remember when it turned into 16 billion. What are we at now? Does anybody know?
I don't read you know, maybe steven can you look that I don't want to get a wrong number
So whatever the number was at some point the number was five billion, right?
At that point in time for every billion that we put into it. We actually saw a reduction in roi compared to what we saw for the first five
75 billion dollars invested in what right what guys and what?
Answer it at best at best
We spent 75 billion dollars to buy a client state that has all of its own territories in ukraine
What do we do with it now?
Now we got to put another 75 billion into rebuild it to actually make it worth anything
Right, we're buying it's a it's a it's a money pit right now
It's a shitty house. It's a lemon of a vehicle like what are we going to do with it?
You're not going to give it to your kid
They also owe us too so we get to decide how it goes on the other side now
But what like that's it's like having a it's like having a six-year-old indebted to you. Yeah, what are they going to do?
Yeah, but mow your lawn, but steven. Can you pull up two maps if you can find them?
One map would be
Map of chinese military bases around the world
The other map would be
Map of united states military bases around the world if we could get that on the screen because this is one country in all fairness
I'm kind of arguing for you right now, but still like
You know when I was in sicily like nine years ago
I'm standing there in in catania and no one around there. They're all italian and then suddenly
I'm standing next to a guy who's speaking english like texas english. I turned to my girlfriend
I'm like, yeah, there's actually like a couple americans here. I start talking to him like i'm like what what are you doing?
He goes, oh, I work on the base here
The base that we got invading sicily fucking at that point 70 75 years before that
And you look at what we do around the world. I guess we're getting some of this on the screen now
Like, you know having ukraine as a as a
As a border country with russia type in map not too too far from china
Why not you know what I mean like that would be the argument
Why not we can set up fucking and we are I think we already had some stuff there by the way to be clear
But like now we get more now. Oh, let's put a couple rockets here or something like that
I'm just i'm totally speculating but like I could see where you're holding your poker cards and going
Oh, i'm gonna like this turn in river in a minute
You're not wrong again. Like I said, you're not wrong. It's about the return on investment
It's it's a game of diminishing returns
The no country in the world has anywhere close to as many overseas bases as we have nobody right nobody comes close
I do love that. So when we get one more
What's the return on that investment small shit?
When china gets one overseas base
They increase their overseas capacity by 25 percent when we get one new base
We increase our overseas capacity by 0.05 percent. Right. Is it worth it? Is it worth 75 billion dollars?
And we're now now all we're talking about is called direct costs
What could have been what did we get for the money we spent?
The second cost you have to consider is the opportunity cost
What did we miss because we didn't put 75 billion dollars in that?
So it's spent for sure good point
We didn't get anything out of it and we lost the opportunity to use it some other way
So technically we're actually sitting at 150 billion lost potential dollars
Hmm crazy crazy. That's nuts crazy
So and what for what?
For a for a potential base in ukraine. We have one in Poland
Right next to ukraine
It's a bunch of other ones right it's like the mole in the stripper's ass the other day that we saw right
It was like even the stripper lights couldn't hide that fucking mole doesn't matter. Yeah
Yeah, we got that
Oh boy, that's what's going on between china and russia right now. That's such an interesting relationship, right?
I'm not trying to steamroll over anything. I want to say dude. No, I'll jump in. You know me. So you got strippers mole
What's unusual anyway, you've got you've got these two countries
The enemy of my enemy, right? They they both
Don't want the united states to have the big club in the room
So they want to help each other. They mean they what six weeks before the invasion of ukraine
They made their long-term partnership deal together
Well, I didn't realize that was six weeks before. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, right before
They they they promised long-term cooperation between the two countries
Right, this is a big part of why I'm I I believe that that ukraine is a test case for taiwan
Right, it's a big part of it. Definitely because of that
But the the point that I'm making is that you've got two people two countries
Run by similar minded leaders with populations that are similarly
Similarly conditioned to strongman rule
They can basically drive whatever policy they want to drive. So that means they can constantly support each other in a very dynamic and adaptable way
Right now russia gets to potentially the the upside here the upside here
Russia gets what they want out of the ukraine conflict
China gets to test western resolve and deplete western resources
In the in the russia conflict while they buy time to take the taiwan target
And by the time they take the taiwan target the resources and the will of the west have been drained and tested
So the taiwan target goes even faster and now russia's expanded china's expanded and they're a partnership
Wow
Now we're sitting here in the end of september 2023 the next election is november
2024 when you were on on well now the danie jones podcast number 127
On I guess like march 27 2022. So that's a while ago now
That's when you first said yep in the lead up to 2024 election china's going to take taiwan
You'll see china make a massive mood on it sounds like you're a thousand pretty much talking about that all in on that
Absolutely, what does that move going to look like all right guys?
That brings us to the end of part one of this podcast with andy julian and jim
Part two is going to drop on the julian dory podcast next week on halloween day
And andy's going to get deep into his prediction on the china invasion on taiwan on 2024
Tension rising in the middle east as well as a heated debate on american privacy laws do not
miss it
Do me a favor go to the julian dory podcast on youtube hit the subscribe button as well as the bell
So you get notified as soon as it drops
adios
