So I stood in front here and say, Che Guevara, I'd like to talk to you.
You look at me very arrogant. Nobody talks to me. Nobody interrogates me.
So when I saw that I did that as a commander, I didn't come in interrogated.
I'd like to talk to you. I admire you.
You used to be head of a stay in Cuba and you're here because you believe in your ideals,
even though I know they are mistaking you.
You say, can you untie me? Can I see?
Sure.
Just before that picture was taken, I took my hand around Che and said,
Commander Emilio Pajarito, look the little bird. We tell that in Cuba.
Look at the little bird. Look at Pajarito.
So I got into a room. I stood in front of him. He was sitting in the bench.
He looked at me and I looked at him.
He said, Commander, I'm sorry. I tried my best.
He's ordered from the high Bolivian commander.
That guy looked at me and he turned white like a piece of paper.
I had never seen somebody whose face turned white. I mean, literally white.
It's anything you want for your family.
Tell Fidel that he will soon see a triumphant revolution in America.
And then he changed and said that you can tell my wife to remarry and try to be happy.
There's a documentary out there in that documentary.
They accused you of being tied to the murder of the DEA agent.
Oh, Kiki Camarena.
Kiki Camarena.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We've been here a long time.
You smoke cigars?
No.
You don't? Ah, man, I brought you a couple. I brought a cup of cigar for you.
I was hoping that we could...
Not even a cigarette.
You never, ever smoke cigars?
Nope. Nor a cigarette.
Really?
When I was five years old, my father made me smoke one cigarette.
Your dad made you smoke a cigarette when you were five?
He offered me a cigarette. I didn't want it and he forced it on me.
So I got sick. I vomited. I hated it. I never touched it again.
Wow. That's a good strategy.
It was good. He did that.
I don't know if he did it for that purpose, but we definitely accomplished that.
So to preface this conversation, I wanted to give some context to how I found out about you.
And that was through a guy named Rick Prado, who was on the podcast.
He was a former CIA paramilitary guy who was based in Honduras.
And another woman who was just in the podcast, Andy Jacobson,
who wrote a book called Surprise Kill Vanish,
all about the paramilitary teams and the covert assassination operations
that had gone on around the world since the beginning of the Cold War.
And you have had a legendary career and life.
So first of all, thank you for inviting me here to your beautiful museum packed with history.
And for people that are listening who may not know about you,
can you give me just like a brief background of where you come from and your military career?
Yes, I come from a small town, Cuba, called Santiago Espíritus, where I spent all my kids' life.
I was born in 1941. I went to La Salle School in Santiago Espíritus.
Then in 1952, Batista made a military coup.
My uncle was my secretary of public work.
So he moved to Havana.
My mother accompanied him to be able to set up the home for him.
So she took me along with her.
So I spent the first years in La Salle School in Havana.
Then for the second year, I was in the Havana Military Academy.
And then I used to live in my uncle's home until next year.
Then they offered me to go to the United States.
I wanted to come to school here.
So in 1954, when I was about 13 years old,
I moved to Perquium and Preparatory School in Penceboro, Pennsylvania.
That was when I started seventh and eighth grade.
And then I continued through my fourth years of high school.
Now, before I completed the sixth years of high school,
in December 1959, my parents had gone to Mexico on vacation on late 58.
So I went there to visit them.
I spent years with them, and that's when Castro took over.
So I came back to school again.
I was supposed to go to Havana, but because of the situation there, I didn't.
I went back to school and then I went back in 1959 to visit my parents in Mexico.
At that time, there was a Captain Cortez from the Cuban Army
who was actually recruiting people for the first operation against Castro
that took place in the Dominican Republic.
It was called the Anti-Communist Legion of the Caribbean.
It was composed of about 100 Cubans, 150 Spaniards,
50 Yugoslavians, 50 Greeks, and 50 mixed nationalities.
So when I was actually recruited by this guy as a volunteer,
my father didn't want to sign me the paper because I was 17 years old at the time.
So I told him that I was going to forfeit his signature in front of him,
and he agreed.
He told me that he would not sign it because he might be signing my death sentence,
but he respected my position and go ahead and do it.
So in front of him, I did sign my name.
I got the visa number 60 from the Dominican Republic.
And actually, on the 4th of July of 1959,
I flew a plane from Miami to the Dominican Republic in an airfield
that was in the middle of the city called General Andrew,
that no longer exists now.
And there, it was made by General Pedraza,
who was a Cuban general and taken to his home for a while,
taking a weekend in San...
Well, it was called at the time, Ciudad Trujillo.
And from there, we went to the Naval Base of Caldera
where we started training there.
It was 18 years old by the time.
Then we were training there until they were supposed to be
the first attempt to overthrow Castro,
a Cuban mayor, Eloy Gutierrez Minoy,
who claimed that he had taken over the city of Trinidad
and invited the people from the Dominican Republic
to support them with weapons and military personnel for training.
So people in the Dominican Republic believed him.
He was actually working for Castro.
We didn't know that.
So there was a plane who was supposed to go there
with a lot of weapons.
He was working for Castro?
You said he was working for Castro?
The mayor who said that he had this defect
and he was taking over the city of Trinidad
was working for Castro.
Okay, got it.
I want to thank every single one of you who watches
and supports these podcasts.
I would not be able to do it without you.
Please hit that subscribe button if you enjoy it.
Now back to the show.
The other two were Cuban Lieutenant, Lieutenant Rivera
and Lieutenant Rodriguez.
There was Roberto Martín Pérez,
who was the son of a Cuban Lieutenant Colonel
in the police and myself.
But we were ready to go in the helicopter
to fly from there to San Ysid,
the Air Force Base in the Dominican Republic.
Roberto Martín Pérez's father,
who was very close to my family,
came to the helicopter and said that I was like a son to him
and his son had much experience that I did.
So his son will go and I will go with him when he goes.
He got me out of the helicopter.
I really didn't talk to him for about a week
and then the helicopter actually landed in San Ysidro.
They got that C-46 plane that did belong to Batista
when Batista left Cuba.
And when it landed in Trinidad,
it actually was taken by Castro forces.
All of them were arrested.
The captain took my place.
I wasn't supposed to stay.
My mission was to put gasoline in the plane
and deploy oil if needed and come back to the Dominican Republic.
What happened then is this guy put a defense on the plane
and he was the only one who was killed on the operation.
The other people were captured
and my friend Roberto Martín Pérez
spent the next 28 years in a Cuban prison.
Then after that they moved our unit
to continue training in Costanza,
the san area up in the mountain.
When I arrived there were already guerrillas in there
that Cuba had sent with Delio Gómez Hochoa, a commander.
There were Cuban and Dominican people.
Of course he was put down.
Most of our people fought them,
the Cuban that were there fought against those guerrillas
along with the Dominican troops.
They were able to eliminate all of them eventually.
After that the operation was eventually terminated.
I contacted Hepatitis.
My parents went to Dominican Republic to pick me up.
I flew back to Miami in December of 1959.
I recovered in Miami.
I missed one semester in school.
I went back to school.
I recovered that semester.
I did graduate in June of 1960 from high school.
I did apply.
I was accepted at the University of Miami
for civil engineering.
That's what really wanted to be all my life.
Before that happened we learned
there was something going on somewhere
in Latin America to liberate our homeland.
So I decided that was more important.
I joined that later became the Bay of Peaks Invasion
so we were flowing from the Opalaca base airport
into Guatemala and then we started training in Guatemala
along with the Brigade 25 of 6.
At the time we had no idea what the CIA was.
We all thought that there were rich Cuban people
who have lost Cuban meals in Cuba
with putting up the money for this operation.
We had no idea what the CIA was.
We had no idea what the CIA was.
We had no idea that the U.S. government
was sponsoring our operation.
It came later on with everything.
Who did you think was sponsoring the operation
when you decided to go to Guatemala?
Rich Cuban.
A bunch of rich Cubans.
Rich Cubans.
They had a lot of sugar mills and things in Cuba
that had no money and they were financing this.
So that's what we all thought.
Now we went in there.
The invasion became related to fiasco.
A lot of people asked why was the invasion
putting hand with the CIA and not the Pentagon?
Because the CIA had no expertise in military land
and the Pentagon did.
The simple answer is it wasn't meant to be military landing.
When the Eisenhower administration received information
in 1960 from their intelligence sources
that the Soviets were planning to bring
offensive missiles into the island,
they decided to destabilize the Castro regime.
So they ordered the CIA to destabilize the Castro regime.
What the CIA did was,
they got a very experienced military guy,
a guerrilla warfare,
called Napoleon Valeriano.
Is this when Nixon was vice president
and Nixon thought he was going to win the election
against Kennedy?
Or when Nixon first,
I think Rockefeller dropped out of the race
and then Nixon realized he was going to be the primary candidate
in the Republican Party.
No, Nixon was the vice president at the time with Eisenhower.
He was already the vice president.
Nixon was the vice president
and then Nixon wanted to establish a paramilitary team
to go into Cuba to destabilize Cuba, right?
Well, I think that was the decision of president Eisenhower,
not Nixon.
He was vice president.
By all means, we all know that he did win the election
and the election became a fraudulent
because the major of Chicago, Daly,
was the one who committed fraud
and that election gave the election to President Kennedy.
But actually everybody knows that the election was won by president,
the vice president, Nixon.
If they had been honorable,
Chicago would have gone for Nixon
and that was the state that gave the presidency to either one.
So Daly committed fraud
and that's how Kennedy became president of the United States.
His campaign, the people who were running his presidential campaign,
they covertly went to all the preachers,
to all the churches in like seven or eight major swing states,
and they turned them from Republican to Democratic
and convinced them all to support Kennedy.
So there was these black preachers
that were showing all these pamphlets in support of Kennedy
and all the churches and they were able to swing the black vote
in like seven states to Kennedy.
I don't know what happened.
I knew that if Daly had not committed fraud,
Nixon would have been president of the United States.
The rest, I had no idea that was going on in there.
The thing is then they contracted this guy
who was a colonel, graduated from West Point, from the Pentagon,
whose real name was Napoleon Valeriano
and he used the name with those of Vallejo
and he had been very effective in the war against the hog in the Philippines
and he started training us as a guerrilla warfare.
Now there were guerrillas in the Escanbride.
So the idea of the Eisenhower administration was reinforced that guerrilla
to a point that they would be able to control a small territory
and declaring independent territory
and then bring a provisional government from there
and it would be recognized by the OAS and the United States.
That was the end of Castro.
So we formed what was called the infiltration team
or the great team or a special forces of the Brigade.
There were 90 of us, actually about only 36 of us,
entered Cuba clandestinely before the invasion
and there were several what was called black teams of 25 man-ish
who were specialized and received weapons by air and by sea
and also military training.
So the idea was that we would go into the country first
to bring civilians into the Escanbride mountain
and once there were enough people in there,
they would bring the black team to train them
and there was a strong guerrilla that could liberate a small territory
then the rest of the Brigade would come protecting a provisional civilian government
in arms that was going to promote free and democratic relations within a year
and of course it would be accepted by the OAS,
Organization of American State
and 90-some percent American troops,
maybe a little percent of Latin American troops
and that was the end of Castro.
That was the idea of the operation.
And was this the same thing as Operation 40?
No, Operation 40 was a part of the operation of the Bay of Pigs
with intelligence people who was going to go in
to work the intelligence inside the operation itself.
So that was the concept that prevailed.
Now when President Kennedy was elected president,
then he had been extremely critical of Nixon telling him
that he was not doing enough to stop communism in Cuba.
I had no idea that we were already what might have been
traded by the Eisenhower administration.
So when he was confronted with the fact that they already had people in there,
he decided to continue with the operation
but he didn't want an operation that was actually planned by Republicans.
So he decided to continue it but with a different concept altogether.
They disbanded the black teams,
they formed what is actually a reinforced battalion, not a brigade,
even though they called it a brigade,
they took our Filipino colonel out of the operational area,
they brought a guy from the Pentagon
and then they kept us the infiltration team.
We went additional training after December, late part of December,
we moved to Panama for additional special training
and from there in January we started moving to Miami infiltrating Cuba in different form.
There was a group that landed in Cuba by the airport,
international airport with their true name
and the cover story was they were coming back from American University
to support the revolution.
One team parachuted into the island, the Camargue area
and 90% of the team entered through naval,
infiltration through the coast with reception team
and one individual entered through the Guantanamo naval base,
held by the base and approved the chief operation of naval operation in there.
And that was the people that were inside Cuba.
So I entered Cuba in late February of 1961 to work with internal resistance.
Now while we were operating inside Cuba,
we were never told of the invasion coming in at all.
We were not privy of that.
When they decided to invite, we had no idea it was taking place,
we had enough explosive.
Talking about the Bay of Pigs invasion.
We had enough explosive inside the island
and enough weapon to be able to blow bridges on the way to the Bay of Pigs
and delay the troops coming in, but we were never advised.
By the time we learned that the invasion had taken place
and where Fidel already had thousands of people being arrested.
He got all his army going house by house in the main cities of Cuba,
especially in Havana.
They surrounded every building.
If you were a male in age of military age,
you were not assigned to a military unit,
even though you have done nothing.
Maybe you were even a racer in the Communist Party.
But if you were not assigned to a military unit,
they would pick you up and they put up in temporary concentration camp,
I could call.
They had baseball field with high fences.
They were housing 250,000 Cubans from Havana.
There was like Hotel Blanquita called now Carlos Mark,
who has capacity for 5,000 people.
It was housing like 5,500 people in there.
So it was really a disaster.
They actually were able to desarticulate internal resistance
because most of them were captured.
Even though later on, after we seen past,
all of them were liberated because they had no idea who they had.
But at the same time, they were able to desarticulate internal resistance
so we could not help the invasion at all.
So when it failed, a lot of our people were,
like I say, a member of my infiltration team.
Four of them were executed by firing a squad.
One of them was captured defending a safe house.
He was also executed.
Then they had five people from Castro's,
26th of July, who landed.
He had a personal grudge against them.
They were, after being captured, they were executed by firing a squad.
They were others who died.
They drowned.
All of the other died in training.
For example, our 25 of 6 member, Carlos Rodriguez Santana,
he was the first casualty in Guatemala.
He fell from a mountain trying to locate better play for training.
He was the first casualty.
His brigade number was 2506.
That's why they call Assault Brigade 25 of 6 in his honor,
being the first one who was killed.
So the brigade fought bravely the three days that they could.
They had weapons for only 24 hours.
The boat that was sank because we did not control the air,
we were promised the air support.
There were two air strikes that destroyed 90% of Castro Air Force,
but there was a last strike that was supposed to take place
with 16 planes that were cancelled by Adelaide Stevenson.
The situation was, Stevenson was in brief on the operation.
He was told that this operation,
all the planes that were attacking Cuban targets were Cuban defector planes.
And that's what he really believed.
When the first attack, they shot down one of our planes,
and Cuban ambassador Raul Rock could present in the United Nations
a picture of the B-26 that Cuba had that had a plastic nose
and then the picture of the plane that were attacking us
because they had one down.
They had the A-50 color machine in the nose,
completely different planes.
Then Adelaide Stevenson told the administration
unless they put a stop to the airstrike,
he would resign to the UN.
So they put a stop to the final airstrike
who was really going to eliminate all of Castro's Air Force
to convince the Stevenson not to resign.
And that was the turning point where we did not control the air.
They both was all the ammunition, every supply that we had,
and there was no contingency plan.
So they brigade flowed bravely for 24 hours.
The ammunition we had extended to 72 hours for 48 hours.
When we got to 70 hours, they were all out of ammunition
and they did not surrender, but they had to go into the swamp
and most of them were captured.
So during the invasion, right,
when you guys were initiating the invasion
for the first 24 hours during the Bay of Pigs,
did you guys know there wasn't going to be any air support
or did you guys think that you had air support coming?
We were in Havana.
We believed we were going to have air support.
And it did take place the first two airstrikes before the invasion.
Now, the third one, who was the most important one,
we had no idea it had been canceled because of Adelaide Stevenson.
And that was critical.
That was the airstrike was going to take out the T-33 jet trainers
and the 86 planes.
When they didn't take out that, they were the one who controlled the air.
On the first day when the invasion landed,
they were able to sink the boat, the Houston,
who was bringing all the weapons and ammunition and everything.
And there was not a contingency plan by the administration at all.
So where people fought bravely for the first 48 hours,
they took every single position.
On the first day, they were assigned to them,
but then when they were out of ammunition, they did not surrender,
but they had to get into the jungles
and then weeks later, leader by leader,
they actually captured over 95% of the brigade.
How many people total?
Oh, there were about 1200 of them, less than 1300.
Over 1100 were captured.
There were also, actually, who died in combat was about 76,
not more than that.
And there were other people who we counted like 100 and some people that died,
the rest of people were, there were a boat called Celia
who was able to live with 22 brigade members on board.
Now, we had in front of the Bay of Pigs during the invasion,
Task 4 Alpha from the Navy.
We had the USS Carrier in front of us, Essex, by the name of the Essex.
They had all the plane painted black, it was supposed to participate.
We had several marine landing craft on board.
They had several destroyers, they had two submarines.
The whole Task Force, but it was never authorized by the president to participate.
And as soon as the invasion failed, they picked up a few people and they left.
So this group, they were able to steal a larger boat
and 22 of the Cuban brigade members were able to get on it.
And they actually drifted all the way through the South Coast, into the North Coast,
and they also were picked up two weeks later near New Orleans.
By that time, 10 of them had died from thirst and lack of water.
Who?
10 brigade members died during that situation.
And 12 survived.
Then there were also, like I said, the five people that were executed from the infiltration team,
the five people that he executed from Fidel's personal unit.
There were several of them who died in the hospital with lack of medical attention.
There are others that died in training before they arrived in there.
But the actual toll of the brigade was minimal compared to their losses.
In the Bay of Pigs itself, they lost over 100 people.
But then there was what we call la carretera de la Muerte.
The death row where he was coming on the second day with 80,000 militia.
And there were three of our B-26 planes that engaged them.
Now, every plane had eight, five inches rocket-ish.
It had eight 50-color machine gun in the nose.
And it had each one of them will carry a 500-pound bomb of napalm bomb.
And they went through over that column of Castro troops.
And the result was between 4,000 to 5,000 casualties between dead and killed.
Castro never talked about that.
Now, we had a parametric guy who eventually defected, came to the United States,
and he wrote a book about it and he made it available to us.
He was at the other end receiving the window and the wounded and the dead.
And he's the one who told us that the result was, well,
he would say it was over 5,000 people that were wounded and killed.
And they had to send it to different hospitals out of the city.
They have to use basketball field to put the wounded and the dead in there
because they have no way to be able to deal with so many wounded and dead people.
Fidel never count those people that could die during the Bay of Pigs.
He only commemorate a hundred and so on of them.
So how long, you said it took about 24 hours until you ran out of ammunition?
48 hours.
48 hours.
So walk me through, what was going, how old were you?
19.
So you're 19 years old.
You just invaded Cuba and it's been 48 hours.
You run out of ammunition.
You have no backup air support.
Remember, I was in Havana working with the resistance.
I was not at the Bay of Pigs.
Oh, okay.
Oh, you're in your...
Yeah, I entered in Cuba a month and a half before the invasion
to work with the resistance inside.
Okay.
That's what I said.
They never advised us, they never told us of the invasion.
Otherwise, we had enough equipment to be able to blow bridges
on the way to Playa Hirona.
Right.
They quickly laid the troops going in there.
But when they told us, it was too late.
Fidel was already picking up thousands of people in the city
and there was no longer safe house that would give you safe passage.
So you were no longer safe?
No.
What did you do at that moment?
Well, I was lucky that the lady who was driving me around
had contact with the Spanish Embassy.
So here come Alejandro Vergara, who was actually...
His title was Prince and Propaganda for the Spanish Embassy in Havana.
But he was an Italian officer for the Spanish government in there.
He knew her, who was a Spanish origin.
And he came to pick her up to save her at the apartment that we were.
They were coming to be checking within the next few minutes.
So I went with them.
So we got into his car.
And as we were pulling out, there was a truck with militia surrounding the building where we were.
So we went to his apartment at the edificiosome of Yang.
Of course, he had diplomatic immunity.
And there were already eight people hiding in his apartment, sleeping on the floor.
That's where I stayed there for a while.
It was an amazing situation because his apartment was in 2B,
and my grandparents were in 1A of the same building.
So from his apartment, I could see my grandfather and my grandmother on my father's side
having breakfast downstairs.
So I tried to contact different safe houses to move because he told me I couldn't stay there too long.
And nobody would answer you.
Everybody was afraid.
Even if they answered you, they would not accept you.
Before people had the...
They knew or they thought we were going to win.
So they didn't mind taking chances of being picked up
because they knew we were going to be out soon after the invasion.
But after the invasion failed, nobody would give us any support at all in Havana.
So I was lucky then that this lady was framed with this guy, Vergara,
and he spent about a week in his apartment.
And then eventually they took me to the Venezuelan embassy
where I did seek political asylum.
So this Venezuelan embassy where he lives,
it was a big house from one of the rich people of Cuba,
the mestre, who owned the CMQ television station in Cuba.
And it was a huge house for a big family,
but not to be able to lodge 120 people in there.
So we were 120 people living in one home.
It had a big jar.
Can you imagine?
You know, there were fights after a while.
We had to make crews to cook and to clean the house.
And, you know, I slept in a room with 20-some people in the dining room on top of chairs.
It was really not easy.
I had to spend there five and a half months before they finally were able to seek
political asylum papers to be able to leave the country.
Was this guy not concerned?
Was he not worried at all about harboring you guys in his house?
No.
There is a treaty that is signed by all Latin American countries in general,
with the exception of the United States, Canada, and Dominican Republic.
He'll never sign that treaty.
If you are a national, you have to be a national from that country,
specifically that you're asking for political asylum,
if you're being persecuted politically and you can prove that,
they will give you political asylum protection.
And the government is compelled to give you a safe conduct out of the country
in a reasonable time.
Now, the Cuban interpreted reasonable time any way they wanted.
It's supposed to be a few days, maybe a week.
In my case, they hold it for close to five and a half months
before they will allow me to leave.
I had to leave there.
Then eventually they give you a safe conduct to leave the country.
So on the 13th of September of 1961,
that's when I left from the Venezuelan embassy in a plane
with another 100 and some people to Caracas, Venezuela.
And then I stayed in Caracas for about a week.
I did have contact with the agency there.
They provided the money for my ticket.
My mother, while I was in the embassy,
was able to save my Cuban passport,
who had a student visa on it.
So I used that student passport with visa to be able to get into the United States
at the very end of the month of September.
Now, the main thing is they contacted me again
and before the October month was over,
I already was going back to Cuba with only for intelligence purposes.
I made seven trips to Cuba after the Bay of Pigs
bringing people material in and out during that time.
And you were doing this by boat or plane?
By boat. No, it was all by boat.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms.
With only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee,
you get energy without the jitters or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose.
Cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot chocolate like flavor,
lion's mane to support focus,
cordyceps to help support physical performance,
and both chaga and reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about Mudwater is that it tastes great
and they took their time to find all the perfect ingredients
to develop a product that helps you feel better every single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments
as they believe the country is in a mental health epidemic
and sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals with depression, PTSD,
anxiety, and other mental health experiences.
So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below Mudwater.com forward slash Danny
and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny
and use the promo code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
It's linked below. Now back to the show.
So after you got into Caracas, after you escaped Cuba,
did the CIA contact you at all? Did you contact them?
What was the communication?
I found out a way to contact them.
One guy who worked at the Maikatea airport who was in contact with the agency.
And I contacted and explained my situation.
He was the one who provided the ticket and everything,
arranged for everything for me to fly out of Caracas for Miami.
So when we landed here, the normal procedure was they would pick us up
and take off to Apalaca for debrief for about three or four days.
It's sad because I lost there.
They should have given back to me, but they kept my Cuban passport.
The Navy gave it back to me.
Then after that, of course, the agency already knew that I was there
and they were part of the debriefing.
So from there it continued to work with them back and forth.
I worked with the agency like that.
I actually shook the hand of President Kennedy when he visited the Orange Bowl
at the end of 1960.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
That's when the brigade gave him the flag.
Allegedly that was a debate of fate.
Kennedy accepted the flag in custody and he promised that day
that he will soon return the flag in a free Havana.
He meant it.
I honestly believe that he meant it.
He was assassinating Dallas.
He darn well knew that if he didn't assassinate Castro,
no, he didn't assassinate Kennedy.
Kennedy was going to assassinate him.
It was true.
The president was planning the assassination of Castro after that for sure.
Wait, say that one more time?
If he didn't, Castro knew if he didn't assassinate Kennedy,
Kennedy was going to assassinate him.
Oh, got it.
Okay.
It was a matter of, he knew that.
That's why I'm convinced he was part of the assassination
of the president in Dallas.
We know that there was a Cuban captain, Fabián Escalante,
who was a perfect shooter and a sharp shooter.
He spoke fluent English.
We all knew that he was in Dallas that day.
Then after that, he was the second shooter.
Then he left for Mexico and from there to Cuba on private planes.
You don't think it was Lee Harvey Oswald acting alone?
I think Harvey Oswald was one of the shooters,
but I am convinced that this guy, Fabián Escalante,
was the second one, that the famous bullet that is impossible
to be able to trace because it was another shooter.
Now, at that time, the Johnson administration knew
and they had information from the bureau of the participation
of the Cuban and the assassination of the president.
But for national security consideration,
they had to cover that up because if they had to recognize
at that point in time that the president of a foreign government
was like Cuba, assassinated the president of the United States,
they had to invade Cuba.
They knew they were already inside Cuba for offensive missiles.
Cuba was able to sneak in four offensive nuclear missiles
into the island.
I guess that's why when Khrushchev knew that we knew
that they had been able to put in four offensive missiles,
that's when he decided openly to bring those boats full of nuclear.
October crisis took place.
Keeping missile crisis.
What was your opinion of President Kennedy?
I thought there is a different opinion from Brigade members.
A friend of mine here, he believes a traitor, he hates him.
In my opinion, I believe he was a young president in experience
and very ill advised and we had to pay the price.
There's no question about it and he was responsible for it
and he took responsibility.
But then I believe he tried to amend it and that got his life.
He and his brother wanted to eliminate Castro Rolcos.
It was something that they could not help it.
That was one of the major things he ran on during his presidential campaign
against Nixon.
No, he meant it.
The fact that what he did after that,
he opened the Air Force of the United States for the Brigade officer.
There were 212 Brigade officers.
I was one of them who joined the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines
for Benin, Georgia for basic training.
And then also opened the Air Force of the United States for regular sortie
for Cubans to join the Army, not only in 4G action
and all military bases.
There were thousands of Cubans who joined that.
They were called Unidades Cubadas, Cuban units.
We were training, like I was saying, for Benin as Second Lieutenant,
212 of us.
And then he started organizing the assassination of the president.
Actually, we actually graduated after 8 months from...
The training they gave us was called Special Officer Training Program.
They had to call it that because we were already Second Lieutenant.
But the block of training was based on the OCS, Officer Candidate School
that they gave to the charging, which are going to be promoted to Second Lieutenant.
But they could not call it OCS because we were already officers.
So they used the same block of training, but called it SOTP, Special Officer Training Program.
So when I graduated from that program in late...
I think it was like October, November.
Before November was in September or October, we graduated from the program.
I was supposed to go to Fort Hall over in Virginia to take intelligence training.
But before that, our team came to visit me in Fort Benin and they asked me to resign my commission
and to join him in a special operation that was sponsored by President Kennedy to eliminate Castro.
And then he told me, this time we are going to be the one in charge.
We are going to be commanding this special operation, either we win or we lose on our own.
They are going to give us everything that we need.
Last time we trusted the Americans, we did not participate in any planning of the operation.
This one, we were going to do all the planning.
He wanted me to resign to be his head of communication.
I told him, I said, Manolo, what guarantee do I have that President Kennedy is behind this?
He said, what guarantee do you want?
He said, what? You want me to leave the Army and go to a motel and be trained by the CIA in communication.
Tell your sources, whoever it is with the administration, I want to be trained in Fort Benin
in full uniform of the U.S. Army, being paid by the U.S. Army.
If they do that, then I'll resign my commission and go with you.
So it's only fine, go and see your supervisor and ask him if you want to take a special communication training.
So here I go and see Mayor Ángel Torres, who was a Puerto Rican in charge of our training of all the Cubans.
What was his name again?
Ángel Torres.
Ángel Torres.
So I went to him and said, Mayor, you know, Lieutenant Rodriguez, I like to change to a special communication training.
So he looked at me in his office and said, look, Lieutenant, first of all, as far as I know, there is no such thing as special communication training.
Second, if it were, it's too late to change.
You are going to Fort Hallow in Virginia for the intelligence training.
And third, who told you? Sir, I cannot tell you. He threw me out of his office, which was normal.
So we left Fort Benning, we went to Miami for vacation before we went back to Fort Benning to pick up our things, to continue on to intelligence training that was supposed to go.
When I received a call from Aurora Street, which is the Recruiting Center in Coral Gable, to ask me to call Mayor Torres immediately.
So I called Mayor Torres in Fort Benning and the first thing that he told me is say, Lieutenant Rodriguez, come to Fort Benning immediately.
We have here Mr. Musa and Mr. Flanagan to give you your special communication training.
So I enlisted two other members from the Brigade, Luis Sierra and Jorge Giro to go with me.
We all went back to Fort Benning. We were giving an empty building inside the military base and they got these two guys,
Mr. Musa, Mr. Flanagan from the CIA in civilian clothes, who gave us a month and a half of communication training and they assigned to us a sergeant from Puerto Rico Origin,
whose last name by the way was Castro, to do the translating.
Because I did not speak English because I went to school here, but the other two didn't.
So we had this guy Castro to do the translation for us.
And after we finished the training, we did resign to our officer commission and we went with our team into Central America.
He had enlisted the president of Costa Rica and the president of Nicaragua, so Musa and Chico Orles from Costa Rica.
And we had like three bases in Nicaragua.
It was a naval base, a commando base and infiltration team base and guerrilla base.
Then in Costa Rica, we had a communication training base and infiltration team base,
both with the full support of both presidents.
And we started training and the operating of that operation.
Unfortunately, President Kennedy was assassinated.
When you were down there?
Then because of the respect that they still have for Bobby Kennedy.
Bobby Kennedy was our direct contact with the CIA.
Our team had dealt directly with Bobby Kennedy and Bobby Kennedy was the guy who contacted the CIA on our behalf.
We received, for example, all the weapons.
We received down there came in huge bars that was towed all the way from Hamburg, Germany, like US military base, army base.
It was given to us in the ocean.
We had the M16.
The M16 was experimental at that time.
The US Army was still using the M1 Garand.
We were giving the M16 the original one.
We were the one who told the agency that this thing, whenever it got stuck in mud, didn't work.
The AK, for example, was much better.
They think it got stuck whenever it got in mud.
That's why they then added up that plunger on the right side that you pushed it in when that happened.
If you got in mud, they would push it forward and then it would continue to operate.
But we were the one who told them about that defective that the M16 had.
We had a 20-caliber machine that we were using.
We had a huge 200-sum boat as a mother boat.
We had two-sweep boats that were normally used in Vietnam.
They came out from being built in New Orleans.
We had a B-20 boat.
We have all kinds of armaments.
From 20 to 30-caliber machine, a 50-caliber machine and a 20-millimeter machine.
Anything that we needed, plenty of explosives and everything.
We started an operation doing raids against Cuba during that time.
Now in 1965, that was as far as Johnson put up with us.
At that point in time, he completely terminated our operation.
They sent an assistant to President Kennedy who was his assistant.
His name was Joseph B. Califano, Jr.
He came to visit the people in the army.
They told them on behalf of the president that the promise of President Kennedy to liberate Cuba died with President Kennedy.
And there was no longer a commitment from the United States president to liberate Cuba.
If you wanted to stake a major career in the armed forces, you are welcome to it.
But be known that there is no longer a compromise to liberate Cuba.
So some of our people left it.
They went to civilian life.
And some continued in the military career.
A lot of them became later on and retired as full colonels, lieutenant colonels.
One of them, Oliva, who was deputy commander of the brigade,
rose to the rank of Brigadier General in the Washington National Guard.
Upon his retirement, he got his second star.
So he retired as a major general from the U.S. Army.
And most of our people, maybe 10 or 15 officers, retired as full colonels, lieutenant colonels, majors, and some captains.
We had three brigade member captains who died fighting in Vietnam.
We have the picture, honor the picture here and the picture of all the people who participated in the armed forces at that time.
So that was really a disaster, unfortunately.
Then after that, that failure, I came back to Miami.
I have met my wife in Cuba when I was 15 years old and she was 18.
The first time I saw her, I told myself she's going to be my wife.
Really?
Yes.
I mean, I was strong when I saw my wife.
And she was three years older than I was when I was 15.
So when I infiltrated Cuba, I exchanged a letter with her when she was going to Virginia Intermont College in the United States.
Maybe three or four letters.
Then when I infiltrated Cuba, I went to visit her at her home in Havana, where she was at home.
She was in Cienfuegos, where she is from.
So when she came back, it was in early 1962, I went to visit her.
And within six months, we were married.
Wow.
So we got married on May 25th.
It's still my present wife.
We are still half already.
We are going to our 63rd years of marriage.
That's impressive.
We have 62 already.
When I got married to her, I told her I was going to leave the agency and everything.
I was going to make a civilian life with her.
But I want her to understand if there was something serious about liberated Cuba that I will go.
What did she think about that?
Well, she made a mistake of accepting to that.
She agreed to it.
She did.
So this is what happened.
Here we are.
We got married 25th of August.
I started working at a company called Ace Letter Service, one dollar an hour.
They were a company that did propaganda for the hotel in Miami Beach, which only opened about four months of the year during winter.
Only the rest of the year, the hotel in Miami Beach were closed.
And then from there, my uncle was able to get me a better job in a company called Tobin Packaging Company.
I had to do with Mitz and Sahamp and things like that.
I was making, instead of one dollar, one dollar and 35 cents an hour.
While I am working in Tobin Packaging Company, I received a call in October from Tom Klein,
who was one of my case officers from the CIA, and he asked me,
he wanted to meet me when I finished my work at the parking lot of the Howard and Johnson across from the University of Miami.
So I arrived a little bit at the five o'clock in the afternoon in my little car.
He had his big car in there.
I sat in his car and he looked at me very serious.
He said, Felix, the Marines are going to land in Cuba.
We need you.
I look at him and say, Tom, if the Marines are going to land in Cuba, what the hell do you need me for?
Right.
He said, well, you know how to operate a radio beacon.
That's a signal you can set up somewhere to be able to direct plane to a specific location.
They will get to that beacon and then whatever target, it will be very close to there.
It will be very easy for the plane to hit the base with precision.
So he told me I'll allow you to parachute behind a Soviet missile base near Santa Clara area
and then set up this radio beacon, a pre-located determined position we will give you
so that our Air Force won't hit with precision the air base.
Right.
I agree.
I could not even call my wife.
She waited for three hours in downtown for me to pick her up.
She finally got a bus to our apartment.
I was putting a safe house and asked for two other friends of mine who come to be three of us in the team.
My only basic training was they put an instructor in parachute and what they did,
they had different table of different altitude, which will jump from the end to three point of contact with the breaker leg.
So we practiced that.
High altitude, low.
Yeah.
One table will be this low and it will be much, much, much higher.
Oh, okay.
Close to that high in there.
Okay.
Close to that thing up there and you have to jump and do the three point of contact.
You don't break a leg.
So we did practice that during the time that we were there.
How high is the plane flying when you jump out?
I would probably be about 600 feet.
You don't even carry an emergency parachute.
And you only deploy that high?
No, no, no.
They want me to, when you are coming down the parachute, you're coming real fast.
Right, right.
Okay.
So when you jump from that altitude, it's about as fast as you're coming down with your parachute on.
So unless you are a professional, you can do like this, you know, and then let it go and you can, you know, people that actually walk, that's for professional.
Right, right, right.
When you're coming down with the parachute without doing that, you come at that speed.
If you jump from there, it will be the same speed you were coming down with the parachute on.
So you have to be able to have the three-point of contact.
You don't break your legs.
Right, okay.
And that's what we practice in there.
Wow.
But then, crew chef back down the day the plane was coming to take us to Parachute into Cuba.
The operation was terminated, so I was no longer working with the, I lost my job at Tobin Packaging Compact.
So I continued to work with the agency.
And then from there as when we joined after their operation.
What do you do, what do you continue to do for the agency for work?
No, no, after that, so that's when we went into the, into the army.
The army.
Okay.
Yeah, after I was out and in 66 I went to Venezuela with a special communication team to set up a communication system for the CIFA,
Service Informacion Forza Armada.
It was an intelligence server from the Venezuelan army.
And also helped them in communication gear that they had problems with in the, in the jungle.
When their special unit called the Casadores was fighting the Cuban guerrillas in there.
That was Captain Ochoa, who later was as secure as a colonel in Cuba.
He was the one who was handling the guerrillas in Venezuela with Cubans and Venezuelans.
Then I came back to the United States again.
Then in 1968, they sent me, at the beginning they sent me to Peru.
Peru, excuse me, they sent me first to Ecuador, which we trained an intelligence unit for the presidency of Ecuador.
At that time, at that time, I had the rank of captain as a U.S. Army captain with another name attached to the U.S. Embassy in there.
Then from there, they sent me to Peru, was a paratrooper unit.
I called the 48 Commandancia Guardia Civil.
There's only two paratrooper unit in the police unit in the world.
I think one is in Peru, and the other one is in Canada.
The only other police unit they have paratrooper capability.
So I went there, the Special Forces already left when I arrived.
They already trained them how to rig the parachute and everything.
I became an advisor to that unit.
I recall when I first arrived, the commander of the unit, Danilo Agaramonte, he asked me if I was a paratrooper.
Out of embarrassment, I said, yes, sir.
He said, how many jump?
I said, 100.
I never jumped from a plane.
I was embarrassed to tell him I was his advisor.
I didn't want to be a paratrooper.
So he asked me if I would jump with them that afternoon, Sunday.
I said, yes, of course.
So I called a friend of mine whose name was Davia Devin Senzi and said, how the hell do you put this thing on?
I said, you have never jumped?
I said, no, you're not.
You're going to get killed.
I said, bullshit.
I practiced already.
You know, the three-point-of-contact, like, do that.
So I went to my room.
Then we went to the dining room in my kitchen there, and we practiced jumping from different altitude.
So I jumped with them 13 times.
I got my win from the Peruvian Air Force for the Guardia Civil.
Now, I was supposed to be there two years, but within several months,
there was the military coup of Velasco Alvarado against constitutional president Belayunda Terri.
And actually, our unit was not in agreement with the military coup.
The commander of the unit called for us.
He asked for a plane for training, and he gathered all of us.
And the idea was that we were going to take over the plane with full military gear
and ask the force, the pilot, to drop us on top of the presidential palace
to regain the control of the presidency for the constitutional president Belayunda Terri.
But the army never released the Air Force plane that was assigned to us to do some training.
At the end, about noon time, no, about 12 o'clock at night,
the director of the police, General Barrios,
he knew that they had consolidated the military coup, so he agreed, went along with...
So the army that was surrounding us from the Peruvian army, they just went back.
So when we came to this country for vacation, they terminated.
Actually, our participation in there, because Velasco Badaus
are buying all the equipment from the Soviet Union, went completely to the other side.
So they stopped the military assistance to Peru.
Then in late 69, I volunteered to go to Vietnam.
They had me at a meeting with the chief of station from Venezuela,
who wanted me to go there and be an advisor to a 10,000 police unit.
And then they called me and said, look, both people want you.
For you to select Tom Polgar in Venezuela,
wants you to go there to be an advisor to this police unit.
And Ted Shackle in Vietnam wants you to go to Vietnam and say,
well, if you believe I will do better in Venezuela, I will go there.
But it's the same to you. I'd rather go to Vietnam,
because I've never been in that part of the world.
So they were glad to give it to me.
Not many people were volunteering to go to Vietnam at that time.
When did you meet Billy Wah?
No, it was later on in training.
Much later, okay.
Yeah, in bases here.
We never coincided in the field.
So that's when I bought my home in late 1969,
because I didn't want to leave my wife in a rented place
that we bought a house we just still have
here in between Miami Shore and North Miami.
Then I went to Vietnam in early 1970.
I went from Vietnam from 1970, 71 and 72 to two and a half years.
Now, the A&C tour is a year and a half,
which I completed like extended from another tour.
When I first arrived, I was assigned to Military Region 3.
Vietnam is divided in four military regions.
The I Corps that they call Military Region 1,
that's with the 90s, that's north close to the North Vietnamese border.
The second one next to it is Natrang, the second military region.
And guess the most important one is the one that it was,
the Serb Military Region of 3 Corps,
which is 11 provinces around Saigon.
And then they call the 4th Military Region,
which is where you have Cantot, that's where you have the Delta,
the Delta area with the swamps.
And then they call Saigon Region 5, it's not a region,
it's only a city, but they used to call it Saigon Region 5,
which is not a region at all.
But we were the ones who were running and responsible for Saigon,
with 11 military units around it.
The PRU was called Provincial Reconnaissance Unit,
started with another name many years ago,
and then they changed for Provincial Reconnaissance Unit.
It was military unit that was totally paid and controlled by the CIA
with our intelligence to conduct operation against the Viet Cong
in the different areas that we were.
We had PRU in all four military regions.
Now I commanded the Military Region of Region 3
and the one from Region 4 from Cantot in that area.
We had to advise them.
The biggest unit was the one in Tainin, with about 180 PRU.
The smallest one was one of the rooms side,
with about 40 some, 60 people.
We have different units, different side, which we paid, we advised,
and we tasked them with intelligence,
beside the one that had generated themselves.
Now my main objective or really challenge was to stop,
they asked me to stop the rocketing of Saigon
and stop the rocketing of the boat coming into Saigon.
At the time that I arrived, every single week of the month,
there was one or two, one hundred twenty-two rounds of Soviet rockets
who land in the Saigon area.
They always tried to point to the American Embassy
and to the Presidential Palace,
but they hardly ever hit it.
But it was a psychological operation to be able to say
that the United States, with half a million troops in country,
could not stop the rocketing of Saigon.
It was a challenge for the government to do that.
And also they were having boats coming through the river
all the way to the city of Saigon,
and they were always attacked on the side by other units from the Viet Cong,
called Sapper.
Sapper is like our special forces in the Viet Cong.
And they could not stop it.
They would have always an escort from Navy Sea World Ganships
coming into the river, and they saw the explosion,
they shoot the hell out of the area, and they never got anybody.
So that was one of my main ideas, my main target
that was given to me, a challenge,
to be able to stop the rocketing of Saigon
and the rocketing of the boat coming to Saigon,
beside all the operations I conducted throughout the region.
So were you riding around in helicopters looking for...
Yeah.
What I did, I implemented it.
The Army had a concept called pink teams.
What they did, they had a huge five hundred helicopters
flying at three top levels,
with no intelligence in general area where they knew the Viet Cong were.
Whenever they took fire from the enemy,
or they saw the enemy, they would drop a smoke grenade
and they would be Ganships shooting the hell out of the area.
And then they continued to another area.
What I did, I took that type of a concept and implemented it.
First of all, I went with intelligence.
They didn't go like they did.
When I was going to an area, I knew they were going to be there.
And then I did the same thing.
I went with the huge five hundred at the top level
and found them, or took fire from them,
marked them, then the Ganships would hit them,
then I'd come back again, and then we bring troops.
But they never did.
We bring troops into the area to pick up the results,
with dead people, or weapons, or whatever documents,
and we picked that up.
We added that to the concept.
It's what called Corp.
It's called Relampa Corp.
It's like rayos, lighting, we have operation.
For years, society has been shoving dumbass,
bulky George Costanza wallets down our throats,
carrying around old receipts and gift cards from 1999.
Exeter is known for inventing the first trackable wallet,
and now they're on a mission to upgrade the rest of your carry essentials.
Exeter makes sleek, sexy, and sustainable wallets, bags,
and accessories to help you get the most out of your day.
I use the Exeter Parliament Wallet,
which carries 12 cards plus my cash.
Plus it blocks wireless theft using FRID technology.
Exeter is simply the best when it comes to wallets
because they're modern, slim, sleek,
and they won't make you look like you're smuggling plums
when you're walking down the street.
In the vault, you can track your wallet at any time using GPS,
meaning you have zero excuses to ever lose your wallet again.
They have backpacks, cash clips, key cases, and much, much more.
Use my code DJP when you go to partner.exeter.com
slash Danny Jones for an additional 5% off
their current 20% program for their anniversary sale
for a total of 25% off your purchase today.
That's partner.exeter.com slash Danny Jones.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
So we started operating in that.
Now, I was lucky as hell to be able to stop the rocketing of Saigon.
The thing is, we never looked at the right place.
There was an area where they were staying,
and we never went there.
Why?
Because the water tide would come down like 15 feet high.
Nobody would be able to be and live with 15 feet high
of water coming up and down.
So I was able to capture in the operation,
I don't know what he was going out of that area,
a quack who was the bodyguard of Tu Thanh.
Tu Thanh was the commander of that specific unit
who was attacking the Saigon.
He was lieutenant colonel in the Viet Cong area.
And then this guy, he was very pissed off at them
because he was the only male in his family.
When the North Vietnamese did, when they were losing Viet Cong in the south,
they would replace them with North Vietnamese Army soldiers.
That's why it would never end.
Because if you lose 10 people here,
there's thousands of people coming through the Ho Chi Minh Trail
with different capacities,
and they have contact through all Vietnam
with different military units of the Viet Cong insides.
Hey, we need 10 guys, we need 5, we need 15,
and they would be refurnished.
So you kill them, and in the next 10, 20 days,
you have another 10 taking those people places.
It was a never-ending situation.
So when I arrived, there were Viet Cong,
when I left the North Viet Cong,
there was all North Vietnamese Army on those Viet Cong positions.
So this guy told us and said,
look, I was the only, normally what they do,
they are big families, Vietnamese families,
they go to a home in North Vietnam,
and there are maybe 5 males, they take 4,
and they always leave 1 to be able to attend to the family.
This guy was the only son, they're going to fight sister.
And because they needed him, he was a paramedic
in the Habac promise around Hanoi, they took him.
So he was mad because they left his mother and his sister
with nobody to help them.
He was not very happy with what he was doing.
So he was extremely cooperative.
And then through an interpreter, he told me,
he said, you are looking at the wrong place.
This is the area where they are.
I said, how come?
17 foot of water come up, he said, well,
they have 55 gallon drum, one on top of the other,
so that they solder high enough that the water won't get to them.
When the water start coming up, they go on top of that
on the trees and they sit there.
What?
And then they leave there.
Then when the water come down all the way, they will run down,
they take the 122 millimeter rockets, they go over the river,
they shoot into Saigon, they go right back
and go up in this 5 gallon drum truck up there,
and they leave there.
So imagine with that information,
plus he gave us the general area where the areas were.
We worked with him in the helicopter,
and of course we waited until the tide went down all the way.
And then we went in the helicopter at a three-top level.
They were running around, and because it was mud,
you can see his feet going different,
so it was very easy to find them.
So we started eliminating them,
and then on the 4th of December of 1970,
we had a big combat with Tutang himself,
his main group, near a small river in there.
And we were able to kill like 17 of them, including Tutang,
including the commander.
I recall because we went down there,
and we had people badly wounded.
I went in with one of the helicopters,
and I recommended the pilot.
His name was Bruce Bomberger.
He was a warring officer from the army
for a decoration.
He received a medal for that.
Because that guy landed on the heavy fire,
and he wouldn't move until we bring these three bodies
into the helicopter.
I pick up one, two other of my Vietnamese pick up the other three.
We brought all three into the helicopter,
thinking they were wounded.
By the time we arrived to the 34 evacuation helicopters,
they were all dead.
But we were able to disarticulate them.
From that day on, there was not a single rocket
to hit Saigon until after I left.
We had to continue, because they continued to bring people.
They didn't give up.
We continued to eliminate them.
Then I picked up a sapper.
One of the special units was doing the rocket
of the boat in Saigon,
going up to Saigon.
I found out that in his backpack,
he had a green electrical wire.
It was about 60 meters long.
Then we interrogated the guy.
Another thing we had an advantage.
A lot of our PRU were former Viet Cong,
that we had recruited.
We were also compromised to a point
that we trusted he could get this guy more
than the normal guy from the street.
Because he knew they double cropped them
and they knew he would never be able to go back.
Most of them, even when we picked up somebody,
some of them maybe knew him.
I worked with him in the past.
It was easy to work with those people in there.
There was a guy that was like a double agent.
They took him out and they killed him.
There was a couple of guys, army officers,
that were out there.
That was different.
That was a big concern there.
People from the Viet Cong who were being spies.
Our people never had the effect from our troops.
After we recruited them, the way we did.
This guy told us that he would set up a rocket
on a platform pointing at the middle
of a boat going by.
Then they lined at the line
60 meters away with an electrical activator.
Then they had a point of reference given to them.
They knew when the boat hit that point of reference,
the rocket was right in front of the boat.
Then they activated it.
What happened is there was a big explosion here
where the rocket came out.
The gunship would hit that area.
They were not there.
There were 60 meters on one side or the other.
What I did, I asked the commander of the unit,
Commander William, who was the commander of NAB,
to bring the pilot of the gunships.
They were the Sea Wolf gunships
scoring these people a bunch of the pilots
in one helicopter next to this area on the river.
I set up one of my PRU with a red smoke grenade
in the middle.
Then we measured that cable, 60 meters,
and we put a yellow smoke grenade
in the middle and red smoke grenade on both sides.
They can visually see more or less the explosion
where the people were.
From there on, whenever they saw the explosion here,
they should have seen out of the area on both sides,
because you know what side they were.
They were able to eliminate eight teams,
and they had no idea what was going on.
They stopped the rocket in Saigon.
That's what I got from the commander
of the Vietnamese Navy.
I got the naval medal of honor from him.
For stopping the rocket in Saigon,
I got what they call similar to our medal of honor.
For the Army, it's called the
it's the Gold Cross of Gallantry with Gold Star.
That's the highest that they give.
Then I have one of that.
I have two Silver Star with a six-pronged star
during my whole time in Vietnam in there.
But it was extremely affected
the way we run the operation with them in Vietnam.
Now, during that time, there was an Argentinian general
who visited Vietnam in late 1972.
In 1970, pardon me, not 1971.
He visited because the chief of station in there
was the chief of station in Argentina.
He was a very prominent general.
Thomas Armando Sanchez Bustamante
was the head of the First Army Corps in Buenos Aires,
number two to the president.
The president was a military one.
Alejandro Bustin Lanuse was a military president.
So they asked me to translate for him,
and not only that, they asked me to give him a tour
of the military region and explain what we were doing there,
which I did.
So only one day I spent with him,
they called me the next day and said,
look, General Bustamante went to see Ambassador Bunker
and he asked him he wanted you to be his advisor
in Buenos Aires.
We told him that you were still here,
but if he really wanted you, he could request you later on
from our embassy in Buenos Aires.
So I think when I went by,
I had several helicopter accidents,
I shot down five times in Vietnam.
My back was in real poor shape.
You got shot down five times?
My back was really bad shape.
I could hardly walk at one point in time,
so they decided to evacuate me in 1972.
I didn't complete it in my three years in Vietnam,
two and a half or less.
And then I flew to Washington.
I had doctors who see me and everything.
And then they told me that the general
have asked me by name to go to Buenos Aires
to be his personal advisor at the First Army Corps.
And they were interested in me to go because
he was the highest, after the President was number two guy
and they didn't have anybody in that position.
They created a slot for me.
And they said, okay, we're going to give you a waiver
for your back problem.
You have to go to Panama for checkup every six months.
And you can take the family with you.
That's the first time I ever take my family with me.
So my wife and I and my two kids,
we all flew to Buenos Aires in the late 1972.
And actually what they did now before that what happened
before Christmas time, when I went to Miami,
I was called by Ted Shockley and told me not to fly into Miami
because there was a Cuban intelligence officer
who defected in Paris and told them that his body
having drink with him told him that he was involved
in an operation to hijack the plane of the Cuban
involved in the assassination of Che Guevara.
He had no idea who it was.
To hijack the plane of the Cuban who was involved
in the assassination of Che Guevara.
So not to fly into Miami, going anywhere else,
but not to Miami.
Meaning your plane?
Yeah, the commercial plane.
So what I did is they told me not to fly into Miami.
So I flew into Atlanta, Georgia.
I rented a car.
I drove to Miami from there.
Holy shit.
I spent the 24th of December with my wife.
I spent New Year's Eve with her.
We call her Reyes Magdon the 6th of December for the kid
beside the Santa Claus.
And then on the 7th, I drove back to Atlanta.
I had a plane that leave Atlanta, Houston, Houston,
San Francisco.
And they had to wait like 4 hours, 5 hours in San Francisco
to get another plane to go to Hawaii, Vietnam,
Hong Kong, Hawaii, whatever.
I had a cousin who lives there.
She's still there.
She's married to another Cuban here, there in Atlanta.
So she came to say goodbye at the airport.
So I found there was a plane that leave one hour later.
So instead of waiting 5 hours in San Francisco,
I decided only wait 4.
Stayed one more hour here with my cousin.
So I changed plane.
Instead of plane, I went from Atlanta to Houston.
I got a plane in Atlanta, Dallas, San Francisco,
one hour later.
So I spent with her.
So when I got to Vietnam that day,
nobody was waiting for me at the airport.
So I took a lambreta.
I went to the Duke Hotel, the CIA Hotel.
I changed.
I got into the embassy.
And the first guy would look at me and say,
what are you doing here?
I said, hey, I supposed to arrive today.
And nobody was waiting for me.
I said, no, no, no.
Your plane that we had in record have been hijacked to Cuba.
And we were finding out what the hell we do to get you out of Cuba.
What?
We were very concerned.
That's why when me and my wife went to Argentina,
they took our passport, my wife and I,
and they took it to the State Department.
They had all the details right, my name and everything.
But then place of birth, they put Colorado instead of Cuba.
So in case our plane was hijacked,
they would claim me as US citizen born in the United States.
Wow.
I still have a cube, a copy at home of the passport
that said place of birth, Colorado.
That's insane.
And then when I came back, of course,
I tell people, I was a US citizen born here for less than a year.
Born in Colorado.
Born in Colorado.
Colorado.
So what year was that plane hijacked?
That was in December from 1971 to 1972.
And it was hijacked and it was flown to Cuba?
Yeah.
And whatever happened, whatever happened,
did they catch the person who hijacked it?
Do you know what happened with that?
No, nothing.
The face of hijacked was probably a member of the Cuban intelligence.
He had no problem.
And what about the passengers on board?
Were they all fine?
They probably returned everybody.
The interest was having.
They were only looking for you.
It wasn't there.
That's why I always trouble.
I mean, imagine this.
What happened was the Cuban had access to the airline,
to knowing what flight was going.
If I had not done that, and I would have left from Miami,
they've not changed to change planes.
They would have probably hijacked the plane from Miami.
Because they were able to, if they were able to find out
that I was flying from Atlanta, they would never believe,
but they would definitely find out that I was flying from Miami.
Right, right, right.
What saved me, what saved me was that I went to Atlanta
and I changed plane in Atlanta to stay with her.
Otherwise, I had no reason to change plane in Miami.
I was leaving the same plane and they probably were taking me.
That's.
So I was really lucky during that time.
Did that make you paranoid at all after that?
No.
No, I believe in destiny.
You believe in destiny?
Oh, yes.
Look, when I was in Vietnam, Ted Shockley,
my boss used to tell people that I had a death wish.
Yeah.
Because the way I conducted myself in operation, believe me,
I am not brave like that.
It's not a death wish.
God gave me the conviction that I wasn't going to be hit.
I was convinced.
And no matter what I did, I knew that.
Look, went down five time helicopter.
My helicopter was shot with bullet,
regaled with bullet 40 times at least during the time.
I flew a 300 mission in Vietnam.
40 times at least.
I never touched me.
I had a bullet.
I have in my home a fire extinguisher from a helicopter
number 38.
The bullet came through close to my leg.
It hit inside the ferra fire extinguisher.
And boy, it was white smoke all over the place in a helicopter.
Everybody thought we were shot down.
I was in El Salvador.
Of course, we fly with no door, so we took the trim out
and on the air it came down.
I kept the fire extinguisher in my home with the bullet inside
the fire extinguisher there.
That's incredible.
I just knew it wasn't going to happen to me.
And it didn't.
That's super interesting.
I mean, do you think that was the same attitude
that a lot of people you worked with had?
Or did you...
I think that was unique of me.
It was unique to you.
There was a conviction that it's not something that...
It's hard to explain.
I knew.
I knew.
Beyond doubt.
That's why there shouldn't have made it come out,
but buddy, I didn't mind.
I know it wasn't going to hit me.
I didn't.
Wow.
Ever.
I don't have one bullet in my body.
I have people wounded next to me.
Not to helicopter in different places,
but I never got a bullet in myself.
But in our bravery, it was the conviction
I knew it wasn't going to happen.
It didn't.
Were there any moments that you can think of
in all of your tours, everything that you did
that you thought you might not make it?
What was the closest you ever came to death?
Not to death.
Well, you could say yes, in Cuba.
That time that I was supposed to leave,
you know, the day when they got the house
and everybody was executed.
Actually, we went to the...
And the boat wasn't coming that day.
It didn't come that day.
We had to return back.
On the way back, there were six of us in the car.
There was the driver,
who later was the owner of the...
Erasmus Martini was the owner
of the Super Mercado Presidenta here in Miami.
We had three members of the Cuban Instituto de Petróleo.
The Instituto de Petróleo in Cuba,
who had just performed a sabotage
and destroyed 15 oil trucks.
Fuel trucks.
I mean, they were looking for them for execution.
All three of them.
Two of them, I think, they were drivers.
One were drivers.
The other one were security for the area.
They blew up that.
And then one guy came from the guerrilla,
from the Escan Drive, called Diosdado.
He's the only one in the group who had a revolver
with five bullets.
And he had...
One thing was missing.
It was shot during combat.
It was a type of...
So we are coming back one o'clock in the morning
in this car.
And we make a turn.
There is a stop of Castro's troop in there.
A checkpoint.
Never have...
Never was there before.
One o'clock in the morning.
We were coming like 120, 140 kilometers an hour.
And the driver said,
Why do I have to say stop?
I just came to my mind.
I had a big envelope with name-written clearance
in black ink.
It was for the CIA guy in Miami.
So I put it in here.
Hide it in here.
And we stopped beyond the checkpoint.
The speed that we went.
I told people,
Look, lower the windows.
Take the safety out.
And if they ask for our documentation,
let's try to throw the door to them.
Try to take a weapon from them.
That's the only thing we can do.
But then on the way by,
I put my head out and say,
Compañero, pasa algo.
I mean, real strong.
And they look at me and say,
No, compañero, no pasa nada, siga.
And then they let us go.
What does that mean?
Yeah, they saw six men inside a vehicle.
And the car was a Chevrolet from 1958 black,
which is similar to the one that the G2,
their intelligence service used.
So the language that I use,
the language that they use.
So they saw six men inside.
So I guess they probably thought two things.
Maybe they are one of us.
If they are not,
and they are stopped,
maybe they are machine,
and they're going to kill us.
So they told us to continue.
Now when I came back on this following two days,
which I finally,
the three people from the petroleum thing,
they declined to be taken out by boat.
They all went to different embassies.
When I got to the Venezuelan embassy,
one of them was in the Venezuelan embassy.
They didn't want to go through something like this again.
Wow.
Let me tell you,
if they had picked us up there,
we would have been executed by firing squad.
Definitely,
because there were three people from the Escambrite,
one people from the Escambrite,
three who blew all of this oil
for the Cuban government.
It was made from the infiltration thing.
Wow.
So that was early on.
That was tremendously.
That was when you were very young,
you encountered.
So you had this.
When I was in Vietnam,
I was in Bolivia,
I was 26.
I was less than 30 years old at that time.
Right.
But that experience early in Cuba,
kind of like primed you
for all the stuff that you did after.
So you had experienced,
you'd come close,
you'd have a lot of near-death experiences
before that,
early on in your life,
when you were very young
and you'd experienced lots of death early.
Yeah.
Now, this after Vietnam,
I came back from Vietnam,
there was a,
well, it was in Argentina.
Then when I came back from Argentina,
it was an eventual tour in the Caribbean.
I was what they call
Island Hopper.
Now, Miami is the only
CIA base called Station.
You know, the CIA,
when they have people in cities,
they don't call it a station.
A station overseas, all of them.
All these are called a base,
like a New York base,
Chicago base, CIA people,
San Francisco Bay, Los Angeles base.
Those are bases.
Why do they call Miami a station?
Because Miami is the only one
who run a station out of here.
For example, there is no chief of a station
for the Caribbean.
So they have one chief of a station
who operates out of Miami.
Got it.
They are different in different Bahamas.
They are different people
that we don't have enough people
or intelligence to have a personnel
in one embassy in those places.
So they run our intelligence capability
from the Miami area.
So I do the responsibility
of one of those.
I had to take out the Dominique,
a photo of France,
all of those on the island.
We had the agent that I had to attend to.
And it was really uneventful.
You know, it was very boring doing.
The only thing that later on
I learned was kind of interesting was
I was assigned to evaluate a lady
in Dominique,
in Rosso,
the city of Rosso in Dominique.
And she was a school teacher
or something,
and a very bright,
a very black young woman.
I talked to her.
We invited her for dinner.
I gave her a very, very high report about her.
When they invaded Granada,
I learned that she had become
the prime minister of Dominique.
Eugene Charlie.
And she was who was who headed,
she was the head of the coalition
who attacked,
even though the United States
was behind the whole thing,
but she was the head of the coalition
who attacked Granada.
Eugene Charlie from Dominique.
I was the one who evaluated her
for the agency.
And what did you do to evaluate her?
No, no, I never even talked to her.
I just learned that.
Oh, you just learned it?
Yeah.
I felt cheap.
I was the one who gave good war
about her to the agency.
And apparently it came through
and they made her
prime minister of Dominique.
So you weren't really into the spy stuff?
No.
You were more into the combat,
the hand-to-hand, the guerrilla stuff?
In the paramilitary part of the agency.
For example, after that,
I had my backwax in pretty poor shape.
Even today, I have lost,
I can show you my driver license.
It's said that I have five feet,
11 inches high.
If I have five, six now, it's much.
I have lost so many from the accident,
the grinding from the helicopter.
I have missed disc.
I have one vertebra, which is 50%
embedded into the other one.
And the nerve goes 90 degrees and goes down.
Ooh.
The radiologist took a look at that and said,
look, if I don't see you in front of me,
I will look you in wheelchair.
You shouldn't be walking.
Now, I can't see it.
I can go in bed fine.
I cannot stand or walk.
It's tremendous pain in my back.
That's what I have.
Electric, when I give touring here,
I have an electric little car like over there.
Oh, really?
Because for me to walk is torture.
Well, I mean, the body is one thing,
but your mind is still sharp.
You still got it together pretty well.
For someone who's been through much of you out.
Once I finished that, I did a couple of interesting things.
The first time that saved my life was,
I was still with the agents in 75.
I had yet been operated from a hernia
in the Hyalia Hospital.
I was in my home recovering.
I got a call from Washington and said,
look, you have to come immediately.
We want you to go to Lebanon.
I said, look, I just been operated.
I'm just second day in the house.
I don't care.
Put something around, but you have to go.
And don't tell anything to our chief of station there.
No, he's the boss.
He's in Washington.
So the guy who was chief of station here,
I told him, I said, look, you know,
I was trying to, I was planning to retire then.
I'm going to go to the kids to try to find a job.
Okay, fine.
So I flew to Washington.
They instructed me to go to New York,
meet this guy and go with him to Lebanon.
What happened is the chief of intelligence,
the Lebanese Army wanted to set up some infiltration.
The intelligence team to penetrate the Hezbollah.
And since I have worked in infiltration team
and the experience and all of that,
they wanted me to help him with that.
And then they introduced me to this guy,
which is well-known.
He died already.
He was an armed dealer.
He represented that time call industry for Lebanon Army.
Really?
He was the representative of them.
But a lot of people call him the merchant of death.
And he had his own private plane in Portugal,
full with Soviet military equipment.
It was for Christian Guerrilla,
but they were Soviet material that he bought in Poland.
It was, he just bought the plane from American Airlines,
from Pan American Airlines.
He's like Victor Boot.
So here we are.
You know, we had dinner with him,
with his mother and brothers in New York.
And the following day we flew in TWA first class to Lisbon.
Lisbon at that time was communist.
Portugal was communist at that time.
So when we landed there,
oh, he didn't even have a visa or anything like that
in his passport,
but he had a roll of $100 bill, a huge one.
He started giving tips to the people at the airport.
About 10 minutes later,
we had the head of the airport with us.
You know, I don't know how much money he gave the guy.
The guy drove us in his Jeep all the way to his plane.
Now his plane was painted Pan American,
but he didn't have the name Pan American.
But he tells yet.
Detail was November 7, 11, Papa Alpha,
PA was in Pan American.
That was the tail of the plane.
He had an American captain.
He had a Cuban navigator called Garabito.
Last name was Garabito.
When we took off, and the plane was loaded with AK-47,
RPGs, ammunition.
Oh, God.
But it was for the Christian guerrillas.
It was for the right people in Lebanon.
It was for the right people.
So we were supposed to arrive
and there about eight o'clock at night,
and the army was supposed to be waiting for us.
These pilots grew up with the GMT time,
and we arrived an hour earlier.
I remember landing in Beirut.
It was a beautiful view of Beirut at night.
You know, I landed from the cockpit.
I remember he calling the tower and saying,
this was a Mea Middle East airline
contracted the plane by the military
to go to the military ramp.
So they took us to the military ramp.
Now when we arrived there,
the authority, which are Muslim at the airport,
they didn't saw a Middle East airline plane.
They saw it's an American airline in there.
So that's where I learned that it worked
Sharamuta main SOB in Arabic.
Because Sarki was hanging at the door inside the plane.
The authority on the other side was trying to open the door
and they were calling Sharamuta back and forth.
One hour.
I was sitting there.
I looked at the back and see all of that weapons and said,
I didn't tell my boss in Miami.
I was thinking what's going to happen.
Now we waited for one hour.
The army arrived.
They threw all the muscle out of the area.
We didn't even go through customs.
They unloaded the plane with military trucks
and then we went to the city.
I had meeting with the head of intelligence.
We started trying to organize that.
But then I spent about a month in Lebanon.
The day that the war broke completed,
they closed the airport.
I left on the last plane.
It was a goldfair plane from Lebanon to London.
Wow.
The last day in there.
I never got to go back and follow up on that training.
It was because the war already broke to a point
that there was no impossible to do that.
So I came back and went back to Miami.
Then in 1973 I tried to go to El Salvador
because I knew that my helicopter concept
would be helpful in El Salvador
knowing the guerrilla in El Salvador.
I even went to El Salvador at the time
with the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
Fidel Chavez-Bena through which a close friend of his
was a millionaire.
Nothing came through.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
The older I get, the more I'm prioritizing my health.
The goal is to keep my mind sharp and my body strong.
If you've watched this podcast before,
you might know that I'm very much obsessed
with health and longevity
and the things you can do to hack your biology
to improve performance.
I exercise daily and take my nutrition very seriously,
but that can only get you so far.
Science has, or scientists like David Sinclair have,
now proven that we can reverse aging
with interventions that go far beyond healthy habits.
I like to keep up on all the latest science behind this stuff.
That's why I keep up with my friend, nutritional scientist,
Dr. Dom D'Agostino, and people send me products.
I like to test on myself to see what works and what doesn't work.
That is why I use cell being by Verso.
It has scientifically proven ingredients
that combat the effects of aging
by increasing your NAD plus levels.
That's the stuff that quite literally powers
every cell in your body.
I personally have been taking cell being
every single morning for years now,
primarily because it enhances my mood,
improves my energy levels,
and I just feel like a younger version of me.
Clinical trials have even shown it improves
energy endurance, cognition, fat loss,
and better, more efficient sleep.
Verso also publishes third-party testing
on each batch produced,
guaranteeing you get what you pay for.
Head on over to VER.SO
and use the coupon code Danny.
It's spelled D-A-N-N-Y to get 15% off your first order.
Or just go to VER.SO forward slash D-A-N-N-Y.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
Then at the end of 1964,
I always, I tried again to go to El Salvador.
I had the log that my boss from Vietnam,
Don Greg, was then the National Security Advisor
to Vice President Bush.
And he knew darn well how effective
was my operation in Vietnam.
I explained to him what don't try to do the same thing
in El Salvador, so he helped me
from the Vice President's office.
He got me an appointment with Thomas Modly,
Secretary of State for Latin America.
Let me tell you,
I didn't realize it was so difficult
when you volunteered not charging a single penny
to go to the place for yourself.
It's almost impossible,
unless you have something like this behind you.
It would not happen.
Right.
Why? Because the military commander
was General Gorman, Paul Gorman.
He is the one responsible for all the advice
all over South America.
He's got no interest of one guy from Cuban origin,
from the CIA, retired
to come to implement a concept
that he had no idea if it worked or not.
And he is the military commander
and he had no control over me.
So he will oppose that, definitely.
Now, what we did is,
Don Greg got me in touch with Thomas Modly,
Undersecretary of State, to explain him my concept.
I also brought the picture with Shed
that helped, you know, the operation where I captured Shed.
Yeah.
So I briefed this guy,
then they got me a meeting with Nestor Sanjic,
who was Undersecretary of Defense for Latin America.
We did the same thing with him.
And at that point in time,
then General Gorman asked the White House,
the military assistant to the President,
it was Almeida Murphy,
asking that he wanted to talk to me
before I went to El Salvador.
So I got a call from the White House
and told me, you know, call this guy,
Captain Elder,
who is the Special Assistant General Gorman.
The General wants to talk to you before you go to El Salvador.
So I called this guy.
He later became a friend.
He later became a colonel. He was a captain then,
a Major, a Major Elder.
So I called him and said, look,
it's the General directed you come to Panama
to see as soon as possible.
I said, all right, 9 o'clock in the morning,
can you pick me up at the airport at 7 o'clock?
He said, you mean today?
I said, hey, you say as soon as possible.
Well, let me check. He checked with the General and said,
well, can you come tomorrow?
Because General is busy to say, no problem.
I'd like somebody to pick me up at the airport
because I bring in some things that I don't want
the Panamanian to see.
He said, no problem.
Captain Santiago will be waiting for you at the airport.
So I brought him up with my album,
the thing that I did in Vietnam,
showing exactly the capability that I had
in implementing counterinsurgency operation.
So we landed.
They picked me up. They put me to a VIP,
a General's room.
On the following day, I went to
to the quarter of General Warman.
I spent like five hours briefing him personally.
We were interrupted once because there was
a two-star Peruvian General who arrived
and he went to say hello and then he came back again.
And then after I finished briefing,
he liked the concept
that I was going to bring.
He said, look, I told him, I said, look,
I think now that I am here, you can get me a meeting
with Ambassador Pickering,
the U.S. Ambassador in El Salvador.
So I can brief him with that. He said, fine.
But I want you to brief my meal group commander,
Colonel Jim Esteele, too.
So I will send you on my private plane.
So he had a huge plane to travel to the United States.
He had a spoiler to Indian plane,
Colonel C-12 plane.
And he got his plane to fly me from there
to El Salvador.
People that are listening that may not know.
Can you give the context?
What was the U.S. doing in El Salvador?
Oh, they had military assistance in El Salvador.
They had a full Colonel called
James Esteele.
He had Lieutenant Colonel who was a friend of mine
from the Bay of Fig Lieutenant Luz Rodriguez in there.
They had a full crew and they were the one
who supported with military equipment
and training a bunch of command sergeant
major advice in the military unit.
They had an advisor of the CIA.
They had an advisor, for example,
La Pral, who was the Special Forces
of the Air Force, the Special Unit.
Who were we training
and what were we training them for?
They were trained for a special operation.
La Pral would go in clandestinely
to run into base camp.
They did the same thing our Special Forces did
as the Special Unit of the Air Force.
The meal group supported them with weapons, ammunition,
fuel, everything for the operation itself.
But my concept was different.
They were implementing my concept.
They had no idea what my concept worked like.
They were used to flying, for example,
a helicopter at over 2,000 feet.
They never go loud
because they were afraid.
If you fly much lower
than 2,000 feet,
then you are really inspired.
That's exposed.
Either you fly three top level, you go high.
You don't fly in between.
But they didn't know that.
They didn't ever experience that before.
So I got then the meeting
with General Bustillo, the head of the Air Force.
He's the one who will give us the final decision.
I explained to him
what he told me.
He said, fine, I have no problem
in you doing that, but we have a problem.
He said, well, I had a problem with me, General.
I said, well, I cannot pay you.
I said, who is asking you for pay?
I haven't returned for the CIA.
The only thing I need is a place to stay,
give me some food,
and that's it. You don't need to pay me a cent.
He said, okay, fine.
Then we'll accept you.
I finally got there.
He had me like a 10-foot pole.
I didn't know why he rejected me.
If I came this way, he went the other way.
He wouldn't even talk to me.
I couldn't understand that.
I said, look, I hear and come myself
and risk my life for these people
because I believe that I can help them.
And this guy wouldn't even talk to me.
Let's go along.
So I finally started trying to teach them
how to fly the concept.
It was hard because when I got in the helicopter
and I put a three-top level,
he started trying to go up and up little by little,
and that's just dangerous.
When you are 500 feet, they can shoot you down very easily.
When you are in trouble,
the three real touching, the three almost,
when they hear the helicopter,
they don't know from where you are coming
because the sound of the helicopter
is diffused all the time.
They don't know you're coming this way or that way
when you're real close.
By the time they see you are gone.
You're going over 50 miles an hour.
So we programmed the first operation.
A friend of mine, Luke,
had me with an owner
of a property near the Lampa River
whose mechanic,
for both mechanics, was kidnapped
by the guerrilla
to their base camp
to fix some engine of the boat
in there.
So I got the guy, he told me exactly where the camp was.
I flew him on the helicopter like he did in Vietnam.
We took the picture of the area.
He told me exactly where the camps were.
They had a full intelligence package.
I tried to do it commemorating
the Bay of Peaks, April 17, 1985.
I hid for that date.
So I took all my intelligence
package, go to the Estado Mayor.
I presented the package.
They looked at it.
They knew it was good intelligence.
They liked it. They told me,
no, you cannot do it on the 17th.
You have to do it on the 18th.
They had an army battalion
not far from that area.
They didn't tell us anything.
They told the battalion to come in
to the base camp.
They were going in that day.
What happened?
These people had
posts all around the perimeter.
They saw the army coming.
So when they arrived into the camp,
it was an empty camp,
brand new empty camp.
They had just left the camp.
So when we were going in the next day,
there was nobody there.
We didn't know that the army had gone there
the day before.
So it got to a point that
they were making fun of me.
I carried this little granada
at the womb and they fired with a heavy weapon.
Because they were not used to use
a smoke grenade,
to mark targets in the ground.
They never did that, a three-top level.
The Air Force didn't have any.
We had to go to the paratrooper unit
to borrow this smoke grenade from them
to be able to use it in the operation.
When we were back, we didn't find anything.
We found an empty camp.
They were making fun of me.
I told Colonel Steele,
look, I am leaving.
These people don't want any help.
No, no, no.
Look, I have faith in your operation.
Let me talk to the commander of the helicopter unit.
It was Captain Trigueros.
So he wanted to see Trigueros and say,
look, you didn't do it.
Because we didn't do it either.
I was supposed to fly in first three-top level
and they didn't work.
On the river, they came back to fix the machine
and the helicopter arrived before I did.
It was all wrong, even though they were not already there.
If they had been there, they would have probably been gone.
So they told them,
look, you have to do it the way Max,
my name was Max Gomez, Max,
tell them how to do it.
So at that point in time,
they arrived with intelligence from somewhere
saying, wait, they are guerrilla moving
instead of the San Pedro.
So Trigueros
told the colonel, we just received some information
somewhere really in this area.
We are going to try Max's concept
and then you can raid us
to see how good we did.
Making fun of him.
I didn't even want to say,
look, try it.
I got my grenade, I got into the goddamn helicopter
ready to go to San Pedro.
Well, he was a gold mine.
They were all there.
First of all, they are not used to
helicopter flying at three-top level.
Normally, what they tell the guerrilla
is when you hear a helicopter,
even if you are in the open, you hit the ground
and don't move. And it's true.
You are flying at 2,000 feet, for example,
and you are looking at the ground.
Any small movement is attracted to your eyes.
Right.
Even whatever it is,
you get attracted to that little movement.
If the guy is static, if he is not moving,
even if it is in the open field,
you cannot spot him. Impossible.
You are looking at 1,000 square miles in there.
You cannot spot him.
So what happened? I am flying on top of the trees.
This guy here, the helicopter,
he goes down and they don't move.
I lower down, I can shoot them,
they are not shooting back.
It's ridiculous.
Because they were told to hit the ground
and don't move.
But they didn't tell him,
no, the helicopter is on top of you.
And I was on top of them.
So I don't know, maybe 15 or 20 of them that way.
Wow.
They call me, hey, there are a bunch of people
going on top of a ravine,
going into a wooded area.
Not much, on top of two mountains.
Empty, no.
So I went up with the helicopter,
my other pilot,
he emptied the minigun completely on them.
They were about 8 of them. They killed like 7 of them.
And there was one that survived
and another little kid
and rung into the woods in there.
And here are some huge backpacks.
Especially these,
there was a female gorilla
I got close to her.
It wasn't even more than 15, 16 years old.
Wow.
And she had a blue, huge backpack in back of her.
We know what it was.
It was the commander,
the ideas moving from one base come to the other.
So they have all the documentation from the PRTC,
Partido Revolucionario de los Trabajadores Centroamericanos,
the Workers' Party,
the Communist Party from El Salvador,
from Central America.
They were moving on. So I told my pilot,
I said, look,
Captain Trigueros,
Sandoval Trigueros to bring some troops.
He called back, it was Sunday.
They didn't thought we were going to have anything.
There was no troops in the standby
to go to react to the operation.
The captain said, no,
they don't have any troops to come.
I said, okay, put me down.
I am going to pick up those backpack
and I will bring them to the helicopter.
I'll pick it up.
And then right next to this guy,
this guy was, I don't know,
it was maybe like a cuban.
He was bigger than the Salvadorian
dark hair and he had a foul.
And he started moving the foul toward me.
So I already have on a strap
from the helicopter, I opened fire with the M16
and killed him.
The helicopter on top,
they told my pilot,
I wasn't even connected to communication.
They tell him, you are taking fire and leave.
I almost, you know,
got myself in the helicopter because he just took off.
And I said, look,
we were not taking fire.
I am firing at the guy.
So the pilot didn't want to come down again.
So he convinced Trigueros to bring some troops finally.
And then we see this guerrilla
moving behind a trip.
Okay.
We're wrong out of ammunition with that.
So I always carry my M16
with about
18, 30 round magazines,
30 bullet H.
And I learned
which I tell them because they didn't know that.
A lot of time, if you try to
fire all 30 rounds one time, it will get jammed
normally.
You put the Trigueros with 30 rounds
to let it go at one time, normally they get jammed.
And the only reason I learned
if they don't get jammed, you put the bullet out,
you get WD-40 oil and you spray a little bit
like this and you put it one by one.
You don't have a missed fire.
All 30 will go straight.
And when you fire a guerrilla, you're flying,
you don't fly all 30 rounds.
And you try to spread toward
where the target is because
it's impossible to hit somebody when you're flying
at a certain speed.
So I started doing that with a fire like he did her.
I didn't know it was her, I thought it was a he
because she had his hair on site of
a leader.
It was a leader hat, a camouflage hat.
You hit her?
Yeah. And she said six times.
It was a very
important play because she survived.
And then they come to the helicopter
and they pick her up
and they pick a little kid.
They carried, and one were allowed
to go, we didn't shoot again. There were two kids
about six, seven years old.
They kidnapped those kids to be able to
send documents to the cities
and pick up documents from the city because a kid
nobody bothered with them.
So they bring to the city, go to this location
and they pick up and have the
point of contact with the city.
So we captured her and a little kid that was kidnapped
to another place.
So when I came back to
the clinic where she was
being treated
I wanted to get a souvenir and there is
everybody taking everything
as a souvenir. There are uniform
everything. The only thing that
was left was her panties
and her brazier. That's all left.
Wow. The panties didn't
smell good so I took the brazier with me as a souvenir.
Okay.
Which created a problem you would not believe.
You know, when I was coming home
I always
came home with an Air Force plane
that came once a month to become
PX for the PX.
Because I didn't have money to fly back and forth.
So every single month the plane would come for three days
to become a thing for the
PX in Armed Forces
PX in El Salvador. So I used to come
in the plane and spend three days with my family
and fly back in the plane. So I flagged
the plane here. I had the goddamn
a brazier inside
in my suitcase. I forgot to mention
to my wife. So when she unpacked
she saw the brazier
and she could not believe
it was a war trophy. She was
convinced I was doing hanky punky
in El Salvador. I tried to tell her
well I was in the dog house. That's a hard sell.
I was in the dog house
close to two years.
In two years Nidia Nida
wrote a book after she was released
because eventually she was released. She went to Cuba
then she came back and became a congresswoman
in the part of singing El Salvador.
And she wrote in her memoirs
she wrote a book called Nunca Tuasola
It was never alone.
And she mentioned at the end there that I
was the one that had
disrespectful
because I took a personal thing of her
as a souvenir. So I showed it to my wife
then she apologized to me
for the first time. She believed me
after that. Before that she didn't believe me.
What a story. Well I was
when we were flying with El Salvador in
1985. That's when I got involved.
I went there to
fly my helicopter concept.
But in December, September of 1985
that's when Jorge
Mazcan also asked me first of all he asked me
to pick up
Posada Carriles. Remember the guy
who Posada Carriles escaped
from Venezuelan prison. He had him in Aruba.
So he asked me
if I would go to Aruba and protect him
in El Salvador. I said look I cannot fly to
Aruba because I have a lot of operations.
If you fly him to El Salvador
I will give him protection. That's what we did.
So he started operating
with another name who helped me in El Salvador
during that time.
Then one point
time in 1986 I got
a call from a communication
and later from Oliver Norris.
What happened to him was
there was a plane
from Caleros
one of the head of the resistant brother
who was bringing things
pretty counter from the United States.
Now the only thing at the time because of the
Bolan amendment that you could bring from the United States
legally was uniform
booth, sacks, backpack
communication equipment.
That's it. You're going to bring a single bullet
or a knife or anything from there.
Well they had this C-54 plane
full with all of these things. Civilian clothes.
Okay.
And then what they did, Mario
who was the brother of the other Caleros
television crew, I don't know it was CBS
or NBC, one of those crew
the plane landed in the Palme d'Or
military base which is American
and Honduran.
When the Honduran saw a crew of
television, now everybody knew
they were helping. But not to the point
put it like so black
and white on television.
So when they saw that crew coming out of the plane
they said, ah
go back. You're not
right to land here. So they sent the plane
back with every scene that was on board.
Okay.
They couldn't do anything.
By that time
Oliver North had a C-130 from
Southern Air Transport in Portugal. They had bought
a lot of weapons in there. They bought
the K-47, they bought some
hand grenade that were all by the way. All kind of
things. They bought them from where?
From Portugal. The government of Portugal.
The plane was already there loading it up.
The Honduran because of what happened
said you are no longer allowed to bring
any plane here until we solve this problem.
With your buses.
Right. So he couldn't fly the plane there.
The plane was costing him every day
standing there doing nothing. So then
he came to me.
He said, look, Felix and you are
very well connected with the Salvadorian.
I respect you. See if you can
get authority from the Minister of Defense
for us to bring this plane down
and we can
unload all of this. But over 100,000
pounds of military equipment, put it
temporarily in a Salvadorian warehouse
until we can solve the problem in Honduras
we can bring it back to Honduras.
Right. Okay. So I went to see the head
of the Air Force General Bustillo. I
explained to him what it was. Of course
they wanted to help the Nicaragua resistance
because they knew most of the weapons. Only weapons
coming into El Salvador either came directly
from Cuba by boat or through the Sandinistas
from Nicaragua.
So they are
ready to help the Nicaragua
resistance.
He told me go and talk to Vides Casadón
the Minister of Defense and tell him that I
support 100%. So they agree.
So the following day
I was waiting in there. Here come the
C-130 from Southern Air. They unloaded
the whole thing. We put in a warehouse in El Salvador
and from there they asked me
ask the Salvadoran if we could do
maintenance of the aircraft in El Salvador.
We will pay for the fuel.
We will pay for the mechanics.
We will have our own mechanic. We will
pay for every spare part.
They agreed. That's how we got involved with
Nicaragua resistance.
That's how when he
defends that the plane of Hasenfoss
went down in Nicaragua. He named you, right?
He named me.
Well, he didn't know my name.
I thought he actually gave your name up.
He named Max Gomez. Max Gomez.
Now, Mike Wallace went
to do the 60 minutes with him
with Hasenfoss. Later
on in 89, Mike Wallace
did the 60 minutes of my life. Did anybody
know
that you were Max Gomez? Who knew you were Max Gomez?
Felix Rodriguez, the Cuban government.
So, the Cuban government
is the one who gave the intelligence
to the Sandinistas that I was, Felix Rodriguez.
So, they gave the information
to Mike Wallace.
Hasenfoss didn't say Felix Rodriguez
because he didn't know my name. He only
called Max from Max Gomez. And then
Mike Wallace wanted to say, well, Max Gomez is Felix Rodriguez
before the Cuban told him.
Got it. I see. And that's how my name came
involved in the Iran Contra thing.
That's why then they asked me to testify
in Congress as a witness
in May of 1987.
What was that like
going through that whole thing?
Let me tell you, it was
how can I put it?
It was
it was not
I would say
it was bothersome.
You know, I feel
bad from the point of view that
it is disturbing
that I had to be involved in something
that I had nothing to do really with that thing
and see the political angle that they
were going to bring. They all wanted to bring
George Bush into that operation
because of my friendship with Don Gray.
They wanted to be able to say that George Bush
that what they did actually, that
Felix Rodriguez went down there
sent by the vice president to violate
the violent amendment. And the helicopter flying
was a cover-up operation
for his real operation was
to be able to
violate the violent amendment
around resistance. It was not the case.
It was the other way around. It was by coincidence
I got involved in that thing.
So they asked me to testify
27-28 of May of 1987.
And then
of course, when the plane went down
I had to leave El Salvador, went to
Miami. I had to hide
that the plane, I had people in front of my house
it was a pain. They asked me to move from there
couldn't go anywhere.
The paper was trying to
ask you questions.
It was a mess.
Then I received a subpoena to testify
in front of the Iran contract committee.
I had to go several times.
And the problem is that
everybody wanted me to bring a lawyer
and I didn't want to.
First of all, I couldn't afford one.
But Jorge Mascanosa
the leader of the Cuban American Foundation
offered to pay a lawyer for me
and the White House
offered to pay a lawyer for me.
Mascanosa, because he didn't want to
come out that he was the one who asked me
to hide in their Posada Carriles.
Even though I told him I would never mention that.
But he wanted to make sure I didn't talk about that
because he was the one who asked me to bring
Posada Carriles into El Salvador.
And then the White House was concerned
about the vice president. I told them, look
I
I told them at one point
I was as a witness of the
of the Senate.
One time, there is
I don't know, five, six, seven
deposition at different time with different people.
One of them was at the top floor of the Senate
and they were mostly
Democrat, maybe three or four Republicans.
Who was deposing you?
The Iran contract committee
on the Senate side.
Was that Danny Sheehan?
No, no, no, no, no. Danny Sheehan doesn't need to do with Iran.
Oh, I thought you was one.
He was a liar from the
Christi Institute.
He had nothing to do with this.
He even had to pay. Everything he was saying
was BS. Nothing was true.
No, he had nothing to do with this.
It was really the U.S. government.
So as I am waiting, the guy who
come out before me was McFarland.
They were deposing McFarland.
Yeah, I was next to McFarland.
And I told them, I said, look
because they asked me, I said, look
people want me to bring
a lawyer. But I tell you what,
if I have to bring a lawyer
for what I have done,
I am in the wrong country.
And I don't believe I am in the wrong country.
I don't need a lawyer.
So everybody look at them like it was nuts, alright?
So time goes by.
The White House insisted again that
they wanted me to bring a lawyer.
They asked me to go to Washington and talk to
Boydon Gray, who was the lawyer
to the vice president and later became
lawyer to the president.
They told me, I said, look, Felix,
we know the vice president didn't do anything wrong
but you don't know this congressman.
They might trick you into saying a thing
that might hurt the vice president.
We'd like you to bring a lawyer.
I said, I won't. I will not bring a lawyer.
Well, at least talk to one.
I said, okay, but I didn't talk to anybody.
So I came back to Miami again.
Now, my son
and my daughter heard your story
that if I didn't bring a lawyer,
I was going to go to prison.
I didn't know that until
maybe six months ago
that I always kept in contact
with the FBI
because the situation with Che Guevara,
the advisor I was, his advisor Centeno
and I was assassinating in Paris
but he saw Commander Che Guevara.
Major Quintanilla,
who was a colonel, was assassinating
Hamburg, Germany with the Commander Che Guevara.
And at that time, we're talking the 70s,
I got a call in my house, I didn't
Felix Ram, the name that I used to believe
in the next, but I told the agency.
So the agency at the time wanted me
to change name to another state, which I refused
because it was hard.
It was traumatic for my son and my daughter
to change their name and lose all their friends
and then see our immediate family
every six months in another state.
It wasn't worth it.
It was worse than being killed.
So I refused that. So what they did,
they came to my home, they put
iron fences in my house,
they built a garage so that my car
could go inside the garage.
They gave me
a license to carry concealed weapons.
It was very difficult to get one.
And now everybody can get one, not at that time.
And they gave me a telephone in my car.
Now the telephone I was waiting for
they're not selling. They're the old one
in the car that we sickline.
Massive. In the back and they didn't think that
it was ten years waiting period for a
diamond phone. Wow.
So when I applied, I recalled a guy called me
from the phone company and said, Mr. Rodriguez,
you told me ten years.
I called the agency and said, look, this is what I've been told.
So they called me back and said,
call the guy again. I said, look,
he told me ten years. He called the guy again.
So I called
Mr. So-and-so, I'm sorry.
I know you told me ten years, but have you
heard anything about my phone?
His answer was, Mr. Rodriguez, I don't know
who the hell you are. For your phone number
so-and-so will be connected the day after tomorrow.
And then they took my car,
it was a
twelve-year-old Cadillac
Seville. They took it to the land
and they bulletproofed my car.
And then I did sign a document
for the CIA that if I
got assassinated, connected
to my service to the agency,
my family could not reclaim
anything from the agency because they offered me what they
considered was going to be the real
security of my life. So I did sign
the paper and, you know,
we never, you know, I stay
in Miami the whole time. My same house all of this year.
And they provided security for your family?
No, I had contact with the FBI.
If I ever felt I had any problem because
I am federal agency,
I could not call the local police. I have to call
the FBI. So I always had
contact with the Bureau of Officer.
So when I was going to
this thing through the Iran Contrasting,
my contact was Carlos Durán from the Bureau, from
the FBI. Six months
or eight months ago, my wife
learned from his widow because he died from cancer
that we didn't know that. My son
and my daughter went to see Carlos.
And they told Carlos, you are a very close friend
of my dad. Everybody
tells us that if he doesn't bring a lawyer,
he's going to go to prison.
And we know you are very close
to him. Please convince him
to take some lawyer with him.
So I remember Carlos called me and said,
look, I like to talk to you. He said, so fine.
So we went to my friend, all two of us alone.
So he told me and said, look,
Felix, I want you to listen very carefully.
You are going to
be testifying from Congress.
And you're going to be on their oath.
You cannot lie.
Believe me, I have experience.
If you lie, they are going
to have 15 different deposition
and they are going to ask the same question, 15
different time. If you lie, it's going to
come out and you are going to go to prison.
You cannot lie to them.
Now, if something you are,
you don't want to talk about it for whatever
reason, you don't remember.
They cannot do you anything
that you don't remember.
That was the best advice I ever got.
I never lied.
I didn't remember
very few times.
Well, you were also there
following orders.
Like you were, it's not like
No, it was independent. Remember, it was flying on my own.
Nobody was paying me.
I have ordered for nobody.
I went as a Salvadoran
as a private citizen to help them.
Okay, I understand.
That's why Gorman was concerned.
That's why he wanted to talk to me, because
here's a guy who went from playing military
in my area, in Air Force, what I do have
advisor.
When I went there, Gorman asked me,
I want you to talk to my military commander also.
I became very close to Jim Steele.
He helped me a lot.
I confided within the operation.
He loved the operation I was doing.
At that time, he would fly with me.
After I learned how to fly, I am not a pilot.
I was not a pilot.
At least you need to have to fly this
and land this thing.
But in fact, I badly wounded flying at
the triple level, we were both going to get killed.
So he taught me how to fly the helicopter.
And then in El Salvador, I perfected.
I could take the helicopter, but my failings
started wrong, and I could take a Huey
or a U.S. 500
by myself and fly.
I've got flown many, many, many times.
But I never went to school.
What did you think when you found out
about this whole Iran-Contra scandal
blowing up and all these people making
all this money with the weapons smuggling
and smuggling the drugs back?
No, that's what I was concerned about.
Because I knew that C-Corps was making
a lot of money on this.
That's why my relationship
with Norse broke when I told him.
He didn't want to accept it.
C-Corps was the one
who controlled the whole money.
Okay?
I had met C-Corps before one time.
At one time,
I was asked
what I was retired after
retiring from the agency to do
an evaluation of the Political Advisor of Oman.
So I spent living in Cairo
more than six months
with the Political Advisor
of this whole time of Oman
who was actually born in
Libya.
I met Mubarak. I was in
Hosni Mubarak home when he was Vice President.
Teaching him how to
operate an American 160
machine gun that this Arab
bought ten of them.
One for Mubarak, one for
the President.
He seeks
for the intelligence service.
So I had to teach him. He was the first
submachine gun with laser beam.
The laser was this big. It's a huge thing
with attachement
under the machine gun.
So I went to Mubarak's home in Heliopolis
with this Arab
to teach him how to handle this
and also the President
how to operate this goddamn thing
which they have drums
with 154 bullet ish.
So that's what I met Mubarak.
I became close friend
of Amed Kamili, head of intelligence
for Egypt. I have some very good
friends in there.
So I stayed there for a while
and all of that. So I met a lot of people
in different places there.
So going back to this,
I had to testify
in Congress and I went by myself
finally
with no lawyers.
It was
at the end I was tired.
I could tell it was really, really
tired on the second day.
Now the first day
when you go in there,
now I am the only one who go without
immunity, without lawyer.
And I made a point of not taking
one drop of water.
When everybody was drinking water, the camera
would be facing you.
So I said I am not going to touch the water
during the whole time, purposely.
You can see my testimony and see a span.
They still do that today.
You go to see a span and my whole testimony is there.
27 May, 28 May 1987.
So the first
day,
it's the easiest day really.
The first day is the lawyer that was
assigned to me was Paul Barbadoro.
Kekker
was assigned to,
to
Norse.
He was the prosecutor from Norse.
This guy, Paul Barbadoro,
was assigned to me.
I am as a witness, not prosecuted
by him, as a witness.
So we had a good relationship with him.
At one point, Tanya's bringing a lot of things
to his deposition
and he told me I say, Felix, if you
don't want us to see what you have in the drum ring,
we have the power to supine anything
that you bring. I said look, I have nothing to worry.
You can see everything I bring here.
I don't have to worry about that.
So the first day of the testimony was
27 of May.
I was the second witness that they
they go all the way from the day
that you were born, from the day you were
born, they go all the way, all together
until the run counter thing.
Wow. They go
minute by minute, hour by hour,
they go in there
and in details
when you go to
the run counter thing, then it goes
into, definitely details.
Before that is the general scene
where you were born, when you went to school,
perky, everything, higher school,
everything that you did in your life, free
world life. Now when they hit
the point that you started, not
only the Bay of People, when they started the run counter,
then they really go and do tells, you know,
dispose the whole thing. That was the first
day, only for that.
The second day, they
have the first hour is dedicated
what they call the hitters, bay
ball hitters. The hitters were
four people,
two senators and two congressmen,
one republican, one democrat, one republican,
one democrat.
Those people were supposed to be the one
who were assigned to
read everything about
me, me, all my depositions.
So those four people would know more
about me than anybody else. The rest of the committee
can read whatever they want, but these people
are obliged to read everything in these
four cases that were my hitters.
They have to read everything about
my life, what I did and everything. So they know
more about me than myself, supposedly.
Then they start for 15 minutes
in question, I have to answer question.
One of
me was
actually
the chairman of the senate, the head
of the senate on the democrat
side.
So you have to go through 15 minutes
of question from both of them. That's one
hour. Then they open up the whole
scene for the whole people to ask questions.
Then anybody in the
committee can ask questions. I got
questions for Peter Rodin, I got questions
from the vice president
of Bush,
what is his name?
His daughter is the one who became very critical
of
Trump, remember, the country woman.
Cheney.
The Cheney was
the last one who asked questions of me.
Is Cheney? Yeah.
So they go through the whole thing
two days.
When I finish
my testimony, if you
are able to look at what CNN
said, the lady from CNN
came and said, after Mr. Rodriguez
testimony, nobody
can touch the vice president with a silk
globe.
That was her comment at the end of my
testimony.
Then I went back to El Salvador. I continued
to fly with the Salvadorian Air Force.
That's what I did.
I continued to fly
with the Salvadorian Air Force until
December of 1988. I
testified in May of 87.
Now, when I am in El Salvador,
my wife called me and
she was very, very upset
because there was
my picture when I was in the army as a
second lieutenant up here in the front
page of the Miami Herald.
It was put out to the press
by John Kerry
that I had received $10 million
from the Medellin cartel for the Contras.
Ten million from the
Menaging Cartel? That's the accusation
of Cuban being involved
with the CIA in drug.
It came from Cuban intelligence.
Really? Oh, yes.
It's amazing.
And John Kerry found
out
that I had contact with one guy
who was the head of
the Medellin cartel
finances, Cuban,
Ramon Millan Rodriguez.
In 1985,
Raul Diaz,
who is well-known in the police community,
he was the head of the SENTAC, a special
unit against narcotics, who persecuted this
lady, Grisela.
They have a movie about her. Grisela Blanco?
Grisela Blanco. He was the head of the
Task Force who functionally got her.
Raul Diaz, a good friend of mine.
I have a guy from
the Medellin cartel with the accountant
for that cartel who told me
that he can compromise the Nicaraguan
resistance in narcotrafficking.
He don't want to deal with the FBI
or the DEA because he said they are
penetrating. He want to deal with
the CIA on somebody who have connection
to the Vice President's office because
at that time, George Bush was the czar
and anti-drugs czar
of the administration. Right, right.
So he thought, I'll bring you to your house.
You don't bring the SOB to my house.
I go to your office. So I went to Raul Diaz's
office and here this guy, tall guy,
thin guy.
I didn't like him because he was kind arrogant.
You know, and
very, excuse me.
Okay.
You can take it if you need to. Very arrogant.
And then,
I thought I put this thing in.
Yeah, I put in
the alarm.
Alarm this and go by the ring.
So
this guy started telling me
that he had a recording from
an assistant of Daniel Ortega who was
then President of Nicaragua. Right.
Who asked him to jump bail.
He actually said he went from Nicaragua
to Guatemala to call.
To call him to call
to call him in Miami.
And this assistant of Daniel Ortega
told me, Leandro Rodriguez, look,
we'd like you to run bail to be able to
set up a money laundering operation for
the Nicaraguan government in Panama.
And we will pay whatever you lose in your
bail. Okay.
But he said he didn't want to go to prison
because what he did, he told me he would
probably have to go to prison for five years.
He didn't want his son to see his father
going to, I didn't know whether he had a son or not.
But that way he told me to go to prison.
So I listened to his
story. When I left,
I mentioned the whole thing to Carlos Durán
from the FBI. He didn't give it down.
He didn't draw the FBI.
He didn't trust them. So I passed the whole information
to Carlos Durán.
Then when I went to Washington, I went to the CIA
and asked for the guy who had to do a narcotic
for the agency. And they brought me a small
guy, bold, heavy,
and he passed in the whole information of this guy
and told me, he seems to be interested
in what the guy had to say.
Time went by, they never called him. Raul Diaz
called me and said, hey, what happened? I said, look, Raul,
if they didn't call you
because they're not interested. Later on
I found out that this guy from
the CIA who was interested
before he did anything, he called Leon Kellner.
Leon Kellner was the
prosecutor for Ramon Millian Rodriguez case here
in Miami. And Leon Kellner
told him, don't bother to talk to this guy.
He's a liar. That's bullshit.
He never had anything to do with this
and in Issa, he will do anything to
get a lower sentence. That's why they never call him.
Okay.
Now, Kerry, while I was
testifying in Congress,
one Republican senator
asked me if I had any knowledge
of Sandinista being involved in narco-trafficking.
So I remember this case.
So I mentioned this case of Ramon Millian Rodriguez
who wanted to throw a money laundering operation
for the Sandinista.
Kerry listened to that and he sent his
assistant, Jack Blum, to find out
where the hell this guy is, Ramon Millian Rodriguez.
Ramon Millian Rodriguez was
at the time in a federal prison
with 45 years,
not five like he told me, with 45 years
to do in jail.
And Jack Blum told him,
if you can compromise
the vice president through Phyllis, now you
cannot lie to us. It has to be true.
But if you can compromise
the vice president through Phyllis, we are going to lower your sentence.
What did the guy say?
No, it has to be true.
Okay. What did the guy say?
Oh, yeah, Phyllis is a patriot.
He never touched a penny. He saw his
poor troops in the field that didn't
have any weapons. So he came to us
and we gave him $10 million from the
making cartel to help the contrast
and in turn, he was going to have
a device present to be
leading with us, which is ridiculous.
So Kerry put
his opinion on me because of that. Accusing
me of receiving $10 million from the making cartel.
Now, my wife is working at that time
at Barry University, right next to
our home. Imagine
from page of the Miami Herald that your husband
have received $10 million from the making cartel.
Of course, she's upset.
So she called me and I said, look, Ross,
no, I know that.
I work at the university. You have to
clear this and these people looking at me like
my husband is involved with $10 million
of the making cartel.
So by the way, you have a subpoena
from Senator Kerry's committee here.
Give me the number.
So I called his office. I talked to Jack Blum
and said, look, you don't need a subpoena with me
but send me the ticket in Easter because
I am doing mileage.
Send me the ticket in Easter and I'll go.
So they sent me the ticket in Easter. It flew to Washington.
He posed me for five hours at Kerry's
office. Now Kerry wasn't there.
It was Jack Blum and the other one was
Robinette who was the assistant
of Mitch McConnell. Mitch McConnell was the
minority at the time in Kerry's committee
because they controlled the Senate at the time.
So Kerry was the chairman and Mitch McConnell
was the other. At the end of my five-hour
deposition,
Robinette and myself from Mitch McConnell's office
and I said, we want an open hearing.
Oh, Jack Blum wanted close hearing.
I said, well, it's classified here.
I retired from the CIA for
security consideration in 1976.
This thing happened
in 1985.
Was it classified about it? No, no, no.
It had to be a close hearing. He didn't want the truth to come out.
He didn't want the truth
that people believed that we were
involved in agriculture. He knew we were going to come out
if it wasn't true. He didn't want that to happen.
No, no, no. He had to be a close hearing.
No choice. That's why
I was so unhappy when I got in
the first thing that I told them
they were all the senators.
Mitch McConnell and Kerry
in the middle and all the other senators
from both sides of the aisle.
And they asked me, I wanted to say something. I said, yes, I look
at Kerry and say, senator,
this will be the hardest testimony of my life.
Now, believe me, this is happening after
my testimony in Congress, which is May
27, way after that.
I'm going to say, what do you say
then, Mr. Rodriguez? I say senator, it's very
difficult to have to answer questions from somebody
that you do not respect. And I don't
respect you, what you're doing here.
Mr. Rodriguez, because we disagree with you,
we are no less patriotic than you are.
Because senator, you didn't even have
the guts to throw your own medal when you were
protesting the Vietnam War.
Mr. Rodriguez, don't believe everything
that you read. I said, senator,
I know that the hell of a lot better than you do.
You didn't have the courage to throw your own
medal through the Vietnam War.
I said, that was a veteran who was me to throw his
medal. It wasn't me. I said, bullshit.
It was everybody's perception. It was your
medal you were throwing through over the
Vietnam, over the White House wall.
Well, we didn't.
We wasn't very unpleasant in the
exchange. So we went through the whole
testimony.
Of course, he knew it wasn't through what he
was doing, all right?
Then we asked for an open hearing.
My uncle,
who is a lawyer graduated from Tulane,
wrote a letter to his committee to run
eight months asking for an open hearing.
It never happened. Ten months later, I got
a call from Robinette.
Senator Mitch McConnell said, if you're
willing to come to Washington to request an
open hearing with him at the press conference
at the senate. I said, of course.
So I prepared with my uncle a statement
of three pages long enumerating
in detail my relationship
with Ramon Milliar, what happened,
how it became to talk
to him, the whole thing in detail.
And the end I wrote and it is,
I'm sure that this will serve, I hope
that this will serve as a, for a
whole situation and not
for change or courage political agenda
that came out in there, okay?
Next month, he gave me an open hearing.
Hmm.
Friday.
Friday is the only day which is stipulated
in the senate that there is no cameras in the room.
There are cameras in the room
from Monday
to Thursday.
But not on Friday.
It was the only date of the week that
you don't have cameras in the room.
Yeah.
Monday to Thursday, there is camera.
But they always reserve Friday
for some reason they don't want to be camera.
He selected that day for me. There was no camera.
I was the last
to be put on, which meant
that a lot of people
already gone home by that time.
There was very few press
to cover that.
In there, he told me that he apologized, that he believed me.
But I said, at the same time he asked me
if I would take a light detector.
I said, yes, but I want you to take one
because you are doing this politically.
Well, I will not take one.
He said, fine. You don't take one? I will not take one.
If you do it, I will take it.
So, on those terms, he told me
you are not excused. He said, okay, fine.
So, we finished the testimony.
He did a good thing.
He called the best
polygraph operator in the nation.
The name was Dr. Raffkin
from the University of Utah.
And he gave a light detector test
to Ramon Millian Rodriguez.
First question.
The Mr. Rodriguez solicited for you
$10 million from the Medellin Cartel.
Yes, deceptive. He was lying.
Second question. The Mr. Rodriguez gave you
carriers in Central America to channelize
those $10 million from the Medellin Cartel
to the Contra. Yes, deceptive.
He was lying.
Third question. The Mr. Rodriguez
received in any way or form
any money from the Medellin Cartel.
Ramon Millian Rodriguez refused to continue
with the light detector test.
How did Kerry write that
in the congressional record?
First two, he had no choice.
First question, he was lying.
The second question. On the third question,
whether Mr. Rodriguez received some money
from the Medellin Cartel, the operator
could not determine the veracity of the question.
Now, you read that.
What do you think? Maybe it's untrue to it.
But they don't tell you.
They could not find out because the guy refused
to continue with the light detector test.
No, I have been saying that all around
because I saw a copy of the record at that time.
Since then, the son of a bitch
changed that. Really?
Now he's saying there exactly
what I said.
At that time, he put that.
Now, the second time, he said the guy
refused to continue with the light detector test.
But on the first version that he put out,
they didn't say that.
He knew I've been saying that everywhere.
Somehow, you know how he did that.
He corrected that
in his testimony.
That's why I hate the SOB so much.
Every time I speak.
Now, when there was the Vietnam veteran for the truce,
you heard that at the time.
They had a big rally on the west wing of the capital,
over 100,000 veterans against Kerry
when he's run for president.
You remember that? Check.
There was a rally on the west wing of the capital.
They were AS speaker. I was one of them.
I spoke to the people that were with Kerry
in the boat.
We got it together.
I was one of the AS speakers.
We all got together in there.
He was never ever wounded in Vietnam.
He got three purple hearts.
He doesn't have a single hole
in his body from a bullet.
He would scratch it somewhere and say
that it was from a hand grenade
or it was from a mortar fire.
That he got a skill, a metal skill.
The third time, the guy refused to give him
the purple heart because he didn't deserve it.
He had to wait for the officer
to be able to get the third one.
You know why he did that?
Because it was an unwritten law
that if you get wounded three times in one tour,
you could request
to be taken away from the operational area.
That's what he did.
He wasn't automatic. You requested.
Immediately, he requested to leave there.
He claimed that he got some silver
and convinced that he fabricated that
with his friends in the Navy.
That is a complete fraud.
Wow.
He didn't spend one second.
He didn't spend more than five minutes in a hospital.
When he claimed he was wounded,
he made a scratch, got a little blood
coming out of there and said that was
from a hand grenade during combat.
If you get wounded by hand grenade
or you get wounded from a skill or from a mortar,
you are a recipient
of the bullet.
You don't have to be a bullet. You are a recipient
of the purple heart.
But he didn't.
He got the three purple hearts
and immediately he left the service.
Then he went with Jane Fonda
to call the people
who were assassinating people, kids
and all of that in Vietnam.
That's why I speak
to the different military unit
that I go.
I tell them how proud I feel
today to see how
the public treated the military
coming from overseas.
They applaud them.
They buy drinks for them.
At that time
they hid it.
They hated going uniform
because they were the way to speeden you.
Because you were supposed to be war criminal.
You were supposed to kill.
And that was due to Carey's and Jane Fonda's
perception of the war.
But that's why you don't like the guy
at all.
Let's talk about Che Guevara.
I said that
after Bolivia
that's why I went to Che.
Thank you for this photograph
that you signed.
I actually went
to Bolivia after
being in
the more important one
for you. This is you right here?
Yeah.
When I went to Bolivia
I was 26 years old.
It was right after
coming out of
before I went
to
to
Ecuador
and Peru.
How long did you hunt Che for?
Very short.
I think we arrived in Bolivia in June.
Now first of all
when there was an American
pretty high guy in the Western Hemisphere
C.I.A. by the end of Larry
Sternfield
Raleigh
was the one who answered
Mr. Sterling
in the state rank.
He was the number two guy
responsible in great extent for the Bay of Pigs
and Larry was working for him.
Larry was pretty high in the agency.
He came to Miami and interviewed 16 Cuba
to select two to go to Bolivia.
They already had three Cubans
in Bolivia at the level
of La Paz. They were advised to the
Minister of Interior, Argedas.
Major Roberto Quintanillo
was the advisor to the Minister of Interior there.
But then they wanted
to be able to
accompany the military units in
Bolivia to what
supposedly be going against Che.
The first combat in
Bolivia were a complete total disaster
because the Bolivian weren't trained properly.
Most of the
the soldier were never used in military training
in Barriento used then
in the Corps of Engineers to build roads for the people.
That's why they love Barriento so much.
And he had in a government reform before
that a lot of farmers had a lot of land.
That's another mistake for him.
He went there telling them
I'm going to give you the land that Barriento
steal from you and Barriento gave them land.
So they look at them like, what is the guy telling me?
I mean, he had an empty message.
That's why during the whole time
which has never happened
in any guerrilla in the world
there was a single guerrilla
who had never recruited one single farmer
in close to a year of operation.
Not one guy
went with them.
It was the Cuban that he brought with him, 17 all together
with two
two Peruvians and one a German
and
the members from the Communist Party
the Raul Kespai and the Pareto brothers brought from the Communist Party.
That was all he had.
Okay.
Now when Cuba sent him there
was sent him to be killed.
She was pro-Chinese.
And the Soviets had no interest
that we would succeed anywhere in the world
because it would be a revolution
that would turn over
in favor of Mao Zedong in China.
When he went to
Africa in 1964-65
that he was in Africa
all the weapons that he received was from
Red China.
Benigno told me that.
Who told you that? Benigno.
Benigno, I became a very close friend.
Benigno was a right-hand man
in Bolivia.
He was wounded once in Bolivia.
He was a captain at the time.
He was one of the three
survivors
of the guerrilla chain way.
He was the only one of the three who defected to Paris
later on.
And wrote a book about the Cuban Revolution
against the Cuban Revolution.
And
I was in Bolivia
after the whole symphony. I was in Bolivia three times.
First of all with BBC of London
to do a documentary.
The second one was with Telemundo.
Channel 51 here from Miami.
Where we seek from Portugal.
When Telemundo, I had to go
two times.
No, I was sick of Portugal.
I went to Bolivia once.
They did a documentary.
My visit with Shea. Then the second year
of the anniversary
they wanted to do something about Shea
but they already had run this first one.
So they called it el reencuento.
The reencounter. So they put
two enemies together.
They fought in Bolivia one against each other.
They had seen each other and killed each other.
Now they are together in Paris
on the same side fighting for the same cost.
Because Benino defected
and he was against Castro in Paris.
What was against Paris?
So they flew me to Paris
at that time.
We had the meeting at
Iliana de la Guardia.
The daughter of Tony
de la Guardia.
Who got married to Masetti, that Argentinian
and her apartment. His apartment.
Which is from a restaurant called
Amore Italiano.
And they had a real encounter.
They had Benino waiting for me in his apartment.
There was one camera behind him.
Then one camera followed me.
When I entered the room for the first time
I saw each other. We shook hands.
And we sat and we started talking.
So they have a genuine garden together
to people who didn't know each other.
Which was interesting. After that we became
very close friends.
To the point that every year we go
twice to Paris.
He picked me up at the airport and I'll go to his
home. I was staying and sleeping at his home
in an expert room that they had.
And his wife would cook for me
the whole time.
I spent
three days without going anywhere. Only talking to him.
The last day I used to tell him
if I don't see the Eiffel Tower
and the arch of Trump
I haven't been in Paris. So he drove me to his little car.
We go to see the Eiffel Tower.
The
arch of
and then we want to see my daughter
used to live there for five years near the
Sena to her apartment and then back
to his home.
We became very, very close friends.
Then after everybody
did the interview with him he wanted to talk to me alone.
And then we spoke.
He told me at the time
say look the guy who really hated you
was Raul Castro. Not Fidel
for whatever reason.
And he said
we were close killing you several times.
He told me, which we never knew about it,
that they sent Captain
Jesus Bermudez Coutinho
who later became a general to Vietnam to assassinate me.
He had two Vietnamese
another people and two Vietnamese with him.
One Vietnamese
was working at the U.S. Embassy
and spoke fluent English.
And they said one time they were trying to
follow me in the car. I was too fast.
They couldn't keep up with my car.
And second time it was very heavily guarded.
I don't recall it.
We, yes.
When I drove, I drove very fast
with my driver. That's true.
And the only time that I could call
they might call I had bodyguard
which I didn't. We had an operation
in south of Saigon.
I was staying at the Duke Hotel in Saigon.
The PRU will come to my hotel
in fully gear because
so will I.
I will be in full uniform with M16
and everything. And then we will go
in several gypses to the operational area
we were going to launch an operation.
Yeah, but not because I was heavily guarded
because everybody was up to here with ammunition
and hand grenades and everything
because we were going to an operation
not to guard me or anything like that.
And then they also, he knew knowledge
when they tried to hijack the plane there.
And then they claim another time that they sent
Giorgio Rammer, Luthus, assassinate me in Miami.
He was lucky that it was in Miami
after that time it went to Beirut in 75.
It coincided with the same time.
And then this guy told the Cuban government
that the CIA became aware
of the life attended in my life
and they took me out of Miami.
We never learned anything. I just went out
because they had the thing to go in Beirut.
So it was luck also.
So
I asked him later on
why do you select me?
Because all of us
have basically the same training.
I had a little bit more
because I was in the Dominican Republic
and the Communist League of the Caribbean before,
but that's it. The rest is the same.
He told me at the end of every interview
he would tell you, if I select you
when will you be ready to be mobilized?
People would tell me today, a week, whatever
time they needed.
My answer to him was okay. If we have time
I take my car and go to my home
say goodbye to my wife
to my two kids, pick up my clothes
I come and we go.
It's not time for that.
I will call here
to my wife Rosa and tell her I have to go.
It's not time for that.
Let's go and I'll give you her number
and you call her and you tell her I have to go.
He said nobody had told him that.
That was a really basic point he selected me.
So we went to Bolivia
and
for some reason I was assigned
to work directly with the head of
the H Division headquarter
Colonel Centeno and I. He was the commander
of the military region
where Che was operating.
My friend
Gustavo Yolo stayed with the battalion
that has been trained at La Esperanza
all sugar mill.
There was a special forces unit
training what was called the second
Ranger battalion of the Bolivian
about 600 to 800 men.
With the maximum
the weapons they were used
the same
guarantee that the U.S. Army was using at the time
because they were using
that, they were using
Karabins M2
for the officer.
Everything that we had, everything.
They were being really trained
because the Bolivian troops were terrible.
The first combat was a disaster.
The soldiers were captured.
They were taking their uniform.
They were their booth and they were sent back
with underwear only
and the weapon everything away.
So they trained a special battalion.
So when I was an advisor
of the second, the H Division
Headquarters with General
Colonel Centeno Anaya, the head of intelligence
Fernando Saucedo.
Whenever they had
captured some guerrilla they would go with him
with their captains and documents
to do the exploitation
of the documentation.
So we were locked at one point in time
when they had a prisoner
called Paco Secastillo Chavez.
Now before we went to Washington
we went through some reading in Washington
about everything had to do with the guerrilla
to familiarize what we were facing
when we got in there.
In there were the transcripts of the interrogation
they had of Regis de Bray and Ciro Bustos.
The two, one Argentinian
and one Frenchman
that were captured
with the guerrilla and they
spoke a lot of general.
So I knew during those interrogatories
that Paco was a
communist from the Bolivian party
who wanted to leave the guerrilla.
He was a communist indeed
who wanted to go to Cuba and Russia
and by the time he was ready to go
thinking he was going to go to this place today
and he drove to this place thinking
a plane would take him to Uruguay
or Paraguay and then give him documentation
to go to Cuba and he was given a rifle
and he was not a guerrilla.
He was more of an intellectual
even though
he didn't look like one
and he had a tremendous memory.
He can tell you meetings that took place six months ago
the address of the building
and 15 people that were there.
Dubai was fantastic.
So there is an encounter
where they killed
basically everybody in the guerrilla except
Tania, the famous guerrilla
an Italian officer from
West Germany that was killing
that operation. She was
a girlfriend of Che
and she was sent by the Soviet
to keep tap on Che
and there's two survivors, Ernesto
Maimoud and this guy Paco, Jose Castillo Chavez.
I was able to
save the life of Paco. Ernesto Maimoud
he didn't have a bullet in his body
he became arrogant with the arm
and they shot him before they brought him
to Vallegrande. They brought Paco back.
Paco had a couple of bullets here
but nothing to be worried about.
So I flew with
the mayor of Sao Paulo
the hell of intelligence into Vallegrande
in the Bolivian Air Force plane
I talked to the guy, the guy had a tremendous memory.
Fantastic.
So they were ready to kill him.
When I went to the headquarters
Colonel Salish was telling
General Davila Fuente
they already interrogated this guy
he could not contribute any more
giving the word. They already told the president
he was badly wounded. So I interfered
with them. I asked the general
who knew that I have documentation
from the president and the commander-in-chief
of the Armed Forces General Obando Candilla
when we both survived
once the American was waiting for us
and two of us arrived in La Paz
they took us directly to the house of the president
Barriento. He gave us a D-car
to give all the support we requested
and then they took us to the minister of defense
who gave us a similar D-car
that we should receive any support that we requested
from any authority, civilian or military
and also they were looking at
D-cars captain in the Bolivian Army
both of us, three of us, the American and the two of us.
So
here we are, we had Paco
I flew him finally back
to Santa Cruz
and we put him in a room, we had interrogated him
I helped him first of all
I got the nurse to come from the hospital
I paid her to treat him because he wasn't
allowed to go to the hospital. He had
all kind of warms
thousands of warms in there
who told me that saved his life
because he would eat all of the things otherwise
he had got gangrene
and then she got something to put in there that they put
to the pigs and
there were thousands of these little things coming out
maggots
but there was something, a very small worm
in there, maggots
but they finally got them out with that thing
that they put on pigs really
it's purple color, a lot of that liquid
and then they injected him with
antibiotics and they saved his life really
and I allowed him to communicate
with his mother and he brought some newspaper
he was very, very, very
cooperative with me, fantastic
he gave us exactly
and that's how we learned how she moved around the area
whenever he went from point A
to point B he would send
they had a group of
they called the vanguard, fix a six
gorilla, we'll go one kilometer ahead of him
he would be in the middle with the head of the
gorillas and then five six gorillas in the back
one kilometer behind
in case there is an ambush he would be
protecting the middle, he could
maneuver out of the ambush
so in late September
last day of September
of 1967
there was an encounter
of a lieutenant
Eduardo Garindo Granchand
it was a lieutenant from the army, a regular army
which is a regular troops
who had an encounter with Shea and they were able
to kill three members of the vanguard
and they advised us in Santa Cruz
they said look, there is three bodies coming
up to the city of Pucara
which is passing
by a grande so you
can come pick up the bodies and see who they are
so Saucedo and I, the head of intelligence
we drove all the way to Pucara
we waited five o'clock in the afternoon
here comes Lieutenant Garindo
with three mules and three bodies
on top of the three mules
so when I look at the three bodies and took the
documentation, one of them was Coco Paredo
who was the leader of the gorilla in the Bolivian side
the other one was Miguel
whose real name was
it was a Cuban captain
Hernán de Josorio
another Hernán de Josorio
and the other one was
another Bolivian who was
a doctor
three of them
and when you look at the documentation that Paco
gave them, three of them were the vanguard
of Shea
and then when I talked to Lieutenant Garindo
I saw the gorilla in the distance
I started preparing my ambush and the gorilla
surprised me
they did what?
the other day was Mario Gutierrez Hardaya
who was a Cuban
Bolivian doctor, the three dead
vanguard
and he said, what he saw was Shea Guevara's group
in the distance, the vanguard was already coming
off the hill
that confirmed what Paco was told
that was Shea there
so when I go back, it was the very end of September
I go back to see Colonel Centeno and said
the Shea is there, we have to move the battalion
when they was
Felix Ramon said, Felix we only have two weeks
for radiation
they already finished the training
but they're going to be shooting
at the highest mark in shooting
the president is going to come to issue
a diploma signed by the president
to all of them
I said, Colonel we know that Shea is there
I explained to him what Paco has told us
and what this guy told me
definitely Shea was there
I said, Colonel now we know where he is
in two weeks we have no idea
where he is
so I convinced him, so he ordered the battalion
to stand down the training immediately
to go to the area of operation
so they have four companies
one company is staying in Vallegrande
where I stayed with my friend
they are staying there
to maintain the communication and the supply
of weapons and food to the battalion
in operation
one company of less than 200 men was commanded
by Captain Raúl López Leighton
he was assigned
along the Rio Grande
so the unit could not, the guerrilla could not move
to the other side
we could operate anywhere in country
and they sent that the 4th division
had quarry with Colonel Terán
it's different from
different areas of operation
from us and these people were already
used to and they respected
Colonel Centeno Anaya in 8th division
so they didn't want to go to Reque Terán
on the 4th division so they put a company there
to make sure they didn't cross the river
then one company was put in reserve
by Captain Celso Torrelio
who later became president of Bolivia
and this captain was in the last place
where Che was being seen was Igueras
to react and support
the company who was doing the search
because they got it proud of Solomón
they started basically the first day of October
moving into the operational area
here comes the first weekend
okay
it is a
Sunday
was the 8th of October
on Saturday the 7th
we learned that later on Saturday
we did the 7th
my friend had trained a special unit
a Bolivian unit in intelligence
soldiers that spoke the different
language
those people were sent in civilian clothes
with no weapon ahead of the battalion
to talk to the civil population
it was easier for them to communicate in civilian clothes
they see a military sometime
they resented
so these people went ahead of the battalion
to get the intelligence for the battalion
they came back that evening on Saturday and said
look a farmer
where he had cultivated
some tomatoes
or whatever
and he said the guerrilla is right there
he gave the location on the map
all the things are located there right now
so that night
he got it proud
600 men
completely
on Sunday morning he started advancing
moving in later
and then all hell broke loose
alright
I was
my friend had a girlfriend
I understand Santa Cruz they wanted to go there
so he left for the weekend
I was the only one who stayed
and what I took the time was
I know there were 386 combat aircraft
that had the capability
of firing 50 caliber machine
and 2.75 rocket
but those planes
didn't have any communication with the ground troops
they had PRC-10 radios
that communicated on 55 megahertz
and the planes
that the Bolivian have were working on VHF
100 and some megahertz
they cannot talk to each other
so I borrowed 3 PRC-10 radios
from the army and I started installing one next
to every pilot
one pilot in front one in the back
so they would be able to talk to the ground
help them get air to ground support
if they don't talk to each other they cannot do that
I had just been finished
that was Sunday, I was just been finished
I was working on the third plane
when Saucedo, Xenx, and Semicapitan
just got work from the operational area
the Papá Cancelo
Daddy Starr
which means that the head of the guerrilla is captured alive
I think he's wounded
but we don't know whether it's Che Guevara
or it's Inti Peredo, Coco's brother
who is the head of the guerrilla and the Bolivian side
so I stood in the back of the second plane
Major Serrate
the head of the operation
the head of the first plane we took off
so we flew over the operational area
so when my radio they told us
Papá Cancelo is El Estranjero
he's the foreigner, so we know it was Che
that was captured alive
so we came back and informed that to Colonel Centeno
he dispatched one small helicopter
a shitty helicopter
it was one long seat for three people
and the pilot was only one seat in the middle
very small helicopter
he sent that helicopter with Lieutenant Colonel
Andrés Celig to go to the operational area
and try to secure
all of Che Guevara's documentation
so the people would not take it like souvenirs
or shit like that
so the helicopter went and dropped him
the operational area came back
the pilot was a major from the
Bolivian Air Force called Haime Nino de Guzmán
the captain
the commander of the helicopter
pilot, a major
so that night I had a couple of bottles of Scotch
and there was no better time
Valentino was a teacher
I brought it up
and we had a big brindice
we drank for the finish
of the guerrillas in Bolivia
that's what Centeno told him
that finally peace is going to come to his country
after he foreseed that was the end
of the guerrillas in there
and then I asked him if I could go with him
everybody wanted to go with him
now because of the helicopter
we would carry four people all together including the pilot
but because of the altitude of
where we were
two more, Fernando Centeno and somebody else
there was a lieutenant colonel
all the other were major, I was captain
but I had an excellent relationship with all of them
so I asked him if I could go with him
so Centeno spoke to all his officers
after we had a brindice drink
with all of them, said look
I know all of you want to go
but I want you to understand captain Ramos
this guy had done a lot of harm
to come to Ramos country
you don't mind with taking with you
everybody agreed
I was already an operator
I had an RS-48
a little briefcase where I transmitted
in telegraphy
so that night I sent message to Washington
through an embassy nearby
telling them, say look
she is captured alive
you have told me to keep him alive
you still want to keep him alive
move at the highest level
because these people are not keeping any prisoner
and I asked for another contact
permanent contact with a refuel
at 7 am or something
so I guess
I didn't sleep at all
it was 5 o'clock in the morning
I went to the wrong way, waited for them
at 7 o'clock in the morning
we took off in the helicopter
Centeno and I, I was sitting in Centeno here
I was sitting on his right
the pilot Hyman Iba was man
half an hour flying time
we landed right in front of the
house of Laigueras
a school house
now the air where she died
is not that the place
because the Bolivian army destroyed
completed the old building
where he was
now the Kuhnberg government rebuilt that
in concrete which is not the original
it is the same area which completed
the different building
so we landed next to the original building
they were waiting for all the officers
Salish who had all the documentation
sharing it back
Ayaroa who was the executive of the battalion
so we went to the room
accompanied the colonel
and three or four other officers with him
we entered the room
the door is here, the wall is right here
and there is another door here for another room
and there is a little window on this side
the other room doesn't have
a little window on the backside on the left
so we entered here
the first thing that I see in front
is the dead body of two Kuhns
they had the two bodies of his friend
two captains that died in combat
that they were
they put him right inside the same room
on the back of the wall
and Che was tied down
under this little window here
hands and legs
so Centeno started asking the question
he looked at him and he didn't say a word
nothing
to a point the colonel Centeno said
look, you invaded my country
the least you should have the courtesy of answering me
nothing
so he was bad
and all of us
then I asked him in Cornel
can you give me his documentation
I'd like to photograph it from my government
so he turned the colonel's status until he
gives Captain Ramos here
your back
now he already took it but I didn't find it
the passport
the colonel already put it in his pocket
the DNC passport
but he had inside there a big book
made in Germany
it was written like in January, February
in Spanish, that was his diary
he also have a little booklet
a black booklet
that was type reading messages in Spanish
signed by Ariel
that message that he received from Cuba
now he could not transmit to Cuba
for Cuba I think purposely
sent the only transmitter they sent
we're seeing arrived broken
so he could not communicate with Cuba
he could only receive message
he could not send any message to Cuba
and he had the cold book
given to him by Red China
the Chinese have their codes
in numbers, numeric codes
so there are little booklet like this
it looks like this high
one inch and a half
one inch and a half and this high
and you have glue around
and it's numbers
one group of four numbers
one in red and one in black
one for ciphering, one for deciphering
there is more complicated
because you have to write a letter
to respond to a number
it's almost impossible
it's impossible to do
the second hour is more simple
but the same thing is impossible to decipher
when it is letters are random
there is no computer that will decipher that
so he had that from Chinese
several like 8 or 10 books like that
in different color
then he also have some medicament for his asthma
some picture of his family
in there
he got asthma, but not when he was with me
he didn't have any asthma attack
but he has asthma and he has equipment
therefore he has asthma
so I got all of these
I went to a room they call
they have one telephone line
later on I went back
with BBC of London and the other people
there was nothing
they don't have any communication out of the gate
at that time they have one telephone
in a room that communicated
we're sliding all the way through the jungle
to the subviogram
you can understand
more or less
to be able to do one line line at a time
so I stayed in there
I put a
table out in the middle where it was the sun
and I took my camera
I had my Pentax camera with a bunch of film
I used all my film
35mm
fortunately I had the Minox German camera
and the roll that I had
had 40 picture each
I had a bunch of rolls so I was able to photograph
completely the diary
every single page of the diary
when there
in the middle of that I interrupted
I went back to the room where he was
so I stood in front of him and said
I'd like to talk to you
he looked at me very arrogant
nobody talks to me, nobody interrogates me
so when I saw that attitude
I said comandante I didn't come in
interrogate you, I'd like to talk to you
I admire you
you used to be ahead of a stay in Cuba
even though I know they are mistaking
I just came here to talk to you
did you really admire him?
he looked at me for a while to see if I was making
laugh of him, if I was laughing
when he saw that I was serious
he said can you untie me
can I say sure
so I called soldado, yes my captain
he came in
remove the comandante Gavara
remove the comandante Gavara
untie comandante Gavara
so they untied him
and we helped him
because he would hardly move
and he had a bullet
through here
he had been
a new guest
very clean was put on
but you could still blow coming out a little bit
from the side there
nothing serious really
so we sat him in the bench
and then he started talking
now
whenever I asked him anything
about tactical interest to us
he would tell me and say you know I can answer that
so I went along with that
we continued to talk about different things
at one point he started telling me
that the Cuban economy
is in shambles because of the embargo
American embargo
when I look at it as a commander
that is ironic that you tell me that
he said why
he said because you were the minister
of commerce in Cuba
you were the president of the Cuban national bank
and he was not even an economist
he said how
do you know how he became president of the national bank
he said I have no idea
so I was sitting one time
listening to Fidel
I was talking to Camilo Cienfuegos
I understood that Fidel was asking
for a dedicated communist
I rose my hand
and he was asking for a dedicated economist
so in my opinion
at that I thought he doesn't want to answer
but then when I met Benigno
because Benigno was also
it was a one point time
in La Sierra Maestra
he was working with Camilo Cienfuegos
he said
he understood that Fidel was asking for a dedicated communist
and he rose his hand
Fidel was asking for a dedicated economist
and that's how he became president of the national bank
and minister of commerce
he heard communists when he was asking
for an economist
then we continued to talk at one point in time
then I told him about
when you were in Africa
you had the African
they told me you were very poor soldiers
oh I want to talk about that
well you don't want to talk about it
but your own people have said that you had
like 10,000 guerrillas
and they were very poor soldiers
so he looked at me and said well
if I had 10,000 guerrillas
it would have been different
but you were right, they were very poor soldiers
and then at the end of the day
he admitted that
first of all, in his mind
imperialists in the United States
would not be that much interesting
in a very poor country like Bolivia
Bolivia had no real rich resources
for the United States
if it was Venezuela with oil, yes
but Bolivia don't even have a port
they felt the United States
would not be that much interested
in putting so many things in a country
that doesn't mean anything economically
second, they knew that the Bolivian
army was very poorly trained
absolutely right
they, that's why
at the beginning it was a total disaster
a third, most important to him
Bolivia had boundaries with five different countries
if you take Bolivia, he could export
the revolution border to war with Brazil
with Argentina
with Paraguay
with Chile
and Peru
with all five different countries
that was more important thing
so we talk about, you know, one point
you are not Bolivian
the commander, who do you think I am
and say, well
you can either be a Puerto Rican
or you can be a Cuban
and by the question you have been asking me
you are working for the United States intelligence service
I said, yes, I was a member
of the Bay of Pig infiltration
things and what's your name
he was interested in my name
because they had an infiltrator
with the infiltration team
where I was
in Ignopérez
he was a lieutenant in the Cuban army
who allegedly had defected to us
and he was part of the infiltration team
his team, one land where everybody was captured
and then people saw him
they promoted him
to captain, in captain uniform
of the rebel uniform
going to a different prison after the Bay of Pig
to see if he could identify
a person like me that were in prison
because he knew our faces
and he knew our true name
but we were in Cuba with fake names
so we were registering in prison because we were captured
we were giving them the documentation
which is not our true name
so they were using him to go through different prisons
to see if he could identify people like me
Benignopérez
but I didn't know what was going to happen to him
so I say Felix and Felix really didn't mean anything
to him at all
so we started continuing to wait to see
what happened
when Centeno came before that
I got a phone call
from a lady
Centeno was in the operational area
when the combat was going on
you could hear the mortar fire and the shooting
from where we were
here comes a little lady
and said
first of all came the line
captain there is a phone call
for the highest ranking officer
which is you, we have two lieutenant here
you are the only captain
so I go to that we call telegraph
where I made the photograph
and then they said I think it was outside
because the very poor communications
say 500, 600
order from the high command
500
and 600
we had a very simple call
500 Che Guevara
600 dead, 700 keep him alive
I asked twice
500, 600
so when Centeno came
before he left I called him and said
Colonel
you are high Bolivian command to eliminate the prisoner
we received the order
500, 600 from your people
my instruction
from my government is to try to keep him alive
at all costs it is very important
for us we will have a helicopter in plane
to fly into Panama for interrogation
he looked at me and said Felix
we have worked empirically we are very
grateful to you but this is order from
my president my commander in chief
he looked at his watch and said
when I leave the helicopter is going to come
several time
bringing food ammunition and taking our wounded
and our dead
after 2 o'clock in the afternoon
is going to come to pick up Che Guevara
dead body
you can not use to see him any way you want
because we know how much harm
he have done to your country
so the colonel tried to make them change their mind
because it is very important to us
but I give you my word of honor
that if there is not a counter on it
I will bring you the dead body of Che
and I will say you can not use to see him
any way you want
we know how much harm he has done to your country
and he left sure enough
the helicopter came one time
that is what that picture was taking
because I never even thought about getting a picture with him
I was talking to him when here
come the pilot
how many was mine same captain
my mayor said I want a picture
with the prisoner and he got the 35mm
camera from the head of intelligence
so I look and see commander do you mine
say no
so when we help him I was the one who help him
I hold him he was limping a little bit
because of the bullet he had in his leg
we went around the school house
we sat in there
this is right now the door is in this way here
above here
this is the little bit of wall
it is not even a building behind that
it is empty behind this
I gave my camera to the pilot
he was the one who took the picture
just before that picture was taken
I put my hand around and say commander
look the little bird
we tell that in Cuba
look the little bird
with the little bird to take a picture
and he was laughing
to get kids to smile
and I look at the camera
I thought actually when I sent this picture
to the CIA who was embedded
in one of the roles that I put in X
I told the guy from the A&C in La Paz
I said look this is a role of picture
we say when Che is laughing
because I thought he was laughing at the time
the picture was taken
he changed for that expression
second before that he was laughing like hell
what was the conversation between you and Che
after you got the order
that he needed to be killed
you didn't tell him anything
I started waiting to see what happened
I went back we spoke several times
wasn't there a moment
let me tell you
even I thought
talking to myself
they were going him alive
how about if I called the landline
telephone line when the helicopter comes
and I tell the pilot
that
my government convinced
your government to keep
we just got a phone call
to change order
that my government
were able to convince your government
to keep him alive
and if they tried to call the county
okay but maybe
then I thought to myself
hey remember what happened
when Batista released Fidel that December
what happened to Cuba
I told myself
actually you are here to advise
not to be the commander
I told myself if you do that
and you are successful
and he is released
eventually and he goes to another country
a lot of people get killed because of him
you are going to be responsible
for the responsibility of the
Bolivian
let history run its course
so I didn't do anything else to save his life
at all
and then I started waiting to see what happened
then
the helicopter was gone
here come this lady
about
1230, 1240 in the
afternoon with the radio
captain, captain
why are you going to kill him
I said look
we just saw you being photographed with him
in front of the school hall
the radio already gave the news
that he died from combat wounds
and he was still alive
so at that time there is not going to be
any counter orders so I got into a room
I stood in front of him he was sitting on the bench
he looked at me I looked at him
said commander I am sorry
I tried my best
he ordered from the high bolivian commander
the guy looked at me and he turned
white like a piece of paper
I had never seen somebody
whose face turned white
I mean literally white
like the blood had drained out of his face
he didn't move a muscle
and then he said it's better this way
and should have never been captured alive
and then he got the pipe and said I like to give
this pipe to a soldier who treated me well
now he got the pipe when I arrived
he wanted to smoke
picadura from tabacco
so I asked a soldier to give me a couple of cigarettes
so he got the regular cigarette
he opened it up and put what was inside
the cigarette inside the pipe and then
he smoked with me I allowed him to smoke
from cigarette because we didn't have
a pipe
a smoke for the pipe
so I wanted to then I said
at that point in time when he said that
sergeant Tehran he knew was the one
security people burst into his room
I want the pipe my captain I want the pipe
but no you don't give it
I said get out of here
I want the pipe my captain get out of here
she had the pipe here when he went out
I looked at him and said commander would you give it to me
he saw for a few seconds
and said I'll give it to you
so I got the pipe I put it here
it's anything you want for your family
then I was setting a sarcastic way
he said well if you can't
tell Fidel that he will soon see
a triumphant revolution in America
and then he changed and said
and you can tell my wife
to remarry and try to be happy
that was the last way
it was very emotional
and me especially because
I have never ordered anybody
who is in prison being killed
this was a very unique and very
unusual circumstances
so it was emotional
tremendously for me that
that moment and see
so we look at each other he came to where I was
we shook hands look at each other face
he embraced me I embraced him
hard
then he left go he stood in attention
I looked at him I went back
I shook his hand again I embraced him
and I left
and he was hard
I hope I never had to go through that again
and then I went out
it was Sergeant Teran was next to the other officers
in there
and I told him I said
Sargento
their order from high Bolivian command
didn't shoot from here
shoot from here down because this man
supposed to die from combat
it was exactly
one o'clock in the afternoon
because I looked at the watch when I left
I walked toward the area where it was
photographing the diary I said
in the bench taking some note
at 1.15 I heard a short burst
of machine gun fire
it was in M2
Karamine he borrowed
because the soldiers have a regular guarantee
he borrowed the automatic
full automatic M2 Karamine from Lieutenant
Perez who was next to him
it was a Lieutenant that was very very very short
very small
and it was
1.15 I took note
then I went in there
and I would say
for a long time
maybe 2-3 hours later
here come Gariprada
and César Torrelli to captain
and then I joined them and we go into the room
when we arrived into the room
his body was
this side way this door was
like this his head
looking at the ceiling
the two dead bodies were still there
and his face was covered with mud
now the floor
is dirt it's mud
very humid
the walls were made out of
clay
clay or dirt
mixed with a little
a stone and some
some things from the trees
that's the way they mixed together
and it's very very
insulating you know
it really keeps the coal out
keeps the heat out it's very very insulating
and then of course they had this straw on top of the
the wall itself had a straw
a small stone
there was a bunch of stones later on
when I went back finally
brought a bunch of that back home
before they destroyed the house
inside
so
here we are I asked them
I could hear the helicopter coming
they heard the helicopter coming
they left both of them
alright now when we came in
Senso Torrelli had a little stick
he said you son of a bitch
you have killed so many of my soldiers
and then we embraced on top of the body
and Gariprao said captain
we have finished the guerrilla in Latin America
and told him captain
if we have not
finished them at least we have delayed them for a long time
then here
the helicopter they took off immediately
so I asked to a soldier who was there
to bring me a bucket of water
because fate was covered with mud
so I got a bucket of water
and I sat next to him
I got with my hand I cleaned all his face
I completely took all the blood out of his face
completely
the mud out of his face
I tried to close his job
with my handkerchief which I lost
with the air of the helicopter
it was successfully closing in there
but then I lost and it went back again
I tried unsuccessfully to close the eyes
several times put it back in
went back on
I've been up in quite more than two hours
is that normal?
when you are so long
even you have to try to move an arm
you won't
at the beginning yes
you can move it
a few minutes you can keep it quiet
and it will stay there
when there are several hours
it's already frozen that way
you can bring it down
but when you let it go it goes up again
so I could not close the eye
this I could
but then with the air of the helicopter
I lost my handkerchief and when you see the picture
it's always down
in there
so I got the body
the two captains left
I got the body on one side
two soldiers on the other side
we took to the left right pontoon
of the helicopter
when I was trying to tie it down
the Major Ninjo Agusman
the Pyro Semicaptain
moved him forward to balance a little bit
the helicopter
so I put my hand under him
it was a mnakamija
a treasure under it
it's plastic and I pulled it out
when I got the hand out
the bullet hit the aorta
when this thing is plastic
it doesn't allow the liquid to drain down
I didn't say a word
but I thought to myself
in my mind
there are persons that have a lot of blood
in their hand
so I didn't say a word
I thought that came to my mind
I cleaned the blood on the right side of my pen
I went down and continued to tie the helicopter
tie the thing around
which I lost with the helicopter
I jumped into the helicopter
a little bit to the left to balance the helicopter
on the lone ship
and at that point a soldier came
and said Major, Major Father Chiller wanted to see him
so we stayed like 2-3 minutes
with the engine running
here comes this priest
riding a mule
all the way around
he was fairly close to being decapitated
because we were in a little bit lower ground
than where he was coming from
but just this much from the play
he went a little bit closer
and then twice
he
which I took picture of it
with my Minox camera
I thought to myself this guy was an atheist
he didn't believe in God
nevertheless he received the last ritual
from the Catholic Church
and then we took off
we took off for
and let me tell you there was time that we were talking
I wasn't paying any attention
be honest with you
I was looking at this guy
in front of me
the guy looks like a beggar
it's a guy who didn't have
proper clothes
he had a
jacket that was
in racks
filthy
the hair was filthy
he didn't have any pair of boots
he had some couple of
leather
very badly tied down to his foot
like shoes that weren't shoes
very badly
to a point
you feel sorry for some individual like that
I felt sorry for the guy
and my mind when he was talking
I wasn't even paying attention
I never met him personally
but I remember when he visited the Soviet Union
when he visited Mao Zedong in China
I remember that guy
seems to me much taller
than what he was right there now
with this
big abrigo
this cover coat
with the leader of the Soviet Union
and the leader of China
and looking at this guy
it could not be the same person
it's impossible
it strikes so different
what I was looking at
and what I knew or remember from him
so it wasn't
but it was probably one of the hardest moments
in my life
to go through with that decision
but I had to do it
it was not a question about it
I hope I never have to do it again
I never will
did you really respect him
in that moment did you have some respect for him
when a guy accept his faith
and he died like a man
for example
he took people in exile
he would say shake a lot of pity for a life
he cried
other people would say
Cuba would say for example
what a treasure
and he has speeded me
we both treat each other
with mutual respect
all the time
all the time
now some of my friend would tell me
if he had been the other way around
he would not treat you like that
I said I know
but that's the difference between them and us
it's a hell of a difference
we fight for what he fights for
what kind of person was he
how did he treat people
how did he treat prisoners
well
being captured
you take another personality
you are
you are down
it's different when you are in power
now
I had some experience
that tell his real character
tell a lot of who it really was
for example
here in this museum about five years ago
and she came to Wiltshire
she was the
sister of a friend of mine
who is a paratrooper during the Bay of Peaks castanio
their father
was a captain in the Cuban police
the anti-communist police
called BRAC
it was specifically anti-communist
unit
and Fidel and Che hated them
now he was a lieutenant in that unit
a very decent guy
they had him
to be executed
but they allowed the family to visit him
so she was telling me here one day
I said look, I went to visit my father
on Saturday
I get up normally at 2-3 o'clock in the morning
to be at La Cabana
early, very early
because there would be hundreds of people
to visit their families that were in prison
so I arrived one of the first
when I arrived there were already people there
we arrived at 3-4 o'clock in the morning
waiting in line
by 11 o'clock in the morning it was a huge line
we were fairly in front
there was a lady in front of her
Che Guevara arrived at 11 o'clock in the morning
he came in the jeep and this lady in front
started yelling at Che Guevara
and he said, calm down, no, no, no
she was so persistent that Che Guevara noticed her
and she came in the jeep
came down the jeep, what happened to you?
and then the lady told him
commander, my son is 15 years old
he's been in prison for 2 weeks
he had done nothing
he was not
he was not condemned to death penalty
15
15
he was not condemned to death penalty
he was just in prison for whatever he did
I haven't been able to sleep in 2 weeks
please release him, he's 15 years old
he hasn't done nothing
what is the thing of your son?
bring her son now
she waited, the guy went
when his older went, they took a little while
came with the kid, when the kid came
15 years old, praying in front of her
he hit him on the face
son of a bitch, for your fault
your mother has been in prison for 2 weeks
because you are responsible for your mother
not sleeping in 2 weeks
put out his pistol and shot him on the head
in front of everybody
and everybody in the line started calling
son of a bitch, murderer, communist
son of a bitch, you saw assassin
communist
that's the end of the visit today
everybody go home
there is no visit for prisoners today
so everybody had to leave there
that was the true Che Guevara
and when you read his letter
to his father, the first time that he had
killed people, he wrote to his father
it's a matter of the Cuban record
that he found out that he enjoyed killing people
okay
when I talked to
there was a guy who trained them
he was a Cuban
which I met, I became friends with him later on
he walk with me, even though
I didn't saw him at the time, the Dominican Republic
in 1959, he was working
with the Dominican chief of intelligence
Abis Garcia
he told me
he was the one who
trained Che and Fidel and everybody in Mexico
they called him El Coriano
Korean, Miguel Asanches
they called him Coriano because he was
in the Korean war with the U.S. Army
so Carlos Prio Sovaraz, who was the former president
of Cuba, who Batista deposed
paid him, at the beginning he was with Fidel
before he went to Sierra Maestra, paid him
to go and train Fidel in Mexico
because this guy had military experience from Korea
he was the one who trained all of them
say, Felix, I knew all of them
Che was nothing, he was nobody
in the training camp, nothing
and he said, let me tell you one thing
Che will come to me
because he knew that he was in Korea
he will ask me, several times
you have been in combat
you have killed people
what does it feel like
when you shoot somebody, when you shoot your enemy
and you see the blood coming out
that's a fascination to find out
what was your feeling when you do that
back in training in Mexico
while Coriano
so he had that from inside him all the time
and he loved to give the
a shot in the head to the people
we enjoyed that
what was your answer to that
how does it feel to you
when you murder
when you're in war it's different
when I arrived I had a lot of
this happened later on
I know he killed a lot of my people
but then
it was a transformation
what I had in my mind
against him
when I saw him
it's not what I expected
I saw a poor guy
a beggar
a guy who was
being
he lost
who was really, really down
you felt sorry
when you see somebody like that
and really I forgot everything
that he did against my people
when you hear
the guy who trained Che
talk about Che's fascination
with killing, with death
how does that compare
to your experience with taking people's lives
well I never take
I got taking people's lives in combat
they're shooting at you and you're shooting at them
it's not execution
but it's still taking
we never torture anybody
a lot of people said in Vietnam
our people never torture anybody
in front of me
we got more
being nice to them like for example
the guy who made the position of Tutan
the guy who was fighting the rocket into Saigon
I was friendly with him
he started working with us then
accompanying our units
he really was pissed off at them
because they took him in the only male in the family
look when he was in the helicopter
and we put a strike on right on top
he was cheering like
yeah you hit the target
she's your friend
you were with them maybe 10 days ago
you were with them down there
it's amazing the transformation of these people
he was happy that we were killing his friend down there
I couldn't understand that
really
it's amazing I had some very interesting
experience during my career with the A's
in different part and that was one of them
to see this guy who just came out
it was supposed to be their brothers in there
and he would enjoy when
yeah you are on target you are hitting the right target
you can see honestly he was feeling good
about that
maybe he had such a big resentment
that they made him do that that he didn't want to do
that he expressed it that way
did it change you when you first started going
into combat and
even in like Vietnam
some of the things you had to do
you know in firefights
seeing all the death taking people's lives
how did that affect you personally
did you become numb to it
let me tell you to be honest with you
I didn't even talk about Shea
when I was in Vietnam Shea was nothing
it's amazing
people think that was the biggest thing in my career
that was the least thing in my career
I feel like I know
I contribute a hell of a lot more in Vietnam
I have much more fulfillment
what happened in Vietnam than in Bolivia
it was only one hour two hours
three hours four hours with him in there
that's all and advising them
he was nothing
he was nobody at that time
what do you feel when you saw Shea
now they are thinking in the Shea that Cuban created
in your image after he died
he is in the Shea that they created
in the mind of people that superman
that people admire
some people admire and love him even though he was a criminal
that the Shea that I met
when Shea was there was nobody
nobody knew like him like Shea
at that time he was nobody
he was really a very
very poor guerrilla he was the worst guerrilla
in the world when you look at it
he could not even recruit a single farmer
Benigno used to
to keep with me and say Felix
the only guy that we recruited
was a dog and he left because we
couldn't provide him with food
nobody ever joined him
he went from whatever
arrived with him and people got killed
or people defected from the guerrilla
that was it
but to me
when you look at my career
I would say look
nobody talked about what I really did in Vietnam
everybody wants to talk about Shea Guevara
and that's the least thing that I consider I did
it was a matter of circumstances to be there
where I went through
but believe me I was the one who captured him
by circumstances I was there
but it wasn't
it wasn't the highlight of my life really to be honest
with you at all
the highlight of my life was Vietnam
when you look at it
where you put accomplishing El Salvador
when you capture Nidia Diaz the commander
I mean I guess like
what I was getting at was like
the amount of
blood and the amount of death
and suffering that you've seen in your life
is more than
most people on earth
let me tell you probably I had that at home
when I came back at home
my kid for example
will have some fever
okay
they had a cold
and they had some high fever
I didn't ask about them
and my wife said you don't love them
I said no no no
I have been in hospital all the time
I see kids like them
with no eyes, with no legs
with no hands
you are lucky that they have only a cold
you are lucky that you only have a little bit of fever
that's nothing
it's really in a way insensitive
insensitized you
she was very sensitive
when my son had a fever
a high fever or feel bad
I didn't
but I saw so many agony of this little kid
saying like my kid
even younger or older
what they have gone through
my kid only had a cold
it's not comparison
so in a way
he didn't move me to see him with a cold
give him some medicine
he will get rid of it
it's nothing
really nothing
perhaps if I hadn't gone through
what I did maybe I would be more worried
about them and she used to tell me
you don't love them
for you to see the people that are so in Vietnam
this is nothing
absolutely nothing
is the legend true
that you have chased watch
no no that's not the way it was
no I had bought in Miami
long before that
a GMT watch
exactly the same to the one that they had
so when I arrived in
in Laigera
there was one soldier
that had one of the watches
now remember there were about 7 or 8
GMT in there
every single Cuban Fidel gave a GMT watch
Che and every one of them
later on
when I got the guys
from this guy I said look
I want to see inside
to see if they have any microfilm
so give it to me I'll give it back to you
my band was different
from the original one
because my band when the original one went bad
I bought one which is not Rolex
which is stronger
so where did I exchange badges
I gave him my band with
my watch and took his
Rolex with my band
he told me he took a French
bullshit he didn't take a French
Che had two GMT watches
with him his and the one
Cuban who had died that he was keeping
the other Rolex to give it to the family
I got the story directly from
them
and then Garry Prado got both of them
because they brought Che to Garry Prado
they cut his hands off right
so what was later on
Garry Prado nothing to do with that
that was the day after when they were trying
to prove that Fidel indeed
that if Che denied
he wanted to cut his head off
once he was told look you cannot do that
why not say you're ahead of us
you can show the head of a human being
what do you suggest I cut one finger
we had the fingerprint from the Argentinian Federal Police
and they can be checked so he ordered
both hands to be cut
that was a different story
but the watch actually
was
Garry Prado had both of them
now they told me
and I believe for many many years
that when they captured Che
Che said don't shoot
I wish to do a life more than that
that distorted believing
I wasn't there and that distorted
I gave before because that's what I believe
it happened that what they told me
and that's why then
Sergeant Terran told me that when he
was when they when he shoot Che
he went into the room
and Che knew he was going to be killed but I told him
I say hey you say
you're not going to say no no no
we are not going to kill you you are worse to you
more alive than dead so that I
repeating what he had said before
to repeating that what he had said before
I was not the case
I had
about ten days ago
a newspaper guy that I respect
that interview
the four soldiers that actually captured Che
because Garry Prado was not present
when they captured Che
they brought him to him
and he gave me the picture of the guys
and I got all the documentation
he gave me from these four guys
these guys were the one who captured Che
and they claimed that Che
was with Simeon Cuba's Arabia
I know that because they both were captured
Simeon Cuba's Arabia
was another guerrilla like this very small
he had much
more hair and more bear than Che
really really tough
with a lot of hair
and he was executed
as a matter of time I was talking
I was photographing the direct one
I hear some birds of fire I run into his room
and look at Che, he look at me
they go to the next room and they had just shot
Simeon Cuba's Arabia
he didn't have even a bulletin
he had not been wounded at all
and what happened was
two guys said they were very close
and then they jumped on Che
all four of them
Che the only scene Che said
no no no no no no
my war is not against you
it's against your officers
that's all that Che said
he didn't say that at all
the only scene he told me
no no no my war
is with you
my war is not with you it's with your officer
now I tell that
but at the beginning I said the only scene
because I found hard to believe that Che would say that
really
but that's what they said and I respected that
and it was a lie
it was a lie to try to put him down
but he didn't say that
going back to the beginning
we glossed over a little bit
but I wanted to talk about
the mission that you
went on when they shipped you over
to Cuba to assassinate Castro
what was that like
when they sent you over there
and the mission ultimately failed
that went through the same
we were in Panama
we just moved from Guatemala to Panama
for additional training
so a frame of mind Segundo Borja and myself
we thought we should have said look
why did we volunteer to kill Castro
that would shorten the war tremendous and save life
let's do it so we went to see an American
who was in charge of training in there
and we told and said look
we'd like to participate in getting rid of Castro
we'd like to see if it's possible
we can shoot them
it took notes that was it
never talked to us again
then we spent the fantasy training
they flew us actually playing
as if we landed in Guatemala for one night
and then they took us
to a home
of the owner
of the plantation in there for one night
then we flew back to Miami and they put us
in a motel in Homestead
which is included nothing around
it's just trees all over the place
it farms all around there
one motel was a big swimming pool
huge swimming pool
but we used to practice with the arbitre
the small plastic that we were supposed to use
to land
but I was there I was going to say okay your operation
have been approved
so they brought a rifle
I believe it was a German rifle
when a telescope inside
was in a box
it was not attached to the rifle
they told me how to attach it
and they told me once you do it
don't touch it it's already
sided to the distance you are going to shoot Fidel
they knew it
I had no idea where I was going to do it from
but apparently they knew the idea was
from Edificio Somayán to the presidential palace
they knew exactly this and
they have zero in that
side to that thing
so somebody went there beforehand
I don't know
I have no idea but they told me it was already presided
to the distance you are going to shoot me
the other is speculation on my part
then Segunda
and then they added one more mantel working
a radio operator was Javier Soto
he later he just retired
he was a senator
for the state of Florida local
state of Florida no federal
and he also was until
a year ago he was the commissioner
of Day County for
15-20 years
and he was my radio operator
Segunda worried about myself
and then he needed a box of 10 or 20 rounds
you only use maybe one, two or three
if you are lucky three
maybe only one
you don't use that many
you better do it on the first shoot
so they gave us the rifle
then they took us we went to the middle of the key
the boat was waiting for us and then they took
to a bigger boat
it was the only time that boat was used
for an operation it was a luxurious
jet from a millionaire
later on we were told
we didn't learn then later on it told me
that was the boat that belonged to sergeant Schreifer
a relative of President Kennedy
oh really?
it was a Ukrainian, Romanian crew
and one American captain
in charge of the plane
it was in late January
we went the first time
we got right to Valadero beach
there was supposed to be a boat
waiting for us to bring us in
to the safe house and then take us to the area
we were in the hands of the resistance
when we got in there
there was nobody waiting for us
we came back again
they waited for several days or whatever
then I think it was in February
we went back again
the second time in the area
were supposed to be because it was a huge boat
but it was a huge boat
it could not be, it was like 100 foot longer
wood
painted blue
I remember everybody was with the machine
we all have Soviet machine
all the crew was using brain machine
they were using American weapon
that's all Soviet weapon
and there were Ukrainian and Romanian personnel
they called it Alcone
it was recruited by the agency
put the lights around the boat
not a single soul
we came back again
then we tried to get again
I guess it was in the middle or later part of March
the boat broke
the speed of the boat went down
so we didn't even go off to Guillaume
we went back
and then to the right floor we said
your operations have been crushed
you are going ahead of the infiltration team
for Las Villas
so they added two more men to my team
there were three of us, there were five of us
and then we entered
in February 28th
you were ahead of the infiltration team
of Las Villas Promise in Cuba
same thing, we went by land
we had a guide
who walked
we came about four or five kilometers
through farms until we got to the main highway
and then a car would pick us up
to a tree at the time and take us to a safe house
in Havana
and then what happened?
they never talked again about killing Castro
they never what?
talked again about killing Castro
before you guys were shipped over there
did you guys do any practice?
you guys didn't have to practice?
that's amazing
right, but I know you were a good shooter
but didn't you guys have to
rehearse where he was going to be?
we were supposed to, they never did that
it's amazing
that's a lack of professionalism in my part
they didn't know how it should
well, maybe they had the record
yes, I am a good shooter
I am an expert shooter
they had the record from the
but normally
you are going to the San Felida
to shoot with the rifle you are going to use
that's the way it should be done
they didn't
somebody did the shooting
allegedly it was from Tyre, the only thing you have to do
is put the round there
and it's already zeroing
that's what's in the call of my attention
they should have put me in a range and shoot
was it just going to be you
or was there going to be multiple angles
you know they talk about the triangular hit teams
no, no, no, as far as I know it's only one person
just one shooter?
they didn't tell me
I don't think there was
later on they tried to do it from that location
with the bazooka
and the battery went dead
they couldn't do it
they got the bazooka and everything to shoot at Fidel with the bazooka
and
they understand that from the same location
they changed from the rifle to the bazooka
and the battery was down
but when they activated
maybe the guy was afraid of doing it
and they disconnected the battery and said they didn't work
I don't know
I just heard that they tried to do that with the bazooka
it didn't work because the battery was dead
have you heard the story about when Kennedy got shot
Castro there was a reporter
in the room with Castro meeting with him
and he got up
Castro his aide brought him the phone
and he picked up the phone
he listened to it for a minute
he put the phone down
and then he looked at the reporter and said
they're going to blame me for this
no
that's a
I think it was in Brazil
there was a documentary on Netflix
Cuba Libre
you were a part of that
they interviewed you in there
and it was one of the interviews
in Cuba Libre
the guy said that
the speculation is that
Castro, a lot of people like to blame Castro
for the Kennedy murder
Castro was involved
that's the problem
the FBI assassination is so
convoluted
there's so many theories
when we know the shooter too
Fabián Escalante
he was a Cuban colonel
he was a captain at the time
he was an expert shooter
he was in Dallas that day
Fabián Escalante he left with a private plane
to Mexico then another private plane from there to Cuba
really
and the United States knew that
and the United States covered up
the national security consideration
because remember
when the October cracks exploded
Cuba already had
four nuclear weapons inside
the island
that's why Cruzchef
felt so comfortable bringing
20 of them at a time
he said hey the Americans know
that I bring four missiles inside
they have done nothing
they can bring 20, they're not going to mine
and that's when
that's when they
he got to a turning point that they could not accept
to bring 20 more
and that's why
the Kennedy-Cruzchef treaty was never implemented
was he was the guy
what was his name again?
Fabián Escalante
was he a part of the Bay of Pigs at all
or Operation 40?
he was when Castro signed
he was a captain in Castro's army
and then he became a general
okay I heard
there's a lot of crazy theories
I heard one theory that
part of the guys that were
a part of the Operation 40
the anti-Castro Cubans were
a part of
the assassination
team for Kennedy
it's the three tramps theory
believe me when you look at the history
first of all
you're looking at Oswald
he was one of them
Oswald went to the Cuban embassy
first, Soviet Yemen
and the Cuban embassy in Mexico
it spent four to five hours inside the Cuban embassy
before he went back to Dallas
okay
the Cuban denied he was ever in the Cuban embassy
at the beginning, when it happened they say
it was not true, that he was never in the Cuban embassy
as time went by
and they learned that we had pictures
a movie of him going to the embassy
they went back to us because they were questioned
by the U.S. administration
I said oh yeah, it was a mistake
he literally went through the record
yes, Oswald visited the Cuban embassy
he was requesting a visa to go
to Cuba and we denied the visa
can you imagine going
to the Cuban embassy and
it would take five hours to deny a visa
to deny the visa to believe
maybe they would make him wait for
one hour
you don't delay a visa
five hours to tell the guy no
and one thing that is for sure
and he knew that and we knew that
if he doesn't kill
if Kenny were not killed
Fidel would not be there
I can guarantee you
that's why we started the operation with Artime
that then the president was assassinated
and I am convinced
that somehow
the guy who killed Bobby
Kenny was also Cuba had to do with it
really?
Bobby Kenny was more obsessed in killing Castro
than the president was, most of them
especially Bobby Kenny was a very good friend
of Harry Bruce William
that's why
he got in contact so close with us
when we were running the operation Central America
I was in between with the CIA
it was not the CIA personnel
it was Bobby Kennedy
all the time
and when Bobby Kennedy was
when John F. Kennedy
was assassinated
Artime went with
a couple of guys from the MRR
went to visit Bobby Kennedy to pay the condolence
because we were at that time in Central America
an operation that the president had approved
we had both of them
we had everything Costa Rica and Nicaragua
and what they told me
they recalled
the first scene that Bobby told our team
and the group was
my brother had two big enemies
the mafia
and Fidel Castro
I believe it was the last one who was assassinated
Fidel Castro
if Bobby Kenny was
involved in planning the assassination
of Fidel Castro and we sent
a silencer to
Spain to be given to a Cuban mayor
to assassinate Fidel
Bobby was well aware of the assassination attempt
do you think the U.S. would be
was somehow behind it
the United States, the military
no, not a chance
no chance
they have tried to blame
who was the guy
who wrote it down
there was
a mob guy
Santos
Santos Traficante
Traficante, yeah, yeah, yeah
yeah, he did a lot of Miami
he was in Miami
Santos Traficante
was he involved at all
with any of the
the hit squads
that were being trained
at all
because I heard that he was a part
that's bullshit
that's all bullshit
there was another Cuban here
I know he was working with the Cuban intelligence
and he used to swear
he worked for the CIA
he used to claim
that he had a meeting with a CIA guy
an Oswald in Dallas
before assassination
and the guy that he claimed
from the CIA when I talked to my friend
he was head of operation
at that time when Dallas happened
he was assigned in Africa
he was not even here
this guy knew him
he had been on television
he met Oswald
with this guy in Dallas
so I remember
let me see if I can remember his name
Cuban, well known
when they did a series
about 20 people
called
Achille
Exile Legends
I was the first one
I was the first legend and then people came behind
they had him
to make a
I asked him if this guy wanted to be
interviewed for legend at Achille
he said yes, don't call me on him
get somebody else, I am not interested
in being a legend
if this guy is going to be among this group
forget it, don't do it
they took him out of that
son of a bitch
he was working for Cuba
whenever you tell him Cuba participated
in the assassination of Kennedy
he would go crazy
Cuba had nothing to do with the assassination of Kennedy
he defended that tremendously
what is your
thought
on the moral question
of assassinations
versus war
because the
the way it's supposed to go
is the first step
when it comes to international conflicts
is diplomacy
the second step
is war
and the third step is title 50
assassinations
but there is a huge moral question
that a lot of people argue
it would save
a lot of lives
and
a lot of money
if
assassination came before
war
it all depends
all the circumstances are different
for example
people ask me questions about torturing
I don't believe in torturing
but
there is a point in time
put yourself
you are a professional
interrogator
ok
and you are convinced
that this guy knows
where there is
atomic artifact
Washington DC
he knows
there is no question about
you are convinced
that he knows that
what would you do
or not do
to make sure that that thing doesn't explode
ok
so
in a situation like that
and you are convinced
to me you can go to an extreme
right
you can take his eyes out
you can kill his mother
his brother
his sister
a baby in the head can be an innocent guy
in front of him
if you talk
you save
5 million or 4 million people
there is no limit
to what you do
only
but the thing is
the problem with that is
that maybe the people would use this
without being really justified
you can use this and say
really it's not the case
that's the problem
implementing something like that
it takes a special kind of person
you are talking about 5 million people
my friend
hundreds of babies like that little one
hundreds
it's not thousands
little kids mother father
you are talking about saving
so would you sacrifice
yes
you have to be true
you definitely have to be convinced
sure there is no question in your mind
anyway
that the guy knew exactly what that thing is
and this goes back to
the Billy Waw thing when he was in
the tomb
and he had many opportunities
to shoot and kill Bin Laden
instead he was taking photos
and he could not get the authorization
to kill Bin Laden
when if he would have killed Bin Laden
it would have saved thousands of lives
but he didn't know that really
right it's all right
it's all hindsight
now we know that we have the people in the tower
but he really don't know that exactly
but we have really convinced
the DEA
forget what the rules are
even if you go to prison
you save millions of people
it works well yes
there is a documentary out there
I know you are familiar with it
but there is a documentary out there
about the DEA agent
in Latin America
or in Mexico
and there is people that
in that documentary they accuse you
of being tied to the murder of the DEA agent
yeah we have been aware of that
what is your response to those people
I know
an absolute lie
first of all
I can prove where I was during that day
and especially now
I have
since I knew what was happening
I was taking note of the thing that I do every day
okay
and now more
in 1993 I started writing everything in detail
what I do every day
you tell me that I did something
1995
September 4
3 o'clock in the afternoon
I can tell you exactly where I was
who do I met, what I did, what did I eat
everything
the day I was supposed to be killing Kiki Kamare
I had a phone call with the White House
that's when they called me that day
to tell me that General Gorman wanted to talk to me
and they gave me a phone number to call General Gorman
in Panama
they had a meeting with Perry Rifkin
the Director of Immigration here in Miami
with Pedro Raboreo
the Major of the City of West Miami
because we had three Nicaraguan
of contra fighters
who have been very badly wounded
one called El Tigrito
he had a bullet through his face here
all this thing was hanging down
he destroyed his banditula
and half of his thong everything
and the other two were paralyzed
and we were able to get through a friend of mine
in the hospital of Rekare
in Cuba which is now
I guess he
owes a lot of to ARS
he's hiding in Spain I believe
he was going to allow his hospital
to attend these people for free
these people had no documentation
to travel, they had no passport
so I got the Lieutenant Colonel
from the Italian
from the Honduran intelligence service
to issue
a document
with their identity document
with their picture
height, altitude, weight
and all of this shit in detail
and then I went with Pedro Raboreo
to see Perry Rifkin
the Director of Immigration to see
he was allowed to get in that paper
which is not a passport a humanitarian visa
so I had the record
Dave's record with the device
me talking to the White House that day
and then talking to all of these people
going to immigration
what country were you in
what country were you in that day
Miami, oh you were in Miami
we were talking to Perry Rifkin
Director of Immigration here in Miami
and Pedro Raboreo was the mayor of the city of West Miami
we both went to see the Director of Immigration
here and he agreed
he agreed to get the visa and we brought
the three kids here finally
we got the three kids to fly to the United States
by Challenger
and then the second day it was supposed to be in Mexico
I hang out the airport picking up
with Raboreo at the door of the plane
the challenge the three wounded people
to take it to the hospital
so I have more than a record
now another thing
they used the name Max Gomez
in that month
in 1985 I didn't know
McMovex 60 I didn't have that name at all
three months later
when I went to fly to El Salvador
my friend Luis Rodriguez
Lieutenant Colonel when I got there
in 2006 you have to use another name here
not your true name
when you come to fly as a volunteer here
I am going to give you the name of Maximo Gomez
Maximo Gomez was
a Dominican
Sergeant in the Army in Dominican who became
not
Generalissimo in the Cuban War of Independence
it was Dominican
he said Dominican who flew
for the freedom of Cuba
you are a Cuban flying for the freedom of El Salvador
so I want to give you
the number of Maximo Gomez
so when I supposedly was in Mexico
using Maximo Gomez
nobody knew that name
the name didn't exist at that time
they came out two or three months later
when I went to El Salvador
Do you think it's possible there was
a CIA agent there
during the torture at Kiki?
No
Bullshit
What the guy is saying is that
what they claim is that
it's the CIA
but yes
I have the copy
because I called the DA people
and I contacted the guy
from the DA and said
let me send you what the DA put out
the same day that this guy
started telling that they were the one
CIA involving Kiki Camarena
the name was David Wilson
David Wilson was
not recently
seen on Amazon
Prime they had the last NARC
they dedicated the 4th chapter to me
when that thing happened
this guy
David Wilson was the director
of the retiree from the DA
which is not called the DA retiree
they are called association of federal
former narcotics agents
that's the signal for the retiree
from the DA
that day he put a paper
I have a copy of it to all the DA retirees
saying they had no idea why these two
agents were lying about
they didn't help
the first of all they just claimed
that he was in charge of Kiki Camarena
he was never in charge of Kiki Camarena's death
investigation at all
and they didn't know why they were lying
because that will hurt the real
the real guy who did it
who was Caro Quintero
and Caro Quintero did it because
he confiscated a huge farm
in Mexico that was producing
like a billion dollar in money
every year
and that he got so pissed off
at Kiki Camarena then he
actually kidnapped Kiki Camarena
and then tortured him killing
at the beginning this asshole said that they had
movie of me doing that
they have video of you
they said it was classified
then they didn't talk anymore about the video
they didn't talk about the recording
they could not present it because it's not true
I was not even in Mexico during that time
and at least
the agency
they claimed that the CIA
was involved
because the CIA had an agreement
with these people from the cartel
to allow the drug to come to the United States
and they were receiving money for the Contras
and they claimed that the Contras were trained
in a Finca Veracruz
they called it the Yucatún Finca Veracruz
I think it was called that the Contras were trained
there is not one single Contra
ever trained in Mexico
as then to produce one Contra
that said that it was trained in Mexico
it was a lie
not a single Contra, all the Contras were trained
was in Honduras
How do you think your name got mixed up into all of it
just because you were involved with the Contras?
No, no, well first of all you got Kerry
got me involved in narcotrafficking
which isn't true
even though he apologized afterwards
the Cuban government have been saying that
for a long time that I had tortured and assassinated
and now I appear
in the list of the most
wanted people from Cuba
fortunately
Interpol will not take
that at the value
they have 40 people
they just put it out 10 days ago
big leaf
accusing all of us of being terrorists
my name is in it
there is Ninoz Caperes Castellón
the newspaper lady from here
also her name appeared in there
Basulto from Vuelta Rezcu
are terrorists for them
Cuba have accused me
of everything except one thing
they have never accused me of being a queer
other than that
every single thing in the book
they are throwing at me
except that
Well, you're doing good on that front I guess
Felix
thank you so much for doing this
it's an honor to talk to you
your life has been a movie
I would say the least
is there anything else
do you have a website
or do you have a book
people can find that you've written
or is there anything people can do
to contact you if they want to talk to you
when we talk to you
and you tell me
Well, Felix, thanks again
I'm really grateful for your time today
and that's all folks
thank you
alright, thank you Felix
