Your book is fascinating, Black Ops, and as well as Annie Jacobson's book where she
mentioned you, Surprise Kill Vanish, where she talks about some of the wilder aspects
of the CIA, I think it's called rendition teams, where they have to go in and kidnap
people or basically do kind of like the dirty work, the hands-on work.
In your book, you quoted George Orwell, you said, in the sleep, we sleep safely in our
beds because rough men stand ready in the night to do violence on those who would harm
us.
What does that quote mean to you?
Well, it means that people need to realize the risks that our warriors take.
And I'm not just talking about the agency, I'm talking about our special military guys,
I'm talking about our DEA counterparts, DEA counterparts.
The risks that some of our men and women take to keep us sleeping nice at night, most people
do not, they cannot grasp that.
The vision of the agency is primarily Hollywood.
And so everybody associates it with Jason Bourne, a maniacal assassin with 17 personalities
doing something that Congress doesn't know about.
That's all BS.
And the drug dealing CIA and the honey traps, none of that is true.
So that's the difference.
I mean, I started out as a paramilitary officer, I'm a former Air Force para-rescueman, which
is part of our special operations forces, and became a legitimate case officer and had
legitimate case officer jobs and ranks, but I was more on the go out and do it even though
I was a senior guy.
So you weren't a political guy, you were more on the ground, hands on, dealing with human
beings, which is, it gives your book, what I love about your book is it's a first hand
perspective of being on the ground, dealing with human beings in some of these situations.
And you may, in your time working, for example, in Honduras or Costa Rica, you weren't necessarily
paying attention to all the politics, the things that were going around, things that
were going on behind the scenes or what was happening in the media.
How do you think about your career now?
How old are you now?
I'm 72.
So when you reflect on your childhood and your career, your upbringing, all the different
things that you've done, all the countries you've been on, all the countries you've been
to, when you think about it, how do you reflect, what do you think about the CIA now that you've
been through everything and that you're able to sit back and look at the big picture?
Well, first of all, I've lived a charmed life.
For a young kid like myself that came to this country as an immigrant and to end up working
as a senior officer in the CIA, that was a dream to come true.
I wouldn't change anything in my life and I don't regret anything that I did in my life,
especially professionally.
The agency still, look, again, it's an organization, make of human beings, and we do have black
sheeps here and there, just like the FBI does, people that reveal secrets, whatever it is.
But for the most part, what I really treasure from my days, my 24-plus years, is, first
and foremost, the people, the quality of people that we have.
And there's a vignette I'll tell you a little later about the kind of persons that actually
work at CTC that will do that more than the 9-11 part.
But you hit on something a little earlier, which was politics.
The problem is you cannot run special operations, whether they're military or intelligence or
drug interventions, through an optic of politics.
Politics would always be the break on anything that operators are capable to do it.
So I'm very proud of the agency.
The agency has something that nobody else has, which is Title 50 authorities.
Title 50 authorities means that whatever the president of the United States signs that
you can go do, you can go do.
So, military has Title 10, which means they can do anything that they're told to do in
a war theater.
So for example, when the Navy SEALs so rightfully shot Mulan in the face, it was CIA's Alex
station that I helped start, who had tracked them down and that SEAL team was under agency
on paper control because they have to use Title 50 authorities because they were not
in a war theater.
It was done in Pakistan.
Now obviously we're going to go deep into that on this podcast, but on that specific
mission where the team went in there to kill bin Laden, there was a lot of red tape they
had to maneuver around to make that happen because of the bureaucracy and because of
the laws that were in place.
Those guys were SEALs, right?
But they were officially for that mission, they were CIA.
They were attached to the CIA for the authorities, for the legal authorities.
You're talking international law here.
When you do this kind of thing in somebody else's country, that is an act of war.
So they had to weigh in, the president's the only one that could do that and he only
signs Title 50 stuff.
Okay.
So let's go, going back to the beginning, your childhood.
What was your childhood like being born in Cuba and being raised in Cuba during the revolution?
Well, it started out as a wonderful childhood.
My dad was actually a cowboy, literally a cowboy, ran my grandfather's ranch until he
married my mom and she domesticated him and he became a businessman.
So at the age of six, I had a horse before I had a bicycle.
I had a BB gun at the age of six.
It was great life.
My dad had a 57 Pontiac in 1959.
So it was a nice middle class, very close to the family.
My grandparents lived across the street.
The other ones lived behind us.
So it was a very family town, a small town, but that changed.
And the first part that it started changing was when the rebel attacks actually started
happening in my town.
The town that I lived in, I was Manikarawa, was at the foothills of the Acecumbride Mountains,
which is where Che Guevara had his rebels.
So the town that I was at got hit several times as harassments.
Well, my parents were gone and I had a nanny, she was like 13 years old and I'm eight or
seven or whatever.
And a huge firefight in front of the house and I literally went up to the window and
opened up the window.
Well, that's the first time I saw somebody get shot.
And then what I didn't notice is on the other side of the parapet was a guerrilla fighter
with an automatic rifle and he pops up right in front of my face, starts shooting that
way.
All the spent rounds are hitting the jealousy window in front of me.
It's kind of a wake-up call for a seven-year-old.
And then what continued was how quickly communism evasorated the freedom that the Cuban people
were enjoying.
I'm not saying that Batista was great.
I'm not saying that changes did not need to be made.
But for me, communism will never be the solution.
You figure when they confiscated my dad's business six months after Castro took over
roughly, and he decided we were going to leave the country and we moved to Havana.
And when, first time that we drove to Havana to stay there, the first thing I saw was three
guys hanging from trees with signs around their neck that said counter-revolutionaries.
That was politics six months after he took over.
So a lot of it is glossed with Che Guevara photos and the idealic revolutionary.
They murdered more people than second only to the Nazis, I guess.
How old were you when you saw this?
I was probably around nine when I saw the guys hanging from the trees because, well,
I was ten because, well, no, nine because a year later is that I was able to leave and
I turned 11 in the orphanage, so I left when I was ten.
And how long did you stay in Cuba during that time before you escaped on the freedom
flights?
I left in 1962, April's 1962, and actually it was part of the freedom flights, but my
parents couldn't get out because my parents' own property that people were still fighting
over is part of the attrition process when you say that you're leaving the country, everything's
as confiscated, so they wouldn't let my parents go.
And there was a Catholic church program called Peter Pan, Pedro Pan, and that brought out
thousands of Cuban kids whose parents could not come out.
So that's how I came out in 1962 by myself to an orphanage in Pueblo, Colorado.
And then how long did it take before you went back down to Miami?
Nine months.
My parents got out about eight months later and it took a little bit of time to get me
back down there.
So when you first got to Colorado and then went to Miami, what was America to you?
And what was your perception, how different was it from how you perceived it would be?
Well, at that age, perception of a country that's outside of yours is almost nonexistent,
even though my dad had educated me about everything really early on.
But you've got to understand that the first part of it is a shock, even though I was raised
to be the little man, be stoic, be this, be that, you know, men don't do this, men don't
do that.
So I had a little bit more backbone than the average 10-year-old, but you're still on a
flight to a country that you've never been, no matter what great stories you've heard.
You don't know what to expect.
And then of course I go from landing in Miami and two weeks later I'm in an orphanage in
the Pueblo Colorado and an orphanage is an orphanage is an orphanage.
You know, we had three or four different ethnicities and languages there and a lot of pissed off
kids because nobody likes being an orphan.
So it was rough, discipline had to be rough because there was a lot of violence.
But I still, I cope with it fairly well.
When my parents came out and I went back down to Miami, we were living, you know, subpoverty.
I mean, we were, my dad didn't have a dime to his name, everything he had lost back in
the country.
My aunt and my two cousins had also left.
So it was six of us living in a one-bedroom, roach-infested, what do you call it, efficiency
apartment in a real seedy area in Miami at the time.
That's how we started here.
But you know what?
My dad started mowing lawns, started unloading trucks.
He had learned carpentry as a kid and he was an artisan actually.
And that's where he gravitated.
He bought some tools for this lawnmower money and all that and, you know, two or three years
later he bought this first house.
So it was very different than my original life and it was rougher than the average lives.
But we became part of the American dream very quickly and I gave my dad a lot of credit
for that because we had been in this country maybe a year, a year and a half and the dream
of a lot of the Cuban families that were leaving is that someday they'd be able to go back
to Cuba.
My father, a year and a half into the country here, he says, we're not leaving, we're staying.
So we go visit, but we're staying.
Would you have stayed even if Castro wasn't there anymore, if it would have gone back
to normal, what it was like pre-Castra, would you have still stayed?
That was his decision and that was the point.
When Castro falls, everybody's going to flood back, we're not going.
We're staying here.
We're going to become Americans.
And my dad and our family, the three of us, we got our residency, the day we could get
our residency, we got our citizenship, the day we could get our citizenship.
And my dad, I lost him about seven years ago, until the day he died, he never missed a
voting opportunity, never, ever missed voting since he became a citizen.
When you were being raised by your parents, did they teach you Spanish and English at
the same time?
I was learning English on the outside, but at home Spanish was the language.
So when you first came here, English was, you still had a little bit of English or none?
When I first got here, I had to say two words, yes and no.
And one of the benefits of the orphanage besides the immersion, and there was very few Spanish-speaking
kids there, was the fact that all I had to do was go to school and learn to read and
write in English.
Everything was spot-run, C-spot-run, little books from the 50s that we had to memorize.
So by the time that I came down to Miami, I was helpful to help my family ask for directions
or make an appointment or something like that.
And so in your early days growing up in Miami, when you guys started to get your foothold
in the country, what were some of the things that you were doing to make money?
What sort of foundational things were you learning from your dad that helped you turn into what
you turned into today?
Well, my dad was big about responsibility and consequences.
So in the summers, I worked every summer.
Even when I was 13 years old, I would go with him to his work when he was now doing boats
and he got into the boat refurbishing business and pick up trash, dust the things off, vacuum
things.
I was always working.
But it was also bonding with my dad because we're doing stuff together for months at a
time.
So yeah, the ethos was there, the work ethic was there.
But what I think that I can give my dad the most credit for, besides being the best parent
I could have had, was the fact that he inculcated to us the responsibility to look for freedom
and provide freedom for your family in whichever capacity that is.
You know, doctor, lawyer, Indian chief, I don't care.
If you're donating from your time to a cause that makes life better for other people.
So that was the mantra from my dad and that's what he loved about the United States because
I was the very public ethos of the United States.
So you became, one of your first jobs was working as a paramedic, is that right?
No.
I actually went through the military first.
Oh, you went through the military first.
Yeah, that's correct.
Yeah, I worked a bunch of manual labor jobs for the summer before my senior year.
I loaded and unloaded trucks and the factory my dad was forming of and I was the only teenager
there.
Everybody else were adults and you're loading trucks in July in Florida was a lot of fun.
But I went into, for my senior year I got a job at a clothing store which helped me
a lot because I learned a lot about dressing up and that kind of stuff.
And then when I started junior college there was a couple of things that happened that
kind of triggered my guilt.
I said, you know, I have a debt of honor to this country and that's why I first started
with Air Force Paral Rescue which was my first real job.
How did you decide you were going to get into Air Force Paral Rescue?
Did you know somebody?
Did you have a friend?
I know throughout school and stuff you kind of had a rough, you got into martial arts
very early.
You got into a lot of scraps with a lot of people on the streets in Miami.
Did that have anything to do with you wanting to get into the military?
I think it was, look, I believe that God puts people in their path to do what they're supposed
to do and if they're willing to pay the price of admission they'll always have a good life.
And God will groom you and work your metal.
So from my childhood he started forging my blade.
That's my retrospective now that I can look back.
So yeah, when I was in high school I was a B student with D for behavior because I was
always getting in fights.
And it was the times too.
I mean, you know, you had the white kids and the Hispanic kids and the black kids all going
in the same schools and there was a lot of friction there.
It's part of the growing pains of any democracy.
But so I hung up what you would call the rough crowd.
Not necessarily all bad crowd, just the rough.
Half of the guys were cops, the other became thieves and I became a spy.
But so the military was always, I've always read a lot and for me especially, but I didn't
know anything about the military.
I didn't know anything, I didn't know the difference between Army, Navy, Air Force before you could
Google things, right?
And again, the Prado luck.
I was in an oceanography class and there was a guy that sat next to me, we became friends,
Glenn Richardson.
And he had been a PJ and he was now in the reserves with Para Rescue.
And there was a pivotal moment for me at the college which coincided with me meeting Glenn.
You know, this is 1971-ish and the hippies was a big deal, you know, the anti-war protesters
so the hippies at Miami-Dade Junior College announced that tomorrow we're going to take
down the flag and we're going to burn it, come join us.
I went, that ain't going to happen.
I didn't have any friends in college yet.
So I called my homies from high school, had four of them come over and let's just say
that when they try to lower that flag, they didn't get very far.
There was like 30 of them and it was four or five of us but they were running and we
were hitting.
But here's the moral of the story though.
When I finished that, I looked up and I could, it's tattooed in my brain, I could see that
American flag flying in a blue sky and it was the first time in my whole life that I
was proud of doing violence.
And I'd say four months later I was in Para Rescue or in the pipeline to become a Para
Rescue man.
Wow.
That's heavy, man.
So when you first got into Para Rescue, what was that like?
Well, like you said, I got into the martial arts real early and I was fit and I lifted
weights and that's what I do in Taekwondo.
I started out with karate, I eventually did Taekwondo also and Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
I dabbled around because of my travels.
But the main thing with Para Rescue is I thought I was a tough guy going in there and realized
that I wasn't that tough.
It was brutal.
You were a swimmer first, right?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, the Para Rescue, the job of Para Rescue is to bring back from denied areas
down pilots or special operations units that are stuck out there.
So the first thing that we have to be is really, really good medics because people when they're
in that shape, they're usually screwed up.
But in order to do the task, I mean, at the end of Para Rescue, you're an EMT2 level,
just like you have in the fire departments.
Could you have to be mountain climbing qualified, scuba qualified, airborne qualified, guns
and everything else?
So it's the physical training, the pipeline for all special operations forces, whether
it's Green Berets, SEALs, Air Force Special Operations Groups like Para Rescue and Combat
Controllers, Marine Recon, the attrition rate is all the same, 80% out of every hundred
guys that tries, 80 fail.
So like I said, I thought I was a tough kid until I was puking for the first three days
and then I got the hang of it.
And how long did you do that for?
I did two years active and then the rest was reserves.
I did about six years, I did eight years total and it was during my, well, when I went to
fooling through the reserves, because again, after Vietnam, everything was being shrunken
down.
The military was decimated, they were asking people to leave more than anything else.
The agency was firing all kinds of people.
So I joined the fire department in Miami, so I rode rescue for six years as a firefighter
paramedic.
Yeah.
What was that like the end of the Vietnam War when, what was the vibe in the military
like during that time after all that went down?
Devastating.
You figure, I did not get to go to Vietnam, which I regretted all my life except now I
could look back and I said, I would be here if that was the case.
Like I said, I wanted to, I joined parorescue because I wanted to go to Vietnam.
I wanted to fight.
Oh, if you wanted to go.
I wanted to go to Vietnam.
As a matter of fact, we had a draft at the time and my number, the higher the number,
the less chances you were going to be called and my number was so high and I was in college
and my parents were so happy that they celebrated the fact that he can go in the military while
I volunteered.
What made a kid like you at that young age want to go fight in Vietnam?
I was struck with the bug of what this country is all about, the price that I was willing
to pay to maintain this country and the debt of honor primarily and I think that's probably
the number one thing was the debt of honor that my family has, notice I say has because
it's never paid to this country and that's the only service that I knew was the military.
I never contemplated being a police officer, but again, got a lot of respect for those
guys.
They got a very tough job also.
Back to the Vietnam era mentality, you figure even though I had not set foot in Vietnam,
I remember coming back from Hill Air Force Base for home leave the first time and we
had to probably in uniform and I'm walking down and of course I got my beret and my jump
wings and people would stop and spit on the ground in front of you.
Now it's very refreshing because somebody is sitting down and they see their military,
somebody will thank you for your service or I got the tab, I've done that several times,
just pay the tab and leave.
You've done it for other people?
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, wow.
All the time.
I'll be at an airport, I've seen a couple of military guys are having breakfast, I'll
call the waitress and go put that one on me.
I know how badly we were treated and these guys and gals deserve a lot better than that.
They're the reason we have what we have.
The country really was in an uproar after the Vietnam War and you were in, so you were
still in para rescue when that all happened?
Yeah, I went into para rescue December of 71, late 71 and I got my beret, I think it
was early 73, which Vietnam was obviously pretty much shutting down and I still had
some post-barret training that I had to do and all this stuff, advanced mountain climbing
and advance parachuting and all this crap, but that time that's when Vietnam was officially
shutting down, so there was no chance.
Did you at that age, you said you were very well read at that age, you spent a lot of
time reading.
Was it about history?
Did you read a lot about the history of the United States?
Did you read a lot about the history of the 50s and the 60s with the CIA and Kennedy and
all that stuff?
Were you familiar with all that?
First of all, I was infatuated with the OSS, which was the predecessor for the agency during
World War II, that was my main reading.
I had, growing up, I had three American heroes, one was Teddy Roosevelt, Wyatt Earp and Wild
Bill Donovan.
Wild Bill Donovan's the guy that started the OSS.
So any book that had to do with the resistance, the French resistance, all these guys doing
all this stuff, I read a lot of those, I have to admit I read every James Bond novel ever
made as a kid.
So all that is back there, you feel the urge or the attraction into having that kind of
purpose and I can tell you honestly, neither in para rescue nor in the CIA that I ever
wake up one morning and go, man, I got to go to work, never, never.
When I was in the three years that I slept in a jungle hammock in Central America, never
did I wake up in the morning and go, what the hell am I doing here?
I always find it so fascinating how people who come from some of the most adverse environments
have just like that burning desire in their belly to do something and they're always,
they're so interesting and they are just, it's, they find a mission in life compared
to people who kind of like grow up wealthy or grow up with the silver spoon in their
mouth, people who come from places like you came from in Cuba during that time and seeing
some of the shit you saw when you were really young and the drive and the motivation that
you had to do something and to, and to, you had like a sense of purpose at such a young
age.
I find that fascinating.
Yeah.
You know, and I'm very proud of that.
I'm very proud of the fact that all three of my kids turned out exactly the same, both
my, but my sons are military and my daughters even more, she was a school principal.
So she's the toughest of the three.
But yeah, I mean, for, for me, that purpose was driven, but it wasn't, it wasn't solely
unique and it wasn't solely because of the poverty that we lived through and, you know,
the getting, getting ahead better.
For me, it was having seen what Cuba was, seeing what Cuba became so quickly and then
coming to a country where everything was right compared to the rest of the world.
So falling in love with the United States was a very easy thing.
But again, my father was my first hero.
He was my first mentor and he always taught me about nothing is free in life.
And that applies to freedom.
Freedom is not free.
Did you ever have that fear after being in the United States that this could happen here
too?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by ExpressVPN.
When you use the bathroom, you always close the door behind you, right?
You don't want some random passerby looking at you.
So why would you let people look in on you when you go online?
Using the internet without ExpressVPN is like using the bathroom and not shutting the door.
Did you know that internet service providers like AT&T and Verizon know every single website
you visit?
And what's worse is they sell this information to ad companies and tech giants who will use
that data to target you.
ExpressVPN puts a stop to all of this.
It creates a secure encrypted tunnel between you and your device and the internet so that
your online activity can't be seen by anyone.
I personally love using ExpressVPN because Netflix only gives you a small fraction of
their entire content library, depending on where you're located.
But with ExpressVPN, you can access 100% of their content library, giving you access to
thousands of more shows.
And the best part is using ExpressVPN is as easy as closing the bathroom door.
All you gotta do is fire up the app, press one button, and you're protected.
ExpressVPN is the world's number one rated VPN by TechRadar, The Verge, and Countless Others.
So if you're like me and you think your online activity is your business, secure yourself
by visiting expressvpn.com forward slash Danny today.
Use my link and get an extra three months for free.
It's expressvpn.com forward slash Danny.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
That remains today.
I mean, I'm for people like myself without my background and not just the paramilitary
ninja stuff, but just Americans, now Americans that come from a communist regime.
The scariest thing is this worldwide trend going far left.
You name me one single country that is under communism that is thriving.
But as well, it's got more oil than anybody else in this continent.
They're starving to death.
Cuba in nine, before Castro took over in Cuba, Cuba had the first or second highest living
conditions in Latin America.
The Cuban peso was equal to the US dollar.
So tell me, you know, where communism makes a country better, I haven't, I've yet to see
it.
Right.
You see it in Poland, you see in all these countries that all of a sudden, they're freed
and they thrive.
So.
Yeah, even like Cuba today, when's the last time you went to Cuba?
I've never, I've never gone back.
I can't.
Are you kidding?
Right, right, right.
I'd be in jail probably the minute I got out of the airport.
Really?
Of course.
You don't have any desire to just like walk those streets one more time?
Absolutely.
It's one of my dreams.
My wife is also Cuban born.
She went through a lot of stuff herself.
And that's always been in the back of our minds.
We want to take our children out there and show them our modest homes, you know, where
my grandparents live, go visit the graves of my parents.
The beauty of Cuba, Cuba is a beautiful country.
But first of all, my dad did not subscribe to the idea of putting any money in these
guys' pockets, right, in Cuba.
And the second one for me was, you know, once I became a CIA officer, that's not a place
you want to go, especially after I get more senior where, you know, I'm known and everything
else.
I wouldn't last a day in the streets in Havana.
Really?
Oh, they'd put an ounce of coke in my car, in my suitcase and put me in jail for 20 years.
Imagine the headlines.
Cuban born CIA spy caught smuggling dope into Havana.
They would have a field day.
And, you know, the government could throw all the lawyers at me that again.
I would still do 10 years there before it goes out, so the answer is no.
Why can't we be friends with Cuba?
Why can't we figure out a way to make it work?
I never understood that.
Well, I think you got to look at it from the other side.
What is it that Cuba does not want to be friendly with the United States?
Is that it, though?
They're the ones?
Well, you look, they...
Because Obama opened it up, right?
Well, Obama opened it up.
I mean, we're talking current history.
I'm talking about, you know, the roots of this whole thing.
Right, right, right.
You know, when, when, when Cuba, Castro came into Cuba with the false pretense of he being
the savior.
We're going to have better democracy.
We're going to have better this.
We have better that.
He never admitted during the early days that he was a communist.
Shortly thereafter, a couple of years later, he actually physically, you know, signed treaties
with the Soviet Union.
So that became a pariah state 90 miles away from our country.
So we're natural enemies.
It's like asking why do Palestinians cannot get away, you know, along with the Israelis?
Because both sides have suffered incredible atrocities and it's personal.
So in, in the sense of the United States, we have a duty to protect not only the world,
but definitely our hemisphere, which we're not doing.
That's a pet peeve.
We were not paying attention at all what's going on in Latin America.
But for us to continue, I would love to open up some kind of dialogue with Cuba.
Yeah.
But there's certain things they have to do.
And one of them is to have free elections.
Cuba has had the same leadership for 62 years.
Castro went through the other Castro, the other after Castro retired, he still runs
the show through the president, president, which runs every four years without opposition
and with a guaranteed, you know, job that he's going to win.
So the other is you have to understand that there is a price for crime that you have to
pay the, the people don't understand the thousands of people that that regime has killed.
I'll give you an example, I've been in Europe many times, I'll see kids walking around with
the Shaguevara shirt.
Oh yeah.
I want to knock them out because what the people don't understand, he was that glorified
the, the romantic, you know, gorilla that was out there, that was the shining light
for freedom.
You know what he used to do?
A lot of bad things.
He would take political prisoners, bring them out to the courtyard.
So the rest of the prisoners could see, he would put three of them on poles and he would
walk up with a revolver and go click, boom, boom or click.
Just like roulette.
Just like Russian roulette and he did that weekly.
When you look at the thousands and thousands of Cubans who have perished trying to leave
that island at the bottom of the ocean here in the Gulf, those are all criminal acts and
the oppression.
Like I said, you know, six, seven months into the revolution, there were people hanging
from trees because they, in school, the first thing after he took over, when I was, when
I was in school still, they would tell you, if your parents say anything bad about Castro
or the revolution, it is your duty to report it.
And there's kids that did.
Just like China and just like North Korea.
Exactly.
I mean, there's no state.
Yeah.
Well, for people who don't aren't familiar with Shaguevara, can you give me some sort
of context around who he was and where he came from?
Shaguevara, you were talking about a moneyed kid.
His father was a doctor.
He was Argentine.
And he had real leftist ideas even there because, you know, again, he was living, he was upper
class but he was living, it's nice, it's easy to be a communist when you're going home and
having champagne or lobster.
Right.
I have no, I mean, if people want to leave the United States to go to Cuba because they
like communism, hey, go for it.
But so he came, he joined revolutionary groups.
He got radicalized as he was.
And he ended up hooking up with Castro, even though he was Argentine, he became a very
key figure in the Castro regime.
Castro had a reputation and a penchant for getting rid of competition.
The first real hero of the Cuban Revolution was a guy named Camilo and can't remember
his last name, but Camilo was, he was a God.
People loved him because he was charismatic.
He had fought, you know, Castro didn't fight, you know, these guys, he had fought.
This guy was, well, when he started getting too popular, he went up on an airplane to
go somewhere and, gee, the plane blew up.
Rumor has it that that's why he sent Che to Bolivia because he was getting too popular
in Cuba.
And he said, you know, we got this here, why don't you go help us foment these problems
in other places?
That's when he went to Bolivia and that's where we got him.
How long ago, what year did we get him?
You have friends that were a part of that force that got him, right?
Yeah, I can't remember the year, but Che was in Bolivia, I guess it was the early 70s,
probably late 60s or something like that, but anyway, he was in Bolivia trying to run
in an insurgency and he was doing a real shitty job of it.
I mean, he was stealing food to survive kind of thing.
And the agency, the CIA, well, the Bolivian government asked for help trying to counter
this new threat in the country and they send out a team, like we always do, to help them
work better.
We give them communications, we give them intel, we teach them what to do, whatever it
was.
And there's one particular individual which I am very honored of having known and continuing
in touch with him is Felix Rodriguez.
Felix Rodriguez was a Bay of Pig veteran, came to the United States, joined Green Berets,
did Vietnam, came out, went to work for the agency.
But during the time that he was deployed down there in Bolivia, he is the one that is credited
for helping the Bolivians track him down and hunt him down.
So the only reason I'm familiar with Felix Rodriguez is that we spoke on the phone about,
I saw that documentary, The Last Narc, about Kiki Camarena.
And there, you know, he was, for people that don't know who Kiki, I doubt there's many
people who don't know who Kiki was, but he was a, correct me if I mess any of this up,
but he was a DEA agent stationed in Guadalajara, I believe, fighting the cartels in the 80s.
And he was murdered by one of the cartels and apparently there was a CIA officer in the
room he was being tortured in who was talking to him and part of his murder.
There was a, there's multiple sources, whether it be DEA agents or other cartel members who
said there was a CIA guy in there.
And according to The Last Narc, Felix Rodriguez was the CIA officer that was in there.
I've heard those rumors, but they don't add up.
We did not get into the counter-narcotics side of the business until waiting the 80s.
The CNC, which was the first center, counter-narcotics center, wasn't created until the early 80s.
So the fact that there was a CIA person there, I would like to see the proof.
And internally, I have never heard anybody say, yeah, we had somebody there.
Do you think the CIA is at all working with or using the cartels in Mexico or has been
for the last few decades?
We're prohibited from doing that.
Really?
Yeah, by literally by statute.
We can infiltrate them by recruiting people or something like that, but cutting deals
with narcos or cutting deals with terrorists, that's a bad business because sooner or later
you're going to be compromised.
So no, the CIA or the US government was not selling cocaine from Mexico in Los Angeles
to undermine the minorities.
That's the reason, again, that I wrote the book.
Because when you hang out for 25 years and you rub shoulders with the kind of people
that I rub shoulders with, and when you walk in the shadow of the giants that I saw in
Paral Rescue and the ones that I saw in the CIA, you understand the morality of, again,
I'm not saying that we had aims.
We've had people that are traitors that deserve to be shot, as far as I'm concerned.
And I just put in jail.
But the greater, greater majority of the people that serve in our military, especially a special
military, in our federal agencies like the DEA, like the FBI, like the CIA, are way above
average when it comes to morality, conviction, and patriotism.
Right.
But we have a lot of interest in Mexico, number one.
Number two, it's right on our southern border.
And there's a lot of foreign interest in Mexico, including China, which is big.
I know.
They're buying a lot of land in there, including lithium mines.
So why wouldn't we?
The same way Russia would have agents in Ukraine, as well as we do, why wouldn't we want to have
people in there gathering intelligence?
Well, we could have people in there gathering intelligence, and we do.
There's a difference between gathering intelligence and cutting deals with drug traffickers.
Correct.
Okay.
You know, hey, listen, I'll tell you what.
I'll cut you some slack.
You can bring the dope in as long as you tell me what he's doing, and I'll take him out for
you.
That's movie stuff.
Okay.
That's movie stuff.
We're not allowed to do that kind of stuff.
Now what we are allowed to do is to recruit locals that are on the fringe of narcotics
and teach them how to swim upstream, and now they get into the trusted level, and now you
have a validated reporting source on particular things.
But that's very hard to do.
People don't understand.
People go like, why can't you penetrate Al Qaeda?
Are you an idiot?
These people grew up together.
They've known each other.
Every cell knows the history of every single person there, and it's the same thing with
the cartels.
You just don't ... You're not a doctor in Mexico City, and all of a sudden say, I'm
going to start a cartel.
You live a criminal life.
People know who you are, and that's how you get ahead.
So we are allowed, and we do, recruit sources.
I recruited a source in a Latin American country who was a member of a Bows terrorist organization.
Right.
So we are allowed to do that.
We're supposed to do that, but there's a big difference between that and collaborating
with them in order to cut a deal.
Yes, the problems south of the border is tremendous.
We are not paying attention to it.
The Chinese own Panama, including the Panama Canal, the mines and everything else, but
you know the real solution-
They're also bringing a lot of the fentanyl into Mexico.
Absolutely, in tons, in tons.
But bringing it into Mexico brings up to the point that I was trying to make, secure your
borders.
Yeah.
When people get into the ... Look, I came to this country legally, but I came to this
country because the mentality of the U.S. is give me your masses, okay?
Personalize it.
Take it down to the micro level here.
You live in a decent neighborhood, and a couple of neighborhoods back, some modest family,
they get desperate, they break into your back room, they take over your bedroom and your
bad bathroom, and now you got to keep them in there.
Right.
You allow them to be in there.
What would you do?
If that neighbor came to me and I knew him-
No, I know what you mean.
Yeah.
I know what you mean.
Yeah.
If they came to my door and said, Mr. Prado, you know, we're in hard times, can you help
us out, then it's my choice to bring him into my fold.
But if you break into the back door of my house and take up one of the rooms, I'm not
going to be happy.
Yeah.
I know exactly what that feels like because the person, my next door neighbor just sold
their house to an out of state investor who made it an Airbnb.
So now we have people coming into our neighbor's house every other day, speeding down the street,
you know, crazy.
We have kids.
There's lots of kids in the neighborhood.
We're speeding up and down the street.
People partying in the house next to us from who knows where, where, you know, it was much
better before when it was just a family that we knew that was there and they were like
part of the neighborhood.
So I understand what that is.
You do have to kind of like bring things down to the micro level to really understand
what it is.
Yeah.
And I think, you know, the solution obviously it is to regulate the entry, you know, whether
it's by fences or whatever.
But the other part that nobody talks about is how do we expedite the process of legal
immigrants?
You know, for example, if you were, let's say you're in Peru or Costa Rica and you want
to come to the United States and you are a businessman, you have a bank account, your
kids are in college and you apply and it takes years, takes years and money.
If you cross the border, you just pay, you know, a coyote to bring you across the border
and now you're in the United States and that makes you legal.
I'm not saying that everybody that crosses that border is an illegal because they're
not.
The majority, I would say they're just people that are trying to do something for their
family in desperation.
I get it.
And the cartels benefit, though.
Of course they do.
Of course they do.
They benefit from the strength at the border because the harder it is to get across the
more money they can make.
Absolutely.
So, you know, they have all that in place.
So, yeah, it's a tough equation but for me is strengthen the borders, patrol the borders,
control the borders, but at the same time start a real robust program of how do you recruit
foreign nationals to come to this country at all levels, not just doctors, lawyers and
Indian chiefs because we do need immigrant workers and let them come and do the American
dream but it has to be a process and that needs to be expedited and I think that that
and controlling the borders would be a hell of an equation to entice people to do it illegally.
It's a polarizing topic because, you know, a lot of people are just like, you know, close
it off, don't let out any immigrants but, you know, they don't understand that this
country is made of immigrants and immigrants are the backbone of this country.
If you look at any construction site where there's anything being actually built, people
are usually using their hands, it's 90% immigrants.
Well, remember the only Native Americans are Native Americans.
Right.
Yeah, that's a great point.
So we got a little bit off topic.
Where were we before?
We went, okay, we went deep into Cuba.
We were talking about Cuba, Che Guevara.
You said that you would like to go back there one day but it probably will never happen
because you're a former CIA.
Only if there is a change of government.
If there was a legitimate change of government, we would be the first people on the plane.
Right.
But not little in.
So you're in, you're back in Miami.
You joined the pair of rescues and then you got out of the pair of rescue.
What did you start doing after that?
Yeah, I stayed in the reserves.
Okay.
And I started riding rescue with Miami Metro police and fire department.
So I was part of the rescue squad.
And this is during what time?
What year?
This was 74 through 80.
So during that time, which were really interesting times in Miami for a paramedic because the
drug wars were already starting and I saw as much actions as far as treating people as
you did in the combat zone because people were getting shot and killed and everything
else.
It was pretty rampant.
But what happened was around 1980, I approached the agency and I wrote to the agency.
I had done it once before on the headset.
We're not hiring.
It's like in 74 when I was looking for, because again, now I have all this training and I
have no war.
I have no way.
Yeah.
Okay.
I am a pair of rescue men, but I'm still not earning or paying my debt of honor in case
of emergency break glass.
I don't know.
I want to be the instrument that's already out of the glass.
So I applied for the agency again in 1980 and again, I told you earlier that I believe
that God's got a plan for us and as my luck would have it, they hired me on contract
because they needed a paramilitary medic to go on special operations or in special training
scenarios.
So I didn't leave the fire department.
I would go take two weeks leave and go work at the agency, working as a paramilitary guy
with our special activities division, which was special activities center now, but back
then it was special activities division, which is the paramilitary, the special forces for
like a better word of the CIA.
And when Reagan took over, two things happened right away.
The first one was as soon as he was sworn in, gee, they released our hostages in Iran
the next day because they knew what was coming.
The second thing was he declared war on communism in our hemisphere because he knew the problem
that at the time, Cuba was fomenting problems in everywhere from Angola to Salvador to Dicaragua
to Bolivia.
It was all over.
So he declares war and he wanted to first and foremost take down the Sandinista, the
communist Sandinista regime because again, the atrocities were there from day one.
I mean, the crimes were there from day one.
And so the agency did not have at the time a single native speaking, native Spanish looking
guy that had that kind of military background.
So they're all screaming, what was the name of that para rescue guy, remember the Cuban
kid from Miami.
And that's how I got hired in full time into the agency, 1990.
In 1980.
Oh, 1980.
1981, yeah.
Wow.
So that's when you got sent down to Central America.
And you were how old?
I was about 30.
Yeah.
About 30 years old.
Yeah.
So my prime.
Can you walk me through what that was like, that process of going down there, that was
your first official like deployment?
Yep.
And the best job I ever had in my life.
I got called by the agency on a Thursday and I was at headquarters on a Monday.
And talked to them, came out, called the fire department and resigned because what they
offered me was, they said, do you want to come on board?
I said, well, if it's contract, no.
If it's staff, yes.
So they say, no, we want to keep you.
I said, okay.
And you know, I thought I was going to go through some kind of training or something
like that.
No.
Nothing.
They gave me alias documentation.
They gave me some briefings on what was going on in the Hennecarawa, the dynamics, the geopolitics
of the area and everything else was Salvador, blah, blah, blah, two or three days of that
stuff and put my ass on a plane and send me down to Honduras.
And we had, that program ended up being a hundred plus guys, but the program was started
with just five.
And I was blessed with a guy named Colonel Ray.
Colonel Ray was a, he jumped into Corrigidor when he was 17.
He was a green beret and he was our man in Laos running a lot of the programs for the
agency.
So he was a legendary, legendary, really legendary operator.
He became my first mentor.
So my instructions were from headquarters was go do whatever Colonel Ray tells you to
do.
Got it moving.
Got down there and report and he goes, okay, what is it that you want me to do, so I want
you to become indispensable to them.
I need you to live with them.
I need you to beret with them.
I need you to train them.
For the first 14 months of those three years, I was the only CIA officer allowed to go to
the camps because that's why my book is called black ops.
Black ops are the, the, the operations that the U has hand has to be hidden.
So at that time, the program was not later on, obviously it became, you know, a very
open contra, you know, pretty much at the end of my tenure there in 84, early 84, the,
it was publicly known that the United States was supporting.
By accident, right?
Well, they eventually, there were some accidents, obviously later on with Hassan Fuss, but that
was much later on.
Okay.
But it was obvious.
I mean, Congress was leaking it, you know, all these things were going on, the Bowlin
amendment, all this competition back and forth, but that's what black ops are, you
know, those operations that have to hide the, the hand.
So my ammo was, I lived in the camps Monday through Friday and I would come to Tegucigapa,
to my, my brand new wife.
Is that where you met her?
No, no, I met her in Miami.
Can you imagine meeting another Cuban in Miami?
That's hard to do.
Rare, right?
So, but no, she, we got married, I had been in country about eight, in Honduras about
eight months when I came out, got married and then brought her in.
But for, for, for, for me, I would leave four o'clock in the morning, go to a camp, spend
two days there, train them up on everything from headspace and timing on a 50 cal to RPG
sevens, to medical stuff, to patrolling, to intel gathering and giving them the intelligence.
I was the only guy that, that was there.
And I would do that for two days, go to the next camp, travel day in the middle, two days
there and then come home for the weekend.
And I did that for pretty much all of three years.
So what were, who were the people in these camps?
Can you give some general context to what exactly was going on there?
I'd love to because that is another people that have been defamed.
You know, that was the best job I ever had in my life because the rewards of my sacrifice
of being living in, like I said, sleeping in a jungle hammock five days a week for three
years and never regretting it was the people that I was dealing with.
You know, they, they have a bad reputation about all being right-wing Samosa radicals.
I'm not saying that there weren't a handful of those and there were certain guys who actually
went rogue and that's in the book that I'm the one that, you know, rendered them back,
both of those guys, you know, brought them, brought them to justice.
But what I would do is I would train the trainers because primarily I was training the people
that already has some military and then they, I would help them train the next layer and
the next layer and the next layer.
But every night what I would do is I would grab a cup of coffee and I would go to a different
campfire and I would ask them, I said, why are you here?
Lo and behold, there wasn't a single one that said, well, you know, I read Marx and Lenin
and I don't agree with communism.
This was all personal.
None of them read anything.
No.
They didn't even know what the Soviet Union was.
Right.
Yeah.
They had heard of Castro because that was the friends of the Sandinistas.
But when I asked them, why are you here?
And it was real simple.
They looked into the eye and go, they raped my daughter.
They burned my church.
They beat up my priest.
They took my cattle.
They conscripted my 15-year-old into the military and he got killed.
So doesn't get any more purer than that, that you're willing to give up everything and go
live in an infested for, you know, jungles where leshminaeuses and malaria and everything
were prevalent just to try to get some freedom in the future for your family.
Their lives were all individually affected.
100%.
Or dismantled somehow.
100%.
So who were the contras?
Where did they come from?
There was a couple of factions.
There was actually three factions.
Like in all these revolutions, you know, in wars, there's always factions in there.
So in the north, under the FDN, was what the mosquito Indians called the Spaniards.
These were people that most of them were led by, you know, lieutenants that had been military
lieutenants.
They were not, you know, big shots in the military, but they were just like, you know, people
that knew enough about leadership and they recruited just from the masses, the peasants
in all these towns.
I think that was a very poor country.
So a lot of these people gravitated to the camps in the hope that they could fight and
get their stuff back.
So the majority of you had the north faction on the east side of the country.
And then on the west side of the country, you had the mosquito Indians, which are their
native Americans.
They're native to that area.
Mosquito Sumo and Rama are the three tribes.
And Steb and Faggoth was their leader.
I'm still in touch with him and still friends with him.
He's grateful that I saved his butt one time.
But again, the purity of these guys, these guys were hunters, gatherers, very religious,
very religious and very tight knit families who knew how to work in the jungle.
So they were formidable, formidable warriors.
Then the third faction was in the southern part of Nicaragua.
And those were the former Sandinistas, the people that fought as Sandinistas got the
solution by what the Sandinists, the regime was doing.
And they rebelled and they established their camps in the southern part of Nicaragua.
And when we first started there, they wouldn't even talk to each other.
By the time that we left there, there were one fighting force.
Wow.
And at one point that people never, everybody focuses on the Iran-Contra scandal and it's
politics.
But let's look at the facts.
That was the first black operation program after Vietnam that was successful.
We forced the Sandinistas to the negotiating table.
We forced them to have elections and they lost by vote, not by guns.
But without the pressures, they went to the table because they were losing.
They knew that we're going to be taken off power.
So they figured, hey, let's cut a deal, cut the heat off, it didn't work.
Obviously, it's reverted back to that with the Ortegas because all the money they stole.
But that was a project that revitalized the agency and revitalized covert operations.
Now what was the genesis of the Sandinistas and their ideology?
The Sandinistas, well, Nicaragua had a real alpha hotel for a leader.
His name was Somosa and he was just a brutal dictator.
And most importantly, he was a thief.
And one of the tipping points was, I think it was in 72, that they had a massive earthquake
and millions and millions and millions of dollars were pumped into Nicaragua.
He kept most of it.
There was a famous baseball player, Roberto Clemente, who was Puerto Rican, who started
bringing in food and he would become on the flights and his plane crashed.
He got killed at the prime of his life trying to help the people survive after the earthquake.
And the fact that Somosa so blatantly stole the Great, it never baited down.
The part that was destroyed were never rebuilt.
I've been to Nicaragua.
Everything is new on the one side, but the old side of town, everything is ruined.
So they had a legitimate gripe against a very, very brutal and corrupt leader or president,
whatever the hell you want to call it, dictator.
The Sandinistas, however, came in with a different facade than the Cubans did.
Cuba's revolution under Castro was a fig leaf hiding communism.
Well, the Sandinistas couldn't do that because they were being supported directly by the
Cubans.
The Cubans were there.
The Cubans were training them.
The Cubans were supplying them.
So people knew that they were a commonest regime from day one.
It wasn't a surprise like it was for the two most Cuban people.
So it was again, you know, it was an extension of the Soviet Union through Cuba and by the
facto also Salvador because things were being funneled.
There was a port, which I ended up blowing up in Puerto Cabezas that I like how you just
casually throw when I ended up blowing up.
We blew the place up.
So anyway, that's where all the military logistics from Cuba, from the Soviet Union via Cuba
came into Nicaragua.
So then they would export some of that to Salvador for the gorillas that were in Salvador.
So they were very active there.
They had leaders there.
They had their intel guys were training.
You know, the once the Sandinistas took over the Cubans military and the Cuban intel services
there were en masse.
So this is all part of the Cold War.
It's a proxy war between the United States and Soviet Union.
Exactly.
Okay.
So you're down there.
You're going to camps.
You're sleeping in a...
Jungle hammock.
A hammock five nights a week.
And your wife moves there with you.
And so you're training these guys, teaching them how to use RPGs, teaching them how to
gather intelligence.
What is your like, other than your day to day kind of training these guys?
At what point do you guys start sort of like going in and gaining territory and gaining
ground on the Sandinistas?
Very early.
Obviously, not me going across the border, although I did get caught across the border
in a couple of firefights, which is my happenstance.
There's no border there that's marked that says, you're now entering Honduras.
I mean, it's like jungle and rivers.
But we started infiltrating them, doing ambushes and raids.
They would venture in with enough supplies for maybe a week or two, hit a town, just
like that.
That's revolutionary, one-on-one.
That's what you do.
It's you fight the enemy with a hit and run kind of tactic.
That started moving and started getting momentum and denying the Sandinistas more and more
territory near the border, which allowed the camps to be a little safer.
And I'm talking about months down the road.
I mean, at the beginning, you had a Sandinista camp 200 yards on that side of the border
and you had a Contra camp 200 yards on the side of this one.
So there were several scrimmages there that would happen pretty spontaneously.
But we started pushing them down and they started gaining territory, not so much putting
up a flag and saying, we're declaring liberty here, no.
It was denying the Sandinistas power into that area, which played into the peasants
because that's what they wanted now.
They wanted to join something that was getting them.
They just got them this.
They got this little bit of peace for the family.
The Sandinistas cannot come readily into my village, rape, pillage and plunder because
there are going to be some consequences.
So that was the goal from at the beginning, which of course is what every insurgency does.
You try to undermine what's going on.
So that's when the special programs, again, black ops started kicking in.
The headquarters came in with a mandate saying, look, you guys are doing a great job with
harassing and ambushing these guys, but we need a left hook.
We need something that lets them know that this is not a ragged, not only them, but the
world to know that this isn't just a rag tag, a bunch of peasants uprising kind of thing.
So that's when I came up with a plan for blowing up Particle Basis.
The plan to do the damage to Particle Basis wasn't my idea, how we did it was.
So the headquarters came in and said, look, we got to come up with something that is going
to really knock them on their ass, something that's got to get their attention, that they're
going to go, oh, this is for real, the world to focus on this, not just the Sandinistas.
So I had met some mosquito divers.
When I was there, I was in military uniform, I was there as a Honduran major, and I had
my scuba badge on my hat, and one of the mosquitoes came up and said, are you a diver?
I go, yeah, I'm a military diver.
He says, I'm a diver.
I said, oh yeah?
What do you do?
He says, I'm a lobster diver.
So he introduced me to six or eight of his guys that were now Contras that had been lobster
divers.
So I came up with the idea, he says, I can militarily train these guys, and we go in
there and blow Particle Basis a pier out, and we did, very successfully.
So what was the purpose of this pier in Particle Basis?
The Particle Basis was the belly button for all Soviet aid coming through Cuba.
It's on the side of the Gulf, on the Caribbean side, so it was the main port.
There's another one, Bluefields, but that was a lot further south.
So Particle Basis was the number one belly button for them to receive the military supplies
and fuels and stuff coming in there.
So negating them that and making them vulnerable, it was very impactful, it was very politically
impactful.
What were the supplies they were receiving?
Everything from ammunition, weapons, fuel, food when needed, whatever they needed to
provide to keep the regime money and a lot of weapons, because again they were infiltrating
them further into Honduras and into Salvador.
What sort of numbers are you talking when we're talking about all the Contras together,
all the three camps of the Contras, and all the Sandinistas?
Well I can't tell you about the Sandinistas, because obviously that's the standing army,
so whatever, you know, 100,000, I don't remember what would be, I couldn't do that justice,
but the Contras were in the thousands, in the thousands, not necessarily tenths of thousands,
but it were in the thousands.
I know we had, at one time we put in 3,000 men and women across the broader at one time,
started just moving in.
One of the big offenses that we made from the north.
So there were several thousand between the Miskito, the Spaniards as they call them,
and then the former Sandinista, which were again, they definitely contributed to the
fight.
So when you went to go blow up the pier at Puerto Cabeza, can you walk me through with
that?
Was it like, did you guys go in the middle of the night with scuba gear and just strap
C4 to Pylings?
Close enough.
Yeah.
I spent three weeks on a deserted island in the middle of outside of Puerto Olympia called
the Vivo de Joquiz, and I started training these guys, compass, swims, how to do buddy
breathing.
All this, I mean, they knew how to put out a set of tanks and go grab lobster.
There's a big difference.
Were they mainly free divers?
No, they actually used the scuba tanks, they would have bags and they would go down with
scuba tanks and because a lot more efficient and they have real rough gear, but none of
the guys say so.
They were divers.
They were legitimately divers, but they were not military divers.
They were not mani-pig.
Exactly.
You know, far from and not from our mutual friend, mani-pig.
But you know, things like compass swims, you know, you can't just swim on the surface
to an area.
And so, you know, be able to get a reading and keep it and get to your point, counting
the distance and all the logistics.
And then, while we tasked our headquarters, our headquarters has a component called OTS,
Office of Technical Services.
They're the guys that blow up everything, bug everything.
They're ops officers, mostly from the special military community, but who are very technical
and scientific and bomb experts and all this kind of stuff.
So they came up with a bomb that was 80 pounds of C4 in a tubular shaped device that I had
swam back and forth for two days, getting the buoyancy on the right.
The text were there.
We've got to float this because you have to be able to drag it behind you without it
impeding your accuracy of getting into the target.
So the way that this works is you, we went into the, well, we left Honduras in a Honduran
PT boat.
We had put the native boat on top of the PT boat and I had my four divers, well, my boat
captain and my three divers, and we had their weapons and the explosives.
The bomb was there and everything else.
We left and got into Nicaragua waters at night.
So we were in probably 10 o'clock at night or so.
We were already, we could see Puerto Cabezas.
So we timed it so we would be there under darkness.
Then we put the panga on the water.
The panga was the native boat with the guys in it and now we took them a little further
in until there were a couple of miles from the target and that's when they were, that's
where they deployed.
And what they had to do, what we had to do here is you have the two pylons on the one
side that we were going to attack and you tie this device from one end to the other
and you put it two thirds of the distance of the depth.
So two thirds from the bottom of the actual depth and what it does is it lifts the waters
not compressible.
So when the explosion happens, it's like a tsunami going this way and that's what tore
up all the pipes and everything else in the pier.
So the water is like shrapnel.
Exactly.
It's just like a solid mass being exploded.
It becomes shrapnel.
It was a very good way of putting it.
And I will tell you, I had never seen satellite overviews until I got back from the mission
and Colonel Ray says, check out your work.
And seeing that pier with a big ass hole in the middle, that was cool shit.
Holy cow.
I can't fucking.
And in the pitch black, pitch darkness, you guys are down there doing this.
The guys were, what we gave them was they had some IR lights and we at the boat, we
had night vision, very rudimentary, but we could pick up IR so we could, it was a red
blob that this, to the naked eye, you could never see it.
But with these special glasses, you could see the fact that they were there.
So that's when the boat picked them up and we came back in into Nicaragua.
So I mean, into Honduras.
Wow, man.
Those kinds of, those kinds of missions are, those are like, that's like a movie right
there.
Like listening to that part of your book, I felt like I was watching a Tom Clancy movie.
Like it was insane.
Underwater divers in the middle of the night, strapping sea forward to the bottom of a pier.
And so you guys, that was unscathed, you guys got back unscathed.
Unscathed.
No one even saw you guys.
No one even.
No, we lost the boat captain in a future mission.
He boat capsized and he drowned, but that mission overall was 100% successful.
So you mentioned earlier that there were two guys who went rogue that were managing some
of the contra, a couple of the contra camps or a couple of the.
One of the contra camps.
One of, they were managing one of the contra camps, but there was a guy who was their predecessor.
His name was Suicidas.
Yeah.
Who is, who is.
Means suicide.
And you know.
They called him suicide.
Commander Suicide.
Yeah.
Cause he was, he was a bad ass.
He was a very good friend of mine.
We were very, very close.
He had some problems, which I cannot go into.
But so he had to leave the camp for, for, for a while.
And there were two sub commanders.
One one's name was Creel and the other one was Cara de Malo.
And they both started going rogue.
They were going into, you know, Honduras is a very humble military.
It's gotten much better, but back then, you know, any of these villages, you had three
local police guys or something with a, you know, bolt action rifle.
And here are these countries.
They got everything from fouls to AK-47s and M60s and, you know.
And so they started cattle wrestling.
They started going into town and demanding stuff and they were drinking and whoring and
you know, beating people up and it was, it was, it was bad word got to us and immediately
the, the Hondurans came to us and goes, you guys got to fix this.
So, okay.
So they sent me.
So it's, it's, it's, it's a pretty long story, but we'll keep it real short.
Primarily I went back there and I, and I kidnapped their asses back on one at a time.
The first one, I fooled into getting there, told them that I was bringing a Honduran captain,
which I did.
They wanted to talk to him about the future of what was going on, blah, blah, blah.
So the helicopter could only land like a mile from the actual camp.
So he came out with two of his bodyguards.
Okay.
And this was Krill?
This was Krill.
This was Krill.
And so what happened was I said, I told them, my stomach is really bad.
Can you go into the little, there was a little tiny village and give me some pepsis or something
so I can hydrate here.
Here's, you know, I gave like $10 worth, which was a mint for them.
So he runs off to get this stuff and as soon as the guy leaves, I grabbed this guy and
I threw him on the plane on the helicopter.
This armed him and threw him in the air and on the helicopter.
How do you do that?
You just grabbed him?
Yeah.
Was he armed?
Was, is the operative word.
Yeah, I disarmed him and threw him in the helicopter.
There was a Nicaraguan Contra officer, I think he had been a lieutenant in the Samosa that
was there with me and another, more of a strap hanger, a junior guy and of course the Honduran
captain.
So the Honduran captain takes off with Krill to go back to take him back.
And you stayed?
I stayed.
I wanted to find the other guy.
So I had befriended this young guy, he was, and moral of the story here is never underestimate
the lower people in your, in your, in any organization.
This young guy came to me months before his wife was very sick and he didn't have money
for the medicines that she needed.
I reached it by pocket, gave him $20 worth of limpiras and he never forgot that.
Well, I go into the camp after getting rid of Krill and people are asking me, where is
Krill?
Oh no, he, he went back with Captain Luca.
He, he agreed to go back there and, you know, and get debriefed, you know.
So I'm walking into the camp, we're going to the area, usually they would put us in
the center of the camp for protection.
They didn't want, you know, guys like me, you know, to get captured by the Sandinistas.
So I'm walking to where I'm thinking we're going to be staying and I hear from the behind
the bushes, I hear this major, major.
And it was this young guy.
He says, they're planning to kill you tonight.
And I said, okay, they didn't take us to the center.
They took us to the outskirts, the back outskirts of the camp.
There was a hutch there and that's where they put us.
So who were you with?
I was with two Nicos, two Nicaraguan Contras, two other Nicaraguan Contras that had come
from their headquarters.
And I told the guys, look, I just got told this.
So what we did is as soon as it got dark, we crawled out of the back windows with our
weapons and we carried grenades, we carried all kinds of crap.
And we went up on the hill and set up a perimeter because we weren't about to walk back to,
you know, anywhere.
If they come after us, we're going to just have to fight.
And sure as hell, around midnight, all these guys are in there with flashlights coming into
the house and, you know, wondering where the hell we were at.
How far away were you from that house?
Well, a few, I would say maybe 300 feet.
300 feet?
I'm sorry, yards, 300 yards.
300 yards.
And it was a hill, Rocky Hills.
We had set up a perimeter, you know, and all that other stuff.
They would have paid a heavy price coming after us.
And they knew that because I had trained them.
They knew what we were capable of doing.
So that's amazing.
That's incredible that they thought that they could pull something on you.
They were rogue.
I mean, they were desperately rogue because they had committed certain crimes that they
definitely, and I'll get into that in a second.
So what happened was the next day, I walked down before sunrise, went back there, we went
back in the hooch and we went to eat breakfast.
And there's people that are going like, how are they still here?
And others were going like, oh, they're still here because the majority of them were pro
us.
Right.
So I asked them, I said, where is Caramallo?
And one of the guys coughed up that he was in town in the little village that he had
stayed up there overnight.
Well, lo and behold, there was a whorehouse there that he would frequent, get drunk and
take two girls into the room and somebody else would pay for it kind of stuff because
he forced them to.
And so I showed up, again, this guy and I came in a helicopter with the same captain,
Honduran captain, and my two Nicas, and we landed in the village, in the center park
of the village, and they had four military guys there, I mean, the highest ranking was
probably a corporal, right?
And they had bolt action rifles and they're skidged shitless of the contrast because they
are armed to the teeth and trained.
So we come in, this is where the captain, Honduran captain came in, even though I was
there as a Honduran major, I'm not really a Honduran, you know, so he did the talking
and he says, where is this guy?
And they said, he's over there, says, well, you go get him, tell him Major Alex is here
and wants to talk to him, needs to talk to him now.
These guys are going like, oh, shit.
So they went over there and they told him.
He was drunk, gets in his Jeep, that he had taken from one of the local ranchers, he usurped
his Jeep, and he had his driver who was his bodyguard, he comes up to helicopters here,
they hit the part of the park here and he comes to the street, and he starts walking
over to me, I have my AR-15 slung on my shoulder, and my browning on the side, and he walks
up, kind of, you know, semi-staggering kind of thing, and so what's going on?
I said, look, you know, I need to take you back, you know, the start of my aura, the
chief of staff said, I'll need to talk to you about, you know, what's going on and
future plans, and he says, well, I ain't going back.
I said, look at him, I'm not requesting this, as a courtesy, because I've known you now
for two years or whatever it was, I guarantee your safety, but you need to come back with
me, and he goes, I ain't going back, and he looks over behind his Jeep, and he nods
and the guy takes out an Uzi out of the Jeep, and does this, and I take the AR-15 and I
put it about from here to you, right at its crotch, and I said, you know you're going
to lose this one, right?
You better turn your guy down, because if he fires one shot this way, you're dead.
So he did one of these, he said, put it away, put it away, and same thing, took this weapon
away, threw him in the air helicopter, and we went, and this time I left also.
We all came back to town.
So this is what you would call a quote rendition?
Yeah, it would be a form of a rendition, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, definitely, it was definitely enemy territory getting somebody that didn't want
to go out, would it be taken out, yeah.
That's wild.
Those guys went under a military trial, and they were punished accordingly.
And so did Suicidas ever come back?
No, he died shortly thereafter.
Oh no.
Yeah, yeah.
I wanted to also get into a little bit of the Argentinian angle to this whole thing.
How are the Argentinians involved in this whole operation?
They were the catalyst at the beginning.
There was a very right-wing, very brutal, repressive regime in Argentina at the time.
These guys that they knew some of the former Samoza guys that were in the Contras and all
this other stuff.
So they started trying to prove it Friday, but we're talking a drop in the bucket.
So they came up and they had about 10 or 12 of them.
One was the general that came in and out, the other was the colonel that stayed there
most of the time, and then the rest were just thugs.
I mean, these were guys who were part of their death squads.
If you were suspected of being a communist in Argentina, they would just knock your door
down, shoot you in front of your family, and take you away.
That's how tough these guys were.
They were kind of like the Che Guevara mentality of love terrorism.
So they were a thorn in her side, but they were the ones that brokered the first introduction
and everything else.
In the program started, they were part of it.
Not once in the year or so that they were there that any one of these Argentines ever
stayed at a camp.
Twice I had one that showed up at the camp and left with a helicopter after I was dropped
off.
So they never contributed to this.
They were just milking the crap out of it.
A lot of US dollars coming in.
They were getting funded by the US?
Yeah.
Well, the Contras were being funded by the US, but they were part of the system that
they needed their support.
And these guys were supposed to be there to train their guys.
So now we're training them in military stuff so they can go out to the camps and help me
train the others.
They never did.
They just didn't.
They just took the money.
No, they just took the money and ran.
As a matter of fact, that general got busted, I think it was in Miami airport.
He had two AK-47s and $300,000 in a suitcase.
It's a lot of money.
And he would make monthly trips.
So you do the math.
They were very corrupt.
And it was good riddance.
Everybody was very relieved, including the Nicos, because they felt obliged to them,
because they had the first ones to help them.
Because remember, before Reagan, this was not a popular idea.
So all they had was the Argentines.
So yeah, they were corrupt.
They were very brutal.
I had a couple of encounters with them with the general one time.
They despised the Miskito Indians, because they're racist.
I mean, these guys are very Nazi mentality kind of stuff.
Well, the Nazis went there after World War II.
Yeah, exactly.
That's part of their blood there.
So they looked down on the Miskito Contras, and they were my favorite anyway.
So I'm sitting across the table from him.
Here you have a major talking to a general.
And actually, I was a captain at the time.
I hadn't gotten promoted to a major yet.
And he's making decisions about the logistics.
Well, we're not going to give them that right now.
We're going to put this over here.
And I said, no, we're not, sir.
They're getting their fair share of the stuff.
He says, I said, you're only a captain or something.
I said, yeah, but I'm the American captain.
These are my resources.
These are my boss's resources.
So if you want to do it that way, we'll pull out.
And you're on your own.
He had a pencil in his hand, and he broke it.
That's how angry he was.
But I got my way.
So my Miskitos got supplied.
I was persona non grata from the Argentines, too.
They would have, yeah.
Wow, so that put a pin in that.
Pretty much.
It started their downfall, because now the station got
really involved in the need, recognizing the need.
We need to weed these guys out of here.
So after all of this transpire with the plan
and assassination on you, what else
were you able to accomplish during your time down there
before you left?
Like, what happened?
Like, can you explain the time period between that
and when, what was the guy's name who was playing crashed?
There was a Marine Hussapus.
Hussapus, Hussapus, yeah.
And that was in the, I left in 84,
the country's in the north.
He went down 87, I think it was.
I was in Costa Rica running the southern front of that time.
Oh, okay, so you had left?
I had left for several years, and then I went back,
because I went through spy school and everything else.
Then I got sent to Costa Rica to help
the southern front contras.
So why did you leave the area in the first place?
Well, I mean, I've been there three years.
Okay. Come on, you know.
As much as I enjoyed it, I had brand new baby
and everything else, so we limit our tours.
We have to.
Our guys get burned out.
As a matter of fact, three years is the exception.
Usually it's two-year tours.
If it's a danger zone, it's usually just a year.
Oh, wow.
And I've been there for three living in the camps.
So this is when you went to official spy school
and became an actual spy?
Finished my college.
I had a little bit to go, and they sponsored me for that,
and then I went through spy school.
But what happened, the other big thing that happened
while I was still in Nicaragua,
I mean, when I was still in the northern part of Nicaragua,
was the idea of the success we had had at Puerto Cabezas.
They wanted to emulate that in the port
on the other side of the country.
Corinto.
On the Pacific side.
On the Pacific side.
And Corinto was the commercial belly button.
This is where all the import and export of food stuff,
that's where they send the nieces wood, crops or cattle,
whatever they were sending, this was the port
that handled all that.
So they came to me and said,
do you think your divers can do it?
Hell yeah, of course they can do it.
Who came to you and asked you this?
Me and my boss.
Me and my head of the agency there, Colonel Ray,
he says, do you think your guys,
headquarters is asking,
do you think you guys can hit Corinto?
I said, yeah, I know we can hit Corinto,
but you just gotta do it right.
And he said, okay, well, start planning it.
I started, when I briefed my plan,
they came in, the senior FDN guys,
the Contras there and the other station officers,
were saying, well, you know, we need this one
to be a joint operations with the Spaniards,
as they called them.
So we wanna use your divers,
but we're gonna have the boat captains
are gonna be regular Nicaraguan white guys.
They don't trust each other, they don't get along.
So I wasn't being asked, I was being told,
but I had a good relationship with Colonel Ray
and I went afterwards, I said, hey boss,
this ain't gonna work.
These guys hate each other.
They're only fighting in the same fight
because they hate the same Denise's more,
but mosquitoes want autonomy.
That's what they're really fighting for.
They're not fighting for the Spaniards.
I was overruled because again, the politics,
go back to politics, you had to have the optic
that this was now, because if not,
it would be mosquito, mosquito, mosquito,
if we would have done this choice with the mosquito Indians.
They wanted to boost the morale and it turned into a goat rope.
Because what happened was, we came up with the plans,
I trained these guys for weeks and weeks and weeks
and again, now we were using platter charges to take down.
Corinto is a port and it has a bridge
that hooks it up to the mainland.
And the bridge had these pylons
and the idea was to blow four of the pylons on one side
so it would tilt and that's not an easy repair, right?
Right.
So the guys had their platter charges
and we showed them how to stash them
and how to put them and how to arm them
and all that kind of stuff.
But when they went in the, and we got them these fast boats,
these boats were fast as hell,
but they were not very robust.
Like cigarette boats?
They were kind of, they were open fishermen,
but they had huge engines on,
they could do 60 miles an hour,
which they would all ask.
And so we had given them two of these
and the boat captains have been trained
on using these boats.
And they went in to Corinto at night as expected.
There was a lot more vigilance there than we had expected.
There was a lot of patrols going on.
So that kind of also set their mood of kind of panic.
They made it to the bow of the part of the ocean
that goes into under the bridge
and that's where the mosquitoes
were supposed to get in the water.
And the mosquitoes said, we're not getting in the water
because I know you guys are gonna leave us.
And the guys said, no, we're not gonna leave us.
So they get into an argument.
You got eight guys who are armed to the teeth,
and they're getting in an argument.
So they decided to scrap the operation,
which I'm not saying that it was wrong.
It was a good decision probably
because I believe that they would probably have left them.
If there would have been any conflict,
all of a sudden surface,
they weren't gonna wait for these guys.
They were gonna leave them hanging back there.
So they started to exfil back into,
well, both broke down.
The first one was broke down almost immediately,
got all plugged up
and they had to go into the mangrove
and spend the night there
because they were hiding, they were in a movie.
The other boat who had gone ahead
broke down in the Gulf of Fonseca,
still in Nicaraguan waters,
like a bobbing cork up there,
and no means of getting anywhere.
So that's where my para rescue training came in.
I went to my boss at the time,
while the guy was ahead of the program, Leon, great guy.
I went to Leon, I said,
I ain't leaving my guys behind.
He says, I figured, what do you wanna do?
I said, well, here's what I'm gonna do
and this is what we did.
The first boat, like I said, was bobbing in the ocean
right there in the Gulf of Fonseca.
So I rigged what we call a stable.
Stable is where you have harnesses
that come from the side of a helicopter
with seats at the other end
so it can come to the water, people get on it,
and you can bring them out.
So I set it up for five,
because it was four on the boat,
but I had to get in the boat to teach them what to do.
So helicopter comes in,
it's called, we used to call it low and slows,
because you're supposed to be going,
I think it was 15 knots and be 15 yards
or something from the water, you know?
And bass fence snorkel, two sticks of C4,
because if the boat didn't start, I was gonna blow it up.
I was gonna leave that to the Sandinista,
because it was armored and it had incredible capabilities.
And deniability, anyway you put it,
it was something that could,
even though we don't buy things on the open,
but it could come out.
So my plan was, if we could restart it,
I had spark plugs, tools, fuel, water,
and I said, if we can start the boat and recover it,
we're gonna blow it up, put everybody on a stable rig,
helicopter would go up, I'd pop it, swim out,
get in the helicopter, and get the hell out of there.
We were able to start it, which was magical.
How do you jump out of a helicopter
with fuel, tools, spark plugs, C4, and all this stuff?
Very carefully.
No, what we had was flotation bundles on both,
on the fuel, on the water, and then on the equipment,
and I pushed those out and then I went out,
but the C4 was on me, that I had,
the actual charge was with me,
I had the caps and everything else to set it off.
I said, you swam with all this shit?
Yeah, and I had my Walther PPK on my ankle,
because that was all I could carry at the time.
But anyway, so we got them out of there,
but we still have the other boat that's stuck in the woods,
in the mangroves.
So we go back, we fix the boat,
the boats were very prone to clogging up,
they'd foul up and they would break down.
So they refurbished the boat,
the guys that don't know what they were doing,
we had one former Cuban Bay of Pigs veteran,
it was a contractor for the agency,
and there was an agency officer there,
it was a maritime officer,
and they were the boat captains that took us,
now I went with them to get the second boat.
Well, we had been there the night before,
first of all, now I'm going on 30 hours of no sleep, okay?
So we're going out in the night and the seas were brutal,
it was 10 to 12 feet,
we'd beaten the crap out of the boat,
but we were determined to vector,
but what happened was,
you don't think the Sandinistas noticed
that helicopter in their waters,
and all the traffic and all the communications,
the Cubans bonded to that for them,
that's the kind of intel that they provide.
So they knew something was going on,
and as soon as we started getting close to the landfall,
we, the Sandinista boats started popping flares,
these flares that go up and trying to light up the sky
to see if they could detect us,
because they figured there was something going on,
plus we had an aircraft that was a communications link
with the station, us,
and trying to get a hold of the guys in the boat.
And when that did new work,
they started doing what's called recon by fire,
they will shoot at a certain area
and wait to see if somebody shoots back.
Well, I had an AR-15 and a Brownie,
I wasn't about to shoot back anybody, right?
So we bobbed out there, our radios went bad,
but we were able to geolocate exactly
where the second boat was.
We were forced to go back
because the seas were killing us,
and we were, again, no communications,
we couldn't even triangulate that.
So we went back to base,
and then the next morning, I did get some sleep,
the next morning we went out there in these small boats
that we had given the Hondurans
and trained them on,
and they were like little super fast little boats
with M-50s on them, 50 cows on them.
And six of them in formation, we went in,
got the boat, pulled it out, and brought it back too.
So it was a failed mission,
but I am very proud of that rescue,
and I don't think that if I had been a grunt
rather than a PJ, I would have been able to pull that one off.
Were they ever able to compromise that bridge after you left?
Unfortunately, they, again, politics kicks in.
They made the political decision
that they were gonna mine the port,
and that became a real, that's an act of war.
That's an open act of war.
So they mined the correcto port.
They meaning somebody in the US government wasn't us.
That's not our purview.
So it was probably some of the special military guys
who were sent out there to do that.
So this wouldn't, when you say mine,
what do you mean?
I know what a mine is.
So ships couldn't come in?
So they just, like above water explosives?
Just under the surface, usually.
So you can't dodge them.
They usually put them just below the surface.
So they actually mined the harbor,
and that became a huge political football.
By that time I was leaving.
So, and getting into finishing my college
and getting into spy school.
So I was totally disconnected from the rest of the world.
But for me, that was a very important mission
because first of all, I brought my guys back.
I'm very proud of that.
Those guys would have not survived it.
Second, it was the first time I did a real para rescue,
rescue even though I was now CIA.
And so my roots were validated.
It was my validation of, yeah, I am a PJ, you know?
If I had all the training, I had the pretty beret
that just gets the chicks from the BX,
but I finally done something under that,
on the auspices of para rescue that worked.
And the rest is history.
I mean, the guys got out and the ports were mine
and became a huge political football
for quite a few months.
And this is after you went back to the States
and started getting into spy school and learning.
Yeah, yeah.
When you were going through spy school,
what did you, did you have anything in mind
that you wanted to do next?
Or did you want to just kind of get
into the same kind of stuff, like hands-on, nitty gritty?
Well, I was, you know, the agency's broken up,
was broken up before into geographical areas.
Geographical divisions, East Asia Division.
Right.
Southeast Asia Division, Latin America Division,
European, blah, blah, blah.
And then there's a couple of other divisions,
one of them, Special Activities Division,
which is the paramilitary side of the agency.
As I mentioned earlier, the special forces of the CIA,
all recruited from the four branches of the services,
their special side.
So I was home-based with them.
That was where I belonged.
But at the time, before that,
a lot of the paramilitary guys were strictly that,
just paramilitary guys.
The decision, very smart decision was made,
that we have to have fully rounded operations officers
that are case officers.
So that's where the PMO, Paramilitary Operations Officer,
came over.
So you were, they call it dual-hatted.
You know, you were a bona fide case officer,
you could recruit, you went through the farm,
just like everybody else, except the paramilitary side,
because you didn't need it.
But you went through the class for the whole three,
four months when we were at the farm, learning how to spy.
And so I was still home-based in Special Activities Division.
But the program was start to send our guys
to do conventional case officer operations overseas.
So I was a blend of that.
And I guess the blend, what it made it was,
I was a case officer in real shitty areas
with a lot of people doing what I got.
Right.
I love how you described, which I didn't even,
I just, for some reason, I just learned from you in your book
what an agent actually means.
I never knew like the actual definition of an agent,
but an agent is, I'll let you explain what an agent is.
A case officer is somebody who is actually an employee
of the CIA.
That's right.
And an agent is somebody who-
You recruit.
You recruit.
If you wanna tell a fake CIA guy, if he says,
oh yeah, I was a CIA agent, no, we don't call ourselves agents.
So we have security guys that are agents,
but we don't call ourselves agents.
We're operations officers or case officers.
Agents are the people that you recruit
to help you in, to carry X mission, whatever it is.
It could be a terrorist, it could be a political figure,
it could be somebody with access to narcotics operations,
it could be espionage, it could be bugging,
a Cold War embassy somewhere, whatever it took.
So I was that breed.
And I think that's one of the differences between me
and my friend Jim Lawler,
is that Jim was a main straight case officer,
did some incredible stuff for the agency,
but I was both a paramilitary officer and a case officer.
Okay.
Now, what is the difference between an agent and a cell?
Is there a different, a definition for a cell?
You know, a cell is if you build a network of agents
in a particular area, it becomes a cell.
So let's say that I recruit you to carry out X task.
And then after you start doing, you come back and go,
hey, I need more people.
I said, well, who would you recommend?
And you would, yeah.
And then we start building, we train them to,
we polygraph them, whatever it was, we've had them.
And then your cell starts being created.
So you may be the principal agent,
which is what they call them, the principal agent.
The other are sub agents, because most of the time,
we run those through the main guy.
We don't deal with them particularly.
Sometimes we peel them off and we do.
If they're really good or we wanna do something different.
But yeah, that's the difference
between a cell and an agent.
I'm sure there are obviously a lot of things you learned,
right, like a lot of tactics you learned.
But what was your biggest takeaway from the spy training?
And what did it teach you about human beings?
Well, it's the contrast of the world that I was coming from,
which is a very kinetic paramilitary work
to the real world of the agency.
We are the, on our special activities division side,
our paramilitary side, we are the,
in case of emergency, break glass kind of folks, right?
The rest are individuals that you gotta learn,
how to recruit, how to develop the whole recruitment cycle.
How to spot somebody and say,
gee, I met this guy at this party, very squared away.
Let me check him out.
Ooh, his cousin is so-and-so.
Then I may do a bump, meet you somewhere.
Hey, weren't you at the, oh yeah, how you doing?
Hey, let me buy you a coffee.
And you develop a relationship.
And then one of the things that they teach us
is how do you recruit for strengths?
And I'll give you an example.
The communist block countries recruit for weaknesses.
That's their main goal.
In other words, if you're a drug addict
or if you're having affairs
or if you've got money problems or drinking problems
or gambling problems, they love that, they love that.
Now I'm not saying that we don't use it,
but we try to recruit for strengths.
And the vantage that the United States has as a country,
and definitely as a CIA as a service,
is that for anybody that is in a country
that he feels that he needs to make a difference,
he needs to make a change,
he needs to emulate freedom,
he needs to move in that direction.
We the agency, we the Americans,
are the white guys with a white hat for them.
So we recruit for strengths
because we have the same ideology.
So let's say you and I were talking,
you're the guy I'm developing,
and I start asking you questions.
So man, I was reading this in the paper.
What's your take on this?
Oh, there's that and the other, I'm going like,
okay, there's a button, oh, there's a button.
Oh, this is compatible.
And little by little,
you talk to that individual and you work with him.
Of course, this is a reader's digest version of it,
but let's say a couple of months down the road,
now I start telling him,
he's like, well, why aren't you doing something about it?
I mean, you're very educated,
I see how hard you're following all this stuff,
but what do you think is going to make a difference here?
And then listen to what he says,
and you go, and then eventually you turned out around,
and go, okay, remember when we had that conversation
that said that you said that you wanted to,
and I just had an opportunity come to my way
that I want to turn you on to,
and that's how you start the recruiting process.
That's again, that's the reader's digest version of it,
but now, because then there's agent handling,
there's a vetting, this is very big.
A lot of people don't understand the difference
between a confidential informant and an agent.
Confidential informing is somebody that you bust
and you grab them by the nuts and you go,
you're going to cooperate, right?
And they do, because they don't want to do 30 years in jail
or want to get another clipping in the jail.
Our agents, and this is something I am so proud of,
of the agency, and it's one of the many wrongs
that I wanted to write is nobody in the federal government
takes better care of their sources than we do.
Nobody, nobody.
We have had guys who've disappeared,
and we take care of their families,
and then they come out and we take care of them.
It is, that's sacrosancturus.
I mean, that is, we can't lose that.
That is the very nexus of all what we're trying to do
is through these individuals,
you become a force multiplier.
So-
And after they're no longer of value?
Especially if they're no longer of value
because you don't want them to sour on you.
We, you know, in the movies,
they have what they call the,
she's,
terminations, you know, hostile terminations
because I think you're stealing from me
and you son of a bitch,
and I'm like, we don't do that.
I would rather go on to you and go, hey, listen, man,
you know, I'm sorry, you know,
the money that we have for this program,
it was shut down by the government.
I have your number, let's cut it loose for six months or so.
Here's your bonus.
Love you big time, thanks for everything you did.
And then when he walks out, he says,
okay, I got rid of the son of a bitch.
And you never call him back
because what you don't want is that guy,
all of a sudden, going to the papers
or going to the narcos or going through the terrorists
and say, I was pitched by that guy and that guy's CNA.
So we take care of the good ones
and the ones that weed out very, very, very seldom
do we really interrogate somebody
when they've done something wrong.
And it's primarily if we feel that they've compromised
stuff that we can't afford to lose.
So I think to the judge.
So once you finished spy school, where did they send you?
I was supposed to go to Salvador.
And I was excited about it because, you know,
again, this was more of the paramilitary kind of program.
But then the chief of station in Costa Rica,
very, very dear friend became and became one of my mentors
and Joe Fernandez, legendary dude.
And Joe asked for me by name.
He had met me in the Contra North.
And he says, I need Prado down here
to run the Southern Front on the Contras.
Now, the contrast is in Honduras, I was in uniform,
carrying two guns, three guns, knife, grenades,
whatever it was.
Now I'm working out of an embassy coat and tie.
Why?
Because in Honduras, I was there as a Honduran major
and the senior military guys knew who I was
and what I was that I was part of the CIA.
In Costa Rica, oh, and these people were trying
to help the Contras.
In Costa Rica, it was the other way around.
They were hunting down the Contras
because they were afraid that the Sandinistas
would get pissed at them
and start fomenting trouble in Costa Rica.
So their deal with the Sandinistas was,
I can't remember where Albert was, I think it was guy's name,
was that they were persona non grata, the Contras.
So everything that we had to do,
beating them, ex-filling them out of the country,
which I love doing this shit, in black kind of stuff,
and training them where you could.
It was all done in coat and tie
and it was all done under the auspices
of I'm a third secretary of the U.S. Embassy.
I rented some, bought some vans,
some air condition and put desks on there
and we had rolling meetings because unless you know,
trade craft, if you know how to protect yourself,
these guys don't, they would just go,
we're having a meeting in such and such a place
and everybody would know where it was
and everybody's going there
and that's where they get wrapped up.
So it's one of the things that I changed was that,
we would meet in vans.
I would have them get picked up by a car
with a driver that knew how to do
a surveillance detection route to the point
where I was gonna pick them up, put them in my van
after doing a surveillance detection route
and then we'd drive around town and have a meeting.
So it was still supporting the Contras
and it was still a paramilitary.
I mean, I was in charge of the air drops,
I was in charge of their training,
I was in charge of their X-Fills,
but I was doing it in a lot more polished way
than my own local driver days.
What is an X-Fill?
X-Fill is when you take somebody out of the country black,
okay, again, the word black keeps coming up
with black ops and everything else
because that's what we do is the operations
that need to be hidden.
So I'll give you an example.
We had a couple of dozen Contras in country
that were leaders, these guys were top guys
that not a leader so much, but they were warriors.
These are the guys that we needed them get further training.
They were fighting well and everything else,
but you can't just take them to the airport in San Jose
and put a US visa on their passport and said,
no, they can't even know that they're going
to the United States.
They may not be going to the United States for training,
but wherever they're going,
they will not know where they're going.
So it's a way of X-Filling whether maritime or air,
very southern through land because obviously
in this particular case, you X-Fill them out black
and you take them to a black training site.
And black training site is a site that is unacknowledged.
It's classified top secret and the guys and gals
that get there for training do not know where they're at.
They could be in the United States,
they could be in another Latin American country.
Everything is, the compound is sterilized.
Cars don't have license plates
and everybody there is an alias
and they train these guys up
and it's a very friendly environment.
I mean, it's very pro them,
but they're kept completely in the dark,
but again, to protect the US hand.
How long did it take you to recruit your first agent?
It was actually pretty easy, the first ones,
because there were some in Costa Rica
but it was really interesting,
Costa Rica is a fascinating country.
And there were some very conservative individuals
that were very worried about the Sandinistas
and they were worried about the fact
that their government wasn't doing anything about it,
that they were actually catawing to the Sandinistas
for fear of them attacking them or subverting them.
So these people were taking this very personal.
Most of them were cowboys,
they were former military guys,
and so there was a lot of strengths to recruit from.
And the first guy was somebody
that I met through an introduction
and I think that took two weeks
because I mean, the guy saw me from the beginning,
he was okay, I don't know who this guy is.
He was a smart dude and he just wanted to do something
and he was tremendously successful at helping us.
But then at the same time, later on,
there was a minister of, I can't say any further than that,
but he's a guy that I bumped into in a social event
and I ended up recruiting him.
So there, I had some good recruitments there,
some with the Contras, some with the Costa Ricans,
some with the other, but it's a lot of fun.
And how long did it take for the situation
with Eugene Hasifus, whose C-123 got shot down,
I think it was by like a surface to air RPG?
Yeah, he, the fact that this guy was a Marine
is an embarrassment because I mean,
it's just, he embodied all the contrary qualities
of a Marine and I'm a big Marine, fan of Marines.
Hasifus was a former Marine, he was a drinker,
he was a very lone wolf kind of guy.
And what happened was, he was flying as a kicker,
the guy who kicks the bundles out of the airplane
for resupplying the Contras
in different parts of the country.
Mostly up north, but they kept creeping south
that some of them were into our area of operations.
So Hasifus was on this plane, he gets shot down.
I was in Costa Rica at the time
and as soon as the helicopter went down,
my guys called me from the Contras.
The plane went down, one of the resupplies went down.
This is the general location.
I said, I want every Contra in the southern front
to gun up and start walking in that direction
because his job is supposed to be walk south.
Or if you're further north, walk north,
but you go into the direction where friendly forces are.
Well, Hasifus just pitched a hammock
and just stayed there by the plane, by the down plane.
So then the nieces came in and picked him up.
He had all kinds of compromising shit on his phone numbers,
photographs, names of people,
and that became the beginning of that end, yeah.
And this sort of blew up the whole operation down there?
Yeah, it became a very public thing,
especially coming from somebody,
an actual American getting caught.
That was always the fear for guys like me,
not of getting killed.
I mean, everybody dies anyway, but compromised.
Now you're gonna sit in a jail somewhere
for whatever length of time.
They didn't do that with Hasifus because he cooperated.
And they showcased him and then they did
a token release kind of crap.
But he was not a warrior, he was just a guy
that happened to be the only survivor in their plane
because he was with a parachute
and he was at the tail when the plane got hit
and he just jumped out.
And this is when the whole political fiasco
broke out in Washington?
That led to the Iran Contra,
which of course I didn't know anything about him
till way after it surfaced, so.
Now the story with Iran Contra,
that was, correct if I'm wrong,
but there was seven hostages that were taken by Hezbollah
and there was a negotiation where we were to give them
weapons in exchange for the prisoners, right?
And somehow we used those.
So we basically, what we did was Israel
gave the weapons directly to the Hezbollah captors
and we resupplied Israel with some of our arms.
And in exchange, they gave us money and something else
and we basically siphoned it directly from them to Negros.
So basically we were kind of out of the loop, right?
We kept ourselves out of the loop
by resupplying the Contras with the stuff
that we were getting from Hezbollah.
Is that how?
Yeah, it's what I have read.
I've never been officially briefed on anything,
so I cannot comment on it with authority,
but yes, I've heard, and I'm sure the truth
is somewhere in the middle, whatever,
but the bottom line is they were cutting deals
with the Iranians in order to resolve some problem,
in this case, whether they were hostages
for the Israelis or whatever,
and then using that money to support the Contras
because the Bolan Amendment had kicked in
and other regulations that prohibited us
from lethal aid to these guys that could only do medical aid.
And of course, they would get killed left or right
because they were running out of ammo
and running out of medical aid.
What was the Bolan Amendment?
And why was that put in the place right in the middle
of the Contra war?
You know, I know very little about it
because you gotta understand when all this shit is happening,
I wasn't there.
Right.
I was either in the jungle or I was at Costa Rica
working 12-hour days, I don't have time for that.
Focusing on the mission, but you really become myopic
when you were in that environment
because that consumes your life.
So just what you have read or what I have read,
you know, kind of stuff.
So I have no insider information
never had anybody tell me exactly what it was about.
So how did that affect your operation down there
when that all happened?
Well, down there, pretty much shut it down.
Shut it down.
Shut it down temporarily.
They cut off all the supplies.
Yeah, we could not resupply, but again,
eventually they were brought back on,
you know, the Bolo amendment was amended
and, you know, we started resupplying them again
and that led to the resurgence
and that led to forcing the Sandinistas
to a negotiation table,
which resulted in them losing the election.
And it was a lady, I can't remember her name,
maybe by Chamorro, I don't remember,
but a lady that took over as president.
And it was a democratic government
for the four years that lasted.
And then second elections,
Ortega bought the elections for who?
And now, and so, Ortega still in power.
Ortega still in power down there.
Oh, wow.
He was one of the top Sandinistas.
And what I have heard from knowledgeable folks
is that they stole so much money
that he became a political power.
Because in those countries,
you know, you've got a couple of million bucks
to throw out for elections,
everybody's gonna vote for you.
Yeah, very corrupt.
So what happened to you after all that happened?
Well, Costa Rica, I was stuck there for six months
without a mission.
And it's funny because I started working counter narcotics
because I had not an else to do.
And you mentioned Kiki Camarena.
Two of Kiki Camarena's best friends
was the special agent in charge
and the number two at the DEA office in Costa Rica.
And both of them are very good friends of mine to this day.
Oh, really? Yeah, yeah.
And so they would come to me and go,
hey, could you help us?
We're trying to bump into this guy.
We're trying to recruit this guy.
Or who do you know in this area?
So I literally was, that's what I was doing,
helping them gain access to individuals
that could provide information for them
and helping them recruit them.
So, but that was a drop in the bucket
kind of keep me busy for the last six months.
I was there, I still melt with a contrast that were there,
but it was very infrequent and it was very discreet.
So, but yeah, that's why I wrote Kiki when you mentioned it
because I could see the pain and the anger
in these DEA officers that they're a great, great friend.
Kiki was, you know, he wasn't only killed,
he was tortured. Right.
He was brutally murdered.
Yeah, so after all this happened,
you went down to a country.
I figured it out, we won't mention it,
but I figured out what country it was
just by doing a couple of Google searches,
somewhere in South America,
where there was a Maoist Marxist philosopher,
philosophy teacher.
Well, yeah, it was a Maoist insurgency.
It was a Maoist, the ideology was,
and they did have intellectuals that ran it,
but again, I can't talk about the specifics
because even though you figured it out
on so that half the other world,
because I was surprised that they left it,
you know, some of this stuff in there.
Right.
Or actually, I was more surprised that they omitted
the place because it's two and two is four.
Right, it was very easy to find out.
It was, I mean, I've had that come up before,
but again, I stick by my word no matter what I do,
I ain't talking about it.
How many times did you have to go back and forth with CIA
to get before you published your book?
Like how many different versions
did you have to go back and forth to get stuff redacted?
It's a very labor-intensive process,
but I was fortunate enough that three of my protegees
in the agency were now heavy hitters.
One specifically was my deputy in the last programs
that I talked to you about earlier,
and he retired as a five-star in our outfit.
So it took six months to get the book cleared, okay?
And the publisher was extremely flexible
because I couldn't even put something on paper
in front of them.
I could brief them morally.
I would never say that I was in the Philippines
or Costa Rica or whatever.
I was in this country,
this is the kind of stuff I was able to do.
I was here, I did this, I was in Diba, and on and on.
And then I had to do a draft,
like a executive summary of the book,
present that to the agency.
They approve it.
Now I can put that in front of the publisher.
Then I wrote the book.
And the publisher never saw it.
When the book was ready for scrutiny,
I brought it to the CIA.
We had back and forths, quite a few of them,
and the Costa Rica one was one of the big ones
that I was able to win back
because it had been acknowledged in previous books
that were cleared by the agency.
But it only took six months, which is actually pretty quick.
And the reason was that my senior guys
would send their lawyers over to the production board
and say, the boss wants to know
what's the status of Prado's book?
He's dying to read it.
They already read it.
And so they take it from the bottom of the pile
and put it back on.
And after a few of those,
within six months, it got approved.
So when you were down there in South America working,
what was going on?
Were you doing basically the same thing
you were doing in Costa Rica?
Were you trying to find people to recruit
to get more intel on what was going on?
First of all, I guess give me some context
on what was actually going down in that country.
There was a major corruption,
huge corruption in that country.
And there were two terrorist factions,
one being in Malice, the other was in Marxist, one only.
They were rampant in the capital.
They were literally blowing up shit in the capital.
We would go to a restaurant on a Thursday
and then next Monday, we hear that they burned it
to the ground because there were capitalist places.
So the terrorism, and again, remember before 9-11,
a lot of the terrorism was geography-based,
Latin America, Southeast Asia, with 9-11,
and even before, but it began the international aspect
of terrorism when you're actually having
international terrorists flying from different places
to do damage.
So my job was to be the terrorist referent there.
So I worked with some of the locals
that were in the business.
I helped them recruit, I helped them get training,
and the terrorists that I recruited
was it was not one based on strengths.
That's why I said we don't always do it in strength.
It was actually pretty much extortion.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, well, what happened was this guy,
this guy was part of a cell of the Maoist organization,
and he was what they call a mule.
He's the guy that would take the explosives
to the dumb shits that were gonna plant it
because they were too dumb not to get noticed.
It's a suspicious, and this kid was a college kid.
So he would pick up explosives from them here
and they would say, okay, you need to drop it off over here
and then something would blow up nearby that area
kind of stuff.
So we knew that he was a, we had a source,
they had a counterpart side of source
that was reporting on the cell,
and one of the guys, the one that I recruited,
was he liked to smoke pot,
and that is a no-no for these guys.
They can sell cocaine because it's going
to the United States of Western government,
you cannot use any of the drugs
that are existing in this country.
So we knew that if he got caught smoking dope,
they would shoot him.
They literally just put him against the tree and shoot him.
They were brutal, they were brutal.
So we busted their cell,
and everybody else went into interrogation.
He got pulled aside by this friend of ours,
and he says, I got a one-time offer.
I want you to talk to this guy.
So whether he believed it or not,
I don't care because he said yes
and gave us some incredibly good insights
into everything that this group was doing.
But I was playing a foreign Latin American businessman
that did security.
So my pitch to him, I showed him my alias passport,
and I said, this is who I am.
This is where I'm from.
I don't give a shit about your country.
I don't give a crap about your politics.
I don't give a crap about the terrorists.
I'm a businessman.
I provide security to major corporations here.
I need to know what's going to happen before it happens.
If you help me with that, you get whatever it was a month,
and I don't turn you back to Bubba over here
who's going to put you with the rest of the guys.
And I ran this guy for a year.
He lasted a year, and he provided...
He did one, particularly, it's in the book,
that he called me, this was Harry,
because a lot of the times, not all the times,
but a lot of the times I would go meet him
with my counterpart, with the local counterpart,
the legal counterpart.
And my counterpart was out of town,
and this guy activates our very sophisticated
communication system, he's called Beepers.
Remember when Beepers came out of here?
Yeah, that for us was a,
that was great, great technology for us.
So he calls me, and it's a coded number that says
who it is, where we're supposed to meet,
and the level of urgency, depending on the numbers.
So I get this call from this guy, I need to see you tonight.
So now I'm going solo.
So I'm body armor on, I got two guns, and all this good,
because now I gotta go into his neighborhood,
because he can't come to mine, because he stands out.
So I go over there, do what we call a car pickup,
he goes around the corner, I pick him up,
and we go, we drive around, and he tells me
that he had just passed a bunch of explosives
to three knuckleheads, and that his concern was,
he don't know the target,
but I know that the Marine House is not too far from there.
So I went back to the station, drew on the map,
the circle that said, okay, make sense that it would be
in here, and the Marine House was at the very border,
but what happened was, they attacked the Chinese mission,
because Chinese are not Maoist.
They're not, yeah, Chinese are communists.
There's a difference between Maoism and communism.
In the old days, yeah, there was a Maoist regime.
Well, anyway, so they, as a statement of their
being pissed off at the Chinese for not supporting them,
they blew up two or three of his cars,
but do you talk about validation?
This guy tells you, hey, tomorrow,
they're supposed to blow up something
in this one mile circle, and lo and behold, kaboom.
So it was pretty cool.
And that would build their credibility.
Were there, I mean, there had to have been times
where people would give you good intel,
just because they were, quote unquote, double agents,
or were working for them, trying to give you
so much good information, getting you to trust them,
and then give you some bad information
down the road.
That's the name of the game,
and that's where validation is very important.
A lot of people focus on the polygraph, and it is a tool,
but what we do is we operationally test the individuals.
Again, I'm not gonna go into great detail,
but we would set up a scenario where he's instructed
to do A, B, and C, and either by surveillance
or technical means, we'd know where he did it or not.
And that's a validation process.
He's reporting to somebody else or something like that.
But it is a chess game.
It's not a checker game.
This goes on very, very frequently.
There was a very blatant incident
in that same country we were talking about.
The DEA had been running a source,
a narcotic source, who was golden.
They had busted, I don't know how many dozen labs
because of this guy's intel.
Well, unbeknownst to us, the guy lost access.
He got into a pissing contest with the couple,
and he was kicked out of the fraternity.
But he was used to this money
that he was getting from DEA.
So he started talking about thread information
from the Maoist group against the US ambassador.
Everybody spun up, everybody spun up.
And Dean Hinton was the ambassador.
He'd been the ambassador for CT, for counterterrorism also.
And he told the chief of station,
he says, where's Prado?
I want him in on this meetings.
So the chief says, okay, yeah, we'll have him here.
And they started telling me
all about what this guy was reporting.
So the DEA had the source,
the ambassador was getting all kinds of thread information
through the reporting,
and they asked me to sit in the briefing.
And the guy, they were reporting,
oh, you know, the guy says this,
and they did that, and they did this.
And some of it was right.
So there were certain things that were right.
But remember that these terrorist groups
and these narcotics groups coexist.
And in certain places,
the terrorists run the narcotics trade
in a lot of Latin American places,
including Columbia during the day.
So for me, something smelled wrong.
It was like, yeah, I couldn't pinpoint it at first.
So I said, look, I would be willing to work with you guys
and even meet this guy if it's,
so under DEA cover, they would bring me in as one of theirs.
I started meeting with the guy that was handling,
to a friend of mine to this day, and the source.
And after about two or three meetings,
I came back to my boss and I said, this ain't right.
He goes, why?
He goes, this guy knows too much.
This organization is known for compartmentation.
He's talking about what's going on over here
and who, yeah, he would know some of the people
that were pretty much common knowledge
in their surroundings, but it was just too much.
It was just too much.
And that's something that you guys look out for?
Of course, of course.
It was just, in a terrorist organization,
only a couple of purposes know everything that's going on.
And it ain't gonna be a former narco guy on that level.
So we set him up, he came in with some information
and actually what happened was he called in
at the last minute, said, and he kept saying
that so and so and so and so and so were meeting
and that they were planning to take down the ambassador
and they had RPG7s and all this kind of crap.
And so he called me and I had told him,
I said, listen, all this stuff is great,
but we need to get in front of the action here.
You're reporting things that have happened.
We need information of something that's about to happen.
That was the bait.
I said, and if you score on that one, you could retire.
I'm telling you right now, I will set you up.
So the guy, of course, gets greedy.
That's what we were hoping.
He wants to get out of this crap anyway.
And he calls me at the last minute,
say, hey, tonight is seven o'clock.
They're gonna have a meeting at this particular house
and Pedro's gonna be there and Pablo's gonna be there
and Juanito's gonna be there.
The same names he'd been regurgitating.
I said, oh, wow.
Gee, man, well, thanks.
Next time, try to give me a little bit of my heads up
because it's already five o'clock.
Well, what he didn't know was
we already had talked to our local counterparts
and they had a raid team going to the safe house,
the safe house.
And all that was there was an old man sitting
in the toilet and an old lady knitting or something.
It was all bullshit.
And so we were able to confront him
and he started crying and broke down and admitted
that he had lost his access to the narcotics side
of the house, which he had incredible credibility
to reporting on terrorism,
which he had peripheral vision at best.
So what ended up happening to that guy?
Well, he was fired.
He was just fired?
Yeah, yeah.
But you guys made sure not to like make him sour.
Exactly, you know, the less the look, you know.
Your punishment is you're out of the business, you know?
And again, he wasn't a political guy.
It's not like somebody was a penetration
of another service or another government.
He was a drug dealer.
So it's not like he could go to the cops
and go, you know, CIA was trying to recruit me.
Right, right.
And what year was this?
88 through 90.
88 through 90.
So we're getting up close to the point in time
where you went to the Philippines
and then did you actually go to North Korea?
Not North Korea.
I went to South Korea.
You went to South Korea.
I was the chief liaison in South Korea
and eventually I became the chief of the Koreas
for the agency and the NSE.
You mentioned in your book like how they were,
like they're such an insignificant part of the world,
but, and they're such like a locked down police state.
Like it's the number one,
the number one like highest locked down police state
on earth, but they have like such an incredible
vast arsenal of nuclear weapons and nuclear capabilities.
What was the CIA's like level,
like on the scale of concerns for the CIA
and for national security, where did the Koreas rank?
Very, very, very high.
As a matter of fact, in East Asia division,
which is where I was when I got the job,
I was the deputy division chief for the Koreas program.
It's that big of a deal.
It was China, Korea, Russia.
Not so much because of the,
besides the nuclear threat and everything else,
you got to remember is how it would destabilize an area
that is all surrounded by our allies.
South Korea and Japan, Australia in far away, Philippines,
all these countries could be affected by a major war,
especially a nuclear war in the peninsula.
So the, yeah, it was very high on our operational directors.
Every year, the administrations through the heads
of the services come up with a list
of how we're going to prioritize the funding
and the resources that we have.
And the Korea issue was always very high.
So what kind of stuff were you doing in Korea?
I can only talk about a few things,
but primarily we were working with the Korean counterparts,
helping them to do worldwide operations.
And one that I was very surprised
that they allowed me to talk about
was I was already chief of the Koreas.
I had just made a flag rank with the outfit
and one of my guys came over and says,
hey, you know, there's this guy that the military has
that's talking to a North Korean in Latin America.
And the guy is really greedy.
He's asking for more stuff.
And I said, so what's your plan?
He goes, well, you know, we need somebody
that will go in there like this guy's boss or something
that he's bringing his boss in to meet him
and see if we can recruit the guy.
And I said, okay, who do you think?
He goes, you chief, native Spanish speaker, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, I said, damn, that's a good idea.
So we did, I went out there and we had the room wired
and for video and sound.
And this young guy who's the agent of the North Korean
had told him, hey, you know, senior friend of mine
is coming down, you know, I trust him.
He's got great stuff.
So I show up with a briefcase and put the briefcase down
and say 11 o'clock, we're drinking Scotch at 11 o'clock
because Koreans drink like fish.
So we're doing shots and we're talking about, you know,
and what he didn't realize is that I had planned
the whole conversation.
So, you know, I would say, hey, Dan, what do you think of John?
And John's a flaming asshole.
And so what do you think about Jim?
Oh, Jim is a great guy.
Now I got you on voice that I could go flip.
And now John's the asshole and Jim is the good guy.
So I asked him loaded questions that I could adult.
Like, you know, your great leader, Kim Jong-il,
you know, what do you think of him?
Oh, he's the greatest one.
So what do you think of President Reagan
or whoever the hell he was, you know?
Oh, he's a son of a bitch, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, I agree.
Now we could help him compromise.
Anyway, this was a compromise too.
So finally we got into, you know,
I figure I need to do something here
because I can't keep drinking like this.
And I said, look, let's get down to business here.
You know, you've been staring at my briefcase
because I had the briefcase on top of there.
It was full of money.
And I said, you know, let's work together on this.
He goes, yes.
And we reach his over to shake hands.
I opened up the briefcase that of course
had been photographed of him taking money.
Oh my God.
And I held onto his hand and I said,
welcome aboard, great to for you
to be working with the Americans.
And he got, he tried to pull my hand out.
I was pretty beefy back then and it wasn't going anywhere.
I'm crushing his hand.
This guy almost had a heart attack.
We knew that his wife was dying of cancer,
that he was, you know, he was getting old.
He was an older guy, almost as old as I am now.
And that was my pitch.
I said, look, you help us and we will take care of your wife.
We will take care of you.
Wow, smile for the cameras.
Yeah, and smile for the cameras.
And he said, look, I need to think about this.
I think you got 24 hours.
Well, he didn't, but we were able to,
we had enough that we were able to compromise him
that he was doing the legal stuff in that particular country.
And he got kicked out and out of our understanding
is he went back to one of the infamous Gulags
in North Korea.
Oh wow.
I had a special drink that night.
What, like, what do you think is going on right now
between how embedded are we in that part of the world,
especially in North Korea,
when it's a place that's so locked down like that.
And it's such like a, it's like a,
it seems like a place that doesn't even exist on earth.
You know what I mean?
Especially when you hear stories about what's going on there
and some of the people that have come out
and talked about their experiences there.
How, how much do we have that place?
How much control do we have of that part of the world?
Look, they don't call them hard targets for a reason.
You know, come on, they're very hard not to crack.
Their leadership is self-contained
on the same little boat.
If one sinks, everybody sinks.
The masses are completely brainwashed and controlled.
They're starving.
There's one radio station, government owned.
There's one TV station, government owned.
Nothing gets in there.
It's like you said,
it's the hermetically sealed country in the world.
So getting information from them or sending people,
like, you know, I remember the James Bond movie
where he goes to North Korea
and gets the guy with the diamonds
and all this kind of crap, that's bullshit.
You know, now do we have contingencies
for going into North Korea?
Of course we have to militarily and otherwise,
but that's off the topic.
We target those in the North Koreans worldwide
when they're overseas serving.
That's where we work with other liaison services
to target North Koreans and try to recruit,
compromise, or whatever,
because part of the North Koreans
only have two natural enemies, U.S. and South Korea.
Those are the only people that they are enemies with.
Everybody else, they're just business.
So they could be in Latin America,
they could be in Southeast Asia,
they could be anywhere and be there as diplomats,
but in reality, the main thing that's...
Did China and Russia are friendly with them?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh yeah, China truly supports, yeah.
Right, right, right.
So yeah, it's there, China is the floater.
And you know, what people don't remember
is that North Korea after the Korean War
was actually an expansion of the Chinese.
Right.
And they used, when the 38th parallel was established
as the DMZ, the Demilitarized Zone,
that became a buffer for China.
They don't give a shit about North Korea.
They didn't want the Americans through the South Koreans
to have access to their border,
so they supported North Korea and created North Korea.
And of course, as they grew, they got their own power,
the original Kim was a real warrior,
his subsequent sons and grandsons
and great-grandsons are all idiots,
but he was a real deal.
He was a major fighter.
The Chinese respected him.
He had great relationship with the Chinese,
and they made him leader, and he was smart enough
to really crank down and crack down
and crank down and develop things.
So it's a very important target
because it could destabilize a very important area
of the world for everybody.
Do you think we would try to recruit people
like Dennis Rodman, people that go in there
and be friendly with Kim Jong-un
and sit next to him while they watch basketball games?
Would that be something that we would do,
or would that be too risky?
Yeah, it's very risky.
Usually, the way that it works is you find people
that already have the access, foreign nationals,
and you ask them to report or at least be debriefed.
You cannot, in good conscience,
send somebody to spy in North Korea.
That's immoral.
You're not gonna survive.
But if you are having natural meetings with Mr. X
and he's of interest, I can ask you 1,000 questions
that you would be able to just notice.
How's his health?
Does he have drinking habits?
Whatever it is, that's how you start.
What was the atmosphere?
What was the town like with the gasoline?
Because we don't know.
Other than overhead, we don't have no eyes in North Korea.
So, yeah, that's the way that we were working.
And so, at what point, I think you went from working
in Korea to working for Alex Station, is that right?
Yeah, I left, Korea was a great tour for me.
I did a lot of good work with the guys there.
I got my GS-15, which is our kernel rank,
and I went back to CTC, to the Counterterror Center.
And I was a branch chief.
I had the Palestinian branch, which was kind of cool.
I had all the Palestinian diasporas groups
and stuff like that.
It was a lot of fun.
But I had only been there like a couple of months
when I got called up to the front office
and the then chief of ops, I became chief of ops
a decade later, but the then chief of ops called me in
and says, you've been selected to be the deputy chief station
for a virtual station.
I go, what the hell is a virtual station?
He says, well, it's the first thing that we're creating.
It is a station dedicated to one target
that will not be housed at headquarters.
So that means to you, because the way that we have
to work things, if you're working,
if you have something in Latin America
that affects the Chinese, you have to go through headquarters.
You're waiting for that country,
but you have to coordinate the thing.
As a station itself, this bin Laden station
was gonna take care of anything bin Laden.
We could go out to any station in the world and go,
we need you to look into this.
So he gave us that focus and that granularity.
But the funny part was that he says,
he's telling me all about this,
and you're gonna be the deputy chief of station
and senior ops officer, Mike Shoyer is the senior analyst
and he's the one that knew all about the target.
And I asked the chief, I said, so who are we going after?
He goes, Usama bin Laden.
I go, who?
He goes, exactly.
Who said that?
The chief of ops, I asked him, I said,
who are we going after?
And he said, Usama bin Laden.
And I said, who?
I'd never heard of him, you know.
And lo and behold, I'm the deputy
and I'm learning really fast about what this guy was.
And we worked that, I was only there for about 18 months.
My wife had a medical emergency and I had to leave,
but I'm a plank owner of the Alex station
that eventually got bin Laden and saw we're here
and a bunch of other people.
So I'm very proud of that one.
Alex station was run by,
explain to people who Michael Shoyer was.
Michael Shoyer was one of the smartest guys
I ever worked with.
Unfortunately, he became very bitter with the agency
and became very bitter with a lot of people.
Most people that I know don't talk to him anymore,
which is a shame,
because he was definitely a brilliant,
brilliant, brilliant Intel officer.
Mike was already a senior grade.
He was already flag rank.
He was an SIS one and I was his deputy.
And the guy was brilliant.
He just knew everything that was going on all the time
and he had incredible memory
and an incredible work ethic.
We used to kick him out of the office.
Really?
You got a baby, go home.
You know, we'll stay here, we'll take care of this.
So he was a guy that was a lot of fun to work with.
He had a great following because he was a leader.
He led by example.
Unfortunately, when politics again,
kept preventing us from doing what we wanted to do,
people started getting bitter.
And there was a couple of tipping points for,
during my short, not short,
but by my initial tenure there in Alex Station,
we had,
Ben Laden was in Cartoon.
We had eyes on him.
And he was there, what we call in the white.
He was totally unaware, he didn't care.
He did not feel threatened.
He did not foresee because at the time,
Cartoon was a safe haven for terrorists.
That's where Carlos the Jackal was hanging out.
If the deal was in Cartoon that if you were a wanted man
and could pay your way, you were welcome.
You were not in hostile territory.
So Ben Laden was, yeah, he had a few guys with him
once in a while.
Sometimes he would drive his white Mercedes all by himself.
And a legendary agency guy by the name of Billy Waugh,
former Green Beret that came to the agency.
Very dear friend of mine.
Unfortunately, we lost him a couple of months ago.
Billy had complete knowledge of where he was doing.
He had a blind spot where he could photograph him
when he came and come.
He followed him.
He'd run around the compound, count weapons,
you know, all this kind of stuff.
He was an incredible dude.
And we kept proposing disruption.
We need to disrupt this guy.
We know what he's doing.
All the intel that's coming in
is that he is training terrorists.
All the overhead is showing terrorist camps
that are training in terrorist activity
that he's sponsoring and so on and so on and so on.
And the administration would never allow us to do something
while he was in cartoon.
And this is Clinton at the time?
Yes, it was definitely Clinton.
And then when he had to leave Sudan,
he went to Afghanistan.
And that was a game changer
because now we had no access to him.
And the moral of the story here is
if we would have been allowed to render
we could have killed him any time.
But if we would be able to render him,
think of the outcome.
Al Qaeda would have not continued.
The coal probably wouldn't have happened.
The attack on the coal, the ship, the coal.
The bombing of our two embassies in Africa
probably wouldn't have happened.
And if you want to stretch it,
even 9-11 would be a much lesser probability.
So we had a chance with minimum risk
in a country that can't do a damn thing about it
because if a 12-man Green Beret ODA goes in there
and snatches this guy's ass out
and goes out, what are the Sudanese gonna do to the Americans?
Right.
Close the embassy?
Okay.
Right.
Yes, send me back home.
Thank you.
You know, rather than being in the shithole.
A lot of people like to put blame
on people like Michael Scheuer
and what was going on with the competition
between Alex Station and the FBI,
hiding information and not working together.
A lot of people like to say
that that is exactly why 9-11 happened
is because of the incompetence
and the unwillingness to share information.
What do you say to people like that?
Adulterated bullshit.
Okay, and I'll give you an example.
From the day that we started Bin Laden Station,
there was an FBI agent in Alex Station.
GS-14, FBI agent, great guy.
We work great together.
Who was he?
I can't tell you.
Oh, you can't say it.
I don't reveal names unless they know that I'm doing this.
But thank you.
Fair enough.
The other part of it is the,
and I think when we were having our social talk,
I mentioned that our director was Cofor Black.
And we had three deputies.
One was for intelligence, which was Ben Bonk.
One was for the FBI, for law enforcement,
which was a senior, SIS, whatever, FBI guy.
And I was the chief of ops.
I was deputy for ops.
And so the, anything that the station put out
or anything that went, they're seeing this.
They're the belly button, both at the station level
and at the other.
That there were bad communications?
Absolutely.
Did the FBI know things that we should have known?
Absolutely.
Are there things that maybe we could have done better?
Absolutely.
Look, if you're batting 300 in the espionage business,
you're all of fame material, okay?
So it's one of these things.
There's a lot of bloody noses before you get gold,
but that is unadulterated bullshit.
There was a story, I believe,
that recently came out about a guy named Al Bayoumi
who was trying to recruit two Al Qaeda operatives.
And I believe, I forget,
I think it was that he was Saudi intelligence
trying to recruit two Al Qaeda guys through the CIA.
And I guess they lost track of these guys in the FBI.
Are you familiar with this story?
No.
It's after my time, but it does happen.
I mean, we work, again, we work that target
with compatible allies.
And in some cases, the Saudis are compatible
on the things that is convenient to them too.
The Egyptians could sometimes help other countries
out there would help.
So yeah, I guess the story is it's about the Saudis,
the Saudi guy was trying to recruit these two Al Qaeda guys
for the CIA and they kind of like lost these guys.
And two of these guys that they were trying to recruit
ended up being one of the hijackers.
Both of them were part of the hijacking team on 9-11.
And I guess that just goes to,
part of all of the incompetence.
And a lot of people love to speculate about like,
okay, what was going on with these pilots
that were here training in Florida
and they were Saudi Arabia was protecting them or whatever.
I'm not super technical on the details,
but Saudi Arabia had heavy involvement in it
and Bin Laden wanted a war, right?
He wanted a war and they knew about it.
And they wanted us over there, right?
Like Israel wanted us over there
and Saudi Arabia wanted us over there.
And then Bin Laden, obviously he wanted to start a war.
So there's just, there's so many moving parts
to this whole thing, it's just, it gets so convoluted.
Yeah, and the problem is, is the conspiracy theories
that kick in, you know, I'm an intel officer.
I do not speculate, I work on facts
and I don't want to longer have access to facts
or like I read the same thing that you read.
But the agency would have not,
he would, the Saudi would have not been recruiting
this guy for the agency.
He would have been in coordination with the agency.
Oh, okay, right.
The agency hand, he may, the recruited person
may never know that FBI is behind,
I mean the CIA is behind this particular operations
because we're doing it through the Saudis
or the Egyptians or whatever the hell is helping us.
The conspiracy theories are there,
that there's people that tell you,
well, the Saudis knew and supported the 9-11.
I've never seen any proof of that.
That they were contributing money to Bin Laden?
Yes, but Bin Laden was also extorting them.
Right.
He was a very powerful man financially.
His dad was a huge construction guy.
He was one of the richest guys in Saudi Arabia.
And he would, Bin Laden would extort money from,
you're not a good Muslim if you don't give me money
for my cause.
And they would say, oh, shit,
this guy's gonna kill me and they would.
So he was exploiting that.
The level of complicity on the part of the Saudis
I cannot speak to,
if there were not some rogue elements
or some elements that were supportive,
I would be surprised because I'm sure that they were.
And we see this in Pakistan as another example
of you never know who you're dealing with.
You may have one guy in the local service
that is straight, narrow, anti-terrorist, blah, blah,
and then the guy sitting next to him
is just sitting there going like,
okay, now I know what you're doing.
So it is a tough game and it is,
but I have never seen anything internally
and even externally that has convinced me
that the Saudis had a direct pipeline
into this kind of thing.
I mean, there's people saying like,
the Saudis left New York before the 9-11 happened
and all this kind of bullshit.
I don't know, I've never seen true documentation of that.
Remember, we don't do anything in the United States.
So, yeah, we are forbidden from working in the United States.
When we do anything in the United States,
we have to do it with our FBI counterparts.
So let's say that you're a Joe American
that is traveling to this country
and dealing with the president on business
and we want to know more about it
and I approach you to recruit you.
There has to be an FBI person in front of you.
We are not allowed to work in the United States.
Oh, okay.
So, Billy Waugh, how did you meet Billy?
I was in the Philippines.
It was 1990, early 1990,
and Billy was in charge of our surveillance
and counter-surveillance for the station.
We hit it off right off the bat.
I mean, I knew who he was
because I was a ground branch paramilitary guy,
which is where he was home-based
after his incredible Green Beret career.
And he was actually the guy in charge
of following us around, making sure that we're safe,
checking our houses, looking for suspicious people.
So we hit it off, we became friends,
and then obviously later on when I opened up Alex Station
in knowing what I knew that he knew on the ground,
we got even closer,
because I would sit down and pick his brains every chance I got.
He'd say, what's the layout here?
And we've stayed friends ever since.
Unfortunately, we lost him a couple of months ago.
I'm very proud to say that I got him an interview
with my friend Tom Marshall at Recoil Magazine,
and that is the last cognitive interview of Billy Waugh
on record.
And it's important to me and it's important to the family
because the community cannot afford to forget individuals
like Billy Waugh.
They are the heroes and the icons
and those giants that we walk into the shadows.
I have people tell me, say, oh, you're this, you're that,
I go, no, no, no.
I am a warrior and I am a patriot,
but I'm not a legend, I'm not a hero,
and Billy Waugh is a hero.
Dewey Clarridge was a hero or a legend, you know.
So Billy was the real deal.
I'm very honored to be friends with him
and seeing him to the end.
Yeah, some of the stories about him are incredible
about how he was, you know, he hunted down the jackal
and he got within a couple hundred feet of Bin Laden
many times.
What was he doing?
He was taking photography, he was doing photography
of Bin Laden, like tracking him down.
What was he actually doing?
He was surveilling him.
Sometimes through camera, sometimes through cars
or sometimes, you know, follow him around.
This was in cartoon?
It's cartoon.
Okay.
Yeah, so he was doing that.
And at the same time, Billy and the guy that he was with,
Greg, noticed a shady character.
You know, in cartoon, everybody's 99% black.
And here was this Middle Eastern looking guy
or Latino looking guy, Kudrowa, kind of thuggish.
And the guy came out and did one of these looking around
like, well, what's out there?
And they looked at each other and says,
that guy's gotta be somebody, white guy here
with that kind of, so they started taking pictures of him.
And I'm shortening the story for the sake of not spending
all day with you here.
You know, we crunched it, but he knew where he was.
When he sent the photos back to headquarters,
they said, that is Carlos, Elise Ramirez,
Carlos the Jackal.
And immediately, of course, you know,
in Coford Black was the chief of station at the time.
So they got very, very happy about it.
We're gonna render him, well, they came back.
He had never killed an American.
So we had no paper on him.
We could not legally extradite him to the United States
because he had never killed an American,
but he had killed French police.
So we went to the, you know, we, you know,
the agency went to the French and broke her to deal that,
okay, look, you bring your guys in and we'll take you there
and we'll hand them over to you.
And he's rotten in jail in France.
So this bureaucracy, this red tape you guys had to navigate,
that's part of the reason that I'm sure Billy Wall
was able to take out Bin Laden many times.
He could have.
Billy would tell me after we'd be sitting around
shooting the breeze and he would say,
director says, I could have killed him with a rock.
What?
I got that close to it and he did.
Did he try to get permission to?
Oh, of course we all try to get him permission
to do this kind of stuff.
And you know, you're talking to a Green Beret legend.
Right.
That his eyes on the ground and as a hell of an operator
and he's telling you, this is the weakness,
we can go in here, we can do this, we can do that.
Who are you gonna believe?
Meanwhile, the guy's like in his 70s, right?
That's incredible.
Yeah, well he was 71 when he went into Afghanistan for us.
Good lord.
I think he's a special kind of human.
He is and as I mentioned to his wife,
Lynn, who I stay in touch with,
weekly I talk to her, how's she doing and everything else.
I said, you gotta understand that for Billy
to call me friend is probably one of the best metals I wear
because that's, what higher compliment
to having a guy like Billy Walker consider you a friend.
I take that very, very much at heart.
So you're working for, you worked for Alex Station
for a little over a year, is that right?
Yeah, about 18 months.
And then from there, I had a management job in the CTC,
all the logistics and everything else.
I just couldn't afford to be 12 hours a day.
I needed to go home
because my wife had a medical emergency.
And but surely thereafter, I think after about six
or seven months, I was deputy chief
of their management group,
which is handles logistics, security,
and everything else for CTC.
But after about six or seven months of that,
the guy who had been the chief of station in Seoul, Korea,
became the division chief for East Asia division.
And he called me up and he asked me to come back.
Oh, really?
And that's when he gave me the careers.
That's where he made me chief of the Korea's program.
I was the senior rapper, the agency of the NSE
for the program.
And that's why I made senior grade
thanks to that job there.
Wow.
And so when you were going back to when you were
like the third ranking guy in the CTC,
what sort of stuff were you guys doing to Bin Laden
to sort of like to pin him?
Like you guys were cutting off his funding certain ways?
Oh yeah, yeah.
We were attacking him in all fronts.
I mean, you know, we were trying to shut down his money,
we were trying to get every liaison service
to work with anybody.
Because again, Al-Qaeda is,
we used to call him the godfather
because he was the guy that had his fingers
in every organization he could approach
because he had money.
And you know, the enemy of my enemy is,
but that kind of stuff.
Right, right, right.
So they, definitely we went after their money
through liaison guys, trying to recruit
some of the people on the ground,
trying to disrupt his operations.
And most importantly, trying to geolocate him.
But this is one of the things that again,
people always say, well, God damn it, you know,
with all the resources the United States has,
you know, and in Afghanistan,
we could never find him, you know, when he was there.
And I will tell you professionally,
as a former para rescuement,
I've been on searches of people that have gone down
in the United States that wanted to be found
and we knew the flight path and we never found them.
Wow.
And this happened in the Rockies.
I was at Hill Air Force Base at the time
and they put us on planes trying to look for these guys.
The point of the story, and you see this every year,
people that get caught out in the wilderness
and they perish out there.
And people are looking for them.
Right.
And those people want to be found.
Now imagine getting them out of the United States,
putting them in a hostile country
where everybody hates you and loves him.
And how are you gonna find out
which of the 10,000 caves he's in?
Come on, you know.
Yes, we had opportunities early on.
We might have been able to grab him before he went to.
Michael Shore actually wanted to do a lot of strikes
on different places that he could have been
and he got denied on that.
Yep, yep.
What was 9-11 like for you?
Where were you at?
What were you doing?
I was watching a program a couple of days ago
and they showed the planes going into the towers.
And you talk about PTSD flashbacks.
That one's under my skin.
Because it happened in our watch.
We have friends.
I had a very senior FBI guy, John O'Neill,
who had befriended me, who was one of the ones
that was killed in that attack into the building.
He had become the head of security for the Twin Towers
and he went in there, he got a bunch of people out.
The last time he went in, never came out.
So it was very personal, it was very visceral.
I was literally standing outside of Cofer's office
waiting for him to get off the phone.
And they had a big TV there
and I saw the first plane hit.
I thought it was like a twin engine Cessna or something
that had hit because it had no way
of imagining the size of the magnitude.
And about a few minutes later,
you know, they're counter-terrorist thing.
One of the reasons I love the center
is we have representatives from every federal agency
in the United States.
We have Secret Service.
We have Diplomatic Security Board, ATF guys, DEA guys.
They're all part of the counter-terrorist center.
So that way they can coordinate with their agencies
and help us with their expertise, right?
So we had an FAA guy.
And the FAA guy comes to me and goes,
hey chief, we got a problem.
We go, what's that?
He says, we have four aircraft
that have switched on their emergency signal
and none are responding to our calls.
I said, oh, shit.
And just a moment, second plane hits it.
Oh no.
It says the buildings.
And I remember turning over to Cofer's chief of staff
and I said, I need you to get a cable out
to every station in the world.
Number one, watch your sick.
This is not an isolated event.
Number two, all resources go to finding out
who the hell this is.
Kid liaison, hits assets.
Anybody who may have information on this.
And then the fight began.
I mean, I literally, I would spend, not me,
everybody there would spend two or three days in the office.
I slept in the office three days.
I would shower in the gym.
I would go home on the third day to see my wife, my kids.
New change of clothes and come back.
Those were the hours we were keeping.
And I told you that there was a vignette
that represents in my mind and in my heart
the ethos of the agency officers that we have.
As chief of ops at CTC, I owned all the components,
including the UBLs part of it.
But primarily, Hezbollah was another one
that I was very attached to.
So here's on fire.
It's like seven o'clock at night.
I probably had 13 cups of coffee in a protein bar.
And I'm walking back to my office
and there's this lady named Christie.
She was the deputy chief of the Hezbollah branch.
And she was at her computer looking at things.
She was seven and a half months pregnant.
So I walked up to Christie and I said,
Christie, what the hell are you doing here?
She goes, well, you know, until now,
nobody has killed more Americans than Hezbollah
and I need to make sure that it wasn't something
that we missed.
And you know Boston, she's poking fingers at me.
And I let her talk and I looked at her and I said,
look, Christie, I've delivered two kids in my life.
None of them were mine.
I ain't delivering a third.
You're getting your ass home.
And the reason I tell the story is this,
because later on, she told me one of the times
after she had the baby and everything else,
she says, Rick, she says, every birthday
that my daughter has, I remember what you did.
And he says, what the hell was I thinking?
And here's the point.
What is the strongest impulse in humanity, a mother?
You don't mess with Mama Bear when she's got cubs.
So imagine, imagine the level of focus, determination,
that you were in a building that could have been a target
because we were evacuated.
The whole CIA was evacuated
because we thought that fourth plane was coming our way.
The only people to stay were the people in CTC.
You stayed?
No, we stayed.
Well, we were all in the building.
Very few people left because they had to pick up kids
or whatever it was.
Most of them would come back the next day or whatever.
But yeah, they stayed.
The building was emptied.
And here is a eight month pregnant woman
totally obfuscating the realities
that she's got a baby in her belly
and she tells us, I don't know what I was thinking.
I said, you were being a patriot.
You were being a patriot.
Look, if that doesn't typify a good CIA officer,
I don't know what the hell does.
Wow, that's heavy, man.
It is.
That's why I love that story.
It really crystallizes it.
Yeah, man.
There's people, like we talked about earlier,
from the people you were working on on the ground
in Nicaragua and Honduras,
you're dealing with human beings
with shit that affects them personally
in their daily lives.
And it's myopic, they're not looking
at the big picture and then the politics.
And they don't have the benefit of a 20 year hindsight
to look back and figure out everything
that was uncovered or discovered.
These people are trying to do the right thing
for their government and for their families.
And these are good people, patriots, like you said.
And it gives, like everything that you've done
just gives such an incredible perspective on this.
How, what changed after that?
How did your work, your daily life change?
How did the direction of the CTC change?
Well, obviously we became omnifocused on blood.
We needed to get into it, you know?
And it's funny because it never comes out.
There's a movie called 12 Strong,
which is about the first Green Beret team
that went into Afghanistan.
And it's a great movie for the Green Berets.
It's a great movie for the Task Force 160th guys
because they played.
The agency played no role in that, and that is criminal.
The first boots on the ground in Afghanistan were my guys.
Guys that I knew personally.
Gary Shrone was a team leader because he spoke the language
and he had worked with the Northern Alliance before.
When the first helicopters with that ODA came in,
Green Beret ODA came in, it was our guys vectoring them in.
And that's never mentioned.
In Mike's span was one of those guys
that eventually got killed down there.
So it was nothing, the world stopped.
Yes, we still looked at Russia.
Yes, we still look at China.
We still looked at Iran.
But the number one on the OD, operational directive,
became al-Qaeda.
So everything was focused on them.
So again, we're working with every liaison service.
I had foreign liaison coming into the building
to meet me and talk about things at least twice a week,
every single week that I was there.
So we were really turning it up, turning up the heat.
Obviously the target thing,
providing the intelligence for the targeting
and the targeting that went on from the air support side
of the house, both Navy and Air Force and aircraft.
We were kicking the shit out of the Taliban
really, really pronto.
And this was happening in real, real time.
But what really developed was,
I realized that we were kicking the crap
out of these guys in Afghanistan.
But these guys are working the world with impunity.
So I went to Kofir and I said,
hey boss, something right here.
I said, you know, we're doing all of this,
but what are we doing about these guys
who are in this country or that country
and that continent or whatever?
And I said, we ain't doing much.
So he looked at me and says,
you're the chief of ops, fix it.
I know, that's Kofir, I love him.
I would go to hell and back for Kofir.
So I said, okay, I went home.
It was on a Friday, so I had the weekend.
And my youngest son had a football game
and it was across the church.
So I dropped them off at the game.
I went into church, got in my knees.
I said, I'm gonna try to do something
that hopefully you're on board because I'm gonna do it.
So if you don't want me to do it,
hit me with a lightning bolt when I come out of here.
So I'm just telling you up front, boss.
I walk out, I'm going like this.
Shit, don't hit me.
And I sat there with a yellow pad
while the football game is going on
and started with the concept.
And the concept was this.
It was a cumulative input from my experiences
in Latin America, my experiences in the Philippines
and of course the 9-11 phenomenon, what we saw.
The problem that we had during 9-11
is we knew something was going on.
We knew there was something going on.
We just didn't know what it was.
We even knew that it was in the United States
but we didn't know where in the United States.
So we knew that that was out there.
The sources, we're all indicative of that,
indicative of that.
But we didn't have it.
And one of the models of the counter-terror center
is disrupt, prevent.
So I came up with an idea, which is a program
where I asked them to give me two to three
known members of terrorist organizations
who were in the support side of the business.
Why the support side of the business?
Shooters are a dime a dozen.
You shoot one, three cousins show up
and they'll blow you up.
The heads of organization are very difficult to get,
although we get them eventually.
But they're easily replaceable.
They always have a deputy.
They have somebody else that will rise and the thing goes on.
But the soft underbelly of any illegal organization
where there's narcotics or terrorism,
the soft underbelly is their support mechanisms
because those have to be visible.
You can not be a support mechanism
out of a cave in Afghanistan.
You have to be in a second or first world country
with contacts that you can exploit for money,
for papers, for medical care for somebody
and for explosive or whatever.
You need to have that support mechanism.
So the idea was they gave us two to three guys
from every major organization that was out there
and we were gonna go and establish their patterns of life.
Now patterns of life is what does that person do every day?
Where do they live?
What kind of car does he drive?
What routes do they take?
What little girlfriend he's got on the side?
What drug use did he have?
What gambling habits, whatever it is.
We know where that guy is gonna be
and we made this surveillance of them very successfully.
We identified all the targets that we were given
because the concept was imagine this,
imagine that you have Hezbollah
is planning something big against the United States.
And we are hearing it from everywhere.
But we don't know when or where.
Or even what, we just know it's an attack.
And all of a sudden in three different countries,
three senior Hezbollah individuals
who are support mechanism get taken out.
One maybe get compromised by putting stuff in his vehicle
and calling the cops.
Is he gonna beat it?
Maybe eventually, but he's neutralized.
Rendering another one.
And maybe shooting the third or not, whatever.
The options were there.
And the idea was if you're a criminal organization,
which terrorism is a criminal organization,
and all of a sudden three of your key operatives
get snagged, what do you think?
You're penetrated.
How the hell did they know to get Tom, Jerry and Moe
all in one time?
At the time that we're about to do this.
And that would put the brakes and hopefully allow us.
And of course, if we render one back to us,
then he may be able to under enhanced interrogations
cough up the truth.
I mean, that's the logical way to do it,
is to cut off the head of the snake,
not just take out the grunt guys,
the guys that are shooting the guns,
because that's not gonna do anything.
Which always makes me, it's so frustrating
when you look at the war on drugs,
when we're arresting the low level dealers
or the pawns or the people that are held at gunpoint
and their families are threatened
if they don't captain the ship into the port or whatever.
And all the big heads of the cartels, they all have lawyers.
Some of them are US lawyers.
They fly down there and they meet with them
and they don't get prosecuted.
They don't go to prison.
I mean, you have El Chapo,
but El Chapo is kind of a weird thing
because he was just a head of a certain part of the whole.
Now you had Escobar also,
I mean, we've had some successes,
but you're absolutely right.
The Hydra grows another head.
You know, the Hydra, exactly.
So you know-
Howard vacuums.
And they're filled very quickly.
But you gotta understand that one of the things
that the narco traffickers have is limitless resources.
We even found out there was a time,
I don't know if it's stopping us again,
but in my tenure, I remember reading about
former British SAS and former Israelis guys
going to Columbia and training the guerrillas
in terrorist tactics and in communications,
in security and tradecraft because they can afford it.
You know, every organization, I don't care.
And I use those as examples.
There's dozens of them that are gonna have real operators
that are frustrated because they weren't promoted
or whatever it is.
And somebody comes up to you,
if you spend a month down in Columbia
and you teach them A, B and C,
I'm gonna give you $500,000.
$500,000 to be him is this protein bar
that you gave me a few minutes ago.
That's it.
So now you have a guy who's starving,
is being neglected and all of a sudden you,
they're gonna put, they go down there
and they set up special communications,
submarines.
You think that these guys all of a sudden,
hey, we got, we're biased.
You have people that advise them,
hey, you could do this through a submarine,
we can get you the submarine,
we can get you trained people to go into the submarine.
So they can afford things that few countries can afford.
Right.
And with impunity because they can get to them.
They have the financial resources and the autonomy
more so than some countries do.
Oh, like both countries.
Yeah. Wow.
When you look at the monies that these guys have,
when you have apartment buildings full of money
because they can't move it or clean it all,
for them to give somebody a million dollars
to do anything is nothing.
And that's how they get their technology.
That's how they hire their lawyers.
You know, that's how they get their special training,
special communications and all this kind of stuff
that they do have.
We're getting close to our time limit,
but I wanted to kind of talk a little bit
about your view on the world today
and what's going on,
not just like with the wars that are happening,
but like, are you optimistic?
Are you pessimistic about the future of the world?
Where do you see the United States and the world
in the next 50 years?
Well, a lot is gonna depend on how we continue,
but you know, I have the advantage of having worked
in a counter-terrorist account for decades.
I have tackled communism in five different incarnations
during my time in the agency.
And for me, for what I've seen from before,
we have three or four major predator enemies
that will never go away.
That's China, Russia, Iran,
to a lesser degree, North Korea, okay?
And when we say Iran, we throw terrorism under that
because they're such a big part of that,
but you could add it as a separate entity,
also the fact about terrorists.
So we have these formidable enemies out there.
And we have lost, we as a country,
and we as a Western democracy clump together,
we have lost the credibility
of what we can do and what we should be doing.
Now, one thing that I do not, I don't talk politics,
so I'm not gonna talk about this administration,
should be doing this side or the other.
But I'm gonna give you an example, Jimmy Carter.
Jimmy Carter was a good man, a brilliant man,
a very God-loving man, an honest man, not a corrupt guy,
but he was weak, he was of, he came across as food.
So anytime that you have leadership
that cannot project the power that we do wield credibly,
predators are gonna eat you up.
Jimmy Carter, like I said, great president.
What did the Soviet Union do under Jimmy Carter?
Invaded Afghanistan.
What did Iran do?
The capture of hostages.
What happened to the Panama Canal?
We gave up the Panama Canal,
the single most strategic landmark in this hemisphere.
We gave up control of that.
The Panamanians were hollering for it either.
I mean, this is, like I said, like you said to yourself,
even the Chinese have got a big piece of that now.
So we need to understand that we need to be
a force to be reckoned with.
We still gotta be the white hat, guys.
We have to be doing it for the right reasons.
But I've always said that I hope God doesn't forsake
the United States because the day that he or she
forgets the United States, he's given up on the world.
Because we are the single power out there
that with great allies, I have great friends that are Brits.
The Brits can't carry our water 100%.
They're always there helping us.
Same with the Aussies, things with the Poles.
There's a lot of people out there,
they're really loyal allies.
But the United States has to have the credibility
to make a point.
And the example again with Jimmy Carter,
Reagan wins the election.
The very first day after he took power,
or actually the first day,
Iran releases the hostages.
Why?
Because they knew that Jimmy Carter
wasn't gonna do anything.
Eagle Claw happened because of his delays,
not because of the planning.
The weather changed, everything changed,
and you could read a lot about that Eagle Claw stuff.
But anyway, those are the kind of things that happen
when you have somebody that has the fortitude
and sits across the table and looks at the guy next to him
and you know that if you bite him,
he's gonna bite you back.
And we have to have the presence,
the higher moral ground.
But we cannot look as food.
You cannot be the champion of democracy
without having carrots and sticks.
And be credible about the fact that I will use
whichever one I need to use.
Right.
What do you think about when people like Vladimir Putin
say, there's a video of him talking to some of his officers,
he's talking about the president of the United States.
He said, I've been through many presidents,
I know what they're like.
He's like, they have all these ideas
when they're running for president,
they run on all these policies people vote for.
As soon as they get into office,
a couple of guys in black suits just like that
walk up to you and tell you how it's gonna be.
And I guess he's alluding to the fact
the CIA runs the country,
it doesn't matter who the president is.
Yes, bullshit.
That's really, that's just him playing.
Remember, he was an intel guy.
He knows what to say, he knows what to do.
The CIA can not run anything.
The CIA can only run the operations
that we are allowed by Congress
and blessed by the president.
We are what's called the third option.
First option is diplomatic.
Second is military.
The third is us, black ops.
We can do things for the president that,
so those comments are very easily to politicize
and to magnify because it plays into the president,
political problems that we're having here,
left and right and all this tugging back and forth
and being divisive.
But at the end of the day,
the biggest difference between the enemy and us
is we have three year plans.
They have 50, a hundred year plans.
So the Chinese in 1900 said,
this is where we want to be in the year 2000.
And there's no deviation for that.
There's adjustments.
Hey, we need to start buying minerals
in other of these countries and we can come,
or we need to start loaning money
through these countries so they owe us.
So they may, but their goal is this.
Russia is the same thing.
Iran is the same thing.
They don't have a Congress or anything similar
that can say, no, this is not gonna work
the way we're doing it.
The Chinese are gonna do what they're gonna do forever
until something happens.
Right.
We elect the president for four years.
What happens when he or she has three years in office?
They have to start politicking for them.
Exactly.
And they have to take their eye off the stuff.
And if there is a change of administration,
whether it's from a conservative to a liberal
or liberal to a conservative, there's gonna be changes.
And they're gonna go back and say,
no, we're not gonna do that anymore.
We're gonna focus on this.
And we started, our enemy doesn't have a problem.
They have a laser focus for the longterm
and no oversight and no argument.
The leaders say, this is what we're gonna do
and this is how we're gonna do it, and that's it.
So that's the price of democracy.
I'm gonna say that we're wrong doing it our way.
I think we just need more central popularity
in our politics than right wing and left wing.
I think we need to cater to the middle.
Like after 9-11, there was more cohesiveness
in this country than ever.
Do you think it's important that we have a common enemy?
Of course, of course, but we do have a common enemy.
I mean, anybody who thinks that the Chinese
are not our enemy is an idiot.
Anybody thinks that the Russians don't wanna control
as much of the world as they can as an idiot.
And Iran, in their sphere, they are predators.
They wanna expand, and look at the history.
I mean, the Chinese have been in an imperial country
since before Christ, okay?
The Russians come from Cossacks and Vikings.
Hello, right?
And the Iranians were the Persians,
the biggest conquerors of their epoch.
So I believe that everybody's got their DNA
and ours is the cowboy.
We're the guys that wear the white hats,
and I know I'm exaggerating and I know we have,
there's holes to be poked there.
But in overall ethos, we have a country
that's got a moral high ground.
It's a country that for the most part believes in God
and believes in the right things
and the rights of every human and so on and so on.
These people don't have any of that.
China will always want to control the world.
Anybody who tells you different, they're blowing smoke.
Russia has their goals, and they're gonna achieve them
if they do not have anybody pumping the brakes on them.
Do you think we have thought through this whole thing
that's happening right now between Russia and China
and pushing them closer together
between this Ukrainian conflict?
Like, do you think we've thought through this?
Do you think that we, a lot of people like to fear Monger
that China and Russia together would fuck us up?
But do you, even if China and Russia,
especially after reading Andy Jacobson's book,
I find it hard to believe that we would be scared at all
about China and Russia, even if they did team up,
just talking about some of the things
that we experiment with
and some of the technology that we have.
Well, look, in conventional warfare,
they don't stand a chance with us.
We've proven for the last 20 years
how vetted our military is,
the capabilities that we have developed
from drone warfare and everything else.
Right.
So in that part of it, I don't see as an issue.
As long as you have somebody on this side of the desk,
that when they look at him and go,
he will cry havoc and let loose the dogs of war.
That's the credibility that we're lacking
in many administrations.
The determination to be the power that we should be
in order to help the world.
The word really tilts it is the nuclear option.
Right.
Because you gotta understand,
and this is a lot of people go,
whoa, whoa, bomb them to shit.
I said, do you understand if one atomic bomb,
just one atomic bomb hits Moscow, the world stops,
airlines stop, electricity stops,
pollution, contamination.
So imagine if you have a war where several,
Why does that happen if a bomb hits Moscow?
Well, if an atomic bomb hits Moscow or whatever,
if one God forbid hits the United States.
You implode, it is literally the Armageddon,
because there's no benefit.
You know, when Pinatubo blew up in the Philippines
and I was there, they had to cancel all flights
for weeks and weeks and weeks
because the amount of pumice that was in the air
that would damage the engines, everything was shut down.
And that was an act of God.
That was, you know, a natural disaster.
Right, volcano.
Yeah, the volcano, Pinatubo.
Imagine multiple nuclear bombs going off
in different places, the level of damage,
the carnage, the disruption to everything
from air travel to sea travel,
and the contamination for people in the sand.
Yeah, this is the center and everything evaporates,
but this stuff moves for miles and miles
and hundreds of miles contaminating and killing people.
And so that's the ace that they are playing.
And people say, well, you know,
even if it's a nuclear war, we could kick their ass.
I would venture to say, yeah, but.
Nobody wins.
Who wants to win that one?
Right.
Let's say that at the end of the day,
half of the United States is intact
and the rest of the world is done.
What are you gonna do?
Because that's the consequences.
What do you think we would do
if we got hit on our soil?
We would have to retaliate.
I mean, you know, once somebody goes nuclear,
everybody's gonna react.
Everybody's gonna react.
Do you think we retaliate in a surgical way?
Or do you think we retaliate with more bombs?
More nukes?
I would, the surgical way is always preventive, preemptive.
Once rockets are flying with nuclear weapons on it,
there's only one thing that's gonna get them out of the sky
and that's gonna be your own firepower.
And you're talking some real serious stuff.
See, I'm 72 years old, I don't care, you know?
But I got kids and I have grandkids
and those are the ones I worry about.
What world are they inheriting?
Exactly.
Not just what United States are inheriting
because our problem is global.
Yeah, I think about that a lot too.
I bet.
If this were to happen, which country would you go to?
If the US were not the, what are you gonna tell your kids
that the US is no longer the number one superpower?
Where do you go?
I've used that line a million times
and I tell people, I say, you gotta imagine
the courage that my father had
to put his only son on an airplane
to come to a country that he may never visit
for nothing more than wanting freedom for his kid.
That is the definition of innate,
visceral need for freedom for you and your family.
And that to me is the bottom line.
I mean, we sacrifice for our families,
we do everything for our families,
God and country and all this other stuff.
But there's a very bleak perspective out there
and we need to get back to be a respected power.
And by respect, I don't mean necessarily just feared,
but there's an old line that said,
everybody likes to be liked,
but I demand that you respect me
because if not, you're gonna fear me.
And that's the kind of persons and leaders
that we have to have.
People who have the moral high ground
that they're not radicalized, right, left or center,
or whatever the hell it is,
that bring the country together rather than rip it apart.
But when they sit across a table with our allies
and say, I will help you,
our credibility, especially after this fiasco in Afghanistan,
the way that we left it,
people don't understand, it was terrible
on the guys on the ground helping us, their families,
that's all immoral, but credibility-wise,
when you go to another country and say,
hey, will you help us with this?
They're gonna go, we saw what you did in Afghanistan.
You're gonna leave us hanging.
So we have to have that credibility.
We have to have the moral high ground.
I hope it doesn't take another 9-11.
I know you alluded to that a little bit earlier on.
I hope it doesn't, but you're right.
No, 9-11 unified this country.
Well, Mr. Prado, thank you so much for your time.
I really appreciate you doing this.
And for people that are listening and watching,
tell them where they can find your book and your website.
I'll make sure I link it all below.
But one more time, just tell us what the name of your book
is and where they can find it.
Thank you.
Yeah, the book is called Black Ops,
The Life of a CIA Shadow Warrior.
And you can get it on any of the outlets,
but my website, wwwrickprado.com,
it tells you a little bit about the book,
tells you a little bit about myself.
And then it has, I think it's six links
where you could buy from Amazon or Barnes & Noble
or Warwick's or whatever they have several there
that you could choose from.
It's a New York Times bestseller.
It was number eight shortly after it came out.
And we've had great success with sales.
It's on audio as well.
And it's audio, and yep, it's also an audio.
For me, guys, this is my last firefight.
This is my last operational act,
was to try to get the word out there
of the world according to Prado, I guess, you know.
And also, we were talking about before,
your inspiration or whoever,
the person who pushed you to write this book
was Andy Jacobson.
Yeah, and Andy was the tipping point.
Colfer was a big deal in this.
Colfer had been on my butt about writing a book.
When I brought him to Blackwater, I think it was 2005,
I mean, we were always friends,
but now we're working literally next door to each other.
And he kept harping at me and says,
you know, you're always bitching
about how our agency's represented
and how our officers are maligned.
You have a story because of your background,
because of where you came from,
the fact that you could say, I experienced communism.
This was the, I was there for the contrast.
I was, it says, you have a story that you can glomp.
And as you know from the book,
there's a lot of things that I talk about
that I didn't do that colleagues did
in stuff like that.
So that started the brain cells going,
but it was definitely Annie when she visited me
to interview me for Surprise Kill Vanish
because my friendship with Billy Wah
and because of my connectivity
to our special operations, military stuff.
And she was the one that literally called her agent
in front of me and said, gotta talk to this guy.
Wow.
And we went from there.
I'm very happy it happened.
I'm glad that that opportunity came about.
Thanks again.
Thank you for your time.
We're gonna have to make this happen again.
You don't live that far.
So we'll do a follow up.
You got it.
Awesome. Thank you. Good night world.
