Howdy, Sean. How you doing? Good. How are you? Oh, I'm great. Great. Thanks for coming
all the way from San Francisco. Yeah, right. Yeah, thank you for inviting me to come on
your platform, come on your show and be able to, you know, tell my story and maybe provide
some value to your listeners. Yeah, I love stories like yours. What is your shirt? Nowhere
to go but up? Can you explain that? Yeah, so this is the nonprofit that I started. It's
actually nowhere to go but up incorporated. That's what it's the umbrella it's under. And then
nowhere to go but up project is the basically what it's going to be. And I'm building out the
board of directors right now for it. But it's going to be a living facility for males specifically
18 to 24 years old that are coming out of incarceration and reentering into the community.
And so basically it's like a one stop shop. It's like going to be a year to a year and a half
with programming and also like everything that you would need to integrate back into society
from, you know, skills to, you know, counseling to job placement, job assistance, resume building,
all the stuff that you would need to kind of like seamlessly get into society, figure out how to
become a man again, and get your dignity back and then be able to move on either, you know,
the successful ones could either come back and be teachers and work for the nonprofit itself or
just move on and continue on with life. What made you want to do all this? It sounds like a lot of
work. It is a lot of work, but my the podcast nowhere to go but up and also like my journey,
it all started with, you know, I'm part of that population. You know, I did time in federal and
state prison, not long periods of time, but, you know, enough to let me know that I don't want to
go back there. Right. And so what I ended up doing was, you know, well, let's go back to the beginning.
You know, my story is not one of those prison stories where I'm going to tell you about all
the people that I saw stabbed or, you know, all the bad things that happened while I was there.
I mean, to be honest with you, I did 18 months in the state of Nevada, and then I did 18 months in
federal. And so that's literally by the time you get there, you get comfortable, it's time to go
to the next spot. So I didn't get a chance to do any of the programming and all the stuff that
you should be able to do when you're there because you're there to be rehabilitated.
So they say, right? None of that stuff happens. There's no rehabilitation there. There may be
for some guys that are there doing 10, 15, 20 years, but a lot of that, they do on their own.
You know, they figure, okay, well, I've got enough time here. I don't like the person that I was,
so let me figure it out. But the guy that usually has about five years and under,
none of that stuff happens. So the behaviors that actually get you into prison never get dealt with.
Yeah, I got my body nice, and I was able to do 100 burpees with no problem,
and all the other stuff. But the toxic person that was inside there that got me to prison to begin
with, none of those behaviors ever were able to change. And so when I got out, it was just a
continuation of what got me there to begin with. Yeah, I did a couple of stints of clean time and
stuff like that. But let's go back a little bit further to what got me there. And a lot of that
was I grew up in an abusive household. My parents divorced when I was about five. And they used
me as like a pawn in their game, right? You know, to get back at each other. So I was the tug of
war piece. And so for me, that that was kind of like the trauma that I suffered when I was a kid
that made me angry. And I couldn't control the situation. I couldn't control what was happening.
You know, I'd go to my dad's every other weekend. And when I was there, my grandparents and him,
they would just talk horribly about my mom while I'm at the table. And so when I go back to my
mom's, I think she's this horrible person. And so I just take it out on her. And she's the reason
why I'm not able to see my dad as much as I want to. And so that just led to me being a super angry
kid. You know, I couldn't control my situation. So later on in life, I became a control freak.
But I also gotten so much trouble up until literally, like, I got kicked out of preschool,
like daycare. Like, what kind of kid gets kicked out of daycare, right? Why'd you get kicked out
of daycare? There were some kids walking behind the daycare that I was at, I go to the elementary
school that's over probably about half a mile away. And there's a big, big field. There were
some kids walking by, they were, you know, running their mouth. And like, I'm in the third grade.
I pick up a dirt cloud. And I, you know, I thought it was a dirt cloud, but there was a rock in the
middle of it. And I throw it. And it misses the person that I was trying to hit and hits a little
girl right in her face. Oh, fuck. And she starts bleeding and, you know, nothing that I was trying
to do. But, you know, that's just kind of a lot of the things that happened to me. I would do stupid
stuff and get in trouble for it. Because the thing, like something would happen that wasn't
planned on happening, but just out of circumstance, I ended up being the one that gets in trouble.
The first time I ever got in trouble with the law, same thing. I was, I would say it was a
freshman in high school. And I had over that summer, I had slept with this chick. And she was
dating some guy that I guess was a gang member. He calls up my house, leaves a message on the
answering machine, you know, the ones with the tape. So I took the tape out, went to school.
And I was a kind of kid that like, I was a chameleon. I could hang out with the drama nerds.
I could hang out with the mods. I can hang out with the stoners, the gang bangers. I can hang
out with all of them. And I would, I would just bounce around. When you were a freshman in high
school. Yeah, I know there's gang banging freshmen. Well, it's like, how old do you have to be to
be a freshman in high school, like 15 years old? Yeah, I like 15, 14, 15. Yeah, that's young. Where
were you? In Panol, California, which is near in between Richmond and Rodeo and Hercules. So it's
not really the, so all of the, so they would bust kids in from, from like the, the poorer
neighborhoods to that high school. And so I, you know, they weren't like gang bangers in the way
that you think of like, say, Bloods and Crips and stuff like that. But any kind of, it's just like
kids being a gang, right? And so what I did was is I had a couple of friends that were
involved in that. And so at lunchtime, or not lunchtime, the first break I went down,
I let them listen to the tape and they're like, Oh man, fuck that, man, let's, we're going to go
get them, right? And so I was like, Okay, cool, let's go. Lunchtime came. And
sure enough, we got in the car, went to the next, the high school over. And by the time we got there,
there was three car loads of guys. And we get out, we start walking down towards the convenience store.
I see her and him walking this way. She bolts. He keeps walking. Everybody surrounds him.
He starts to put his hand in his pocket. And somebody comes from behind me and hits him.
And then he just pinballs and then makes his way to the convenience store. Two guys catch him at
the store front, start hitting him, they pick him up and they throw him onto the counter and they
drag him across knocking all the cash register and everything else off. He ends up getting the
knife out of his pocket, which he was originally going for to begin with, and slashes one of my
friends across the face. And it's all on camera. And I never touched the dude. And I ended up getting
charged with inciting a riot. And so that was my first sort of like inkling of getting into
trouble in high school, right? My first trouble with the law. Not to mention, if we go back to
junior high, I got expelled from my junior high for having a butterfly knife and playing with it and
missing the pocket when the teacher came in and hit the floor and clank, clank, clank.
And I ended up getting expelled from that school, went to my dad's, flunked out of seventh grade,
had to go to summer school, got kicked out of that school, went to my uncles, got kicked out of that
school, went back to the school that kicked me out to begin with, and was, ended up getting like
suspended five times, got sent to the office like 37 times within half of the school year. Three weeks
before my freshman year or the summer break, they called me in and they said, you know what, Mr. Clark,
just go home. We're not suspending you. We're not doing anything. We're just,
just go. We don't want you here anymore. We're socially promoting you to the ninth grade because
you have straight Fs. And basically it's like, dude, that's how my life was, right? Like I was
constantly in trouble and then I was constantly doing things to reinforce me being a bad kid.
And it just, it just went and went and went. And the meth started when I was, well, it wasn't
called meth back then. It was called Crank. This is escalating quickly. Yeah. It was called Crank,
is a dirty biker dope. It's really stinky, nasty stuff. But how old were you now? 15, 16. Okay.
And so I start doing that, start getting in a lot of trouble, running away, not coming home.
My mom ends up, I think I go to juvenile hall once. I did a 151, 151 days at the boys ranch.
But my mom ended up giving me up as a ward of the court to the state
because she couldn't control me. You know, I'm running away all the time. I'm not coming home,
not sleeping, you know, being your mom has like custody of you. Well, she has physical custody
of me, but she gives like control over me over to the state. Okay. And so now where's your dad
during all this? You still seeing him or no? No, not really. Okay. Like once I started getting in
trouble and after I left, after I moved out from him, he just kind of like, he's your problem now.
I don't want to deal with it. And then we were, you know, we talked every now and again, but you
know, it just, it wasn't what ended up happening there is I had taken the, I'd taken a bus up to
Sacramento when he wasn't there. I didn't know he wasn't there. I was going up there to see some
chick and I go, I go to his house. He's not there. I jump over the fence because I know how to get
in because I was living there. The neighbor sees me calls him up, unbeknownst to me, my grandmother's
in the hospital dying in the Bay Area. He has to drive all the way up, come get me because, you
know, he was for whatever reason he did on our way back down, my grandmother dies. And so that was
a sore spot of contention with him because he blamed me for him, him not being there when his,
when his mother died, which was my grandmother. So, you know, there's all these little things that
like because of my decisions, they weren't like directly things I was trying to do, but things
that indirectly happened because of what I was doing. Does that make sense? Yeah, totally. And so
the meth starts or yeah, the, the crank starts, getting in a bunch of trouble,
incorrigible, all that stuff, did the 151, ended up, what's the 151? 151 days at the Boys Ranch.
Oh, okay. And so when I was there, my mom had got me out on a, on a temporary release thing to,
because it was like Thanksgiving. And so to go hang out with my family and be with them on
Thanksgiving, I was allowed to leave. When I was there, I had gone on the phone and called a girl
that I was dating before I went. And I was like, Hey, do you want to hang out and let's meet up and
we'll take, I'll take the Bart and I'll meet you. And so basically I was going to run and I did
and hung out with her for four days, ended up catching a, what was it, an escape charge. So I
added another year on to what I was facing and ended up getting out of that. I turned myself in,
ended up getting out of that. And one more time I got in trouble because I think I got a dirty
year. I was doing something that I wasn't supposed to be doing. Got in trouble. They gave me an option
to go to nine months in juvenile hall or six months in a rehab. And so I mean, obviously I was like,
well, six months and there's girls at the rehab, right? It's co-ed. And so I chose that. And little
did I know that in a rehab or a therapeutic community, it doesn't go by, by time, it goes by
progress. So that's six months turned into 16 months that I ended up there. And so this whole
time, all the way up to here, I'd been learning how to manipulate really well. And, you know, from
getting the people to beat somebody up for me, that was my first inkling of, oh, I have a little
bit of power. I know how to move pieces and manipulate people and get them to do the things
that I need them to do. Women, same thing. I was learning how to manipulate women from a really
young age as well. I mean, I was raised by women, but, you know, switching schools and going from,
you know, being the new kid at school all the time, I always got tons of attention from the females.
And so, you know, I would learn how to kind of use them to get what I needed out of them.
Why are you getting so much attention from the females? I guess I was a good looking kid.
Oh, really? Okay. I don't know. That's just, you know, that's what I noticed when I was younger.
Okay. And so it just continued when I felt like I had this, this like, I don't know if it was gift
or, or, you know, just this thing about me. And I was using it to my advantage. And so, you know,
that went on for a long time, including into, let's see, I would say
I got out of that rehab after 16 months, went to my brothers who, which I didn't really know was
turning into my sister now. So he was trans. Oh, and wow. Yeah, that was kind of strange. I went to
move with him and his girlfriend. He was dressing like a woman every day and he was saying it was
for a part in a movie because he was an actor. I guess I should be saying she now. She's an actor,
right? Or an actress. With a girlfriend? So he's still like girls? Yeah, it was, it was a strange,
it was a strange situation all the way around. No, I met people like that. Yeah. It was different
for me. Because this was somebody that I looked up to, I'd played ball with, I'd go and, you know,
we'd go out on trips and we'd do things. And so it was, it was just different, right? It was,
it was, I just didn't know how to take it. And so at one point we ended up getting in a fight and
I told her I was going to kill her and, you know, I got in some trouble previously to that.
Got in trouble as an adult now with the law. I had got a car, my mom cosigned for it.
Um, I was able to go hang out and do a bunch of stuff. I picked up some guys that I was hanging
out with. We stopped somewhere. I stay in the car. They go and beat somebody up with steel toe
boots and kicking somebody. We get pulled over as we're leaving. I'm the adult because I'm 18
and they're 17 and I catch the charge. So why were they beating people up? I don't know.
They were, I have no idea. To this day I have no idea why they beat that person up. I was just
hanging out and, you know, I didn't have anybody to hang out with and I was in a place, a newer
place. And you were smoking meth every day? No, no. So the meth, it was like 18 years of addiction,
but on and off. So sometimes I would be doing meth. Sometimes I wouldn't. And this was a period
where I'd gotten out of that rehab. And so for about two and a half years I'd stopped using
everything. And so when I'd gotten in trouble with the law, when I was 18, I was drinking.
So I'd started drinking again. And so that kind of like was, you know, why I was not
making good decisions, I guess you would say. And so yeah, anyways, ended up leaving there,
going back to my mom's. Then I went and moved to Sacramento with my buddy and our neighbors
downstairs did crank. So after two and a half years and not doing it, bam, here we go again.
What was it like the first time you tried meth? What made you want to try it?
All of my friends that I knew growing up, they were all older than me and they were doing it.
And they wouldn't let me do it. And so every time we would go and hang out, they would disappear
into a room, lock the door and they'd be either smoking it or doing lines and they would never
let me in because I was the youngest. And so I don't know if they didn't want me to be responsible
for letting me try it or whatever the reason was. But from that point on, it's like when somebody
tells you can't have something, now you want it, right? And so I knew that a lady down the street
for me, the reason why I know that is because my dad ended up marrying her sister when she divorced
my mom. And I knew that she had, she was like a stoner, right? And so I knew that I might be
able to find it there. And she was about 15 years older than me. So let's say I'm 15 and she's got
to be at least 30, 33. And I go and I start hanging out down there and sure enough, she lets me try
it for the first time. Wow. And what it was like was, it was like nothing that I'd ever done before,
right? What I didn't realize about it is that in looking back on it after I got out of prison
and all the other things that I did is that I was undiagnosed ADHD. And so it really allowed me,
when I would get high, it would allow me to super focus on things, projects, you know,
anything that I was trying to do. It was almost like when Bradley Cooper in Limitless would take
that pill. You remember that? Yeah. It was almost like that, except without all the,
all that, but it just really focused me. And so... But at 15, what were you focusing on at 15?
Just doing, doing anything that I could to get out of doing what I was supposed to be doing,
like going to school, doing other stuff. I don't know. It just growing weed, you know,
just every little project that I had when I was a kid, it just, I was super focused on. Yeah.
And it just, I mean, it wasn't as, as prevalent as when I got older, because the things that I
got focused on, you know, started escalating. Okay. You know, so, you know, let's just say,
I think I'm about 19 now, and I'm on the run again, doing, doing drugs, meet up with somebody,
stop. I stopped doing the crank, but then I start selling Coke, because I meet this guy.
And, you know, we, I meet him in a club and I got him out of some trouble because I had an
entourage of people with me and we're hanging out and he got in some funk with somebody and
I got my people to kind of assist him. And from that point on me and this dude became like best
friends. Like, you know, you ever, you ever have one, I guess you would call like a bromance.
Yeah. Like one of those guys that you just click with and, and like when you meet them,
you guys just are just inseparable. You're on the phone all the time. You're talking all the
time. You're just hanging out. Yeah, sure. So that was what it was like with this dude.
And he was a Coke dealer. He sold GHB, sold ecstasy, sold all that stuff. So I mean, that's
what I started doing. Okay. So I started selling drugs for this dude. And that's kind of where I
got my start into, you know, selling more quantities and doing bigger things. And
everything that I was selling at the time, I would be addicted to. So like I was high on your own
supply. Basically, I was a horrible drug dealer, to be honest with you. The only thing that that
you make a lot of money at least. No, I made enough money to get by and to pay the bills and
to party all the time. Okay. And it was really just a facade. You know, the only thing that kept
me from getting beat up is that my biggest clientele was in the strip clubs. And so I had a lot of,
a lot of strippers that were hanging out at the house, they would, you know, friends, you know,
I wasn't banging all of them. What were the strippers doing? What kind of drugs do they like?
They like Coke, they like GHB and they liked ecstasy. Okay. Yeah. So, and that's why I wouldn't
get beat up because if I owed a drug dealer money or one of my friends money or him money,
he was like, well, all right, because they don't all come out and hang out, you know,
because the girls would be around and they didn't want to blow that, right? Right. So I had a little
bit of an edge there. But yeah, I wasn't a very good drug dealer. I was a good drug doer. Yeah.
So yeah, I mean, just the whole story just continues and continues and continues and
continues. You know, if we want to fast forward a little bit to win, I have my first daughter.
I get, I get a stripper pregnant, which is my first daughter's mother.
At how old? How old were you when that happened? I was probably about 22. Okay. So I think it was
about, she was born in 2000. I'm 47. So yeah, I'm going to say it's probably like mid 20s.
Okay. And so I get in some funk with somebody and it was going to be one of these things where
the next time we see each other, one of us wasn't going to walk away and it probably was going to
be me because up to this point, like I'm a bigger dude, but nobody ever has really challenged me.
And so I usually get away with kind of, you know, flashing a little bit and people wouldn't
mess with me. This dude was completely different. And it was like, all right, well,
I know that if I don't leave town, I'm probably going to die, you know, just because of the,
this dude's really crazy. And I was crazy enough to murder you. Yeah. Yeah.
So I didn't want to stick around. Did you know he'd murdered people before?
Well, I knew that he was crazy enough and tried. Okay. And I had like, we had got into it and he
had came up to me driving. And why did you guys initially get into it?
We were doing, he was another, another method, right? Yeah. And we were working on a job together.
And it was a really, really weird story, but we got into it. We were working on a job together
as painters, right? He, I'd got him a job as a, the painting company that I was working in.
Well, painters. Yeah, right. Yeah. They're always smoking crack doing that. They're all
about the uppers. Yeah. They're all about something. Every one of them that I've ever
met has either been on some sort of drug and alcoholic or something. Oh yeah. And so this
dude was like really bottom of the barrel and he had almost killed somebody before and we got into
it on the job site. And when he was driving away, he had said something to me and I hit him
while he was going through the car as he was going, driving by and he didn't stop, but I'd left and
he came to my house, maybe an hour and a half later had a gun on him and was like trying to
get into the house. And I was like, Oh man. So basically he like scared the shit out of me.
And I was like, well, look, you're pregnant. I don't have a job anymore. Let's move to Vegas
because there's tons of strip clubs and you can get a job anywhere, which means I don't have to
get a job anywhere. I don't have to get a job. You can. And so we moved there and yeah, I mean,
just kind of like that was just my pattern. Like I would use people. People weren't,
they were assets. They were things that I would see as what can I get out of you?
You know what I mean? And when I, but you know, that was like a reaction that you just wanted
to get out of where you were. You didn't really, did you have any kind of plan when you got to
Vegas? Did you know what you wanted to do? No, I just wanted to get high. No, I wasn't really
getting high when I left there. So I mean, there's periods, like I said, there's periods of time
when I would get high and then there's periods I would stop. And so usually when things got,
we're getting bad or, or, you know, I was doing stuff like partying too much, not coming home
and doing all this stuff and kind of putting my own situation in jeopardy like, all right,
well, my girlfriend might kick me out or if I keep doing this, so I would toe the line just
enough to get her to, all right, well, I'll believe you now. I see that you're trying and,
you know, I would then at some point I would fall back around and do the same thing over again.
Does that make sense? Yeah. So it's just a long line of this. And when I went to Vegas,
I was doing well. We had our daughter, but I'd let my friend move up from Sacramento. And well,
actually, I found out that he was living there already and he was with another stripper that
it's a whole other story, but ended up moving him into my house because he wanted to get away from
her. Me and him start hanging out and just didn't really work out there because my, my girlfriend
was like me and him are partying all the time and she's pregnant about to have the kid. And I'm
nowhere to be found most of the time off doing whatever. I mean, even to the point when I had
my daughter, you remember Johnny Depp in that, in blow and how he was in the delivery room and
he wasn't really there. Well, I was like that on GHB when my daughter was born. Didn't he overdose
on Coke when he was in there? Well, I was on GHB when I was in there. And so nodding out just
could barely stand up. Luckily the neighbor that was, that took her to the hospital was there
because he's ended up being the one that cut the umbilical cord. No way. Yeah, because I couldn't
do it. So, I mean, I'm surprised he even let me in the room to be honest with you. That's wild.
Yeah. And so, I mean, just another example of, you know, all I care about is what I want and not
really the things that matter in life. Just because I, look, I was a latchkey kid from the,
you know, in the third grade. So, I mean, I never really had any supervision, never had consequences,
kind of, you know, lived my life the way that I wanted to all the way up to this point, you know,
using people along the way, having, you know, just craziness, man. Yeah. So what happened after
your daughter was born? What did you do? Did anything change? Did anything click? Not really.
I think we were, I was starting to get more aggressive in the relationship, like being more
abusive, verbally, mentally, emotionally. And like, I was never really a physically abusive guy,
but I would do everything short of hitting you because I knew I didn't want to go to jail.
But if I wanted you to, you to bend to my will or bend you to the way that I need you to be,
then I would start becoming more aggressive and, you know, until you submitted. And I got more
like that and she had had enough of it and was basically like, all right, well, that's it, we're
done. And the friend had already moved out and he got a two bedroom apartment because he knew that
this was going to happen at some point, right? He's like, I know you're going to need a place to
stay. So I'm just going to get a two bedroom apartment. And so I did a moving there. And while
me and my ex were trying to, or my first daughter's mom were trying to work things out.
Well, she was paying on the bills, right? Because she was stripping.
Yeah. I was working on and off. But I mean, I'm really, my whole thing I always tried to do was
get out of working, right? And I think Boziak said at the best, anything to get out of having a
regular job, right? Didn't matter what we were doing. You know, if I could, if I could finagle
a way to not have to go to work and get by and be able to do whatever I wanted, that worked for me.
And so she had, they were going to go back to California for Christmas. She had a pathfinder
and she asked me if I could take her to the, and drop her off at the airport in it. She didn't want
to pay for parking, which she probably should have after what happened. But anyways, she,
I drop her off. I end up going to the rum jungle on Christmas Eve by myself.
The rum jungle.
Yeah. I think it's a club, maybe at the Luxor or one of the, one of the other ones. I can't
remember the names of those places. So I went there, was doing some, some more GHB.
When I left, the last thing I remember is turning off Flamingo going south towards Boulder Highway.
And the next thing that happened is I hit a light pole. So I, basically I was driving blacked out
and I hit this light pole and any further to the left, I would have went straight into,
like if I went any further to the left or the right, I would have went straight into a liquor store.
Wow. What is GHB like? I've never, I've never tried it.
Um, it's hard to explain. It's almost like, it's almost like when you first do it, it's,
it's sort of like drinking, like maybe you've drank two beers, you take one, one cap full.
What I believe it was for to begin with was for guys that were taking steroids and body builders,
they would take that as a supplement as well. Cause your body naturally produces it
and it burns fat while you're sleeping.
Really? Yeah. So what, what could you compare it to?
I couldn't compare it to anything. It's not like any other drug. No, it's an upper downer with,
I mean, what the, how do you feel? So it starts out as a downer and like the more you do it,
so I built up a tolerance to it cause I would do it all the time, all the day, all day long.
Right. And so for me, it turned into an upper to a certain degree. So I would take a cap in the
morning on an empty stomach and, you know, an hour and a half later, I'm like wired,
you know, vacuuming the floors and, you know, doing whatever. And so it gives you a little bit
of energy, but then when you go past a certain point, it, it knocks you out. And so that's why
it was one of the date rape drugs, because when you would give it to somebody, if you give them
more than let's say a cap, let's say you gave them two caps or you threw it in their drink or
something, that would knock them out. God damn. Yeah. Did you ever do that? No. I had people that,
that tried to do it that were around me to other people. I caught somebody doing it
and ended up kicking them out of the house. But yeah, it was like those people gave it a bad name
because I mean, it's not, to me, it wasn't that bad. You know, if you just use it in the right way,
I didn't, I never used anything in the right way. You know, I abused everything that I touched
from people to drugs to anything that felt good. I overengaged in. So what ended up happening
from there is, and this is just kind of how bad I was. And I did this more than once when I was in
in California before I moved to Vegas, there was a point in time when I remember blacking out,
driving and missed my exit, woke up 10 exits down the road. Had no idea how I got there.
So, I mean, I'm having like risky behavior all the time. And what I came to find out later,
through just thinking about things and like, connecting dots and everything else like to
my past and why am I doing the things that I'm doing? I really believe that I was trying to kill
myself. You know, we I'd mentioned to you before, I'd had three overdoses up to this point.
You know, so I OD on on ecstasy and a bunch of other stuff once I overdosed on some some
meth by taking too much of it. What happens when you overdose on those drugs? So in this particular
instance, which is the one that I can actually remember the most, we were all partying on like a
on Halloween, I started out doing some coke and drinking. The night progressed, did some more coke,
did some GHB. Then I did a hit ecstasy. And then when we got to it up, when I got to the party,
or to the after party, a bottle of tequila went around, I took a couple slugs of that.
And then went to the bathroom and somebody gave me a like a a gel pill, right? It's like a like
a pill with powdered ecstasy and something called black licorice. Anyways, the girl that I was
hanging out with had said, well, you know what, you should do it as a suppository because it
hits you harder. So if you stuck it up your ass, Jesus Christ. And that's the last thing I remember.
Whoa. About five minutes later, lights were out. And from what I heard from everybody that was
left there when I woke up the next morning, is that I was foaming at the mouth and probably
should have been, you know, taken to the hospital at that point. But they just stuck me in a room
and put me to sleep. And like, I'm lucky I didn't I woke up. What was the drug again?
It was called black licorice. Black licorice. And it was like some powder. It was powdered ecstasy.
Okay, so MDMA was powdered and you would you would cap it up and gel caps.
Brutal, dude. Yeah. And immediately when I woke up,
I should have been pissed, right? When they told me the story. Yeah. Instead, I'm like,
all right, well, who's got a cap? Yeah, let's do some more. Let's keep going. So I mean,
just craziness like that, man. And how old were you then? I was probably my mid 20s.
You know, early, early to mid 20s. So the story when I wrecked that car,
all right, your girlfriend or your baby mama's pathfinder. Yep. So immediately nothing happens
to me. I pop out of it. I don't know how there's a 711 across the street. I get out of the car.
I walk across the street to the 711. I go buy a Gatorade. The the clerk, the clerk is looking at
me like she just seen a ghost. She's just like, I just, I just, I just, I just saw you wreck that
car. Yeah. Like, dude, you're walking like nothing happened. I get the Gatorade. I go back to the
car. Guess what I do? Another cap blackout again. When I wake up, I'm standing down the street
in front of a menu for a drive through that's not open. Just nodding back and forth
like this. I come to, I'm like, Oh my God, where am I at? Where am I at? Get my bearings,
look around the corner. They're loading up the pathfinder on a flatbed. I run over there really
quick. I'm like, Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, wait, that's why that's my car. Go in, grab the GHB,
take another cap, blackout again. And the next time I wake up, I'm in the in front of the porno
rack at the liquor store I almost ran into. They've called the police by now because I'm standing
there nodding back and forth and they come in. I come to and they lead me, they lead me into an
ambulance that's waiting for me. And they think that what's happened is I'm having brain, like I
have a brain trauma because of the accident. So this is just like the effects of being, you know,
they can't smell anything because GHB is undetectable. And so they and I just go along with
them. Yeah, okay, whatever, go in, take me to the emergency room, check in and walk out. And I get
a $90 ticket for the telephone pole or light pole. Wow. That's it. Oh, but but where would you do
through GHB? It was in the car. Yeah. They don't know anything about it. You want to take it with
you? How am I going to take it with me? It blacked out. And it was already gone with the flat bed.
Yeah, but you went back in there to get another cap right before they put it in the flat bed,
remember? Yeah, but I took the cap. It took a point. I don't know where it went.
It must have went, it stayed in the car. Okay, so you just left it in the car? Yeah. Okay, I don't
want it. Well, I don't want it. Yeah, just they were going to take it. I don't know. That's a good
question. You would think that you're like, Oh, wow, my car is going away. I'm going to want more
GHB in a couple of minutes. Maybe I should just take the whole bottle. Yeah, I don't know. I didn't.
So yeah, it, when it ended up happening from there is she had my rights terminated
for, for, you know, because I bet that it's cost her like 18 grand. It wasn't paid for,
she's letting insurance lapse. Oh, wow. And so that was the end of that. So any kind of reconciliation
or any sort of like, you know, we're working shit out, not no more. So she had my rights,
she had me petitioned to the courts to take my rights as a parent away from my daughter. Okay.
And it took about six months for that process to happen and for me to be served. And when I got
served, I was in jail for a DUI. So I was hanging out in another strip club called Cheetahs in
Vegas. Been there. I liked that. I liked that strip club. Yeah. I was drinking a whole bunch
and thought I was okay to drive. And when I left blacked out again, from the police report that
I read, they said that when they rolled up on the side of me that I was literally asleep with my
head and still driving. And so they hit the sirens and they said, I looked over and waved at them
and I pulled over because I mean, what are we going to do? There's no, I can't go anywhere. Right.
When they pulled me out, I could barely stand up. And so what happened next was, I guess they said
that I tried to headbutt the officer, but I couldn't stand up. So my head kept going back like this.
And so they beat the shit out of me right on the side of the road there. And when I got,
they knocked me out. And when I came back to, I was in front of the booking and they were
getting ready to pull me out. What do you keep saying came back to? Does that mean like coming?
Like I got knocked, they knocked me out. They literally knocked me out. They beat,
they beat me up so bad that I, like I knocked out. Okay. So came back to means like became
conscious again? Yeah. Okay. All right. Sorry. No, no, no worries. And so I was pissed. I knew
something had happened, right? Like, I felt like I was violated. I knew that I didn't wreck my vehicle
because I saw it perfectly there, what I remember. And when they brought me into the booking,
I was like, I rate man, I was taking off my shoes, throwing it at the, the booking people.
And I think I had my hand right here handcuffed. No, actually, they didn't even have me handcuffed
because I was pulling off my stuff. And I was throwing my stuff. An officer went by and I tried
to hit them and they like four of them jumped on me and we were in like a portable unit. So
it wasn't like a concrete floor. It had some give to it, but they slammed me and I landed on my head.
And the next time I woke up again, I was in the emergency room making sure that they didn't,
you know, do any serious damage to my, to my skull. Wow. Still talking shit. A lot of brain
damage you had up to that point. Yeah. Well, head trauma. Yeah. That's what I didn't realize too,
after talking to a bunch of people about my story and some other people that had some TBI's and
traumatic brain injuries. And I had one when I was a kid too. Oh, really? Yeah. So when I was a
kid, I lived on a steep hill and I made a ramp, right, to jump. And I was the bike that I was,
I had was one of the ones that didn't have freewheel. So the pedals kept going no matter what.
Yeah. And so I jumped this thing and the pedals keep going and boom. A fixed gear. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And hit my head, end up in the emergency room there. So that was the first one.
How old were you? I was probably about seven or eight. So yeah, there's a lot of, a lot of brain
trauma. Got knocked out a couple of times boxing as a kid had, you know, some Samoan friends. And
I don't know if you've ever met Samoans, but... I know a few. Yeah, they're huge. And so I was,
you know, play boxing and got knocked out a couple of times. Isn't the rock Samoan? I think he is.
Is he? Yeah, I'm pretty sure he is. Yeah, he's one of those. He's an islander of some sort.
You know, we used to say in prison when we see them. He's from Hawaii. Yeah. All they got to do
is stand next to the white pile and they grow. Yeah. They're just huge, man. Yeah. So where are
we at now? Brain trauma. They smashed your head on the floor of that portable cop station. Yeah.
And so when I wake up, I'm talking shit still, pissed, you know, that all this stuff is happening.
I'm still kind of drunk. And the cop that's sitting there, which I don't blame him for what he did,
because I was just being fun. I was just being an asshole. He walks up to me. I'm just,
you mother, this, this and that takes his, he takes his hand,
hits me hella hard right in the throat, right in the throat as I'm talking.
That's amazing. That's fucked up. So yeah, I mean, that's, that's just kind of life,
man. And that's what I was doing. And, you know, this, I'm still not in prison yet. Still haven't
been raided. You know, I do a geographical and I moved down to Florida after I get out of jail
for that, you know, go and do the DUI stuff that I need to do, take a job. I got, I got served the
papers, you know, to get my rights terminated. And I kind of abandoned my daughter. I was like,
she's better off without me. I'm going to get out of paying child support. So, you know, all right,
later. See ya. Try to act like it didn't bother me. When I moved to Phoenix to take a job down
there, I stayed drunk the whole time I was there, blew that opportunity off, came back to Vegas,
knew I moved in with some friends, but they were getting ready to move back to California. So like,
I knew that I didn't, I was running out of money, didn't have a job,
needed to make a move. And I was like, dude, what can I do? What can I do to make money? What do I
where can I go? And I'm like strip clubs. I think I'll be a bouncer to strip club. I used to do it
before. So that's exactly what I did. I went and got hired as a strip club, got a girl to want to
hang out and went and hung out with her one time. And when I showed up to her door, she opened it,
she said to come in, I came in and she's smoking a bowl of meth. And I hadn't been doing it for
about a year and a half to two years, right? I was, you know, I was drinking and doing all the
other things, but I hadn't touched, you know, meth again. I knew I shouldn't, like, it was crazy,
man. I was like really surreal, because I knew that I saw her doing it. And then in my head,
I'm thinking, walk away, walk away, don't go, don't go, don't go, you know, it's going to happen.
And as I'm saying that to myself, I'm walking right to her, I take it and I take a hit. And
that's it. From that point on, I start really selling drugs. I start
getting guys that slam dope to, like, steal shit for me. So basically, I'm getting them to,
I'm moving a lot more drugs now. I'm hooked up with some person that's, you know,
given me about an ounce or two at a time to get rid of.
Ounce of what?
Meth. Okay.
So crystal. Okay.
And so that's going all right. I'm doing it for about a year. In that process, I'm figuring out
how to do all kinds of stuff, because I'm not sleeping very much, you know, maybe every,
you know, staying awake for three days, figuring things out.
Did you ever, you never cooked it, right?
Okay. No. If I, if I would have known somebody that could teach me how, I probably would have.
Have you ever watched Breaking Bad?
Mm-hmm. I watched the whole series, well, at least the first six, six seasons on a, on a
four day weekend.
Oh, really?
Yeah. The whole thing.
Were you on meth when you were watching it?
No.
Oh, okay. That would have been, that would have been a fucking trip if you were.
Yeah. No, I felt like it after I finished watching it, because I literally had to stay
up damn near 24 hours, 48 hours to, to watch all of them.
Is it pretty accurate? Would you, would you say?
I would.
But with like the lifestyle?
Kind of.
Yeah.
Or the business part of it?
Yeah. Well, I can't tell you about the business part of it as being a successful drug dealer,
because I was never a successful drug dealer.
Yeah.
Not even when I was doing the stuff that I was doing, even as I had the enterprise,
you know, I was.
You would have been to a Jesse's to generate friends.
Probably.
That was like where you were?
Yeah. I would, I would have been Jesse.
Oh, you would have been Jesse.
But not cooking stuff, not doing any of the other things, right?
So what I would, what I always referred to myself was as the king of the dipshits,
because I was the one that always had, like I would hang out with the guys that were slamming dope,
because I'm not that bad, right? As long as I'm not slamming dope, I'm better than you,
even though I'm an addict too, right?
And slamming it, is it mainlining it?
Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Injecting it.
And so that's what I would always think of, right?
Like, well, I'm better than you, because I'm not doing that.
You're just smoking it.
I'm just smoking it, or I'm just doing a line, or, you know, I'm not slamming it.
What's the best way to take meth?
To not take it?
No, but if you are, I mean, if you're, what's the most effective way?
Like, what's the optimal?
It's different.
I mean, there were, like the one time that I OD'd on it, it was probably the,
the, it felt the best, but it probably was the closest that you can get to slamming it
without slamming it.
So what I would do is I would smoke it out of this thing, they call it a quag, right?
So it was like a bong for, for meth, and it would run through the water,
and I'd run ounces through there, and, and you'll take it and dump the water out,
and then put it in the freezer for maybe a rainy day, or if I'd, you know,
ran out or something.
And so one day I did like meth bong water.
Yeah.
And so one day popsicles out of it.
No, no.
It was just in there.
So I took, I took a couple scoops of ice slush, whatever.
It was like maybe about this much, and I drank it, and it was way too much.
Like a meth slurpee.
Yeah, yeah, dude, it was horrible.
Wow.
I mean, it felt really great until it didn't.
Literally like my, my, all my pores started coming out,
like started beating with sweat, and I'm just sitting there, and all of a sudden
I'm just like shaking like this from the inside out.
Whoa.
And I literally, I felt like I was gonna, I was gonna die.
And it, it lasted for about, I don't know, 30 minutes like that, and I couldn't move.
Just profusely sweating out.
And are you afraid you're gonna like die or have a heart attack or something?
Fuck yeah, I was afraid.
Jesus Christ.
But I was the only one there.
So there was nobody, nobody there with me.
And so, I mean, it was, I just had to ride it out.
And luckily I did, but yeah, that was, that was horrible.
Who, what was the guy doing in Breaking Bad?
I think his name was Tucker.
He was like out front in the front yard, digging holes with a shovel the whole time.
Remember?
He was like, lived at his dad's house and breaking bad.
And one of the characters, one of Jesse's friends, he was always out,
out front digging holes with a shovel.
Tucker.
I don't remember that part.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
I think, I want to say that was met too, but they were,
the dude was locked in there for like weeks at a time, just in one room.
Yeah, I remember, yeah, I remember that he had two of the, the two of his friends that,
you know, always were trying to get him to do.
Do bad shit.
Do bad shit or make dumb decisions and, but I don't remember that part.
But it doesn't surprise me.
And that's, that was the thing.
So like,
So if you wanted the best way besides mainlining it is to
just straight up drink it, drink water from a bong.
I would say if you're going to do it, like it's, it's completely different.
The best way obviously is mainlining it.
Yeah.
Um, you know, cause that hits you straight up.
And you know, a lot of the, the guys that like I was selling to that would do it.
I mean, they would do it right in front of me.
It was really hard to watch, especially when they're sitting there
digging cause they can't, they can't get a vein.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
It's pretty gross, man.
And finally they, they, they would hit it.
And you know, the look on their face, once they did it was like,
that looks like it feels really good.
Geez.
Except for that part, right?
That part, I could never do it.
And that's probably why I never did slam dope is because
I just couldn't get past the needle part.
And I don't like needles.
Yeah.
I'm right there with you.
I'm not a fan of needles.
Yeah.
That's a bad, bad stuff.
I'd be down to try the Slurpee though.
I don't know.
It seems to be better off to, I'm down to try anything once.
Yeah.
That's not, that's not a good one to try, but you know, teach their own.
Yeah.
So I mean, where do we end up living off?
I forgot.
Oh yeah.
You met the girl, you met the girl and then she, the stripper and she was smoking it
and then you started smoking it and then you started selling it by the ounce.
And how I got her to let me move in is because we, I'd met her doing that, right?
And we'd worked at the same club.
I went and moved to the shittiest, roach infested, fleabag, weekly rental, right?
And I invited her over because my goal was, was to get her to see how bad I had it.
That way she'd say, hey, come, come move with me.
That way I'm not manipulating you.
You wanted to make her feel sorry for you?
Yeah.
So she would say, come live with me.
And I wasn't, I wasn't, it wasn't my idea.
It was your idea.
So you can't say that I'm trying to use you.
Right.
Part of that manipulation.
Yeah, for sure.
And that's exactly what happened.
She, she went over there.
She saw the roaches running around and she's like, dude, you gotta, you gotta get out of
here.
Come move and live with me.
And I'm like, are you sure?
Are you sure you want to do that?
Knowing that that was exactly what the plan was to begin with.
Wow.
So I did a lot of that.
So you end up dating this chick?
I was with her for a long time.
Probably, I was with her until I, until I went to prison or at least until I got arrested.
How did you end up going to prison?
So like I said, I was doing all of this stuff, had these guys going, stealing these things for
me, providing them with the truck and all of the money and all the, you know, the gas and
everything to go to smashing grabs at businesses and then also burglaries and, and homes.
And they would come back.
They would bring me everything.
I'd fence it off and pay them in drugs.
And this went on for a little while.
The guy that I was dealing with that I didn't know at the time, he got busted and turned me,
turned his confidential informant onto me.
And I sold to that guy five times and I was sold a meth.
Yeah.
Sold him five ounces, five different times to an undercover cop that the guy that I was dealing
with for a year put onto me.
And so what ends up happening there is that I didn't realize that I was under surveillance
for a while.
They're watching me.
They're, they're seeing me getting in and out of my cars.
I'm, you know, going to make a run or doing whatever.
I always carried a gun with me.
So I would take it out of my back.
I'd put it in my under the seat.
Do the same thing when I get out.
So they know that I'm armed, right?
When they were breaking into houses for me, they were pulling, you know, firearms and all
kinds of stuff.
I had about five or six of those and filed, you know, the serial numbers were gone off of them.
And at one point I just felt like, like it was over, right?
Like trouble was around the corner.
Like my run was, was up.
I just had this feeling that something wasn't right.
Got rid of all the guns.
Just, I don't know why I did that, but I just, I felt like I needed to.
So I got rid of all of them except for one, about a week later.
It's about three o'clock in the morning.
I have tons of electronic shit, right?
Like all the stuff that they've stolen that I wasn't able to fence.
Like I've got stacks of, of like, you know, decks and amps and all kinds of stuff.
I have in the living room, there's a, I got like 36 fucking speakers hooked up
in the surround sound, right?
Bose system, all kinds of stuff.
It's about three o'clock in the morning.
This is all in that stripper's house?
Yeah.
Okay.
So it's like a townhouse.
Okay.
So one, two bedrooms.
One of the bedrooms I have put a deadbolt on.
Is it a pretty nice house?
Strippers make pretty good money in Vegas?
Some of them do.
Depends.
Depends on, on how broken they are.
Okay.
Because the broken ones usually have drug problems.
Not always, but a good portion of them do.
There are some that are-
You use any strippers that make a hundred thousand dollars a year?
Mm-hmm.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Ones that put themselves through college.
Uh, you know, they're, they're the hustlers that, you know, my,
I know that my daughter's mom at some point, she was making a thousand a night.
So.
Really?
Yeah.
Do you still talk to her?
No.
Not at all?
Not at all.
So, what are we at?
Electronics stacked up, you're living in Radio Shack and in a townhouse.
That's a good way to put it, man.
So yeah, there's all kinds of electronics and stuff in there.
There's a huge, uh, loud stereo.
It's three o'clock in the morning.
It's on.
It's pretty loud.
My girlfriend and her roommate are asleep in, in our room.
I'm in the next room working on a hundred dollar bill,
because I'm counterfeiting at this point, washing one dollar bills.
So basically taking one dollar bills, stripping all the ink off of them,
and then printing old one hundred, the old hundred on top of it.
How do you do that?
Very meticulously.
So basically you would strip all of the ink off of the, the original dollar bill.
How do you, how do you strip the ink off of dollar bill?
It was a certain degreaser that you used.
I can't remember what the name of it is.
I remember that that's what we were doing.
A degreaser.
Yeah, soaking it in there.
Okay.
And then just, just wash all the ink off of it, dry it flat, right?
Flat on a piece of, uh, so basically I'd squeegee it to like a flat piece of glass,
let it dry on there.
So it's, it's very flat.
I'd tape it to a, uh, really a piece of paper, run it through a printer,
and it would print the old hundred on it.
And so the old hundred didn't have the barcode on it.
Didn't have the stripe in there.
The little, the little strip that it has that people look at
didn't have the hologram either.
It was before that.
And so that's what I was doing.
And they were passing.
And you were just printing them out on a regular printer?
Mm-hmm.
Just a regular everyday printer.
An ink printer.
Right.
Like an inkjet or something.
Yeah.
So it didn't, it didn't have, it didn't have the ridges.
It didn't have the ridges.
Like you can scratch, you can scratch on them.
Like in, in the lapel, you know what I'm talking about?
Mm-hmm.
How there's those ridges that you can fill.
It didn't have that.
But I mean, most people didn't know that.
Because when they would go, when they would, they would market, it's a hundred.
Right.
What do these things look like after you stripped all,
after you degreased all the ink off of them?
They just look like blank white?
They look like the blank sort of, you know, with the under.
What wasn't green, it was just that and then all the red and blue fibers.
That's wild.
Yeah.
And how many of these things were, how many of these one dollar bills were you turning into
a hundred dollar bills?
I did probably, I would say, close about five or six thousand.
Okay.
I mean, because it was a meticulous process.
I mean, it wasn't fast.
It wasn't, and I would never be one of the ones to go and bust them, right?
I would have the guys that were working for me go and try and pass them.
What?
Oh, okay.
So the guys that you were, that were working for you, what were they buying with the drugs?
No, they would just go and buy like, because you didn't want to,
you didn't want to do it to the drug dealers.
No, why not?
Well, because they'd fuck you up.
Yeah, pretty much.
So what I would do is I'd send them out to like liquor stores or other places,
and they'd spend like maybe 40 bucks and get 60 back.
Sometimes it worked.
Sometimes it didn't.
You would look for places that had teenagers as cashiers because they're not going to know,
they're not going to pay attention, they're not going to care.
So, I mean, it was a meticulous process.
And I would do other stuff like,
all of the computer towers that were stolen,
I would swap those hard drives out, and I would go and buy with cash at Walmart,
the Seagate 80 gigs, those were just started to come out.
I'd buy those, take those out, clean the other hard drive, strip the hard drive,
like basically wipe it and replace that used one in the new one,
use a blow dryer to peel the label off of it,
re-shrink wrap it, and put the label back on.
Wow.
And then return it and get my cash back.
So, it's a lot of work.
A lot of fucking work.
For a little return, right?
But that's meth.
Like, what else am I doing?
I can't sleep.
Right.
Jesus Christ, man.
It was burning the candle at both ends.
Yeah, for sure.
So, I mean, that's just the kind of stuff that was going on at that point in time.
Like I said, now we get to the point where...
And this is what you got arrested for, eventually.
Yeah.
Well, I got arrested for the five-controlled buys.
That's what caused them...
Oh, yeah, the guy flipped on you and put an undercover dude.
Yeah.
And so, that's what caused them to do the initial raid.
And so, on that raid, that day, that evening, or that morning,
I hear a bunch of, like, boom, boom, boom, boom.
And my door is shut.
I got a friend over here.
I'm working on a $100 bill.
And I just, like, the TV's on hella loud.
So, I'm not sure what it is.
I don't hear any, like, get on the ground or anything.
Because they hear...
I think they focused all of the force into the living room,
because they heard...
That's where they thought I was.
Right.
There was double-paying glass windows,
because they lived next to Nellis Air Force Base.
I've tinted the inside of these windows.
So, one of the flashbangs that they shot in
made it through the first pane,
and then bounced back and blew up on them.
Oh, fuck.
Which then, in turn, caused the police dog that they had,
the drug sniffing dog, to bite the officer,
because he got scared and just bit the officer.
Oh, shit.
So, they're pissed when they get in to begin with, right?
They're like, oh, dude, this guy, we're gonna fuck this dude up.
I know that's what they're thinking.
I tell my friend to get out down the ground.
I open the door, and remember, I told you,
the hallway, at the end of it, to the right,
the door is over that way.
And in the front of this door is a huge big-screen projection TV,
which is like the six-feet-tall ones
that are about 3,000 pounds, real old ones.
The door doesn't open up all the way.
It catches on the edge of the big screen.
So, literally, they got their swat shields up,
and when I come around the corner,
I have this little derringer in my hand.
I look, and I see that there's a swat team,
and I ditch the gun behind the TV,
and I dive on the ground, put my hands behind my head.
If they would've seen me, they would've killed me with that gun.
So, the reason why I didn't get caught with that gun
is when they hog-tied me on the ground,
they zip-tied me, I mouthed and off to them,
and they picked me up, and two of them,
and they rammed my head into the TV,
and it pushes it up over the gun, and so they miss it.
Oh, my God.
That would've been an extra five years,
because it had the serial number five off of it.
They never found the drugs,
because I kept everything in a TV-VCR combo in the corner
that was hanging off the ceiling,
and so in where the VCR slot was loaded with cash and dope.
And they never found any of that?
The drug sniffing dog can't sniff up there.
Oh, shit.
So, he missed it.
Oh, smart.
Did you do that on purpose?
Nope.
I wish I was pre...
I did it on purpose, but no.
Lucky break.
Yeah, it was lucky.
So, I ended up going...
I took the fall for everybody.
I could prove that...
Now, this was planned.
I could prove that they didn't have anything to do with it,
because I kept a deadbolt on this door right here,
where I was doing all of my computer stuff,
and were like 14 grams of methware that they found.
And then I had another back room that I had another computer in,
where I was washing all the bills,
and so I had all the counterfeit money in there.
Maybe you can explain this to me.
I bought a house a couple years ago, and I renovated it,
and I know there was a bunch of drug addicts living there,
because when I...
In the sink, in the garage, there was just a bunch of needles.
There were syringes there.
There were syringes up in the attic we found,
and they were in some of the cabinets.
They were everywhere.
And on one of the bedrooms, there was deadbolts on the outside.
On the outside of the bedroom.
Like, they were locking somebody in the bedroom.
Well, the reason why I did it was because
I was the only one that had the keys.
So I knew that if I ever got raided,
that if I'm the only one that had keys and access to these rooms,
everybody else could claim ignorance.
But I didn't know what he was doing.
I didn't have any access to that.
I don't have keys to that.
And they literally went and checked everybody's keys
to make sure that nobody had access to it.
And so I took the fall for everything.
I mean, it was all mine anyways.
What's my girlfriend gonna do?
I'm gonna do what I want.
So I ended up getting booked into Clark County Detention Center,
and they released me three days later on my own recognizance.
So they went through all of that to just turn around
and let me out three days later,
because I didn't have a criminal history.
At that point, I was like, you know what?
Fuck this. Catch me if you can.
I'm going on the run.
And I did.
And so left that spot, had enough money and liquidated,
sold all the drugs that I needed to,
to get the money to move to a new spot,
reinforced that whole place with,
I put one of those front doors that are metal
that you attach to in front of your front door
so you can open it up.
Yeah.
So I put one of those at the entrance to the...
So it's kind of weird how I did it,
but it was just another layer that they'd have to get through
before they get to the next door, before they can get to me.
Don't some people put like burglar bars over their doors,
like actual bars, they can lock them?
I use one of those.
I just put that.
That was the cheapest way I could do it.
Put cameras up everywhere.
The place where I was living at,
I was on the top floor and I could see up this way
and I can see down that way.
So anybody that was coming, I could see them coming.
You could only get in two ways.
Okay.
And so that way I would have time the next time
that it was going to happen to either get rid of the drugs
or maybe jump out a window or whatever it is.
That lasted for about, I'd say, three months I was on the run.
In this process, I was starting to figure out
how to use credit card numbers and make IDs and checks.
And I was selling to this one girl who worked at a tour agency
and was getting me stacks of information like papers
that had customers information, their name, their address,
their credit card number, their CCV, their date of birth.
Everything except for their social security number.
But that wasn't hard to find once I had all this other information.
I can just do a background check on you
and cross-reference some things.
And I was able to find their social security numbers.
I had so much information that I was trying to figure out
how to do Western Union wire transfers for like that.
You can do $999 at that point in time.
That was around two, I would say 2003, 2004.
Figured it out, burned a bunch of information,
decided to go on the road and I rented a car,
was able to do identity theft and get a person's...
I stole someone's identity, got a credit card issued in their name to me,
got around all of the different stuff that they ask you.
You know how they do when you apply.
Sometimes you have to give them information.
They'll ask you questions about their family members
or this or that, which is all information that you can find in a background check.
Because that's what they use.
The credit card companies to find the questions to answer anyway, to ask anyways.
So I was able to get that.
I got a... I rented a Durango.
I put the whole operation in the back of the Durango.
My girlfriend was driving at the time
and I had six different cell phones that I was using
and I was switching the prefixes of the phone numbers
to the prefixes of the people that I was using their credit card.
So what Western Union was doing is...
So when I would online, I would do all this stuff to do a wire transfer.
I'd give them that phone number so they could contact me
and I would act as if it was like my work.
As we were on the road, they would call to verify that I did this
and my girlfriend would answer and say,
oh, this is so-and-so business.
How can I help you?
And they'd say, can I speak to you so-and-so?
Yeah, hold on one second.
They'd give the phone to me or if it was a woman who I was using,
I would answer as the business and hand her the phone as she was driving
and say, yes, I approved this and there's $999 waiting for me.
I would print out the ID that I needed for whoever it was
that I was having the money sent to in the car
and I did this all the way from Vegas to Amarillo, Texas
and I planned out all the Western Union stops on the way.
Got to Amarillo, ran out of math and couldn't find any more
and crashed for three days.
Even went to the strip clubs with my chick, couldn't find any more.
And so we were both forced to have to crash for three days,
went back, did the same thing at different places on the way back.
And so by the time we got there, it was about 40 grand in cash we had.
Our roommate at the time, which is the same girl that was with us
when we got raided.
And she was the one that was sleeping with my girlfriend in the bed.
Not sleeping with her, but they were doing that too.
But she kept calling.
And this chick never really cared about anything that we were doing, right?
But all of a sudden she kept calling one to know when we were going to be back.
And so I was like, dude, this is, no, there's something wrong here.
She never does and I'm just going to, I'm going to go and stash the money
before we go back to the pad.
So I stashed the cash, went to the house, we get there.
Her friend Steve is there and this other dude
and what ended up happening is Steve was a hang around for the Hells Angels.
And he's like one of these dudes that's trying to hang around.
He's trying to get into the club, right?
So he tells them that we're coming back with a bunch of drugs
and all kinds of stuff, trying to make his stripes with this dude.
We get there.
I don't think anything of it.
We start getting high because I hadn't been high in like three days now, three, four days.
Start getting high.
The dude pulls out a gun, puts it on his lap and I'm like,
dude, what are you doing?
Put that away.
He's like, you don't understand, get on the ground.
You're being taxed.
And I'm like, what?
All right.
He separates me and my girlfriend.
Our stories match and I'm thinking to myself, I'm like,
dude, I got to get this dude out of my house.
How can I fucking get this guy out of the house?
And I'm like, hey, you know what, dude?
You're kind of stupid for what you're doing.
I'm like, if come over here, come look at what I'm really doing.
And I started showing him some of the stuff that I was working on.
And I said, if you really want to make some money,
you'll not do what you're doing right now and join me.
And we can partner up and I'll show you how to make some real money.
And he bought it.
And so I sent him off with a Cannondale fucking mountain bike and some fireworks.
I got, where's that place called?
New Mexico on the way back.
And once I got rid of him, the only thing that was on my mind is I was going to kill this dude now.
And I went and bought a shotgun.
Like two days later, I worked, I made the ID and everything else I needed to.
Bought the shotgun at a big five, waited the time where I screwed up was as I was
cheating on my girlfriend this whole time.
There was this girl that I wanted to sleep with and we went and rented a hotel room.
And I think my, my, she knew what I was doing, but since I was supplying all the drugs and I was,
you know what I mean, the money and everything else, she was just kind of putting up with it.
Plus she was sleeping with my, with the girl, the roommate girl at the time too.
And really wasn't sweating it.
So she ends up, she bought, she pays for, I give her the cash for the hotel room.
She puts a hotel room in her name, the girl that I'm trying to sleep with.
And that first night, everything was good.
The next day I didn't get enough.
I want more.
And I put it in my name, well, not my name, but in the identity that I'm using in the credit card.
What I didn't realize is that when you rent, when you try to rent a weekly,
they send your information to Metro to make sure you're not a fugitive, right?
Well, the person's identity that I stole was a black dude.
So when it came, when it went to them, it was my picture, but when it popped up was a black dude.
And so I go and pick up the shotgun and I get the room, they said,
it's not going to be ready for like three hours.
It didn't put two and two together to realize that, well, it's 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock.
Why isn't a room ready?
They said, come back in three hours.
So I go pick up the gun, have it in a car or in a Durango.
And when I get there, they're waiting for me.
So divine intervention?
I don't know, you tell me.
That saved me from a murder.
And how long did you get sentenced to?
I did.
They were trying to hand me up for two to 15 years to begin with.
I caught the public defender working with the prosecutor because I knew that from-
Your public defender?
Working with the prosecutor?
Yeah.
So this is what I did.
I knew that there was a backlog for them to test the drugs.
And so in order for them to convict you in a trial, the drugs have to be tested,
the purity and all that other stuff.
I didn't waive my right to a speedy trial.
I said, no, I want to have a trial within 60 days.
Because I was banking on the fact that I would beat the time.
And about a week before I was supposed to go to trial, my public defender goes,
oh, well, you know, we're going to have to push this off for two weeks.
I'm going on vacation and all this other stuff.
And I protested it in the middle of courtroom.
I'm like, dude, I don't agree to this.
I said 60 days.
It's supposed to be 60 days.
And so right there, it was kind of like, hmm, something seems off.
When he was supposed to be on vacation, he called me from his office.
And I'm like, dude, I thought you're supposed to be on vacation.
Why did you push off my date?
And he's like, oh, well, I'm like, dude, you guys are trying to fucking string me up.
And so that's at the point where I call my mom and I'm like, hey, man, I'm going to,
they're trying to give me, I didn't mention the two years.
I said, they're trying to give me 15 years.
And so I could get her to come down and get an attorney for me.
Right.
And that's what happened.
She got an attorney for me.
She came down and I ended up getting 15 to 60 months.
In state prison.
But when I got busted,
How close were you with your mom up to this point?
Not, not really.
I mean, it got to a point where she had actually sent the cops and reported me as a missing person
because I just dropped off the face of the earth.
I didn't contact anybody.
I was just off in my, my own world, right.
And so when I would be using, I would, I would never like want to be around anybody that I knew.
Didn't want to be around family.
You know, my dad's really kind of out of the picture.
And my dad's a cop too.
So my whole dad's side of the family are law enforcement.
So, I mean, that didn't go really well.
You know, like during this whole time, like throughout your 20s,
when you're running through Vegas and, and doing all this stuff,
like were you calling your mom every month, every week?
Sometimes, yeah.
We were talking.
I mean, she's, we've always been close, you know,
but she's always been the person that's bailed me out.
Right.
Like up to this point, I mean, dude, I've ran the, the truck through the house,
you know, her truck through the house in our, I grew up in,
caused a bunch of damage there, sent me through an outward bound program that was like 15 grand.
The lawyer, I mean, I've, I've cost this woman probably in the upwards of about 50 to 60 grand.
So she came, where was she living when she came down to help you out?
She was living in California.
Okay.
She came down there and she hired a lawyer for you.
Yep.
And so that, they gave me 15 to 60 months.
And so I paroled out in 18 months, but what happened and how I got the federal charges
was that the guy that processed my place when I got raided showed up at the,
when I got arrested at the hotel room.
And so, because it was a fraud and forgery, right?
Right.
And so he showed up and he is like, I've been waiting for you to pop up.
He's like, you went on the run and thought you're going to be able to get away from this.
Oh, you're going to try to, you know, become somebody else or whatever it was.
He was like, so I'm going to tell you what, I'll do, I'll make a deal with you.
If you take me to your house, because I remember processing your last place
and you had a shitload of stuff.
I know you probably have that much or not even more at your new place
or wherever it is that you're doing your business now.
Yeah.
And he said, if you take me there and you give me everything,
I won't charge you with any of this.
And I'm like, well, that's a great deal.
Let's go, right?
Because all I want to do is go to sleep.
I've been up for, you know, a couple of days now and, and like I was
falling asleep in the 120 degree back of the cop car, right?
Literally, I just went to sleep.
When he got there, I was like, yeah, that's a deal.
Let's go, man.
Let's just get this over with.
I know I'm not going to leave.
I'm done.
Right.
Yeah.
And so I didn't realize he had a secret service guy doing a ride along with him
and the secret service guy picked up the gun charges
and there was a box in the back of that SUV that had 30 credit card numbers.
I didn't know.
So I got charged with access or false information for a firearm acquisition
and then also 30 counts of access device fraud,
which is having access to credit cards in our ears.
So I ended up getting indicted for that.
Was fighting my case there.
They released me back once I got indicted there.
Two charges, 18 months running concurrent.
They released me back to state custody, went and did my time in high desert
and then moved to Indian Springs in Nevada.
Then I ended up going to paroling out to do my federal time.
In 2006, I got out and that was really different.
How much time are you in total?
About three years.
Okay.
And then, but I mean, if you want to count all the times,
was it low security, medium security, high security?
It was medium.
It was medium.
I've never been to, I mean, I started out in a high at high desert
and the worst thing that I'd ever seen in prison,
like I don't have any of those crazy stories
where you hear people getting raped or stabbed or any of that stuff.
The worst thing I saw was a guy get doused in the face with a hot pot full of baby oil.
All across his face is bubbling up and all that stuff.
Jesus Christ.
But none of the other stuff.
And I was lucky.
I didn't have to go and do all that.
I didn't have any co-defendants in any of my stuff.
I mean, it was all me and they had me dead to rights anyways.
Right, right.
So I get out in 2006, move back to my mom's, go to halfway house.
I'm doing okay.
I stayed drunk probably for the first six months that I get out,
just decompressing from being in,
I mean, it's pretty traumatic when you go to prison, man.
I've been jumped a couple of times while I was there.
Got into it with some South Siders and ended up getting jumped there.
Was trying to, was going to run my whole bid by myself.
But then once that happened, I realized that you can't really just,
there's no way that you can't click up with people
because you need protection for whatever.
Maybe there is a way to do it.
I didn't do it that way.
And so, yeah, I mean, it just, it was kind of,
it was a, it was sort of a shock when I got out
because the, everything's segregated when you're in there.
Yeah.
I mean, even when you're in a medium, it's not as bad as the,
the politics aren't as bad as when you're in a USP,
but it's still there.
Like you can't eat after a black person.
You can't eat after a different race.
You can't like grab somebody's, like take a drink off of somebody's drink.
They don't really like you playing, you know,
games and stuff with them as well.
They just, they like you to be segregated.
And you start taking on the-
What do you say a day?
Who are you talking about?
Your car.
Like I was running with the whites.
So the whites weren't going to, you know,
didn't want you doing all that stuff.
Right.
And like, I'm not that kind of person, right?
I was a chameleon in high school.
I hung out with everybody.
But I had to start taking on that sort of
mentality while I was there.
So, you know, not liking black people,
not liking Mexicans,
not liking anything that was other than white.
And I started falling into that.
And when I got out,
it was hard to decompress from that,
you know, that kind of attitude
and trying to change that mindset.
And so I struggled with it for a little while.
And I started doing okay.
I got into my union.
I did some other jobs.
It was an apprentice in my union in 2008 hit.
And the financial crisis,
which, you know, everybody got laid off of work,
especially if you're in construction,
had a lot of time on my hands and ended up,
I'd gotten married in the process in between this
for all the wrong reasons.
She's tripper?
No.
She was somebody that was in recovery.
I met her in a AA meeting.
Oh, okay.
And so I went to AA
because I was doing, you know,
drinking daily up to like a fifth of alcohol a day.
And I had stopped one day.
I was just like, dude, you got to quit.
And I just quit cold turkey, went through the whole,
locked myself in my room,
went through the DTs, the shakes, the sweats,
all that stuff, got it out of my system,
went to AA, ended up me getting her and thinking to myself,
well, dude, I went to prison.
I didn't have anybody
because the chick that I took the case for
stole all my shit, my trucks,
all my stuff, sold it all and I didn't get anything,
didn't get all my money on my books or nothing.
My mom even went to the door to try to,
to, you know, get some of my shit back
and was unsuccessful.
So the last thing I was going to have do
that if I ever went back to jail,
that I'm not going to be stuck with nobody,
you know, to write to me or,
because I mean, that sucks when you're,
the one thing that guys like
or count on is getting mail, right?
And I never got hardly any mail.
And so I remember that feeling,
you know, sitting there waiting at,
you know, am I going to get something?
And not.
And so I'm like, well, if I get married to somebody,
if I ever go away, then I'll have somebody
that can write to me,
which is a stupid reason to get married, right?
Yeah.
The attitude is usually the opposite
from everyone else I've talked to.
They say when they go to prison,
the last thing you want to do
is have to deal with not being around your loved one
or not being around your girlfriend
or your spouse, whatever,
like being, being separated from them
is like the most difficult part
because you got to go through the depression,
the jealousy, like what are they doing out there?
Are they getting with anybody else?
Yeah.
Well, I didn't experience it.
Mine was the opposite.
Right.
So the person who I thought was supposed to be there
wasn't.
And the thing that I didn't like to do
is be on the phone.
So the phone, they call it a stress box, right?
Because you're, you're talking to people,
you're, you're hearing what's going on.
They got people in the background.
Like I told my mom, that's,
that's the person who had my back always.
And I would tell her, I'm like, look,
I'll call you once a week, but like,
don't bother coming to visit me.
Don't, you know, do any of that stuff
because you're just going to make it harder
for me to be here.
You know, and so that's kind of how I did mine.
Maybe I thought about it in the wrong way.
I don't know.
But that's kind of what I tied it to,
you know, getting married to this person
for not the right reasons.
And so.
But wait, you said you were,
you got married to her.
So you would have someone to be able to connect to
if you ever went back to prison.
But when you were in prison before that,
you didn't want to have any communication
with your mom at all because you didn't want
any communication with somebody outside of prison.
So you, you're basically saying you didn't
want those letters.
You didn't want those phone calls.
If I went back, my mom wasn't going to be the one
that was going to take care of me, right?
Because it's not going to do it again.
You failed again.
This is the last time I'm helping you.
Okay.
So I'm securing.
Okay.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah, I see what you're saying.
I'm securing.
Somebody that could actually take care of you
and bail you out next time that you got,
that you got fucked up.
Exactly.
Okay.
So like I said, all the wrong reasons
and more of that manipulation, right?
So it wasn't, it wasn't so much the emotional part of it.
Okay.
It was the financial, the, you know,
making sure that I got money and all that other stuff.
And so when the financial crisis hit
and I lost my job,
I had tons of time on my hand.
She was working and I started making my way back
to the people that I knew that were doing,
doing meth.
And so started again.
AWOL from my marriage, because I knew,
so I knew that like I was,
I had a bunch of money.
I was getting unemployment and I was going back
to work periodically because I'm in the union.
So they, you know, they'll, you get laid off,
you're on a list.
If your name comes up and you take a job.
So there were some jobs that were going on,
you know, every once in a while,
like, you know, one, two week, three week,
four week projects.
And so I was taking them,
but I was also getting unemployment still.
I didn't, I was double dipping.
So I had a bunch of money.
What I did was I knew that I want, I wasn't done.
I want, there was some stuff out there
that I knew that I could do,
which was carding, which was what Boziak did.
I knew that was possible and I wanted to do it.
But I knew how to do the credit card stuff,
not the credit card, but the check fraud.
And so I started buying with the money
that I was getting from unemployment.
I was buying printers.
I was buying check stocks or the check stock paper
that you use to write and make checks.
I was doing all this stuff preparing.
And when I got everything I needed,
I AWOL'd for my marriage and just disappeared.
Went to a place called Martinez,
I was hanging out with a bunch of CD under life people
and was hanging paper, which was making checks on IDs
and having them cash all of them.
Hooked up with my buddy that from Sacramento from before.
And I asked him, I'm like,
Hey man, this is kind of what I want to do.
I know that you can buy credit card information online.
I don't know where you can get it at,
but I know it's possible.
I know there's things out there that I want to do,
but I don't know how to do them.
Do you know somebody that's doing it?
Because he knew a lot of people are doing a lot of different things.
Found me somebody.
And this was the second dude that I clicked with like that.
Another bromance.
So this dude taught me everything.
He taught me how to get the cards from Russia using the dark web.
Taught me how to make your own.
So we started out with the blank plastic with the Magstripe.
And he had all of these different things that he had bought
that you could print different bank logos.
And just banks from anywhere you wanted from.
I can't remember what they were.
Some of them are from like from Brazil,
like Bank of Brazil or all these different things.
Just put them on there.
What were you doing with them?
Pressing cards out.
Were you selling them to somebody?
What were you doing?
We were spending money, spending buying shit.
Yeah, we were buying stuff.
So around that time is when Best Buy started doing the
purchase online and pick up in store.
And so what we were doing is,
and the only thing that they were requiring that you give them
to prove you were who you were,
was the last four digits of the credit card number.
So basically, you could just press out the card,
not have any intract information on there,
and just show them the card,
and you walk away with the items.
So we were buying MacBook Pros.
And so at that time, they were 22, 2400 bucks.
And they never go on sale.
And so when we would put them on Craigslist,
we could sell them for about two grand.
And they were going like this.
And so we were making a bunch of money that way.
We were getting some cards that had pin numbers on them
to like bank accounts.
So we would go and hit all,
like H Street had about 25 different ATMs on that street alone.
And so I just would literally go down from ATM to ATM
until I ran that card out and hit another card
and just got a shitload of cash that way.
Wow.
And that's what we were doing for a while.
We had two different offices.
We had one office where we were getting all the information
and we had all of our stuff to get information
and everything stored there.
We had another location where we were pressing out everything.
And so basically using the embosser, the tipper, and finishing it.
And we did it that way just in case one place went down,
we still had the other place.
And so I mean, it was pretty organized.
Most of it wasn't me.
It was the guy that taught me how to do all of it.
And we disbanded that probably after about three months.
And I had gotten up to this point.
I mean, I'm on federal supervised release while I'm doing all this.
Still towing the line there.
Haven't had to do too many UA's yet.
I ended up getting a dirty though.
And I got sentenced to a 90 day.
Getting a what?
A dirty UA.
Like a piss dirty.
Oh, OK.
For my probation office.
Oh, OK.
I end up getting a-
Smoking meth?
Yeah.
OK.
I get a violation.
They make me do a 90 day drug treatment center.
My P.L. was a woman.
And I went in there and started crying and was like,
Oh, I got a problem.
I don't know what to do.
All right.
I need help.
And so she's like,
All right, well, we'll send you to a treatment center.
I went to that treatment center.
I was a 90 day men's treatment center.
And probably within a month of being there,
my buddy, I'd contacted him and I said,
Hey, man, I need you to do me a favor.
I'm going to say I'm going to come work for you.
Right.
Because he had a business front.
And, you know, so I can get out of here every day.
And they'll allow me to have my truck.
So they bought it.
And every day I was leaving and I was going to do
doing fucking crime and staying high the whole time.
I carried a synthetic urine on me in case I had to come back
and they asked me to drop a UA.
I screwed up though.
Nine days before I was supposed to graduate from this,
so I almost did it, right?
Nine days before I was supposed to graduate from this thing,
I ended up,
did some GHB and nodded out and blacked out again driving.
Didn't wreck anything, but just I was supposed to be back
at like six or seven and it was like midnight.
Had to call in and say, Hey, man.
I made up some stupid ass story and they tested me as soon
as I got there.
They knew I was dirty, but I used the synthetic urine
and piss clean the very next day.
They said they kicked me out.
My PO, I had to call her up and I'm like, well, dude,
I didn't piss dirty.
Like they couldn't, they can't prove that.
And she's like, dude, you didn't successfully complete it.
So you're going to go back.
I'm going to send you to another place.
I'm going to violate you again and you're going to,
you're going to go to 90 days in a facility, not like a
contract facility for the feds.
Okay.
So basically like a county jail.
Okay.
And so when that was going to happen, it was like all these
things, man, just started came piling down on me and my buddy
took off.
He went to go live with his girlfriend.
I had to come running back to my wife like, oh, you know,
I messed up again.
Things are going to be different.
I promise, you know, all this stuff.
And, you know, I'm kind of being sort of, you know, physically,
not physically, but mentally, emotionally and abusive in
that relationship as well.
She doesn't buy it.
And the point when I decided where I'm going to change
everything was on the side of a highway.
I was on a high speed chase with her.
We run into traffic.
I'm chasing her down because she's not buying my bullshit.
And I'm trying to convince her that, you know, or bend her to
my will.
Like I did everybody else.
She's in her car and you're in another car chasing her.
Yeah.
Chasing her down.
We hit traffic.
She pulls over.
I pull over and I'm like trying to convince her on the
side of the road.
There's a bunch of cars going by all of a sudden.
Oh my God, dude.
It was a mess, man.
Were you on meth?
Well, yeah.
Jesus Christ.
So what ends up happening, man, is I fucking fall apart.
I'm bawling all my knees, just fucking crying uncontrollably.
And there's people honking, going by.
And like the most surreal shit happened.
I'm like, I feel like I'm floating above myself, looking at
myself, going, dude, you're just a pathetic fuck.
You know, look at you.
You're sitting here crying like a little bitch because your
life is the way that it is.
And what are you going to do?
And from that point on, like I said, I knew I was going to a
county, county jail that I'd never been to.
I didn't want to be kicking drugs while I went there.
And so I stopped doing it before I went in for about, like about a
month, six weeks before, stopped doing the meth, stopped
smoking cigarettes, went there, got out after the 90 days.
My, my ex-wife now, well, I mean, she's still my wife then, but
she takes me in, but she knows that she doesn't, she doesn't
want nothing to do with me.
She just does it out of pity.
But I, I don't go back to it.
So I start going to AA, I start playing adult slow pitch
softball, get away from the group that I was, that I was
hanging with, right?
Manage to not fuck up my, my chance in the union.
So I'm still have my apprenticeship that I can go
back to start working, not doing drugs, not doing any of that
stuff.
Playing softball was kind of a trip.
I didn't like the league I was playing in.
So I decided to start my own.
And I did everything to start it.
Did all the stuff, got the insurances, the teams, all this
stuff that I did together, it took a lot of planning.
It took a lot of, you know, thinking about how to execute it.
You know, I had a goal and I achieved it.
And what happened was, I realized that that was the way
that you're supposed to build self-esteem and confidence
is by having a goal, achieving it, getting that good feeling
from it, and then leveling up and going, well, if I can do
that, then let me try this.
And if I can do this, let me try that.
And I just kept leveling up, leveling up, got into the
rowing team on my union, did that for like five years,
became a sergeant at arms for my union.
So I really got involved in, in other things that kept me
away from, you know, the people and the places and all the
other shit.
Became a trustee for my union for two years, then I was on
the executive board for two years.
In 2019, I ran for a business agent position and lost.
The thing that I didn't realize and that I do now, and
that this is really what I advocate for, is I'm still a
toxic person.
None of the things that I'd done and all of the like inline
things subconsciously that I learned and all the habits and
the bad habits and the bad behaviors and everything that
I'd learned up to this point, those were all still there.
They didn't go anywhere.
They're just, just because I'm not on the drugs, doesn't
mean that those things went anywhere.
Have you ever heard of the dry drunk?
No, it's the dry drunk.
So it's the guy that stops drinking but still an asshole.
Still an abusive person, still the same guy that has the
problem, but it's just not using the substances to subdue it.
Okay.
And so I start, what I start doing then is when I'm at work, I
start listening to podcasts.
And this is the part where I told you about where I started
listening to Joe Rogan and I was listening to him from
like 10 to 14 hours a day in my earbuds.
And I'm following him.
I'm following people like Jordan Peterson, Sam Harris,
Lex Friedman, like all these people that have great ideas.
And, you know, their, their philosophies and their
perspectives are like pretty spot on, man.
And I'm like buying into it.
And little did I know that my mindset started changing
as I'm listening to this content all the time.
I start taking on their ideas and their, you know,
sort of philosophies and, you know, their thought processes.
And I decide that I want to start a podcast because Joe Rogan's
always going, Hey, you should start a podcast to everybody
that, that he talks to you on his podcast, right?
Well, I really thought he was talking to me because I thought
that we were friends, right?
I've been listening to this dude for so long that like, Oh man,
this is, you know, he's like my buddy.
And so I'm like, yeah, I should start a podcast too.
And so I did.
And what happened after that was pretty amazing.
As I'm the podcast I started, I called it nowhere to go,
but up and I wanted to tell stories of other people that
were like me that had been through things like myself,
bottoms and life struggles and kind of how they got through it,
right?
Yeah.
And as I'm listening to their stories and I'm relating to
where they're at and I'm talking about it, I'm healing at the
same time.
So it's sort of like therapeutic for me.
And I'm using the podcast to leverage guests to help me go
through some of the things that I'm, I'm struggling with,
like from, you know, self sabotage to anger to, you know,
all the things that are still kind of prevalent in my life.
The one thing that I missed on this is that while I was playing
softball, I ended up in an opiate addiction.
So I got hooked on painkillers for seven years.
Geez.
But because I got an injury playing softball, right?
Yeah.
And so in my, and I told the story earlier today, but in my
medical record, it says I'm an addict and for them to get
around giving me pain pills, they made me sign something
to say that I won't come back and sue them for giving me these
pills, right?
So I take those and keep giving them to you.
Yeah.
And so I'm taking these, dude, and I'm like, I turned into a full
of lunatic again.
I'm buying $500 a month and extra pills.
I'm like, you know, everything's revolving around these pills,
but it's not to the point where it's affecting a whole lot of
my life.
I'm still able to level up and do the things that I'm doing
versus meth that every time I tried to do it.
So you're functioning.
You're playing softball.
You started a podcast and you're, what kind of pills you taking?
Vicodin?
Vicodin.
And when I, when I finally ended it was Percocet 10s.
And so I was doing like 120 a month.
And then, you know, I buy another extra 100.
So sometimes it was 200.
It wasn't like full blown.
Like some people I've talked to would have done like they were
doing 20 or 30 pills a day.
I was at about 10.
And so, but I mean, it was just my whole,
like everything revolved around these, you know, like even from the
point where I would, you know, would sort of start running out,
take too much, couldn't find any more and would start to withdraw.
And, you know, all of that stuff that goes along with it, you know,
from trying to wean myself down, it was just a mess.
And so that's going on.
I'm still doing that.
The podcast, I wanted to start that.
Oh yeah.
I haven't started your podcast at this point.
Well, I'd skipped a little bit forward.
Okay.
All right.
So before I started the podcast was, I knew that if I was going to be,
because, you know, part of what I wanted to talk about,
I wanted to be transparent about who I was and what I was struggling with.
And I wanted to be as authentic as I could be.
I couldn't do that if I was still taking pills, right?
Right.
And so I stopped.
And how I stopped was, is I weaned myself off.
So I was taking 10 a day.
I went to five a day to half of that, to half of that.
And until I got to about quarter pill, and then I started using Edible Marijuana
to kind of lessen the effects of the withdrawal symptoms.
And so that worked.
Did it?
Yeah, it did.
And I still do it today.
I use it as a microdose THC daily.
Really?
Microdose THC.
How much is a microdose?
Five milligrams.
Okay.
So you take it in the morning?
With my coffee.
Jesus Christ.
It's not enough to get you high, but it's enough to...
Five milligrams gets me high as fuck.
No way.
Oh yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
I'm a lightweight man.
Yeah.
So I mean, I've built up a tolerance.
So five milligrams doesn't do a whole lot for me.
Ten milligrams and I meet the devil.
I see demons.
On Edibles?
Yeah.
Wow.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Super lightweight.
Well, then you know that that's no fun.
No, it's not.
So I mean, that's what I had to learn too.
Yeah.
And I make all my own Edibles.
And so there'd be sometimes when I would make chocolate,
and this piece had a little more than it should,
and I'd get to that point where I felt like I was going to die.
Like, oh my God, oh my God.
Yeah.
I'm dying, right?
That's not fun.
It's the worst.
But if you can get it to the point where you don't get to that,
you're not high, but you're just before that.
To me, it's almost like taking what people would take Zola for, right?
It helps me to focus a little bit because I am ADHD.
And so it calms me down.
It makes me focus a little bit.
I still go off.
It's not 100%, but it's a lot better than it was.
Were we good?
Yeah, yeah.
OK.
So yeah, what ended up happening?
And then I had a daughter too.
My daughter that I have now.
Another daughter.
Another daughter.
Yeah.
And she was, she's almost four.
And that's where the change really happened from me wanting to become,
like stop being this abusive person.
And it was all because of her.
And my ex, me and her were super toxic together.
And what ended up happening to change that was we were, I was in a rage
and we were fighting about something.
My daughter was behind me.
I noticed her.
I'm still yelling and she's gone.
I stop what I'm doing.
It just like snaps me out of it.
And I go and I look for her.
And she's in the furthest part of the house.
Curled up in a ball, crying, shaking, scared.
And how old was she at the time?
She was probably about two.
And so the only thing that could go through my head at the time is like,
I wonder if that was me.
Like when my parents were fighting and when I was going through that,
I wonder if that was me doing the exact same thing.
That was an eye opener.
A lot because I didn't want her growing up.
Thinking that this was normal, right?
That, oh, well, if she ever ends up in this situation 20 years down the road
where she's got somebody who's being abusive to her.
And she just goes, well, that's normal.
My parents used to do that all the time because it's not normal.
People shouldn't be treating other people that way,
especially somebody who you claim to love, right?
And so it happened one more time and we were, we were already split up,
but we were trying to take her to see Santa together to just kind of like,
I don't know, like some sort of normalcy.
And we were going at it in the front and she's in the back seat
and out of nowhere, she just goes, stop.
She's only two, two and a half years old, man.
And so that was kind of the straw that broke the camel's back for me.
I started coming out in my podcast and talking about being an abusive person,
kind of like, I don't know, I wasn't hiding from it anymore.
And what I noticed that was happening was,
is the more that I talked about it, the less the power it had over me.
And the more transparent I was being about it,
the more people were reaching out to me going, dude, that's,
I deal with that too, you know?
And so I just, I was reaching all kinds of different people,
you know, from women that were, that was happening to them and, you know,
or had happened to them, to dudes that were, you know, struggling with that themselves.
Yeah.
And so at that point it was just like, well, this is going to be my mission now.
Have you heard of Soft White Underbelly?
I have.
You watch his videos?
I've watched a couple of them.
Yeah, that guy is making some pretty amazing content.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All those people he interviews, all the hookers, the pimps, the drug addicts,
the homeless people, the one common denominator with all those crazy fucked up people is
fucked up parents and really bad parenting.
Well, I mean, the number one, the gateway drug is trauma, all right?
And not necessarily for everybody, but at least for my population of people that have been
incarcerated and, you know, gone through something in their childhood, it's trauma.
And the number one public safety issue should be untreated trauma.
Because look at, just look at the people that he deals with, right?
That's untreated trauma.
And it rears its head in all kinds of different ways from unwanted pregnancies to a drug addiction,
to domestic abuses, to all of these different things.
If that got dealt with, what it should be dealt with is a mental health issue, which what it is,
we would have a whole lot better of a situation instead of using this punitive model.
And I've heard you talk in some of your shows about, you know, sort of,
you know, how everything kind of is as far as society right now and how systemic stuff.
And, you know, we actually shared a guest that was on my show that's been on your show,
Patrick Lavelle from the con.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Cool.
Yeah.
He's a great, great documentary.
Yeah.
Yeah, that dude's super smart.
Yeah.
He makes a lot of cool stuff.
He sure does.
I think he would be good to talk to Matt Cox.
I think that would be a good introduction for them.
Yeah, they're both definitely in the same world.
They both, that guy spent a lot of time studying that whole financial crisis and all the banks.
What's that movie?
What's that famous movie about the 2008 financial crisis?
About the short, the big short?
The big short, yeah.
That was a good fucking movie.
That was a good movie, but the con covered everything that it left out.
Yeah, but the con, I mean, it's a very, it's a, how long is that thing that,
how long is the con?
It was like a three hour documentary.
Not six.
It was sick.
And it was multiple episodes, right?
Five.
Yeah.
I watched all six, no, it was five episodes.
I watched all five episodes back to back six hours worth.
Because I think it was either five or six, one or two.
Because you lived through that time, you really relate to a lot of that stuff.
Yeah.
And then I watched it for another, I watched it two more times because you got to screen it,
you got three viewings of it.
And so I watched 18 hours of this thing.
God damn.
Well, because I was trying, because I was going to have them on the show, right?
And that was the whole reason why they let me screen it so I could bring them on the show.
And I was looking for inconsistencies.
I was looking for something that I could like, you know, pick apart on.
And I couldn't.
Really?
Yeah, I couldn't.
There was nothing, man.
I mean, he put it in such layman terms to where like you have no, you could be the dumbest person
and still understand what was going on.
Right.
And it was, it was an amazing documentary to me.
I started plugging that dude's shit and all my, and you know, just because I was like super stoked.
And then I had his other producer on and then another one of their producers on at the same time.
So yeah, it was, it was pretty cool.
That's awesome, man.
And I've hooked him up with Patrick with another woman that I had on my show who was a,
so she got put in prison for three years and she's a, she has a PhD.
She's a black woman.
And she was calling out the corruptions in Baltimore, Maryland,
where they were doing illegal foreclosures in 2009.
And they were trying to get her to shut up.
She was on the NAACP, Baltimore chapter.
I mean, this person was like a legit community member in the black community.
Right.
Somebody prominent in Maryland asked her to stop saying that there were illegal foreclosures
and kind of like, Hey, shut up, stop saying this.
Prominent? Somebody prominent?
Yeah.
Like who?
I don't know.
It's in her book.
Okay.
She wouldn't tell me because she didn't want to, she wanted, she didn't tell me because she wanted,
didn't want to.
Spoiler.
Spoiler, yeah.
So what ended up happening was, is she got wrapped up in an indictment
with some people that she had done business with, but I mean, she was doing credit restoration.
So somebody, you know what that is, right?
No.
Okay. So credit restoration, like let's say you have, you need a 700 credit score.
You've only got 600.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So in order to get that loan, you need to satisfy some of these debts.
And so she would just kind of figure all that stuff out and work it out for you to where you
were able to do that.
And she had her own business doing it.
And so there were, I guess the feds found somebody that she was, had worked with where
her name was in and they wrapped her up in this indictment.
And she ended up having to do three years in federal prison.
So basically they shut her up and she's been to the Supreme court.
She's going back again for the second time.
She just started a nonprofit.
I talked to her yesterday.
She started a nonprofit and she's got Judge Joe Brown advocating for her nonprofit.
So I mean, she's not some bullshit person, right?
And so what happened to her was sort of the backside of what Patrick Lavelle was covering,
right?
So the big short tells you about the short.
He covers, you know, the mechanisms by which they were using the appraisal companies and
all these other different things that they own themselves and how Wall Street was
incentivizing by packaging up all these mortgage backed securities, but there were
bad securities, bad loans.
And so that's what he was covering.
And she was the fall guy that they were trying to blame this shit on.
And so I hooked her up with him and I think because he's doing a sequel to his, to that.
Okay.
And so she's probably going to have a part in that.
Oh, cool.
Did the con have a good response?
Did it have a positive response?
Where did it release that?
They released it right in the middle of the pandemic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was right around, I think you had him on in November.
And I had him on probably, I mean, did you get reached out to somebody?
I don't remember.
It was so long ago.
I do so many of these things.
I barely remember anything.
I barely remember some of the guests.
I know.
Do you feel bad though?
When you, when like somebody asks you about something and you're like, oh, fuck.
I don't know.
Yeah.
No, I just feel stupid.
It's hard to retain all the stuff I talk about.
Yeah.
You, how many episodes do you have?
On audio, there's probably 120.
Okay.
We're around the same.
Okay.
I just released.
I don't do that many.
Yeah.
I just released 128.
Wow.
And I've got about 50 in the queue.
It's a lot of work, huh?
Is this all you do?
Well, yeah.
Well, because I was on temporary disability because I had some repetitive motion stuff
and I was able to get on right before the lockdown.
Oh, cool.
And so I've been on for a year.
I got released back to work on the 29th, went jet skiing on my skis on the 19th,
broke my fucking two toes and was supposed to go back to work on May 1st.
And so that's going to get pushed back.
But yeah, but the whole time I was doing that, I was, I've done a bunch of stuff with the podcast.
I was trying to do everything I could to pivot out of it, learned everything on my own,
been doing it for about two years, can produce, can edit, can do all of the stuff.
And so I've been trying to like move myself into that direction, right?
To get out of doing construction because it's not really,
the one thing that I realized from the pandemic was I was willing to sacrifice the time with my
kid to chase this career and being a business agent and all this other stuff, right?
When the pandemic hit and I was able to co-parent with my daughter and have her more time,
I realized that I need to be with her.
If I'm going to raise her the right way, then I need to be around and not sacrifice that time.
So now that put me in a different direction.
It's like, all right, well, now I don't, I'll do this over here if I have to,
but I need to try desperately to get out of it.
And, you know, whether it's speaking, whether it's book, you know,
all the different things that I'm trying to do, like I'm just about ready to turn that corner.
Like I could see it, like I could, oh, it's just right over there, right?
But it's just not there yet.
Yeah, it's definitely a maturity thing.
I'm the same way if I'm not doing this, I'm with my, I'm with my son all the time.
If I'm not, it's either that or this, it's, that's my life.
My life's changed so much as I had a kid.
Yeah.
But, um.
I like it.
Love it.
How old are your sons?
The best.
Two.
Two?
Yeah.
Ah, those are, those are good years.
These ones right here are good years.
Yeah, it's definitely fun.
You can definitely, you can definitely note, you know,
see how you mold them and shape their personalities and, you know,
their values and all that stuff, like right around this age.
Our mind is just so fucking plastic.
Everything's so new and, you know, it's wild.
Yeah.
Well, what happened?
Oh, and so one thing that I forgot to mention.
So remember the daughter that I gave up on?
Yeah.
So about two months ago, she reached out to me and wanted to start a relationship
and started to get to know me again.
Oh, that's cool, man.
Yeah.
And.
How old is she now?
She's 21.
Okay.
She lives in Vegas.
She was funny.
So the story on that one is
when she turned 18, my grandparents had died prior to that,
left her about 20 grand and she came up with her mom.
Should she buy Bitcoin with it?
No.
Oh, okay.
Darn it.
I hear you talking about Bitcoin all the time, but there's some different,
I don't know, man.
I don't know how I feel about crypto.
Yeah.
I don't know enough about it.
And like when people try to talk to me about it, I'm just like,
dude, I have no idea.
Just stop.
Because I don't want to, I don't want to know what I'm missing out on.
So anyways, her mom, I guess, or her dad stole that, or her stepdad stole that money from her.
And so she called me up and was like, hey, man, I don't talk to my mom anymore.
And, you know, I need some help financially.
And, you know, I was like, kind of, I don't know.
It's just kind of weird, right?
You know, because I'm always suspect of everything considering the life that I've been through.
And her mom's pretty shady too.
At least she was when I knew her.
But yeah, we're, she worked it out.
You know, I've loaned her some money and she's paid it back.
So I mean, she's, we're just feeling each other out.
We haven't met each other yet.
We're texting right now.
We're not talking on the phone yet either.
I'm just kind of letting her do her thing.
Like when you're ready, I'm here.
Don't, don't worry about it.
So it's just, it's kind of, it's kind of strange, but it's kind of cool at the same time.
But having my daughter really showed me how important that relationship between father and
daughter is by going through it with my own and in realizing what she must have missed
by not having me around.
And so it's almost like I'm, I'm trying to, poor kid, like she's having to,
she's having to deal with me overcompensating for the mistakes I made with this one,
trying not to make them with this one.
Right, right.
You know.
Yeah. Well, they always say the daughters are the ones that grow up to take care of their
dads, not the sons.
That's at least what I've heard, but who knows.
Yeah, I don't know.
Well, dude, thanks for coming down and doing this.
I appreciate you being here, man.
Yeah, thanks.
Traveling a long way.
You had a fascinating fucking story.
Well, thank you for letting me tell it.
And you know, it's a privilege and an honor to be on your show.
And yeah, dude, I love watching it.
I'm a fan also.
Where can everyone find your podcast?
The best way to find it right now is I have a website in the works.
It's all getting taken care of.
But the best way to get ahold of my podcast and anything that I'm doing and to support
the show, social media, all that stuff is on my link tree, which is linktr.ee forward slash
nowhere to go but up.
And otherwise, just go nowhere to go but a podcast or Sean Dustin on Google.
And I'm the first thing that pops up.
Sweet man.
Thanks, bro.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you.
