Hello, world!
On number 58 of the Concrete podcast, our guest is Lincoln O'Berry.
Lincoln is a filmmaker and activist who, like his father, Rick, has dedicated his life to
ending the captivity and slaughter of wild dolphins.
Lincoln has been traveling to countries all over the world, releasing captive dolphins
since he was 6 years old, including places like Taiji, Japan, which happens to be the
birthplace of Japanese whaling.
In fact, in 2009, Lincoln and Rick created a documentary called The Cove, which won the
2010 Oscar for Best Documentary Feature.
The Cove is a call to action to halt mass dolphin kills, change Japanese fishing practices,
and educate the public of the risks of mercury poisoning in dolphin and whale meat.
Lincoln also directed and executive produced the award-winning Animal Planet series Blood
Dolphins, which documents the lucrative captive dolphin trade in the Solomon Islands.
This podcast really gives a gripping perspective on one of the most brutal and inhumane practices
that is still happening in our world today.
So without further ado, please enjoy this episode with Lincoln O'Berry.
So thanks again for doing this, Lincoln.
I'm glad to do it.
Just give everyone out there who may not know just a brief background on who you are.
My name is Lincoln O'Berry, and pretty much my whole life, I've worked with my dad.
We have an organization called Dolphin Project.
And basically our mandate is for the welfare and protection of dolphins worldwide.
And we primarily deal with dolphins with the captivity issue and also dolphins that are
being slaughtered in that issue.
So how did you get, I mean, obviously your dad is like a super famous figure in this
world and you guys have been a part of movies like The Cove.
How did he bring you into this whole world?
I just got brought into it because it was, you know, in the house when the phone rang,
it was usually somebody calling for the dolphin project.
And so I just, you know, as a little kid, just got you stands in the phone like dolphin
projects.
And it was just what I knew, like, you know, we had, like when I was a little kid, we had
a facility with dolphins when I was like, you know, a baby.
So I grew up just having dolphins right there, basically at the house and stuff.
You know, he, for those who don't know how he got his star, Rick O'Berry, my dad, he
was initially the trainer at the Miami Sea Aquarium, which at the time was like the second
or third dolphinarium in the entire country.
And it was located in Miami.
And this was very early 1960s.
And basically when he got out of the Navy, he got a job at Sea Aquarium.
I think his first job was working on their collection boat.
And that was the boat that would go out and get all the animals that would go to the reef
and they'd get fish and they'd get turtles and they'd catch dolphins as well.
And a lot of them were caught here in Miami, the original dolphins at the Sea Aquarium.
And then a flipper came along and just to a chance meeting one day at the Sea Aquarium,
my dad met Rico Browning, who was the director and kind of creator of flipper.
And at that time they were just shooting the initial pilot, which was actually a movie.
And Rico was the trainer on the movie.
And then it was very popular and got picked up as a TV show.
And so they decided to use the back lot of Sea Aquarium to do the series.
And my dad had met Rico.
And so my dad became the head trainer.
Rico wanted to be the director.
And so he directed all the episodes of my dad was the trainer.
And so they actually went and caught five dolphins that were going to play flipper
because you have to have multiple dolphins.
In case one doesn't want to work or some or better at some tricks than others.
Yeah.
So my dad helped a year or two before the show even started shooting,
to help catch the dolphins.
They were in a back part of the Miami Sea Aquarium and then train the dolphins.
And then basically, you know, they would shoot
all the exterior shots with the dolphins all at one time for all the episodes.
So they would come for like a month or five weeks and shoot all those
shots. And then everything else was done on sound stages and other locations.
And so then my dad was basically left alone for most of the year with the dolphins.
And so he lived there right when you see the flipper TV show,
like we're a ranger, Rick and his family live, like that's where my dad lived.
And he had the dock right there.
And he would sometimes take the TV set with a long extension cord and put it
out on the dock and like watch flipper with flipper, the dolphins.
And like he lived there with him and he was employed by the TV show
and the aquarium at the same time.
So he was like the highest paid person at the aquarium and was driving a sports car.
And, you know, then with the popularity flipper flipper,
the TV series took off like a rocket.
So now everyone wants to hug a dolphin, kiss a dolphin, see a dolphin.
So now Miami Sea Aquarium, where he worked, started catching dolphins and selling them.
I think it was like a female dolphin was like 350 bucks and a male dolphin
would be $250 and you could literally pull up in your station wagon
to this aquarium and for 350 bucks, they'd load a dolphin in your car
and you could drive off and they didn't know if it was going to someone's house
or going to an aquarium or where it was going.
And so you saw a proliferation all of a sudden of dolphinariums.
They were popping up everywhere with the popularity of flipper.
And so eventually the flipper series ended.
And those dolphins were partially owned by the TV show and the aquarium.
And they were actually just warehoused in the back.
They weren't used for shows after that.
And my dad after needed a few some time off and he was just kind of hanging out
and he gets a phone call one day that his favorite dolphin named Kathy.
There were five dolphins that played flipper,
but one he identified with the most and spent the most time with.
He got a call that she was near death.
So he went to this aquarium and she literally swam into his arms and died.
And he just at that moment kind of had this moment of epiphany.
Like, what have I done?
Like, I'm the guy that trained flipper that made dolphins popular.
And now they're popular.
Now they're dolphinariums everywhere.
And I helped catch a lot of those dolphins.
And this was in 1970, approximately right around now.
It was like the beginning of April end of March is when the flipper died.
And so he just kind of didn't know what to do.
And so on Earth Day, 1970, which is 50 years,
we're selling that anniversary this month on the 22nd.
My dad flew to Bimini where they had sold somebody their three or four dolphins.
It was called the Lerner Marine Laboratory.
It was owned by a family that owned a chain of shopping stores called Lerner.
And they had their own lab that they created.
It's basically their pet dolphins, but they had like kind of like other animals
in cages and you can see them.
And they said they were doing research, but it was really just a family thing.
Anyhow, all the dolphins had died.
There was only one left named Charlie Brown.
So on Earth Day, 1970, my dad flew to Bimini,
wearing a green armband in symbolic for Earth Day.
And he went that night of Earth Day and cut the pen to let Charlie Brown go.
And the pen fell away and the dolphin was swimming around.
He wouldn't leave.
And so my dad got in the pen.
He's trying to chase the dolphin out.
It wouldn't leave.
And finally he had rent.
My dad had rented a little rubber 12 foot rubber boat with a motor to get out to the sea pen.
And it was very high tide.
And so he was able to get the boat into the pen and was trying to chase the dolphin out.
And for hours and the dolphin wouldn't leave.
And eventually the tide dropped and now the boat is stuck inside of the pen that he rented.
So it's going to come back to him.
So he just put his green armband on.
He walked down to the office of the Lerner Marine Lab,
knocked on the door and basically told him like last night,
I tried to let your dolphin go.
So they arrested him.
And it was like front page of the Miami Herald flippers trainer in a flap.
And there's the picture of him being led into jail wearing his Miami's aquarium T-shirt.
He had a aquarium T-shirt on.
He spent like four or five days in jail.
And then the judge let him out and gave him a $5 fine and threw him out of the country.
And about two weeks after that, my dad was in Miami just milling about,
what do I want to do?
Like, what's going on with my life?
And he actually went sailing with, he was best friends at the times of the guy named Fred Neil,
who was a very famous folk singer.
He wrote the theme song to Midnight Cowboy.
Everybody's talking.
That was a big song.
But he's got many others.
And he was kind of the godfather of the folk music scene.
And many other musicians hung around this guy.
And so Fred that day was going sailing with Stephen Stills from Crosby Stills and Nash
and showed up at my dad's house and knew my dad was depressed and was like,
come on, come on the boat.
And so my dad's out sailing in the bay with them and they're talking about,
you know, my dad just told him what happened and he quit his job and he just got arrested.
And he's like, I think I want to do this.
I want to let dolphins go.
I want to tear down what I've just built this monster that I created,
this dolphinarium industry.
Stephen Stills and Fred Neil alone, I think right there wrote him a check.
They're like, long as what you do is legal, we're behind you.
And they wrote him a check for like five grand.
And with that money, my dad went and printed some dolphin project t-shirts.
And then he identified a dolphin in the keys.
There's a place called Dolphin Research Center in the keys.
It was called, I think it was called Flipper Seaschool back then.
And it was a place where you could pay to swim with the dolphins.
And a guy named Hugh Downs, he was a famous broadcaster.
He used to host 2020 back in the day when 2020 was like 60 minutes.
It was a respectable like news show.
And he owned this dolphin.
It was like his pet dolphin.
And he lived at this facility where they took care of it.
And whenever he was in the keys, he'd visit it.
It was kind of like Bubbles the Chimp with Michael Jackson.
The Chimp wasn't at Michael's house all the time.
It was like once in a while he'd go visit it wherever it was.
But so my dad convinced Hugh Downs to let him have the dolphin
and that they wanted to release it back in the wild.
And so my mom and dad, who weren't married, they were just dating at the time,
went down to the keys, set up a tent, and had a dolphin project logo
that we still have to this day on the tent and lived there with the dolphins.
And we eventually moved them up to Coconut Grove where I am now, Keep Us Gain.
And we set up a facility there where we had the dolphins for a couple of years.
And then eventually rented a suit plane, put the dolphins in and flew them to the Bahamas.
Wow.
1974, I think, 74, 75, and just flew around until we saw wild dolphins
and landed the sea plane and let them go.
And that was the first release of dolphins that the dolphin project did.
Wow.
And so we basically had that mandate.
My dad basically spent the past 50 years of his life, 50 years on April 22nd,
releasing, trying to tear down this industry that he created.
And no, there's been a lot of whistleblower, Blackfish had a bunch of whistleblower trainers
because my dad has that experience of being in the industry to be able to speak about it.
But his story is just so unique because he was just there at the birth of the movement.
It's not his fault what happened, but he was in that position where he was part of what made
dolphins popular and then also catching them.
And so he really felt responsible for it.
So he's just, I think the guilt is kind of like led him his whole life.
It's almost like he's a vigilante of sorts.
You know what I mean?
How many times has your dad been arrested or are you, have you guys both been arrested?
He's been arrested a half a dozen to a dozen times, but they were all by design.
Right.
You know, we went that day, knew that what was being arrested was part of the plan.
There was somebody already there to bail him out, like, you know, back then as well,
you know, we were really seen as the, like the cusp, you know, we're on the, we're the fringe,
you know, they stripped my dad and me in front of an aquarium protesting.
There's nobody else there.
And so if you get arrested, that's going to get the news there, you know, and like,
how do you get on TV?
How do you get this issue out there?
It's like you do it and you have to, because back then there was nobody protesting.
It was not an issue.
It was always in the newspaper, SeaWorld says, or blah, blah, blah aquarium says,
and the dolphin project accuses.
We were always on the defense, like our word wasn't as good as their word because they're
the experts because they have, you know what I mean?
Like they're seen as the experts.
They have dolphins in their place where we've totally flipped that script now.
Now it's completely the other way around.
Like, you know, what's happened in the past 10 years has just been a revolution and it took
40 years of work to make.
We've made it now part of pop culture for it not to be popular to have dolphins in captivity.
We've been spoofed on Family Guy on South Park on The Simpsons.
They've all done cove or blackfish themed episodes.
You know, Harry Styles in concerts that don't go to SeaWorld.
50 million girls the next day.
They don't even know what SeaWorld is.
They just know God just spoke.
There's a place called SeaWorld and they're never going there.
You know, it's like, so that's when you hit that level of pop culture, we've just flipped
that script and it's like all these places are just kind of a dying archaic.
Like they're built on a model from like the 1950s, like roadside, like biggest ball of twine.
See the big lumberjack, see, you know, wikiwachi and Sarasota, like the mermaids,
dolphins, you know, doing performing stupid tricks.
Like it's all this model that's phasing out.
Where are we today in regards to captivity of whales and dolphins in places like SeaWorld
compared to, say, 10 years ago?
It just depends where you live.
Like, you know, places that we're working really hard.
Like I'm working, we have a big project in Indonesia.
There, I'm seeing the, you know, collapsing and we're shutting down places and we're confiscating
animals. But then you go to a country like China, they're building a new city the size of Miami
every week, a new city.
They're building from scratch every, the whole city of everything and they're coming online
and that city wants to have an aquarium, you know?
So you see a huge growth of aquariums in China right now, huge.
Really?
Yeah, because they're literally building entire cities at once right now and they're building
them all over the place.
And so, you know, they're building everything at once.
All the movie theaters, the aquarium and their aquariums popping up.
That's probably the biggest, you know, right now the main most famous exporter of dolphins
is Japan.
And it was out when you see that in the movie, The Code.
Right.
Probably Japan is probably the number one customer for Japan because they have many dolphinariums.
I think Japan is like the size of California and they've got, you know, more dolphinariums
in our country as they have like 50 or 60 and they're, most of them are pretty bad.
So they're disposable dolphins.
So they buy them all the time and they get a certain price when they sell them inside
Japan, but when they export them to China is when they get the maximum price.
Which is like in the hundreds of thousands, right?
They're probably the number two buyer of dolphins after Japan itself.
Are they still getting up to like 150 grand for a dolphin that goes into a tank for,
you know, for people to come by and watch it?
Taizyu, Japan.
Taizyu is where they're slaughtering them and there's a market there locally in the village
for eating dolphins.
neighboring villages don't eat dolphins.
It's more of a localized thing in this village.
And so when you kill a dolphin and you hack it all up, it's worth about $500 in meat.
But if they take that same dolphin and export it to China,
train, if they break the dolphin and have some basic training,
they can get up to $132,000 is what we've seen.
We've seen a sale for that much for a dolphin.
Depending on the amount of training, untrained maybe $30,000 and maybe $30,000
is the price inside of Japan for the dolphin.
So clearly the captivity is the underpinning of the slaughter because at $500 a dolphin,
they really, these guys couldn't really sustain the lifestyles that they have.
These are some of the richest guys, these fishermen in the village of Taizyu.
They drive the nicest cars because they're selling captive dolphins and they're selling them for
an incredible amount of money.
And even in the movie, there's one point I think I remember when
I mean, there's days when they catch 20, 30, 40 dolphins at once.
If you're thinking every 10 dolphin that they could potentially maximum get up,
that's $1.2 million every 10 dolphin.
It's like an afternoon's work to go catch 10 dolphins.
It's ridiculous.
It's like between all the guys, it's like a pretty lucrative business.
Less people are eating the meat, so there's no way they can survive on that.
It's the captivity that drives it.
And what for people that are listening that don't know about the Cove?
The Cove is a documentary and it's about a place in Japan, a very particular village,
very remote.
And this village is the birthplace of whaling.
Whaling has been going on there for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years.
It's basically the birthplace of modern whaling is in this village.
But in the late 1950s, they started hunting dolphins.
So it is not a traditional, hunting whales is traditional and cultural in Japan.
Hunting dolphins is not traditional whatsoever.
It started in the late 50s after the war and they basically go out.
It's 12 boats and they look for pods of dolphins.
And when they see them, the boats will get into like, they'll form like a horseshoe shape.
And they'll have these poles that are coming from the top of the boat
where they're driving the boat down into the water.
And where they go, the pole goes in the water, it flanges out like the end of a trumpet.
And so they bang on that pole with like a metal wrench while they're driving the boat
in this horseshoe shape.
And it creates a wall of sound.
And with that wall of sound, they drive the dolphins many miles from the open ocean
into the cove in Taiji.
And forever, we knew dolphins were dying there.
But the way the landscape is where they killed the dolphins, you physically can't see it.
They blocked off any entrance to it from the road.
The beach you can't see around this part where they're, we know they're dying,
but we just couldn't see it.
And so the cove movie, we were able to finally expose how what's going on in that cove.
And we were able to take, we worked with industrial light magic who does all the Star Wars films.
And we made rocks that match exactly the rocks they have in Japan.
And we hid cameras in them.
And we went with like a special ops team in the middle of the night and hid microphones
and cameras everywhere under water and trees and groans.
And we're able to film for the first time in high definition, like what goes on there.
And what happens, it's a horrendous slaughter where they basically just drive a spike through
the dolphin's head.
And what they're doing now is they actually, as soon as they pull the spike out,
they put a cork in the hole so the blood doesn't flow out.
So we can't get those graphic images anymore of the bay filling with blood.
And they've now taken a tarp.
They have wires that run across the cove so they can run a tarp across.
So they create like a little sheltered area because now we go there as the dolphin project.
We're there every day during the dolphin hunting season.
And with drones, with monitors, we're there every single day.
We live stream exactly what's going on.
And they try every way to block it.
But it's still going on.
It just ended on March 1st.
Every year, it's still happening.
Every year, it begins September 1st through the March.
And there's a quota.
They have, you know, I think it's about an estimate eight to nine species or seven
species that they actually get a quota per animal for each species,
how many they're allowed to slaughter.
And they try to meet that quota.
And then they also have orders for dolphins and they'll try to fill those orders.
And is it correct when in the documentary, they talk about dolphin meat because it's
such a big fish.
The meat is so full of mercury, right?
Oh, yeah, it's actually a mammal.
But because it's such a big animal, its meat is full of toxic levels of mercury.
So it's not even good for you to eat, right?
You know, I mean, generally after that movie and talk, you know, I've met some of the experts and
what I've learned is kind of you don't really want to eat fish that are bigger than your plate.
Because the bigger the fish is, the more the higher it is on the food chain,
the higher in the food chain, it's eating things that are eating other things that are eating
other things.
And so the levels of toxicity build up.
And then when you have dolphins that can live 20, 30, 40 years and they're big,
the levels build up immensely.
And then when you have whales, it's even more so.
And you know, with the dolphin meat, we are finding levels that were 2,000 times the legal limit.
And so, and Tai Chi also has a mortality rate 50% higher than any village of its size.
So there's something going on in Tai Chi, like clearly.
And it's not in any other city.
And it, mercury poisoning is not something that like you wake up one day like, I'm sick,
like it's degenerative.
So what happens is it's like changing the neurons in your brain and it's changing who
you are as a person slowly.
So you don't notice the changes, but you're slowly becoming this other person.
And like your hearing goes out, you're yelling and like things like that happen that you
don't really notice.
And so it's hard, you know, they haven't really done the testing that they need to do
there because clearly something's going on.
And didn't at one point, somebody say to the people of Tai Chi to the fishermen in
particular, let, hey, we'll give you all, we'll pay you.
We'll pay you all the money that you're making slaughtering these dolphins.
If you'll just consider stop this killing and stopping the fishing of these dolphins.
And they refused it because they said it was a part of their, their culture that they didn't
want to give up or it was something.
No matter what you hit them with, they come with some other reason.
So it's like, you know, it's not about, you know, it's, it's, I've heard the reason it's
pest control, right?
There are no more fish in the ocean because the dolphins ate them all.
Like they've put up sharks before where they're like literally saying the dolphins of whales
are eating all the fish.
Therefore our fishing, it's clearly the overfishing that's causing there's no fish,
not the dolphins.
Well, so they say it's pest control.
They say, you know, there are dolphins and fish.
There's no difference between the two.
So what's the big deal?
You know, you guys eat pigs and chickens and cows.
And there's every reason.
So, so, you know, but what happens with the mercury issue?
And so we hammer on it for us, we, we, when we're there, we try to portray this not as
it's not an animal rights issue.
We're not like, Oh, they're cute dolphins.
You need to save them.
We were like, they're full of toxic mercury.
These people are eating them.
When we first got there, eating dolphin meat was compulsory in the school systems.
Like it's no longer like that anymore, but they were forcing the kids to eat dolphin
meat because they were trying to make them dolphin eat.
So there'd be a pipeline that when they get older, they'll still buy dolphin meat.
Like they could justify it.
They could justify it and also create a future generation of people that will buy this product.
You know, in Japan, like everyone's family ate whale meat.
After World War II, they were dependent on anything they could eat.
And, you know, historically they are a whaling nation.
And if you go to Japan, it's very mountainous.
They have a trouble.
That's why like all cattle, all beef from Japan is exported for imported from Australia.
You can't really, there's no place in Japan to grow cattle.
So they're dependent on the outside world for their food.
They're an island and they're the, I think fourth largest economy in the world.
Yet they're for their food, they're completely dependent on the outside world.
And so they're very cautious of like one cow gets mad cow disease.
It's like they stop all imports into Japan.
They shut it down.
Same bird flu, same thing.
They're dependent on China for poultry.
But the reality is in Japan, like 90% of people eat some sort of seafood, 90% of the time.
They eat everything and jellyfish, fish.
I mean, when you get breakfast there, you'll get 10 different bowls.
The open one, there's eyeballs and I mean, just all sorts of stuff going on.
That's just that culture there.
And so if it turned out that the seafood is not safe to eat and there's mercury,
that country's in real trouble.
They've now got a food crisis going on there because now they're completely dependent
on the outside world for food.
They can't sustain themselves.
And so that's why the government, they're so careful about how to approach this,
because there's definitely a problem going on in Tai Chi.
We're testing the meat.
All the meat is toxic.
People are eating that meat.
There's no warning labels on it.
Pregnant women are eating it.
Old people are eating it.
But I think the second the government admits there's a problem,
it opens up liability that these people can now sue the government.
Everybody could sue the government in Japan potentially.
So it's a Pandora's box that we've started with this mercury issue.
They're not like the U.S. that can have their own cows and they could just cut themselves off
in the world and do their own thing.
Like they're dependent on the rest of the world for food,
especially if their seafood is not safe,
which is what they eat for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Aren't they also one of the biggest seafood exporters?
Probably.
And it's not necessarily caught there.
For instance, like tuna.
Like the tuna you buy at your store or you go to a sushi restaurant and there's tuna there.
That tuna might have been caught in Argentina two weeks before.
And then it was shipped in Japan where it goes through the tuna auction.
And then from that tuna auction, it was shipped to a seller, a buyer in the States.
So it's, you know, even though Japan may have not caught that tuna,
a lot of the fish goes through to Japan before it goes anywhere in the world.
That's where they have the big seafood auctions.
Interesting.
They control those markets.
And that's one of the biggest tuna auctions in the world is in the village right next to Taiji.
Anytime you have, especially in a place like that where you have like auctions and things
like that and cash, the mafia is involved, the Yakuza.
So there's a big Yakuza presence just in the neighboring village of Taiji,
which would make me think they probably have their fingers in the dolphin export business as well.
Yakuza?
Yakuza, that's the Japanese mafia.
They're the ones who say the Japanese guy is full covered, full body tattoos.
Okay.
Like in Taiji, you go to any hotel, like they're all built on what's called an onsen,
which is like a natural hot spring.
Every hotel there is built on top of one.
And there's like, you go down this room and sit in the spring,
but they all have signs like no tattoos, which I even have tattoos a couple and I get problems.
They're clearly on Yakuza, but those signs are meant for Yakuza.
They don't want the mafia guys hanging out in the steam rooms.
Really?
They're everywhere down there.
You see them everywhere.
Have you guys had any run-ins with those guys personally?
Not Yakuza, so to speak, but we have, they have an ultra right wing there,
which would be like our version of like, you know, like maybe like the Proud Boys or like
Neo-Nazis that hang out or like, they're like that.
And they even dress similar.
They'll dress in like, high-watered pants that are really tight with a button-down shirt,
shaved head, like skinheads that kind of dress up.
And they show up and they're prone to violence.
And they'll do the kind of stuff like, one thing they do all the time is they drive with a truck
with like a speaker on the top that looks like it's from like the 60s, like a giant bell,
like the most massive speaker you ever seen on the roof of their van.
Yeah.
We're there and they'll just go back and forth in front of our hotel for like 20 hours a day,
like as loud as they can, like, go home, old Barry, like shouting threats and like.
Wow.
When the Cove was shown for like a week and just a couple theaters in Japan,
they found out who the mother is of the owner of the distributor that bought the Cove.
And they went to her house and surrounded it and banged on all the doors and windows
and like shook her house.
It was it was a distributor.
The the company.
But when the Cove came out, he this distributor in Japan bought the rights of the Cove and
it only showed for like a week and like two theaters, but they went and like threatened
his family with violence.
Wow.
That is insane.
So whether they're doing it on their own or whether that they're just an arm of a bigger
operation, a Yakuza operation that's telling that they're the arm that goes out and handles
stuff like that.
You know, like, I don't right.
You see it there.
It's you know, it's not something I'm making up.
You the mafia is a clear presence down there.
Now, does this the whale meat in Japan from all the whales they catch?
Does that have high levels of mercury like dolphin too?
Yes.
OK.
And that you'll find like when you go to Tokyo, you'll find specialty restaurants that,
you know, maybe a few in Tokyo specialty places where you can buy whale meat.
And in Taiji, of course, where the dolphin is, there's tons of places there that specialize
it.
And in fact, you'll see tour buses coming every week, a full with old people that are
taking a specific like whale eating tour from a neighboring big city.
They'll come six hours by bus to go to three different restaurants that specialize in whale
meat and sushi and stuff like that.
Because they have some connection to it, because after the war, that's what they had to eat.
And, you know, so they had this connection.
So it's really an older generation on its own, whaling would die out like whaling is
completely subsidized by the government.
It loses so much, you know, I think $40 million or something, it loses every year.
And the government puts money into it to prop it up.
And what it is, you know, you said is, you know, they blame, they blame over fishing
on the dolphins, it's pest control, it's, there's plenty of dolphins, whatever excuse,
because those excuses always change.
What it really boils down to is whaling is kind of the last vestige.
And it's like, it's their final thing of like, you know, we're on because after the war,
we basically the United States, we ran Japan.
We told them, you can't have an army, you can't do this.
This is how you're going to have to now live and to be part of the society.
Because they were outcast after World War II.
And so it's one of the last like things they're holding on to, like you're not going to,
no one's going to tell us to stop doing this.
Because none of it makes sense.
The whole whaling thing that they have to put money into it, no one's eating it.
Right.
They put it into schools to try to get young kids interested in it.
And, you know, back to full of mercury, every part of it is bad.
Then last stubborn vestige of imperialism, like you're not, you know, you're not,
the big United States isn't going to tell us what to do.
And even on top of that, the whaling commission, it's so interesting how they
can go out and they can find countries in the Caribbean.
All over the world.
Yeah.
Countries all over the world.
They're basically.
Bank of the country as they can buy.
So how, explain to me how that works, how that whole process works and how that benefits them.
We'll do it for many, you know, this is just one.
So there's the international whaling commission that regulates whaling.
Japan has left that now.
They're not part of it.
They just left two years ago because they're like,
we're just going to resume whaling on our own and not be part of this.
And so, and so what you haven't been allowed to wail for years.
And so what Japan did, there's a loophole that you can do some whaling for scientific research.
So they just painted on the side of all their whaling ships a big cross and wrote scientific
research.
And like when people would fly over to monitor the hold up signs while they're chopping the
whale up saying, we are testing tissue samples, you know, but then the next week in the grocery
store is that same whale is everywhere.
He's in every grocery store.
And so what Japan would do is to try to control the whaling commission and make these loopholes
is they'll go to countries that are not members of the whaling commission,
like small, poor Caribbean countries or South Pacific countries.
And they'll build something for them.
You know, we'll, we'll build you a new runway.
We'll build you a new road.
We'll build you a fisheries building.
That was the famous one in the Caribbean.
They give them a, they will build you a $10 million.
Like, you know, half these islands have no building that costs $10 million.
We're going to build you guys a $10 million building to house your fisheries offices.
Well, they didn't need a fisheries office before that and they didn't need one after.
So a year later, the building's empty.
There's chickens running through it.
They've got this, they call them white elephants.
It's like this project.
Yeah.
And then just a year later, there's weeds growing through it.
And like, and, but, but for that, you have to join the international whaling commission
and you vote how we vote.
And we'll pay every year when the meeting, you know, Jim, it's like,
every year when there's a meeting, we'll pay for your delegation to fly first class
to the meeting.
And, you know, we'll give you whatever you want, why you're there, your massages
and stay in a nice hotel.
And so it's a win for them.
Wow.
I mean, you think about, think about Tai Chi, the only people benefiting
out of it are basically the 40 guys that are involved.
The guys that run the boats, they're hand up the guys work on the boats
and the guys that work in the slaughterhouse.
They're the only ones profiting.
No one else in the village is profiting.
It's these 40 guys, they're a little fishery.
They have a dolphin hunting union and that union is the only one profiting.
Japan allowed this to go on and these 40 guys are the only ones benefiting.
The town's not benefiting.
The Cove probably did billions of dollars of damage to Japan's economy.
There are people that will never travel to Japan again.
That will never buy a Japanese car.
That will never buy Japanese products ever again because of what they saw in the Cove.
It was in tens of thousands of newspaper articles.
I mean, it was the worst PR campaign ever for them.
And they allowed it to go on and back up these 40 guys doing what they do.
It's just so bizarre.
It is so strange to think about it.
Today, like current day, would you say that that Cove in Tai Chi
is the number one source of dolphins in captivity?
Like is that where most people are purchasing their dolphins for aquariums or for parks?
Year after year after year, I would say yes.
But also I'm aware of a huge export that's happening that most people have no clue out of Cuba.
Cuba supplies a lot of dolphins.
Really?
Yeah.
And we're looking into that right now, but it's a communist country.
So to get any government data is almost impossible.
But from what I'm hearing from people there, it could be close to Tai Chi as far as the export.
And I think Tai Chi, I could look it up.
I think it's somewhere around 100 and something a year or 100 a year that maybe get exported.
I don't know if Cuba is like that year after year or just like sometimes
we'll have a spike and there won't be any exports.
But throughout the Caribbean, you have like in Mexico, I don't know if you've ever been in Mexico,
but like near Tulum, every half mile, there's a place to swim with the dolphins for like 30 miles.
They're just one after the other, after another, after another.
A lot of those are I think are coming from Cuba.
And they're all, you know, all over the Caribbean.
Anywhere or cruise ship stop, you'll find dolphins in captivity.
And so I'm thinking a lot of those in the Caribbean are coming from Cuba.
But Cuba doesn't do the slaughtering like Tai Chi.
No.
No.
No.
But they have a national aquarium where they have dolphins and they are always considered
kind of like Casca's pet dolphins.
And actually, if I remember correctly, Che Guevara's niece, his niece,
his sister, his niece, is then like the national vet at the aquarium.
What?
They're probably involved in the export.
You know, I'm sure the higher ups in Cuba are getting, you know, making money off of that.
Do you guys have any plans to go down there to check that out at all?
Yeah.
And I live in Miami.
So I, you know, half the people I know are Cuban and I have friends that go back and forth all
the time.
So I've had people looking into it.
The other documentary that you guys shot with Pete Zuccherini, where you guys go to,
I believe it's Indonesia.
Is that right?
Who's that guy?
That's the TV show I did.
We was a crazy guy.
Pete's shot of, he's worked on maybe a couple of things we worked on.
We've probably done over a thousand documentaries, but you know, the Cove stands out because it
won the Academy Award, but then we did a TV version of the Cove called Blood Dolphins.
Blood Dolphin.
That's what it is.
That was like a mini series that I did for Animal Planet.
And who was that crazy guy who lived there?
He was kind of like, I mean, honestly, yes.
What was his last name?
Porter.
Chris Porter.
Chris Porter.
Chris Porter reminds me of one of those people who run those,
those lion petting zoos, like in that recent documentary that just came out on Netflix.
It's called Tiger King.
Tiger King.
He reminds me just like one of those people, like where he just has that giant swimming pool
with all those dolphins in there and he goes in there and swims with them.
And that literally blew my mind.
Correlation with all those people like, you know,
there's a bunch of them.
There's, you know, there's all these, there's a guy on Instagram, the real Tarzan.
Someone showed me his account the other day.
And the guy's a clown.
It's like, it's never about the dolphins or the animals.
It's about them.
The animals, the backdrop, and it's always about getting the picture, the Instagram picture
as close as you can with a chimpanzee, with a lion, with whatever it is.
It's like any true sanctuary does not let you take selfies with the animals.
Like our place where we have the dolphins, the general public is not allowed in there.
There's no one coming.
You can't take selfies.
No one's coming and swimming with the dolphins.
The dolphins are retired.
Like they're just there to be wild animals.
And that's what wild animals do.
I never, you know, there's a huge fascination with the Irwin family.
And that, you know, for me, he was one of the worst things that ever happened to wild animals,
Steve Irwin.
You know, he comes to zoo and he's just trying to promote animals and captivity.
And, you know, before him, when I grew up, all the documentaries, you know, when you saw a great
documentary about lions, it was usually by a husband and wife team that lived in Africa
for four years with the lions and had the absolute longest lens you could ever have
and got you right in there with lions being lions.
Steve Irwin was all about how close can I get to the animal?
And it was all about a wide angle lens, not a zoom lens.
Like how freaking, you know, how up close on top can I jump out of the truck and land right on the
animal? And it changed the, it became a spin off of shows all about that.
And it just changed the relationship.
But it was, it used to be all about being as far away and letting the animal be an animal and
seeing the behaviors that, as soon as you introduce a person, the animal's not doing
wild animal behaviors anymore.
He's doing something else.
And so it changed our whole relationship with animals, not for the better, I think.
Yeah, there's sort of this weird primal desire that humans have to be next to them or to hold
them or to like harness the power of this wild animal.
So you see online a lot of these social media is so-called sanctuaries and it's the person
who runs the sanctuary, it's like they're in every picture.
It's like, that's not what I want to see.
I want to see the animals just being animals, not you, like, it's not about you.
Yeah, it's so, it's so weird.
So the guy, Chris Porter, where, where does he live?
He's Canadian.
He's from Canada.
He's from Canada, but doesn't he live in like Indonesia somewhere?
He was in the Solomon Islands, but that's all.
After that show, it all shut down.
You see, the dolphins let go and he was, he was, when I was there, he was out of money.
Like, really?
I was having to give him on a little bit of 20 bucks every day just so to buy some food for
him and the guys, like he had no money.
Like he had bought his ticket to be on that episode, to get there and showed up with like $0.00.
Because that was fascinating, man.
That was that thing, the way that you guys had to travel to get there, to interview the
people that were living there, that lived off these dolphins.
I go there all the time.
I usually go there twice a year, Solomon Islands.
That's next to Papua New Guinea.
Why do you go there twice a year?
What do you do when you go there?
Well, a couple of things.
The reason he went there is because Solomon Islands is probably one of the only places
in the world where they traditionally hunt dolphins.
They've been doing it maybe because it's an orally and oral history there,
but it could go back 500 years, 600 years that they've been hunting dolphins.
And in Solomon's, they've kind of mixed like dolphin hunting and like Christianity and
like Judaism into almost one thing where like, you know, some people equate when they're
signing the dolphins that it's the blood of Christ.
And then they're in the Solomon's, it's very tribal.
And so they do a dowry when they get married.
And this, the villages that do the dolphin hunting, dolphin teeth is a very important
part of the dowry when you get married.
Every wedding, the bride and her whole family are dressed in head to toe wearing dolphin,
you know, headbands and big ornate necklaces.
And they string dolphins teeth together to form like strings of like almost like money.
And so it's very symbolic for them.
And so with the dolphin dealers and dolphin hunters, people that sell dolphins to aquariums
realize countries that will allow people to slaughter dolphins will probably allow us to
catch a few of them and export them.
So people like Chris Porter realized, oh, they're slaughtering dolphins in the Solomon's.
I bet we could probably export if they're catching them already.
We could just pay them a little extra to catch them for us and we could export them
out of the country to aquariums.
And so that's what he did.
And so he created a mess where tribes there were going and just catching dolphins and,
you know, Chris Porter wouldn't be around to be in Canada and they'd just catch the dolphins
and have 30 dolphins pen together and they try to keep them alive until Chris Porter showed up.
They didn't know if he was coming in a week or a month.
And these are villages that are barely, they're catching one fish to feed themselves for that day.
They're living in huts.
And now they're having to feed 30 dolphins for some guy that might give them money.
And so it just created disaster scenarios where, you know, dolphins were being caught
and dying and these pens and the villages were getting upset and warring with each other.
We go over money of some white guy and like, so I've been continuing.
I mean, if you see blood dolphins, there's a tribe called Fanele.
They're the specific tribe that really hunt dolphins to this day.
And I've been slowly working with them to see if they will move away from dolphin hunting.
And so I built them like schools and I've been providing the kids educations and
different kinds of grants to the villages as the numbers of dolphins decrease that are killed.
And now do you go there with like a team of people or?
No, I go by myself or I go sometimes with, there's an anthropologist that I work with.
She lives in Miami and she did her doctoral thesis on that village back in the 70s.
And so I go with her a lot just because she knows the village.
She's been going there so long and I can speak their local language now,
but I couldn't when I first went there.
So that was helpful.
Yeah. Now, obviously, there's a controversy when you talk about dolphins A being,
I mean, there's a difference between people paying hundreds of thousands of dollars for
dolphins to sell tickets to their aquarium.
But what about when there's dolphins that were injured?
Like for example, in Clearwater, there's this dolphin named Winter who had its tail,
whose tail was caught in a net.
They had to surgically remove its tail and build it up, build it a prosthetic tail.
And, you know, their claim to fame at Clearwater Marine Aquarium is that they'll sort of
rescue dolphins who have been seriously injured and that can't survive in the wild by themselves
and they'll take care of them there.
Right. So that dolphin, I mean, it was that dolphin was probably going to die.
And now they've rescued her and she's living now in a sewage treatment plant
that 600,000 people a year have to want to see her and clapping and screaming at her.
Like she, what did she get saved from exactly?
I'm not sure.
Like literally that place was a sewage treatment plant at the old sewage treatment plant
for Clearwater.
How many dolphins have they released since that movie came out?
How many?
None.
Right.
That is, it's pure exploitation.
It's like just because you make a sign that says rescue we have and release or sanctuary
doesn't mean that's what it is.
Like they literally, I think in 2015 when that movie came out, they had 800,000 visitors there.
Every one of them wants to see winner.
Winner is in an old round sewage treatment tank.
There's nothing.
When you go to a zoo, even the snake gets more consideration than the dolphin.
When you look at the snake in his tank, there's a rock and a stick.
And if the snake wants to get away from people, he can go behind the rock.
The dolphin isn't going to completely bear it.
There is nothing in that tank.
She can't get away.
The winter is just stuck all day.
Every kid is screaming at the top of their lungs in a line and then you walk past winter
right into a gift shop.
That's what it's all about.
It's just about exploitation and money.
Right.
They wanted to do something with winter and rescuer.
The ocean is literally 50 yards away.
Why don't you build a sea pen right there?
Why is she in the sewage treatment tank in a building?
That's not rescuing.
They kept her alive.
But that's not living is doing things.
If you're not doing things, you're not living.
That dolphin is just existing.
It's a very sad situation.
It's pure exploitation.
Yeah.
And there's a guy in the head of it, David Gates.
Like when that movie came out, his bio on his Twitter was winter's agent.
I saw that.
Like, what is that?
Like, it's so cringe, that guy.
Oh, I mean, I helped work on that movie and I had no idea about any of this.
And it's just how can we exploit this situation, you know?
And it's like, now they're talking about building this massive new facility.
Well, that massive new facility is going to need more dolphins that they
to generate income to get people in there.
It's just a revolving door of like misery.
And it is massive, man.
I drove by it the other day.
It is they are expanding it.
It's now it's gone to like four stories, I believe.
We have the only dolphin sanctuary in the world.
I built it for about $75,000 in about three weeks.
Done.
Yeah.
The open ocean, the dolphins can look up.
She can, the dolphins can see the stars at night.
They're in the open ocean.
The tide comes in and out every day.
So there's a current to move against.
There's little sounds of the snapping shrimp.
There's fish and swimming in and out of the pen.
That's living.
At least that's some sort of something.
Right.
They're just existing.
And for what purpose?
Like there is, I have yet to hear any justifiable reason
for having a dolphin in captivity.
Like they're not ambassadors.
A dolphin is no more an ambassador than for dolphins
than like Mickey Mouse's for mice.
Like these are just caricatures of the animals in the wild.
They're not, they don't represent the animals in the wild.
They're not doing any behaviors that the animals in the wild do.
Like this is just a forced together group of dolphins that we've made.
And like, you know, oh, well, if the children don't see them,
then how are they going to learn about them?
We're educating a hundred million, you know,
a hundred million people come through SeaWorld every year
that we're educating.
That is ridiculous.
Like I know eight year olds.
The average eight year old boy knows like half of the scientific names
for dinosaurs and the crustacean period that they lived in.
Who's seen a dinosaur?
I've never seen a dinosaur.
Yet kids know a name of every freaking dinosaur
and what period they lived in.
Elephants we've had since the beginning of time have been in captivity
and they're on the verge of extinction.
I've never, I work with dolphins.
I've never in real life seen a blue whale.
Yet the blue whales came off the endangered species list
without anyone seeing it.
So there's no correlation seeing an animal and saving it.
Like if that were true, I think they say in Japan,
like, yeah, I forgot the number a hundred million people a year
go through their aquariums.
Well, if all those people are going through the dolphinariums
and are educated, when the dolphins are being slaughtered,
where are all these people?
I'm, but I'm there by myself.
Like where are they?
You're not getting any educated.
You're not leaving my sea querying and being told
that these dolphins are dying.
Like this is what you can do.
You don't don't eat tuna.
Like dolphins are dying of tuna nets or being slaughtered.
You don't get any of that.
Like there's no education happening there.
No.
Dolphins, they think about all animals in captivity.
Like the most modern zoo now,
they try to make it like the elephants are on an island.
There's like a moat and it looks like wherever.
And they're just being elephants.
The dolphins are literally evolutionary, the highest animal.
And yet they're the only ones left that have to perform six times a day,
seven days a week.
There's a show begging for their food.
Like doing the stupid, the dumbest tricks,
wearing a Christmas hat or a fake beard or putting out a fire.
It's like, that's like the fifties,
some clown thing from the fifties.
Like, yeah.
No, it literally is.
That's the dolphin version of Tiger King.
It's just absurd.
Like that really painted a very clear picture of it.
I mean, especially rang through with me with,
just thinking of that guy, Chris Porter and David Yates.
He's kind of like the Chris Porter of Clearwater in a way.
And now with me, you know, there's zero excuse
because like I went like four years ago
and I made the day, the very first VR rig came out.
We're a rig for go pros.
We could shoot virtual reality.
Okay.
The day it came out, the next day I had it literally.
And I went and shot the very first underwater
swimming with wild dolphins.
It's on our website, Dolphin Project.
If you watch it on our Facebook page or through YouTube,
you get the 360 effect.
Oh, cool.
And it's basically you swimming with a pot of wild dolphins.
It's narrated by Ian Summerhold and the actor.
And I made that for like 10 grand, that thing.
And so the whole point of my video was like,
someone like SeaWorld could spend a million dollars.
I mean, the last work of that sold in captivity
was 15 million dollars.
And then they had to probably have to build a 30 million
dollar tank and then the upkeep.
For a million dollars, you could make the most incredible
virtual reality experience where the whole group of people
comes into a theater, puts on the goggles,
and you're in the wild swimming in a pot of wild.
It'd be incredible.
So I think you can do that for 10 minutes.
We don't need animals in captivity anymore.
With VR, augmented reality, 3D, you can do incredible things
that are far more immersive than any experience
you're ever going to have in a zoo.
So do you know any statistics on how many aquariums or SeaWorld
locations there are in the U.S. right now?
I don't have those numbers off the top of my head.
And what is the trend with those places right now?
Like what's going on with them?
I know orcas.
In the U.S., I would say it's going down.
Like you had the Cove, which created this wave of people
now that loved dolphins.
And then you had a second hit with Blackfish,
so the wave got bigger.
And so places that were newer on the drawing board
basically aren't happening because, you know,
and then places like a recent place
that had opened up in Arizona.
There's one company that owns most of the swim places
in, with dolphins in Mexico.
And they started infiltrating the U.S.
and they had opened up in New Mexico.
And they had a dolphin death.
And there was just some local people
that were protesting all the time.
And then they had another death.
And then they had a third death.
And we got involved and we actually
helped organize a couple of protests
right after the third dolphin death.
And there was a huge golf tournament,
like one of the biggest ones in the country.
And so I rented a plane with a banner
that said,
Dolphin Eris, why are three dolphins dead?
And we flew it over the golf tournament.
It was like something 200,000 people
were on the ground at this golf course watching.
It was to live on TV.
And they actually, the TV camera,
the golfing panned up to the camera,
panned up to the plane.
You see it on TV, on the thing,
and plus all the local media covered it.
No way.
Why it's flying around?
Another dolphin died.
And I literally had to fly in
because all the banner planes were being used
for the golf tournament.
There was no numbers.
I had to change the number for three to four
because now four dolphins had died.
Literally as I'm flying the banner, a dolphin died.
We had to fly in the number four
from California on another plane.
And we flew the banner the next day
at the tournament.
Why are four dolphins dead?
And when people saw that, it just crushed the place.
And within a week they were done
and the dolphins were shipped off out of the country.
Wow.
And so there's that kind of ground swell.
Like you didn't see that 20 years ago,
but 20 years ago it had just been my dad and I
and we would have looked like freaks
and they would have played us off
as we're some fringe people.
But now literally within days,
hundreds of people were in front of that place
protesting and like...
That's incredible.
Just changed that, you know.
Now your dad lives in Denmark, right?
He was in Denmark.
Is there a reason that he lives there?
Or is it like just a personal thing?
No, he married a woman from...
He married a Danish woman
and she lived with him for many years.
But when the code came out,
probably for the three years after the code was out,
he basically was that...
Because when you have a movie that wins
an Academy Award like that,
you're just on the road.
It's just week after week.
Somebody's wanting to screen it somewhere.
The president of some country or...
And you can't say no.
It's like this could be an opportunity.
So he was just on the road so much.
She felt like if he wasn't around,
she'd rather be back in Denmark than here.
So they've just moved over there.
Okay.
Now is he still...
How active is he still with...
Really active.
Like I was just with him.
We were in...
But right before the quarantine,
we were in Bali where we have a dolphin sanctuary
and we were preparing two dolphins
that we're going to attempt to release there.
And...
But now with what's going on,
you know, he's 80 years old.
It may not be safe for him to travel
for a couple of years now.
We'll see what happens.
But up until now, he travels constantly.
So for...
When you went to Bali, for example,
can you walk me through what your guys' plan is
when you go there and what steps you guys take
to release these dolphins?
When I went to Bali, I used to...
I had a TV show, Blood Dolphins,
that I was just...
I was thinking about doing an episode there.
So I went to investigate it.
Because when you're doing a TV show,
you want to find places that are rich
where they have more than one dolphin story.
Like Solomon's, if you watch that episode,
there's, you know,
Chris Porter, the dolphin dealer in his facility,
and I'm trying to shut him down
and get the dolphin dealers out.
And then this village is hunting dolphins and killing them
and I'm trying to stop that.
And then there's some guy that had some dolphins
in his backyard
and I'm trying to shut...
So it had a lot of stories and angles
and so when you're doing for television,
it's helpful to have a lot of things like that.
And so Indonesia was another place
where there's a village that hunts dolphins.
You had a traveling dolphin circus,
the last traveling dolphin circus in the world.
And then you had tons of swim places in Bali.
And so it had many things going on.
And so I decided to do an episode there
and then that led on to us beginning a campaign
for 10 years in Indonesia.
And so one campaign, like I said, was free Bali dolphins,
which is Indonesia is a massive country,
but most of the tourism's based in Bali.
And so that's where all the swim with dolphins places
are popping up.
And so I was like, if I can get rid of all of them here,
that'll be a massive step.
There are other places in India that we'll work on,
but that's a big one.
And so that one, I work with people that are similar to me.
I have people on the ground there
that work for dolphin project full-time on this.
And we would do, we created a puppet show
about why dolphins should be in captivity
and two of them that travel continuously every week
in a different school, like around hundreds of schools.
Okay.
Bali is one of the capitals right now for graffiti.
All the biggest street artists in the world
are all stopped passing through Bali.
It's everywhere.
And so I bought thousands of dollars in pain
and gave free paint to any artist
that would do a free Bali dolphin mural.
And so they're everywhere.
You go every city block.
There's a massive dolphin, free Bali dolphin,
and then it's repetition.
It's like the obey poster.
Yeah.
You just see them so much.
It's like a repetition thing.
So we have so many of these free Bali things.
It's like you just, you see it block after block.
I rented every video monitor at the airport.
Like when you get off and you're waiting for your bags
for 30 minutes, the screen had an animation I ran for free.
Don't swim with captive dolphins in Bali.
And I just hammered for years and years and years
and just did press.
And like eventually we became partners
with the actual government.
We have a partnership with the forestry department
who manages all the dolphin issues.
And so any dolphin issue that arises in Indonesia,
they call us.
And so years ago I created, we call it Camp Lumba Lumba.
We actually found this national park
where it turns out all of the dolphins in Indonesia
are being illegally captured out of this park.
And so we built a facility there.
That's where the dolphins that will be released
will go to that facility.
Because chances are their families
still live in that area.
They're resident dolphins.
Like when you see the Cove in Japan,
those are what's called transient dolphins.
Those dolphins are swimming along,
migrating thousands of miles along the coastline of Japan.
And they happen, unfortunately, to come along
the coastline near Taiji.
Certain places have resident dolphins.
Like in Miami we have dolphins here
that every time you go on your boat,
you see the same dolphins.
They just live in this area.
They're not ever moving.
And so,
there's a huge resident pod in this area.
And so we found the fisherman we were able to identify
who was actually catching them
and how he was doing it.
And what was happening is the aquariums
would call this village and say,
we want to buy three dolphins.
So the expert fisherman guy,
he would go out and catch three dolphins.
And then he would basically phone it in as like,
I accidentally caught three dolphins in my fishing net.
Can you call the aquarium to come rescue them?
Wow.
He comes to rescue them and they never let him go.
And there's about 70 dolphins in captivity in Indonesia
that were all obtained that way.
And so what I did is I built,
I'm like, I built basically the first ever permanent
release facility.
Because we've released dolphins in the past,
but it was always like a specific dolphin in Brazil, Flipper.
He's one dolphin.
We built the facility, we let him go.
The facility got torn down.
Because there's many other dolphins in captivity there,
I decided to make something permanent
that's been there for about 10 years.
Then recently in Bali,
we just shut down a hotel called the Melka Hotel.
And it was a hotel that they basically had dolphins
in the swimming pool and they built some other pools.
And they, the guests could swim with dolphins.
They were advertising dolphin assisted therapies.
They were getting a lot of families from Russia
with autistic kids paying huge money to swim with the dolphins.
And it got sold and the new,
and it's been going, it's always been a horrible place,
but it's recently went really downhill.
And so forestry department called us and said,
look, we're going to shut these guys down.
We, either you guys take the dolphins
or we'll move them to another facility.
We didn't, I didn't have anywhere to take them.
So I literally, we went, we confiscated two of the dolphins.
We put them in a swim with place
and we rented some of their pens with the agreement that
we're just going to keep them there for like two weeks.
You can't, you just feed them.
Do not let people swim with them.
These, you know, these are our dolphins.
We're going to rent your pens.
And in two weeks, I built a facility up in North Bali.
And we've now moved the two dolphins
that were still at the hotel
and the two dolphins we had originally confiscated
are now in that facility.
And that facility is going to be,
we're all dolphins now when they're confiscated, we'll go there.
And we determine there if their candidates to be released,
the ones that can be released,
we would take and fly them to our other facility.
That is an area where they were captured.
So that if they're released, they'll be released there.
The dolphins that can't be released,
like we have one now that we're sure
because he has no, most of his teeth were removed.
And he was in a pool with no filtration.
So he's been almost blind.
And so he's not a candidate.
And he's been, and he's pretty old.
And so he'll live out his life at our facility,
retired and just living life.
He doesn't have to do anything or work for a living or, you know.
So those facilities that you have set up,
those are basically in the ocean, right?
They're just kind of like blocked off from the,
so they can't.
The one that's released facility is in about,
the deepest part is 15 feet.
And so it's actually connected to the bottom.
It's poles that go down into the sand and then has netting.
One that we have now that is the, the retirement center
is in 60 feet of water and it's 45 feet deep.
So it doesn't touch the bottom, it hangs.
Okay.
And the dolphins, the ones that are retired will be there forever.
Now, have you ever seen any kind of problems with these dolphins
when you do release them back into the wild?
Even if they are resident dolphins,
do they ever have any sort of problems like reconnecting
or psychological issues?
Cause I mean, these animals are obviously incredible.
Definitely.
So there's two things, all dolphins in captivity,
any dolphin can be readapted.
And that means getting it out of its concrete chlorinated box
and moving it into a sea pen work and, you know,
the natural rhythms of the sea and not doing shows.
You know, we don't feed, when we feed our dolphins,
it's not at the exact same time every day.
Cause in real life, you're not eating every day at 430.
You're eating, sometimes you're missing a meal.
Sometimes you're eating at 830.
Sometimes so that we mix it up.
So it's more like real life.
And so all dolphins can be moved into a situation
where they're in a natural sea pen.
Those that then we feel are showing interest in the wild
could be moved to that next stage of possibly being released.
And so you're looking for different things like,
you know, I've, we've seen a dolphin before,
like we, we, this one in Argentina we worked with,
or Columbia, sorry.
Stefania, we built a sea pen out in the islands
where she was captured.
We moved her from the tank where she was to the sea pen.
We built this huge sea pen off of the beach.
We used the beach as one side of it and then built three squares.
And she went to one corner and did the same circles
that she did in her, cause she was in a little round pool
that she lived her life in, just going in circles.
And we moved her as massive pen and she just went to one corner,
did circles, and that was it.
And so she was not a candidate to be released because like,
it's like prison.
It's like some dude's got a prison.
And after 40 years walk out, like nothing happened.
And there's other people go to jail for two years
and they lose it and they're not the same person ever again.
And it's, so we do have a protocol for releasing dolphins,
but it's really a case by case basis.
One thing doesn't work for all of them.
It's like, so you want to see things like,
we'll slowly start decreasing the amount of like live fish
we're giving them, the frozen fish that they're so dependent on.
And we'll start catching like we catch live fish
and we put it into a pen that's hanging in their pen
so they can see the live fish that are interested.
They know it's something cause we've got it in a pen.
So it's special and we get them interested
and we'll start taking those fish and throwing them.
And hopefully you'll see the dolphins at first.
Maybe, maybe they're not eating them,
but they're just having fun catching them.
And so you want to start to see that kind of stuff
where some dolphins just aren't interested
and so they're not going to be candidates.
Right.
You know, maybe if wild dolphins come near,
are they curious?
Are they ignoring it?
Or are they seems like they're sending signals out?
Like, so you're starting to look for those signs.
Okay.
And then as you get, you know,
once you remove them from where we are now,
to like the release facility there,
there were more like observing them through a blind.
So we'll set up like a wall of palm fronds
where we can see through that they can't see us.
And so we start to break that connection with man
and start to feed them where they can't see us.
And you start to just slow.
And while you're doing that, you're watching it.
Are they moving forward?
Does it seem like they're digging this?
And like, you know, it's obvious.
Some start eating that live fish and boom, right away,
they're like, oh yeah, I remember this.
Like I'm all about this and some aren't.
Oh yeah.
That's amazing.
And how many, how many dolphins would you estimate
that you guys release on a yearly basis or?
Not on a yearly basis because, you know,
there was a period where we did a bunch,
like maybe in the nineties and then it stopped and then
like we just helped, they just did a release in South Korea.
And my dad went there a couple of times
and they just basically followed his protocol
and we just talked to them all the time.
But including those that was like six dolphins,
I would say maybe 20 to 25.
We've been involved with one way or another.
Wow, that's amazing.
So what's it going to take, man?
What do you think is the next thing that's going to really kind of kind of?
Dolphins make more money in captivity than any other animal.
So the threat is bigger.
You know, the pushback from the industry is a lot bigger
because there have been elephant sanctuaries
for God knows how long, 30 years.
There's even more so than orcas like Shamu.
I mean, dolphins pulling more than that.
I include orcas, a dolphin, orcas not a whale.
Orcas is the largest member of the dolphin family.
So an orca is actually a tree.
So when I say or dolphins, I'm talking as well.
And I think there's actually only one whale
in the United States in captivity.
I think it's on the East Coast somewhere.
It's just one obscure species.
So basically everything you see in captivity is a dolphin.
So I guess my question was what do you think?
Yes, could be moved in.
All dolphins could be readapted into a sea pen
and retired with dignity.
And every animal has that except for marine mammals.
Every animal has had it for many, many years.
There's been giraffe sanctuaries and primate sanctuaries.
They're all over the world.
They're forever.
Dog, cat, everything, every animal except for dolphin.
Because dolphin in the right place
will make more money than any other animal.
So what do you think it's going to take
to kind of change this cultural thing
that we have going on in the world?
I mean, obviously it's a huge economic lift.
I'll tell you what.
Well, we'll see what happens after this virus.
I think we're going to live in a different world.
Like right now, there's not one dolphinarium open
anywhere in the world.
Right now, there is not one dolphinarium open.
And how long can they hold?
You're going to see half the restaurants in your town
are going to be gone.
Places you grew up eating at are going to be gone forever.
Your movie theater is probably after this.
There probably won't be an AMC movie theater anymore.
Like things are going to be gone.
It's going to change things a lot.
And I think half of the dolphinariums
won't make it through this.
Easily half of them won't make it.
Sea world stock right now is in the gutter.
Like how many months of this can they,
how many months can they not be open before?
Is that something that you guys have talked about?
Have you guys have you guys to have discussions about?
In Indonesia, I've just doubled the size
of my facility in the past 30 days.
I'm ready.
All right.
My staff is ready.
Any place that closes, we're ready to take all their doll.
I can take every dolphin right now in Indonesia.
We're ready to go.
So you guys are kind of anticipating
that this is going to happen to these?
Absolutely.
And we replicate what we've built in Bali.
That can be replicated in Mexico.
It can be, we're going to see places closing left and right.
Wow, man.
That is...
Sent them to keep captive dolphins.
They eat a lot of fish every day.
And you got to have a big staff.
We have a full-time veterinarian.
Like most facilities don't have a full-time vet.
They have a guy that comes once every few months.
Like it's not cheap to have all that.
Like how long can they hang on?
Yeah.
No, it's very interesting how there's kind of like this
weird silver lining in this whole virus thing.
How it's changing.
It's turning around the environment with pollution
as far as pollution goes.
Water pollution, air pollution.
And then now this with animal captivity,
obviously people can't be going to zoos or aquariums.
People change our entire relationship with animals.
That would be a benefit if it came out of it.
Because the whole thing was started by eating animals.
And every animal place right now, they're not open.
How long can they do that for?
And then when...
It's not like the country's not going to open up like Thursday
and it's back open.
We're all getting used to this.
Like you think you're going to shake someone's hand
ever again?
Ever again.
You think that's going to change?
Like there's things that are just done.
When and if the economy, I mean, I'm going to say when
the economy does start to come back.
I don't think...
I mean, it's safe to say that zoos and aquariums
are not going to be the first place people go to.
No, nightclubs, movie theaters, zoos, no.
These are the last places anyone's going to.
Right, exactly.
And so what are they going to do?
Like, you know, I totally anticipate like them removing
every other seat on an airplane and doubling the price of tickets.
Like I'm anticipating that's when the air travel will get
more exclusive.
But like, can they afford to only let half the amount of
people into SeaWorld and charge twice as much?
Probably no one's going to pay $200 to get a SeaWorld.
Like, you know, I just don't see that model working.
And like, you know, it was stupid.
They had their chance.
Like when Blackfish came out around that same time,
there was also a big push against Ringling Brothers
Circus and the elephants.
And so they finally threw in the towel and said,
we're getting rid of the elephants.
And then a year later, after 180 years in business,
they were out of business.
Like, it's just in SeaWorld didn't see the writing on the wall.
They doubled down on animals and captivity,
where they should have been backing off.
Because you go to SeaWorld, half of it is roller coasters.
And roller coasters where you wear VR goggles.
Like they have such an opportunity to do such an amazing thing.
They can have a fucking theater that holds 200 people
with one guy hitting a green button and a red button
to start the show.
And that's the only cost after they spend a million bucks
making the VR film.
And they'll have the most unbelievable experience in the world.
Instead, they've got to have dolphins.
And they got dolphins, they got us.
They got problems.
They got people protesting.
They've got controversy.
They've got overhead.
What do these people say that run these places?
What do they say?
What is their response to you?
Like, what would they say to you right now?
Things like that is corporate.
Like, of course, like, you know,
the people that are working day to day with the animals
are well-meaning people.
Like, you know, they think, well, if I quit my job as a trainer,
who's going to take as good care of the dolphin,
they all want the best care.
It's the corporate heads, you know.
Of course.
You look on the bottom of SeaWorld's website,
it's called the SeaWorld Entertainment Corporation.
They're not an educational,
they're an entertainment corporation, point blank.
And so it's just...
So what would those corporate figures at the top of SeaWorld
that basically they see you as one of their biggest enemies,
they see you as the people that are trying to take them down,
have you listened to any of them?
Have you had, like, a discussion with any of those people?
Have you listened to them respond to movies like The Cove
or respond to movies like Blackfish?
Do you know what they're...
Well, like, they denied.
In fact, there's a massive lawsuit.
They've lost all their initial hearings where,
you know, the first year after Blackfish came out
and their stock went in the toilet,
they said it was affected by weather on certain dates
or that holiday stuff.
They said, every excuse but Blackfish.
And now all those investors are suing.
Like, that could be the end of SeaWorld
if they win this lawsuit.
Because all the investors are suing that you screwed us.
You lied point blank that it was having no effect
when you were internally freaking out.
Like, you know, I don't get it.
It's just, you know, it's like, without the orcas,
they lose.
The orcas are the draw.
We have a place here.
Miami, Sequoia, Illinois, Miami.
They have Lolita.
The day Lolita dies and is gone, like,
they're closed to that.
They're done two months later.
That is what keeps that place going.
And so...
It's just a matter of time.
Yeah, it's just money.
That's all that you're saying.
Like, why?
It's just, why do they have to keep going?
It's money.
But I think they would make just as much money
as the theme park that was aquatic theme
and had used virtual reality at 3D
and all the different things we have available
and augmented reality.
You could do something amazing.
Amazing.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I really appreciate your time doing this, man.
I've learned a lot.
And if people want to know more,
they can go check out our website.
I hope you'll put a link.
Dolphin Project.
Yeah, yeah.
Tell me all your social media links
and what your websites are so people can listen to...
Go find them and I'll also link them below.
Go to Dolphinproject.com and on Instagram and Twitter and Twitch.
We're at Dolphin Underscore Project.
All of our accounts on all our social media platforms
are all verified, so you'll know that it's us.
You guys update the website almost monthly or weekly
on the projects you guys are working on
and where you guys are traveling.
Oh, yeah.
It's updated constantly and we're writing...
We have a full-time staff that's writing new blogs
and I think social media posts goes out every four hours,
24 hours a day.
We're very active in social media
and we're live-streaming all the time.
There's tons of stuff people can do on the website.
It just depends on their time and involvement.
But the most simplistic thing people can do
is just don't buy a ticket to a dolphin show.
And as simplistic and easy as that sounds,
it's all driven by supply and demand.
And if you don't buy any more tickets to dolphin shows,
you don't go on cruises that have dolphins,
you don't stay in a hotel that's got dolphins,
they'll go out of business and they'll get the mess.
That's the only thing, the way they get the message.
Corporate America, corporate anyone.
Yeah, I think it's definitely starting to...
I think the scale is starting to tip now
and people are definitely starting to realize that
more and more as people like yourself and your father.
And there's lots of other people that are very vocal about it
and talk about it on shows like this.
Literally 20 years ago, it would be us by ourselves
in front of the aquarium.
Now, we host an event called Empty the Tanks.
We're simultaneously not this year,
but every year previous, like simultaneously,
we protest like 170 different facilities around the world
at the same day, at the same time.
Now it's become this giant groundswell movement.
And so we just helped to guide that movement.
Now it's kind of changed our work a little bit.
That's incredible, man.
Well, thanks again.
And hopefully we can do this again in the future.
Appreciate it, really enjoyed it.
