Hey, thanks for having me. You live in Naples, right? Yeah. Yeah. What's it been like down
there since the hurricane hit? Yeah. Yeah. It's you know, it's funny right now in East
Naples there. We're doing all this cleanup. We're doing a lot of stripping houses out
getting all the water out and stuff like that. But down in Gulfshore, which is the, you know,
more of a stab, more richer part. I seen it today. It was a wreck yesterday. Yeah. Yeah,
I was down there working and they're not so quick to clean it up. It's almost like they're
cleaning the the poorer parts up first this time. Yeah. That's that's the first time that's ever
happened. All I see is the obviously like the pictures and videos on social media and stuff
like that. And I saw like one bridge was completely demolished. And then there was like
all that down there is is Sanibel at my buddy's got a bunch of stores down there. They all wiped
out. He was flying around the helicopter taking pictures. I got a bunch of pictures of it. But
the whole causeway is knocked out. You know, so what was it like driving up here? For people
that are listening, nothing on 75 that I seen. Yeah, but go ahead. So yeah, I was gonna say
people that are listening. Dan lives in Naples, which is we're in St. Pete right now. So he lives
what you live like three hours directly south of us. Yeah, which is almost exactly where
Hurricane Ian made landfall. Yeah. Yeah, Fort Myers where it came in and we got we got hit
with the flooding real bad, like quick. My sister and my nephew got wiped out completely.
There was like five feet of water in their place in no time like they were calling me saying come
over we got power and I'm down down Naples. I'm right on the beach. It didn't hit around my place.
But the water came in and it came up the whole East Trail was just like all those houses flooded
all those first floor houses five feet of water in like two minutes. So crazy how depending on
which side of the storm you're on the fucking because of the counterclockwise rotation, if you're
south of the storm when it hits land, you're going to get flooded. Yeah, we were north of the
storm when it hit. So all the water got sucked out of the bay dropped on us. It was the opposite.
Crazy. That's how Irma went out. Yeah, when Irma hit me and the guy we were just talking about
earlier, we were on Gulf Shore and the surge came in and it died right down because of a cold
front and it just came in five feet real quick, but it went right back out. But before that water
came in, the Gulf went out a mile. You can walk like a mile out. Yeah. And he got caught on a
newscast or whatever he was down there and and he was just walking around looking at the muck
of all the the Gulf being dried out. It was a good mile out. You can walk out in the in the TV
reporter says to him, Hey, is low tide usually like this? He goes, that ain't low tide. I don't
know what's going on, but you can never walk that far out on dry land. You know, I mean muck like,
you know, sand all pulled back with the water. Irma was one of the craziest storms I've ever
been through around here. We were terrified to hear like what it was, what was going to happen.
Everyone was and then, you know, it turned the last minute, I feel like. Yeah. And when and
because it was supposed to hit Tampa directly and it was maybe a couple hours before it just made
a random turn right and when there was three factors that happened, we would have all been
wiped out like three, you know, just flukes, a cold front, some other thing, but it just made
it to where it changed the whole dynamic just enough for, for, you know, for us not to get
wiped out, you know, and this time we got hardly any warning. We thought it was going to hit Tampa
or Fort Myers, you know, north of Fort Myers, they said it was coming in, but we didn't expect
that surge, you know, I didn't see it. I don't watch the news though. That's my fault. But
the news is everything they can just a fear monger. Yeah. Yeah. And it's never accurate. I mean,
yeah, it's never what they say. And if they do get lucky every now and then,
it's, you know, you can just get just as lucky guessing. So the worst thing that happened to
you with Ian was you just got like five feet of flooding real quick. Yeah, I lost a couple
trucks, but yeah, nobody got hurt. I pulled some, some people out of floods and, you know,
some people were stuck down there. And so what is it you do? What were you doing? I have a
moving company. Okay. Yeah. And then I have a semi demo company too. I was doing that first
because when I came out of corrections or whatever, being locked up so long, I really
didn't have any legal ways to make money. So I just started picking stuff up and putting it down
like the, like the, you know, big muscle guy or whatever. I could pick anything up and put it
down. So I started doing that. It just started making more and more money and people just kept
using me. So you're, so what were you doing to help people after the hurricane? You're just like,
like helping people get out of their houses, get out of the floods. Yeah. Yeah. Some of them,
they were okay with drinking and hanging out there, but they were going to die. Yeah. They
were going to die. Yeah. They would have died. And then, you know, my sister, it looked like a
bunch of refugees running up to my car. Really? Yeah. I mean, like you're talking water and,
and one guy went to the hospital with like a bacterial infection from it. Yeah. Yeah. Like a
bum leger. Yeah. And we're cleaning his place out now and he's just a mess, but serious burning.
He couldn't stop burning. And so finally he goes to the hospital and, and yeah, he's got some
serious infection from that muck or what do they call that? Brackish waters. Yeah. Yeah, man. I mean,
fuck, they got really fucked up in that one area, but I keep, I keep thinking like how much, how
many more bullets are we going to be able to dodge? Like, especially right here in St. Pete,
you guys in Naples, like you, you can be just a couple, like 10 to 20 miles away and get away
from kind of like the worst parts of it. Right. When you see like the photos and videos of
like the worst parts of Irma or the worst parts of like even Hurricane Andrew,
like there's whole entire neighborhoods that got just demoed, flattened, totaled.
We're in a brand new prison when Andrew hit and it was brand new and now it's condemned, but
In Miami? Yeah. Yeah, South Florida down, you know, so we got evacuated. We got sent to
Lake Butler, which is not that far from here, I think. We're in the reception center there at
that time when the Hurricane Andrew was coming and they, that place was wiped out. I mean,
Miami was a wreck homestead and all that, right? Yeah. Yeah, dude, it was totaled. Yeah. I heard
you talking to Matt on the other podcast about, you know, how they keep you kind of safe, you know?
Yeah, he was saying that like the safest places to be. Yeah. Unless you're getting flooded.
Yeah, unless you're getting flooded and they shiphole that happened to us too. We got evacuated.
Did they put you guys on con air? No, no, no. You know, the funny thing is though,
I was indicted on some charges I didn't do and they put me on this bus and I was in Clayton
County, Missouri, and I was wanted down in South Florida for triple homicide and an armed robbery.
I didn't do it, but they, they swore I did it and they had people saying I did it. But,
but anyway, I was, I was running and they get me and I'm in the fugitive block on the 8th floor
in Clayton County jail and they come get me and they locked me. I look like
silenced little lambs walking down the street like a, you know, and I get on the bus and this,
this bus when you said the con air thing, that's what they showed. They showed con air lockup.
They had like a grayhound that was restored into a prison bus and we're on this thing for like
weeks and I'm traveling there. I ended up in Cook County in Chicago, all these places. I'm
sitting next to this guy and I go, is everybody on here wanted for murder and armed robbery? And he
goes, I'm wanted for child support. And I was like, what? He gets up, walks away from me, you know,
and, you know, I get down the Naples and, and this is a long time ago, but my daughter's lives in,
in Missouri. And so I was going up there trying to, you know, at the time she was still a kid.
So I got, you know, trying to do legit, trying to do the right thing. I get picked up. It was like,
you know, 500 cops hit on me, you know, they hit me at the place I'm working
and they bring me back down. Like a month later, I get back to Naples and, and I couldn't believe
the whole ride and they take you to all these county jails to park you overnight or, you know,
after so much driving, they have to stop at a county jail. Process you. Yeah, you kind of sit
in, you know, no man's land and you don't get fully processed there because you're not staying.
But, but so I go to all these different county jail. I get back to Naples and,
and, but the whole way what was funny was they're showing all these breakout movies, like everything,
like they're trying to give you ideas or something, you know, they got, you ever see the
Sylvester Stallone lockup or they're in and out breaking out of prison, Conair, you know,
and it was like, I was like, what are they trying to do here? They're trying to encourage you to,
you know, try some stupid, you know, escape move because you're, you know, I wonder why they do
that. I don't know the people, they must have been minimum wage workers that were driving these
things because there was a guy and a girl, they were fighting with each other and it was, it was
like a, like, this is what we got here. And it was just, I don't know. So you got actually charged
with this homicide? Yeah, I got, well, yeah, I was, well, what they do is you, you, they get probable
cause, they lock you up. And I don't know if they do this everywhere, but in Florida, they lock me
up a lot first and found out if I was guilty later. And so this is what happened to me. I got,
they had enough people saying they witnessed me being there or me being around there or whatever.
And they had enough probable cause to arrest me and indict me on it. It didn't have enough
to get me because an armed robbery, which I did do, I robbed this drug dealer. I didn't know you
can get arrested for that. So I robbed this guy and you know, he's not a very nice person. So I
didn't have a problem with it. And at the time, and I took his stuff and he called the cops on me
and told them, you know, and, and so I couldn't believe it. But so I get there and they're like,
look, if you give us a three lie detector test, do a hair and blood sample, take a hair and a swab
and prove you didn't do these murders and we'll let you go on this armed robbery, which I know
I did do. And I could have got screwed right there. They could have got me for 40 years or something.
And I already had a priors and everything else. So I was like, sure, you know, let me get my
lawyer down here. And, you know, I couldn't afford a lawyer on these charges, but I had a friend that
was a lawyer and he's always looked out for me. So he came down and made it all official. I only
failed one question. I had nothing to do with this. But they slid in it. They slid it in there. And
it wasn't, you know, as a very generic, didn't make me look too good. But I beat the, I beat the
whole thing. So I ended up walking out on that. So and that's happened quite a bit. Like, I think,
I don't think they do very good police work. You know what I mean? I think they do a lot of,
you know, they, they got like a force there and they don't have a lot of people looking in the
stuff. So they just kind of lock up who they think did it and hope they tell them themselves.
Somebody tells on you or something. It's getting better now. Like the more it was very,
in the dark ages down there when I first moved there, like 30, something years ago. And I got
in so much trouble so quick. But yeah, so let's let people know like how this whole journey started
for you. You, I believe the story is you got sentenced to five years in prison at the age of
15. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. My first, how did that, how did that happen? I got into a fight
with a cop and I was coming out of, you know, someone's house at late at night.
Kind of snuck out of her house and I was walking home and they said I was, they rolled up on me
and said I was loitering and prowling. And I said, I, you know, I don't know what that is,
but I'm going home. So this is the quickest route to my house. You know, I live here. She lives here.
They wanted to call and her dad was, you know, Spanish and wasn't going to understand nothing.
He's just going to know I was there late at night. So I just said, ah, well,
it's none of your business. I'm going home and I walked away and, uh, and he horse called me,
like pulled my shirt back, like by my neck real hard. And, um, I wasn't really thinking. I just
kind of spun and hit him and I cracked his jaw and, uh, yeah, I ended up having to pay his hospital
bills and everything. You got some hammers for fists. And I boxed a little bit and I was just
quick with my hand. I've always been real quick. I don't look quick because I'm, you know, huge,
but, uh, but I just always been real quick. My dad was quick and, uh, it's just, uh, genetic or
whatever. So I got in more trouble than I, than I, you know, signed up for. And so I just ran. I
took off home. They were at my house. They came deep, you know, and then the judge kind of made a,
um, at the time single single moms with their kids was not really something they wanted down
there in Naples, Florida. And, uh, and, uh, not to make, you know, excuses, you know, you hit a
cop, you should go to jail, but I kind of got made an example out of, you know, I was a big kid,
about 315 pounds at that time, six, four in my ninth great year. And, um, so, you know, the,
the judge didn't have any kind of, you know, I just told the truth. I said, look, this was a fight
and you know, I know I'm wrong, but we can work this out. And he's like, yeah, uh,
five and a half years. Good luck, son. He set me on my way and that was it.
And that seems insane. Even for punching a cop. Right. I understand it's way worse if it's a,
if you're assaulting a police officer, but just like a punch. Yeah. Yeah. They're very strict
about that down there. Like you can't even get in a fist fight without catching a battery charge.
Like that's probably normal now, but where I grew up in Jersey, I mean a fist fight,
you know, it was just a fight. Even if a cop challenged you in a fight and, you know, and
they said, you know, I'll put the gun down, put the badge down, they fight you. It was,
it was a total different thing where I was from than where I moved into. That's wild. Yeah. Yeah,
it was pretty wild. By the time I called you from originally, yeah, I was born in Camden
and I was raised in Newark in Jersey, Jersey. Right. Yeah. And then I moved to Florida though
when I was 14, I think I had like one good year there and then I went to prison. Yeah,
I won all right year. I did good in sports, but I couldn't concentrate in high school.
Sports was the only outlet I had. So this is an interesting question.
In your, if you could summarize it, what is the difference between Jersey and Florida?
Oh, man.
If I could summarize it, well, not all of Florida, but not necessarily, not necessarily like the
geography or the nature, but the people, the people. Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
What is the difference in the people? I found my kind of people that I grew up with that I'm
comfortable with in Miami, like inner cities. And I found that this is a nice place to live,
if you know how to live there. Naples or St. Pete. I don't, St. Pete actually just got a rough.
Yeah. A lot of people don't know about it here, but I was caught up here one time at a concert
or whatever. One dude got slammed on his head and another guy got shot. I mean, this place gets
off to change it. South St. Pete gets pretty new. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Another friend of mine got
stabbed at a cannibal corpse concert. What? They stabbed him in the lung. Yeah. What? Yeah, my
buddy Steve. A cannibal corpse concert? Yeah. He was just mashing and next to you know,
somebody stuck him, you know. I've been to a few cannibal corpse concerts. Yeah. They get off the
chain, but a lot of people think, oh, Tampa St. Pete's nice area. Same thing with Naples and
Fort Myers. We got tons of unresolved murders and tons of them that they just don't publicize. And
I don't know. Maybe I shouldn't say that because it's nice there, but that's the truth. You know
what I mean? And they just don't because what do they call that? The tourists. Yeah, tourists. Yeah,
they don't want to freak everybody out. Miami, too. Miami's off the chain. I mean,
Miami's not even really Florida. No, Miami's a whole different country. Yeah, some whole
different world. I lived there for a couple years, too, but not one good day. Not one. I mean, I had
great days, but not one productive. Miami to me is like Vegas. Like the best two days there,
the day you get there and day you leave. Yeah. Now it is. Yeah. I had a lot of good times. I had
some good Cubans that were good friends of mine to this day, or, you know, the ones that are alive,
but, but they were thorough people. What years were you living in Miami? Oh, see 90 in the 90s,
mid 90s, 96. All that time was kind of a blur. I was out of my mind. Yeah. Yeah. The early 90s.
I've seen some documentaries about Miami in the 90s and the 80s. Yeah, I was in prison there in
the 90s, early 90s. And all those guys are coming in there from the worst of the, you know,
it just from the worst parts of society, you know. So what was your early childhood like
in New Jersey? And how did that shape you? That's a good question. So I reacted. It was about eight
years old when I, when I identified a lot of pressure to, to live up to something, you know what
I mean? I felt like there was a lot of pressure. I had to live up to something. I didn't know what it
was, you know, and nobody gave me direction or what were your parents like? Both good people.
My dad was a chemist, always working. My mother was always cooking. You know, she had a place in
Montclair called the Gourmet Pantry and, you know, good parents, but no, no real time with four kids
to like, and we had a lot of like other kids living in our home too, because my mom would
take in any, you know, sag case or anything like that. So everybody just kind of assumed I should
know what I'm doing. And I had to act like I knew what I was doing. I felt like I did. I didn't know
how to say 104. So yeah, 104. I'm the third born, I guess. Second, my little brother's the baby and
he's like 44 now. But um, but yeah, I always kind of had to know what I was doing. I had no clue.
Like really, I was a slow learner. I didn't get nothing. Like I didn't understand nothing. People
gave me like my mother one time when I came in drunk, I felt through the door and I was a young
kid. I was trying to impress this girl, ended up puking in her face and she ended up helping me to
the door and I fell down and she's like, you're just like your father. And I was like, oh, cool. I
like my dad went right over my head. Like, and you would think I was some sarcastic, you know,
but really I meant it at the time. I didn't know nothing, you know, that's funny. Yeah. And nobody
taught me nothing. Like I had to learn all this stuff all those years in prison. I read a lot
and tried to figure things out. But there was no real, you know, there was people that tried
to talk to me like they had me go to a shrink in an anger management school when I was a kid in
Wayne, New Jersey. I threw a chair and hit this teacher because she humiliated me. And I just whipped
the chair and I hit her. I didn't mean to hit her. I was just angry. And so they sent me to an anger
management school and Bobby Ches used to come there and they had this goat and they taught me how
to box. And now I'm an angry kid who can fight real shit. So it was just, you know, it just got
worse and worse. They sent me to a therapist. And when I got to the therapist, it was so
calm there, he'd have me punching a heavy bag. I was like, yeah, I'm good, you know. And then
when I had to go to my house, it was like, sometimes people be breaking in the window. Some weird
person will be sleeping in my room. You know, there was nothing but like trauma going on around me.
Somebody's trying to steal a car. You know, they're big on stealing cars there. And,
you know, you don't know somebody to come in and cut your throat. You feel like you just
fill a fear. And, and, and so, you know, when I got to these places that I could have got help,
if I knew how to be honest about, because they'd say, how are you doing right now? Right now,
I'm great. I'm in this office. I'm right here with you. This is safe. You know, I got a punching
bag here. I don't need nothing else. I'm good. But then I couldn't talk about what wasn't in this
moment. You know, and so if you ask me if I'm fine right now, yeah, I'm fine. You know, I couldn't
talk about yesterday or whatever, because I don't want to relive that shit. And I don't know if
talking about it's going to bring it up again. So like you're afraid to
full of fear relive the past or think about the future. Yeah, or piss on a good moment. You know
what I mean? This is a good moment. Why would I want to bring that shit up? Not knowing because I
couldn't trust where they were going. I didn't see the point in something. So I won't do it.
You know what I mean? And you couldn't get me to do it. And if you kept trying to pry, you'd
find out real quick not to do that. You so it looked like I was confident. But all the while,
I'm batting off the only things that can help me because it's not my thinking. So it was a real,
real trap. You know, so when prison went up around me, I was just like,
it doesn't make any difference. I've been in prison all my life. You know, so so the walls
go up around me. But I was in prison my whole life. I have to be in this moment because,
you know, if I bring any of my real life into this, it's going to suck, you know, right? Yeah.
So how did how would you say that growing up at least until you were what eight years old and
growing up in Jersey? How did that sort of like mold you or hardwire you? A lot of ways. I left
there when I was 14. When I was 11, I was working for these gangsters out of Hoboken. And they were
at this time they were doing legit, you know, rubbish removal. But their but their whole
presence was kind of illegal. Just their whole aura, you know, just said, don't mess with these guys.
So I would go in and do these rubbish removal jobs. I was a big kid at that time. I was like 11.
I was six, two, two, 20. And I'm throwing like furnaces on the truck. I'm having a great time
because I'm making good money. He started me out 60 a day cash. And then he goes up by your lunch.
And I said, All right. And then I ate like 40 dogs, 40 hot dogs. The first day he goes,
I'll give you 100 bucks a day. You buy your own fucking lunch. I was like, Oh, I got a raise.
And it went right over my head that it was too much food. You know what I mean? Right? I was just
like, I must have did a great job. Give me $40 raise in one day. Because I got I remember it
was Archie's on or JJ's on on down in Newark. And I go, Yeah, give me 20 cheese dogs, 20 chili
dogs. You know, these are like one bite to buy a dog, 30 water dogs, you know. But it was like
Christmas for me because my mom, she only cooked healthy shit. And I wasn't allowed to drink Pepsi
or have, you know, toy guns or nothing. They were they were a little strict when they were around.
You know what I mean? Your parents were? Yeah, yeah, they would always steal. You know, I be
on my own. My mother was they became Jehovah's Witnesses. No shit. Yeah, the only the only
kind of Jehovah's Witnesses I've ever seen were them and another family. And the other family
didn't seem judgmental. They're very nice. But our family seemed like they had to tell everybody
how to live. And we didn't know how to live. So it was pretty comical. But but they had this thing
where you couldn't have a replication of a pistol or anything like that. They're not allowed to
fight in wars or none of that. So they had an effect on you at all. Oh, big time. Because it
made me I love pistols. I love guns. I only reason I think I love guns is because I didn't
have any toy ones. So I bought a real one. I was like, yeah, yeah, I was like, I'm hiding this
because they would break them right in the right in the and it was like heartbreaking to me because
I wanted to play with it. And so anyway, I got this job just so I can have money to do my own
thing a little bit because I as much as it seems crazy, I didn't know how to do anything. But I
wanted to do everything. You know, and I didn't let anybody else tell me how to do anything. So
a lot of it was my fault or my what you said it shaped me into a very defeating way of living.
Because I couldn't say you're real good at you're good at podcasts. If I said, hey, I want to do a
podcast. But don't tell me anything. I'm just gonna figure it all out. And you go and give me some
good insight. And I'm like, and I shoot that down. That's kind of what I did with life. You know what
I mean? I'd ask how to do this thing. Right. Then I'd shoot down the messenger, and I'd come up
with some crazy shit that told me it was the best way to go. Well, that I don't think that's a bad
thing. I feel like a lot of people fail because in life in all kinds in all different aspects,
because they think too much about the future or the past. Yeah. And I feel like one of the like
the craziest example of this would be I don't know if you saw it if you're a basketball fan,
but the Michael Jordan documentary that came out on Netflix, I think parts of it. Yeah,
it's I forgot what it's called last dance. Yeah. Yeah. One of the biggest takeaways from that was
he talks about like not thinking about anything when you're playing basketball and you're doing
everything you obviously prepare. But when you're doing it, you're living in that moment. And that's
how you achieve your the fullest potential you possibly can is just staying in that moment,
not worrying about the future, not worrying about the past. That's I believe that's the best way to
live. The problem is when you start out from a place that's not whole. Let's say you had a lot
of demons to me. Yeah, he does. And that's the problem. Like you might think he's a success.
And he is in his own right. He's, you know, way more successful than probably anybody. But
there's this success that I found is more important. It's the success of like going inside
and either living above those demons or or or or beating them. So so I had ones and the guys that
were the guys that were influencing me showed me that power overrode happen to be you're always
right. You could always be right. And that's no way to learn. So so you got elements like the
obsession of what you're into being all into it. I think that is the best way to do it if you're
into something like I told, like I said to Julian, like when I'm here with you, you're the most
important person I'm talking to because you're the only person that I can transmit and receive with.
So I take that very serious and you know, a lot of the the things I I deal with people with is
that kind of seriousness, like they're gonna they're gonna die if they don't do something about
these problems. Some of them, you know, so so in Jordan's case, and in a lot of cases, people
don't have to beat their demons. They they they get enough success everywhere else. But if you're
not a success to yourself, you're not living like I don't think you're living. And he might be he
might have conquered enough. And, you know, it looks like he's a well rounded great guy.
But the the guys on death row that I learned this serious lesson that it's just growing. It's just
a concept that when you're when you're close to death, you think about a couple things. And one
of them was, did you live your potential or did you help others live to theirs? And how you treated
everybody? Well, what I didn't know when that concept was introduced into my head through
through experiences, that that's the wholeness I need. It might not be what everybody's interested
in. But a legacy or or contributing to the whole is something I I feel is my greatest call.
You know what I mean? And if I'm not living true to that, it doesn't matter how much money I get,
how much success I get, according to other people, I'll always feel like a failure inside.
You know what I mean? And and I could, I can get to where it don't matter what you do to me.
If that's not in question, nothing else matters. Like the pain doesn't hurt. I can deal with whatever.
So that's my obsession. His might have been basketball or whatever. And I don't think anybody's
is better or worse than anybody else's. It's all about, do you like, do you like living your
potential or do you like people thinking you're living to your potential? And that and you have
that choice? Right? Yeah. What? At what point? So when you okay, going going back to your story
when you were you were 15, you broke the cop's jaw, you got sentenced to five years in prison.
And you're 15 years old. So you're essentially like living out the most important developmental
years of your childhood in prison. What was that like? Well, yeah, you manufacture and play with
things in your head that you're supposed to be experiencing. But you got to live in your head
so you can only think about the things you're supposed to be growing in your fundamental
growth. So you're saying when you said when you say living in your head, do you mean by that like
you're always being forced to think about the past or the future? No, what I mean is like,
so your fundamental growth is physical, mental, all these things. Right. So you get a growth spurt.
So most people out here would just experience their growth growth spurt. Me, I would read a book
differently, or I would work out differently, or I would come up with some new idea differently
than being in a place where you know, people are just living their lives. I'm in a place where you're
being told stuff and there's violence and there's, you know, you got to distract yourself, not not
experience life, you got to kind of distract yourself from the lack of life. Does that make sense?
Yeah. Wow. Yeah. So are you the youngest kid in there? And then at that time, I was the youngest
in adult prison because I got when I got the state, I was classified because of my size.
They disregarded the youthful offender. And so I ended up in which was better because kids my age
were just off the chain. They were, you know, doing a lot of dumb stuff. I would have been,
I probably would have been a lot worse off. I don't know. In some sense, I would have been worse
off. In some sense, I would have been better off. But I didn't like, I like reading, working out,
you know, so it was fine for me. I had a job collecting in there because my mom didn't have
a lot of money. People didn't send me nothing. So, you know, I collected for guys. It was easy.
I was kind of like camp for me, you know. Yeah, it seems like most people I've talked to,
spent quite a long time in prison. They found some sort of ways they learned to find a way
to make themselves valuable to increase value, whether it be like learning law and like helping
people with their cases. Matt's example was learned how to tell stories and write people's
stories, made people, you know. There's some talented people. I know guys that can slam dunk
from the foul line. I know guys that can create a picture that's more lifelike than the real thing.
You know what I mean? You got nothing but time to work on something. It's something,
it's out of all the negative things about the prison system. It seems like it finds some of
the best aspects you're able to discover within yourself. That's the whole point of jail. Yeah.
When you have all that time to just reflect, right, and you have these boundaries you're
living within, it seems like something, there's some sort of magic that happens. That's exactly why,
you know, prison and jail was created. That was the good idea to let you sit
what yourself and say, is this the way you want to live or not? Now, the problem is
going back to distractions. They thought, oh, let's introduce education. I got my GED in there and
stuff. It's all distractions. My last bid where there was no correction deemed necessary was the
only prison bid where I changed. Really? Yeah. Yeah, because, and I wish it would have been the
first one, but I wouldn't have known it. I would have blew it up, you know, but at that time I was
ready to change and I had a guy right in me that was helping me read certain things and redirect
my thought processes. It was a really good guy. I met through a, through the craziest person I
ever knew, but he always had a good heart for me and he introduced me to this one guy and this guy
ended up, you know, giving me concepts that are still coming alive today. He's been dead for
10 years or so. You met him on your last prison stint? No, no, no, no. I met him before I went
to his last prison stint. I was trying to do the right thing for a minute. Not on purpose. Somebody
tricked me. When you were out. Yeah. Yeah. So somebody tricked me into going to a detox. I went
in this detox and this guy came in and I thought he was a clown. He was doing good things for
good people and I thought he was weirdo, but I ended up getting to know him and I ended up
staying on his food time for like six months because he had such interest. He was speaking to
the inside of me without me having to know he's doing it, like without me having to say it.
You know what I mean? He was pulling stuff out of me and talking in a way that he knew
where I was coming from and all I had to do was listen and I was like, huh. And then so he did
this about that and he did this about that and it was a worth issue and there was this.
He said all the things about his stuff. I got to listen to it and start practicing things
and then I got to see it differently. And the guy stuck with me up until his last breath.
You know, where was this? This was in Fort Myers and Fort Myers. Yeah. And right before
my last prison bit. So 2004 maybe. Yeah, I met them. Yeah. And then I was with him for a while
doing good and you know, I went off on my own thinking again and well, I started using drugs
again and I went to prison, but he never gave up on me. He always wrote me and when he was dying,
I came out of prison. I was like, as long as I got him and my mom, I'm good. That's all I need.
You know what I mean? And both of them started dying of cancer like immediately. Yeah. So I'm
going to hospice back to her house, back to hospice up in Fort Myers. And yeah, I was like, wow,
there is a God. He's got a weird sense of humor. Right. That's the truth. Yeah. These two were
keeping me out of trouble and the only two that can do it. And and yeah, they both started dying
at the same time, but he did get across to me all his experience and it's still it's still
even this, this is what it led to like coming here and talking to people. I would never do this.
You know what I mean? I was isolated and I liked it. You know, I didn't like it. I just didn't like
the react, the the feelings you get from dealing with people. Yeah. That's interesting. Yeah. So
I'd much rather do a life sense or death sense. I didn't care. Then then have to deal with all
the uncontrollable very variables of dealing with people. You never know how they're going to act.
You know, I like controlled environments. You somewhat knew what was going to happen. It was
always going to be shitty. It's a control thing, huh? It's a control thing. I try to control how
I feel. The good ones I would chase, you know, till they were dead. And then the bad ones I would
avoid, you know, didn't matter how they avoid them. And when you build a life like that, you become
deranged, you know, right? Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah, I want to get to that because I'm sure
there's a lot of insight that you can provide from the people that you've met. Yeah. So
let's go back to you. You're doing five years. You started at 15 and you and you spend five years
of prison from 50 to 20. Well, I got sentenced to five and a half. Okay. And then I broke a guards
jaw in there. Jesus Christ. Perfect. Yeah. Another yeah. So I ended up doing two more and then
that wasn't that bad. He was kind of at fault too. Well, at that time, it was always somebody
else's fault. I didn't do it. It wasn't me. In retrospect, you know, you're supposed to have
a timeline when they wake you up. They're not supposed to touch you. And I might have got around
the timeline a little bit and hit them anyway, just because I didn't like them. And and at that
time, I was like, nah, you woke me up. I didn't know what I was doing. I was just swinging.
So in retrospect, I got what I deserved, you know, somewhat, you know what I mean? Some of
this stuff is just crazy. But you know, because I've been like I said, I've been in question and
died on murders. I didn't kill nobody, you know what I mean? But I hung around people that were
capable of these things, you know, and I was always around them, mainly because they made me look
kind of sane, you know what I mean? And then we became friends and stuff. But they made me feel
okay with my fucked upness for the lack of a better term, you know, because that's all you can
hang out with to make yourself feel better. Right. So how old were you when you got out the first
time? 22. You were 22. Yeah. And what did you start doing when you got out?
Well, I had a resentment against cops. So I played semi pro ball. I tripped on acid a lot
because he couldn't do drugs. And yeah, and then I would play play football tripping on acid. I
got invited. I got invited to come play for the Giants, which was my childhood team. And then I
got in more trouble. Every time I was about to do something positive, which in retrospect,
like in hindsight, it's good that I didn't get no resources, because I would have been a lot more
dangerous than what I became. And if they would have put me in the NFL or something, I don't know
what kind of damage I would have did, but it would have been a lot if they hid my fear, the way I
hid my fear on a bigger scale, I would have caused a lot of damage. That's something I think about
a lot. Like, could you imagine, hypothetically, if you would have been, that was the person you
were. And now all of a sudden, you're surrounded by people just enabling you, telling you, yes,
you're the best. And on top of that, handing you millions of dollars. That person with unlimited
resources to do whatever the fuck you wanted. It could cause some serious, I know what kind of
trouble I would have caused. I got kicked out of prisons. So I knew, I knew that society wasn't,
I knew they were kind of right about me being a menace, they gave me a menace, kind of right.
Like, I didn't know, because I wasn't malicious, I wasn't trying to hurt nobody, I was just trying
to carry out what I want to do. But I just didn't care about laws or guidelines or rules. And that's
dangerous. You know what I mean? Because if you spread that out, and somebody is malicious, and
they're a part of your crew, now you've just given them a pass to do that. So you're kind of guilty
too. So that's, I didn't look at big picture stuff. I didn't look how it's impacting the whole.
I seem kind of like they're picking on me. You know what I mean? But really, I've helped so many
people now. Some people I won't take on because they're dangerous in nature. You know what I mean?
The way they don't think of the whole. If they're not willing to work on that first,
I won't, I won't take them on because, and what I mean by that is walking them through their fears
and getting them helping them. If they're not willing to acknowledge first that this is dangerous
to the whole. You know what I mean by that? Without being too descriptive, let's say,
you know, somebody wants to get right so they can do what they do. And doing what they do
causes a lot of destruction. I won't help. They want to get right so they can do.
Yeah. They want to, they want to clear ahead to be able to harm people or contribute in something
that doesn't look harmful. It sounds, it could be even legal. And, but to me, I know it harms a
lot of people personally. And I go on experience. I don't go on what theories about it or nothing.
I go on what I, you know, can see and, and know from experience that that is a dangerous thing.
Okay. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. And I know it because I've seen the worst cases of it.
You know what I mean? I've seen the worst. You've seen everybody. Yeah. I've seen every kind of
person there is not to say one's the same as the other. But if this thing leads to destruction
50,000 times, I'm not helping you get right to do this thing. Right. Whatever it is. You know what
I mean? So yeah, it's hard to do, right? Like, how do you, how do you figure out which people
can be helped and which people can't be helped? Like when you look at people and you see them
going on the wrong, if they're on like a fucking pattern of destruction, either self-destruction
or destroying everything around them, like how do you know, like, can this person be taken off
this path? Or are they unhelpable? Oh, nobody's nobody's beyond help. And I know that because
they deem me that. And, and it's just not true. Nobody is. But if the person's not willing,
so here's the thing, I identify with many, many people. I've been, I've experienced many of those
beginnings, knew where they were going. So when I talk to them, they say, you've had these same
thoughts and you didn't do it. Look at all the money you can make or something like that. I say,
well, this is the reason. And then they trust me. And then they start to work on that first.
Now, if they say, I hear you, and they know I'm talking the truth when I speak to them,
they feel it. They know it's true. But I have to let them go for a while. It takes a year or two
to be get up the courage to work on that thing first. Then they come back to me. And the whole
time I don't reject anybody, I always help everybody. But I focus on what the real problem is that I
see. Because I only know my experience. I know where that's going. Now I have been accused of
being too intense or so like playing around like say somebody's horse playing, I see people get
gutted over horseplay, just joking around or being disrespectful, seeing guys get cut up.
That doesn't happen all the time out here. But in my mind, it goes that intense sometimes. Not
so much now as when I first came out. But I'd be like, Oh, that clown around right there is going
to get you killed. And I've seen, you know, I've seen it happen. But it's not so intense. But
eventually, if you keep being disrespectful and you don't check the temperature, you don't know
how people are doing. You just come in playing around and that dude, you don't know if his mom
just died or you're not checking the temperature at all. You're just thoughtless. You're probably
going to get punched in the face a lot. You know what I mean? And so I know how to read the room.
Yeah, read the room. Yeah. Yeah. But they go in oblivious like nobody could be
you know, having a bad day and just take it out on you because you were a clown. Right. So I've
been too intense in the past. And I've learned to light up on that. But me personally, I feel
like you should always check the temperature of a person. If they seem like they're down, find out
first. Right. I'll just play with them. You know, yeah, there's also, you know, patterns in people
that they can't figure life out or they're on like a destructive path, either they're repeating a
destructive pattern. And they finally get back on track, they start to get, you know, they start to
get on the right path, they achieve some success. And then they intentionally sabotage it. Yeah,
like they sabotage themselves on purpose. Like everything's going fucking great. You're on a
great trajectory. Right. And then. Well, it's going great according to the person looking at them.
Right. That's what it right. That's a big difference. That's what I was talking about.
Like you see your friend like, Oh, this guy, he's doing great. He's making money. He's fucking finally
got his own place. And then like, then he goes off, drives his car off a fucking bridge. Yeah. I see
it all the time. It's because you're doing what's right by the people saying, like you're going
off reactions to people rather than a heartfelt, I'm doing this for myself kind of, but even though
everybody's benefit from it, if the person is not attached to what they're doing, they're better off
being, you know, in conflict, right, talking their stuff out and saying, Yeah, I hear you,
you think I'm doing good. But the truth is, I hate this. And the only reason I'm doing it is because
you want me to do it and then get real honest. And even though they can't take the action and say
they're doing something destructive, they're using drugs periodically or whatever, but you have to
be able to accept them as they are, or that acceptance doesn't get transmitted and it ultimately
causes the the breakout of, you know, like all of a sudden, they don't care about your opinion
anymore because their brains driving them crazy because they're not recognizing and respecting
how they really feel. The pressure builds, and they're they're doing this stuff because they want
to make you happy, but they don't really want to do the work of making themselves happy, you know.
And part of that is because when you go to saying, Hey, dude, I think you're an asshole for making
me do this right now. You know what, get a job. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like if they don't get
that kind of honesty and do the right thing anyway, that's what they can't handle. It's not,
it's not keeping the bad action down. The bad action just happens as a result of not feeling
accepted, not a part of they feel alien because it's so easy for you to do it, but I can't do it.
You know, I can keep it going for a couple of weeks and months, but I can't keep it going
because it's not me and I'm not honest enough to say how I really feel, you know. And so how do
you get around that? How do you get a guy like me that knew all that stuff and not and got to a
point and there's tons of people like me out there, but you'll find them when you start doing it.
Like you get family will keep you the sickest when you're like that. You because they're really
yeah, because they'll accept you with your bad behavior sometimes and they'll yell at you constantly.
So they slowly take away your life force while like keeping you there. My mother did it to me
by accident. She didn't know, you know, it's like the term they call like the devouring mother.
Yeah, yeah, something like that. Yeah. Because it's a weakness that they're
or like a bandaid, they're keeping their kid around because it's they don't want to deal with the
heartache of cutting loose, which is ultimately the best thing. Yeah, that's the only way they
can do is throw them out of the nest, you know what I mean? But it's sometimes they die, you know,
sometimes, but that was happening regardless and it might have happened more so because you coddled
the thing and it's not a tough love thing either because I deal with a lot of families
of like addicts and stuff like that. It's a it you have to know you're you're using courage
that they're you're doing this and I the first thing I get them to do is practice what people
are not so close to, you know, go somewhere and start talking to people and get real honest,
like, you know what, if this kid dies, I'd be better off because I'll sleep at night.
Or if this kid goes to prison, like my mom was able to do that. When you're in prison, I feel
safe. I feel like you're safe. That's what she would say. And I didn't really understand what
she was saying was she didn't know how to detach from me and still look like a good mother,
you know what I mean? And it's ingrained in a in a woman to, you know, not give up period,
but when you got certain destructive forces in there, they end up being your enemy, you know,
they end up being the the worst one to help you. Yes, for a time. Yeah, I see that. Yeah. Oh, man,
it's it's one of the most heartbreaking things to see and try to talk somebody through. Sometimes I
don't I don't like doing that because I feel like they probably hate me for telling them this. But
I got to tell them sometimes stay out of it. If you really want this kid, if you want this,
you want what's best for this kid, or do you just want to look like like you did it? Are you willing
to play the back role and get the best benefit? Or you want to look like the great mom and have
your kid die, right? That's what it comes down to, you know, in some of those cases. But they're all
unique. They're very people are sick in different ways. People hide it better than others. And
it's very difficult to get people to know you can tell me the truth. I'm not going to judge none of
that. And we can't get anywhere until you do. So it might take us six months of talking honestly
before you tell the truth about what's going on. And you might not even know it. You know,
most of the time, they don't know it. Right. Yeah, that's fucking wild. Yeah. How many people
like this have you helped dealt with? Oh, are you still doing it today? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I don't
know. I mean, hundreds. Yeah, like, it's weird how many people are in my life, because I never
talked to it. But you know, if I did, it was just to get something. Yeah. Yeah, it wasn't right.
Yeah. But yeah, when I when somebody asked me a question like that, or I think like that for a
second, it's overwhelming. There's way too many people. Like, yeah, and I don't know how it all
well, there's this, there's this life force that seems to give you limitless resources to do it
and time slows down and all that stuff. I don't know about really, but that's the only way I can
explain it, that when you're on the side of life, you have everything you need to do it.
But it is a struggle to stay on that without you have this whole you have this whole psychology
and this whole mentality, like you see these people, and you have literally been through all
this, you have you have it mapped out like yeah, yeah, it's it's experiential for sure. It's not
even though I read tons of stuff and all that. And it all comes to the front of my head when I
need it. But if I tried to look smart, I would go right back to that dummy growing. Yeah, yeah,
right. I'll recite this or whatever. I'd be like, yeah, I don't know what you're talking about.
But when I'm in that mode of sincerity, humility, and it all comes right to the front of my head,
everything I need is right there. Like even when me and you were talking, I sensed you got a,
you know, something going on that where you want answers to that truly and sincerely,
you know what I mean? You could see you have an investment and through friends or something,
friends. Yeah, yeah, something. And in that type of stuff only come like I'm not interested in
nothing else, you know, or nothing else pulls my interest in everywhere else I look like a dummy.
I mean, dude, I mean, it's it's a fascinating thing that like I have friends that are that
fit this description perfectly. And, you know, it's a thing that it's like, I freaking rack my
brain over it all the time. Yeah, like how how is this happening? How does this guy fucking get
go on the right path for so long? Like, look how fucking good he's doing? Like,
like clockwork, once every five years, fucking right back down to zero.
Did it twice at five years. That's funny. That's the timeline I went out twice.
And when I say I went out, I went, I swear, I gave up hope that I can change. You know what I
mean? I do it for my kid. I would do it for all kinds of reasons. And it would look great. I would
build up and everything else. But I was still missing that completeness of why I was doing it.
Right. Yeah. And there was something pulling at me. I mean, hard and and it would take about five
years to get to that point where it was so unbearable that most of the time I gave up this
time I didn't give up because I messed up two major organs and I was just too lazy. That was the
only reason. It was just old age. And I mean, maybe, you know, this God or something intervene,
I don't know, you know, I don't know. But this time I stuck through it and about three years
after that five years, I was like, thank God, this is what they're talking about about living.
You're one lucky one. Oh, man. Yeah. If you could live through it all. Because the things I know,
I know, I don't have to go read a book or not. I just know them from doing it wrong every way
you can imagine and then doing it to the point where I can get a license or a death sentence
and still doing it. I found out what works and what doesn't for me. But I do not suggest that
like read a self read a self book survival rates not very high. Yeah. But the ones like me won't
listen to that. You know what I mean? And the only people they listen to are people that did that.
Right. That's why I get a poll of a lot of people. I mean, it's amazing how many, you know, families
and stuff I'm intertwined in and stuff like that. Because I mean, if you read my history on record or
anywhere, it's not a good read for family fun. Yeah. But it's like they love me. I love them.
And so weird. It's like a whole nother. Yeah, it's a real it's a real human connection. Human
connections. Yeah. And I I thought that was the worst part of life was connection with others.
Right. I really did growing up. That's somehow I picked that up. And I just thought nobody's to
be trusted, live in your head and only deal with people when you need some more material to live
in your head. Because they're not to be trusted. Nothing's consistent. It's all going to go to
shit. Like I had this negative outlook. And I don't know, I guess I just purchased it from fear and
the lack of control over my emotions. They were so I was so hypersensitive. And you would think I
was like a stone killer. Right. The way I walk and I didn't express nothing. But I just learned to
do that because I didn't want nobody asking me no questions. You know, right? The truth is I had
like, I was ruled by emotion. You know, well, you were also so young to like, dude, you were like,
you know, I mean, in prison at fit from 15 to 20, I mean, your hormones are firing. Oh, crazy. Yeah.
Yeah. It was I smashed his finger in prison. And and this nurse was giving me a sponge bath
because they didn't want my hand getting infected because I'm a minor. I think they're illegally
putting me in with adults and stuff, but whatever. And so they're they're giving me sponge bath.
And I'm like, you know, it's crazy how much I was like, you know, a bare touch or anything
like that would just make me not I did. I wasn't going to say that. But yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was like, oh, damn it. She's like, oh, that's normal. That's gonna be fucking torture for a
kid. Yeah, it was a crazy thing. Yeah. Yeah, because I mean, I've heard stories about state
life. I've heard the story. I had a guy in here who was in state prison for a while. He's actually
a friend of mine's brother. Right. He said that whenever a female cop would walk through all the
dudes would be fucking jacking. Yeah, because it's deprivation. Like if you if if the idea of jail
was what they wanted at first, sit with yourself, think about what you're doing. You know,
of course, there's people that exploit that make it horrible and shit like that. But if you really
had a place where you were just set aside from society, you don't want to be a part of society.
Okay, sit somewhere and see if what you really want because you can't go around harming people,
you know. And so if you had that ideal prison thing, I think it would work. You know what I
mean? As far as like, you know, it doesn't even have to be called a prison. Like maybe just throw
them in a cave unless they're throwing a cave. Yeah, I don't know. Throw them in a cave with no
sensory, you know, because sensory deprivation, sensory deprivation tanks. Joe Rogan talks about
those all the time. Give them some mushrooms and put them in a sensory deprivation tank. I believe
that's where it's all going eventually. But I think so too. Yeah, I think it's really, you know,
that's just the way it's going. But because of money. Not enough money. Yeah. Yeah, that's the
problem. The people put money over welfare and they don't realize that's a time bomb that eventually
your money's not going to make any difference. You know what I mean? There's nothing. There's
only so many resources, whatever. But not looking out for the welfare and helping things get better
instead of people. It's a ticking time bomb. Absolutely. Yeah, they even said that about
the prison system. They said you keep locking people up for drugs. You got a time bomb on your
hands. You're going to have all these people in here who weren't criminals now or becoming,
they've done some criminal acts, but it was due to a desperation or whatever crimes of emotion.
And and you're treating them, you're putting them in hard and criminals who are,
you know, chasing money like you're chasing the drugs and all this other stuff. And they've done
this over and over again. You're creating a time bomb. So I think it was a governor or something
back then that said that. But it's true. They privatized the prisons. They're making money off
of it. Yeah. You know, people buy a prison, Wacken Hut, George Wacken Hut, you know, those
guys are making money off of locking people up. Like there's an incentive to get locked, you know,
lock people up. That's crazy. You know what I mean? But it is crazy. Yeah. I don't get into politics.
I don't feel like I got the right to talk about that stuff sometimes. You know what I mean? I
don't know enough about it. Well, you know more about the prison system than most people. Oh,
yeah. The inside. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder what the percentage is of people that actually get
help like do better after prison versus the people who just don't the people who are either they
fucking die or they never get out or they just fucking, I don't know, they don't get better.
I don't know the statistics are I should have never been out of prison more than a week.
That's my statistics as far as the state goes. I should have never been and it's been 15 years
since I've committed it. Well, fixing myself. I choked. Getting right took a little bit of bumping.
You're still the same person. You're just trying. So right. But the commitment and everything else.
So it's been about 12, 13 years since I've gotten any trouble or I think like that still,
but I don't act on it. Sometimes I'll think about stuff like this fucking dude trying me or something.
It'll go through my head, but that's just old stuff coming up, but it has no real
emotion behind it. So going back. What was your question again? I'm sorry. I forgot.
Yeah. We're even on like five tangents. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I wanted to get to the religious
aspect of your upbringing, though, like how much of a how big of a part was religion in your early
life? Well, I read the Bible four or five times by the time I was, I don't know, 10 trying to fix
my family. Yeah. Cause I really thought everybody was stressed out way too much, you know, and I
felt all this pressure to like fix them. I don't know what it was, but, but what I didn't know
and why I turned my back on all that stuff. My mom was a joe was witness. My dad was Catholic.
Me and my dad would skip out most of the time when they went to church and we'd go do something.
But anything other than go to church. But when I did have to go, it was miserable for me
because everybody else seemed like so pleasant and they were getting at me. I was like, I'm going
hell. You know, that's all I seen out of that place is I'm going to burn. I can't act like these
people, you know, and I couldn't sit still. I was like, this is driving me crazy. And so me and
my dad would escape from that. And so I avoided it. But at the same time, I did read the Bible
over and over again, trying to see what this was all about. Because if how come some families can
be somewhat functional, you know, our family, like there was threats running back and forth and
be quiet. You know, there was always like a impending doom feeling around me. So,
so I did read it from the back. I studied a lot. And what I didn't know at the time is I was looking
at it for my own power, which is a selfish, self centered way to try to look at spiritual things.
It's an all in power. Yeah, like for my own will, like to fix the people I want to fix,
like playing God and reading the Bible. Like, and I didn't know at the time, of course,
I'm a kid, I just, you know, I'm thinking, Oh, there's gods up here taking requests.
Let me read this Bible, put in some requests for this family. And and then but what I didn't know
is spiritual is all inclusive. Like, and so these religions are just about certain people,
the people, not the not the spirit that's behind it. A lot of them, like some of them really do
understand the deeper meanings and stuff like that. But but then if they tried to tell me at that
time, I wouldn't have got it because I'm still trying to fix physical people. What what that does,
like, it's only good if I took those spiritual truths, apply them to everybody and it became my
nature. So you can't just take stuff like that, throw it on somebody and be like, Hey, act like
this. You know what I mean? So so I didn't know that. But you know, later in life, getting
all that stuff came to life. And I see where it's all true. It's people's
religious accounts of spiritual matters. You know what I mean? It's all true. It's just
it's their culture at the time. They're there. And if you read it in a spiritual way,
like it's all inclusive, it applies to everybody. But it's more about acquiring that way of looking
at things non violence. This is not rather than taking the kids guns. You live non non violently.
Right, you can't be cursing everybody out and doing all the crazy stuff you're doing and
break a kid's gun and think he's going to get the message. Yeah, total conflict of.
Yes, kind of like a like a moral framework for society, right?
Yeah, well, kind of it's it's a way of living. So so you got all these different religions and
I've got to know people and all of them. And basically, the people who are looking for all
inclusions and all inclusiveness, they find a way of being that allows them to live and let
and this seems spiritual or what some people would call, you know, what what I experienced
today at going to places, the same places I go to now are are euphoric to me. Whereas in the past,
it was going here, this sucks dealing with these people sucks, you know, everything was
sucked. It sucked. But all I got to do is come here and meet you. I'm having a good time. Like
that's the difference. It's an inside thing. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah, you bring
like I'm not bringing here an agenda. I'm bringing here just a connection. Right. And you're
connected with me and that that's all I need. You know what I mean for today? And it might
lead to wherever or it might be just this. Either way, it's fine. You know, right? That's
fascinating. Yeah. Um, all right. So back to like the linear timeline. You get out at what like
22, 20, 22 years old. Yep. How long did it take and what were you doing the next time you got in
trouble? Well, I got out. I remember going and having a drink with a friend of mine.
Um, and I didn't do anything more than that because I said I wasn't going to get, you know,
report and then at that time I didn't do any drugs. That was that was later. That really got
confusing. But so I drank with him one night and then I went to make him money. I had some friends
I met in there and we went to the other coast, picked up a bunch of sheets of acid and all kinds
of stuff and brought it back over and sold it for 300% profit. Cocoa Beach. Yeah. Well,
Boca Raton. Boca Raton. Yeah. Yeah. Boca Raton. So at that time, my buddy, um, I was actually
after the last podcast, I was trying to look him up. It says he died like 10 years ago. Yeah.
I wonder why I didn't hear from him, but I don't know. I actually paid for the little thing where
you could find somebody. Oh yeah. Thought about, I haven't thought about it. Was it one of the scam
websites? No, it was a good one. Oh yeah. It worked. It showed the guy's address and everything
else in it showed. He died. I was like, man, that's horrible. He was a really happy good dude.
Yeah. But he killed himself. He loved the party and, oh, I mean, you know, killed himself driving.
Yeah. Driving drunk. And, um, you know, he was always doing that, like driving real fast over
there and drunk. Yeah. Yeah. But, uh, he swore he was the one that knew how to do that. But anyway,
he, I, uh, I was going and getting stuff and then trying to play semi pro football and, um,
and I, you know, I had all the same people all the way and I had this reputation because I went
to prison and came back, you know, people thought that was cool. And, uh, yeah, just kind of, I
don't know, you just get like a, it felt like I was like kind of, um, idolized a little bit.
You know what I mean? For a while. And I didn't pay really no mind to it, but in hindsight,
I look at it like a lot of people made me feel like I did something good going to prison.
You kind of like owned the identity of it. Yeah. Like, like, well, I wasn't really thinking about
it just because I lived, I lived that. And then you were never, you never, you were never like
analytical of anything, especially like self analytical. No, no, I was analytical of stuff,
but it was nothing to do itself. It was how, yeah, it was how am I going to fit in? How am I
not going to go to prison again? Right. So I was always analyzing that stuff, missing out on the,
on the cause of that, a lot of that, you know. So yeah, I would, I would, and all this stuff I
looked at in retrospect, like, like it's pretty much how I lived my whole life. It was reaction,
reaction, reaction, get some time to sit on your hand, you look at it, but what can you do about
it? And then you keep going. And it wasn't until this guy kind of explained to me that, um, I bought
into some things that even though I'm honest, it's not true. You know, even though I'm being
honest with him about what it is, it's still not true. And that goes back to what I was telling
you about being honest about your emotions long enough to find the truth. You know, so, so you
give your best honesty, you're on a lie detector test, it comes out, you're telling honest, you're
being honest. You believe it, right? You're being honest. Yeah, but you're, but you're, you're convinced
in the mind. It's still not true. It was lie detector tests. All they really do is detect
how nervous you are, right? I don't really know. They put me on one. They were pretty accurate.
You know, I mean, I wasn't, I wasn't trying to hide nothing because I was actually legitimately
that time. I had this guy on here a couple months ago and he got arrested for rape and murder when
he was, I want to say 12 years old, 13, 12 or 13. And he didn't do it. Right. But he was really
friends with the, he was like the closest friend of the girl who got raped and murdered. It was in
like one of the first years of high school, maybe. So maybe he was like 14 or 15 after that. But they
put him on a lie detector test and like the cops were acting like his friend and he like failed
the lie detector test so bad. Even having that charge is making nervous. Yeah. And they, they,
he ended up going to prison for 16 years until they caught the guy who actually did it. They
matched the DNA. So they fudged his DNA just to fucking get a conviction. But he explained to me
basically how fucking bullshit the lie detector tests are and how the, the specialists, I forget
what they're, what you call them, but the people who actually administer the lie detector tests,
the polygraph tests, how they can manipulate the people that are doing it in the way they
ask the questions. Wow. And I believe that they're not, they don't hold up in court anymore. It might
be because of that guy. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. You can't use them as evidence. They're too unpredictable.
Right. Yeah. The inconclusive they call it. Right. Yes. So yeah, they, you know, when they did mine,
it was just for, because they already had the DNA. They had this guy's DNA that did it. So they,
all they needed was the match of DNA. They wanted to slip questions in there, but my lawyer fixed
it all to where they only got one end. Did you ever maim somebody or some shit like that? I
kept the fuck nose. I don't know. Yeah. But I busted a lot of people up. So how do you answer
that question? Right, maim. Stumbled on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I stumbled on that one three times,
but every other one passed it. So it was good enough for them. Good enough for me.
It was probably just some bullshit that set me up. But who knows? I walked out on that and then
60 days later, I got like 11 million sales and manufacturing heroin charges. So I was facing
life again. 60 days later, you think I'd turn manufacturing heroin. I was doing was buying
pure heroin and cutting it and selling it. Yeah. And how do you get life or something like that?
They tried to give me 180 years with the habitual offender. Oh, yeah. Later on,
they tried to give me life for one pill out of the bottle that I had a prescription for Xanax.
They tried to that last bit. I got two years for it. I was on like 800 milligrams of methadone
a day, which is a lot of methadone. And I remember them going, you know, the judge was like,
why aren't we giving you life today? I was like, dude, I had one pill. I have a script for that
Xanax. And I took it out and put it in my sock. I said, if you want to fight this,
I can fight it, but I really want to kick. So give me two years. I'll go right now.
He did. He gave me two years. But he was trying to give me life as a career criminal. I was like,
Jesus, this place is ridiculous. And how old were you when you finally got locked up the second
time? The second time was only a couple of years later. Okay. Yeah. I kept going in and out and
a couple of them were small bids, you know, total about 15 years. And I kept going in and out. And
then they finally, they were just getting sick of me. They were trying to give me life for almost,
and I always thought I was going to get life because they've been telling me that, you know,
all that time I started buying into it, commencement of the mind, honest, not true. You
know, I honestly thought I was going. And if you thought, if you talk to me for any period of time,
it's like live right now because we're going away forever. So yeah, I kept making things work
worse with the reaction, reaction, reaction, you know, not really processing or thinking,
not living, you know, not experiencing life. And state prisons are like the worst, right? I've
heard the state prisons are the worst. Yeah. I mean, they're a lot worse than the feds in some
senses. Most people, if they have a lot of time to do, they want to go to the feds. Right. Yeah,
because they got like paying jobs there. They got, you know, you know, mopping the floor,
get you 10 cents an hour or something like that. Whereas in prison, you only got like a couple
pride jobs that you work all day long and the hot sun might get two bucks or something.
But me, I just, you know, I lived off the land, I guess you'd say. Yeah. What was it that you found
when you were, when you got locked up the second time? Like, how did you find value and how did
you fit in, in the community that you were in there? Like, like, what did you do to find any
sort or did you find any sort of meaning or purpose or value when you were in there?
I liked the conflict a little bit. I know in hindsight, looking back on it, I would hang with
the Jewish people. Sometimes the piss off the Aryan guys and I hang out with the Aryan guys
that piss off the, they were so racist. Like, what a bunch of clowns, you know what I mean?
You're all in the same place and it's always been. That's how it is in all prisons, right?
All the, all the different. Well, there are a lot more segregated up north, but, but down here,
they have, you know, everybody's throwing in together and then you got these, these clowns that
are, you know, they're so hell bent on hating something because it's a distraction, keeps you
from looking at yourself. And for some reason, I was always in conflict with that, you know?
And I would even, I would say mean things and do mean things just to start a fight over that
type of stuff. Really? Because you just wanted to beat somebody up?
Just because I didn't get it. I didn't get it. When I moved, yeah, when I moved to Naples, I,
you know, I had black people hate me at first, you know, I'm friends with everybody now, but
I had like black people hate me because I was white. I had white people hate me because I was
a Yankee. And, and they would just say like the stupid, most stupid things. So I just started
beating the shit out of her. You know what I mean? And, and then I, you know, because I really,
my dad, one time when I was a little kid in Jersey, we had like a line. It was almost like an
imaginary line. And I remember saying some racial slangs to this guy, you know, we're like seven,
six, we don't know what we're saying. We just hear the older kids in the neighborhood,
we're yelling these things back and forth. He's calling me this. I'm calling my dad,
snatches me by the ear and snatches him by the ear. He's like, this is your new best friend.
Ever since then, I never had a problem. He was a great kid. You know, I mean,
turned out to be one of my, you know, closest friends growing up there. And all his like family
and over, they were racist as shit towards me. You know, go over there. I have to deal with
that. And I'd be like, yeah, whatever, you know, and I'm here for this person. Fuck off.
What city was he? He was black. Yeah. And then, you know, and then his sister, too,
she's I used to like riding her bike, but it was a girl bike, but you like to ride
wheelies on it for a while. And the guy would all, you know, the older kids would be all,
you know, that cracker, you know, they'd said, honky up there or whatever.
Yeah, they would call you a honky down in Florida that cracker. But
Bobby like, yeah, go fuck yourself, you know, and they would have beat me up or something.
They would beat my ass. Really? Yeah, I wasn't, I wasn't big yet. And
and I didn't know how to fight at that time. So I would get beat up. But but anyway, I learned
through taking a beating and giving a beating that people are just stupid, you know, and and
same thing on my side, I'd be sitting there helping somebody who's trying to help me because
of my color, not because, because he likes me as a person. You know what I mean? He's just
looking out for his own. And, you know, you're helping them with the change in the wheel next
you know, it's some shitty conversation about, you know, it's their fault because it is. And I'm
like, and then oh, and then one was yelling at me because I hung out with a Spanish guy,
my friend in prison. No, no, no, this is on the streets in New Jersey. Yeah. And it was weird,
too, because they weren't stupid people. They were highly intelligent, but they were blinded by this.
All of them, all of them. I mean, the tribalism. Yeah, tribalism. Yeah, exactly. And it was so,
you know, such a conflict for me. So finally, when I didn't care, and I knew how to fight,
and I didn't care about my welfare, when I got in prison, I kind of antagonized people
of all races. Like when you were in prison, because of this experience that you had from a
young age, like with violence and seeing people and being beating, getting beat up and beating
other people up. Could you look at people and kind of like read them and see like how far they
would go and know that? Yeah. Yeah. You could always see they're like, their lights go off. It's
just this is what I say when this happens, you know, like they get like automatons, you know what
I mean? They stop thinking and they go into a pure ritual. You know, that's how clear it is to me,
because you're all of a sudden, you're not having a conversation when you there was this big dude I
got no fight with. And as soon as I said something, because the dude, the dude in question that he was
talking about was a nice guy, but he had some problem with whatever he did or whatever. And I
don't know the history. All of a sudden, I wasn't talking to this guy anymore. He was just all full
of hatred, jumps off the bunk, tries to hit me, I just stiff armed them, throw them back, punched
them, you know, and then you don't really want to get locked down for periods of time, especially
at a good job. So he huffed and puffed and ran around. And I mean, he's a big dude. I mean,
when you scare me, I try to how big your house, how tall are you six, five, three hundred and
eighty pounds. But he was, he was like a big stuff. Yeah. When I'm when I'm ripped, I'm a little less
fat and stuff. And I look bigger. But but this guy was, you know, ripped up. I mean, you know,
see the same height, same weight, right? Yeah. And his name was Danny, too. Was it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So I felt like one minute we're fine. You know, he actually sought friendship because, you know,
I could lift like anything in there. And so he's like, you know, so we're working out. Next thing
you know, it's like a robot. Oh, this is what I do when when this gets threatened. And it all comes,
you can see it so clearly. I could see it so clearly, because I've seen it so many times.
Rascal thinking. They get fearful. Yeah. They get fearful. And all of a sudden,
there's a there's like a robot you're talking to, you ain't going to get through.
And so he was acting all huffy, puffy. And, you know, I told him, I said, dude,
want to go to the bar, we'll go to the box. I'll beat your ass right now.
And he's like, oh, I'm gonna get you. Whatever. And I was like, Yeah,
all right, shut up. And, you know, he squashed it. There was a little kid. And it's funny too,
because the dude that tried to keep everything calm so we don't get the place locked down.
He was, I don't know. Maybe I know he was Muslim, but I don't know if he was like
from there or whatever. And he's the one that broke it up and held him back and was like,
I was like, nah, don't hold him back. I said, if he wants to, you know, let it go.
And, and, and he was like, nah, no, we don't need to show you guys our friends.
And that's what I thought. But then I don't trust people that flip like that anymore. Like,
after that, you know, in that mentality to this is before I changed, you know,
once you got in that bracket where you can't control your emotions, you're done. I'm done with
you because you're unpredictable and eventually you're going to cause problems that we can't get
out of. Interesting. Yeah. So I'm not going to be tied in with that. You know, you can get
enraged in all that, but you should never let anybody know what you're feeling.
So when you were trying to fuck with people by like hanging out with different groups,
different races of people, and you were, what was it in turn? Like, what were you trying to do?
Or like what? I was trying to destroy that bullshit pride. Like, it didn't make any sense.
Were you trying to like teach them a lesson? Yeah, I think so. I think in a way I was like,
because if somebody else did what I did, they would, you know,
hurt them or make them not do it anymore. And I wasn't going to stop. So I felt like
I was the only person that can get through to this is all crazy. But that's how it makes sense.
Yeah, that's just how I processed it, you know, at the time, because I wanted to play basketball.
And sometimes, you know, other people play basketball and these guys wanted me to not
play basketball because of my color of my. Fuck you. I grew up in Jersey. We played,
we took it serious, you know what I mean? Yeah. So, and plus there's a good way to lose weight
and everything else stay in shape. So whatever, I just did it. And I would just sit there and
bounce the ball staring in the eye. Yeah. And it wasn't not perfect because some of the guys I
played with, they were just as bad to a racism. And yeah, they're going to do this and they,
they run into your, your chest bone with their shoulder real hard when you're,
if you're hacking them or whatever. So I wasn't hacking and somebody tried to do that. And I just
kind of shifted and threw them into the concrete. And I felt perfectly fine with it. You know what
I mean? And all his friends on the court were like, dude, he's just playing. You know what I
mean? You ain't got to go try to run into him like that. You know, they kind of stuck up for me.
But that's what I, that's basically what I wanted to see. That fair is fair.
Right is right. Wrong is wrong without being one of these
like kumbaya or, or, you know, right. I'm not trying to say everything's, you know.
Well, you have the unique ability to do what you were doing too, because I feel like a lot of
those people who stick to their little, their little tribes, they're doing that because they're
going to get protected. Yeah. When somebody else comes out and you didn't give a fuck,
you're going to beat that shit out of whoever they were going to beat me up. But we weren't,
I wasn't going to stop. Right. You know what I mean? And, and you weren't seeking protection
from a group from us. Not only that, I was doing this unconsciously. There was something always
in me to try to care about stuff and do stuff. But at the same time, I didn't like caring about
things because you get wounded too bad. So there was a big contradiction going on inside of me,
which I, that's why I couldn't clearly know what I was doing. I'd be like,
why do I start so much shit sometimes? I mean, and I don't know that there's like a life force
trying to bring life lessons through everybody at all times, really. Right. But most people are so
fearful. And I was too, I was fearful of, of, you know, never figuring out how to live right or
keep a job or be able to stay in society. I was fearful of all these things too. But one, I thought
something was right. You couldn't kill me. You couldn't stop me. Right. You know what I mean?
And, and, but it, the clarity got harder and harder to see, you know, what lessons did you learn
about regarding empathy for other people? Like before when you were younger, growing up, was
there what, what sort of lack of was there? And then at what point, what took it? What did it take
for you to develop a sense of empathy for other humans?
Well, at an early age, there were certain people that didn't seem to succumb to fear.
I thought, and until I got enough courage to really push that to the test, I thought there
were just some people are just like, man, they're really tough. They're really hard or whatever.
I found out later, they're just really good at hiding it. And they have apathy, like they
have a lack of care for their welfare or anybody else's that gives them the ability to appear fearless.
I did, I did the same thing myself. So I knew what that was. But not until I pushed people
who looked fearless to the point of putting fear in them, did I figure out everybody's full of
shit? You know what I mean? Like everybody deals with fear. So empathy came for me through some
hard ass lessons. Like, I knew, I knew what people were saying was true and telling me this stuff,
but they were trying to tell me that that empathy was a necessity. And I said, now there's some
people that know how to get by without dealing with all this, you know, fear and feelings and stuff.
And in my mind, I always contested it. But in my heart, I knew they were saying what they were
saying was everybody has a level of things they got to deal with. And I was like, yeah, not right
now, I'm busy. Yeah. And I put that off so long that I had so many circumstances where I was like,
shit, this is because it's kind of a feminine trait, really, empathy, I think, you know? Yeah.
Yeah. So so it wasn't, it wasn't something I was going to do. You know, I can't appear weak or
anything like that. And then, but what I realized is it doesn't matter what you what you think or
feel it. There's reality. And then there's not. Right. Yeah. And so when I had enough courage
to face that, that was all of a sudden that became a language for me. I guess because I never used
it or never really thought to use it. I always hid my my true intentions. I hid my feelings, my
thoughts. I learned to hide them better and better over the years. Every time somebody found out,
I felt like I was exploited or vulnerable. What I was really thinking or feeling, you do a bunch
of coke and start, yeah, yeah. See, you start letting everything out. Well, I learned that if
you do a bunch of coke with anybody, they let it all out too. They do. Yeah. So you find out who
the who the snitches are like, your boy. Matt Cox. Yeah. Yeah. He's funny. You don't have to give
him coke for him to tell. No, no. He's proud of it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. But good for him.
I mean, you know, if you're doing wrong, whatever, I mean, I can't. He think he believes that if
someone claims that they're that they if they were in his situation and they weren't going to be a
snitch, it was foolish pride. Foolish pride. Either that or they're lying to themselves.
Yeah. Well, both of them. Yeah. The foolish pride is, yeah, lying to yourself because it's,
you know, but my line of reasoning with that was if you're doing something, calculate what the worst
you can get is. And that's how I did it. And that's how I got the clarity of mind to carry out
certain things that I had to carry out was I already accepted the worst possible scenario
as a possibility. And I accepted it before I did it. And so that way there was nothing but
calmness. And most of the time, I didn't end up getting caught. Wow. Yeah. I probably shouldn't
share that. That's a good recipe for people that want to do bad shit. But but that's the that's
the answer to it. And and and at all. And like, you'll get that it's you'll carry that through
and you'll get that. But in the long run, it destroys you, you know, did you ever meet anybody
to where there was just like nobody home? Like empathy does not exist within this person. It's
just you look at into their eyes. And it's just there's nobody like nothing there, like no feelings,
no regard for any values, no regard for doesn't give up, like, would just murder anybody, cut your
head off without any sort of remorse, any sort of human feelings whatsoever. I know, I know,
I knew people, they're dead now, a couple of them. I knew people that in circumstance, certain
circumstances were like that. But I don't know anybody like the Iceman, like he's just like
that 24 seven or whatever, like to Klinsky or whatever. I didn't know guys like that, but
they were all from where I was from, like Jersey City, nor, you know, they had a breed of people
there that is what I got to do, you know, and that I think is generationally from putting
production and technology advances above human welfare. You know what I mean? When
generationally that gets worse and worse, you get a lot more sociopaths and a lot more people
acting like sociopaths to be successful. You know what I mean? And if you act like something long
enough, you purchase that. The reason I ask, I have a friend who's a lawyer who's represented a
lot of murderers. And he explains his clients and he like, he gets deep into the human behaviors
and the human nature and what like how they became this way. And he explains what it's like, like
going on to death row, going through all this security and getting in a room and talking to
these guys that are on death row, like one of the guy who murdered like a dozen women or something.
Right. And he's talking to the guy and he explains what it's like sitting there across the table
from him. Right. And I asked him like, what, how could you describe this person? He goes,
the best way to describe it is you look into his eyes and it's just deadness. There's nobody home.
Right. Well, you're if you're talking about in prison, like I've seen people like that and I've
got to know some of them and talk to them. But like, there's a lot of like, so a doctor, that's
what he was a doctor lawyer, a lawyer. So a lawyer sees him in a certain capacity.
He doesn't see him 24 seven, right? Whereas like when you're living with them, or you're around them
all the time, you know, it's only certain things that trigger that, you know, okay, yeah, there's
there's times when like, so eating is a normal thing. So everybody eats. All of a sudden,
they're a different person when they're eating. You know what I mean? Like the rituals of being
human are all of a sudden there. Yeah. And maybe from their childhood or whatever they learned
to manners or something. But all of a sudden, they're different. They're not nobody's home. I'm
killing you. Stuff like that. So they so there was a guy, I talked about him before. But there
was a guy with his parents and he was his parents. He was a cannibal killed and ate his parents and
and he outlived his life sentence. So he got out in like 2012. I really don't want to talk about
this guy. Wait, how do you outlive a life sentence? They gave like 25 years back then or until you die.
So 25 years that you considered so 25 years or until you die. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. So he was
under a guy. They got different guidelines at different times. So he was under these guidelines.
Yeah, 25 years or life. So and he was already a certain age. What are the health benefits of
eating human beings? Jesus Christ. You know, he ate his own leg. He had a pair of dentures.
They gave him his teeth. You know, they took care of them. And he took the dentures bit a part of
his calf out with the teeth. I was just chewing on it, you know, and that's how I got to meet him.
I was running these I had to run these baths and they walk them in, you know, go in there and do his
thing. But how a guy gets to that point. You know, there were certain things like when he did this
ritual of of that compared to his ritual taking a bath where, you know, two different people,
he would talk different and everything else. So he would be like different people during
different times of the day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I'm saying, nobody can consistent. Now,
there is people that are 24 seven like that. I'm sure I don't really know any of them because
you always need something. Even if you act like you don't, you always need something. So your,
your whole demeanor changes. It might be fake, but it's different. You know, but the far as nobody
home, I've seen that. And it's a scary thing. When there's nobody, there's no lights on. And my
buddy used to get there all the time. He'd stab people all the time. I was, dude, what the hell
is wrong with you? Yeah, quit stabbing people. And he would do it all the time. You break a plady
stab. You know what I mean? Like he broke one, one, one guy bumped the plate on the wall and it
was his old lady's dads or that's dad play hits the ground and the guy didn't seem remorseful enough.
When he goes to stab in the second time, I grab his arm and I pulled him back and I'm like,
calm down and I grabbed the guy and I throw him down the stairs just to
make him feel better. You know what I mean? But not stab him anymore because he's going to leak
out all over the place. It was just crazy. But I used to hang around with that guy all the time
because he just made me look normal. What was this cannibal guy like? Oh, so Lurch. Lurch was
his name? Was he tall? Tall, six, six, white, pasty, you know, been down 25 years, 20, whatever.
Was he, what was his ethnicity? I think he was a white guy. I don't know. He could have been,
he could have been like Scandinavian or something. Oh, interesting. That's all a documentary about
like an Asian guy who was a cannibal. Yeah. It was some, it was ingrained. I don't know where
he got it from. I don't know. But he'd been down for a long time and I didn't have a lot of interactions
with him. But a few, I had to, you know, get a shank out of his hand and choke him out one time.
He was going to kill his nurse. Yeah. And I didn't, I didn't want that known, but, but, uh,
but yeah, he was going to, this lady just talked to him like real disrespectfully and was rude.
And not to say like the guy didn't do bad stuff and he deserves this and that,
but when you don't, you just don't talk to people that don't have nothing to lose like that, you
know, and think you're going to be okay unless you're, you know, unless you're a tough person
and you're going to handle yourself, but she wasn't. He was just reckless with her mouth.
So I warned her about it and then I was, you know, I don't like to get involved, but I,
but I ended up doing that. What was he trying to, well, how was he, what was he doing? He was
going to cut her, you know, or eat her. I don't know who knows what his plans were. But he had a,
he had a knife and he was like, kind of, he just kind of shared it with me. And I just, I said,
hey, pop this door. I went in and got it from him. At least that, uh, she'll get a chance.
And then the guards had seen it. They said something to me. I said, look, don't,
don't put that out there. You know what I mean at all. So I don't know. It kind of made me feel
like I was, I don't know, conflicted because I don't like to get in people's business or.
Did he ever talk about, did you ever ask him like, what the fuck happened to you?
Nah, I, I wasn't that and I wasn't that interested because I've always, well,
because I've always had a strong thing that you should look out for your mom and dad.
And of course his, who knows, maybe they beat him. Right. Who knows what his deal was.
They probably weren't that nice to him. Probably. Maybe, maybe he was just crazy. I don't really
know. And I didn't want to know because anytime I got an idea in my mind that you're a bad person,
then I got to do something about it. You know, so I, okay, I stayed out of it. You know, and
if I hear you're beating old people or something like that or beating your parents up and they
didn't do nothing or something, you know, I'm going to do something to you. I don't want to know.
At that time, I didn't know how to just process that and say, oh, you're learning. Okay. Okay.
A plus B equals me in the box. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. And I don't want to be there.
So you tell me some crazy shit you did and I don't like it. I'm gonna hurt you. And at that time,
you know, so yeah, I just stayed out of it. But yeah, there was people I got to know
like that where nobody was home at times. And there was a doctor that dealt with Dahmer
that worked there. And he told me some crazy stories about Dahmer. Really? Well, he told me
that the guy can run like 20 miles and not break a sweat like crazy things he can mind over matter
certain things he can lose 10 pounds and like that or he can gain he can strong mental
capabilities, but nobody's home. He would say like and he had some some memorabilia and he had
the first woman executed in Florida to he had her sheet. He would buy weird things like that off of,
you know, the blood spot and the starch board. It's like a starch board. Those sheets they kill
you on with lethal injection. He would buy this shit. Yeah, he would like get it. You know,
you had you had hookups on it. But on eBay, you could sell that stuff for like, I don't know,
$300,000 or some crazy number for I got to sit in the electric chair. So if I could have took
a piece of that with me, that would have been cool. So because they couldn't lift these packs in
the back of the electric chair, like 450 pounds, all the guards are kind of fat and out of shape.
But so I go down there, I said, I'll do this. I'm gonna pull them out. I want to sit in the chair.
You know, the time I'm still crazy. And and I got to sit in that thing and it was eerie.
It was eerie. Have you ever seen the documentary called Mr. Death? You gotta watch that shit.
Yeah, I'll check it out. It's on that pull up that Mr. Death trailer. It's on.
No, I don't think it's on Netflix. I think it's on. I think I watched it on Amazon.
Amazon. Okay. So it's this guy in the basic the synopsis of it. There's this guy. Maybe we can
just watch the trailer. Yeah, that's a Fred Lutcher fucking fascinating story, man. So this guy
was contracted by the all the prisons to to improve all of the execution method. So he
like reinvented the electric chair, the gallows, the gas chambers, and basically his his whole
life was dedicated to fucking executing. Play this trailer. You got the audio hooked up. Well,
like the most humane way or just yeah. So this guy's real. He lives in he was in Alabama.
Oh, that's where all the Nazis are. And then chamber and then experts and outcome 10 Fred
Lutcher is no there's nobody Fred Lutcher was our only hope.
I don't think he's naive. I guess if the godfather called you up and said you got to do this job
for me, you just do it without thinking about it. Come on guys.
To me, it looks like he's almost under a spell. He truly believed what he was doing was right.
He saw everything he'd built up in his own quiet humble way destroyed by these people
he had never met whom he had offended. It's kind of a shitty trailer. But this guy Joe
asked me if I knew what Fred did for a living. And I said no. And he said he kills people.
And that kind of surprised me until he explained exactly what he did,
which wasn't that he killed people, but he made things that killed people.
Anyways, you can stop it. It's kind of a boring trailer. But yeah, anyways, he was contacted.
I forget what happened, but his father worked for the BOP, I guess. And he somehow got the contract
to because the electric chair, when they first developed it, it wasn't killing people. The
right like it was electrocuting him. And they'd be fucking like coming back. They would be coming
back and be fucked up and like throwing up or like that guy German. No, it's so it gets crazy.
Okay, he's not I don't think he's he's not German. But anyways, he got contracted. He fixed he learned
the inner workings of the electric chair, how it worked. Eventually he figured out how to get
to kill people the first time and not have them suffer. Right. Then they're like, okay,
now you can fix our gas chambers. Now you can work on the gallows. And now now we want to do
something more humane lethal injection. So he fucking developed the lethal injection. Right.
Perfect combination. And after doing this for so long, he learned, holy fuck, it's so hard to
kill a human being. Right. So he learned how difficult it really was to kill a human being.
It's not easy. It's not as easy as you would think. And then it goes off the rails towards the end
of the documentary because he basically says, I don't believe the Holocaust was real. He goes,
I he he says he doesn't believe that that all these Jewish people were killed in gas chambers.
He's like, there's no way it could be. He he travels to Germany, he visits Auschwitz,
visits all these places, and he's they show him in there. And he's like studying it,
doing the science on it. And ultimately, he believes it was fake. Wow. So so he's kind of a
crazy, you know, I don't know enough about it. I don't I mean, if you believe that you're a crazy
person. So and then so he had Mossad following him around, he had like Israeli intelligence
following him around, he got sued, went to court over it. It's an insane story. He got sued because
he didn't believe the Holocaust was real. Yeah, it was like a freedom of speech thing. I'm gonna
I'm butchering this. Yeah. But if you watch the documentary, there was a guy who came out with
a book claiming the Holocaust wasn't real. This guy went to court, he was sued over it. And
somehow this guy, Lutcher got deposed in the lawsuit, because he studied he was like the
expert on death. Right. So he was deposed to sort of talk about how difficult it was to kill people
with gas with cyanide and all this stuff. And he was basically making the case that if these are
the places that you're saying all these people were executed, it would be impossible. Right. He's
like, I couldn't make these these rooms. So I couldn't kill people in these rooms. It would be
impossible, especially thousands of people. Right. So it's a fascinating documentary. The guy's crazy.
But anyway, I don't know how we got that tangent. You were dead. Yeah, Mr. Death. That's what it's
called. Mr. Death. Mr. Death. Yeah, yeah, on Amazon. Yeah, I was just watching that hunters and
they were talking about getting the Nazis and they're all in Huntsville, Alabama. Oh, really?
What was it called? Hunters, Al Pacino and just bunching that one kids in it, whatever. But it's
really, it's pretty wild. Man, how they the government took them, took them in all their
scientists and helped them with their their rockets and all that. Everybody knows, but they
infiltrated for a fourth Reich. They infiltrated the highest levels of, you know, politics and all
that, or the government. Yeah. Yeah. It's a pretty wild story. They said it's based on a true story.
Dude, there's so many wild stories, like spiraling off off that World War Two and everything after
that, man. That's was a lot. Yeah, they're coming. Yeah, it just comes out now. And that's how it
always is. It comes out later and everybody's like, what the hell? Right? Yeah. By the time you find out,
it's old news. You can't do nothing about it. So you sat in the electric chair? Yeah. Yeah, sat.
After I took those packs out, I didn't want the thing haywire and let you keep me back. And you so
you were like actually legitimately on death row? Well, I stayed in a open bay dorm with the other
workers. And then I was I worked in death row. But it's all in the same prison. But where I go,
most of these inmates don't go the workers, you know, I'm down in the cells and all the places
where they're housing the people waiting to die. And, and, you know, and then I'm in the medical
part, you know, waiting for something to happen. Somebody gets cut or killed on anywhere in the
prison. I have to go clean it up or whatever. You volunteered to do this? No, not to give you a job.
When I got there, I was kicking so much methadone, I told the, told the guards, I said, lock me up,
if you want to, I'm not doing nothing for like 30 days. Yeah, I was still kicking. And they sent
me so quick through the prison system and sent me to this place. I was like, Jesus, like the
Twilight Zone. And I was still kicking my I had like atrophy, my legs were weak. And, and so I
told them I said, look, give me like 30 days, I'll get my strength back. I'll do a job then. And
then they gave me that job. So it was, you know, it was pretty interesting, pretty interesting job.
What was like the most fucked up thing you saw? So many things, but one guy bit another guy
penis off through the, I should laugh. That's my mind still goes to humor when I can't comprehend
something. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's immature, but it's just the way I am. So the guys, you know,
it's getting blown by the other guy. And I guess he found out he cheated on one another guy. I'm
in medical and he bites his penis off. They come flying down there with the guy. They're like,
there, grab a bag of ice, go get, go get this guy's penis. And I was like, yeah, no, I ain't
doing that. And I can't even say the rest of the story because I'll probably get in trouble. But
they wanted you to go rescue his dick. Yeah, put it on ice to try. I don't know. I don't know. I
don't know if it was like a piece or a chug, but when I got down there was a bloody mess. I just
kind of kicked it down the drain. If that's illegal, don't put that on the thing, you know,
I don't know. I just, I wasn't going to touch it. So, oh my God. Yeah, it was pretty crazy. But
that's just one of, I mean, people have been smashed and so whenever like somebody, what was more
prevalent people committing suicide or people are getting people trying to commit suicide,
killing people or trying to commit suicide, what was more prevalent?
Well, so, so everybody in there was kind of sick, like from the guards down to the inmates,
everybody kind of gets sick in that environment. And when I say sick, I mean, like your thoughts
just get twisted and annoyance where say you had a friend and he was being annoying, you'd be like,
hey, dude, you're being annoying. I'm going home. These people would plot to kill you when you were
annoying. So that's kind of, and if you were real annoying, the guards would plot to kill you,
you know, and tell other inmates to kill you and give you the free time to do it. So
what happened a lot was, so somebody would try to hang themselves, there's no real way to do it.
So they tie the sheets around the corner of the bed, and then they flip themselves. And a lot of
times what happened, they break their neck and they start swelling. So I would have to go snatch
them up, put them on a thing and run down this thing and end up cutting their throat and putting
a trick down there and trying to keep them alive. And they turn into like a vegetable or something.
So it can get worse. I mean, even though you're waiting to die in life in prison,
now you might be waiting with no, you know, being paralyzed. So I wouldn't want to be in that.
So most of the times trying to do that, trying to hang themselves or kill themselves would be a
failed attempt. Yeah, cutting themselves to that cut themselves a lot. Sometimes they do it for
attention. Sometimes, you know, if you're really trying to off yourself, I guess there's no stopping
you eventually, unless you do like that, you paralyze yourself. But then this one guy was beat
beat to death. Another guy was lit on fire a bunch of times. Yeah, I've seen that, you know,
they put them out if they really want to torture them, they'll burn them and then put them out,
stuff like that. You know,
I have to ask you, yeah, Jeffrey Epstein, did he kill himself or did he get killed?
I don't, you know, if you were to, I know you don't know, but give me an educated guess.
Well, first of all, I hate to say this. I don't know that story. I've heard that name.
I'm so okay. Yeah, I don't watch hardly anything like that. Like, and it's funny,
I got little bits and pieces from people. He's a high profile guy who basically was friends
with a lot of presidents and politicians and a lot of billionaires, rich people.
He has a lot of secrets that could potentially fuck with, you know, powerful people.
Clintons, right? The Clintons, mainly the Clintons. Yeah, a lot of people.
And he was found hanged and by, it was the bed sheet, I believe. Yeah. And completely dead,
but the main thing there was these two vertebrates in like the lower part of his neck that were
broken. And I guess there was an expert that did the autopsy said when those vertebrates are broken,
it's usually strangulation. Yeah. Or like violent choking out. Thumbs that are front.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And I guess the guy who was in the cell with him was like a fucking monster,
like an enormous motherfucker. Yeah. Yeah, he probably was killed. But because hanging yourself
is not easy. Like I knew a guy and conveniently the cameras went out when that happened. Yeah,
yeah, there was definitely probably a conspiracy going on there. Because I seen a guy, this guy
was serious, never committed a crime in his life. He was his wife was having
like a mental breakdown or something. So he's out in the grass of the road, he pulls up,
he tries to like get her out of the road. The cops and Naples pull up on him, think he's
abusing her and lock him up. And his parents were like, you know, all on the side of locking him up
and on the side of this woman. And I really don't believe he was guilty. I think I think he went
a little overboard with trying to help somebody who didn't want their help. You know what I mean?
So but he was a nice guy. He made he made signs. He had a business. He was really he made this D
for me. That was my first initial whatever. He made a cool ass picture of it. And anyway,
I got to know this guy. He wouldn't eat. He kept not eating. He got himself real light on Christmas
Eve morning. I hear bang. And I was like, man, I was like, I hope he didn't try to kill himself,
you know, because you hear the metal pulling on the thing where he jumped. He took a running jump,
tied the sheets around the thing. He had enough room to run, go out and come down off the second
floor and, you know, and do that. So he was a vegetable for a little while before he died.
I'm picking the guy up. They're telling me, don't touch him, don't touch him. We're in the county
jail together. So I was like, go fuck yourself. I said on time, I get somebody on time. I let him
down. He's a vegetable as parents came to me for for as a witness. Now all of a sudden, they went
from being against them to believing he's innocent. And because they can sue the county for negligence
and false whatever, they wanted money. I told them, go fuck yourself. You know what I mean? I
said, I said, I was messed up how you switched out. Even if he did it, even if he was rough with
that lady, yours, that's your kid, you know what I mean? And I hated them for that. At that time,
I had no no ability to see the sickness and people and no real empathy for I just thought
they were pieces of shit. So I didn't help them at all. And he ended up dying. And but my point
of that is, if you're going to kill yourself, first thing you got to do is lose some weight.
And to be able to do it in those circumstances. Second, if this guy has been sheltered from
his consequences, and this is his first gig at getting in trouble, he's probably doesn't have
the temperament for going all out, you know, and it's a certain kind of I mean, some people I
know did one day in jail and they just lost it. They couldn't do jail time. Yeah. And it's not
because they were a week or anything like that. Just certain people can't be locked up. And that
was a friend of mine blew his head off because he was facing a jail bid for he hit somebody. It was
really their fault. We should have took off for whatever. But but it was their fault. There were
two drunk guys on a motorcycle, a legal they stole the motorcycle, they cut in front of his car,
and it chopped one of the guys legs off. But the other guy was picking them up. We already called
the ambulance. I was like, let's leave, dude, because you've been on acid. We just came back
from a concert over in Miami. And I said, let's just leave. There's nothing else we could do.
And he was like, nah, I gotta stay, you know, and he stayed. He went to jail. I bailed him out.
And he's like, I can't do jail time. He blew his head off before he went to court. How much
jail time was he facing? I mean, what's the worst for, you know, I didn't kill anybody. Yeah,
he didn't kill anybody. It was an accident. You know what I mean? And it was their fault.
You know what I mean? But they he did fail the the the right alphabet thing. Oh, yeah. I'm like,
I couldn't do that clean. But we were just tripping on acid. We weren't drunk or nothing like that.
And and yeah, they really screwed him over because he was a nice guy, a good guy. And he
tried to do the right thing. And totally got screwed and ended up blowing his head off right
down the street from my house, too. Yeah. But but to kill yourself, you got to have a lot of
fear of what's coming. You got to have a certain resolve, you know, and it's got to be, like you
said, it's really hard to kill somebody, you know what I mean? For the human body to just give out
right because everything in it fights it, you know? So I don't know that dude, Epstein, if I had the
pressure of the Clintons coming to get me, who knows? You know what I mean? Yeah, because it's
spooky. It's like, yeah, how do they come get you? You know, right? And then you got to sit there
in all kinds of, you know, I think the conspiracy is that the Clintons had him killed because they
didn't want him giving up any secrets and then want to make it look like a suicide. Yeah. But
the autopsy claims that because those broken vertebrae or those broken bones in his neck,
I forget what the name of the bone is. There's a bone like deep in your neck. And I guess it
out of there was a study done out of all the Hank suicides by hanging. There was like less than
a half percent where those bones were broke. Right. And this wasn't like a violent thing
where he ran and jumped off a fucking thing either. It was right in the cell. Right. What's
the percentage or ones that it is broke? They're all dead? Or did any of them live through that?
I'm not sure. Yeah, because I imagine if you got it that deep and because there's a thing on the
Americans, you ever see that show? Yeah, I got to Washington. My brother said it was good. But
the guy puts the guy up against the wall and he goes right in here. And just like what you were
saying. Yeah. And he pushes it in and just like, you know, he's done. Yeah. When the guy's like a
Russian sleeper or whatever. Hey, find out. Can you find out the name of that bone, Austin?
Okay. Yeah. Just look up Epstein autopsy bone. It'll be the first one that comes up. I think
because if you hang yourself, you're not going down here. It's going to be up here. Right. And then
the lack of oxygen afterwards. I mean, eventually that but you could be resuscitated, maybe brain
dead, you know, but if you break something here where it permanently cuts off, I think that's why
they stuck the trick down people's throats when they so they would cut their throat open and stick
something down. Yeah, it was like, yeah, there's another movie. I don't know why I'm going into
so many movies, but that nobody you ever see that one along came solid or whatever. But anyway,
he's a he's a one that he's an accountant or a cleaner when it comes in when when, you know,
you want everything to disappear. But he looks like an average Joe, he ends up getting in a fight
with these guys. He hits the guy in the neck, crushes his thing, the Russian guy, and he's on
the ground, he just cuts his throat with a knife and puts a straw in there. And the guy's gurgling,
but he lives. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah, that's I couldn't believe it. Yeah, human beings
are resilient, man. Hyoid bone. Hyoid bone. Okay. So what's it? So close that little thing. All right,
says Jeffrey Epstein's autopsy report indicates that the various bones in his neck were broken,
including the one near the Adam's apple called the hyoid bone. According to the Washington Post
report, the news is, the news is sure to add even more controversy and conspiracy theories to the
jailhouse death of the disgraced billionaire. Such breaks can occur in those who hang themselves,
particularly if they're older, according to the forensics expert who studies the subject. But
they are more common in victims of homicide by strangulation. So I don't know the exact
percent, but something's fishy. Yeah. Yeah. You're into those conspiracies and stuff? Yeah. Yeah,
you study that a lot? Yeah, I'm fascinated by them. I'm fascinated by, you know, a lot of them.
There's a famous joke that what's the difference between a conspiracy theory and the truth?
Six months. That's funny. That is funny. I like that one. So out of all the people that you met
that knew that the grim reaper was on their heels, whether they had like a death penalty and they
knew they were going to die being on death row, like what did you learn from people who knew
that they didn't have long to live? Yeah, there was a way to tap into this being okay on the inside
of your, you know, behind your thoughts, behind your, there was a way to like find peace. And
actually as long as you're breathing, doesn't matter where you are, you can take sufficient action to
alleviate it, you know, just by by surrendering and accepting there's these principles and 12
step programs. That's where a lot of this stuff I practiced and had, you know, paradigms and
ships in perspective that put words to all this stuff that happened kind of, oh, sorry. No, you're
good. Yep. That kind of happened organically, or I found out it just happens. That's the reality
of something that's going to work out and stay in reality. So these guys defied reality so long,
either they went to denial and went insane, or they surrendered and accepted reality and then
did something about it. You know what I mean? They took some action towards making good on their
bads or whatever. Some redemptive thing. But I noticed this as a universal truth that if you're
going to, like you said, there was five years where people would do good. The reason why people
sometimes give up is because doing good is not feeling good. Yeah, doing good is is
not fulfilling them somehow. Well, it's yeah, it's not meaningful because of all the the baggage
they're holding on to that they didn't deal with. So it takes about five years to clear the fog.
You see the reality of how much work you got to do, either give up or you get to work. These guys
knew to give up was just more horrible than doing something about it. Somehow they figured that out
because there's no mercy. There's no mercy. It's like give up or go crazier and it can get worse.
It can get to where you're eating your own feces and doing, you know, crazy stuff, trying to kill
yourself. All that because the brain will just won't leave you alone. Right. Just drive you nuts.
Yeah, you're gonna do something about you're gonna shit or get off the pot. One or the other.
You know what I mean? You're not going to just not deal with this. And I look at a choice. Yeah,
there's no choice. Yeah, because you think about it when you're a kid. Clean your room. No, you
know, you eventually gets to that. But at first, you're just like, I want to clean my room, you
buck a little whatever. There's no relentless coming at you, you know, unless it's abusive or
something. But, but there's mercy somewhere. There's going to be a middle ground somewhere.
There's no mercy at that point. You know what I mean? There's no, there's no coddling. There's no
forgiveness. There's no I'll do it later. Your conscience just says, you're going to do this
now or you're going to I'm going to make you crazy. You know, and I call it like unpaid tickets,
like you heard it so many times growing up, clean your room, do this stuff. You don't do it.
And then eventually the bills do. And there's no calling for help. There's no getting out of it.
You got to pay this bill now. That's what death is. You got to pay this bill right now. You know,
it's interesting way to put it. Yeah, so when so yeah, it because there's no mercy, man, it's just
not going to not going to let up on you. You don't get another five minutes, you know, sometimes
before the brain just snaps. And then you go into this other place. And even if you do, you eat
your own shit and do all this stuff, these guys still have to come to that conclusion or die that
way. You know what I mean? And some of them can't successfully die. They just got to sit in that
for years and years. The guys that had sort of accepted it and kind of faced their inner self,
so to speak. What were they like? Very, very, they didn't talk unless it was something meaningful.
There was nothing trivial. If you joked about like responsibilities or something like that,
they would not even deal with you thinking you're an idiot. You know what I mean? Like
you were joking about playing games with girls or women or whatever or or not being a good dad or
something like that. There was no time for anything trivial. When they talked, it was very deep,
very intense, very meaningful, very few words. They didn't really talk to guys like me that much.
But like I told Julian, I've always been blessed with a
psychopath just opening right up to me. I don't know why. I have no idea. But yeah,
they've always been good to me. You know what I mean? And I don't really judge. I'm just interested
in what they're saying. You know what I mean? Because it's ridiculous to try to play God.
I mean, you I can see it because even though you are big and intimidating, you have a very
disarming spirit to you. You can see why people would want to open up to you a lot.
Yeah. Oh, that's it. Is it true that you actually died at one point?
Yeah, I had a couple minutes of or the doctor said I was dead. I didn't really know. But I had this
experience and I was floating. I thought was like space. But it really and when I look back on all
this stuff, it changes over time. But it's still the same thing. But like I tried to explain before,
I thought some voice was talking to me and it was actually just revealed to me the truth of
how nobody's disconnected from anybody and that every time you think they are, that's just your
your body, your brain making making sense of something that it can't make sense. Right.
Yeah. So, you know, somebody say somebody's a you know, they're beating up old people or
doing something crazy. That person is just as much life as you are. Like in that sense, you are the
same. And what they did with their stuff and you know, why they're so the other way, those make
you think you're separated from that person. So then here we go with the prison thing where you
sit somebody in a place and let them come to terms with that. They're overriding somebody's will.
You go and bash their head. Now you're now you're overriding their will. So so you're separating
the life force even more. You know what I mean? And this is just how I look at it. I'm probably
murdering the words but but like I didn't get this when I was younger because I was very prideful
and and I'm not going to be tied up with that people or or these group of people doing this or
whatever. And it was all nonsense because your your life force has no color has no creed has no
religion has no nothing. It's the same life force. So if you're at this guy's wielding it to do what
you say is bad, then you do those things to him. You just created your own world of of that in your
world. You know what I mean? But really, it's all the same. So everybody's impacted by what you're
doing. Everybody you know what I mean? So and I brought this up a couple times. I should have
looked up who originally said I think it was Plato or something. You could judge a society by the way
it treats its prisoners. Interesting. Yeah, that if you look, yeah, look that up for me please.
So you could judge the quality of a society by the way it treats its prisoners. Because if the
whole society is like murder them, kill them, they're all a bunch of murderers and killers,
whether the guy deserved it or not. That is their their answer. You know what I mean? So now
they look justified. They look cool. They took care of the bad guy. But the next generation
don't know nothing about that scenario. They're just yelling out murder that guy. And it turns
into like make a difference support. Society should be judged not by how it treats its
outstanding citizens, but how it treats its criminals. Oh, it's from the book my mom made me
read. Dotsky F. Yeah, he wrote a crime and punishment. Yeah, scroll down. Awesome.
Interesting. That was a weird book, man. My mom had me read it. I probably he was a Russian, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know, it's funny. My mom, I don't know. I get mistaken for being intelligent
sometimes. And people give me stuff. I don't know. Yeah, man, it's a real curse because I got to go
back and tell them I'm not really. I went right over my head. Yeah. Yeah. So and it's not like
I'm tricking them. There's there is something there's an intelligent life force. I think it's
behind you. It's behind me. But we fuck it all up when we become too self aware. So I don't I
don't play with it. You know what I mean? I just kind of stay out of its way. But but my mom gave
me this book and I'm like, it's a horrible book. And it's like everybody I know that's intelligent
is like, Oh, this is a great book. And I tried to read it again. And I'm like, it's about like a
murder or something. I'm like, what the fuck is what kind of message is this? My mom started
to send me and I haven't gotten back to it. It's still sitting on my shelves. You've been
there for like 10 years. Oh, wow. But it's like the bane of my existence because that guy in that
book is always coming up. I got to read it now with the new way I look at things. That's interesting,
man. I wonder what would happen if you read it now. Yeah, because I don't have to be intelligent.
Intelligence is everywhere. You know what I mean? Like you only mess it up when you think it's yours.
Yes. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, there's also that, you know, the thought that some people have
Buddhists in particular, where, you know, they look at everyone as themselves, like everyone is me,
like you are me, I am you, like the person that you're getting about to get in a fight with the
person that you hate or whatever. If you guys are both starting from zero, and you guys go on the
same exact path, you're the same person, you guys just went on different paths, ran into different
people, different experiences, different environments and ended up in different places.
But everyone is essentially the same. Wow, that's probably where we're, yeah, because a lot of these
religions put words to stuff that I experienced. And so I just say that that seems like the truth.
That's, you know, my experience too, because that's what I mean when that's better words to
the life force thing. Yeah, the same thing. Yeah, it's like it doesn't, it doesn't matter who's
wielding it. If you, if you don't like what they do and you do what they do, then you are
condoning what they do. Right. Yeah. So, so yeah, then, yeah, that's the same. I like that then.
Yeah, I'll probably read more of their stuff to them. So yeah, going back to when you died,
how did that, how did that happen? You were like, weren't you legally like actually dead for a few
minutes? Yeah, they flew me, they flew me to a private hospital in Coral Gables. It was weird
too, because I thought I would have got arrested. The drugs? The drugs. Well, no, not the drugs,
they didn't fly me. No, I mean, is that why, why you? Oh, yeah, I did a bunch of heroin. Yeah.
Oh, heroin. I shot a bunch of a new bag or something that was over in Miami. And I was in
the Hyatt and, and I was in a nice room. I was a high maintenance. I liked a nice cold bathroom.
So I would stay in these nice rooms because it made me feel better than when I stayed in the hood
and stuff. So any chance I got, I stayed in nice places. And so I was in this place and I was with
my daughter's mother at the time. And I came out of the bathroom and I go, I did too much. I knew it.
And I went, bam, hit the ground. And I don't remember nothing after that. So she put my
gun and my drugs all up under the plants on a balcony on the high floor and then somehow
talked them into thinking she was important and not like, you know, she was not important,
but like really important. Like if I dies, this whole place will be in trouble. So they fly me
over there and they, you know, the doctor fixes me or whatever brings me back. And I remember
coming back and seeing all this stuff in this tube and being like, you guys are getting me
fucked up. You need to stop pumping that shit in. He goes, sir, that's the shit coming out of you.
And I was like, all right. And, you know, and I remember when I came back also,
they had ripped my shirt and I was so ungrateful because that piece I felt when I was in that,
that it wasn't space. It was like, it might have been space, but it was so big, but yet I was connected
to every living thing ever. And that thing that came over me was revelation that we've never been
disconnected, that I've never been disconnected. Because the first thing I asked is, where's my mom,
where's this person, you know, fuck, where's, you know, who's, you know, and it just said,
like, it didn't say anything. It just kind of, I just knew it. It relaxed me and said, relax,
the only time you've been separated from anything is, is it's been an illusion, like you made it up.
You made it up your separation from life. You made it up. It's not never been true.
And I, and I was like, wow, that's cool. And I, you know, I felt really good for the first time I
felt peace and never felt it before. I never experienced nothing. And then this, I didn't
have nothing to deter me from the experience. Right. Nobody know nothing, just a, I don't know
if it was a singular identity, but I think I only had eyes because I can only see out.
And I didn't have nothing out, nothing weighing me down. I was kind of free. And so I don't know
how to describe it more than that. But when he pulled me back, I was like hostile, pissed off,
had a headache. And, and I said to him, I was like, who ripped my shirt? You know, just nice
guys brought me back to life. And I didn't have handcuffs on, which was surprising. I still had
bullets falling out of my pocket. I was like, what's that? You know, I heard this ching,
ching, and it kept falling out of my pockets. And the doc's like, it'll look like bullets,
you know, they ain't mine. He goes, well, they ain't mine. He goes, I didn't bring bullets to
work today. You know what I mean? So he was, he was really nice and compassionate. And,
and I, you know, and he said he saved my life. So I asked me if I could forgive him about the shirt.
And I was like, yeah, all right, yeah, you're good. But yeah, he was just very,
just a good guy, saved my life. And I was a dick. I mean, because I did, I just kind of was pissed.
I really wanted to stay where I was at, you know, for the first time I found peace.
And I didn't even know what that was. It wasn't until years later that I put together
that all my pain is caused from doing things that separate me from the whole, you know, that's how
things that separate you from the whole. Yeah, like, like doing things that I know I wouldn't
give my loving caring, you know, I wouldn't love and care about somebody and tell them to do it.
But doing, doing those things, because I think I can handle it, my ego says,
I can do this, but you can't. But it, but it causes isolation, antisocial behavior.
Yeah, like those, and they identify those in these 12 step programs that I told you about.
Oh, really? I go to them all the time. Yeah, because, well, I go to a specific one,
but it's really good at introducing you to society and keeping you in it without,
if you I mean, if you do it right, you can't become a like a Tamaton, you can't go into robot mode,
you have to constantly spontaneously be in the moment without the without the brokenness,
without the fear or expressing them, you know, it's so it's a really good way to practice because
it's an environment conducive to that. If you're there to practice it, but there's so much misinformation
and so many robots or so many selfish self centered people looking to do the same thing a
different way. So you only get like one out of it's like a church or anywhere else, you'll get one
person who really grasps what they're doing here and says, this is great. And practices that the
problem is if you try to predict who else is going to do it or whatever. So sometimes it's kind of
lonely. But sometimes it's great, like everybody's just doing good. There's plenty of resources.
There's plenty of help for people that want it. There's a big environment for it. Sometimes it's
it's crazy. But I just keep doing it anyway because it's a good practice. Yeah, definitely. Yeah,
it's the near death experience thing is crazy. They say I think there's like studies that say
that the pineal gland in your forehead releases like chemicals in your brain helps you see
lights and all that. Yeah, it's like it's like a psychedelic trip or something. I've heard that.
I've heard and I've never experienced that from I've done a lot of psychedelics. I've never got
that. You know what I mean? Not to that level. That was so awesome. Like it was so comforting.
And and it's it's a kind of a thing that I don't need anything else to know that that everything
is cool. You know what I mean? Yeah, interesting. Yeah. So it's my own little personal thing. I
don't even bring it up unless somebody asks. But but it's it's just something that happened. I stumbled
upon that tells me give everything you got with anything you're doing and just live to your
potential because it's all fine anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or you could take it like that's
incredible. Yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. What what do you say to kids growing up the way you did
in an environment that you did headed down the path that you were headed down who seek out seek
out advice or don't like what do you say to them and how do you get through them? Anything anything
great. So if you're in a ship position or you're in a you're in a position where you want to grow
or you just want to be able to be you anything that anything different is going to come through
unfamiliar means. So you have to be okay with humility and and overcome your fear and that
everyone has that fear. Everyone you're not unique you're not special in that sense like you get to
experience your share of it. There are some people that hide it well and make you think they're way
more control than they really are. So so don't let that deter you from you know because if I could
have been so much smarter if I would say I don't know I don't know that I just been using that for
like 10 years now I don't know and it works great for learning but yeah yeah and you don't have to act
smart. No act dumb you learn more and I used to just keep my mouth shut like and I don't know and
I'm afraid to ask because you look like you know this stuff naturally you know what I mean right
and a lot of them are faking some are you know intelligent people whatever but here's the thing
if you're a kid growing up don't let nothing fear you to not express where you're at like in this
moment and if if you got people around you like it kind of sucks because when you're a kid you're
kind of thrown in with a lot of stuff like I got I got I don't know if I should speak about that
because I'm working on I'm working with somebody right now and it's still going so but um
so you're kind of locked in to as a kid you have to be certain places you know as a minor
you have to be sorry now you're gonna I gotta fix my but sorry about that race that
so as a as a as a person who's not independent you're locked into certain areas it doesn't
mean you have to conform to everything but as far as like so if I was a kid and I was in a rough
environment like I was growing up and it was kind of crazy how I could have did it now if I look back
on it is I had there was always some person that's like a I used to call him like do gurus or
I didn't even know what they were at the time it's like all of a sudden I'm hanging out with this
person going to these places I've heard some horrible stories about that but I've had good people
that one person out of all the mess would show up and say you want to go to this monster truck
thing or whatever and what they were doing was trying to help me and I didn't even know I needed
help when I look back on it now and I help a lot of people I realized there's always that one person
around that you can talk to it's just you don't see them being helpful to you you know I mean but
they got 30 or 40 trips around the sun they got tons of experience so you don't open your mind to
the fact that you could be you don't know everything you think you know this guy's willing to show you
that it's okay to not know everything yeah and so but that gets tricky because like all the fear
they put on these shows and there's like all kinds of crazy shit but I got people sometimes that
you know put their kids in my pretty much my you know to take care of them or just like help them
learn the stuff like kind of like these guys did for me different times in my life and and
so if they have a person like that it doesn't matter who they are if they're willing to listen
and share their experience with living you know I tell these kids man try to try to use that
you know what I mean try to use that I had to do it with my nephew a few years back I kind of had
custody of him 12 year he was at the time he was nine and there were so many things I had to
work through with him and then you know even to this day now now his dad's there doing a great
job and and helping him work through now but at one time it was you know I had to figure this out
and and it was tough you know what I mean but he learned that he can come to me and he does he
decompresses I'll say let's take a ride and we'll go take a ride in the truck and he'll just start
blabbing about everything and I just let him go and go and go you know what I mean and and the
reason being is he's decompressing you know what I mean and I don't need to judge it I don't need
to stop him or correct him I wait and then there's a question at the end of it so what do you do if
this happens you know what I mean I just answer it and I don't pay any mind to uh dramatically acting
over some crazy words he might say or whatever you know I mean I just kind of let him get it all out
so if you got a guy like that I've been able to do it with my nephews I got a couple of them you
know ones now he's a 50 partner in the moving business you know he's doing great I mean I
couldn't be prouder of all my nephews but uh so so they're luckily I didn't know when I was doing
this turnaround so here's the biggest thing if you fight your demons you turn that around inside of
you you're automatically a help every time you show up because two things one you're mastering
yourself so you're not all crazy so you're not contributing to the problems two you know how to
get out of all these problems right so it's not I'm not telling you something that I didn't do
that was the difference between growing up and hearing and hearing actors say because they were
all actors yeah they didn't really go inside first and it's not their fault nobody's the
blame for that but but I found out that that's not enough you know what I mean and I was willing to
go to any lengths to find out why is this bothering me so much that what you say and what you're doing
is two different things right I didn't know why it bothered me so much but it always I can always
prove that what you're saying is not the truth in your life so why are you giving it to me
you know what I mean and and in that sense I was really sharp because I could see that in a second
and I lost hope and in people right yeah so I did that at an early age and um and what I didn't know
was that they're just trying to make it you know what I mean and so I just took it like everybody's
full of shit just you know lie whatever you gotta do get back to living in your head where it's safe
right yeah that's fascinating man well thank you very much for coming in on here and sharing your
story where can people find you reach out to you contact you I'm always in southwest Florida I mean
I've got I don't want like an open line I got tons of people but if if my experience is anything
like a certain like you have experienced that certain stuff you will you'll find me you know
what I mean and if they reach out to you and they say hey you know that's what happened with Julian too
some good guy you know he had some questions and and I was able to help and quite a few people
actually really through that yeah and that's all I really care about I don't care about um
money, property, personal, I work for what I need I do this because I I really think it's
needed and uh I mean you probably can't even I from my description I can't figure out what exactly
I do other than stay out of the way of good and try to help good yeah yeah that's about it so I
don't know what they call that but you're an inspiration man yeah definitely you're definitely
that I appreciate it man that's awesome yeah there's a lot of a lot of people that get impacted
what I hear the most is if you can do it I can do it right and that's what I that's the truth
anybody can turn their life around if they can realize their solutions not coming from you
know kind of like uh Einstein one of those smart guys said you can't get out of a problem with the
same thinking that you got into the problem or something like that I'm murdering right but you
get what I mean yeah yeah so if you can get an open mind enough to say you know what that guy was
there I felt like I was there he's here and that lines up then you'll you'll find me or you'll find
a guy like me and if you really think I can help then you know just reach out to you and I'll call
him awesome man yeah well thanks again for doing this it was fascinating and I really enjoyed it
cool all right man goodbye everybody take care
