Hello Chris. Hello Daniel. It's a pleasure to have you in here today. It's a pleasure
to be here. I've been looking forward to doing this podcast for a long time. I've been dreading it.
We got a lot of stuff to cover today. I've been through... I've had Ben in here, Ben
Kirkwick. I'm from Uncharted X a couple times now. And he's talked a lot about some of the stuff
that you've been working on for the past few decades. He and I are both huge fans of your work.
He obviously cites all of your work when he does his stuff and when he goes to the pyramids and
reports some of the stuff in his videos on Uncharted X. And that's how I actually first
discovered you was from when Ben came on here about a year ago. After he came in, I read your
book, The Geese of Power Plant. Twice, just finished reading your new book, The Tesla Connection,
which was mind-bending to say the least. Maybe you could give us sort of a brief background
on your history and how you got interested in the pyramids of ancient Egypt.
I was raised in a working class family in Manchester, England. And my father was a butcher
and my mother was a housewife. And I have four siblings, a brother and three sisters.
So it was a very loving household. And I ultimately decided at the age of 15 that I was done with
school. And I pled out to take an apprenticeship and was hired by a company called Mother and Plants.
They were an engineering company in Manchester. And so at the age of 15, I entered the apprenticeship
program and worked there as an apprentice for six years. I started out when, as I recall,
my paycheck was like $7 a week for 40 hours. Oh, wow. Right. So apprentices were not paid
much back then. I mean, if you go back to the really old days, like Victorian times,
apprentices, parents, fathers would take their sons to apprentice with a tradesman, a craftsman.
And they would pay them to take them and teach them a trade. Or they would work for nothing.
But they would kind of stay with the tradesman, a craftsman, and serve their apprenticeship
away from home. Right. So anyway, this was kind of like an indentured
apprentice. Actually, I have my documents, indentures that I was given when I completed
my apprenticeship. And then I left the company as a journeyman specializing in lathes.
In lathes. Lathes. What is a lathes? Latheturning. What is that? It's a machine tool that is used
for machining parts, round parts, particularly, very precise round parts, all kinds of lathes.
They're vertical lathes, horizontal lathes. And they've developed over the years,
they're capstone lathes, turret lathes, tool room lathes, you know, every one of them has
different features. So that was my specialty at the time. And I took that with me and went to work
elsewhere when I was 22. Worked at a forge for a bit. And then I went to work at a company called
Hunter Muscrup. And they made paper milling machinery, textile milling machinery, really,
really long shafts and rollers and stuff like that for the industry. While I was there, I saw
an ad in the Manchester Evening News, and it was an aerospace company in the states that were
recruiting machinists to work in the aerospace industry. What year was this?
That would have been around 1968. Okay.
So 1968, I applied for the position. And I got a telegram saying that I had been selected.
And I had to get a visa to come to the states and start working. So I finally left the shores of
my home country in 1969 and landed in New York on May the 9th, 1969.
Okay. So you came to the U.S. and around 68 to work for the aerospace company.
Yeah. And what exactly were you doing for those guys?
Well, they hired me to run a vertical lathe called, they call them bullets.
Bullard. B-U-L-L-A-R-D. You've got millions of machinists around the states who will recognize
that word. Okay. What does a bullet look like?
It's a vertical lathe. It's like they've got a round chuck and then you've got the typical axes
that move a turret so that you can cut inside and outside diameters.
Oh, is this a bullet? Okay. That's an intense looking machine. Wow.
Yeah. Before, when I was in England, I run a Webster and Bennett. So in England, they call them
boring, boarers, vertical boarers. Okay. And in the states, they call the vertical lathe.
So what sort of, so can you explain to me what this thing is doing here?
Well, right now it's just sitting there. There's no part, but if you see that, there's a chuck there.
Yeah. Okay. So you, you mount a, a part to be machined on the chuck and the, that hexagon kind
of thing that has, that's not a hexagon, is it? But it's, it has a tool post and you mount tools
in the tool post and cut the parts on the outside and inside different shapes.
What kind of materials? Well, in aerospace, you're, you're talking about exotic allies like
Encanal, Hastaloy X. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
High heat resistant, corrosion resistant allies. When I first came to the States, I was in,
I worked for a place in Martinsville, Indiana called Twig Industries.
And Twig Industries, they were a subcontractor for some of the major EOMs like General Electric,
Allison Engine, which is now Rolls Royce and Indianapolis, Brown and Whitney and other
aerospace companies. So they did a lot of aerospace stuff, including stuff for the,
the, the moon landing. Oh, really? Yeah.
What kind of stuff did you guys engineer for the moon landing?
Well, they, they were a manufacturer. They didn't necessarily design it or engineered it. They
engineered the processes. Okay. It was a framework for the survival pack for the astronauts when they
went on the, landed on the moon and did their moonwalk, that box affair that they had on their
back, right? That box on their back. You guys made that?
The framework for it. Yeah. It was a well done.
What is that box on the back? What does it do?
It's their survival. I guess it provides, you know, heat and cooling to their suits,
keeps the temperature. Okay.
Regulate it and monitors their, you know, their physical functions and, and that stuff.
Okay. Wow. That's fascinating.
I actually, they had, obviously they had made that before I got there
because the moon landing was in June, right? The month after I arrived.
Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah. It was good timing.
It was interesting. You know, there's, there's a thing about manufacturers and, and, you know,
inside jokes and the way people talk about the company and stuff like that, right? So it's like
there was a, you know, one old, one old bagger said something. He said, well, we know,
we know that the astronauts are going to come, come back, you know, they'll make it back
because everything Tweek makes always comes back eventually.
So in other words, it's kind of like, and if everything I make has got flaws,
so it's going to come back. Oh, God. Well, at least you got a sense of humor.
Well, you got to have a sense of humor. Right. Of course. Yeah. It's valuable.
So how long did you work for this company?
And, and I've worked for about a year, just under a year.
Oh, okay. In Martinsville, yeah.
Okay. And what'd you do after that?
Then I went briefly to Texas and then I worked at a very small shop in Indianapolis. I came back
to Indiana and worked in a very small shop. They made drapery, machinery and wheel balance
in equipment. Wheel balancing equipment. Yeah. So it was, yeah, it was, it was 1970.
So we were kind of heading into a recession at that time.
And so it was very hard, very difficult to find work. So I just got the best job I could get at
the time. And then after that, I went to a place called Bula, which was known as Indiana Gear
Company. They made gears for helicopters and other aerospace kind of products. So.
Okay. So what is the process when you're working for these companies that are making these gears
or any of these aerospace pieces or parts? Like what, what is the process to actually
creating them? Like you're operating this big machinery. So does people send you plans or
like schematics for how this needs to be done and what, what materials they need to be done with?
And then you guys sort of figure out how the cuts are going to be made and all that. How does that
process work? Yeah. Generally, the manufacturing process that I have experienced and, you know,
every company is different, of course. But what, what I've experienced is that the company
will receive an order from a customer that will include drawings and specifications.
Some of the specifications around the drawing others are in a separate sheet, but they will
control the process. So the engineers will then take those drawings and design a process
and create their own drawings, breaking out all the various elements of the, of the drawing. So
if the drawing has multiple parts, assemblies, subassemblies associated with like, like a jet
engine, scroll through here and put up. So essentially you've got various parts to a jet engine and
and they're comprised of individual single parts. Those single parts could be made of sheet metal.
They could be forgins, castings and, and they are basically cut, welded, machined, formed
in all different kinds of configurations and then put together. They may be brazed,
welded together, which would include maybe spot welding or, you know, TIG welding.
And then those subassemblies are then shipped to the customer and the customer
installs them in their engine. Interesting. While, while we're on this drawing, we'll,
we'll talk about some of the elements. One of them, the principal elements of the shapes that
you find in a jet engine is a truncated cone. Right. Right. Okay. So the truncated cone is,
will appear in just about every section of the engine from the front end to the aft end.
But anyway, getting back to that process, the, the manufacturing engineers will submit a plan
to their production. Then production will review the plan. The engineer will have tools, dies,
fixtures, gauges ordered from suppliers or to be made internally. And then everything will come
together with that particular part that is designed to produce and, and inspect. Okay.
So accuracy, the complexity of, of these parts is very, very, it's, they are unique
because you have the application of geometries such as a airfoil shape or something like that.
This kind of, it's applied to a truncated cone or other, other parts. And then they're supposed to,
they're supposed to fit with precision. You cannot allow for any variation from
of accuracy, no variation whatsoever. Right. You have certain tolerances that you work with them.
Right. It may be one, two thousands, sometimes maybe 20,000. But you have to stay within those
tolerances. Otherwise, the part is no good. Wow. It could be either scrapped or you'll,
you may have to rework it, which just adds cost and reduces, reduces your profits. Right.
Wow. The pointers is that when it comes to public safety, you know, there is,
you have to follow due diligence. Right.
And that is with, that is with the, the people you hire from engineers down to toolmakers,
to machinists, to production employees. All of them are obligated to adhere to very tight
standards. This is an example of probably something that requires the upmost precision
than probably anything on earth because you're building engines that are on planes that are
carrying hundreds of people. Right. So I, I'm, I assume like even building skyscrapers,
you don't have to be as precise as you have to be when creating something like this,
which contains, I'm sure, millions of very tiny parts and different types of materials
that fit together that create the entire thing. They say when they ship a jet engine, say like a,
you know, a large trans-engine Rolls-Royce, maybe ship to a customer, the paperwork that
goes with it, all the certifications weighs more than the engine. Wow. That's incredible.
Yeah. So it's, it's a, and your son works for Rolls-Royce, by the way, that's a little
interesting aside. Your son is working at the aerospace division of Rolls-Royce.
Yes. Yeah. That's amazing. Working in, in metrology, though. The reason I want to share
this with you is because it does have an, an impact on the way somebody who is from this
industry or even any kind of manufacturing industry, the way they look at ancient Egyptian artifacts
and how they interpret what they, what they see. And, and I think it also creates,
what has created a bit of a schism, you know, between manufacturers and, and
technophiles, you know, those who are really into, you know, they have some technical, technical
education, even though it's not identical to, say, another field. You, you will have certain
experience in technology, you know, maybe it's media or account, you know,
photography or electronics or things like that. And so your brain is wired a certain way.
But you don't have the, the shop experience of actually going down into the shop and, and
creating these artifacts and, and knowing, you know, knowing what can change something
to make it not workable. And there can be very, very slight, very slight changes
that will say the geometry on a cone. It doesn't have to change very much
for it to be, for it to be scrapped. Right. So if you misinterpreted a drawing,
you know, or something like that, just, and, and cut something out of, out of print, then,
then you scrapped it. At what point did you become aware of some of the artifacts and
the pyramids and everything in ancient Egypt? That was in 1977. Okay. Yeah. And I was working
as a tool and die maker and the, in Indianapolis. And I was going, I was in a bookstore and I saw
this book by Peter Tompkins and that's me there. Oh, wait a minute. Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah, we didn't
talk about this. Oh, you want to talk about it? Yeah, let's talk about it. What is this? I don't
know. If I tell you about that, I may have to kill you. It'll be worth it. No, it won't. It's no big
deal. But yeah, there's a story behind it. Wait, you really can't tell the story? Well,
yeah, I guess I could. So what is this plane and where is it? That is a F 117. And that is a,
the, you know, the stealth fighter. Yes. Oh, yeah. In the desert, desert star. And which part of this
plane did you build? Well, well, I am not going to claim that I actually cut those parts that you
see on that plane. But there was a period of time I was running a laser job shop in Indianapolis.
A laser job shop? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Which, what does that mean in English?
Well, we're using high powered lasers to cut aircraft materials. Okay. Right. So the, I was
working for a company called Reddick Engineering. And Reddick was a great guy, right? And I was
trying to, I was encouraging him to get into lasers because I was, I've become fascinated with lasers.
And, and he actually went to an auction and bought, bought a Perkins Elmer,
Helium Leon laser with retro reflector and target for alignments and stuff like that.
And he comes, wheels it over to my back. There you go, bloke. See what you can do with that.
Wow. Right. What are one of those lasers costs? Well, I don't know what he paid for it,
but it wasn't much because he was a cheap bastard. Yeah, I got an auction. No, he was a good guy.
Yeah. But a cheap bastard. Some of the best guys are cheap bastards. Aren't you though? Yeah.
Yeah. So anyway, but the one day a guy comes in with these panels, right? And he wanted me to set
them up in the laser and cut these rectangular holes in them. Okay. But they were on compound
angles. And it was a, an array of them, right? In the square. Yeah. So I set them up, programmed
the laser and, and, and cut those little squares. And then I go to, I see the, the F 117. I'm looking
at the air intake on the front. And it's like, those look remarkably like those panels. Wow.
And the engineer that brought them in, I was like, Hey, what? I was always very curious about
where, where this stuff went, you know, what, what he was used for, what the application was,
what, what are these for? What are these for? And he goes, I can't tell you.
Actually, you're not cutting, you're burning it. The laser burns it, it doesn't cut it. Wow.
Right. So anyway, that's that story. That's amazing. Yeah. So
the secret. So this is the first book that you came across about the pyramids in Egypt?
Yeah, that was, uh, 1970. That cover is interesting looking. You
saw the dirt that's coming up the side of the pyramids, all the sand or whatever it is?
That is, uh, yeah, that is a, uh, an honest impression. I mean, it's, uh,
I don't, I don't think it's accurate, but it is true that the pyramids, they had a lot of sand and,
uh, and also rubble because the, uh, the pyramids were pretty much,
uh, destroyed most of the casing stones that had been shaken off in history.
The official theory is that they were, they were used to build the mosques and maranettes of Cairo
and they were, they were using the whole Giza plateau as a quarry.
Um, and the signs of, of that too, that they were, they were actually doing some quarrying out there.
You see, you see evidence of, uh, Roman, uh, quarry marks, particularly to the south of the
second pyramid. Okay. Kaffiris pyramid. Okay. And you'll, you'll find, uh, a lot of granite blocks,
some of them still in situ up against the pyramid. Others laying out in the field to the south and
they will, they will have these, uh, these slots or grooves cut into them, uh, where they, they
try to wedge, you know, cut them into pieces and succeed in some cases. Wow. Yeah. And the
interesting thing there is that, um, you're talking about, you're talking about the actual,
the, like the dynastic Egyptians were doing that. Um, I don't think it was the dynastic
Egyptian. Okay. I, I believe it was, I think it was the Romans. Oh, the Romans. Okay. Right.
Because, uh, you, in other parts of the world, you'll see the same kind of technique that they use
for, uh, for quarrying. Okay. All right. Okay. Got it. And then the question is, if the dynastic
Egyptians built the pyramids, right, why would they proceed to tear them apart? They tear,
how'd they tear them apart? Well, you, you know, you say, well, to the dynastic Egyptians, uh,
create those quarry marks, but they were actually stripping the granite away from the pyramid.
And so it really doesn't make sense to build a pyramid and put out, you know,
go to the trouble of putting all that beautiful granite against it and then, you know,
taking a hammer and chisel. Like the casing stones and stuff like that. They were stripping it away.
Right. Right. So I think they, uh, who was the first person to come up with the idea that the
dynastic Egyptians are responsible for the pyramids? Who was the first person? Or the
first group or the, where did that come from? Uh, well, that has been in the official literature for
a long time. Uh, didn't you say that like it was written by Europeans, that history?
Most of, yeah, the Egyptian history, most of the Egyptian history was, uh, written by
earlier Egyptologists, which were, uh, Europeans. So, uh, in England, uh, Flinders Petrie, well,
in Flinders Petrie was considered to be, uh, England's or Britain's first Egyptologist,
Mariette, August Mariette, French in, in France. Um, and so, you know, the Europeans were very
active, uh, in studying Egyptian artifacts and, and also, you know, taking a few home with them.
Yeah. A lot. A lot of them home with them. So they, uh, you know, as far as the, you know,
assigning the time period for the building of the pyramids, um, I, because the pyramids were assigned
to a particular king in a period of time, uh, they, they placed them in the fourth dynasty.
The fourth dynasty. Fourth dynasty, right. So it's like 20, 2400 BC, something like that.
And when did you first go to Egypt? Uh, 86. 86, okay. Right, 86. Yeah, they, uh, that was, uh,
it was different in 86. It was, uh, it was very chaotic and, uh, it was a bit of a culture shock
for me. But the interesting thing was I was, I was really nervous because I'd already, uh,
I'd already been writing, you know, uh, about my theory on the great pyramid, which, uh,
occurred to me in 1977. And so when I, when I actually came face to face with the, with the
pyramids, which anybody who writes about the pyramid must, must visit it eventually. Yeah.
Right. You'd think. You'd think. Sooner rather than later, I was much later than I'd hope.
That's the way things work. So I didn't know. So you started writing about this before you
actually visited Egypt. I did, yeah. What prompted you to begin writing about it? And,
well, and where were you getting your information from? Well, that's the thing. You see, I was,
and that really heavily influenced my mind because I was looking at the pyramid and
schematics of the pyramid, uh, as a, an engineered product, uh, that had the precision of a machine.
It's football season, baby. And you know what time it is. Time to gamble all that hard-earned
money on some sports. As a better, you demand perfection. And that's where my bookie delivers.
NFL college football and a brand new cash out system give you the options to bet and win
all season long. First two legs of your parlay already hit. You can cash it out early and place
another bet or sweat it out and let it ride for a chance at an even bigger payday. Join the my
bookie family for an entire season filled with daily odds boosts, same day parlays and super
contests. And this season, my bookie has a no strings attached cash bonus that lets you deposit
and withdraw quick. Use the promo code DJP on a deposit of $50 or more and you can receive up to
$200 cash instantly into your my bookie account. Bet your deposit amount once and you're ready to
withdraw at any time. Again, that's promo code DJP to claim your cash deposit bonus. You can
bet anything, anytime, anywhere, only with my bookie. It was a kind of an evolution of that,
that thinking, uh, gathering all the information from, uh, Tomkins book,
which included the pyramids and temples of Giza, uh, and while it was contained in there,
that, um, I became convinced that, uh, the, the efforts for building the great pyramid,
it did seem to me that the, the culture, uh, that built it was much more advanced in terms of, uh,
the technical manufacturing capabilities anyway, uh, and, uh, than what we have been taught.
So that, that is clearly evident. And I, and I think that has been supported by
most engineers who, uh, and technicians who have been over there and, and actually started to study
them with, uh, with that thought in mind. Were you the first person to come up with the theory
that the pyramid was a power plant? Guilty. Let me back up a little bit. There was, I mean,
there was a general period of time in the seventies where, um, there was a lot of interest in
something that they called pyramid power in that the, uh, the pyramids have by just by the shape
of a pyramid is had this, uh, kind of energetic value. Uh, so there was a lot of, uh, talk about
that. There was a book written by Patrick Flanagan, um, back in the seventies. It was called
pyramid power. Um, there were other books written that referred to the great pyramid with talking
about pyramid power. Um, but there was a kind of a mystical kind of power rather than a practical.
Mystical how so? Um, something that was not quantified in, uh, physical terms, three dimensional
terms. Not measured. Not measured. It's more like something that we didn't quite understand.
Quantified. And was that based on like people standing in the pyramids and
it's based on a lot of, uh, yeah, a lot of that kind of information or that those experiences,
it was more an experiential kind of, uh, experience, uh, an experiential experience.
Scratch that. Right. Uh, no, it was more, it was more an observation.
Okay. Subjective. Subjective in a lot of ways. Um, some of it was, you know, they tried to measure
it, uh, but they were measuring effects rather than identifying what kind of energy it was.
Okay. Uh, the, the sharp and razor blade experiment was very popular back then where
the pyramid was said to, if you put a razor blade inside of the parent, a pyramid shape,
then the blade would stay sharp for longer. What? Yeah. So it had a lot of different, uh,
a lot of different values. Is that true? Does a razor blade stay sharper,
longer if you keep it inside the pyramid? Um, I tried that. And, you know, I did it. I said,
well, I'm going to try it. So I, I used a razor blade for a little longer than I, you know,
that I, I thought, but then I had a, um, you know, the thought in my mind was that
doing those kind of experiments, those are already done. Uh, what was needed was a complete
kind of reverse engineering of the structure, um, uh, to determine and find answers for every
single part of it. Right. Uh, what was originally designed into it. Um, what was introduced afterwards
that was not a part of the design, what, uh, the operation of the, uh, the pyramid, what
effects that may have had in certain areas. And so there is quite a lot of, uh, quite a lot of
information, uh, that I had to go through to find answers for. A lot of mystery, a lot of mystery.
Can you do a, in your book, you do a beautiful job of explaining reverse engineering.
Can you give me the rundown on how you reverse engineer something?
Well, it's very simple. It's kind of, it's like, if somebody comes to you with a,
uh, say you're a manufacturer and somebody comes to you with a product that already exists.
Um, they don't have any drawings. They don't have any, uh, any specifications on it at all.
And they say, I want you to make this. I want you to make this exactly like this.
And if you do that, then it was going to function the way I think it will. Okay.
So you make it identical to the original. What do you do? You take the piece, you take it to the lab,
you measure every single part of it, how many parts are actually in it,
and then you detain a process on how you would reproduce it. Right? Okay.
And then you reproduce it. And, um, then you compare it to the original and say, okay,
does this look like the original? Is it similar to the, is it made the same? Measure, measure it to
measure it. Measure it, measure it. It's not just a matter of saying looking at it and saying, yeah,
that's close. Okay. It's like, no, you got to measure it. Um, and you got to be very exact.
Okay. Now, the other part to reverse engineering is to try and determine
what goes on inside an engine or inside a device, a machine, a complex machine,
any complex machine, how it functions based on its output.
Um, when you can't see what's inside, right? So the first thing you've got to do is open it up
and then you try and determine through examining every single component inside it, how it functions.
I mean, manufacturers do that all the time. So it's basically, it's the reverse of,
the reverse effect of engineering something, which is when you're engineering something,
you say, hey, I want something that achieves this. I want something that performs this task.
And that's when you're engineering, you say, okay, how do you perform this task? We put this
thing together, we build the parts that we think are going to do this and then measure everything and
then. Measurement, design and function. Measurement, design and function. Right.
Oh, you measure, you know, you, you analyze the design, you take measurements.
And you figure out the function. And you determine what the function is.
And engineering is the opposite. Engineering something is function.
You have a particular function that you want a device to perform. And so
then you do the design and then you build the product. Right.
Using the measurements. Right.
When you started writing about the pyramids and you were sort of, I guess you were sort of like
seeing sort of diagrams in the seventies had already been done and all of the chambers that
are known about today had already been discovered and you sort of knew what it looked like.
Yeah. And you, you just assumed that, you know, there's no way something this precise
with these weird shafts and compartments and voids was built for a tomb. You thought intuitively
that it looked like something that had a function. I did. Yeah. Let me, let me see if I can bring up
cross section of the great pyramid. So this is an image out of my book and the,
the different features on the inside is what really caught my attention. Okay.
We'll start with the, the downward, the downward shaft, which is this particular
Yeah. shaft right here. Sorry.
So this shaft right here over the constructed portion of it from the opening here down to the
bedrock was straight within the thickness of a thumbnail. That is 20,000 seven inch.
Okay. The passageway, it's called the descending passage. The passageway is
around 40 inches square. I think it's like, yeah, around 40 inches square.
And it goes down 350 feet to this bedrock chamber. The entire length from the outside of 350 foot
long is only out one quarter of an inch. And that is also the, the excavated portion.
40 inches wide. I, I assume people haven't been down there, right?
I've been down there. You, how do you get down there?
I wouldn't get down there today, obviously. You go 300 feet down a 40 inch tunnel.
Yeah. People, people still do this?
People do that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
Is it all lit up and stuff for people to like, is it?
Yeah. There are lights. There are lights along there. And, you know, you, you get down into
the subterranean chamber and some people have even gone into this shaft right here.
This cut even smaller than the 40 inches. There was a, there was a story about that. I mean,
in my book on a tour that I was, that I co-hosted in 2018. There was a geologist,
an engineer, actually, two engineers. One, Andy Leskowitz. He went down to the end of that,
of that shaft. How wide is that little shaft on the end of that chamber?
It's very small. I mean, I wouldn't fit in it. You might.
When I was a lot younger, I would have, I would have gladly gone down there.
So this, this cross-section of the pyramid, this was available in the 70s. Everyone knew about
all of these chambers and these shafts were all known then.
All except for I.
I, right. I is the recent one which was found by the ScanPyramids project.
Yes, exactly. Okay.
Yeah. So I, the, the big void that was discovered in
2017, something like that.
Okay. So you saw this and what was the first thing that went through your head?
It was really weird. It was very mysterious because I was like, what's going on here?
You know, I am like, this, this is, there's something going on here and I don't know.
I didn't know what it was. I was like, but it's just so mysterious.
And I, I just, I, then I just sat down and I started to draw these three-dimensional
drawings of the different chambers, right? And the, and then, you know, just looking at it,
it was, and trying to figure out what each of those chambers was used for became my passion.
But the thing that struck me the most is the, the incongruity of the, the shafts,
the small shafts. There's a, there's a story behind those that is
quite exciting really, but it's, it's really, they're really, really important
to the function of the machine. So yeah, all of that struck me immediately with the,
the precision, just the, the angles, the different shapes. It was all very machine-like
to me. And I think, you know, when it comes to saying that the pyramid was a machine
to produce energy, then yeah, I was probably the first to actually put that out.
What type of machine do you believe that this pyramid is and how does it work?
In my first book, I called, it's called the Geyser Power Plant, as you know.
And, yes. Okay. So the Geyser Power Plant described the great pyramid. I described it as a,
a coupled oscillator in that it was connected to the earth.
Its proportions were an integer to the earth, and it was tuned harmonically to the,
the vibrations of the earth. That was what I proposed. And as such, it reacted to
the, the earth's pulse of the earth's harm vibrations. And, and there, through that,
they were able to stimulate electron flow in the central granite chamber
and, and produce microwave energy. So basically, I described it as a
amazer, but it was like a solid state, amazer. A solid state electron harvester.
Well, that's what I ultimately, I called it, yeah, it was a electron harvester.
And so that, that was in my first book. I didn't call it an electron harvester.
Oh, that was until the new book. Okay.
Yeah. Well, you know, I realized that, you know, a lot of people will look at
that the word power plant and they, the vision that comes to their mind is like smoke stacks,
you know, long trains of coal snaking through the country side to these power plants.
And so, you know, kind of, and then of course, you know, power plant and nuclear power plant,
coal power plant and stuff like that. Right.
So it's generally associated with boiling water, creating steam, pushing turbines and,
and drawing the electrons off the generators. But the, this was kind of like a different concept
in terms of creating, creating energy or drawing energy from the earth directly without,
without burning fossil fuels or smashing atoms.
So underneath and the cover of the Giza power plant, you have the pyramids sitting in the desert
and then underneath that, you have like the, it looks like lava underneath and then like the,
the crust of the earth. So I guess you're describing that seismic activity that's happening
under inside of the earth, creating vibrations that are resonating with all the rocks in the
pyramid. Yeah, that is a, that cover was a, created by my publisher, Bear and Company,
their artist. And basically, it does represent what you just said. Okay.
You know, I mean, as far as strict accuracy to engineering
drawings that you don't see that there, but it loosely gives you an idea. Okay.
Right. It represents the pyramid, energy coming out of the pyramid,
it's connection to the earth and energy going on inside the earth that is tapping into it.
So you theorize that the pyramids were harvesting energy and generating energy to power whatever
civilization created them. Yeah. And how do they get power from the pyramids?
How do they get it? How do they use it? Oh, how do they use it?
Yeah. That is a good question. It's a question I get asked a lot. The problem that we have is
when you look at the pyramids, so you go to Egypt and you, you walk around the pyramids
in the temples, you're looking, you look at the skeleton of a civilization. Obviously,
there's so much that's missing that has disappeared over time. Right.
We don't know why. And so when you ask the question, well, what were they powering?
You know, we don't find any microwave ovens out in the desert. So, you know,
and you probably won't. You know, the only thing that really survived from that period of time
was the rocks. The rocks. Yeah. Right. So you, and, you know, some other
materials, but the rocks basically survived. And it's a matter of, you know, then again,
you know, it's like, okay, so we, what we're left with is the rocks. So what do we do? We
take measurements. We look at the design. We, we analyze the effects of certain spaces like
the king's chamber, the effects of that chamber with the acoustic effects of it, the acoustic effects
of the grand gallery. So there's a lot, a lot that we can, we can study to try and come up with some,
some answers as to how it, how it functioned and what it did. And it's an evolving,
I would, I would call it like it's, I would say that it's a, kind of like an international
brainstorming session. Right. So I, I, I mean, if you ask me what my whole role is in, in this,
in this thing, I would say I, I'm just like, I'm a mechanic that comes across an engine in the
desert and I'm trying to figure out what the engine does. Right. And so in order to figure it out,
I need a lot of help. I need the assistance of experts in different fields, physicists,
electrical engineers, acoustic engineers, you know, geologists, materials engineers,
all of those right people have, have input. And so that's what I did. I talked to civil
engineers, I talked to electrical engineers, I talked to mechanical engineers as I was developing
the theory for the book. Okay. And when you first traveled to Egypt and went inside the pyramid,
what did you discover from your experience, from your personal experience being there,
going inside the chambers? Did that have any sort of effect? I'm sure it did on some of the
writing you did previous to that. Profound effect. Profound effect. The, just the experience of being
there is just mind blowing. Whether you're writing about it or, you know, just a general tourist. I
mean, I've seen people really affected tremendously just by, you know, going into great pyramid.
But the, as far as how, did it affect, did it affect my perception or ideas or
what the great pyramid was? I was worried, I was extremely worried that it would
when I went there. And I, you know, I was on my way to Egypt and I'm thinking,
well done. What have you done now? You know, you're going to Egypt and well, if it's all,
not as you read, it's something totally different and you're just going to leave thinking, okay,
well, I just wasted, you know, six years of my life or whatever. Right.
So, yeah, I was, I was concerned about that. And that actually kept me away from the great
pyramid. I didn't go into the great pyramid for three days. It was like I was, you know,
eyeing it warily from a distance. I like, yeah, didn't want to go up there.
You're afraid, you're afraid that might kill, kill your dream.
Yeah. Yeah, there was a bit of nervousness there. There was also a lot of, you know,
I don't know. I don't know, just a, a climatizing to the, to the culture there was kind of difficult
back in the 86s. It's a lot easier these days. So, but anyway, the third day I was the fourth
day I went up and paid to go in and went in, made, did a few checks and it was like, oh, it's fine.
And, and the, you know, it just, the different dimension that it provides,
it's not just a, you know, a clinical review of a, of, of books, many different books that I,
that I accessed over the years when I was studying it. It wasn't, it wasn't just a clinical
analysis at that point. It became a living thing. It was kind of like, you know, a totally different
dimension. It's one thing to read a story, it's another thing to live it. Right. It's like, yeah.
Okay. So I'm looking at lines on paper and now I'm inside those lines. Right.
And then after that, I went outside and pondered on, pondered on the whole thing
and started to wander around the plateau. But that's when I started to look, I started to look at
a lot of the casing, the casing stones and the stones on the south of the, of the
Caphras pyramid, the second pyramid. So I'm walking around there and I'm looking at these,
what I consider to be really, really sharp and flat, sharp angles, sharp corners,
very well cut stone with flat surfaces. And then some other unusual shape stones that looked like
they were extremely precise. But this was in 86 and I, I didn't have any, any tools or instruments
with me to, to see if indeed what I was looking at was actually precise. Right. And you can't
really tell by, by looking at the photograph, just how, or looking at it with your eyes,
just exactly how, how precise it is. You have to measure it. Right. Okay. Right. Okay. So that's
what I, when I left, I, I had that in mind that next time I go, I need to take some instruments
with me and check, check things out a little closer. And how long did it take for you to
go back? 1995. Oh, wow. Okay. It was in, you remember, in 1993,
they, Rudolph Gantembrink did the exploration of the Southern Shaft in the Queen's Chamber.
Okay. Who was Rudolph Gantembrink? Gantembrink was a German robotics engineer.
And he was, he was commissioned by the, the German mission in Cairo to clean out the shafts
because they wanted to install some ventilation in them to protect the monument. So he was,
he was contracted to go to Egypt, send up, he designed and built a robot to explore the shafts.
And particularly it was the King's Chamber that he was focused on was actually clearing it out
and then installing fans. Okay. Do you have any images of this? Okay. So if we look at
this one right here. Okay. Okay. What you see here is this is the Southern Shaft opening,
which has particular significance to the theory, the microwave theory. Okay. The,
this is an opening in the south wall and it's directly opposite an opening in the north wall.
It's right here. Okay. So this opening here
has dimensions of 8.4 by 4.8 inches. Oh, wow. So the,
generally the guidelines for creating a wave guide
are the, the height is about half, half the width of the length. So
What is a wave guide? A wave guide carries microwaves.
And what is that used for today commercially?
Communications for the most part. Like for example, what?
Oh, just about everything that we get. I mean, you got these microwave towers.
Try and pull up a microwave horn antenna on the internet. Okay. So you have those,
they're all different shapes and sizes. And you know, there is a, obviously I,
I don't work in the microwave industry. So where, where's the wave guide here?
That's, that's a horn antenna with the wave guide. Right.
And there are some where you have curvatures on the interior surface.
But you see the wave guide itself, the horn is receives a broader signal and then narrows it
down to the, to the wave guide and transmits it through a wave guide. Okay.
All right. So that's what we're looking at when we, when we're seeing those little shafts.
The, the dimensions of those are. If you, if you believe what I'm telling you.
Okay. Right. I believe it, man. I believe you.
So when I saw that, it was like, okay, that looks like a horn antenna. Right.
And that's in the south, south wall of the, the King's Chamber. Directly opposite is a
a shaft where the width is almost twice the dimension of the height. So you, you do have that
rectangular kind of opening is 4.8 high and 8.4. Okay. So essentially the width has to be related to
the wavelength of the atoms that are used to create the microwave signal. Okay. Okay.
And the wavelength of hydrogen is 21 centimeters or 8.309 inches.
So it's almost 8.4 inches close. So if you had like, if you had a,
some kind of a liner in there, maybe gold plated liner, then you would have just
So if these things could have been plated or, or coated on, on the surface, it would be a little
smaller. Yeah. It would be just a little smaller.
So it would be, it's the perfect dimensions for a wave guide for hydrogen.
Very, very close. Well, I mean, just as it is, it's close.
Okay. But they, they could be lined. Now, of course, you know, critics will say, well, there's been no
nothing found in, in the archeological record that would indicate that those things even existed,
ever existed. And that's, and that's maybe true, except for one
plate that was found by pairing Petrie on the south side of the
Great Pyramid near the shaft. And that is a, an iron plate. And on one
surface of this iron plate, there is signs of a gold bit that it was gold plated at one time.
So there's two shafts going out of the King's Chamber, which is in the upper middle of the
pyramid. Right. And so yeah, H and J on this diagram. Right. These are what we were just
looking at, these wave guides, allegedly. And one of them brings something in
and then it goes through the King's Chamber and then the other one shoots it out.
Now, well, something happens in between. Yeah, something happens in between inside that King's
Chamber, G. Right. What happens inside the King's Chamber?
Okay. So inside the King's Chamber, what you have is a, it's a resonant chamber. The fascinating
features of the King's Chamber that the, it's constructed of granite, red or pink granite
from Aswan. Is that unique for the other chambers in the pyramid?
Yeah. This is the only chamber in the pyramid that has granite. Okay. So the granite was brought
from Aswan, which is 500 miles away from the pyramid.
How much granite is in that chamber? Oh, thousands of tons.
Thousands of tons of granite.
You're talking, yeah, you're talking thousands of tons. There are like 43
beams above the chamber itself. Those 43 beams weigh between 45 and 70 tons each.
Are you talking about those beams that are above the chamber?
Right. The beams are said to be relieving chambers. You know, they're stacked in the
series above. There's five layers and a space between each one.
And it looks like the bottom of those, the beams are perfectly square
on the bottom and edges and the tops of them are very rough.
Right. And so in the Giza power plant, I proposed that those beams were intentionally made that way
and it wasn't a lack of attention rather than it was a very specific focused attention on the beams
to make sure that they were tuned to a particular frequency when struck.
So you have, you have a situation where the sound input into that chamber or vibration
into that chamber would resonate, would cause the granite to resonate and the beams above
would resonate also to those frequencies. Okay.
And the other interesting thing about the King's Chamber assembly is that
it is totally separate from the core masonry. You know, in a structure you would like tie things,
tie things into the core masonry or the core structure for stability and stuff like that.
There is a space all around the King's Chamber separating it from the limestone blocks that
comprise the core chamber. Really? Right. So you have that particular, particular feature.
Tom Danley, who was an acoustic engineer, he did some acoustic testing in 1997. I believe it was
the time he went over there. And he reported that he had, he was testing doing a sweep at
very, very low frequencies, very low frequencies, infrasonic. And the frequencies that he picked up
were forming an F-sharp chord. So they were musical in nature. The F-sharp is considered to be,
or by the Hopi Indians, tune their flutes to the F-sharp chord. They consider it to be
the voice of Mother Earth. It is the frequency of the earth.
And what was he doing in the King's Chamber to get them to resonate and vibrate like that?
To get the blocks to make the sound? Nothing. No, he wasn't...
He was just in there. No, when he picked up those frequencies,
everything was turned off and there was no apparent force to cause it to vibrate.
So this was just sort of like the white noise or the background noise?
This was like a background frequencies of the room. See, in 95, I took some tests inside
the King's Chamber and I wanted to... I took an RF counter with me. I wanted to check the
frequencies, see if there's any EM frequencies coming off the granite. And I wanted all the lights
turned off while I was in there. So I paid good money to get in the Great Pyramid and have a long
time in it. You rented it out by yourself? Wow. By myself and... Private party.
And so anyway, the lights weren't turned off and I had a recorder with me and I was recording
the whole time I was inside the King's Chamber. And of course all this is not scientific,
it's all anecdotal, right? And so when I... I got a little impatient waiting for the lights to turn
off. So I got my flashlight and I went out to what they call the Great Step at the top of
the Grand Gallery right there, standing right there. And I yelled down to the guards outside,
please turn off the lights. So and then I scurried back into the chamber before they
actually turned the lights off because I didn't want to be caught in the dark. Well,
the interesting thing is when I got back to my room later and played back that recording,
I had a... also I had a guitar tuner with me, right? Yeah. So I measured frequencies and
and I picked up my footsteps on the granite. The granite was ringing at the frequency of 440. It
was an A on the musical scale. An A. A, yeah, full party. So that was recorded. Just me,
just my feet striking. What is the significance of it being an A? It's all about frequency and
resonance and vibration, right? So if you've got energy coming through the pyramid, you're
collecting energy in the Grand Gallery, which is this structure right here. Yes. Right?
Converting vibrations into airborne sound, those are transmitted into this chamber right here and
resonate in this chamber. That is causing all that granite to vibrate. Okay.
Right. Okay. So let me see if I got this right. Number A is a subterranean chamber,
which is picking up vibrations deep within the earth. That is transmitting vibrations up those
shafts. There's two shafts, one that goes like out of the pyramid to the right and then one that goes
up into the Grand Gallery and then it goes through the Grand Gallery into the King's chamber.
Yeah. I mean, okay, the prime impulse in the, in the sub chamber, which is A. Okay. So if you are,
if you're causing or driving a pulse into the earth and eliciting a response,
then it's, that's not designed to necessarily be collected in, just in the sub chamber,
right? It's designed to affect the whole area under the Great Pyramid and for vibrations to flow
from the earth throughout the 13 acres of the Great Pyramid. Okay.
And then flow through to
the Grand Gallery and also the King's chamber. So you're collecting those vibrations throughout.
And then converting those vibrations into airborne sound, stimulating
electron flow from the granite. And I identified a piezoelectric effect as being a principal
mechanism for electron flow out of the granite. That changed, that changed after I started to
do my research on the, on Giza, the Tesla connection. So what is the specific function of A,
the chamber, the subterranean chamber? In the Giza power plant theory, A is a chamber that
contains the means to drive vibrations into the earth. Okay. So there was a mission,
there was something inside the chamber underneath the period. Inside the chamber, yes.
That would vibrate the earth. Yeah. And also at the same time, probably the pyramid. So it would
serve two functions. You'd be sending vibrations not just into the earth, but also
into the pyramid itself. Okay. So yeah, the, the sub chamber being
housing that the pulse generator, which there are different proposals on,
proposals on how that was accomplished. Okay. There's one that's
uses hydraulics, hydraulic pulse generator, John Cadman, who is a marine engineer out in
Bellingham, Washington. He's a supporter of that. And then there is the Tesla version, which is
what he called an earthquake machine. Yes. This was a fascinating part of your book.
I had no clue. Electromechanical device that sends timed pulses into a structure,
whether, you know, whether it's a beam on a bridge or an I-beam in a building in New York,
which I think, yeah, there's reports that he did that and almost brought the building down.
Yeah. There was a story, you told the story in your book. Right.
The story was fascinating. They were in the basement of a huge building in New York,
and they turned on the generator and the building started falling down around them.
For all of the time that we have been alive, the US dollar has been the primary currency,
but that may not be the case for much longer. China is set to dethrone the dollar and possibly
much sooner than you think. And even the world's biggest economies are already ditching the dollar
for the yen, collapsing the US currency, causing unprecedented inflation and crashing markets.
And if that wasn't enough, this paves the way for the government to take total control over all
of your money with a new digital dollar. Now is the time to take total control of your money and
not let your life savings become a casualty of the currency wars. And you can do it using the
only precious metal dealer that I trust, American Hartford Gold. They will show you how to protect
your savings and retirement accounts by diversifying your wealth portfolio into physical gold and silver
with the finest products, amazing customer service and a buyback commitment. But you don't have to
take my word for it. American Hartford Gold has a five star rating from thousands of reviews
and an A plus from the Better Business Bureau. American Hartford Gold supports content like
this that is committed to bringing you the truth. And if you tell them I sent you,
they'll give you up to $5,000 in free silver on your first order. So call them now. Click on the
link in the description or call 855-679-1326. That's 855-679-1326 or text concrete K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E
to 655-32. Again, the phone number is 855-679-1326 or text concrete to 655-32. Now back to the show.
Right. Well, I don't think anything fell off, but it was threatening to.
And you had to, he had to break the machine. I don't think he...
They smashed it with a hammer, right?
Yes. And got the hell out of that, yeah.
God. Well, resonance is a really powerful force when you consider it. You know, when you impart
energy into a system that has already has a certain amount of energy and is vibrating of
a particular frequency and you catch it at a node, right? A high node. An example would be a pendulum
or a swinging ball. Okay. So the swinging ball comes back to you. It reaches the archive and then
you apply energy right there, then put energy into it and it goes further. And so you can start out
with very, very small movements of this. Could be a ton, you know. Maybe you just move it an inch
and then it swings back to you and you give it the same amount of force and it moves two inches.
And then it comes back to you and you step back and each time you step in back and by the time,
you know, you can build up quite a swing on that ball without, you know, going up to it and having
to smack it with a hammer and probably break the hammer. But the point is that a small child
could create quite an effect just by using resonance and then, you know, the whole idea of
accumulated energy. What was the purpose of Tesla's earthquake machine? What was he trying
to accomplish with that? He actually believed and wrote that he thought that you could relieve
earthquakes or the severity of earthquakes in here. And it was interesting. That was
reported. I hadn't read that when I wrote the Giza power plant because I had made that
observation in the Giza power plant that perhaps, you know, with a system for drawing energy out of
the earth, one of the effects of that would be the energy that is accumulating in the earth's plates
where they push together to the point of breaking or, you know, rapid release where you have seismic
waves moving out. So going around with this machine and basically creating little mini
earthquakes to avoid some big earthquake down the line. Yes. Ah, okay. Okay, interesting.
Yeah, that was one of his ideas about the use of his machine. Okay. So basically that was in
alignment with what I was thinking. Okay. And you imagined something like this was down there in
the subterranean chamber? Yeah. Okay. Possibly, yeah. Okay. I think everything is open to
further research and input from other specialists. I mean, obviously, if you're going to start playing
around with the planet, you're going to have to have geophysicists involved and geologists
involved, seismologists involved. You know, you can't just really nearly go in there and start
pulling vibrations into the earth in a great quantity. I don't know.
Yeah, could be dangerous. I don't know. I mean, you know, it's like you have to be, I think,
fully aware of what the outcomes are going to be. Yes. The positive and the negative.
You know, they say, okay, free energy. Is there such a thing as free energy?
Well, the energy is there. It's free. You know, just go get it. Will it cost you to get it?
And then it may cost you to clean up after you get it. You know, it's just like, you know,
the nuclear energy, fossil fuel energy and all that. There's always a cost associated with it.
Right. Right. But the thing with this, the electron harvest, and the most significant
discovery was made by Friedman Freund, Dr. Friedman Freund. Who is he?
Friedman Freund, he's a physicist, works at NASA, and he was studying earthquake lights.
And his objective was to determine if by monitoring the earth, these seismic hotspots,
if, if earthquake lights could actually be a early warning system for, you know, impending
earthquakes. And, and so he was studying the earthquake lights, different areas around the
world. Okay. And there was one particular place that it became, it became apparent that
there was an earthquake coming and that was in Italy. It was called the Akia earthquake.
But his discovery is really the, I think, the most important discovery in, in this century or
the last century. It's because you have, you have a, a source of electrons
that's directly under our feet. And so what I, what I tried to do in a gaze of the Tesla solution
was to highlight the idea that, you know, we have been making advances in semiconductor physics,
you know, transistors and things of that nature. And we make a, a quantum leaps in understanding
function of devices that, that control the way electrons behave within a particular device,
like a cell phone or a laptop or something like that. Right. All of those are amazing advances.
All those electrons are coming through wires and generated for the most part from traditional
power plants that are operating principally the same way they have for over a hundred years.
Right. Right. And so they basically boil water, create steam, push turbine blades, rotate,
generate and harvest the electrons and then put it in, you know,
translate it into the grid. Okay. Here it's to recognize that all those electrons that you want
are actually under your feet. And there are some areas of the world in the country
that are more active in terms of earthquake lights than others and certain areas that are
more seismically unstable than others. And so, you know, the question is, should a serious study
be funded or followed to investigate whether we can actually access those electrons directly
and use them rather than going through the process of extraction of fossil fuels,
burning, you know, all the ancillary cast that you have, transportation and stuff like that,
pollution. But here you have a battery under your feet. Why could we tap into it and draw that
energy out? So what does Dr. Freund do about his theory? He studied the effects. He studied
in his laboratory how to generate electron flow in different types of rocks, igneous rocks,
like granite. What is the meaning of igneous rocks? What does that mean?
It means it was formed as magma in the earth as opposed to sedimentary rocks.
So the igneous rocks are basically, they contain these peroxy defaults in the minerals
and when they are stressed or the pressure is put on them, they will migrate to the surface very
rapidly. And he's demonstrated in his lab that he can take a granite block or beam of granite.
He put it in a hydraulic press. He equipped it with electrodes and monitored a
oscilloscope, put pressure on one end, squeezed it and electrons flowed from one pole to the other,
one end to the other. And he was able to measure it. That's an explanation for the
earthquake lights. This is happening under deep inside the earth near fault, near these seismic
areas where there's fault lines and stuff like that. And when these giant rocks are being crammed
together, these electrons are being released and they shoot out through the rock up through the
surface of the earth and into the sky. Yeah. You want to show a YouTube video? Yes. Which video
should we show? It's on YouTube. Okay. What's it called? It's Friedman Freund and it's
Ted Talk in Christchurch, New Zealand. Okay. Friedman Freund, Ted Talk in Christchurch,
New Zealand. Okay. Is that Dr. Friedman? That's Dr. Friedman. Yeah. Okay. He's up in his 80s now.
He's a wonderful guy.
Came to Christchurch to talk about earthquakes and there's no better place in the world,
I would say, than to talk about earthquakes. And particularly, I want to give you hope.
So, if we look at the photo of the New Zealand islands, it looks so peaceful and placid. You see
Christchurch on the left side. But on certain days, occasionally, the earth speaks to us with a very
violent voice. And many of you have gone through this experience. I would like to present you with
the question, what if we would be able to see these earthquakes coming days before they arrive?
Now, I worked for the past 30 years at NASA in California. Before this, I was a professor in
Germany. And during that time, I was doing things that had no relationship with the
earthquakes. I was studying single crystals. I started out working on very, very simple single
crystals. Totally, as I said, unrelated, never dreaming that what I would be working on could
one day have influence and importance for understanding earthquakes. Magnesium oxide,
the simplest oxide material that exists. And I worked on it for a number of years.
And I discovered something that everybody else had overlooked, had missed. And that is a defect,
a type of defect in these crystals. And I should say, a defect in our world of solid state physics
is something that occurs. It's not a crack. It is something on the atomic, on the subatomic.
What I discovered was that in the crystal structure, like here on the lower left side,
there are these defects that are totally invisible. Still now, we have no way how to directly
observe these peroxy defects. But when we do nasty things to the crystal,
they fall apart and produce electric charge carriers. Then I found the same kind of defects
in other materials, including natural minerals, either from the crust or from the Earth mantle.
Almost every mineral seems to have these. And if minerals have them, then of course rocks
would have them. So now I want to show you what you can do when you play around with rocks.
So here is a four meter long piece of granite in my laboratory at NASA Ames. And all what I'm
doing here is I put some contacts to the rock at the far end and the contact up here and I squeeze
here. In the moment I start squeezing here, a current starts to flow through the unstressed rock.
And if I put an amp meter, a people amp meter in the circuit, I can measure an electric current.
And here you see this example measured from this particular four meter long piece of granite.
In the moment, the green curve is the load.
In the moment I start to load the rock, a current begins to flow. The current rises very,
very rapidly at low stress levels, saturates, stays constant. Actually, we have measured this
over a month. The current continues to flow if we keep it loaded. This is a behavior that is
reminiscent of semi-semicaptor, the things from which you build transistors and hounds
available in all electronics. Here at the bottom you see a schematic on the right hand side.
The stress activates electrons and holes. Holes is the name for the defect electrons. These are
electronic particles that are generated and that are actually necessary to be able to produce
a transistor. And we found out that the electrons have to stay in the stress rock volume while the
holes can flow out. They flow out at about 100 meter per second, which is about the speed of a
jet landing in an airport. They are very fast. They propagate through it and in this particular
experiment the electrons have to come around through the wire and shake hands at the front end of this rock.
Now this is a combination of a semiconductor behavior, the formation of electrons and holes,
and of a electrochemical battery. That means we can separate the positive holes flowing through
the rock from the electron, from the negative holes that flow through the wire. This is exciting
and this is new. So now let's do a gedunkin experiment. Take this rock and imagine that it
would be sitting vertically in the earth's crust and that this rock is not four meters long but
a kilometer, five kilometer, ten kilometers long, thirty, fifty, a hundred kilometers long if we are
in a subduction zone like you have it here in the North Island. If that end of that volume of rock is
being stressed by the enormous tectonic forces in the earth, electricity is generated and under
certain conditions, electricity flows out of the stressed rock volume and into the surrounding rock
and we have means to see these things flowing over distance of tens of kilometers under natural
conditions. These are amazing processes that have never before been properly understood.
All these things we can now use to learn something about the stress state of rocks deep below our
feet, far beyond the direct reach, we have to reduce the presence from these indirect measurements.
We can establish these causality ranges linked together by chemistry and by physics.
So I wanted to briefly mention this infrared emission. The infrared emission is when the charge
carriers come to the surface, they can recombine. During this recombination these charge carriers
release energy and these two oxygens that you show there up, they become suddenly about
20,000 degrees hot vibration only and they emit bursts of infrared radiation. But one
characteristic feature that these charge carriers try to accumulate mostly on mountaintops,
on hill sites, not in the valley. So now I want to show you here a result from a PhD
thesis of Luca Pirotti in Italy who had analyzed I think 18 months of Italy. Every night he looked
for these anomalies and prior to this earthquake in Laquilla in 2009 he identified this anomaly
that you see here in red with a loss of life of more than 300 people and to the left and to the
right there are mountain ranges, the one the Gran Sasso are the highest mountains in the middle of
Italy. And in the next slide you will see draped over exactly the same these map of the thermal
infrared anomalies as they are measured three days before that disaster's earthquake. So if anybody
would have had the funding and the knowledge to analyze that how important the analysis is of
these phenomena in real time three days before the earthquake they would have issued a warning and
something is brewing, something must be happening 10-20 kilometers below our feet. Now
I want to talk about these unipolar pulses. Unipolar pulses are strange phenomena that
suddenly within a fraction of a second enormous energy electromagnetic energy is emitted from deep
below only about 100, 150, 200 milliseconds long shoots up and comes down with a little wiggle and
disappears. They are not yet fully understood, we're working on it. Now here the situation where
a friend of mine, colleague, Jorge Hero, has operated for the past two and a half years,
a station consisting of two search-coil magnetomers extremely sensitive and what you see there is
in the subduction zone, there is a rich, a submarine rich, that's where earthquakes are being
generated, that rich is subducted and disappears underneath the edge of the South American continent.
Now here is I think it is running, so here again the map and you will see in a moment
how these unipolar pulses are generated and they are marked here by this is a period of about
two weeks that you see displayed and here they come. A few 10 minutes distance from each other
in groups, then there is a day and a half of silence, no unipolar pulse, the next group is coming
again a little silent or there is another blip from somewhere far away and then there is a third group
of these pulses coming. By now we have 2,500, more than 2,500 of these pulses and they were
associated with 22 magnitude 4 earthquakes, 3.5 to 4 earthquakes that happened in this subduction
zone between the depths of 25 to 65 kilometers and they were, Jorge Hero is able to predict
a time window of 40 hours, 3 to 6 days in advance, depositing the information in a closed envelope
with the president of his university and in all 22 cases that he has analyzed he was right,
well just quite with us. Can we come to the next slide please, it doesn't,
oh yeah, so I've started my presentation with asking what if we can see earthquakes coming
and I think I can say, I hope I've convinced you that by understanding the physics and this is
really new physics of how rocks respond deep below to the increase of stress
and how what they are producing electricity and how this electricity propagates through the earth
crust we can learn about the buildup of stress and we will be able to say yes we can see them coming
days before they will arrive, we cannot be sure that every stress buildup will
reach to an earthquake because sometimes the earth says I don't feel like rupturing, I feel
like sliding and we see the precursors and people would say you have had a false alarm, no we have
not had a false alarm, the earth just had another day, another feeling but in most cases one thing
which can make for sure in the future there will be no major earthquake that will hit any place in
the world where we have the capability of measuring these precursory signals will hit
unannounced, unforewarned, wow, so the element of utter surprise that has been a plague until
recently and including the Christchurch earthquakes will be over, thank you so much.
Is anybody using this this stuff to detect earthquakes now?
No that's another story altogether, the seismologists are pretty much ignoring it from what I can
understand. And why are they ignoring this? They prefer the traditional mechanical ways of
detecting earthquakes. That's bizarre that all the mountain ranges surrounding that city were
lit up. Yeah I know. By the earthquake lights right? Yeah right. And that's exactly that's
exactly analogous to what would have happened within the pyramids with all of with those
vibrations shooting up through those giant pile of rocks that they built in the desert.
Exactly right. So the pyramids would have glowed similar?
Yeah I believe so. There has been an electrical phenomenon
detected in the pyramids anyway, I mean as far as people noticing
you know like tingling there was one story about the
a William Siemens who was climbing the pyramid with a guide and he detected a ringing in his
ear and you know a little buzzing on his finger and he fashioned what they call a laden jar
which is kind of an accumulator of an electrical charge. He accumulated a charge
and the guard was the guide who was kind of bothering him I think,
well he thought he was practicing witchcraft or whatever and so he just held out the jar and
shot the guard. The guide went howling down the side of the pyramid.
So that's one of the anecdotal stories that you get. I mean that's rough you know.
So how did you and Friedman Freud connect? So I had on my 2018
Lost Technologies tour in Egypt I had some really brilliant minds with me. One of them is Robert
Walter who is a sound engineer. Okay. And there was a geologist there, there was a...
He looks like a sound engineer. Yeah he's a front of house sound engineer, total roadie.
Super geek. Yeah he looks like a sound guy, right Steve?
He's also got a degree in archaeology. Oh does he really? Oh wow, good for him.
That's besides a point. That's the least of his shames.
But no and so I connected with Robert actually when I was writing the Geyser power plant because
you know an aspect to the function of sound within the pyramid and I had been told about
Robert by a gentleman called Stephen Mailer who was a friend of his at the time.
So I called him up and I just asked him a few questions and he was like yeah yeah yeah
obviously yeah talked about you know the harmonics in the great pyramid and other pyramids.
So in like 2016 we lost contact, we lost touch for quite a while.
2016 I called him and basically at that time I was pondering on writing another book right
because a lot has happened since the first book and people were bugging me when are you
going to update the Geyser power plant? I was like maybe never I don't know you know.
But I really didn't think I had enough material to do a full book. It may have been a
new edition of the Geyser power plant. And so I went out to visit with him and spent some time
with him chatting. We arranged the to do the tour in 2018. Eric Wilson who's an aerospace engineer.
He came along. Adrian Lungan who was a geologist. He came along. There was entrepreneurs,
there was other engineers, a lot of technical type people who signed up for the tour because it was
just basically just focused on technology. There was no other subject matter you know.
Anyway so while we were there we were talking about the
role that piezoelectricity plays in the production of electron flow in the granite
in the King's chamber. And Adrian Lungan who said well you know it's reported in
in some books that it's 55% of the of the granite is quartz crystal, silicon quartz crystal.
To in order for the piezoelectric effect to work the quartz crystal has to be
stressed across a particular axis otherwise it it doesn't work. And because of the random
orientation of the quartz in the granite it was seen to not be a very efficient way to
generate electricity. Also as a geologist Adrian suggested that the amount of quartz
in the granite was a lot less than what has been discussed in the past.
Yeah initially you thought it was like 80 to 90% and initially it was 55%. That's what I
wrote in the Giza power plant based on what I had read in other books. And then
he said it may be more like 20% maybe less than that. So
that kind of shot the piezoelectric
aspect out of the water. Okay. And but I was like there has to be something else,
there has to be something else right. And so Robert was just doing he's he lives in
he lives in San Jose, California in the Foothills overlooking Silicon Valley right.
And so he's poking around doing some research on granite and minerals and piezoelectricity. And
then he one of his searches he came up with the Freedom and Freund and started to look at his
stuff. Okay. Right. And so then he calls Freedom and Up and they arranged to meet and he went into
NASA to meet with him and gave a presentation to the whole NASA group and it was all about
the pyramids and you know, the energetic purpose for the pyramids and the resonance
and acoustics of the pyramids and also the very, very fine manufacturing and machining of the
parts that go into it. And he presented all this stuff in front of a bunch of NASA scientists.
Yeah. What was the reception he got from them?
They're fascinated. I mean, I've talked to them too. They had a group
that's called the Geo-Cosmos group. It's not a NASA group, but it is a think tank that freedom
and kind of formed to and to study planetary issues. You know,
they're phenomenon like earthquake likes and other subjects, but this group is comprised of
scientists from all over the world. And so Robert was invited to join that group.
And then when I started to get into writing The Geyser Part II or the Tesla Connection,
as it finally became, you know, I actually reached out to Friedman because I was
trying to get, come to grasp with his research because if you read his scientific papers,
they're heavily involved with, there's a lot of math to it, you know, obviously. And so most of
that was above my head. But as you saw in that little video, he was, he was talking to laypeople
and presenting his theory to laypeople in general terms, even though there were formulas in some
of his slides. He was not speaking, you know, above their head. You know what I mean?
Yes. So is he completely on board with your theory?
You know, he supports me, I think, as a person. I've never directly asked him
if he supports what I am, what I'm doing.
I have, there's an appendix in my book that is a transcript of that Christ Church lecture.
And so I got permission from him to include it in my book. And he actually went through it
and added it for clarity. Is that something you think he has to worry about, sort of like backing
up your theory of being somebody who's employed by NASA? You think as he might be labeled as like
a kook or something if he started saying that the pyramid was a power plant?
Yeah, if he probably would be. I mean, that is normally, that's normally people's reaction,
but NASA like a, you know, typical reaction. But the thing is with, with most physicists,
and there are other physicists that I've communicated with, is that when they, politics
doesn't enter into their minds when they study in nature and trying to find answers to particular
problems or phenomenon, the politics of it is something they have to deal with later. So it's
like, you know, they're just going to go ahead and call it like they see it. And then whatever the
politics flow from that, I mean, it's just like anybody, you know, Einstein or Oppenheimer or
anybody who is breaking new ground and new thinking, they eventually they're going to,
they're going to be faced with the politics of what, what their creations become.
Yeah. And there's got to be a lot of politics around something like this. I mean, the implications
of this idea is something that could change the future of humanity and the future, the human race.
Like if we could figure out how to power our civilization through using the earth as a battery
and using these rocks to generate electrons and have free energy, I mean, that's not a small idea.
No, it's not a small idea. It's a, and it's not, and it doesn't come at a small price tag either.
It's like, you know, I mean, there's, compared to what?
Yeah, exactly. That's, that is a brilliant question because it's loaded. It's a loaded question
compared to what you name it, compared to environmental controls, compared to, you know,
the amount of coal that's in the earth now, the amount that we burn every year,
compared to all the maintenance and ancillary activity that surrounds the creation of electricity
that we're creating now. Maintenance, oh my God. I mean, you know, you're talking,
you're talking about millions, billions of dollars.
How much, you, you estimated exactly how much it would cost to actually go out there,
take the, take all the scientists out to the Great Pyramid, restore it, and actually test it
against your theory to see if it works the way you think it works.
No, I did not. No, I wouldn't even dare. You kidding me? I mean, yeah, I may have balls,
but they're not that big. I don't have, I don't have the, no, I don't have the gravitas
to do something like that. Though in my book- Didn't you estimate it?
No, no, there was an estimator who, his job is to do cost estimations for building power plants.
Okay. Okay. So he emailed me and he laid out a quote for what it would cost to
create the Great Pyramid, assuming that it would produce like 25 gigawatts of power.
25 gigawatts. And he estimated that it would be around 25 billion dollars.
But. Where would that money come from? Where does that cost go to? Like what specifically does
accumulate, what specifically does it take all that money to do?
That's the extraction of the rock, the crafting of it, the transportation of it.
That's just the rocks. But I think, yeah, but I really don't know. I mean,
when we talk about building the pyramid today and using our technology,
the technology that we're familiar with,
there was an estimate that was made by the director of the Limestone Institute in Indiana.
His name was Meryl Bucker. And he was asked for an estimate by Richard Noon,
who wrote a book called 552000. Very unfortunate title, but you know, it was a good book.
It had a lot of good information. 552000?
Yeah, it was a doomsday type of book, right? So.
Well, he claimed the earth, the world was going to end in 2000.
Planned alignments and there'll be a pole shift and everybody will fly.
A pole shift.
But I mean, Richard is a wonderful guy. I met him. He's a great guy.
And his book is loaded with information.
Anyway, so he had included in his book the estimate that he got from Meryl Bucker.
And Meryl Bucker said that the 33 quarries that they have around Bedford, Indiana,
they would, if they tripled their output to quarry and cut enough stone to build
the pyramid, the great pyramid, a great pyramid, it would take 27 years
just to quarry it and deliver it to the site. That doesn't even mean putting it together.
They're just delivering the stone. And that's assuming no equipment breakdowns, no
unions, strife or labor problems or anything like that. Full tripling their output.
Tripling their output.
All that quarries. And that was, the cost was what again?
The cost, he did put a cost on it. He just said it would be 27 years.
Okay. The 25 billion was to actually complete the pyramid.
Oh, that was an estimate from this estimator in England.
So I mean, that is like, you know, you have, ever since people have studied the great pyramid
and wrote about it, there have been, you know, oh, I don't know, as many people who have opined
about building it, you have that many different ideas of how many people it took and what they
would do and, you know, and how they would do it. You know, you've got estimates from
10,000 workers to 100,000 workers from 20 years to 100 years to build it. You know, it's like,
there's nothing realistic or factual, really hard factual, that you can, you can assert,
this is the correct, this is correct, until you actually do it and you have some results.
So I don't know. I mean, we don't know how the, how the Egyptians did it.
And really, right now, we don't know how we would do it because, you know, it's,
armchair theorists are not going to do it. They're not going to build it. You're going to need
professionals who get involved and, and upgrade just about every technology that they're going to
use in order to accomplish it. You know, whether it's a quarry worker who has to,
or a quarry company that has to install precision machining that will hold tolerances on blocks
of limestone to within 10,000 of an inch instead of a quarter of an inch, which they may, they may
be currently working to. And that's a huge step to take when you, because you have, you know,
when you look at craft skills, you go from like quarry working to woodworking to metalworking,
where you've got machining, then within metalworking, you've got machining, you've got toolmaking,
you've got gauge making. And all of those particular craft trades work to different tolerances. And
the more zeros you put after a decimal point, when it comes to the tolerance on a dimension,
the more expensive it is to make because it takes longer to make. And the people who are
actually creating it are paid more. So you pay more for a toolmaker than, say, a machinist. You
pay more for a machinist than, say, a carpenter, you know. It's all about how much you invest in
a person and what real, how really adaptable they are to working to within those really,
really tight tolerances, really small tolerances. Yeah, because even like the buildings that you
see today, some of the, even the skyscrapers, if you were to measure the base of those skyscrapers,
they're within, like, if I'm, if I'm correct, I think they're within a six inch degree of tolerance.
They can be like the square, they could be six inches off square, and they can still build,
according to code, like a skyscraper. Really? Yeah. I thought I got that from your book,
maybe not. No. Okay. But like, you know, you correlate, the main thing about this precision
is like you don't have to have precision without a function. Like the goal of precision is function,
right? Like you don't, there's no need to make those things or these blocks, for example,
in the Serapium. They don't, what's the point of making them that precise unless they are,
it's necess, it's necessary for a function. Right. Exactly. The only other, the only other
reason why they would be that precise is that they were employing tools and methods that were
capable of no less of precision. So if you consider the quality of products that are made today,
you compare your vehicle that's in the parking lot, where the vehicle that was, came out of
Detroit in the 70s, and you look at the fit and finish on the body, and the other components in
the car, you see a big difference in the tolerance and the precision of those pieces. Like, you know,
the way a door fits in the gap between the door. Right. Right. So the evolution of manufacturing
has been to, to actually eliminate variables in the system or variables in the process that allow
for errors to exist or allow for variants to exist. Okay. So when you talk about variants,
you're talking about anything that varies from a perfect form. So you, and you design a perfect
form in today in a computer in the past on the drawing board, this is a perfect form. Make me
this. Okay. How much can you tolerate from the person who's making it of variation from that
perfect form that you defined? Right. Right. And that's called the tolerance band. Okay. And so
that tolerance band has been gradually getting small and small and small over the years.
So now where, you know, like cell phones that they make in their millions,
you know, the manufacturing process has been perfected such that everyone comes off almost
perfect. But one of the big questions like even posed in your book is when it comes to people
challenging your idea. Yeah. Well, before we talk about that, before we talk about that,
what sort of response have you gotten from like academia or Egyptology? Egyptologists
on your first book, Ease of Power Plant, obviously your second book is not out yet,
but like what has been the response from people in general? It is a radical revolutionary idea
that is totally divorced from what the historical records contain, what their records,
what their theories are. And it's deemed to be fringe pseudo science. So when it comes to
explaining certain features of the great pyramid like the shafts, Egyptologists rely on
magic. Yes. I noticed that in that video you sent in, I was watching that you referenced in the
book when they had a TV show where they were sending that robot up through the shaft up to
gate and breaks door to drill through the shaft. And the narrator was like, why would they end the
shaft here? Why would they put a door there? And then it would cut to some scholar saying that
it's very obvious if you use logic. The reason for that door is because Khufu's soul
needed to open the door to reach the heavens and you need a door. It can't just be a free flowing
opening to the heavens. There needs to be a door that he has to pass through to get to the heavens.
It's just logic. Yes. Well, I was like, what? I don't, yeah. I think you may have embellished
that a little bit, Daniel. No, I did. I underplayed that. You underplayed it. She literally said if
you use logic. This may not be verbatim, but she did say if you use logic. No, she's talking about
souls. You got the wrong word. It sounds like logic. I mean, it ends in a G-I-C. It's magic.
Magic. Oh, logic. No, but I swear if you rewatch that, she said logic. She said logically.
She said logically. Magic. It's magic. Maybe I didn't hear it right.
You ought to pull up those clips. Do we have them? I don't have a mind.
Yeah. We'll show them after the break. Yeah. The point is these scientists that are being
interviewed for this National Geographic video, it's all spiritual and magic. Is there explanations
for these things? Well, yeah. I mean, the explanation for all the shafts, the king,
is soul can exit the pyramid and go into the heavens. Right? And in that documentary, the narrator
asked the question, but what about the queen's chamber? Why do they need four shafts?
And why do they have handles? And what about this blockage? And then she says, well,
Mark Lainer, who is an American Egyptologist, believes that magic could be a part of it.
And so then Mark Lainer opines about, well, you know, the queen's chamber is just a dummy chamber.
And the soul would have no problem passing through limestone.
Right.
And that is what they call a false door.
So there's magic involved there. And then Reiner Stadlmann, who is a German Egyptologist,
he's in the king's chamber. And he answered the question about the handles or what they call,
you know, those metal fittings, the handle. And he says that those are magical instruments.
Oh.
That the soul uses to lift the door so that he can pass through. So you got one Egyptologist saying,
one have a problem passing through that limestone. And then another one saying, well,
you got to have those magical instruments to lift it. And then I'm thinking,
is there a soul? Has that been proven, you know, from a scientific perspective?
I mean, that has been a long, you know,
for any old question in people's mind, the existence of the soul.
Yeah. Have you ever had a conversation with Zahi Hawass about this?
I have met him a few times. And the first time was in 19, no, 2001. I was supposed to meet him
in 1995, but I didn't. In 2001, I was in Egypt filming with Grizzly Adams for the PAX television.
And he was going to be a presenter also during that time. And so after a day of filming,
the field producer and I went up to his office. And, you know, he was very cordial, very kind,
and which, you know, a very abulient, charming, charismatic guy. And we asked him,
hey, we'd like to visit the Serapien. We'd also like to go in the Great Pyramid, which was closed
at the time. And it had been closed for a while because of cleaning, cleaning on the inside,
which had kind of surfaced a lot of conspiracy theories about Zahi Hawass digging a tunnel to
explore behind Gantum Brink's door before they, you know, before they drilled it.
So anyway, but so he gave us permission. We got inside the Great Pyramid and I was
very fortunate to capture some photographs of the Grand Gallery ceiling where
I noticed that there were scorch marks. And yeah, the place was definitely, had definitely been
cleaned. Even the ceiling of the Grand Gallery, which is 28 feet high, had been cleaned.
And you've noticed scorch marks?
Scorch marks on the ceiling. Yes. Yeah. And basically a pattern that is similar,
you know, kind of matched the resonator frames that I had theorized were installed in slots in
the Grand Gallery in the Giza Power Plant. Before we go into this resonator, when you taught it,
did you ever have a conversation with Zahi Hawass about the Giza Power Plant idea or
about anything like this or no? No. No. Okay. No. Okay. Just curious.
I, no, I'm not that stupid. I mean, I may be a little zany, but I'm not stupid.
Yeah. I kind of had his, you know, I had his measure and I just figured, yeah.
Yeah. He asked me what I was doing now. There was a meeting before the filming and we met in
the Sheraton Hotel in Cairo. And do you know if he's aware of your buffing? Do you know if he's
aware of your book? I believe he is now because it's becoming a hot property in Egypt. See, the
thing is, and this is why I wrote the, my second book, Lost Technologies of Ancient Egypt, because,
you know, in the Western world, there was obviously a huge wall of resistance to
changing the history books on Egypt. But I wrote the Lost Technologies to appeal to
Egyptian engineers to do their own studies. And guess what? The tiny end of the wedge.
They did. And so now, wow, just this last week, I got a, I got a message from two people.
The first one was a video that, a YouTube video on the Arabic television
of them discussing my next book, The Tesla Connection.
These are the Tesla Connection. Yeah. So they were discussing that.
Who were the people discussing it? Were these like young kids?
It was a reporter. It was on national television.
Oh, wow.
Yeah. And then just today, I see in my Facebook messages, a message from
Amada Anwar, who was a principal in the Unscan Pyramid mission team.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Has sent me a YouTube video of somebody discussing the Pyramid as a power plant.
And, and so everybody in Egypt, I mean, not everybody, obviously not everybody, but
they, the youth, the young people, you know, in Egypt, are turning their back on the old
Egyptian Egyptology model when it comes to the pyramids.
And even some Egyptian Egyptologists are now saying, no, the pyramid as a tomb is a dead
theory. Wow.
Yeah. I'm not, I'm not just one of them. A lot of them.
Really?
Yeah. Well, think about it. I mean, think about it. There you are. You, you've got some of the most
amazing monuments and artifacts that this planet has ever produced within your country.
Right?
Right.
And you compare, you pair those with those produced in other countries, like in Greece,
Rome, Europe, anywhere. I think India, it will be a good contender for excellence
in manufacturing with their temples. But if you're in Egypt, you're Egyptian, and you're looking
at this, and you say, this guy is saying that the ancient Egyptians were more advanced than
the Greeks, the Romans, or any other culture on the planet, and they will rewrite their own history
books, not me. Ben was telling me that some people have even attacked Graham on this idea.
They've gone as far as calling the idea that the Egyptians didn't build the pyramids as a racist
idea. Well, who's saying that? Graham's not saying that.
No, people are attacking Graham saying that that idea is a racist idea. That's what Ben told me,
because they said that if you say that the Egyptians didn't build them, you're saying that
they weren't smart enough or intelligent enough to actually build these things.
Well, that is a...
Which is the implication, but basically they're throwing bullshit into it, just trying to
label him and slander him, and basically discredit the idea by injecting drama.
Right? Yeah, and...
And for people that don't read into it, people that just read the headlines,
the lazy people that will see that, and just like, Graham Hancock, oh yeah, racist ideas.
Yeah, the people who attack Hancock like that, and me, by the way, because there are a few out
there that are attacking me, they're just building their own funeral pyre, because they're going to
get burned to the ground eventually. It won't be by me, it won't be by Graham.
Right.
But the Egyptians are coming along. They're very, very fine, intelligent engineers.
Speaking of supporters in Egypt, I'll show you an image here.
Galal Hassan, Dr. Galal Hassan.
That's me presenting my book to him. He is Professor Emeritus, Mechanical Engineering
at Cairo University. Oh, wow.
Right. And so in his last paper, which was number 109, I believe, he dedicated it to me.
Mr. Dunn is a science lover of the ancient Egyptian civilizations who is keen to visit
Egypt and spend some time between its monuments and heritage. I have been, I have the honor to
dedicate his, this research work to him and hope my efforts will complete his work and
clarify the sophisticate, easy for you to say, sophistication of the mechanical engineering
technologies used by the ancient Egyptians. And he was, he actually got his PhD at Bradford
University in England. All right. So going back to this grand gallery, you said that Zahi Hawass
let you into the pyramid after it had been cleaned, granted you some special access,
and you noticed at the ceiling of the grand gallery, which is how many feet tall?
28. That there were scorch marks.
Yeah. So that's the photograph that I took.
Right here. You see those scorch marks.
Okay. What is this diagram here down on the left?
Okay. So.
These balls going up.
This is what I, basically I wrote in the Giza Power Plant was that there are 27 pairs of
slots on the ramps, the side ramps of the grand gallery. Okay. So if you look at this area right
here, you see the ramps, right?
So that's looking into the grand gallery?
That's looking along the length of it.
Okay.
And so I speculated that the grand gallery had held these resonators and I had
put the, you know, designed these resonators. I speculated maybe they were Helmholtz resonators.
And, but any, you know, a resonator that will convert vibration into sound, airborne sound.
Okay.
Now that may not be Helmholtz. Probably wasn't, but it was some kind, some device that
was caused to move and as it moved, it produced a sound. That sound was of a particular frequency
and the design of the gallery was such that that sound was naturally focused to
that passageway that leads to the King's Chamber. I have the frames, right?
And here you see that they line up with the scorch marks. So in the Giza Power Plant,
proposed that there was a hydrogen explosion in the King's Chamber and the evidence that
exists that prompted me to speculate that was the the Petrie when he was doing his measurements,
uh, noted that the the King's Chamber was expanded. It had expanded from its original dimensions about
half an inch. And how did that explosion happen, do you think?
Hydrogen explosion. I, I speculate, I would speculate that there was a time in history when
you had this remarkable civilization that were in possession of advanced science,
advanced engineering, advanced mechanical machining and all of the, all of those
facilities that we use daily to keep our civilization going existed at some level.
Maybe not as sophisticated as ours, maybe more sophisticated as ours.
But then there was a cataclysm of some kind. You know, we're talking about different periods
of time in history, whether it's 9,000 years ago, 10,000, 12,000, you know.
Yeah, based on based on ice cores that have been taken out of Antarctica, they determined that
the world was heated up in like an instant to like incredible, incredible heat and then flash frozen
instantly after that. And there's been evidence and people like Randall have done research on this
that they've found evidence of meteors or comets hitting the earth over a period of a thousand
years. That's called the Younger Dryus. So that is the, and then, you know, I think Robert Shock's
view is the coronal mass ejection. So all of those things may, may have been working at some
point in time. The, the comet strike is probably, I think for me, the most convincing in terms of
the effect that it had on the pyramids, because the pyramids were built,
were finely tuned to resonate to the frequencies of the earth. And so they were drawing energy
out of the earth at a, there was a known quality. So the, their relationship was like, okay,
we're building it to withstand a certain amount of power to come through it.
And then the comet strikes. Okay. Right. And so there's, as long as we were a contained system
working with known, known energy levels, everything functioned okay. Right. But when you
introduce energy from an outside source of such a massive amount, then the coupled oscillator
which becomes what is known as a runaway vibrator. In other words, it cannot,
it cannot pass through the amount of energy that it is receiving. It just can't handle it.
Which caused the hydrogen explosion. Which causes, you know, first of all,
the probably shook, shook apart. You have, you have a closed system. The blocks were
stripped off the outside, whatever mechanisms that were attached to the shafts on the outside,
the King's Chamber shafts were removed. It was exposed from air, oxygen entered into the King's
Chamber mixed with the hydrogen and then the spark just set it off. Maybe coming from the
outside and, and down into the pyramid. Right. So everything inside, all the,
all the intricate parts inside these chambers and these shafts, like the shaft here would have been
fried causing the scorch marks on the ceiling. Now, did you, when you came up with the,
this diagram of these frames with these round things in the middle, what are those round
things supposed to be? Well, resonators. I identified them as resonators of different
frequencies. So they resonate at different frequencies. And did you come up with this
diagram before you saw the scorch marks? Like did you theorize that that's what it would look like
inside the Grand Gallery before you saw those scorch marks? Well, it was in my book in 1998.
And I didn't know about the scorch marks then. And the scorch marks weren't visible until 2001.
When they cleaned it. After they had cleaned it. Wow. Yeah. I mean, there's, there's more too.
I don't know if we're gonna have time to get it. Let's go deeper. Let's go deeper, Mr. Dunn.
I'm gonna have to talk to my union rep. What's up guys? That's the end of part one of this
six hour marathon with Chris Dunn. Part two is going to be dropping next Monday. We're going to
be going deep into how Chris actually reverse engineered the Great Pyramid to show how it
produced energy, his theory on the function of the boxes inside the Serapium, as well as the work
that aerospace scientists at Rolls Royce are doing to reverse engineer the precision artifacts found
in ancient Egypt. You're not going to want to miss it. Do me a favor and hammer the subscribe
button as well as the bell so that you get notified the second it drops. I'll see you next week.
