We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
Today my guest is Mark Leda.
Mark started his career as a world-renowned
professional photographer,
whose clients include the likes of Apple, BMW,
Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Budweiser,
and the list goes on and on forever.
But he decided to give all of that up for his new passion,
which is essentially doing these disturbing character
studies on the most fucked up human beings in America.
On his fascinating YouTube channel
called Soft White Underbelly,
Mark interviews pimps, prostitutes,
homeless drug addicts, inbreds.
He actually went to the home of an inbred family
in Appalachia and filmed his entire encounter,
which is stunning.
It's on his YouTube channel.
Mark is doing some extremely powerful work,
which is shining light on, in my opinion,
one of the biggest problems in this country,
which is raising our children.
So grab a seat and buckle up, ladies and gentlemen,
because this podcast will knock your socks off.
Please welcome, Mark Leda.
So for people out there who don't know who you are,
why don't you give me just a brief background on yourself?
Who am I?
Yeah, who is Mark Leda?
I'm a photographer.
That I did advertising for my whole life,
since I was a teenager.
And that's what I did for decades.
But then with starts and stops,
I started doing these portraits down in Skid Row
in Los Angeles.
And then I started doing interviews
with some of the people.
And it's just grown from there.
And now I'm doing pretty much devoting most of my time,
almost all my time, to these interviews
of all kinds of interesting characters.
A lot of drug addicts, a lot of gang members,
a lot of sex workers, a lot of...
I'm branching out and giving to other things now too.
Yeah, it's interesting to see a guy like yourself
from the traditional advertising world,
kind of diving into the digital social media world
with YouTube.
Yeah, it's hard to...
I definitely noticed instantly the crossover with
your photography on the thumbnails,
going on your channel and seeing all of the thumbnails
are amazing photographs of these characters in your studio.
Yeah, I mean, that's what I do.
I'm a photographer and I do a good job of that.
I'm not a good photographer.
You have like over a million subscribers on YouTube, right?
You have like 1.3 million subscribers.
1.44, I know, yeah, I just saw.
No, but when I first started it,
which is really just like a year,
the lower year ago, a year and a half ago,
I thought I'd have 20 subscribers.
I honestly thought this is just gonna be
for a couple of friends of mine to laugh at,
to find interesting.
And I just think it's worth doing,
so I'm just gonna do it.
And I thought maybe 20, 30 odd balls
would find it interesting.
Because there's always people forever.
You could put up anything
and there's somebody out there that responds.
And I got those 30 subscribers and then I got 60
and then I had 100 and then I had 300
and then now it's 1.4 million.
It's crazy.
That is insane, man.
I had no idea that there was,
I mean, I kind of knew,
I mean, maybe I,
you know, your subconscious is very interesting
and now it's different than what you,
like on the surface,
I kind of thought that no one would be interested,
but maybe subconsciously I knew better
because we're all human.
And if you're human, you struggle.
Who doesn't?
We all do.
And that's what these stories are really all about.
What gave you the idea
to start bringing these people into your studio
and interviewing them?
Like what made you want to do that?
Well, I mean, initially I had a studio down in Skid Row.
I've had three of them now.
But the first one, I was doing portraits
and it was great.
I had a great location.
People would just walk in
and I'd give them a little cash and I'd do a portrait.
And that was it.
And that's what I've always done is just photography.
And then Canon came out with these cameras to do video.
The 5D and the 7D?
Exactly.
It was a 5D.
And I said, well, let me just play around with this.
Let me, you know, there's this one prostitute,
heroin addict and she was a prostitute,
Caroline that I got to know down there.
And I said, hey, would you want to do an interview?
I kind of knew a little bit of her story
and she says, sure.
So she sits down and I point this little camera at her
and we just did a, I didn't take it seriously.
I just thought this was just,
I'm just gonna play around with this stupid video camera.
I've never shot video in my life.
And I was like, whoa, this is heavy.
And that was incredible.
I just got really lucky the first time I thought.
And that was that.
I didn't really think that it was gonna turn into something.
And then I did a few more and, you know, damn it,
if they weren't all interesting in different ways.
And I've said this before in other interviews
where Richard Branson from Virgin said,
talking about career choices,
said you create four lists.
One list is everything you're good at.
Another list is everything you're bad at.
Third list is everything you love.
And the fourth list is everything you hate.
And if you look at all those strengths and weaknesses
and things you're into and things you're not into,
it'll tell you what to do.
So I'm really into psychology.
I've always been that.
And I find people super interesting.
You know, just the way you look, the way you dress,
the way you wear your hair, the way your body language,
all these things, everybody is interesting to me.
And then you get all these, in the United States,
you get all these different characters.
You know, the people in Boston look very different
from the people in Miami.
And then you go to New Mexico,
they're very different from how they look in Minnesota.
And those are so interesting to me.
I've been to every state now.
For my first book, Creed Equal, I went to every state.
And I found every single state interesting.
Now, I wouldn't want to live in South Dakota,
but it's interesting as could be to me
because it's just, wow, look at how these people live.
Look at the struggles they have.
Look at the stories that are there.
And I just find it all so interesting.
So I'm really into that.
So that's the psychology and the people aspect.
And I'm also into photography.
And I'm also into like these stories and, you know,
just the psychology, you know,
I mentioned this in one of the recent interviews
that I'm interested in the human struggle.
The thing that we all go through,
which is, you know, trying to find love,
trying to find happiness, trying to find fulfillment,
trying to make a living,
trying to just survive and thrive in the world.
And I find all that stuff so interesting.
And it's just interesting.
And then we also seem to be like in our own way,
like we'll do things to screw ourselves up.
You know, like why would you start,
why would you drink like that to alienate your entire family,
to lose your wife, you know, lose all your income,
lose your job, you've just destroyed your own life.
Why would you do that?
So that became really part of this whole process too.
So really what this project is,
is a mix of all of these things all put together,
all the things that I'm good at, all the things that I love.
And I don't have all the other hassles
and all the things that other jobs,
like my advertising career, there's lots of ass kissing
and there was a lot of doing things
you didn't really want to do.
I love photography, but I was doing photography for that.
Give a fuck about that.
But they look great, man.
I can swear, right?
You're a photographer.
Oh yeah, you can swear.
I mean, so often I would say to,
you know, Axel, my assistant who works with me
for decades still does, on these trips he goes,
comes with me and I would say to him all the time,
like, yes, I would hate this so much, what I'm doing.
I give two shits about this.
But there's money, so we're doing it and it's like,
but that's how you're spending your life,
is doing something you really don't want to do.
And now the digital technology is kind of undermined
your ability to make a great living,
which I used to, I made a great living at photography,
at advertising photography.
Well, you have some of the biggest fucking clients
I've ever seen.
I had a client list that was so ridiculous.
Give me like your top five clients that you've had.
Everybody.
I shot literally for everybody.
Every single client there.
Bud Light, right?
Yeah, of course, a hundred times.
And Mercedes-Benz and IBM and Apple.
I was the Apple photographer for like 10, 12 years.
You name it, everybody.
So I was wildly successful.
And it was really great.
It was a really great ride for 10 to 14 years there.
It was wonderful.
And I loved it and I was really proud of it.
But eventually it got to a point where it's like,
I just wasn't happy.
I wasn't enjoying it anymore.
And then it's like, hmm.
And then it also became more difficult
to make the money that I got used to
because digital technology changed.
Like find somebody in this whole state
that doesn't have a camera in their pocket.
And eventually that bleeds, that affects people like me.
Right.
Who charged.
With that whole gig economy, just go online.
Well, I would charge more than anybody else
in the world for what I did.
But when somebody had a client like Intel
and they needed to spend, we just want the best.
Who's the best?
And boom, they'd come to me and I'd make,
I'd charge whatever I charge and they would pay it
because they're not gonna cut corners
and pay somebody cheaper.
Oh, this photographer is a quarter of the price.
They don't care.
It's Intel or it's Apple or it's whoever.
And I would always get the job.
And I made so much money, it was ridiculous.
So that was great.
And then eventually it became not great.
And I really just, I was unhappy.
And then also what happened is because all the digital
technology, there became all this cheap competition.
And the economy kind of took a turn for the worst
and all kinds of other things happened in the world.
And it just became really difficult for guys like me
to make the money that I was used to.
I mean, I still do jobs once in a while.
I did one last week and nice one.
And I got another one coming up.
And that's what, that's really what supports this channel
because I'm still not making money at this channel.
You know, YouTube demonetizes pretty much everything
I put up.
Even the clean videos.
Like there's a, even the cleanest video.
I'll put up something that doesn't have a single swear word.
Drugs are never mentioned.
Sex work, nothing, you know, like Selena,
this old high school girl that's really sweet story
from Appalachia, that got demonetized.
Like there's nothing wrong with that video.
It's a high school kid talking about avoiding
the dangers for this, you know, drug.
That's a big problem, man.
It's so hard to make money.
You know, when they demonetize everything I put up
from the get go, they can't even watch it.
They just see, like Norman, a crack addict who's recovering.
I put up his videos, they demonetized.
I put one up this morning.
He's got demonetized.
Come on, he's not even talking about drugs.
He's just talking about the fact that he got laid off at work
and he's gonna persevere and he's gonna try to get
another job.
That's all the talk is about.
And they talked about Kobe Bryant at the end.
And it's like, that's it.
Do you hit the button, the manual?
I can't make money on YouTube yet.
Maybe one day something will change or shift
or maybe I'll put up so many, I'm not gonna swear,
so many videos that eventually it'll turn the corner
and I'll start making more money.
But I spend a lot of money doing this.
Like there's 10 pedophiles that I interviewed,
I told you, I just told you, I interviewed 10 pedophile,
sex offenders.
That's why you're down here in Florida, right?
That's why I'm here in Florida.
So tell me about that.
How did you find out about this, locate this trailer park
or whatever it was?
Well, I do a lot of research.
I mean, like when I'm looking for the Ku Klux Klan
or in this case, sex offenders or whatever,
like I found that there's this mobile home park
in St. Petersburg, Florida,
that has nothing but sex offenders.
Cause they're not allowed to live near schools.
They're not allowed to do, they can only live
in certain areas.
So this trailer home park is like somebody figured out,
like let's just put them all here.
They'll all be happy.
They'll all be self-contained.
The community won't have a problem with them
and that solves all the problems.
And it, I just figured, let me just go there
and see what I can work out.
And it worked out great.
Yesterday it was like shooting fish in a barrel for me.
So how do you approach something like that?
You just show up to the mobile home park
with your camera in your hand.
Hey guys, I want to-
No, like I don't want to travel all the way
across your country for nothing.
Right, exactly.
I'm sure you have some sort of-
But that's happened.
Because my saying that I use a lot with this project
is you got to kiss a lot of frogs.
And sometimes I'll do these interviews
and I got to sit through 45 minutes of pain and misery
and really difficult things that are being shared.
And I'm not going to use it.
Because I only use about one out of six that I shoot.
So it's not like I just shoot videos and put them up.
I shoot a lot of videos and I use only the best ones.
But sometimes you just have to like wing it
and just show up and do it that way.
Because sometimes you can't really set things up.
Like I'm a photographer from LA
and I'm going to come to St. Petersburg, Florida
and I'm going to interview you pedophiles.
Don't call, yeah, right.
That's not going to work.
Right, of course.
That doesn't fly.
So you have to feel everything out
and every single situation is different.
So you can't, there's no formula for how you can get
a Ku Klux Klan member to share his story.
Because they don't like doing interviews
because they usually get colored as bad guys
or racist or whatever,
which you can say whatever you want about them.
But all I'm looking to do is a non-judgmental interview
with them.
Not good or bad.
I'm not saying anybody is good or bad.
It is what it is.
The pedophiles, the sex offenders,
I'm not saying anything good or bad about them.
Every single one came back to me later on
and said that was great.
Thank you for talking to me.
So that's a huge part of it.
How do you approach them though?
I just tell them what I'm doing.
What exactly do you say to them?
I mean, you have to feel it out.
You have to be a chameleon
to figure out what will work for you,
what will work for her,
what will work for all these different people.
And it's not the same approach all the time.
It's always very different.
And I'm very good at feeling that out.
So again, it goes back to the list
that Richard Branson mentioned.
It's like you need to,
like one of my strengths is I'm able to figure out
what you might be thinking or feeling.
And I can adapt my behavior to work with you
by speaking a little more slowly
or saying the right things
or maybe it's just about money for you
or maybe it's not about money.
Like in Appalachia, money doesn't work.
Really? Money doesn't work.
They don't even take money.
The majority of the interviews in Appalachia,
you know, when we're all done, I pay people.
And I'll put like $100 in their hand and they jump back.
No, they won't even take the money.
Yeah, one of your most popular video series
on your channel is about an inbred family, right?
Where did they live?
It's got 12 or 13 million views.
Yeah, it's got like an insane amount of views.
When I was doing Create Equal, my first book,
which is all American portraits.
I went to every state and I did portraits
of all kinds of people, from astronauts to ballerinas
to politicians to drug addicts, everything.
Everything you can imagine that exists
in the United States, polygamists, everything.
We were in West Virginia just driving around as I would do.
And just driving around, just with no goal,
no one to hook up with, we were just looking around
and went to a convenient, like a little truck stop
and there was a cop there.
And I just, you know, cops are really good to talk to
because they know everybody.
They know all the stories and all this stuff.
So I went up to the cop and told him what I'm doing.
He goes, yeah, I could do that.
I get off at two o'clock.
Like, great, I'll meet you too, right here.
So I did, and he just took me to a whole bunch
of different spots that were incredible.
He was great.
I use these kind of contacts very often.
And he was one of the best in Raleigh County, West Virginia.
He was amazing.
And he eventually, not on the first trip,
but the second trip there,
took me to see the Whitaker family in Odd,
a town called Odd, West Virginia.
Odd, West Virginia.
Yeah.
Well, West Virginia and Kentucky have a lot of these towns
that just have the strangest names.
I just did a video, I think last week of a girl
that lives in Hell for Certain, Kentucky.
And there's the most ridiculous names for towns
in both West Virginia and Kentucky.
So there's a town in West Virginia called Odd.
And there's a bunch of other.
And this cop just took you to these guys, the Whitakers?
Well, no, what he actually said, it's a great story.
He, this was a second trip to West Virginia.
The first one, we were doing some other things
and all our equipment got rained on.
So we had to just like, we can't even shoot here.
We can't rent new equipment
because we're in West Virginia.
So we had to pack up and go home.
But he said, when you come back,
make sure you bring video camera
because you're gonna need video for this.
And this was back when I was,
this was 2004 when I was doing Great Equal,
which was just photography, no videos.
And he goes, make sure you bring a video camera.
And I'm just like, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't do video.
I've never touched a video camera in my life.
So we went back to LA and then two weeks later,
we came back and he goes, you brought a video camera, right?
I'm like, no, I didn't.
He got all pissed at me.
He was like, like, I told you to bring a video camera.
And then, so whatever, he took us there
and he was exactly right.
It was the most,
like that little scene from Deliverance that everyone knows.
We come around this, you know, we were on a road
and it turns into this little country road.
Then it turns into a dirt road.
And we come to this trailer
and then a little shack on the other side of the road.
And there's these people walking around
and their eyes are going in different directions
and they are barking at us.
And the one guy, you'd look at him in the eye or say anything
and he would just scream and go running away
and his pants would fall around his ankles
and he'd go running off and go kick a garbage can.
And this would happen over and over.
It was out of control.
The craziest thing I've ever seen.
But eventually, you know, it's an interesting story.
This shows you how I operate.
This is why the barrier to entry for this project
is incredible and barrier to entry
is the key to making business successful,
whatever you're doing.
Cause if you just do something that's easily duplicatable,
then everyone's just gonna copy it and do it.
But here's, this gives you a window into what I do.
So this family in West Virginia gets,
they're like kind of protected by the neighbors
and the relatives and whatever.
They don't like people coming to ridicule these people
and everybody in the area kind of knows of them
and well, let's just go over to the Whitakers
and laugh at them or something.
This kind of stuff happens.
So I was this city slicker with cameras
and it's a pretty, not a huge production,
but it's like, it's clearly I'm not from around here
and it's clear that I'm doing something different.
So just my luck, we showed up
and somebody in their family had just passed away.
And they were all mourning the death of their aunt
or their grandmother or somebody.
And I asked one of the brothers who actually spoke
if I could do these portraits.
And he goes, no, we just had a death in the family
and we're all mourning and we're having a funeral soon
and it's just not a good time.
Like, dammit, I came all the way out here and this happens.
It's just terrible timing.
So I have to be respectful and say, okay, I'm sorry.
Thank you.
Maybe I'll come back and that's just the way it goes.
But then I started thinking about it.
Like, you know what?
It might be really nice for them if,
because I was shooting eight by 10 Polaroids at the time.
Eight by 10 film, but then shooting eight by 10 Polaroids.
So they get a big instant print.
And I said, if I shot Polaroids of them,
they could have a print of the entire family
and they could include that in the casket
with their loved one and they might actually be into that.
So I shot one of the members of the family
and then I shot a second one and a third and a fourth
and then eventually they liked that idea.
And they said, okay, and that's what I did.
And I ended up getting portraits of everyone I wanted to.
And I gave them a print and did all the little nice things
I do behind the scenes and they, that was that.
It was a nice little relationship I started.
And we would go back, whenever I'd be in West Virginia
shooting like other projects and stuff,
which wasn't often, but once or twice I'd be there
and I'd go visit them and say hi.
And then so now I'm working on this project and
I was just like, let's just drive by and say hi again.
And I knew I couldn't do an interview like I do,
which is a little more civilized like this.
These people are so hard to,
it's hard to communicate with them.
Right.
And I don't know if it was ever gonna work out anyway.
So it was, I was just with my iPhone.
I just picked up my iPhone and I shot this stupid little
video just kind of to show that the level of,
level of poverty, level of everything that was in that
family without any, it wasn't meant for my channel
because I won't post a video unless it has the portrait.
And I couldn't get another portrait.
I knew that wasn't gonna be in the works.
Last time it was a miracle that it happened.
I don't think that was gonna happen again.
So I was just shot this little video.
And as I was shooting, I realized this is kind of
interesting, this might actually work.
Let me just follow through with it and see if maybe.
So, you know, I see a lot of comments.
I get all the kind of comments from this is, you know,
everything you can imagine on a video that becomes
that popular, it becomes really interesting just to read
the comments, but everything from I'm gonna exploit
a bastard to this is incredible and everything in between.
But I figure I was going with that.
But it just turned into something like, yeah,
I guess I could kind of use this.
I can use the portraits from create equal,
which is what I did.
And I can post it.
The video.
The video.
And I did.
And I didn't know what, it didn't really fit the channel.
I didn't really say anything in the video.
It was just something that was, it feels exploitive,
but, but I, but you know, I think it's good for us all
to know that a lot of these things exist.
For sure.
You know, people say, oh, you're, what you're doing
is exploitive all the time.
Look, a hotel, the hotel I'm staying at
while I'm here in Tampa, they're exploiting my need to sleep.
Yeah.
The rest of the restaurant that I had breakfast at
is exploiting my hunger.
Everything is exploitive.
You know, you take a picture, you know,
photography and video, especially by nature, exploitive.
Cause if I take a picture of a girl for an ad,
you're exploiting her beauty.
You're paying her for her beauty
and you're using it in an ad that's,
is that not exploitive?
So everything can be viewed as exploitive.
Except the difference is this is actual real shit.
That's, that's, that's whatever it is,
paid acting or modeling or whatever you're right now,
right here, you're shining a light on something that's real.
Like you're shining a light on an actual,
well, an actual wound.
My, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, there's so many different ways
of looking at what I do.
And a lot of people take a negative view saying,
oh, you're just exploiting these people for money.
I'm not really making money, but, but one day I might.
So you have to take that off the table.
So I'm, one day I might make money.
So, so yes, I'm exploiting people for money,
but I'm also kind of exposing or just creating awareness
of what's going on in our country
and in terms of like drug addiction and gang violence
and sex work and all these destructive things
that people are going through.
And like all the poverty that's, that's, you know,
people can say all these people in Appalachia
are living wonderful lives, leave and be, yeah,
but they could also get a lot more support
from the government or from corporations or something
so they could not be digging up roots
in the middle of the winter, climbing mountains to survive
on $10,000 a year.
That's a rough life.
Despite the fact that they don't complain,
it's still a really rough life.
And I think a lot of these things are important to,
that we all understand what's going on in the country.
So that's, that's an important thing to,
to consider when you're saying it's just exploitive.
And yes, they're exploitive.
If I take a drug addict and I do an interview with her,
she takes the hit because she's been made to look bad.
Now, I didn't trick her into doing that.
She came to me or, or I might have asked her and said,
you know, but I want, I tell everybody right up front,
like this is going to be on YouTube,
your family, the police, your kids, your relatives,
everyone you know will could see this video.
And I make sure they understand that going in.
And if they still want to do it, then we do it.
But, but yes, these people don't look great
in these videos sometimes
cause they're, they're being exposed as homeless drug addicts.
So for that, that, that person maybe takes a little bit
of a hit, but they're happy and I compensate them nicely
and I continue to take care of them long
after the video is posted in different ways.
You know, here and there, I'll give them money for this
or whatever.
I'm not, I'm not going to cure their addiction.
That's a whole nother conversation that we can get into.
But, but it's, it's a, for that one person to be vulnerable
for that one person to be vulnerable
and say, here's what I'm going through.
And this is how it happened.
I was molested at six years old.
That's a painful thing for me to sit with
for the rest of my life.
I discovered this drug, it kind of numbs the pain.
I escaped from all my pain and I can live peacefully
for a while, but then I started doing it more regularly
and I became addicted.
And now I'm a hardcore addict
and now I'm doing sex work to pay for my drugs
and I'm homeless and my life is a shambles.
I've lost my kids, I've lost my everything.
My family won't talk to me and my life's a train wreck.
I think it's important for us to understand
that the child abuse that happened to her at six years old,
sorry, is important for us to factor in
to everything that we're doing and going on
and just like, and, and, and my videos.
You know, it's like, if we, if we do, we can,
all right, let's, let's say, all right,
I'm not going to do the videos anymore.
Let's just let Mary Ann continue to
live her life and create the cycle of destruction
and then her kids will get molested
by her uncle who was, you know, doing whatever.
And then they just continues on for another generation
and it'll continue on for many generations.
So I think by creating some awareness,
we can say, hey, maybe we shouldn't leave
the six year old kid with the uncle.
Do we know what the uncle is doing when, when we're,
we're off and the kids alone?
I mean, so, so a little understanding and awareness
of what can go on doesn't mean it always does,
but, but seems to happen a lot is important.
So I think there's a benefit in these videos.
I think there's an exploitative nature to them.
And there's always a good side and a bad side to everything.
Is Christmas, which one is Christmas?
Is it a, a celebration of the birth of Jesus?
Or is it an, a holiday where retailers are exploiting the,
you know, everybody is, everybody,
we're all buying gifts for everybody.
They're going to make 80% of their profit for the year
during December.
Which one is it?
It's both. It's always both.
When a, when a, when a very attractive female
marries a very wealthy man,
is it because he's going to provide security
and a better life than the guy she went to high school with?
Or is it true love?
Right.
It's both. It's always both.
And it really depends on your perspective.
So whenever, whenever I see these terribly negative comments
or even the positive ones, you also,
yet you have to factor in that, that person's take on it.
Are they, are they envious that maybe I thought of this
and I have the courage to do it?
Are they, there's so many different factors behind the scenes,
but it's never as simple as, oh,
these are just exploitive and that's it.
Yeah.
It's much more complex.
I stopped looking at the comments over a year ago.
Cause I realized, I realized very quickly,
it's not good for your mental sanity.
It's not good for your sanity.
No, I tend to steer away from them.
I might watch them a little bit in the morning
when I'm having breakfast and that's about it.
But otherwise it's just.
It's so toxic.
It's toxic.
It really is.
It's toxic because, because people I know,
like I've asked all my friends,
have you ever left a comment on YouTube?
Like no one I know has ever done it.
No.
I've never done it.
But, but, you know, having said that,
there's still a ton of people that make these really positive,
evolved, compassionate comments on my channel.
And that's beautiful to see.
And that's the majority.
But for every, every 10 of those,
there's one that's just like really messed up.
It's the opposite for me.
And it's human nature to only like the negative ones
sinks in the positive ones.
You just like, oh, that's cool.
That's cool.
The negative ones sticks with you.
Yeah.
So I find I'm happier if I just,
I'm doing this for myself.
I'm not doing it for anybody else.
I'm not trying to make anybody happy.
Some people say, oh, I hate these appellation people.
Stop doing that.
Get back to the drug addicts.
And other people say these appellation things are great.
That's all I watch.
I don't give a fuck.
Right.
I'm not doing it for anybody else.
I never understood the people on, on the internet
who create content only for the viewers.
I mean, like the customer's always right.
Like, tell me what you want me to do next.
Like there's a lot of people I've talked to on here.
We have really successful channels on YouTube who say,
I only do what people suggest in the comments.
Like I don't do anything else.
No, I do this 100% only for myself.
And if I think the hillbillies in Kentucky
and West Virginia are interesting,
I'll just do that and nothing but for the rest of my life.
But most likely I'll,
I'm probably going to steer away from that soon.
And then I'll do something else around the country.
And I'll find that interesting.
And I'll stick with that for a while
and I'll keep jumping around all over the country.
Cause there's interesting stuff everywhere.
There's a lot of interesting stuff right here
in Tampa and St. Pete.
I feel like me and you are so much the same
in the aspect of our transition from advertising into...
Did you work in advertising?
Creation or own content.
Yeah, my whole life.
Oh, you did?
Not my whole life, but when I was young,
I picked up a camera and just started making videos
when I was like 15 years old
and eventually started getting paid to do that.
And it was more of in like the entertainment industry.
Okay.
Basically like shooting and producing commercials
and TV pilots and then worked into feature films.
And then after that kind of transitioned into advertising,
I started my own digital media agency
where we did like full scope branding
for local brands and like national brands as well.
And it was more so video and creative,
not so much photography.
And same exact thing as you.
Same exact thing that you're saying to me
is I started to hate it.
I started to eventually it just was like,
okay, I'm just doing what these people,
I'm doing what these people need.
I'm putting my heart and soul into this work
so these people can just make a profit.
And it's soul sucking at the end.
It just became just so redundant and soul sucking for me.
I was just like, as well with the creating like TV pilots
and pitching them to networks
and having these old men in suits telling me
how I need to change this piece that I made,
this creative masterpiece that I created.
So it would fit their advertisers, right?
Like I'm creating content not for what it is
or how it's gonna affect people,
but I'm creating it so it will fit the mold
of what their advertisers will pay them.
And that's what I just got the worst haste in my mouth
from that industry.
And I was just like, fuck that, I'm gonna start,
I'm gonna take everything that I've made
over the past 10 years,
I'm gonna repackage it and put it on YouTube.
And that's how I transitioned into doing stuff on YouTube.
But the difference between me and you I think is like,
I needed money.
I was like, I didn't get paid a lot doing that during,
I mean, I made good money,
but not an insane amount of money.
I wasn't gonna be paid by Apple.
I think my biggest client was like Land Rover.
But I was like, I need to make a slow transition
from the paid advertising industry
into doing my own shit on YouTube.
Yeah, I was lucky and I had savings from my past career
that I could just do whatever I wanted to.
And this is what I wanted to do.
And if I wanna shoot hillbillies
and nothing but for the rest of my life,
that I'm free to do that.
So you're set, you don't have to ever make a dime
on YouTube.
No, no, no, no, I mean, I mean,
I tend to do things with gusto, whatever I do.
If I care, whether it's a project or a relationship
or a house or whatever, I do, I'm very intense.
I do, I'm very intense.
Like anybody that knows me just like, he's wound up.
I'm wound up to a fault.
But I can relax and kick back sometimes,
but right now I'm just, I'm in work mode
and I'm just like, I just work all day every day,
seven days a week, that's all I do.
And I love it, I'm happy.
But doing advertising, you just,
you're tolerance for doing things for money
just got wore thin.
Yeah, like a creative prostitute.
Yeah, yeah, no, it's exactly it.
It's exactly the same.
And you talk to all these prostitutes,
and I ask them either on camera or off.
I mean, do you respect the guys that you see
and every single one of them says, no, of course not.
These guys are all a bunch of creeps.
And it's like, I had some really great clients
that I still continue, I'm still friends with
from advertising, but the whole nature
of doing things for money is just, it's hard.
You can do it once in a while.
Okay, I just did it last week.
And it's like, okay, it was cool.
Nice client, but.
It's nice if you could pick and choose, right?
It'd be nice if you could pick and choose,
but this project for me is a reaction
to all the stuff I did for money.
So there is no way, like let's say some big network
picks it up and wants to do a version of this channel.
Let's say they offer me a gazillion dollars and say,
yeah, but you need to, whenever the girl talks
about how she got head sex or raped
when she was six years old.
You gotta cut that out.
You gotta tone that down.
We can't include that.
That's too dark.
Then I just would turn it down.
Cause I'm not doing this for the money.
I'm doing it because it's real.
That's amazing, man.
Like you're traveling.
And that's maybe why people respond to it.
Cause it's clearly on, yeah, it's just raw.
It says raw as I possibly could make it.
And it's just real life.
It's just, these are all real stories.
I'm sure some of them are embellished.
That's what you do.
And you tell me about your high school days.
I'm sure you're going to tell the story
where the gym coach was like 350 pounds
and he was seven feet tall.
When he actually was like, you know, six foot two
and he was 220 pounds.
But that's what happens with stories over the years.
But the rawness of these and the realness of it,
it's just, that's why I think the audience
has grown so quickly.
So you're traveling the world.
You're traveling the country.
I'm trying to make it just the country.
If I did the world, I think it would take time off my life.
And you've been in Florida for three days now, right?
It'll be a total of 48 hours.
And I'm guessing you're working at least eight
to 10 hours a day.
More than that.
And you're doing this without making any money.
Yeah, yeah.
No, like, that's insane.
Well, these sex offender videos,
you think I'm going to make any money on that?
Look, what I paid, each of these 10 guys is a lot.
You know, for a pedophile to come on
and tell you everything that he's done,
which all these guys did.
And some of them were victims of stings and stuff like that.
So their stories are not so damning.
But a lot of these guys have these horrific stories
that just make the hair stand on the back of your,
everything.
It costs me a lot of money to get these 10 interviews.
And I'm not going to make a penny on,
I may make $15, $20, $30.
Would it be a nice thing to happen
for a couple of years down the road for Netflix
to come to you?
Yeah, yeah, that would be good.
That would be good.
And if it ever did.
That would be a nice, you would like that.
Yeah, no, that would be helpful.
Because what I could do with more financial support
would make what I'm doing now pale.
But I just don't want to spend that kind of money
on something that, you know, I can go broke.
And even though I might have a lot of money,
I can burn through that.
Well, I mean, if you don't have money,
you might, you may not be making dollars,
but you're certainly gaining influence online.
I mean, you have over a million subscribers.
Yeah, yeah.
You have a lot of attention.
I don't, I don't even know.
I mean, it says I have a 1.4 million subscribers,
but I don't think I do.
Cause like the video I posted today has,
or let's say the one yesterday,
I got my wifi turned off.
Let's say the video I posted yesterday
has 25, 30,000 views.
Or maybe 60,000 views.
That to me tells me that I have about 60,000 subscribers.
Not 1.4 million.
Cause there might be 1.4 million
that have been on my channel at a certain point.
And no, I'm gonna subscribe to that.
But they're not watching every day.
What I get on my lowest videos,
which is just, you know, 30 to 60,000,
that's how many subscribers I think I have.
Yeah, it's definitely,
it's not as transparent as you would imagine
with the YouTube, the way out the algorithm works
and who they push their content to
and why they push their content.
Well, YouTube's been really good to me.
Cause they recommend my videos a lot.
Do they?
Yeah, I get lots of views.
You know, I think, I don't really know.
I don't know anything about social media,
but it seems like I'm getting a lot of like,
people say, oh yeah,
I get recommended your stuff all the time.
Okay.
So that seems to be a good thing.
So I think YouTube's been good to me,
even though they do demonetize a lot of my stuff.
Yeah, I mean, that is a common thing.
But we're talking about sex and child abuse
and drugs and murder and gang violence
and child molestation, all these,
those are not gonna get monetized.
Yeah.
I'm just not gonna get monetized.
So.
Advertisers don't want it.
What was like one of the most
gut wrenching stories that you heard
in St. Pete talking to those pedophiles?
Like what was one of the craziest
encounters you had down there?
Oh, you know, let me wait till the videos come out.
See, people don't understand.
I do these interviews,
and it's not like I'm sitting there absorbing
everything that's being said.
It's impossible.
I don't think any human could sit through
10 of these things all day long
and soak up every single story.
I don't know how therapists do it.
Hmm.
Yeah.
I think professional therapists probably just kind of
doesn't absorb everything.
They must have some tool.
You're just trying to get stuff out of them, right?
I'm just trying to let them talk, tell their stories.
And that's why sometimes I'll see these things.
Like you asked them how many kids they have
twice in one interview.
Look, I'm doing, I'm operating two cameras,
framing, exposure.
I'm using natural light.
So the light changes if a cloud goes by.
The audio levels, the, like let's say something happens
on their wardrobe or their hair or whatever.
I need to, I'm doing, I'm like a one man band
doing so many things all at once.
That it's so impossible to, oh, and also
while I'm doing all this, I'm conducting an interview.
I need to keep track of your story.
And I just talked with nine other people
and I can't remember were you molested by your uncle
or your dad or your cousin or were you not molested?
I don't remember who's who.
And it all becomes a blur after a while.
So for me to remember every aspect of every single,
people think I do one interview and I'm just sitting there
like a talk show host doing that one interview
and I'm very conscious.
That talk show host is not operating cameras or microphones
or worried about the 12 people outside
that are trying to get in and people that are texting me
saying, hey, I need this, I need that.
And I, every single day of the year,
I get between 10 and 50 messages from people saying,
hey, I need money for this, I need money for that.
My kids got cancer, my this, my that.
People you've interviewed?
Yeah, people I've interviewed.
They all need something
and there's always an excuse why they need it.
And I have to deal with that all the time.
I just bought a second phone
so I can kind of split the two
because at some point it just becomes ridiculous for me.
Do the stories ever affect you personally, emotionally?
I mean, obviously when you're producing them,
you're worried about a slew of different things,
mechanically and visually, audio, everything.
But after you edit them and you post them,
do they ever kind of hit?
Yeah, there are certain people that just really,
you see how terrible their lives have been.
And your heart can't not go out to them.
I'm not, I'm human.
So it's like when LaToya tells me her story
and how horrible her childhood was,
her whole life still is.
Man, my heart just, when I see her on the street
and she comes over, I just grab my wallet
and say, what do you need, honey?
Let me help you.
Cause I just, what am I gonna say?
You know, I can't help you today.
Right.
So I do, I do it all the time.
And I can't cure her childhood.
I don't have the ability to do that.
If I could, I would, but I can't.
And we can't cure all these.
I mean, that's the tragedy of all these stories.
It's like, people will use common sense
and their hearts in the right place,
but they see these stories and like,
Mark, did you didn't help this person?
Like, they're not helpable.
You're not trying to help them, right?
I mean, I do a lot of that kind of stuff,
but I don't want this to become a help channel.
Right.
Like my channel is not about, oh, we're gonna save so-and-so.
We're gonna make them all better.
We're gonna patch them all up and fix them up
and they're gonna live happy ever after.
You can't go back in time.
You're trying to, you're trying to repair something.
You're trying to repair a childhood.
You're trying to repair what happened to her
at six years old and that's deep in her subconscious.
And how do I fix her subconscious?
I don't even know.
I don't even know how to do that.
By trying to stop it happening to future people.
That's what I, that's, that's my take on this.
Like it seems like preventing it
from the happening to the next generation
would be the best attack on this.
It may not fix Latoya,
but it'll perhaps fix her kids
that are being raised by somebody else.
And maybe it won't happen to them.
But, but I mean, I've seen firsthand
what it's like to try to help these people.
It's so much work.
It takes all your time, money, focus, energy to, to try.
It takes a team of people to try to help one person.
And it still doesn't work.
And you know, you, everybody says,
oh, you just do a go fund me for somebody.
All you're doing is throwing cash at somebody
who's got a drug problem in most of these cases
or some other type of problem.
And that money doesn't get spent in the proper ways.
And you could argue that, oh,
then you handle the money and you spend this
and then make sure it goes in the right place.
Look, I'm, I'm one guy.
I'm one guy operating all these cameras,
traveling, doing all this stuff all by myself,
not making money doing it.
And you want me to help so and so.
While you sit on your sofa,
watching YouTube videos saying,
why don't you help this person?
I'm like, come on.
You are a mad man.
You're, you said you shot 10 videos yesterday.
Yesterday, yeah.
I do that a lot.
That's insane.
That's fucking insane.
I can do, I do one of these a week.
Maybe, maybe I record two a week,
but I only post one a week.
No, that's what I said.
I'm, I'm, I'm intense.
I'm longed out, man.
What is it?
What is it about you that makes you such a hard worker
and make you want to put out so much content?
Like, I mean, you're not,
you said yourself that you're not like a big social media guy.
So you're obviously not doing it to feed some sort of
algorithm.
I wish I was doing something other than social media,
but I don't even know what that would be.
Like photography, I do a very vertical portrait.
It's a special format that I,
that I came up with to do a full length human portrait.
So the, the, the, the perspective, the ratios are basically
what a human body is a six foot tall person, right?
And I had cameras custom made for that and all that.
And that doesn't, that's a very vertical image
that doesn't fit into a wide format like YouTube
or a square one like Instagram or anything else
that's on social media.
They're all, they all don't work well with a vertical image.
So what do I do?
So I do that pan, which is a huge compromise,
but what else do I do?
And I, and to me, the photography is more important
than the portrait.
I mean, than the interview,
the portraits more important than the interview.
For you. For me.
Really?
For me, if I had to choose one or the other,
I would do the photography.
Why?
There's so much more in the interview, I feel like.
Oh, I know.
I see the value in the, in the interview
and everyone else does too.
And I get that.
And I see that that's important to, to be honest.
Don't get me wrong.
The photography is beautiful.
The photography I'm very proud of.
The interviews, I'm not so much the early ones.
I didn't put any effort into them.
I didn't care about the audio.
I didn't care about the, how the background looked
or anything looked.
I just like pointed a camera.
If it was out of focus, I almost didn't care.
Cause I really wanted to put zero effort into the video
to make sure that, you know, I was,
what I was doing is highlight.
It's all about the portrait for me.
And if, if, if the interview could just be audio only
sit behind the portrait, that would be cool for me.
I'd be happy with that.
But, but, you know, I started doing the videos
the way I do them.
But as, as time went on, I kind of like,
all right, let me, let me make it look a little bit better.
It's hard to look at that and it's hard to listen to it
cause the audio is so bad,
especially at my Skid Row studio
where there's so much background noise.
It's awful, terrible.
I mean, the noise and the sirens and the people
in the background and the music
and all the crazy shit that goes on.
It's hard to do audio there.
But I, the reason I'm there, you people would say,
well, why don't you just get a studio that's quieter
somewhere away from Skid Row.
I have to be right where I'm right in the heart
of all the action in order to get the people
to be willing to come in, open up their hearts and souls
and their, their subconscious, basically,
to share those stories and feel free
that they can run out if they have to.
Right.
Or at least when they're done, they feel free.
But if they have to drive over here and do the talk,
I would get much more stifled interviews.
I wouldn't get the same kind of content.
What is the, what would you say is the common denominator
with all these people, like the pimps, the prostitutes,
the- Terrible childhood.
Terrible childhood.
For all of us, you, me and everybody else.
Yeah.
Anything specific about childhood or?
Well, I mean, I mean, I said this in one of the videos,
I think the one with Monica from Patrick Katie,
I said, you know,
Soft White Underbelly was Bluestar Cult's original name.
Whose?
Bluestar Cult, the band.
Oh, oh yes, yeah, yeah.
Their original name was Soft White Underbelly.
And I just thought that was a cool name.
And also kind of, Soft White Underbelly to me represents
the most vulnerable part of an animal, right?
It's like, what's the most vulnerable part of a dog
or a cat or a coyote or a bear?
It's their stomach.
It's not protected, it's soft, it's white usually.
Soft White Underbelly is the most vulnerable part
of the country.
So these stories are all about these children
when they're most vulnerable, get broken.
And that's just so fucked up.
Yeah.
And if we're not aware of how this all happens,
then it'll just continue.
It'll just continue for another 300 years or 3000 years.
So why not expose what's broken
so that maybe we can do things to protect our animals?
To protect kids.
So maybe this shit won't happen to Latoya or her kids
or the next Latoyans.
So there's a lot of things that are really wrong.
And you gotta put out these painful stories
in order to figure it all out.
And that's all I'm doing.
So somebody says, oh, you're exploiting these people
and all that, it's like, fine, let's just not do it.
Let's just let all these kids get molested
and beaten up and abused.
And just get back to our Starbucks
and forget about it all.
Or we can look at it and maybe like create some awareness.
And I see that kind of starting to happen.
People are going, man, this is really fucked up.
The foster system is so broken.
There's so many stories of things
that are just gone so bad in these people's lives.
And I think just by becoming more aware
of how these things happen and how often they happen,
we can do things to prevent it.
Not a hundred percent of the time,
but definitely a lot more than we're doing now,
which is none.
It seems to just happen all the time.
And so, what is it about Skid Row specifically?
Like your studio's on Skid Row.
What is it about Skid Row that,
I mean, why is it such a condensed?
Well, I mean, the city of LA kind of just decided,
like rather than having these people all over the city,
let's try to keep them in one contained spot
and just let them exist there.
No one goes there.
Most people drive around it or avoid it.
And it's kind of out of the way.
It's right next to downtown,
but no one really goes downtown
unless you're going to the downtown part of downtown.
Staple center.
Yeah, all that.
And there's some shopping and there's business
and all that stuff downtown,
but this is just east of downtown.
And you would never go there
unless you're trying to buy some crack
or heroin or crystal meth.
Do you think it's a good thing that Skid Row exists?
Or do you think there's a better option?
I mean, you could build a little thing out in the desert
where you take all these people and all the tents
and all that and you put them in the desert somewhere
and then they're out of sight.
They still exist.
They're still on our planet,
but you don't see them anymore.
So out of sight makes everyone feel better, perhaps,
but it's kind of like, that's what my videos do.
They make you see that this is going on.
And it goes on in every country.
I see it going on all over Tampa, you know,
right here, it happens all over your city.
And I've been to every state.
I've seen this kind of stuff in every state.
Maybe the population is smaller in North Dakota
than it is in LA, but it happens in North Dakota.
It happens everywhere, different forms of it.
It looks different North, you know,
it's American Indians, perhaps, in North Dakota.
And it's all kinds of people in LA.
And in Tampa, it's this and it's all over.
It seems like all you hear about in the news
is trillions of dollars being spent on different things,
different stimulus packages or different wars
that they're spending trillions of dollars on.
But there's all this shit going on right under our noses
that it seems like if you actually paid attention to it
and it was your job to pay attention to it,
it wouldn't be that hard to fix
if you had trillions of dollars.
It's a complicated, very complex problem.
You know, like when Nancy Reagan was doing her war on drugs,
just say no to drugs and all that kind of stuff.
It's like, drugs are not the problem.
No. Drugs aren't the problem.
Drugs are just a symptom of the problem.
The problem is these people had terrible, terrible, terrible
things happen to them when they were six years old.
Usually it's something to do with their dad
or their uncle or their cousin or whatever.
And that's painful for a human to deal with.
So what do you do?
You become hyper-sexualized or you start using drugs
or you do something to escape from that.
And if you do enough drugs, eventually you become addicted.
So then you're a drug addict.
So let's say you cure that addiction.
You haven't solved the problem.
The problem is what happened to her at six years old.
How do you fix that?
You don't.
So you can patch her all the time you want,
but she'll eventually keep redoing the same behavior.
And that's really what's going on.
Well, how do you fix that?
How do you fix the people who created that problem?
How do you fix the uncle?
How do you stop that?
I mean, what is the answer to creating less losers?
Maybe you castrate these guys that are sex offenders.
Maybe something happened to that guy though
when he was a kid.
No, it did.
It was a chain reaction.
I'm totally non-judgmental in these talks I did yesterday.
I'm not saying, dude, you're a bad dude.
You're evil.
I'm never saying that, ever.
And then as well, I mean, I'm sure you,
like I'm not, again, I'm not saying it's good or bad,
but I'm sure a lot of people who are living in that village
full of sex offenders are people who didn't commit
crazy crimes and maybe they were in the wrong place
in the wrong time and a girl was drunk and underage.
I talked to one guy who was, he met a girl in a club.
He had to be 18 years old to get in the club.
So that means everyone there is of age.
She had a fake ID saying she was 19.
He was 25.
So she's six years younger than he is.
They had some fun.
Then he finds out that she was only 16
and he did like seven, eight years in prison.
And now he's a sex offender.
He has to register twice a year for the rest of his life.
He has to live in this, you know, this mobile home park.
He can't do anything with his life.
He can't get a job without, oh, you're a sex offender,
which is the worst thing you could ever be branded as,
right?
So good luck getting, you know,
because just to survive in the world,
you have to do it with gusto.
You have to be confident.
You have to be like, I'm gonna go kick ass
at this job interview tomorrow.
Watch me kick some ass tomorrow.
I'm ready.
These guys aren't ready for anything after that.
No, the system is fucked.
The system is not designed to help people become better.
It's designed to make money off people
who are often incarcerating people.
Yeah, no, I mean, I see that the cops,
they were very, this is just one guy's case.
And some of these guys are serial child rapists
and that's a totally different animal.
And one of the talks was on how there are all these
different levels of sex offenders.
One of the guys mentioned this in the talks yesterday.
And that was interesting, because I think he's right.
There are a sex offenders, not a sex offenders.
Some guys just, you know, I talked to one guy
who was just nothing but, you know, child porn.
And that became, I asked him,
what got you into child porn?
And he says, that was, it was just my,
I became desensitized to regular porn.
So I needed something more extreme.
And so that's one story.
Another one was a guy just got set up,
you know, the cops did a sting and he ended up
meeting this 14 year old girl at a gas station.
He was high on crystal meth and he was,
he just wanted to have some fun with somebody
and she turned out she was 14.
And the cops even, like, I think he told me the cops,
it was actually a woman of his age that he was meeting.
But then she said, oh, you got to meet my daughter.
My daughter's 13 or something like that.
So she's pimping at her daughter.
She was, it was a cop.
Oh, it was a cop.
It was a sting and they were saying,
my daughter's, you know, you should meet my daughter.
She's really whatever.
So the whole thing was all being set up by the cops
and the guy eventually got caught.
Never, never had sex with anybody.
But he got, he got, he got nailed.
So I'm not, I'm not defending anybody.
All I'm doing is presenting some stories.
I'm not saying anyone is good or anyone is bad.
I just think it's, I think it's important for us
to listen and understand.
How many interviews have you done in total?
Do you know?
Probably like 2,300 now.
2,300 interviews in the last year and a half.
Do you, what else do you do?
Do you have a family?
Do you have, do you have?
Yeah, I've, I've, I got divorced like five years ago
and I have two, two teenage daughters.
One's in college.
One's getting ready to go to college.
Seems like you don't have time for anything else.
I get up around three or four in the morning.
That's, that's, that's fucked up already.
That is fucked up.
And then I start editing in the morning
and then I go to the gym every morning
and then I usually edit a little more
and then I go shoot all day.
Sometimes, sometimes I just edit all day.
I'm traveling more now.
So the travel really throws a wrench and all that.
But I'll edit all day until I go to bed
and I do it all over again.
And that's all I do.
I have, I have like no social life.
I don't have any, I don't have any time for that.
You mentioned earlier.
I'm not complaining.
I love it.
If I didn't like it, I would stop.
But I feel like I'm onto something that's worthwhile
and I enjoy doing it.
So it's like, why, why should I not do that?
I could sit by the pool all day,
but I wouldn't be happy doing that.
I'd rather be inside editing.
So I stay busy.
Do you, do you feel like?
I'm happy, I'm happier now than I think I've ever been.
Really?
Doing this, yeah.
Do you feel like you're making a difference
in the world with this stuff?
Do you feel like you're,
I mean, I think there's potential for that.
I don't know if I am yet.
I don't, I see like in the trajectory of this project,
I'm like, I'm on the first page of that.
It's like, I'm just beginning.
But you must feel like that you've started to make a dent.
You must feel like you're starting to make a change.
I mean, what else, what else?
You must feel like something,
you must feel like something is pulling you, right?
Yeah, I have really high standards.
So whatever has been accomplished so far is not really,
it's nothing.
What is your, do you have a goal?
Well, I just, I just think like,
I'm not gonna ever share it.
I don't, I never talk about things I'm going to do.
Okay.
I put 100% of my focus and concentration on doing it.
And for me to tell anybody about what I'm going to do,
takes away that focus and energy from doing it.
And you need 100% of that focus and energy
to do whatever you're gonna do,
especially if it's something that's really challenging
and requires a lot of courage
and requires a lot of like something on your part,
you better just keep it to yourself and shut up and do it.
Because if you start talking about,
I've seen this a million times with people,
here's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna do this,
I'm gonna do that while we're sitting at Starbucks
having a coffee, you're not gonna do it.
It's almost a list of things you're not gonna do.
I've learned.
So I just, if I'm gonna do something,
I'm gonna shut up and I'm gonna do it.
And you're gonna be like, holy fuck, how did you do that?
Like you didn't tell me you were gonna do that.
That's how I operate.
I just keep it all to myself and I just do it.
I find I'm much more focused that way.
And you need all that focus you can get.
You know, my, like my, like Axel who works with me,
he says, you're the most focused person I've ever met.
I've read about Kobe Bryant.
He seems pretty intense too, he was.
Yeah, that's, that's.
But you need that kind of laser focus on just,
this is what I want to have happen.
And nothing close to that is gonna work.
If I get something that's kind of close,
but not quite, that's, that's garbage.
Cause there's only one thing I want to see happen.
And I'm not gonna show it.
That's super interesting.
What?
Cause if I start talking about what I'm gonna do,
I can guarantee you, I'm not going to do it.
Too much of the energy has already been dissipated.
And I just won't have what it takes to make it happen.
I can put some effort in, get half-assed and kind of do it,
but it really won't get done.
But if I shut up about it, I'll do it.
But in your mind, you must have a super clear, concise,
always laid out vision of where you're going, right?
Absolutely.
And did you, did you take time to play that?
Like I said, I'm really intense.
I mean, don't tell, I'm not asking,
obviously you don't want to share it,
but did you take time to lay out that path in your own mind?
Yeah, yeah, kind of.
But I'm also very, sometimes you have to improvise
and see that, oh, this is going to work better than that.
And there's always improvise,
there's always adaptation going on.
Like with this project, I find like my opinion
of what the problem is or my ideas
on what the most effective way to do what I'm doing
is changes almost every week or every month.
Like I'll learn something.
Like, oh, I didn't realize that that,
that would be something that people will respond to.
Or I didn't realize that that would be as,
it would resonate as much as I thought it would.
Or, you know, I'm learning stuff all the time.
I didn't realize, like just recently,
one of the biggest kind of discoveries I made
with, you know, cause really what I'm doing
is about the human struggle to just be happy.
That's really what I'm doing.
People think I'm doing videos on Skid Row
or on drug addicts.
I'm like, I'm not doing videos on drug addicts.
I did a whole bunch on drug addicts
because it's like an extreme version
of what you and I go through.
Like I've never smoked pot.
I don't even drink alcohol, no.
I don't have a problem with any of these,
but I never, drugs are not my issue.
And I don't have a gambling problem.
I don't have other problems,
but you know, I'm not perfect.
I've got issues like we all do.
And those struggles are common with everybody.
We all go through it.
And I, I forgot where I was going with this.
Oh, what I just discovered recently.
So.
You're always changing your approach.
Yeah, I'm always changing my approach,
but I learned something recently
that was just so heavy and so important.
And I'm still processing it today.
I don't want to name any names.
And she, she's not on my channel,
but there was somebody that I wanted to help.
That I wanted to interview, but she wouldn't do it.
But I wanted to help.
And she calls me one day and says, you know what?
I could use your help.
I'd like to get out of this, this life.
And I said, sure, that's cool.
Let me help you out, but I just want you to know,
there's no, there are no strings attached here.
I'm not, I'm not your sugar daddy.
I'm not, I'm not, there's no, I'm just going to help you.
You don't, you're not obligated to me in any way.
Just want you to know that right up front.
I'm not, I'm not, it's not this for that.
You're not trading this for anything.
I'm just going to help you.
I want to make that clear.
And I said, I was busy that day of shooting or whatever.
I said, let me call you tonight.
And sounded like this is, because I'm, I'm eternally hopeful.
I'm the, I'm, I'm the most optimistic, hopeful person
I've ever met, like no matter what obstacles there are,
I believe they can all be overcome no matter what they are.
And that's, and that's a great quality to have.
So this seemed to be, you know, again, it's, you know,
these are all long shots because very few people
actually climb out of their, these situations,
but I'm, but I'm like, I'm hopeful.
So like, let's give this a try.
And she seemed to have a lot of potential,
like a lot of potential.
Like, you know, you can, you can, you can fix your life
so beautifully.
I saw it so clearly.
And she and I talked about it and so on.
So, so I was going to call her that night.
So I call that night and she's like, not around.
That was weird.
This is an important phone call.
She had a cell phone?
Yeah. Okay.
And, uh, never, never was able to connect with the end.
And some weird little texts came back.
So I had an emergency or whatever.
And so we never connected.
And then I saw her on the street again shortly after that.
And she runs away from me, like avoids me.
Like, like I'm like a, like I'm a rapist or something.
I'm like, that doesn't make sense.
Never had any weirdness happen in the, in the interactions
between us.
And it was just, it was just weird.
What, what would make somebody do that?
And it continues to this day.
You know, I, I, I saw her before this trip and like,
just treating me like I'm just like the devil.
And I talked with some other people that do what she does.
And they said, Oh, it could be this, it could be that.
You know, and those all hold water,
but I honestly believe what it is.
You sometimes, sometimes you have to follow your intuition
and your intuition can tell you a lot.
And, and, and my intuition on this one is
you, you, you sometimes people just can't accept good
in their lives.
You just can't, and I represent good.
Cause I, I, I told her, I'm going to help you out.
This is going to be just to help you out.
It's free. It's not going to be like you trade it.
You're not buying anything.
You're not, there's no, I'm just helping.
And just, she rejected it so hard and heavy.
Like so, so it's like, like, like I'm, like I'm evil.
Like I'm, I'm representing something
that's just so foreign and bad.
And I think what it is, is like when, when you come from,
when you get to go through child abuse,
which maybe she went through, maybe she didn't,
but my suspicion is maybe there is something there
cause you don't end up in that kind of lifestyle.
If, if you didn't have something terrible go on
that your, it's your brain, the wires in your brain
get rewired and what's good is of no use.
And what's bad becomes what you go after.
And everything is criss-crossed.
And it's like, so you end up making terrible decisions.
You end up in a lifestyle that's really dangerous
and self-destructive and you go nowhere in life.
And eventually you probably get involved in drugs
or depression or something worse.
And that's where I felt it.
I just didn't represent any of that bad stuff.
I was just like looking to help out
without any strings attached and you get crap down for it.
I understand that cause I forgiveness
is the most important thing in the world to me.
Cause there's always an explanation for everyone's behavior.
One of the questions I ask a lot on my channel is
what's the, what does you do at the end?
What's the most important thing you've learned in your life?
And there's so many great lessons in life.
We could talk for three hours about all these,
all the great lessons there are.
But to me, the one that really hit me
that I never understood and then I never knew
and then I read it and I'm like in the Course in Miracles,
which is a, which is a kind of an interpretation of the Bible.
And I'm not religious.
I'm the least religious person you've ever met.
But I was reading the Course in Miracles,
which is like an interpretation of the Bible.
It's almost like a layman's version of the Bible.
Like the Bible, you can't read.
Like what the, I don't know what that's not English even.
I don't know what that is.
I can't understand a page of it.
Course in Miracles is kind of like a layman's version of that.
More understandable, more relatable.
And one of the things that's said,
this is one of the early books on it
that I was reading said everything we do
is either an act of love or an act of fear.
That's profound.
Everything we do.
When I read that, I put the book down for like,
like nine months or a year
and just sat there and processed that.
Cause if you think about everything we do,
you know, that mean thing that somebody did to you
or that whatever you, hell you did,
or that it's all just fear,
fear of not getting enough, fear of being hurt,
fear of this, you can always boil it down
to some fear of something.
And then once you understand it,
then all of a sudden you're like,
oh, so there's no reason to be,
there's no benefit in being fearful.
There's none, absolutely none.
It's like heaven and hell.
It's that extreme and it becomes like,
you can either act with love or not act at all.
That's what it boils down to.
And that, that to me is the most,
most important thing I've learned.
Wow, that's heavy.
It's what the world needs
because you look around and look, what is everybody doing?
What are, what is all these behaviors that we're seeing
that we're all just like, so up in arms about?
It's all fear, some form of fear.
And fear is not like, oh, I'm afraid of heights.
Fear can be afraid of not getting enough,
fear of something happened to me
like it happened to me when I was a kid,
fear of, fear of this, if you really boil it all down,
you see that, oh, that's just somebody's insecurity and fear.
Do you think that girl was afraid of you helping her?
It could have been anything because,
it could have been, could have been she had a pimp
who was threatening her, could have been,
could have been fear of doing the right thing
and getting her life straight.
And maybe that, that just is too daunting an idea
to foreign an idea.
Maybe she feels like she doesn't deserve it.
Cause once you have something happen to you,
you're like, man, I don't deserve any good in my life.
So you're going to reject it.
Even if it's, even if it comes with no strings attached,
even if it's just like, here, you can have this phone.
It's all yours.
You don't need to do anything except enjoy it.
It's, it could have been that, it could have been that,
you know, maybe there was some romantic thing going on
and that, that can scare people off, right?
You know, cause like when people are in romantic relationship,
sometimes people behave like,
why the hell are you behaving like that?
Because they're afraid of getting hurt.
Right.
But if you really have courage to override your fears,
you can go into that relationship with courage
and just be like, I know I might get hurt here,
but I'm going to take a risk.
Wow.
You have to.
There's no way around it.
Without risk, you get nothing.
What did I say?
No risk, no reward.
Risk, risk is such an important thing in life.
And that's what, that's one thing about me is,
is I, a lot of people are risk averse.
You know, a lot of people are just afraid of taking risk.
Oh, that's too scary.
That's too dangerous that you might get hurt.
You might get, you know, robbed, you might get whatever.
I'd been robbed like six, seven, eight times
down on Skid Row.
I knew I was going to get robbed before I got robbed.
I got gunned on my face one time.
That happens all the time.
On Skid Row?
Yeah, yeah.
All kinds of shit happens there.
I can tell you, I should write a book about all the stuff
that happens behind the scenes,
but I don't want that to be about what my channel's about.
It's not a soap opera.
And it's not a helping channel.
It's about awareness and understanding.
That's all I wanted to do.
That was my goal.
I'm doing this for me.
I'm not doing it for views.
So, so I just do these videos to create awareness,
but risk is such an important thing
in everything we do.
If you don't, if you don't take risks, then you're wasting
everybody's time, you know.
And I tend to love risk.
Like if I find something risky, that's what turns me on.
That's the only kind of female that interests me.
That's the only kind of project that interests me.
That's the only kind of project of any sort,
building a house, anything, anything that's not risky
just bores the fuck out of me.
I love risk.
I'm not a gambler, but I guess I am a gambler
in terms of like.
Yeah, you are a gambler.
Yeah, I do have a gambler.
Not at a casino, though.
I do have a gambling problem, but I never,
casinos do nothing for me.
I go walk through a casino and I'm like,
this is just noisy.
But in real life, risk is like, it's what turns me on.
I was telling you before, right before we started that.
Like one of my favorite stories is during Create Equal,
not this project, but Create Equal.
We were up in San Francisco, hold your thought.
So I was in San Francisco with one of my assistants
working on Create Equal.
I wanted to do a portrait of the Hell's Angels.
And you can't just like call them up.
I'm some stranger from LA, you just have to show up.
So, nine in the morning, I went to the clubhouse
in Oakland for the Hell's Angels, knocked on their door.
Nobody answered, knocked on the door louder.
Nobody answered, knocked on the door a third time.
What the fuck do you want?
Like this biker shows up and he wants to kill me
because I woke him up.
And most people would be like, well,
you don't want to do that.
But no, I do that.
I do that.
But I also know how to think on my feet really, really well.
That's one of the things I've learned is like,
no, I'll figure shit out.
I don't know what I'm gonna figure out.
I don't even know what I'm gonna have to figure out.
But whatever it is, I'll figure it out.
Do you bring people with you when you do this
or do you do it alone?
I do it.
I'll have an assistant driving,
but I don't want him involved.
I'm protecting him from getting hurt.
So he's off two blocks down the street.
And you're unarmed?
I never carry anything.
I've never shot a gun.
No.
I'm not into that.
But people always say you should know that.
Well, it's hairy.
I'm 6'4", and I can kind of take care of myself.
Yeah.
Even a biker, Hell's Angels, not gonna,
I mean, with a gun and a bat and a chain,
you could probably do some damage.
But I have a knack for, what's the word?
Diffusing?
I mean, whatever, if somebody's got something
that they're threatening me, I have a way of showing them
that look, I'm not a threat.
I'm not here to hurt anybody.
Here's what I'm doing.
Like with the pedophiles yesterday,
nobody said no to me because I presented to them away.
Like, look, I'm just looking to hear your story.
I'm not here to make you look like a bad guy.
I'm not here to do anything to you.
I'm not here to do anything other than
hear your side of the story.
And they can, I think people can sense
when somebody's up to no good or there's something shady
going on, and I don't do anything shady.
Like, I'm not a liar.
I don't do things to people that I have to,
like I go to bed tonight with a clear conscience
every day of my life.
And that's super important to me.
Cause like, I'm not tricking anybody into anything.
I'm not scamming anybody.
I'm not pulling anything.
I'm not pulling anything.
I'm just telling you what I do.
If you're interested, that's cool.
And if you're not, that's cool too.
Yeah, here an open book.
I'm an open book.
And I'm not here to play anybody.
I'm not here to scam anybody.
So that's super important.
And I think people can sense that.
And if you're just coming at people with like,
here's what I'm doing.
I think you're interesting.
Love to talk to you.
Love to hear your story.
People love to tell their stories.
Like, I mean, one of the things I find interesting
on my channel is a lot of these people
that have confessed to like, even murders
and crazy things.
There's a few people that have confessed to murders
or things close to it.
Things that don't have a statue of limitations on them.
So I was like, why the hell would you say that?
I'll say to them after the interview.
Like, why the hell would you say that?
I'm like, yeah, I'm not worried about it.
So you want me to put this on,
I can put it on YouTube, you sure?
Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
So what happened after you banged on that door,
the Hell's Angel guy, and he answered?
He slammed the door on my face.
And then I went across the street.
There's a little Mexican restaurant
that was serving breakfast.
I got breakfast for everybody.
And I brought it over.
And I brought a whole bunch of breakfast
and they enjoyed breakfast with me
and got to be friendly with them.
And I did a portrait of it, but an hour and a half later.
No interview?
No, I wasn't doing interviews then.
Okay.
That was before I even thought.
That was for your project.
That was for the Create Equal,
which is a book of portraits.
It's really just the template for what I'm doing now.
But Create Equal is just portraits.
There was no interviews.
I wish I was doing interviews then, but I wasn't.
And it takes a lot of maturity to do what I'm doing.
And I didn't have it then.
I did that back in 1999.
I started that project in 1999.
I just wasn't mature enough.
I wasn't bold enough.
I wasn't strong enough or whatever.
What do you mean maturity?
To do certain things,
you need to have a certain,
some wherewithal, some substance to yourself.
And I just didn't have it at the time.
But I do now.
So now I go up to everybody and anybody
and say, here's what I'm doing.
I'm gonna sit with you for 45 minutes or whatever
and hear your story in and out and do all that.
That takes a lot.
It's a great dream.
How did you acquire that substance or character or confidence?
You grow up.
You grow up.
I'm growing up a lot as I do this.
I listened to that first interview I did with Caroline,
which was in 2010, I think.
Sorry, who's Caroline?
Caroline is the heroin addict.
The very first interview I ever did.
We talked about that earlier, just a little bit.
She was a heroin addict on Skid Row
that I did the very first,
when the Canon camera came out and I just said,
oh, let me just do an interview.
Caroline, okay, go.
So that's who Caroline was.
I listened to that very first interview
and like, oh, I sound like a little kid.
I sound like a young, stupid kid.
I asked her some stupid questions.
I'm like, that's just dumb.
But whatever, I put it up.
But who I am now,
I would never even ask some of those questions.
I seemed to mature at the time.
So now I'm a little more seasoned.
It takes a certain something.
A couple of things I wanted to bounce off you.
One of them was, I feel like the project I decked hands I did
was so in line with what you're doing.
But the main difference was I was out there
for a long time shooting a lot of people,
interviewing a lot of people, shooting a lot of B-roll
and trying to turn it into a 30 minute sort of like
documentary with like a very specific feel,
like a very dark ambience.
I was very particular.
I spent days and days and weeks searching for specific music
that I wanted to use for a certain five second piece
of the videos, right?
I was very like romantic to it.
I was very attached to it.
And I was like, everything had to be perfect.
I didn't want to release it until everything sounded right.
And I was just like, it was so much a part of myself.
And I was so afraid of just like letting go of it.
And I feel like you've really overcome something there
with what you're doing and the scale of work you're putting out.
I don't feel like, do you have any sort of those feelings
when you're working on this stuff?
No.
I honestly believe, my whole life,
I believe that whatever I touch turns to gold.
So you can say that's BS and you say my stuff is crap,
but I believe that what I touch turns to gold.
But why?
I don't know.
I'm lucky.
What do you mean you touch it and it turns to gold?
What is it about you?
I think my photographs are better than everybody else's.
Do you think it's something that's only inside you,
that if you decide to put out a piece of work,
it's automatically gold?
Like what is it about you that makes it like?
One of my favorite quotes I ever heard was from Michael Jordan.
And I'm gonna paraphrase, so I'm sure I'm getting it wrong.
But it was, I forget the series,
it was the Chicago Bulls playing against,
I think the Utah Jazz and it was the finals
or the semifinals or whatever.
It was like the sixth or seventh game of the series.
The Bulls were down by two.
They had two, three seconds left in the game.
The Bulls had the ball in bounds.
The coach is like laying out the play.
Or you pass it here, boom, boom, boom,
then we're gonna try to get it to Michael
and then Michael will do the shot.
And he's laying out this whole plan
for this next three-second play.
And Michael just said, paraphrasing,
he goes, fuck that shit.
Give me the ball, get the fuck out of my way.
Like he knew, and he did, the Bulls won that game.
He knew, without a doubt, that he can get the job done.
I have that.
I'm not a basketball player, I'm a photographer,
but I know that if it's in my hands, I'm gonna do it.
I have no doubt in my mind.
And that's a great gift.
I could be wrong, I'm sure my photography
is not so great sometimes.
I'm sure somebody else could, maybe somebody
do a better job, but I don't buy it.
But do you worry about your work being perfect
before you put it out in front of millions of people?
It always is, it always is.
I'm so good at what I do.
I've been doing this since I was 14 years old.
It's all I've ever done, and I'm like obsessed
about doing it well.
So, like everything I do is great.
I mean, I'm sounding like a pompous jackass just on purpose,
but I'm trying to make a point,
and that point is I'm very confident.
And I really put a lot of work behind what I do,
so I don't really put out a whole lot of crap.
There's some videos that I probably put out
that are probably not worth,
there's three or four that I probably should take down,
but I just, I like putting one up every day,
so every once in a while.
Like right now, I'm out of town.
No one's editing videos, and I'm like, you know,
I've got some schedule to be put up for the next five days,
but at some point, there becomes a week period where like,
fuck, I don't have anything to put up, I didn't shoot it.
But whatever, I really believe in myself.
I think what I do, when I touch things, they're great.
I put a lot of effort in, though.
I put a ton of effort into what I do.
That's what people don't understand.
I make it look easy.
I make it look really easy.
I don't show you how much blood, sweat, and tears
go into it.
I don't like showing that.
Do you watch the videos after you post them?
No.
The only ones I ever watch, for some reason,
I find Lewis.
Lewis is this alcoholic that I've interviewed.
I mean, there's some that I watch.
You know, I'm so immersed in it all that I don't.
And I'm editing them, so I see them when I'm editing them.
But the ones that I would actually sit and watch,
sometimes I find Lewis's delivery.
He's almost like a comedian.
And it's very entertaining.
He should be a comedian.
He's really fun to watch.
And there are other people that are really kind of charismatic
and they're interesting to listen to,
but I tend to not do that.
I don't have a time for it.
Another thing I want to bounce off you,
and again, I'm the only reason I'm bringing this stuff up
is because I feel like I can learn a lot
from asking you these questions.
You mentioned that, Richard Branson quote,
about making the four different lists of things
that you're good at, things you're not good at,
things you like, things you hate.
Yeah.
I feel personally that this thing, this podcast,
these raw conversations are somewhat very much the same
as a lot of the documentaries that I've done,
and also so different.
Number one, I mean, the main difference is it's,
basically it's a documentary minus all the prep work,
minus all the travel, minus all the music,
minus all the B-roll, it's just straight, raw dialogue.
Which is great.
It's just raw story.
It's like what Joe Rogan does.
And it's everything I'm not good at though.
No, but you're pretty good at it.
But I'm terrible at it.
I'm really, I'm terrible at it.
Well, I mean, it's like, I'm a terrible interviewer.
Right.
I'm a terrible interviewer.
I'm not a good interviewer.
I'm not even a good conversationalist,
but I make an effort and really these are not interviews
in my mind.
These are photographs with a little bit of backstory.
So I'm not, everyone's say, oh, you're a terrible interviewer.
It's okay, that's fine.
I'm not trying to be a great interviewer.
I'm trying to be a great photographer.
And these little backstories of the person's story
kind of helps.
And by doing 2,000 of them,
I'm eventually becoming a little bit better at it.
And sometimes when the dynamics between me
and the subject are right,
then it becomes more of a better conversation.
That happens sometimes.
Just you put two people in a room together,
they're gonna click or they're not.
And sometimes I click with people and they are.
And sometimes they're just,
we're just like, it's just not gonna ever.
But no, you get better at whatever you do a lot of.
Right.
Well, I feel like, again,
some of my most successful work is like,
it's storytelling.
It's kind of like a documentary,
but it's also kind of like a music video.
Like the music really gives you the vibe
and it really tells,
the music actually tells 50% of the story.
And this is the opposite of that.
But I can do as many as I want in a week.
Versus if I do work on one of those documentary projects,
it takes me, I can maybe do one in a month
if I bust my ass.
Yeah, for sure.
And that's what I'm good at.
I'm good at using a camera.
I'm good at, I'm good at, at the creative.
No, no, I'm good at,
like I'm good at taking a camera out at night
with natural light and creating
this really cool cinematic looking interview
with like a boat in the background and the moonlight
and, and putting dark music to it
and making it really resonate with somebody,
really like hit you when you watch it.
And this is the complete opposite of that.
But I'm doing it because I can do more of them.
And it's, I'm doing it,
what I've learned from doing this is it's made me,
even though I'm still terrible at it,
it's made me a better communicator.
It's made me like a,
it's improved so many aspects of my life
just by being able to sit here uninterrupted
and talk to somebody for two hours.
Like I find that I'm starting to become a little more,
like I'm very shy.
I'm very, I'm not like an outgoing,
I don't like being in front of the camera.
I don't like doing all that kind of stuff.
And to be like, to be doing these talks,
eventually you kind of just, sorry,
I'll ease it, I'm easing into it.
And I'm kind of like getting a little more comfortable with it
where maybe we can start having more conversations now.
Like, like the video I did,
I put up on Sunday with Amber.
I think I titled it A Prostitute's Life
with this girl named Amber who works Figaro.
She's a little bit,
she's not one of the young girls,
she's one of the older ones.
And I've had her on before and it's just a little more
of a conversation about that life
and how you got into it and the ups and downs of it all.
And it's more of a conversation
than a where you're from, what was your childhood like?
What drug do you use?
All that kind of stuff, which is very cold.
I mean, a lot of people will make these comments
because you sound like you're interrogating these people.
The fact that I'm off camera
and I'm just this like mysterious voice
that's coming from the background saying,
and what do you do for money?
You know, I sound like a cop.
I sound like Joe Friday.
I think a lot of that is because I'm off camera.
Because if you could see my body language,
I mean, these people wouldn't open up with me
the way they do if I was a cop or behaving like one.
And I'm not, but maybe my voice sounds very straight
and serious because we're talking about heavy, serious stuff.
So I can't laugh and joke and be friendly
and soft with them because we're talking
about really dark, heavy stuff.
So when you hear just a voice coming from somewhere,
from nowhere, like that's creepy.
So just the nature of the fact that I'm off camera
and I choose to be off camera.
I could do a talk show where it's two of us
sitting together talking on two chairs
like the DeKavit show or a talk show.
I choose not to do that because I would rather
not be on camera.
So it's a little bit creepy
that the voice comes from nowhere.
And it sounds like you're just interrogating these people,
but they're clearly not.
No one feels interrogated when they're doing this.
Yeah.
What is out of the over 2,000 interviews you've done?
Which one is your favorite?
Which one do you think about the most?
Which one do you always go back to?
Oh, I mean, my little personal favorite is one with SB,
which is a gang member.
And not because it's so deep or heavy,
it's just SB was his, he got stabbed in the heart recently
and we thought he died, but I think he's alive.
Haven't seen him since, it happened like four or five
months ago, but I haven't seen him since.
I heard he survived.
It's only like a minute and a half long.
It's the shortest video on my channel.
And it's so intense and so beautiful and so well done
about him talking about the streets.
And it's just like, fuck, if I could just do that
with every video, it was so beautifully done.
And he was a great storyteller.
He would tell these stories.
He probably still does, hopefully.
He tells stories in like where he's playing,
like him and his buddy are robbing a third guy.
And he tells a story, what he's saying,
and then he talks as if he's his buddy,
and then he talks you and he's telling this whole story
with three different characters,
but he's playing all three at the same time.
And he does it with such street slang,
and he's like, it's just so fascinating for me to listen to.
But he's talking about really violent, crazy stuff
that most of my audience probably doesn't like.
You know, a lot of people love the gang's videos
and other ones hate them.
And other people love the appellations
and they, other people find them boring.
And you know, how much drug addiction
can you actually watch?
You know, it's like something, but people love those.
You know, you put up a female,
an attractive female heroin addict,
that'll get a lot of views.
So it's all that, but the SB1 is, all the SBs are great.
The Jerry, you know, Jerry is the black gentleman
who was shot in the face with a shotgun.
Oh yeah, that one was.
He just passed away this last weekend.
Did he really?
He died, yeah.
Yeah.
How long did he have,
how long did he survive after he was shot
in the face with a shotgun?
Oh, it's been a long time.
I mean, it's been, I forget what year it was shot,
but it's been 15 years or so, maybe longer.
Do you know how he died?
Oh yeah, he had COPD, you know, the breathing.
He had problems breathing.
He even told me, I saw him a couple of days before he died.
I would see him every once or twice a week.
I'd just stop by and I was paying his bills and all that.
So I'd see him often.
And I saw him a couple of days before he passed away.
And he just said, yeah, it's just so hard for me
to even go down to the lobby of his apartment.
He lived on the third floor for him
just to go downstairs and the elevator, not the stairs,
elevator, it's just so hard for me to get around now
because my breathing is so bad.
So I kind of knew that this might be happening,
but I was surprised that it happened as soon as it did.
But he was such a lovely dude.
I was amazed at how well-spoken that guy was
and how friendly and charismatic he was
from a guy who was missing half of his head.
When we, and that, I think it's,
I did the original video that's very kind of just crude.
And I wasn't very proud of it.
So I did a part one and a part two with him.
And then I was a part three of showing his apartment.
But the part one and part two are the ones
I would rather people watch
because it covers everything in that original video
that's not so good and much more.
And then I think the part two of that series,
he talks about forgiveness.
Which to me, there's nothing more important to talk about.
And I asked him,
what would he say to the guy who shot him?
Because half his face and half his brain is missing.
That the whole right side of his head,
it looks like a candle if you dropped off a building.
His head is shaped like a half moon.
And he said, I love you, I forgive you.
And that's the only way you can be.
That's the only way that you can be.
And a lot of people don't understand that.
It's the only option because to be hateful hurts you.
To be hateful doesn't accomplish anything.
There seems to be so much hate in the world.
And you just look in the comments on YouTube,
it kind of seems like a third of them are hate filled
or motivated by hate.
Hate accomplishes nothing.
And when people don't understand about it,
you know, to put out some hate against somebody,
you're, that hate comes back to you
and it hurts you more than it hurts them.
They're just subconsciously.
People don't understand how subconsciously this is.
You suffer.
You suffer.
If you want to hurt yourself, go ahead and hate somebody.
But you're going to suffer for it.
And that's why I say I go to bed every night
with clear conscious, man, I don't hate anybody
or anything.
If I loan you $5,000 and you never pay me back,
I'm going to treat you exactly the way I did
before you ever offered me,
before you ever borrowed $5,000.
I'm going to treat you exactly the same
because I don't want to have that crap on me.
I'm not probably going to loan,
probably not going to loan you another five grand,
but I'm not going to carry that anger with me.
Cause if I carry that anger,
like that mother fucker didn't pay me back.
It's not hurting you.
It's hurting me.
And if I just let it go, as Jerry says in that talk,
you just let it go.
And you're lighter on your feet.
And it's easier for you to smile.
And it's easier for you to sleep.
And it's your heart rate is lower
and your brainwaves are more calm
and everything is better to just forgive and let go
with everything.
Like when I went through the divorce,
it'd be very easy for me to like blame this, blame that,
blame this person, blame, blame, blame, blame.
I took 100% of the responsibility
for everything that I went through.
100% of the responsibility for everything.
I don't care who else was involved.
I take the blame for everything.
And by doing that, I have total peace with everything.
I'm not angry at anybody.
Not angry at anybody.
You just forgive and you're just lighter on your feet.
You're happier.
You're at ease.
You're at peace.
And it's just a better way to live.
I don't know where I learned that.
I've known that since I was a little kid.
So that's not the most important lesson I've learned.
Cause I seem like I've known that my whole life.
Even when I was a little kid,
I knew that.
My parents don't have it.
My parents don't have that.
No one in my family embodies that.
But I live by it.
Always have.
It's not something I try to do.
It's just something I have always done.
Yeah, I feel like I know why you got divorced.
I feel like your work, probably,
you're a workaholic and anyone who had
a romantic relationship with you
probably was going crazy.
Like, what the fuck?
Pay attention to me.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
No, my ex-wife is the coolest woman that ever walked here.
She was great.
She is great.
That's great that you maintain a good relationship with her.
Oh yeah, no.
We just had Thanksgiving dinner together.
Oh, that's fucking awesome, man.
No, she's great.
She's great.
People meet her and they're like, what the fuck?
You're an idiot.
And I'm like, well, yeah.
But no, it's all cool.
She's got a nice boyfriend now and it's all great.
And I'm happy for her.
So, no, it was a time when my career was cranking
and we were raising little kids, or not little kids,
but you know, she was totally into raising kids
and I was totally into my work
and things just kind of like started to veer apart.
And Crade Equal came out and it flopped in my,
I mean, it's out of print now.
You can buy a copy on like eBay or on Amazon.
You can get a used copy for like a thousand bucks.
So it's hard to find.
What?
It's an expensive book now.
Did you create a specific amount of copies to sell?
I mean, the publisher did.
Okay.
And there's no more available to give to buy.
The title in Germany published it.
But it's out of print and now you can find an old copy
for a lot more money.
So I guess I shouldn't be ashamed of it.
I mean, the first gallery show that I had with it,
we sold like half a million dollars in prints
at that first show.
But that sounds like a lot,
but I spent much more than that to create that project.
You have to understand that I do things really heavy,
like really intense.
I don't just like kind of take some pictures.
I don't do that.
I don't kind of do something.
You mean you're not some corporate executive
trying to squeeze profits out of everything you do?
No, I do things with Gusto.
That's one thing I do.
When I do something, if I'm into it,
if I'm not into it, good luck.
I won't even get off the sofa.
I won't do shit.
What's the point if you're not in it?
Yeah, if I'm not into it, I just don't do shit.
But if I'm into it, look out.
Look out.
Just look out, that's all I can say.
That's the way everything should be, man.
That's where everything should be.
People need purpose in what you do.
When I am focused, there's no stopping me.
Between the combination of focus and concentration
and hope just makes anything possible.
It makes anything I want possible.
And there's very little that I don't accomplish
when I want it.
That's amazing.
It's great, it's great.
But you have to believe and you have to really
be so committed and it's like, I'm gonna make this happen.
I don't care how much, sometimes you almost,
I find I'll come up against something really negative.
Like, oh my, that's a really terrible setback.
That's never gonna happen.
And I'll see how, no, that setback
can actually make this happen.
Because the other person, let's say you're interacting
with a person, that person that just said no,
you allowed them to say no.
You've given them the space and that's really important.
That's an important thing with human interactions
is to give people the space or the respect to...
Like, it applies to every kind of interaction.
But let's say somebody does something really bad.
Are you married?
Yes.
You're married.
Let's say you do something that really just,
your wife didn't dig and you really fucked up in some way.
Who knows what?
You make up something in your head.
You fucked up.
She's pissed off.
She's disappointed in you.
You were a serious fuck up.
She could come back at you and go,
what the fuck's the matter?
She could give you all kinds of crap for it.
Or she could give you your space and your respect
and let you kind of hold your head up
when you come home from work.
And that'll allow you to kind of get your dignity back.
And you'll choose to do the right thing next time.
Most likely.
You'll choose to do the right thing next time.
Something like that comes up.
Instead of repeating that same fucked up behavior.
By giving you that, she's not gonna condemn you
when you came home from work.
She's not gonna say, you motherfucker, you fucked up again.
Or you would have, she's just gonna interact with you
just the way, I'm not saying being passive
and let you get it, getting away with it.
But giving you the room to retain your dignity.
Cause that's important.
That's super important that you still feel good
about yourself.
It's like raising little kids.
We talked about this earlier.
If you make the kid feel bad, they're gonna be bad.
If you make the kid feel good about themselves,
they're gonna do the right thing.
And the same thing with adults.
So if your wife makes you feel bad about something,
you're probably gonna continue to do it.
Eventually.
But if she allows you to forget about,
let's forget that happened.
Let's forgive and forget.
You know you fucked up.
You process that.
Man, I don't want that to happen again.
I feel bad about doing it.
But she didn't like make me feel guilty about it.
Not try to punish you.
Not try to punish you.
Just like, you know you disappointed her, right?
You know you fucked up.
And if you're a standup dude, you're gonna not do it again.
And you can get back to the relationship with your dignity.
You can be proud of who you are.
That's, I guess that's what I'm saying.
Whereas otherwise, then you're just gonna feel bad
about who you are.
And eventually that'll just,
the whole relationship will deteriorate.
It'll all just fall apart
because you feel like a piece of crap.
Because of what you did.
And that just makes you behave like a piece of crap.
And it's the same thing with children.
How did you learn this?
It's just common sense.
Everything boils down to common sense and science.
It's all science.
Yeah, but it has to be some sort of,
it has to be some sort of experience.
You're not born with that, right?
I'm born with the forgiveness thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was definitely born with that.
I'm born with the focus drive that I got.
Yeah, that's for sure.
So, I'm born with the...
I mean, it's just understanding.
Like, do you think that theory,
or that concept of not punishing someone
for a fuck up or a major mistake
and letting them sit back?
I'm not saying being passive.
I'm not saying being passive at all,
just so if anybody's listening to this,
oh, you're just letting, you're enabling or whatever.
Now, I'm not saying that.
What I'm doing is giving you room
to do the right thing next time.
Now, if you continue to fuck up
and do it again and again and again,
then you lock them up and whatever,
but all I'm saying is...
You're not saying cut off the relationship.
You're just saying...
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm just saying, like,
if everything's been fine,
all of a sudden you did something really fucked up.
Yep.
Rather than just saying,
dude, you really fucked up and you're an asshole
and you, you know, all that
and making you feel really shameful and really...
Because chances are you already know that.
You already know that.
Everybody knows when they fuck up.
You don't need to be reminded.
The fact that you're being reminded
just makes you feel worse.
But if she just interacts with you just as before,
just as she did before this happened,
it gives you room to...
It gives you the space,
the dignity to walk into the room again
with your head held high
and give her a kiss on the forehead or cheek
and just be cool and do the right thing next time.
And people don't seem to understand that.
They would rather just hate and condemn
and make you feel bad
and that just takes things down.
And nobody wants that.
She doesn't want it and you don't want it.
It hurts her, it hurts you.
But if she did this, it helps her and it helps you.
I'm not saying be passive though.
I'm not saying just let people...
I get what you're saying.
I totally understand.
If you had one message for the world
after everything you've learned from your life,
your work, all the people you've interacted with,
what would your message, what's your legacy?
Oh, I would say forgiveness and understanding.
Forgiveness is such a huge one.
Like I forgive really well.
When I say forgive, it's just like what Jerry said
in that talk, totally forget.
Never happened.
Like if you borrowed that 5,000 from me
and you never paid me back,
I would continue to interact with you
as if nothing ever happened.
Because it didn't in my head.
And hopefully, you get past a two
and one day maybe you've paid me back
and one day maybe you don't.
I'm probably not gonna loan you any more money.
But that forgiveness,
kind of like what we just talked about with your wife.
It allows everyone to heal.
And that's the real thing that we want to happen.
That's like the thing with my channel.
I want us all to be healed and happy
and at peace and loving ourselves.
Really, it's all about loving yourself.
I mean, it's really that lack of unconditional love
that happened in childhood
that causes all these problems you see on my channel.
And in life, unconditional love is the answer.
If the reason I mentioned the bluestar clothing earlier,
I never finished that.
So if bluestar clothing ever wanted their name back,
I would change the name of my channel
to unconditional love.
Really?
Because that's really what it is.
That's what all my videos are all about.
The fact that you didn't get that when you were a kid
and now you're doing all this screwed up behavior
because you were never loved unconditionally.
And love is not unconditional love.
It's like a disguise that looks like love
and your mom is being nice to you
but then she's also being manipulative.
And she's nice to you but then she's not.
And then she's nice to you
but there's all these games that are being played
and unconditional love is just like,
it's just, it's just, it's unconditional.
And that heals everything, heals everything.
Kids grow up beautifully with that.
You know, when you abuse a kid,
when you sexually molest them,
when you do all these terrible things,
when you talk down to them, they end up broken.
And if you just love them and accept them
and give them patience and listen to them
and talk to them as if they're intelligent,
they grow up to be great people.
So something along the lines of all that
is what we all need.
That's super powerful, man.
Thank you again for being here.
Cool.
I appreciate this so much.
And you're very good at what you do.
Such a powerful message.
You shouldn't think you don't.
Well, I appreciate it.
You're very good.
I appreciate you're very kind.
Tell the people listening where they can follow you,
where they can find your work
and how they can support what you're doing.
Oh, I have a YouTube channel called Soft White Underbelly.
And if you want to support it,
I put up this GoFundMe thing that people can support.
Now, I only want it for people that want to do it.
So it's not like you're supposed to support.
But it's like, you know,
you know, I struggle to make money with this.
I have a Patreon channel too.
And Patreon has some, some video,
I'm trying to make more videos on there that are exclusive.
I might have more coming,
but so far there's only like 40 or so videos
that are exclusive to the Patreon channel.
But that's another way to support what I'm doing.
It's $10 a month.
And I think that's about it.
But I just, I'm grateful that people watch it
because it seems like maybe some people will start to figure
out that hate won't accomplish anything.
Good.
That's what I'd love to do.
That's one thing I'd love to change.
Cause, cause man, it just makes me so sad
when you see all these, this hate.
No matter how bad somebody has been,
it's like, to hate them just,
it's like, it's like, it's like these commenters think
that if I leave a hateful comment,
the target of that hate will stop doing
what they're going to do.
They're not.
No.
They're going to dig their heels in deeper.
So you've, you, you're contributing to the problem.
Right.
You're, you're making the problem worse.
You, you, you think you're disapproving
and you're going to, you're going to stop it somehow.
But what you're actually doing is putting fertilizer on it.
The way to do, the way to handle this is
you listen to these talks,
you comprehend what they're saying.
You, you listen to how these things came about,
what the childhood was like, what the environment was like,
how they grew up and like, maybe we could
create a more educated generation next time.
Maybe we could create a little more awareness
or a little more open-mindedness or maybe
a little less racism or a little more,
whatever this, that or the other.
So that the next generation is a little more evolved
cause a lot of the, a lot of the,
who the hell would hit a kid?
Who the hell would sexually molest a kid?
Who the hell would do that?
I can't even imagine that shit.
No.
But it happens, it's happening right now
as we're talking somewhere.
And it's like, it's horrible.
We definitely need to figure out a way to make people
in our country better and, and, and make less,
less losers for lack of a better term.
That's it. That's, that's really it.
That's really it.
I mean, that's, that's what I'm hoping maybe this channel
kind of does. It's like, oh wow, we're really screwing up.
We're really dropping the ball.
It's not about homelessness or drug addiction or whatever.
It's, it's about loving our children.
Super powerful, man.
Thank you so much for your time, Mark.
Thank you.
