It's exactly like do best do do better if you say that they're bad do better than them
I don't think they can because they sell like
50 million copies
They're big
On this episode of does the new one listen to we tried to get inside the minds of people who listen to nickle
back was there something more beneath the surface
What were their guiding principles
Last time we investigated the psyche of lil uzi vert phonetics
If you were to take a bath with lil uzi, what liquid would you bathe in?
Coating wing
Straight up wing diet coke
This is florida at its finest right here nickleback concert right in the middle of the state
Cold beer ugly women. I love you
What brought you here today?
uh
Some friends are here
Can't see nickleback
Do it up. What do you think it means to be a nickleback fan?
I think it means like that you like you really like
You really know what like rocking out is to think back to them times when you're in middle school
And you were hitting the half pipe or something you know, and you're just like
Fucking po d comes on and nicklebacks right after and you're like, ah, they're not that bad
I just like how they um this rock out like rock star has a great song
Is do what do what they do so titty bar songs. It really depends on this
There's some songs that I better late make me cry
The average nickleback fan is blank
Hot the average nickleback fan is blank sexy giant penis
I think average nickleback fans that are like openly nickleback fans
Are like cool. They don't care what other people think for somebody who's not a fan with your perspective on nickleback
We thought we told them lose
No, no the number two
Rock band in america behind the Beatles the average nickleback fan is blank
Cool shit
I heard that they're big in brazil actually
Ole what kind of music do you dislike?
I would generally say gangster rap
Be ghosts is garbage
That's new mumble rap bullshit. It's kind of retarded
I hate that. I hate that. I hate the screamo
Heavy rock screamo metal. What would you say to the nickleback haters? Are you kidding me?
Um, they can kiss my white lily all american ass
I got a lot of people hate on them, but I believe like they're they're telling the truth
Like they know what they're saying you need to be really brave because everyone hates nickleback apparently
I've been uh out here interviewing people and half the people ask whether they like nickleback and not say no
Why do you think that is? Because they're closet lovers. Hey, you guys fancy nickleback?
Uh, we're doing a documentary on nickleback. We're asking just some fans questions
They love it deep down
On the outside, they don't want to seem like mainstream
You know a lot of people that run their mouth in that form they use their words very recklessly and it's just it's
It is what it is, you know, I mean I'd be contradicting myself if I bash them back
But everyone's just a fan of music one thing that we all have in common is that we love music
man, that's one thing to think about it all human beings love music and uh
Being a fan of nickleback is like being a fan of anything else. You hear it makes you feel good
And and that's all that matters do best do do better if you say that they're bad do better than them
I don't think they can because they sell like
50 millions copies
They're they're big
But everybody still loves her you can't become popular without haters that's for sure
Bushlight nickleback biceps
