We're trying to figure out who the fuck listens to the Cannibal Corpse, and I think we found one here.
Alcohol, cocaine, acid's fun, you know, it has to be, you have to be in the mood for acid.
I COULD MOVE!
This week, on Concrete, we try to figure out if anyone listens to Cannibal Corpse, and if so, what are those people like?
Last time, we studied some people who listened to Skrillex.
I hate Skrillex, but I'm going to their bitches.
Cannibal Corpse is a death metal band, started in the 80s, who gained a cult-like following soon after their first album release.
The band's lyrics are highly controversial, consisting of extreme rape, violence, and horror.
And with song titles like I Come Blood, Stripped, Rape, and Strangled, and post-mortal ejaculation, we expected nothing less than a violent, Satan-worshipping shit show.
GOOGLE CORPSE!
It doesn't make you feel better even if you're in a bad mood and you put Cannibal Corpse in.
That's why I listen to Cannibal Corpse because it takes all the anger and aggression out.
They're a good thing for society, correct?
Exactly, I think, yes, they are definitely there for society.
You going to be going in the pit tonight?
Nah, I've retired from that, but what I do is I stand on the edge and if they bump me, you give them one, huh?
Oh yeah, I knocked one kid over, I felt so bad.
Do you see their lyrics as poetic?
I do, I do, very much so.
My lubrication, her decomposition, spending my life molesting dead children.
That's the beautiful thing about music, is each person interprets it differently, so...
The more we started to understand about these people, they started to seem just normal.
As if you stripped away all the pleather and metal hair, you'd be left with just a bunch of blue-collar neighborhood folks
who like to get dressed up once a year when a good metal band comes to town.
I just feel the vibes all through my body whenever I hear that kind of music, you know what I'm saying?
It's a really great medium of music, I think.
It's very underrated, I think, still, even to this day.
The tone of death metal, so...
Death metal's been a lot for me.
It just really helps me stress a lot.
My stuff a lot better.
When I listen to the music, it relaxes me, because all the inner anger that I have inside of me, it goes out to the music
so then I feel relaxed, I feel at peace.
Really, it's just a great releaser of stress.
Just getting stress out, basically.
A positive way to let out your aggression.
It's just an escape, you know?
I mean, this world is...
It can be a real Debbie Downer, you know?
It can tear you down, so...
Sometimes negativity can actually bring positivity, you know?
Music plays
I got some weeds and combos.
A fucking half of a monster Slim Jim.
And I got some, like, the best combos ever.
They're actually seven layer dip.
I put a bandaid on it to keep them closed.
Fucking bomb.
Are they laced with acid?
Do you want them to be it?
Well, no, I have wax now.
You don't have to show it all.
No, I'm trying to find it.
What are you trying to find?
My fucking weed.
Let me get a hit of that shit.
Yeah, let me get a hit.
You got that thing working?
I like that.
Have you ever had sex with cannibal corpse before?
Yeah.
Who has it?
That's what I was wondering.
