If you don't like Cradle of Filth and you can't admire their music,
yeah, you just might as well fucking roll in that gutter right there and fucking die.
This week on Concrete, we hung out with some people who like Cradle of Filth.
What do they stand for?
What were they like as people?
Last time, we ridiculed the fans of Cannibal Corpse.
Alcohol, cocaine, acids fun, you know, you have to be in the mood for acid.
Cradle of Filth, formed in 1991, has become one of the most iconic and mainstream metal bands in the world,
combining elements of black metal with theatrical goth rock.
Their vocalist, Danny Filth, aka Lord Filth, spews opera-like vocals over a fuselot of throttling death metal guitars.
And despite his secret passion for reggae, the subject matter in his songs consists mostly of dark romance and horror.
You know, gothic.
I was intrigued by this band. What could their fans be like?
And what were they hiding behind all that bondage, leather and face paint?
I mean, it's like a combination of pain and love.
I'm from Japan. I came here because of metal. I love metal.
Hi.
Oh yeah!
You know, listening to their music for a long time, understanding where they come from,
and understanding their music and who they are as musicians and artists.
Nobody says metal is dead, rock is dead, no it isn't.
We embrace, like, two lovers at death, a moment to the trapping of breath.
It's pretty hot.
Evil and destruction and females and corruption of demons.
What do you have to say to the people that don't like Cradle of Filth?
You got problems.
Because this is fucking kickass!
Cradle of Filth or Cannibal Corpse?
That's a toss-up. That's a double-headed coin right there, bro.
We embrace, like, two lovers at death as restriction is bled from the veins of my neck.
Oh wow, that turns me on.
What face do you make when you listen to Cradle of Filth and can you give us a quick example?
What was your life like before Cradle of Filth?
Fucking lonely, you know.
These notes suck.
So can you describe to me what a Cradle of Filth hater looks like?
A penis.
Like, that.
They can suck a big cock.
If you don't like Cradle of Filth and can't admire their music,
yeah, you just might as well fucking roll in that gutter right there and fucking die.
I kind of listen to them when I'm really angry.
Especially when it's someone who angered me.
What does it mean to be a Cradle of Filth fan?
Uh, it means...
It means not wearing loafers.
There's a lot of people out there that are hating, but they haven't heard the real shit.
Because there are a bunch of bandwagoners,
and they haven't probably heard any of their shit since, like, 99,
and they can suck my fucking dildo.
And there's one under my bridge as well.
They create this body.
You see that, bitches?
I stayed at their show last night until three o'clock in the morning, and I got to see him.
So, that's what a Die Hard fan is about.
You'll stay and you'll believe, and you'll be loyal no matter what the fucking genre.
You know, I had no real outlet other than physical violence,
but, you know, with Cradle of Filth and Slipknot, that's a real anti-violence.
Oh, fucking.
Put you, you buy your dick.
Because, guess what? I'm fucking lesbian.
You are?
Fuck yeah!
You lesbian?
Yeah.
I'm a super lesbian.
You don't need to bother,
and I don't need to be.
I'll keep slipping farther,
but once I hold on,
I won't let go till it blinks.
You thought it was gonna be what?
Are you fucking writing on this man's shoe while I'm doing an interview, bro?
Mm-hmm.
She just does crazy shit.
Y'all on!
You
