Hi, my name is Edwin and I'm here with Concrete and we're about to go to a 21 Savage concert.
And we're going to find out what 21 Savage fans are like.
Music
What does it mean to be a 21 Savage fan?
Gotta be bought that life, you gotta like that murder music.
What is murder music?
Man, it's why you talking about killing niggas, some street shit.
What kind of face do you make when you listen to 21 Savage?
What song you talking about?
Cause you got some shit that'd be hype.
I'm looking to fucking go kick a door.
You talking about some shit that'd just be like red ops, some shit like that?
Fucking roll me a backwood, pull me up and let me fucking kick it.
What does it mean to be a 21 Savage fan?
It means you like ox featuring Future and Savage Mode off his new album is what it means.
Cause those are bangers.
What face do you make when you listen to 21 Savage?
Like I'm busting a nut.
Music
What do you have to say to the 21 Savage haters?
I'll say I'll slaughter your fucking daughters.
21 bro, that's what it is.
If you hate 21, fuck you.
I'll slaughter your bitch bro.
I don't really know what I'd say. I mean I just just fuck them.
Pretty much.
If you hate 21 Savage, nigga, who the fuck are you?
Real rap.
Real rap blood.
What does it mean to be a 21 Savage fan?
If 21 Savage was right here, right now, what would you say to him?
What kind of lean you want?
Among this list of top savages, where would you rate him?
Pablo at five?
Oh man.
Why y'all got Pablo at five though?
Pablo should be number one.
Pablo one, Pablo one.
Let's say Pablo's one.
Pablo one.
I got Gucci at two.
Scarface three.
He four.
He four.
No, he five, Kodak four.
I don't know, I think Pablo should be like up here somewhere between Gucci and Scarface.
And Al Capone should be up there too, for sure.
Napoleon can go down to like six and then we move all them down and put like 21 at like four.
I'll do four.
I think Napoleon's a bitch.
So what kind of face do you make when you listen to 21 Savage?
The litters fuck face, where you're like SCOOT.
Because that's a banger.
Like Savage mode and acts by future.
Futures verse with about 55 seconds left and acts.
Futureing future is a fucking banger, so that's what I go hard to.
I don't, I don't know.
Like it just kind of gets lit in the moment.
21 Savage or Soldier Boy?
21 Savage, what the fuck?
Can you draw me a quick picture that represents how 21 Savage makes you feel?
So this is a door.
Excuse me, this is a foot.
And this is a door.
This is some cash.
And this is the product that you want.
And it makes me sometimes want to do that.
That's 21 Savage shooting at the ops.
Would you describe his lyrics as poetry?
Yeah, in like certain forms.
Like anything can be poetry to anybody really.
Poetry?
Yeah, nigga poetry.
For real.
Honestly, like if you're a nigga, like you know where he coming from.
If you ain't a nigga and you still know where he coming from, then props to y'all.
That's nigga poetry.
21 Savage or Soldier Boy?
21 Savage, what the fuck?
What the hell now?
Soldier Boy trashed in the morning.
I ain't hating on Soldier Boy and no shit like that, but he trashed, bro.
I fucks with Soldier, so damn.
And niggas need to stop hating on Soldier because he's a legend.
But if I had to choose, I'd say 21, but just don't hate on Soldier because he hard and he's a legend.
What does the cross on 21 Savage's head mean?
It's not a cross, it's a dart.
But I guess it means that he's killed a couple niggas, I don't know.
He's the song bird of our generation.
Can you give me an example of the face you make when you listen to his music?
His music really puts me in a spot where it's like, I feel elevated.
I'm elevated by his lyrics, he is the lyricist.
What does 21 Savage mean to you?
I have no idea.
Other than maybe Brett Savage's old high school football number, I don't know.
What kind of face do you make when you listen to 21 Savage?
Bro, we're getting an interview right now, bro.
He's speak for the streets, he's speak for people that's in their struggle.
He's speak for what's going on right now for their generation.
Growing up is real, in the streets, everything, you know?
And if you're a rapper that really could back up what you talk about, that make you credibility up hell, you know?
21 Savage is pretty good. That's why I'm at the concert.
Well, there you have it, folks.
We definitely found out what 21 Savage fans are like.
If you enjoyed this video, please leave it a thumbs up, subscribe if you're new,
and also make sure to leave a comment below on who you want us to interview next.
Alright, bye.
Thanks for watching.
