What is your favorite gore lyric and can you explain it to me?
Gucci gang, Gucci gang.
Hi, my name is Brandon Bowen and I'm here with Concrete Interviewing Goire fans.
What does gore's music mean to you?
Chaos.
Goire is the epitome of entertainment.
I think they're much more of the metal version of the same concept.
Somebody such as Marilyn Manson was trying to portray.
You're crazy and deranged and would like to have sex with farm animals and sheep and pigs and horses.
What emotional connection do you have to gore's music?
The latex monster cocks.
You can see the men.
Goire or a little pump.
Why would that be even in a comparison?
Goire or a little pump.
It's a very upbeat kind of metal. Not angry, just fun, good energy.
If you had to explain gore to someone who's never listened to gore before, how would you do it?
I would say giant latex space barbarians and ridiculous spectacle.
Gucci gang, Gucci gang, Gucci gang, Gucci gang, Gucci gang.
No, I don't know what that means, I don't know.
I'm not a gore fan.
You're not a gore fan? Why are you here?
Ghoul.
Ghoul.
Are they any good?
Yeah.
I'm bubacus maximus.
You called me that in middle school.
Can you illustrate for me how gore makes you feel and walk us through it?
Alright, well so like, you know, excess for eyes because you know, you're kind of dead inside sometimes.
I think there's a definite excitement to gore that is somewhat otherworldly to say the least.
I do like a little pig nose because it's easy to draw.
But like a big smile.
Oh, it's a mushroom.
Yeah, yeah.
Or a tree with some hills.
What do you feel about gore?
Well, if they're demons, hell, everybody got demons, you know what I'm saying?
So if they don't stay singing, let the motherfucker sing.
What face do you make while listening to gore?
The same face that I always make.
Yeah, that's it.
Pretty much that.
Yeah.
Is that it?
She's still going.
Alright, next question.
What kind of emotional connection do you have with gore?
Sexually. This guy knows what I'm talking about.
Pull my finger!
What is your favorite gore lyric?
Fucking an animal.
We'll go back old gore. Older gore.
That's the lyric, just fucking an animal.
Sure, we'll also end with a song too.
What about that one gore song where they go,
That's a fan favorite as well, yes.
So far, my favorite gore lyric has to be,
How do you feel about that?
Down with the suit?
Yeah, that's not gore.
Now Lil Pump recently spoke at the United Nations Council on North Korea
and he said that he completely disagrees with our nuclear program.
How do you feel about that?
I disagree too because nuclear bombs and nuclear anything
is a threat and a harm to all humans.
Yeah, but they said Lil Pump's stance was a little misguided on that.
How do you feel about his stance?
I don't feel as though he's misguided because of him affecting
our culture that's growing in this world.
And at the same time, if you go back to when they did Hiroshima
and they dropped a nuclear bomb over there,
you look back at it right now today,
Hiroshima is still fucked up.
Very true.
There are people that are growing with limbs missing,
deformities of all sorts.
So nuclear war, nuclear bombs,
I'm against that 150% plus song.
Now do you think if Lil Pump works hard enough
he can really bring peace to the entire world?
Only a person can try.
