Explain that to me.
I would rather be dead than at that concert.
Hey guys, my name is Edwin, and tonight we are here to find out who listens.
Hey, what are you guys doing?
I'm playing Pokemon Go.
Yeah.
What does it mean to be a Tool fan?
Uh...
Tool's life, man.
Like, have you ever heard of the band?
Have you ever listened to him?
Okay, well some of his music is real life.
I go over to my one buddy's house and smoke weed with him, and all of a sudden I be like,
is there anything we can listen to on our tool?
I got a perfect circle CD back here.
I got the same coffee as that.
What would you call Tool fans geniuses?
They definitely have a more different understanding of life.
I mean, yeah.
What?
You're riding the poofy?
Can you draw me a picture that represents how Tool makes you feel?
My third eye.
My third eye is open, and it makes me happy.
The shoulder, and hands.
The shoulder, other hand.
The head, split into seven, four, five, six, seven different directions, and 1,000 arms.
It mostly represents the deity Quan Yin, described as giving up her deity ship to help all sentient beings attain enlightenment.
Can you draw me a picture that represents how Tool makes you feel?
Here you go.
See, it's limp.
It's limp.
I'm not very excited.
Would you call Tool fans geniuses?
No.
What would you call them?
Stoners.
How do you know someone's a Tool fan when you see them?
Janko Genes.
Alright, so who do you think would win in a fight? ICP fans or Tool fans?
ICP fans.
Yeah, ICP.
I definitely ICP'd.
How high are you?
Like 1 to 10.
Like a 9 or 10, probably.
Yeah.
How does Tool make you feel?
I like Tool.
I've liked him for years.
Something raw, something that hits you at the core, you know, something that you can relate to.
How would you describe them to me in adjectives?
I honestly don't know them.
Love Tool.
Tool's great.
I agree.
How would you describe them in adjectives?
I don't know.
Musically shallow.
Fat, neck-bearded, super abysmal.
I don't know, when it hits your eardrums, it just makes you feel some type of way that everybody has a different level of what they think is awesome, you know?
Like if it strikes your eardrums in a particular type of way, then maybe you'll think that's awesome.
But I personally do like Tool.
Dumb, not smart, waste of space.
Tool fanatics are insufferable retards.
What do you think about that statement?
I'm not sure.
Is that actually an insult or are you trying to be cool and say that?
No, actually the lead singer was quoted saying that.
Of Tool Band?
Yeah, he does do some insulting things that I've seen online.
Maybe that comes when you get a little too arrogant because your followers won't leave no matter what.
How do you know someone's a Tool fan when you see them?
They're coming out of a hot topic.
What does it mean to be a Tool fan?
I don't know.
I'm just a kid.
I don't know what that means.
Based on their music, like at first, wide-eyed with a little bit of a gait.
And then eventually, like that.
I would rather be dead than at that concert.
I heard them, they didn't sound fantastic.
This is a unicorn, which are very rare and a lot of people are big fans of them.
And it's really happy, except it's not.
It's actually really sad.
And it's screaming because somebody put on that song, you know, the one where it's like
danit, danit, danit, danit, danit, danit, danit, nananananananana.
Flush it all down or whatever.
And this is Happy Unicorn because its innards have been torn out by a fat Tool fan who hates life.
And that's his hem right here.
He's not drawn to scale, by the way.
And this is a knife.
So I just met a whole bunch of Tool fans in and outside of the concert.
And that's about it for tonight.
Thank you for watching.
