The violence is like the cool part like raping and shit like it's shitty, but it's like good to listen to
This week on concrete we studied up on what fans of Tyler the creator are like
Last time we learned about people who like cannibal corpse
Tyler the creator is a young hip-hop star from Los Angeles
Who's mostly known for rapping about dark shit like raping and killing and sucking some girl in her uterus
His music may have launched him into the mainstream
But Tyler the creator is much more than just a rapper the 24-year-old also runs two successful clothing lines
The stars in the loiter squad on adult swim and is the ringleader of the hip-hop collective odd future
We're here at beautiful Janice landing the best music venue in the whole goddamn state of Florida
And where we're just trying to figure out who the fuck listens to Tyler the creator and I think I found one over here
Are you ready?
I
Don't actually know where he got the doughnuts from I think that it was just like the whole odd future
It's just a bunch of kids who are vibing and stuff and they were just like this is weird. This is
It looks stupid. Let's put it out
I don't know. He's really depressed and stuff. I like that and like violent. I like that
They're figuring out ways to deal with the violence and depression
No, the violence is like the cool part like raping and shit like it's shitty, but it's like good to listen to
I'm not gonna buy you. All right. He makes he makes good stuff. He's just a cool guy, you know
Oh shit, you get a bottom on that motherfucker
I think Tyler's an inspiration for young dudes, you know, it's never too early to do what you want to love, you know
He was what 17 when bastard came out, right? Yeah, and he just he did it
He did what he wanted to do and I mean, I'm 16 and I want to be a director and because of him
I'm like, I'm it's never too early, you know
To be honest the crowd which consisted of mostly 16 year olds who liked smoking weed and wearing high socks
Wasn't that crazy or exciting? However, they all did have one thing in common besides being white, of course
Which was that I don't give a fuck. I do what I want attitude
Which we all had at one point or another
Wait, let's see doughnuts the doughnuts all over the place. What's it?
That's just something he came up with. I don't really know. I think he's the embodiment of you
If he just doesn't care. He does what he wants. You think he's hot
Little bit. It's just it's it's the little kid sunglasses that he always wears. You like little kids. Yeah. Yeah. Oh
Well, I
Mean one day I'm gonna fuck Tyler the creators
When I was in eighth grade, I remember in science class
We used to go on our computers listening music and that was all I listened to and that was the shit
Did you make some nice things in science class? Hell, yeah
I was high every day that I want the inspiration to daily life to you
I'll I would have to say like kill people burn shit fuck school
That's kind of like my daily mantra any kind of emotional connection to what he does that inspires you in life there
Yeah, I'm really sad because he's like a young person aspiring to be something better right now
And that's what I feel like I am doing too trying to find my buddies, but I actually work fucking security right here
Yeah, yeah, and I don't know where my friends are motherfuckers
We got to say to your friends that aren't here
Fuck all y'all wolf gang every fucking day
You
