I've always hated young lean. I've hated young lean, but I love fucking the music the music young lean's a fucking dick the green hair
Fuck you
I
Test test one two test test one two young lean money money cash money Gucci main little be
I'm here to get really fucking just fucked up. Just destroyed get lit as fuck right now listening to young lean
You see out in the Nickelodeon ski trip shit on what's young lean mean to you young lean vaporwave aesthetic
It's all about the depression. It's all about like that sadness within and trying to overcome it really
Here's one of his lyrics. Tell me like in your opinion what you think of it
Nike Nike on my shirt bubbles bubbles blowing bubbles. It's all of that aesthetic in vaporwave
If you had to choose like five words to describe young lean more a mystery influential
Would you say young lean's pretty tumbler? Yeah, dude, dude like he has like all his I don't know
That's called we're like where it has like all that like cool like neon design shit
But yeah, he like got everyone into that. I'm tacky shit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like he's all over tumbler for sure
You want me a picture which represents how young me lean makes you feel
I don't know some graffiti. Yeah, that's dope
Dope graffiti some double cups. Yeah
This is pretty sad some double cups
In a bathing in case what do you think a typical young lean fan is um a white hipster. What does young lean mean to you?
Chill ass tunes. What do you do when you go to a young lean show?
Space vomit like there's like a trash can but you're missing the bin so you're throwing up out
He came from my nuts. He's my seed. Do you think that's more behind his lyrics than what they say?
Nah, man, just get fucked up and love the aesthetics dude
Do you think young lean's hot? Oh my god, do I think young gloon's hot? Look at he's my background
You could take young lean on a date. What would you do with him?
Um, I don't know maybe for sushi. Can you give me a facial expression that describes your relation with young lean and what he means to you?
My name's shorty prime
Follow me on Twitter. I'm here because I'm fucking selling a lot of drugs dude. I never went into young lean
Hustle up man. Get your paper up
What was this? Was this a young lean toe? Oh, no, it's a scorpion because I'm a scorpio
It's influential people in this world. Where on the list do you think he comes? You just point?
Influential in what sense
In any sense music in your life anything. Oh shit
Pretty high up there at least above God in my books at least above God young lean or Gucci man
Yo, I honestly don't know
Gucci man, imagine. I don't know who young lean is who's young. Oh, he's a Swedish rapper
Okay, now say it like more romanticized like, you know really sell it to me
Young lean is the greatest sweetest rapper alive. I can now like directly down the lens like it's an infomercial
sell it to them
Young lean is the greatest Swedish rapper alive
Whereabouts on that chart you think young lean comes?
He definitely comes between Michael Jackson and Thomas Edison. I definitely say right right around here
Maybe maybe here. Maybe fuck young lean haters anybody say some shit. They could come to me
I'll shoot them in their dicks
45 times
This is this is pretty much young lean in the making. What do you think I should have to this give me some advice look at that
Look at it. Okay. You need the bucket hat
Well, it's happened to young lean in prison. I don't think it's gonna
They think he's a little pretty bitch they're gonna call him a young slopping Joe young sloppy top eat his booty hole like upside down
That's very much watching that guys that was young lean show and that was young leans fan
Can you cut it in or shows doing one take why don't you leave a comment below on who we should interview next and catch us soon
Make sure you subscribe and push that like button
I
I
