So we're just here trying to figure out who listens to Kodak Black.
I do. I do. I do, too.
In the club, bopping with my niggas. Kodak bopping.
Fuck, soldier boy.
This week on Concrete, we examine the people who listen to Kodak Black.
What do they look like?
What do they believe in?
Last time, we hung out with some fans of Tyler the Creator.
The violence is, like, the cool part, like, raping and shit.
Like, it's shitty, but it's, like, good to listen to.
Kodak Black is a South Florida rapper who recently turned 18.
The young gun first caught attention after being released from prison
and dropping his hit No Flockin' in 2014.
After getting Instagram shoutouts from Drake
and Soldier Boy threatening to beat him up on Twitter,
I think you mad because I ain't pull up to the studio
and make a song with your weak ass.
Kodak shows no signs of slowing down, and neither do his fans.
What does Kodak Black mean to you guys?
He's just an underground rapper starting off, like, the dude's real, he spits.
There's a mixtape drop yesterday, the institution.
What kind of face do you make while listening to Kodak Black music?
I just, like, close my eyes and start headbanging and bumping.
Who's better, Kodak Black or Soldier Boy?
Damn. Soldier Boy's been around. Like, you can't throw that on me.
Clearly I'm a pick soldier, but Kodak's coming up.
What does it mean to be a Kodak Black fan?
It means to represent who you are and get money.
And any trap. Trap is just getting money. It's not like a drug place.
It's just getting money.
What do you think about him? What have you heard so far?
I haven't heard anything really.
So tonight is going to be your first experience of Kodak Black.
Right.
Have you ever seen him in concert?
No, I've never even been to a concert.
This is your first concert?
Well, I saw Gucci, man, in the underground, boy.
What are you expecting tonight?
Bitches.
You can't go to Epic without him.
No, no, motherfucking shorts, man.
They want to hunt it.
They won't let you.
My shoes, my shoes cause more, way more than a hundred.
My Gucci shirt cause way more than a hundred.
I fuck with that Project Baby shit and I'm gonna, guess what?
I'm gonna go home and jam and I'm gonna go trap to it.
What do you have to say to the Kodak Black haters?
Fuck them.
If they hand in, they broke.
Fuck them. Fuck Soldier Boy.
Fuck them.
Don't even ask about that pussy.
Yeah, I'm gonna see how he sound.
If he don't sound right, I'm gonna walk out that motherfucker.
What kind of face do you make while listening to Kodak Black?
We count up, man. Yeah, hell yeah.
We support Kodak, man. You feel me?
You count up, man.
My boy stay flicking out blue hunters.
You know what I mean?
This is what we do, man.
Soldier Boy or Kodak Black?
Fuck Soldier Boy.
Kodak Black or Soldier Boy?
Kodak!
Soldier Boy, oh.
And you know that.
See, man, because he came out with a hit in years.
He was a one-hit wonder.
Kodak.
But I've been waiting for my mic to work.
You could do or say one thing to Kodak Black. What would it be?
Not really my type, but I focus show music.
What do you think, though?
I don't know what I got.
Interviews haven't gone very well, and I'm pretty sure it's because I'm white.
So we're gonna transition over a little bit to a darker skinned interviewer.
If you could say one thing to Kodak Black, what would it be?
I like your song and I like your gold teeth.
What does it mean to be a Kodak Black fan?
To turn up with good music.
You got some good turn up music, bro.
It's good for you.
If you had a pick between Soldier Boy and Kodak Black, who would it be?
Kodak Black.
What made you accept the interview with him and not me?
I'm more drunk now.
Kodak Black is a nigga that came from the swans and made it out.
You can't really be a Kodak Black fan if you ain't from the hood, if you ain't from the streets.
If you really are, then you understand bars.
He just got bars, you know what I mean?
What do you think about his beef with Soldier Boy?
Soldier's a pussy who got no bars, man.
I got more bars than him and I didn't even sign it.
What does it mean to be a Kodak Black fan?
It means that you skirt.
I don't know much about him other than he hates you.
What face do you guys make when you listen to Kodak Black?
It's not just this jamming.
Just jamming. Make a face.
Fuck told you boy.
These fans weren't here to be different or stand out from the crowd.
I think the majority of them felt like they could relate to Kodak because he came from the streets.
No matter how you look at it, hustle and ambition flows through Kodak's veins.
And these people were here to support someone just like them.
The streets fucking with Kodak Black. That little nigga hot right now.
I salute him. He hot right now. They fucking with that boy.
Being this bitch, y'all fuck my little nigga Kodak.
I'm from Browke County too.
I live down here in town but all day I'm around my nigga.
Kodak be sly. Nigga be on some real street shit.
He just speaking his lifestyle.
We all been through a struggle.
If you come from that shit he talking about, you got some fuck with him because you're late to everything he's saying.
That man speaking everything that go on in that life.
If you're near me, you gonna fuck when you come from it.
What do you guys think about the beef he has with Soldier Boy?
Fuck Soldier Boy, man. I'm on some G shit, man.
Don't try to look down on a young nigga trying to get where you at, my nigga.
They on two different levels, man.
Soldier Boy on some like, you know, beat-bop type shit, man.
Kodak on some street shit.
The streets fucking with Kodak.
Subscribe to Concrete.
Like the video.
And if you have any suggestions on the topic for the next video, comment that down below as well.
