He was so cool! I wish I could have gone to his concert and knocked us out for underage drinking!
I'm Jack from the Juke Squad and we are here to find out who listens to Little Uzi Vert.
What's up? So let's hear the question first. Let's hear the question first.
What does Little Uzi Vert mean to you guys?
I don't know dude, he's just fucking live energy, you know, wild.
Yeah, like hype.
He really inspires me on the sounds and the spacey, futuristic, you know, generation that we're in.
Yeah, no, it really just inspires me to just keep going, you know, we're on a new wave, we're on a new page.
Get fucking lit!
To be real honest, bro, I think he's like a 15 year old girl, like rap artist.
I think it's kind of cute.
Little short dude.
Some crazy shit, bro, we just need more bottles in that bitch.
Real shit. Uzi is ass. Who wasted their money on this concert?
50 bucks, bro.
And there's my doll right there, I fucked with him.
I'm gonna turn it up.
If you could say something to Little Uzi Vert right now, what would you say?
I would say your name sounds really cool.
What does Little Uzi Vert mean to you?
I'm not for sure, man.
Little Uzi Vert or Little Yachty?
Little Uzi or Little Yachty?
Oh man, Little Yachty man, I don't know, I like that name.
Little Yachty.
If you were to take a bath with Little Uzi, what liquid would you bathe in?
Coding.
Lean.
Straight up lean.
Diet coke.
Could you sum up Little Uzi Vert in like 13 syllables?
Um, holy shit, um, get live for the crowd before you die and move the fuck on.
Is Little Uzi Vert a cat person or a dog person?
Dog.
Do you think Little Uzi Vert is a cat person or a dog person?
Cat person.
Cat.
I'd say cat.
If you were to take a bath with Little Uzi Vert, what liquid would you bathe in?
The other side of the bathtub, and we'd have to throw a shitload of chicks in there.
There'd have to be lots of booze, man, because I want to be good.
What would you fill the bathtub with?
I'd fill it without, not alcohol, because I don't want to die from alcohol poisoning, but that would be cool.
Maybe a light alcohol.
Fill a highlight for some shit.
That's not good.
Are you guys here for Little Uzi Vert?
No, but nothing's not hitting us.
Bro, we matched on Tinder.
If you would like to find out who listens to another artist, then comment down below on
what artist you would like us to interview the fans on who listened to them.
What?
What?
What?
What?
What?
What?
God bless our African rappers in this world.
400 years now.
A man like me want to go back to Pangea and see a place like that.
You guys are Pharaohs now.
You're all kings.
No matter what color.
God bless you.
