Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Concrete Podcast. Today we have two guests,
Dolce Brito and Jessica Bell, who are here to talk about a lawsuit filed on behalf of 14 inmates
at a Florida prison, which accuses the male staff and correctional officers at the prison of sexual
assault and rape over a number of years. Dolce and Jess claim to know the women in this lawsuit
personally, and what's interesting is they're not backing up these women's claims, but instead
they're defending the male prison staff and the Bureau of Prisons. So this podcast is
loaded with mind-blowing stories. I really enjoyed it and I hope you do too. Enjoy the show.
Hello ladies, welcome to the podcast. Thank you for coming out here and doing this today.
Do you guys want to introduce yourselves? Tell me a little bit about what your name is and
just give us a little introduction to who you are. So I'm Jesse and I live in Mayaca City and
I just got out of prison about like nine months ago. I went to prison for conspiracy to distribute
meth. It's like 18 pounds altogether, like in the case. Wow. I work at a dairy now. Yeah,
waiting to go to school in August for marine mechanics. Very cool. How about yourself? My name
is Dulce. I live in Zephyr Hills, Florida. I went to prison for trafficking methamphetamine
across the Mexican border. I was in there for three years at Coleman, but now I'm a server at
Fresh Country Cafe. Okay, cool. How did you guys know each other? Prison. You guys met in prison.
And what prison did you guys go to? Coleman. That's like one of the biggest prisons in the
country, isn't it? It is. It's like three square miles, like a little over 2,200 acres. That's
wild. Now, I know one of the main reasons that you guys are in here today is to talk about
an article that came out in the Miami Herald that you guys are both very familiar with, right?
Yes. The title of the article is Rape is Rampant at this Women's Prison. Anyone who complains is
punished, the lawsuit says. And this article was published on December 4th, 2019. And what's really
interesting about this article, basically the premise of the article is there's a bunch of
female inmates at Coleman that are accusing correctional officers of rape. Is that right?
And so there's a group of women, which makes it a class action lawsuit that are suing the
Bureau of Prisons. Am I right? Right. Okay. And what's interesting is that you girls
are here not to jump on the bandwagon, accusing the correctional officers of rape.
What's extremely interesting is that you guys are here to defend the correctional officers
and the Bureau of Prisons from what seems to be a conspiracy by these female inmates to set up
the prison guards. Right. Basically. Yeah. Kind of. Yeah. That's why you that's what you guys are
doing, right? Yeah. Why are you guys doing that? Can you expand on that a little bit? Like, I know
a lot of the girls a little bit a little bit closer. I know a lot of the girls like in the lawsuit
and they personally, okay, when, I don't know if you guys heard about the lawsuit of the,
that the female officers did against the Bureau of Prisons. You're talking about 2017 when there
was over 500 female officers. Right. That did a lawsuit. They filed a lawsuit basically saying
that the male inmates were harassing them, right? Well, when that thing happened and everybody
like caught wind of it, like they wanted to do the same thing. So like, well, if the officers
can do it, like, why can't they inmates? Right. So like, and that they got awarded over $20 million,
right? Yeah, between them, who the women officers. Yeah. No, it's like a big thing. Like, they made
a in welding, they made like a, like a, like an arm armor thingy that they were going to put the
women officers in when they did count, but they didn't do it. But they changed our pants and
everything. So when that happened, the girls want to do the same thing. They're like, Oh,
like, if they can do it, why can't we sue? And then a lot of them, they want revenge on the system
because they're mad that they're in prison. Yeah. So like, their, their type of revenge is getting
to people that are watching us in prison. Or it's like a personal vendetta against them. Like,
because they got fired from the, so they want like revenge, because they got fired off a job.
So how many women are in this current lawsuit? There's 14. 14 women who are banding together
to sue the Bureau of Prisons. Yes. Okay. And did you guys personally meet any of those women?
I think I know like 12 or 13 out of 14. I know all of them.
Really? Yeah. Except for one, one name I don't recognize in the lawsuit. No, but if I probably
saw a picture of her, like, I probably would know her, but I don't know off name the last one.
And how well do you know those girls? I was really close with, I want to say three of them,
about three of them. Yeah. But we worked with a lot of them like every day.
It's tiny. There's only like 400 girls in the prison. So everybody knows everybody.
Everybody knows your business. Okay. How long were you guys locked up for?
Four years. Four. I did 20, 30, three months. 33 months. Okay. Why are you guys here, here to
defend the prisoner, the prison guards? Why defend them? Were they, was there something
you saw in there that made you feel like this is, it's wrong that they're doing this?
Well, I know it's wrong because their reasons are wrong. Like if you were raped, you were raped.
And like that's something that would have been different. But like these girls
showed up, came to me and told me that this was what they were going to do.
And they were doing it for either time cut or they wanted like a boyfriend or something to
get time cut or they just want to revenge. And it's wrong. Like they used to come up to me and
brag about it. So you're bragging about it and you know you're doing it. Some of them are even
in relationships with the officers, but now you want to claim rape when there's money involved.
When you say they're in relationships with the officers, what do you mean by that?
Like relationships. Like genuine relationships. Yeah. Like they want to be together after prison.
Really? Well, want it to be because I don't think they do anymore.
And these girls literally told you while you were in there that they would want to set
up or that they would eventually want to set up the prison correctional officers?
Yeah. No, they told me they were going to. When I was leaving, they told me they were going to do it.
That they wanted to take them down basically because they were mad. One of them that were in
law school, Amanda, she was mad that she was being harassed. She said because de Camilla,
he was like investigating it. So he was like following her around because she was like involved
in everything. So she said she was feeling harassed. So she was going to sue him for harassment.
She said what? That she was feeling harassed by him because he was the investigation person
that investigated everything. So if you feel harassed and he's trying to get you to talk to him
and you don't want to talk to him, why talk to him later on? Like if all that was happening.
Right. And like when he will follow us around is because like we would drop her off to these
officers and she was okay with it. Or we were meeting up somebody to like get pastries. I'm
serious. And she was okay with it. But now like she got mad and now it's rape. Right. So now she's
saying she got raped and it's a big lawsuit. Now some of the girls in the lawsuit say that they
were like cornered. They were cornered in the cafeteria. Yeah. The cafeteria is way too open
to be cornered. Maybe in the back, but a few of them said that they would like work late. Like
some of the officers would make them work late so they could corner them when nobody was around.
Or they were like forced into the woods. Or like some of them said they had to like
suntan naked in front of the correctional officers. All that is true, but it's it didn't
happen like that. Nobody was forced. Nobody was coerced. Nobody was threatened. Nobody's family
was threatened. Like these women 100% wanted to go in the woods or really? Yeah. Absolutely.
And you think they're all they're all lying. I don't I don't think that I know the majority of them
are lying. A majority of them are not all of them. Right. Maybe there's a couple. Just like you.
But it is it is fully illegal for the correctional officers to have any sort of like sexual
relationship with an inmate. Right. So there's this thing that they passed in 2003 a law called
PREA and PREA stands for Prison Rape Elimination Act. So it basically states it's like zero tolerance
for any kind of sexual misconduct. So anything from a verbal comment to actually having sex is
considered rape, whether it's consensual or not. Right. Right. So technically it's a perfectly
legit lawsuit because it was rape. Yeah, but they weren't cornered. It is but morally threatened.
I think morally it's not morally it's not rape. I think that what the women are doing is it's
not right. I think that maybe they you think they're exploiting the system or exploiting the laws or
the rules. Right. Exactly. Why? Because they can say anything from just like being talked to,
harassed or something falls into that whole that whole category. Yes. Yeah. Whether it's
consensual or not. Like it's rape. These guys are hit. Like they're going down.
Now what now what's happening to these girls or what's going to happen to them now that they've
filed that lawsuit now that they're all going against the prison guards and they're going
against the prison. Are they going to get sent to like another facility? Are they going to be
suffer the consequences of doing that? Or what do you think's happening to them right now?
Some of them are home and some of them got shipped. So a lot of them are not at Coleman anymore.
But some of them are still there because I know there was an agreement when all this first started
coming out that that the girls wouldn't be shipped. So they would talk, talk about it. But before that,
yeah, like you just got shipped. Like if they sent you somewhere else. Yeah. If there was an
investigation and it didn't go anywhere, like they shipped you so it didn't show their negligence.
What would you say the biggest misconception in a woman's prison is what's the biggest
misunderstanding of a woman's prison being a female prisoner in a big federal prison like that?
I feel like where we were at least it's not like a prison. I feel like I was at like
college. Girls go on one. Really? Yeah. College for criminals. Yeah. Like I don't feel like I was
in prison. So it's like the things that happen there, you don't, you wouldn't expect to happen.
Like what? The whole sunbathing. Like we did do that. The officers were not around when I did it at
least. And then there's times where like we would just drive around all day, listen to music.
Drive around in what? In the vehicles. On the prison? Yeah. Like they gave us keys to cars.
And you could drive around on the prison property? On the compound. Yes. Yeah. Because the camp is
it's not like a prison at all. There's no fence. No. It's nothing to see female prisoners walk around
like doing their job. Really? Yeah. So we should like drive around. So girls would just walk around,
tan, topless, driving cars, bumping music. The camp is like the camp. So like when you're on the camp
no because like they're watching on the cameras. But if you work like outside like on landscaping
or you worked in facility or something and you're or plumbing and you can have a vehicle,
that's what they would do. And I got to know the time when the time was raining and we were super
bored and we took like the gator and we tied the a rope to the back of it and we got a trash can
top and we just went mudding and one of us sat on the top and we just pulled them behind it.
That's sick. And we just had like we just did things like that like fun. Definitely went mudding
all the time. Yeah. Is it is it like that on the the male side of the camp at all? No,
they're locked down. Well, you see the thing is like the whole rape thing, you're only hearing
about it with the prisons. But like my baby daddy, he's in prison. Your baby daddy is? Yeah,
at the low and the same thing happens there but you don't really hear about it. The same thing
with the male officers and I mean the male inmates and the female officers and you don't
hear about it. They have consensual relationships? Yeah. And they sleep with each other like he just
told me the other day that a female was escorted off the compound. A correctional officer? Yeah,
because she got caught with an inmate. But like nobody hears about that part. You only hear about
what's happening at the camp. What happens to that officer like when they get suspended? And I
think that's it. Like all the officers that are listed in the lawsuit like they they've only been
like suspended or forced to retire early retirement or they get transferred to another prison to work.
Yeah, I don't think that people work that work in the prison system are like the cream of the crop.
They're definitely not. Yeah, because you think I mean people that don't make it as cops,
not the most, doesn't take a very ambitious person to work in the prison system. It seems like a
very depressing place to want to work. Right, because they're in prison too. So yeah. And if you
see a lot of the officers like a lot of them are retarded. It's like their cousins and their
I'm being serious. All of them are retarded. And then if you look because we used to mow the
penitentiaries and we will mow the medium and the low. So if you look at the officers that they put
in those prisons compared to what we had, like it's a big difference. In what prisons? At the
penitentiary of the medium or the low. Okay. The officers there are totally different from what
we had. We had like the tiny nerdy guys. Why all the guys with muscles and tattoos were at the
penitentiaries. Like they kind of knew that. They're not going to make it over at the penitentiary.
Not only that, not going to make it. They would never make it. But it was like if they put,
they know if they put a good looking officer at the camp, that's what's going to happen. They're
going to get like jumped by the female. Yeah, exactly. I remember one time we got our TV's
taken away for a whole week because we had it. He was even cute. They got from the training center.
I do remember. Because the girls were cat calling him. So we got TV's taken away.
Yeah. That's hilarious. Yeah, for like a whole week. But it's funny. I wouldn't say funny is
the right word. But in the 2017 lawsuit where there's 524 women suing the bureau of prisons,
they were saying that the women were walking, they would have to walk down the hallway and watch
like dozens of dudes jerking off. Which is why we had to change our pants. They took our pants
with pockets and gave us pants without pockets. Which makes it easier, in my opinion. It does.
Because they gave the girls pants without pockets. Everybody, the whole complex.
So that you can't, because they said that guys were putting their hands in their pockets. They
cut the pockets and they put their hands in their pockets. They would stick their wieners
through the pocket hole and then beat off. So the no pockets, like you don't have a button or
anything. So it's easier to put your hands in there. But like see, like it's weird because like
the female officers soon, but when we go mowing, they do that. They stand at the windows where
we're on our mowers and they're just, they hold up signs. Seriously? Or with their inmate numbers
telling you to write them. Yeah, or they got their junk out and. Oh my. Like leaving it. Yeah,
we had a guy named Old Faithful. Every time we mowed, he was right there waiting for us
at that table. Same table every day. Why did you guys call him Old Faithful? Because he was there
every day. Every time he was mowing. What would he do? Just sit there and watch us and jack off.
And just jack off? And would you guys ever like reported or say anything? No, to me it's funny.
It's probably entertaining for you guys, right? It is. But it's like funny to me, but like, I mean
other people would probably complain about it. So like, I felt like if they're going to sue,
like sue over that, because that's like for real. But like the whole rape thing, I don't
believe it was rape. And I saw another story of a woman who was actually knocked up by
a prison guard. Yeah, she was at Coleman. Do you know that lady? No. She got shot before we got there.
Okay. Do you think that that was a consensual? I mean, yeah, they're in a relationship now.
They still are in a relationship. And her, the officer's wife works at Coleman and she hates
the females. Wow. Miss Torres? Yeah. She hates the females. So she's not allowed to work with us.
Because she's mean. That's crazy. Did you guys ever think, I mean, when you got, what was your
first reaction when you first saw that come out, that article? Did you guys? I laughed. I just,
it's crazy. Did you know it was like that before you guys went there? No. I remember the day that I
went in and I was in R&D. Yeah. The male officer told me that it was like a college. And I was
lying. He's like, don't worry. It's not scary. It's like a college. You couldn't tell me that kind
of stuff happened when I first got there. But the first day I had somebody come up to me and
they're like, oh, we see me. So-and-so, it was her boss. And she's like, we're sleeping together.
And I'm like, what? There was another inmate that said that. So it's just like a common thing.
Yes. Yeah. It's just like a college dorm. For the inmates and correctional officers,
just humping everywhere. Yeah. For the 14 women, I guarantee you that on the lawsuit,
there's another 28 or are not more than Bob. That have had sexual relations with officers and so.
Because I know a lot that are not in the lawsuit, which like, I find that that's okay,
because they-and they got caught and they got in trouble. And some of them got shipped,
some of them went to county, but they're not in the lawsuit. Why don't you think some of them
are in the lawsuit? Why do you think so? Because they know it's not rape. Yeah,
they chose-you chose if you wanted to be there or not. And they-I felt like they knew it wasn't
rape, so they don't want a part of it. You would think though, it's got to be hard if you're in
there and there's all these other girls doing it like, hey, we're going to get all this-we're
going to get millions to not just join them and be like, okay, I'll join in on the lawsuit. If
I get a piece of it, what's 100 grand? Screw it. You know what I mean? It's hard to say that,
I don't know, maybe their morals are higher than that, but-exactly. Is that what it-is that the
case? I think that's what it comes down to, yeah. Or some of them just don't want it out there.
Like, take it to the grave. Oh, okay. Yeah, I can see that. So what is the, like,
the Bureau of Prisons doing to fight against it? I don't think they're doing anything.
I think everything's the same right now. I think that they really can't. Yeah, because it's hard.
There's not really, it's rape regardless. If there's enough girls come out and say that
they had sexual relations with these guys, at some point, it's like whether it was consensual
or not, it's against the rules and they're going to have to pay. And there's no point,
there's no way to prove it now because like the ones, the officers that were involved in the lawsuit
kind of were sleeping with inmates. So it's easy, like if I was sleeping with an officer
and I wanted to sue, I slept with him so I know what everything looks like. So I could tell her
what it looked like. So it's easier for her to say. Like what his junk looked like? Yeah. Okay.
So it's easier for her to describe it when an investigation comes because half those girls I
know really didn't have sex with them. But it's easier because there's a lot of officers that
are not involved that did have sex with inmates. That they're throwing them under the boss either
way? No, there's some that are not in that did have sex with them and they're not listed. Oh,
really? Yes. And it's harder to prove because not everybody talks about them. So you can't say
that the officer from Unicorn, you can't really describe it if nobody tells you what it looks
like, but he will tell you about people. So it's like... Is that like a main question they ask?
Yeah. To identify the guy? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Yeah. If you claim rape, you gotta tell them how it
looks like. Or they try to get you to set them up. We get it like, yeah. Did anything like that
happen when you guys were locked up? Yeah. Who was it? It was leaving R&D on their way out.
And she agreed to set one of the officers up and she actually got a semen sample on her shirt or
something. She saved it and he's hit. What do you think these girls, I mean, have you guys been
speaking like out against this publicly at all before this? No. He posted on Facebook and a lot
of them deleted me. They didn't. Because I called them liars. Yeah. I said they were liars and they
didn't like it. They couldn't delete me. So they did. Wow. Well, they definitely are taking advantage
of the laws. You know, whether it was consensual or not, there's no way that they're not gonna win
or they're not gonna get a settlement. Oh, they're definitely gonna win. They're definitely gonna
get a settlement, right? Right. But I don't see how it's gonna change anything in the prison system.
I don't see that. I don't see... Do you guys see any way that the prison system will ever change
in the near future or even down the road? I don't. Because when the female officers sued,
nothing changed. They changed our pants and that was it. That was it. So the no pockets?
Yeah, no pockets and it did nothing. They still do it. You arrested for possession or
trafficking of meth, right? And yours was? Distribution. Distribution. You crossed the
Mexican border with it from Mexico to here? With how much? With 15 kilos. Just you or?
No, me and my best friend. Were you living in Mexico at the time? No, I was living in Vegas.
You just went down there, picked it up and we're bringing it back? Pretty much. How do you get
caught? How did that situation become like? I had a friend that she was involved with it
and then she told me and I was young. I was like, well, I'm still young, but I was younger.
How old were you at the time? 19. And I thought that it would be a great idea because they were
just flashing around money and they were promising all these things like nice cars and houses and
a lot of money. It was a lot of money. They paid you how much? When you brought it over, right?
Yeah. How much did you get paid? So you get 15,000. It's not that much, but... It's a nice lick.
Yeah, I mean for just to cross it. But then on top of that, they're just giving you money every
single day, like thousands of dollars. Who's actually giving you the money? The people.
Basically, the people that were organizing all of it were giving you money. They paid off my bank
account because I was like overdrafted. They gave me money to go shopping. They gave me money to get
things in Mexico. They paid for the car, everything. They want to keep you happy so you'll
keep bringing it across. Yeah, they'll pay for your rent. They'll buy you cars. They'll do whatever
you want, whatever you want. And this was a regular thing? You were crossing the border,
bringing in... No, I only went twice. Oh, okay. You got bus the second time? Yeah. Tell them how
you got caught. Yeah. How were you transporting it? Like, how were you hiding it? They have,
I forgot, they call it, but they call it something. And they basically built a compartment inside the
car. And they hid it in there. So when we got caught, I probably wouldn't never even went to prison,
but the border was closed. And I didn't like... It was my second time. I don't know what to do
when the border is closed. So I see everybody going one way. So I went that same way. Well,
that way is like a sentry lane. You need a special pass to go on that lane. And I didn't know that.
So when you go on that lane and you don't have the pass, you automatically have to go to secondary
inspection. Oh no. So that's how we got caught. Like secondary, we had to go to the X-ray. And then
the X-ray didn't see anything inside the car. So then they're doing the... They're asking us questions,
everything. They're checking the car. They brought the canine. Canine didn't smell anything in the
car. Well, they knew it because one of the density levels in the seats were different.
One was like 13 and another one was like higher. So they knew since the density levels were higher,
on one side there was something in it. So they had like shred the car in pieces and they got it.
And then of course we were arrested. Wow. So you arrested the board then. Where do they take you
from there? Immigration. Yeah. And how long are you there for? I was there for a day, but it was like
worst ever because you're in a room with kids that have lice.
With kids? Yeah. Like how old kids? Like with kids. All the kids from immigration where they're like
they're with babies there and the way the immigration was set up, like you're sleeping on the floor,
kids and all. What? And they have like diapers and bottles and everything that you need here.
They feed you cold food. It was horrible. And I was only there for a couple hours and it was horrible.
There's literal babies in there. Babies in immigration. And how are they taking care of the babies?
With the things that the people... Are their parents there? Yeah. They're there with their
parents. Oh okay. Either waiting for paperwork or waiting to get deported, but they're there with
their parents. But they have lice and it was kind of creepy because you're passing through the rooms
and there's literally one room set up where the mom and the kids and the mom's brushing the lice
out their hair. It's like bad and then they feed you like bricks. Bricks. It's tortilla and it's cold
and it's cold eggs and it's cold potatoes. And you got a certain amount of time to eat it. And
then the marsh was came and got us and took us to the airport, which was probably the most embarrassing
thing ever. And then... Why was it embarrassing? Because you're going to the airport with people.
They walk you through with cops and everything. Yeah. And they're walking you through. So everybody
knows like you just got arrested. And they took us to MCC, which is a prison in California. And then...
State prison? No. It's a federal holding detention.
And then they ship you to Florida? No. We got out on bond. And then we were out for like a year
or two. And then we got sentenced. And then what, you took it to trial? No, I did not take it to trial.
Everybody told me not to take a trial because you automatically get the max. Yeah. If when you lose.
Yeah. No, like they'll find something to put on you. Oh, they'll figure it out. Like even if you
didn't get arrested for that, they're finding something to get you with. Yeah. Because there's
no way that they could afford to take cases to trial. So they just kind of like lie and stack
stuff to make it to where you have no choice but to take a plea. Yeah. Because we were going to take
a trial first. Because the car wasn't under my name. Like how can you prove that I knew it was in
there? Right. So I was going to take a trial. But everybody told me not to. So I just took a
the plea agreement. And the plea was for what? What did you say? Two years? The plea was actually
for a year and a day. Okay. And they gave me three years. And then shipped you to Coleman?
No, I moved to Florida because my family was here because I was pregnant. And then
they let me have the baby and then I had a self surrender at Coleman.
And that's where you did the remainder of your time. And how about you? What was your
how did you what was your story of how you got arrested or got busted? Really? I was just I was
kind of brought up a little bit closer, brought up around drugs most of my life. So it was just
kind of like normal for me to to get some and sell it and make some money in Florida. Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. So were you like cooking math or what? No, I never never cooked math. No, we had this guy
that we got it from. His name was wild man. Wild man. Yeah. Okay. And you just you just
distributed it. Yeah. And how did you get caught distributing it? I guess the the county that
we were in had been trying to get this guy wild man for a while and they couldn't for some reason
or the other. So they brought in DEA and the feds eventually got involved and yeah. How long were
you and how long were you in prison for? Four years, almost four years. Almost four years.
Yours almost doesn't even seem as bad as as hers. And you got more time. Right.
How did that? How did that happen? I don't know how it works. I know that they they look at your
stuff and and they decide your priors decide differently for everybody. Really? And conspiracies
more conspiracies like I think automatically five years. And then like the judge was kind of like
lenient because it's common to see young girls get pulled over Mexico. Yeah. Because the young
because I could say I could see how someone like yourself like trafficking something or
like driving a car full of meth. You're not really a high level target in like the whole
operation. You're just kind of like a pawn. You're just like some cash. Do this for us.
Yeah. So they're basically saying that we were like a young and naive and we're just like
the tiny people that they use basically to like get what they wanted. Right. I'm just like I'm
lucky that we had what we had and that's something different because you don't know what you're
bringing in the car back. Like you don't even know what you have. No. You're just bringing
like money. You're bringing anything. You don't know. You just go down there with a car.
And they take it from you. They load it up and they bring it back. And then you just go
drive it back. You don't even know where it's at. So they what are the instructions like that.
Basically this guy just says go to this address. They say go to Mexico. Go to the first gas station
you see by a track phone. Then you do that and then you call him and then he says OK and then
go to this place. Someone's going to be waiting for you. So we do that. Then they say get in this
taxi which is kind of like now I think about it like I probably could have died. Oh yeah. And
then we meet this other guy and they take us to a hotel and then we leave the car
at the bottom of the keys inside and they pick up the car and then they bring the car back.
And then the next day we got to get the car washed and we got to go shopping to make it look like
we did something in Mexico and then we leave and that's it. Sounds like an episode of that
locked up abroad show. Yeah. It's like all or breaking bad. Right. That's pretty much and then
like they were waiting for us at the border because somebody snitched us out because she got caught
first. And so you're with one other girl. I was with my best friend but we didn't know that they
sent two of us at the same time like two vehicles. So they sent two vehicles at the same time same
hotel same everything. Well she got caught first crossing the border crossing the border and she
knew what car we were in. So she snitched us out. Oh no. Yeah. Your best friend. No. She was in the
car with me. Okay. The other car snitched you. So they knew like I feel like even if I wasn't in
secondary I mean in that lane I probably would have got caught. They probably would have found you.
What happened to your best friend? Did she get the same time you did? Same thing.
Now when you guys got out of prison like was there any kind of special any kind of like
special treatment or any kind of like structure set up for you guys to like build a new life
once you guys got out like like jobs or any kind of income or any kind of housing or what was there
when you guys finally got released like what did you guys have to do? Do you mean like through the
BOP? Yeah like through the through the BOP through like the system did they help you guys get back
on your feet in any way or give you guys any sort of like guidance? Like you go to the halfway house
and that's basically to help you get back on your feet. You have to get a job and yeah but I don't
think it helps us. We got paid like a lot of our check to stay there which I rather not even stay
there. You got to eat their food if you don't like it you got to buy something different they
don't help you find jobs. There's no resources at all like through them. They just give you a piece of
paper that tells you who's hiring and then you got to go buy. Yeah I don't even think they give you
bus passes if you don't have a car. I think the first time the very first time you get a bus pass
but after that you gotta figure it out. Yeah and that's it and then they give you like a voucher to
shop at Goodwill the very first time. Oh really? Yeah and that's it. That's crazy. It's almost like
they want people to get sucked back into the system. That's kind of how I feel like even prison
even. I can definitely see that. Like we've had our unit manager she used to tell us it was a job
security like for her. To get them just coming back in. She wants you to come back. Really? Yeah
she used to see that all the time and they don't help you out come in either. The counselors don't
help you. The case managers don't help you. I find they just don't care. There's so many of us so
like and they're understaffed and they don't care. They just push your paperwork and get you out.
They just kind of show up. They just show up and do their job. They barely show up. When they
do show up they hide from you. They don't want to talk to you. They barely do open house. Yeah
they don't want to help. That's sad. Really sad. It's fucked up system. It is sad because it's
super hard to get back out and on your feet and like that is the reason why a lot of people go
back is you don't have the resources. You don't have the help that you need. Right and would you
say most of the girls that were in there with you guys in there for drugs? Yeah or fraud. Drugs or
fraud. Yeah. If there were any young girls out there who were getting busted for anything whether
it be drug trafficking or or whatever they're about to go spend a lot of time in prison what
advice would you give them? Think about your consequences. What does that mean? Like before
you before you do it if you're gonna take drugs across the border or just don't get arrested.
Don't go to prison. Well what about like if they're about if they have no choice they're already
busted they're going to prison they're gonna do they're gonna they don't go to come in. Don't go
to prison. Serious. Like if I didn't if I didn't have kids I probably wouldn't have learned my lesson
because it's not like a real prison. So the reason why I learned my lesson is because I have kids
so I was away from them so it was hard but if I didn't have kids I wouldn't have mind being there
because I had fun sometimes. Right and being in there didn't really. It didn't like. Like
want to make you change. No. When you get out. It's like a game and you meet like some really good
people but really nobody's your friend. Yeah. Nobody's your friend. Well. Well you guys made
friends right. You had a baby daddy too though right wasn't that hard not not seeing him because I
mean a lot of people say that when they go in there and they have like a wife or a girlfriend
that they will like cut it off beforehand because they know that just like the the pain of not being
able to see them or like being jealous of them like cheating on them is too much so they just end
it before they go in. Yeah. Well the guy that I was talking about earlier I wasn't with him when we
were in. Okay. When I was in Coleman. Okay. Yeah. But still it's true. It just makes your time easier.
You're not worried about what they're doing. You don't have to worry about if they don't answer
the phone like and you only get 300 minutes a month. So if you like if you're worried about a
boyfriend like you're measuring gone in one day. You're done. And you're done. Yeah. The whole
month the next 29 days you're just like. Right. You're just waiting to talk to me and wonder what
they're doing. And how many kids did you have. I had two. You had two. Did you see did you
day visit you at all when you're in. Okay. Yeah. They have children days like that. Oh really.
For the kids. Yeah. Oh that's nice. Yeah. Was there any bad times in there for you guys like with
the prison guards that they ever tried to pursue relationships with you or guys or have sex with
there was never any kind of forceful like situations where you guys felt kind of like vulnerable. No
I don't think so. Really. No. Because they put all the nerdy prison guards in there.
Yeah. Is that what you said earlier. Yeah. And these guards they basically know like which females
they can mess with or not like because they're throwing themselves at sometimes like I've had an
officer tried to hold my hand but I'd be like no and that's it. So I don't feel like that's why I
don't feel like it's forced because it's the same officer that was in there. Right. They put just
the scrawny little nerds like me and him in there as prison guards. All the jacks gorillas with
tattoos are over at the men's prison. Right. So that's why you feel like all these women are
pretty much lying on the case and yeah I mean it's consensual and right. Well I know a lot of them
work essential. Like I know like I've had these girls come out to me and tell me that they were
doing it. Well I mean it's crazy. It's it's it means a lot that you guys are coming on here
and saying that you know not that you guys really have any kind of dog in the fight. Not that you
guys really care if the prison saves money or if those girls get paid money. I think it's really
controversial that you guys are sticking up for the Bureau of Prisons and the prison they're
correctional officers versus the women and saying that they're lying. Just the fact that you
guys are exposing the truth. I think it's I think it's important and I think it's admirable.
The truth is the truth and you guys are exposing it for what it is. Exactly that's what I think
what's right is right. Are there any other notable stories that you think would be interesting for
people to hear. Let's talk about the time we went hog hunting. Okay in the camp at Coleman. Yeah
did they give you guys guns. No no that's like another charge but we were bored one day and
they're like you're in what is it used to be a wildlife sanctuary. There's a conservation it's
like 200 and some acres of just it's for gopher turtles and indigo snakes but there's a lot of
like wildlife there's hogs there's foxes coyotes. They used to have wild horses but they had to get
rid of them. Oh really? Well for real yeah. Why they get rid of the horses? Because it's uh it was
like a lawsuit with like insurance like somebody got hit by a horse. Hit run over by a horse. Yeah
they said it was like insurance thingy that they couldn't have the horses there so they had to get
rid of the wild horses. So how did you guys how did you guys go hog hunting without a gun. So hogs
are dangerous. Yeah I mean they're all right as long as you approach them from the rear. What were
you hunting them with. They just grabbed them like we were just trying to wrestle one down.
Yeah they were bored well we were waiting to go where we were in medium maybe.
We were going mowing somewhere and we were waiting we went we were in the gator yeah right
it was the gator it was the gator and we were in the gator and I was in the middle. I don't remember
where I was at but I remember I had hot coffee and it went everywhere and then a spider came and I
was yelling because the spider was like it was like a big spider and it was like on the gator
while she's driving and I felt like she was gonna crash and then they just hop out of the gator
and catch these little piggies and the piggies are crying the momma ran away somewhere. So you're
catching like the little the little baby hogs. Did you catch one. They caught one. What'd you do with
it. They let me just let it go I mean you can't really do anything with it but it was like we can't
take it so it was just for the sport. You can't bring it in here. Catch and release. They tried to
catch a armadillo one time. Have you ever tried to chase an armadillo. Yeah I have tried to chase
an armadillo. Help. They're crazy. Well my uncle has this driveway where there's like a there's
like a like a sewer a ditch sewer that goes like underneath the driveway you know what I mean. Yeah
so he would chase it into one end of it and then he'd wait on the other end for it to come out and
he had a pitchfork and he pitchforks the armadillos on the other side and he flings them into the
woods. Oh you didn't eat it. He's a crazy redneck. No he just caked it. And Norma it's the other time
we go there's uh in the complex there's a what was it not training center um where they shoot
everything at. The shooting range. Oh the shooting range. Of course. Okay so there's shooting range
there and sometimes we'd be mowing and they'd be having those little bombs on the floor
and they like what is it inside of a pepper spray or something. CS gas is what it is.
CS gas. It's a tear gas. They leave everything on the floor. Yeah so if you like run over it
like you're crying. No. Yeah the thingy but we used to go to the shooting range because
there's no cameras. They really can't see you in there and we'd have water fights there
the flipping slides. In the shooting range. In the shooting range. Oh my god. There's the big hill
in the back. Yeah. You know to catch the bullets so yeah they set up a slip and slide and everything
like chicks are in their their sports brawls and just. Slipping around. Slipping around slip and slide.
Is this where the girls gone wild scene comes in? Is that what you guys were talking about girls
gone wild? Not only that we have parties for Halloween and New Year's and all the units
go into one unit and we have a multi-purpose room and they all go in a multi-purpose room.
Everybody's dressed up. Some are not even dressed up. Where did you guys get your costumes?
They make it. They make it. Really? Yeah like paper. What were you got? What was your costume?
No we didn't dress up. So there was this one girl she literally had a string because you know you
could crochet in there and a lot of girls made their their own outfits but this one girl had
two paper pumpkins and a string and that was it like yeah or the laundry bag. Do you know like
a net laundry bag? Yeah. Like a mesh bag? Yeah she had that. Just just that. Just that yeah. Wow.
And they go in a multi-purpose room and we play music and they like dance. They give each other
lab dances. The girls do? Yeah. So how many girls are in there at that party? 400. No not everybody
has a lot of old people. A lot of old people. Probably about half. There's this pack. So there's
like 100 or 200 women in the party. Yeah. Just yeah. How many girls would you say were like your
guys age? Like 20s? I was the youngest. You were the youngest? Yeah I was the youngest. Jocelyn was
afterwards but I was the youngest. Probably probably about half. Really? It's pretty evenly
ranged. What depends on what age? Like 30 through 20 I want to say like for like 30 girls. The rest
are like in their 40s. A little older? Yeah. Okay. Were any of the old women like walking around with
pumpkins on their boobs without any kind of like scantily clad? I don't think so. But what did
happen was um there was an older lady. She had been down for a long time. She had like life. I don't
remember her name. Juanita. Yes. So this girl she's dancing and stripping and they pull Juanita out
and set this chair up and set her in it and this girl just like going to town. She used to be a stripper
on the street. Oh really? Yeah. Dancing on her and like this chick she like licks her back.
Juanita licked her back? Yeah. It was serious. It was serious. Was there any like drugs or alcohol
in there? So we were on lockdown when I first got there. I don't think you were there yet.
We were on lockdown for like I want to say a month maybe. I might say forever like a month but it
felt like forever because they found uh I want to say a pound of meth in one of the warehouses.
A pound of meth in there? In the pallets. Yeah so they don't know. It could have been an officer
because I don't see an inmate doing it. Yeah well what would an inmate do with a pound of meth?
Well they were trying to get it to the men's inside the men's. So it was in the pallet that we
do the boxes that go into the men's prison. So it was like in one of the shipments pretty much
and somebody found it and snitched it out. So an officer is not going to say they did it. Right
of course. But I'm pretty sure it was an officer because why would like we're not going to get paid
for it. Right. Like they are. What about like contraband? Was there like a lot of contraband
going around in there where they're like where like girls like trying to figure out how to like
smuggle dildos into the prison? So I don't know about dildos but like everything's contraband.
Earrings that they don't sell there's contraband. Pannies are contraband. So anything that they
don't sell on commissary is contraband. Okay. So they there was like there's some girls like I
told you they would sleep with officers for like earrings. Like little five dollar packets
like by Claire's. Yeah. And then they would sell every individual earrings for five dollars.
And then there were some girls that they would get Suboxone and girls would buy Suboxone's.
What else? I know that candy. Stupid things like that. Gummy worms. That you don't get on
commissary. They will get it from the officers. Big thing. Eyelashes were big like makeup. So is
this some of the reason that is this part of the reason that some of the girls would sleep with the
guards because they'd bring them presents like that? Like contraband. Well they would sleep
with them first and then slowly. So the guards. Oh my God. So he's like bringing her gifts. Yeah.
Like instead of flowers you bring her some gummy worms. Yeah. We had one. Cigarettes. Cigarettes.
We had one that was pretty young and like I knew her and we were close there. She's not in the
lawsuit and she was sleeping with officers for like lobster. Lobster is bringing lobster.
Walking around the compound eating it. Yeah. Living. And like she like she everybody knew about
it pretty much. This dude was going to Red Lobster. And she would just do it for that and then
she got her friend involved like a girl came on a compound. She thought the girl was pretty
and she told her hey this is what I'm doing. I think you're pretty. Come join me and that's when
the threesomes came involved and then they were both getting things and then other girls would
get jealous and snitched them out. And snitch on them. Yeah. And then they got ships because they
were doing it. They're not in the lawsuit though. But we knew they were doing it. Wow. That's crazy.
It's so insane because you think that any any normal person without any kind of knowledge of
what you guys are talking about that would see that article. They're like oh my god we knew those
girls get raped in prison. That's so fucked up. You know what I mean. You would just you would
just assume that that girls are getting taken advantage of someone who didn't know what it
was actually like. Right. So it's crazy to hear these stories from you guys. And there's a lot
of girls that know it's a lie. Like when I posted it on my Facebook a lot of people were like oh my
god poor girls. And then me and a couple girls that weren't coming were like no like no poor girls
like they knew what they're doing. Poor guys like some of them. There was a lot of girls that were
in common that know it's a lie. That's heavy. Did you guys ever get caught with any contraband
or anything. We had a lot of drops like I told you that had what until you guys I had a cell
phone when I was in prison. Had it for a long time. I had it from November to July. And I felt
like that's why Dick Camilla he was an investigator. I felt like that's why he was following us. I
didn't know at first it was because DeMiro was living with an officer. I felt like he was following
us because he knew we had phones and he wanted to get the phones. And so we got rid of what we
didn't get rid of them. What happened was we buried them and we forgot what we buried them at.
They could not find them. We could find it. We tore up the woods so bad like if you walked back
there it looked like animals were there. Like there was holes everywhere. Have you ever seen
that movie holes. Oh yeah. That's what it was like. Two weeks digging. Trying to find the phones.
We could not find it. So it's like a free fraud. I mean it wouldn't be hard to like just go outside
and call somebody. Right. Like it's pretty easy to hide a phone. Or you could just be in your room
and call somebody. Really. So the most thing you have to worry about is somebody like your neighbor
or something like an iPhone or are we talking like a Nokia brick phone. No it's not like I had
like a phone. Yeah. Like a smartphone. Really. Where do you get the phone. People drop drops
and then you pick them up. When they come visit you and because we worked landscape outside facilities
like you know it's just free range you go on the road and they drop it you pick it up. Oh so they
just toss it somewhere in the grass or something. Who tosses it. People like whoever you ask. Oh like
people that you guys know that would come visit you. Right. I got it. I got it. Wow. Yeah I had a
I heard that drones would drop shit and sometimes into prisons. I don't know. Not in our maybe like
a fenced in prison like that would make sense. Yeah. Too much work for what you guys are doing.
It's too easy to just. Yeah. You could actually even meet somebody and just like here you know
literally like I remember one time we were driving and we saw this car and we know like
everybody that not people that work there but the cars that were there are allowed to be driving
around are all white. Okay. We're seeing one of our white and they have a number M something
like M4 M27. They're all tagged. But we saw like this golden van and he was probably dropping
something off for somebody but we followed him all the way like he was walking around there.
Did we follow him and he didn't drop nothing off. I'm pretty sure he ended up dropping something
because those girls in the articles took it and then somebody else snitched on them not about
taking the the drop but that there's been with officers because they got mad that their drop
got took. So there's no fences at this place. You could just like drive by in the camp. There's no
fences like the penitentiary's fenced in the medium fenced in and the low fenced in everything
else you can just drive and it's open complex you can just drive inside of it. That's crazy. And
people live there. There's a little boy that rides his bike. Like what lives on. He lives on the
complex. Yeah. He drives his bike. We used to drive right right next to him. What do you have
like a house? There's a house. There's houses everywhere. There's little kids play outside.
There's like little like play sets on the complex like right next to like the penitentiary actually.
Yeah. They brought up all the houses on the property and like they turned them into like the
male house or safety house, safety house, sort house, haunted house. They turned one of the houses
into a haunted house for the staff and their kids. And if you go in there it's like actually like a
haunted house. I remember we went in there one time. We're not loud in there but we went in there.
And I was scared because the floor shakes and everything. It's like there's like
clowns in the in the. So it's like a real deal. Yeah. She's scary though.
So girls would just like even though it was so wide open you could easily just walk off and
just disappear. And you don't. What would keep the girls from staying in and not running or just
leaving? Why? Why are we staying? Added five years to center. It's just like it's not that bad there.
It's really not. Yeah. So you might as well just do the time and get it get it behind you.
So what about the guys part of the camp that's there too? They don't have a camp at Coleman.
They have a low and they can go outside to like rec but they're still fenced in.
Right. It's nothing like where you guys are. So you could see them like when you're outside?
Really. I'm telling you like we used to mo. And they would they would cat call you and talk to you?
Yeah. Well see the perimeter they had perimeters there and if you got caught talking to them you
get in trouble. Yeah. Yeah. But they had perimeters. Like a lot of them will talk to us from there.
But usually they. They weren't like lined up pulling their pants down. So when you go inside
because it's like it's like the complex and then it's fenced. Well then there's a no man's land
where the inmates can't go into. So we have to go inside and mow it. But there's another fence
for where they're at like their wrecking stuff. When we're in there mowing you can see their
multi like literally if I'm on the weed eater I can look up and there'll be like a guy right here.
And all is blocking us is the wall in the window and he can talk to you. So they'll be lined up
in the multi and it's all glass windows. The multi is basically like a big room where they have
like computers and we just kind of hands out a lot of tables and I'll be there lined up with
signs and with a penis out. Like I would be embarrassed because a guy because like everybody
has it out. Right. And they're just all talking to you. They're all just next to each other with
their dicks out. Yeah. They're telling you to bounce on the mower. They're like. Yeah.
Oh what are the signs. They're literally like to call them. To write. Oh like call me or write.
Inmate numbers. Inmate numbers. A lot of them just want to talk to you. They're like barbarians
dude. It's bad. Just like literal like baboons. Yeah. I had a friend that she used to go in there
and do things on purpose like she'll suck her thumb. Just to like tease them. Right in front of them.
She'll suck her thumb. She'll play with her boobs. She will like bounce extra like because you're
already bouncing on the mower. Yeah. But she would like bounce extra. That's fucked. Those guys are
probably loving it. They are. You know they were. Yeah. What is the most fucked up thing either of
you guys saw the whole time you were in there. Like the one thing that's just like you cannot
unsee that. I feel like you got something Jesse. I mean just there was these two girls and I mean
it's it's not like unusual to see two girls going at it but the two girls that it was like these
very large girls and they were just going to it was bad. What were they doing. They were having sex.
Like what like scissoring each other. I don't even know. There was so much going on like it was
so much to get everywhere. Oh my. It was so bad. And where are they doing that in their room.
Yes. You just walk by and you see it going down. Yeah. You see it a lot and I think that's pretty
a tomb. And they contain lots of lesbians in there. Yeah. And they were not a lot actually. Not
even that they're lesbians. They're just doing it because they're inside. Right. A lot of girls
are just gay for the stay. Gay for the stay. Like I know this girl. She's still in prison. She got
shipped. She was only with her girlfriend because her girlfriend had money and will buy her a
commissary. Right. Put money in the books and stuff. Yeah. Exactly. And she'll like send money to her
family and everything. Really. Then we have officers. Some of them are not listed in there
but he will buy like McDonald's for the girls. Coffee in the morning. It's the little things in
life. Yeah. Like the thing is like we don't have that every day. So like a lot of girls take advantage
of it but it's like an officer will bring you coffee that you don't have inside. Right. You
kind of like you want more and like I don't know. It's like I never did anything with an officer
and I felt like I didn't have to because I had officers buy me things all the time
and I didn't do anything with them. Like I know I used to. So you were the exception.
Not that. Like I was the I worked at Unicorn and I was the distribution manager at Unicorn.
I had to oversee the whole warehouse. So like if they asked me to do something like if they need
a report like right there and then like I want you to bring me an Arizona like a mucho mango
Arizona and then I'll do it for you. And then they'll bring it to me. My bosses knew I had a phone
and they snitched on me. Really. Yeah. Like a lot of them like I grew bonds with my bosses.
I'm like it just kind of sucks because like you don't really like you kind of became friends with
them. Yeah. And it sucks because like you really can't like talk to them on outside because when
you leave. Yeah. At least not for like. Do you miss any of them. Do you miss them. Yeah. Really. Yeah.
Yeah. I miss my old bosses. One of them went to I don't know where he went. He went to a different
one. He was owning a female prisons for like a year and he said he hated it. He would rather work
with juveniles and he says they're the worst. They throw shit at you. Like literally shit.
Juveniles. Yeah. He says they were the worst but he rather work there because he said that he
knows what what women's consist of. Like he knows that a girl can say hey he did this and
that's it. He's done. Yeah. So he didn't want to be there. Right. Too much risk. Yeah.
But he didn't want to be there at all. I got really close to him. When I had my phone I was I got on
Facebook one time and put Merry Christmas and he was on my Facebook for some reason. I don't know
why and he told me to delete it because he's seen it and he knew I had a phone and I didn't.
But they were either your buddy or they knew that you knew something that would compromise them.
Yeah. Yeah. They really cared about you or they knew that if I get you fired or if I tell
on you you're going to take me down. Yeah. God that's crazy. Yeah. It's almost like
yeah. Like you always got a like you always got a target on your back. If you're a correctional
officer at the women's prison because like if any of them get pissed at you they can just
make up a story and get you axed. Not only like an officer like like I told you I was the manager
there and there's two girls they didn't like me at all and it's because they wanted my job.
And which I don't like I don't care about. It's a prison job. We got paid 13 cents an hour.
And like I don't I don't care about that. But they wanted it. And so she said that she was going
to send me to county and we all know what that means. She was going to say that I was going to
officer and she did say what that was the officer to get me sent to county and she did and I got
sent to the Camilla and he asked me and I told him no because I really wasn't and then that was it.
But like if he wanted to he could have took me to county and I could have got shipped
just because of something that somebody else said. Oh yeah that happens all the time. I got
sent to county for 40 days over this. Yeah. They just say like they can say you've seen it or that
they've seen you do it and you're going to county. That's it. Like no questions asked until you get
to county. Are there a lot of female correctional officers in there in the women's side? Yeah. No
it's not even. I feel like the female officers got to be bitches. Some of them are some of them
aren't some of them are not like we had one she was a cokehead like she did coke like bad bad
and she picked and choose who she wanted like you can't go to other units. So I would I live in F3
and they live in F2. So if I wanted to go F2 I had to go out of bounds and I can get in trouble.
So it all depends on the officers like I thought when she caught me that's it like I was getting a
shot but she didn't like she just said I know you're not from this unit so you owe me one basically
that's what she told me. What does that mean? Like if she wants she wants me to do something I gotta
do for her afterwards basically. It might be something stupid like it might be like like help her
take another inmate down or okay like do like extra work for her like do something like stupid.
Yeah too mucho mangos. But it would be like stuff like that and then we had some officers
didn't care if he went out of bounds. Yeah. Like on the Christmas party was it Christmas New Year's
party? The officer came upstairs and straight up told us that he didn't care. He knew we were all out
of bounds. He just wanted us to stay inside to the cameras. Off camera. He said stay off camera so
that's it. I can't see them being assholes. We had some. Really? We had uh like trying to like
like trying to assert their dominance or authority. They do. Like a female. Really?
Yeah Mr. Simba Bones. The white one was at him. I was scared of him and I was only scared because
I had a phone and he was so sneaky like he was like he wanted to catch somebody to do something.
He would hold his keys because when they walk their keys dangle so you can hear them coming.
So he would hold his key so you can hear him and he would like look over like he would go
in somebody else's cubicle and look over the wall to see what you were doing. Like he was creepy.
He was creepy. We were about to fill up. So he uh walked if you we can't like wash our clothes
by hands and dry them. So if you were like washing your panties he will walk in your room
and grab your panties with a pencil and walk around the whole unit with them during count.
Yeah I swear he was creepy. Just so like embarrass you or just because he was weird.
Just to be weird. Like if somebody would if he was in there I would have believed it
because he was weird. Yeah he was super creepy. But the women push him out like yeah they know
what to say. They get you out. They get the officer out. They don't like you like you're not
gonna last. Like the mean ones don't ask because they write cop outs. I'm serious. They write like
papers and then they send it to like the warden and like the higher authorities lying. Wow.
So the women really do run the prison. Pretty much. Yeah that's wild. Pretty much. They're like
yeah the girl offers you don't even like being with us. Like nobody likes I feel like their worst
part of the day is working at the camp. Nobody likes working at the camp. No. No they don't.
They hate it. But even if it was all women like you still have that issue too because there was
female guards having relationships too. Yeah with women. Yeah officers having relationship with
females. Really. Yeah. Are there any women. Yeah are there any. In that case. No. No there's
one. Seven men. Yeah. Seven male officers. There was a my old monkey. She was in a relationship with
a female there. Really. And I knew about it. Like I used to buy when she left I would buy her
girlfriend like candies and share from the commissary. I don't know why because she can get
it herself. She's an officer but I used to do it. Are you guys allowed to stay in touch or do you
stay in touch with anybody that's in. We're not allowed to stay in touch. You're not allowed to
because you're on probation or whatever. Yeah. But you would though because you made some friends.
Yeah I made some pretty good friends and like my case like I've asked my probation officer
to talk to a lot of the girls. So I'm sure it helps them too. Like I'm sure like giving them some
sort of like inspiration for when they get out or keeping in touch with them really helps them.
Yeah just that support. Yeah definitely. So it's the one way in there. Yeah because like in there
like we really didn't have anybody beside each other like in there. So it's kind of like how can
you like lose that bond. Yeah for sure. I don't have a video of my phone but I used to have videos
when I had my phone of the camp. I used to take videos of like the girls on the gators.
You mean when you were in there you were videoing with the phones? Yeah.
You could have started like your own YouTube channel. I could have but I probably would have not.
That's so funny. Hey guys it's Dulce. Just on the gator hog hunt in today.
But they made we made trails in there. We used to go in the gators and like I will videotape. I'm
in a truck listening to music and somebody else is driving and I'll videotape the girls on the
trails like just going through the woods and stuff. Yeah. Then one of the trails led you to
like this big old field of nothing and the girls used to go there and smoke cigarettes and I got
all that on video too. What else? It's not because I like I wasn't doing it to like be vindictive or
anything but I thought it was cool and I was showing my family like look this is what this is
don't worry this is where I'm at. We're good. You're studying your family videos of you guys.
Yeah. Fucking around on the gators. Yeah. That's hilarious. We're cutting wood and stuff. I remember
one time cutting wood. Yeah. We had a split wood split wood splitters. One time we were there
and I had like it was really bad. We were at the woods head and this is where we used to bury
our phones out. This is why we lost the phones because we had to switch the location. We were there
and I had about a feeling like I was telling the girls to sleep so we buried the phones inside
the dirt and it wasn't really covered. If you would have kicked it you could have found the back
and when we had left we left we told our boss because he knew we had them. We came back we
told him that we're going to go cut grass. So we get on our mowers and as soon as I go down the
road the wood tent is like over here and I see like canines and decamela everybody's at the wood
tent looking for something. They brought canines and I'm pretty sure they're looking for drugs
because the canine was there but like they didn't find nothing. They didn't find cigarette butts
and like that's everywhere at the wood tent because that's what they did was smoke cigarettes.
And lately we missed them by like a minute. Like they would have pulled up to us on our phones.
Damn. What would have happened if they would have pulled up and you guys were doing that?
We probably would have got in trouble. No we would have got in trouble like a lot of trouble.
We probably would have like county. It depends because they can if they want to.
They can charge. It depends what kind of officer it was right. No decamela is sending you to the
county. He's head of SIS so he's definitely yeah you're in trouble. But it depends like they can
you can just lose good days or you can get a whole new charge for the contraband. It depends on
what they want to do. Damn. But then like one of the girls on the thingy she her co-defendants in
the medium. One of the girls on the lawsuit. Yeah her co-defendants in the medium and they've had
bags like bags like big pounds of bags of tobacco dropped off buried in the woods. It's probably
still there because she was too chicken to bring it inside the medium and they were supposed to
throw it over the fence for the guys to get it. It was tobacco. It was a suboxone cigarettes.
They had officers that they knew that are not in there that they would sleep with bring
cigarette packets to their boyfriends or their friends in the medium and the low.
Yeah. Damn. It's like that. That's heavy. And I felt like I'm saying like they pick and choose
like they sleep they sleep with these officers and everything's okay. But once they get mad
they want to do the lawsuit because the same girls sleep with so much more officers
and one of them wasn't even sleeping with them at all. She just said she was.
So what do you think happens to this lawsuit in these girls and so you think they
do they get anything? I feel like they're gonna get something but I feel like they shouldn't
like they really shouldn't. Yeah either way they're gonna get something because yeah definitely
because those officers broke the law by by by engaging in that relationship with those girls
in the first place. But not all of them were in it like the girl Kira she never slept with
those officers at all. She wasn't forced to like we were landscaping together
and they didn't like her like I know because I was cool with bosses. They did not like her
and then she said something in her statement. She said that one of the men tried to sleep with her.
That who did? The man was our boss at landscape. Okay. She said that he tried to sleep with her.
Okay. And she said it in there and that she got she got fired because Klater and
Phillips. No Van and Phillips I thought. No she said that she got fired because
Phillips and Klater tried to force her to sleep with Van and that she got fired because she wouldn't.
Van and Phillips don't even like each other so I would Phillips be helping Van.
I would he be forcing her to sleep with Van if they don't like each other. Right. So it's like
I mean it's like they despise each other. They don't even speak to each other when they pass each
other so. They don't like each other at all and then like Kira she would uh we'll be in a car with
Van. And one time the Batwing got stuck. So who is Van? One of the guys in the. One of the correction
officers. Yes. Who's our boss at landscape. Okay. One time the Batwing got stuck in a sinkhole.
We have sinkholes in there. What's the Batwing? Tractor. Okay. And mower. Okay. We got stuck in
the sinkhole so we had to get the is it called the cat or is it called something else? A friend
and loader. We had to get that to pull it out so we had to have Van there because we're way off
like we're out of bounds like completely out of bounds so we had to get him to help us pull it.
And she was in he was in the car and I was in there and two other girls were in there
and like she's like sure to making comments like like how how good she can get him head
and how like making comments like throwing herself at him. Really? Yes. Like in front of
all of she didn't care she was laughing off thinking it was cute and he's looking at her like
like she was disgusting and then she's gonna say that that and it didn't happen like she threw
herself at him so many times. How old is this girl? She's like 32 maybe.
And how old is this guy Van? Like 15. He's just like 40 something. He looks. I don't know he's
he had to retire like he was at retiring point he only had a year left. Really? So he was an older
dude. Yeah. And he was still just like ew lady like stop. Yeah because she was like way coming
on to him like way like she was like making it known that she wanted to do with him. Which is
probably why she said what she said in the lawsuit because he didn't. You think she's kind of like
resentful that none of the prison guards wanted any wanted her? Yeah like she was she was really
skinny and she like she came on to them like she got kicked out of Tallahassee she got shipped
in Tallahassee because she had a relationship with a lieutenant and like she told me like it was a
full-blown relationship she was in contact with him everything afterwards and then she came to
come in where everybody's doing it so she wanted to do it to get things so but like nobody did it.
I think maybe she had a relationship. So she's pissed. Yeah well she was mad because she got fired
because working at landscaping you have more privilege you can go more places
and so she used to go to the medium and mow the same the same piece of grass every day like that
grass was dead like it was like dead dead. She's just mowing it every day. Every day the same spot
like that's so obvious just to see her boyfriend that was in there like I think he has like life
or something. Yeah I think he does. But when she got fired that's when she did that like she wanted
revenge because she got fired because now she can't see her boyfriend anymore. God that's such a
fucked up situation. Yeah and I think that she even said because she's due to get out soon right?
Yeah. That if she can't get a time cut she wants it for her boyfriend that has life
over this lawsuit. So wait they can get in an exchange instead of getting money from the settlement
they can get time cut? Really? I didn't see that in the article. And she wants to give the time cut
to her boyfriend. Yeah now they're gonna do that. They're not gonna do that. They don't do stuff like
that. No but she wanted to that's what she was doing it and then I had Amanda a couple of days
before I left. She told me that she was gonna bring them down. She said she was gonna bring
Van down, Phillips down, Cleared her down, everybody down because she was mad that she got
fired. She got fired. And she was fired because they messed up a more like they ran over like
some they ran over something and the paint got everywhere and the tire was messed up
and it was just bad and they knew like like the head boss not Van but like the head head boss
knew that she was picking up drops that she was planning to bring it to the medium that
she had a phone like they knew she wasn't really working that she was just there for the extra
privilege. So she got mad that she got fired and she did it. Then the whole like I'm surprised
like officer Lieutenant Gonzalez he's a lieutenant at the penitentiary. I'm surprised he's in there
because like when I left they were good like we used to meet him to get pastries down the road
and she used to like she wanted she volunteered to work at the penitentiary so she can be with him
because he didn't work at the camp. So I'm surprised that he was even involved in the lawsuit
and her friend Rebecca she's in there. Rebecca he used to give Rebecca information about her
when she because Amanda went to county over it so when she was in county he's lieutenant he knows
so he will come get Rebecca in the morning and tell her information about Amanda because
that he knew. So I'm surprised they even threw him another bus. That's insane. So a lot of these
a lot of these officers are completely innocent is what you're saying. They're not completely
innocent because they didn't have sex. Yeah. Oh so all of them did. Okay got you. All of them did
which I don't know about well the majority of them did but not to all the females like I
doubt like if you were to see some of the girls and that in the lawsuit. Yes if you were to see them
you'll be like no way no. If you're gonna take it from somebody if you're gonna throw them down
and take it it's gonna be somebody that you know is appealing right. Right the cream of the crop.
Right. Like you're not like like Irsini she's like her stomach touches the floor.
And she's in the lawsuit. Yes and she told us straight up that she like she was over being in
prison she was in there for forever not really forever I think she was like seven years. She had
five years and somehow she got re-indicted like while she was in prison I don't I've never even
heard of that but she ended up with I think 15 years total but she was a liar so I don't know
she probably has 15 years to begin with. She said she had money overseas which was a lie she had all
these things. She was a mortgage broker and there for fraud and she was also a lawyer. No she said
she was a lawyer. I'm saying she was also a lawyer. A lawyer. She was a lawyer and a mortgage broker
that was in there for fraud. Yeah and she used to do people's which is uh like that's like a crime
itself but she's like she can't run a business in prison. She used to uh do people's paperwork.
Yeah and files 2255. Yeah and they would all get denied but she was and she would charge them
like hundreds of dollars to do it and no I'll come back tonight everything with them because she's
not a real lawyer but like I doubt an officer touched her and she said it um who else was it?
Maggie. Maggie Leon. I don't think so either. I don't think that it was. What's up with Maggie?
It's just the way she. Oh speaking of Maggie is she actually so there was that she worked in um
welding? She was the wasn't she the the two-room clerk in welding. So there was another girl that
worked in welding and um she found a book where Maggie had written in it and it said uh it was
it was like comments that she was gonna say uh about the officer what they did and it's like
it was basically notes what she was going to say in this lawsuit. The story she was giving.
Yes. And so what somebody found the book? Yes. And then what? When the word got out that she found
it she got like punished. No nothing happened to her. They thought the girl was lying. Yeah.
I found the notebook is what happened so nothing ever happened. It sounds crazy. It is crazy. Is
this notebook like evidence in the lawsuit at all? Are they using it? No I've got it. They thought
the girl was lying about it. Really? Yeah. I'm pretty sure Maggie got rid of it after that.
Somebody got rid of it. Yeah definitely. And there was another girl she's out already. She was
looking for a way out. Her daughter like was sick. Um I doubt she's with any officer. She probably
said it at the time because she wanted time cut. She ended up getting time cut afterwards but I
don't think. She got a compassionate release because her daughter was sick. Trump let her out.
Trump let her out? Yeah. Really? Wow. At least she had like a couple months for her daughter for
she died. Yeah it was nice. Speaking of legit businesses. Do you remember when you guys like
that girl that did the massages? One tooth wonder. Oh the Natasha? Natasha one tooth wonder. So I
think it was my birthday or something and uh they gave me a voucher for a free massage. She did
vaginal. Massages. I never turned it in. No. She didn't. Saving it for a rainy day. No.
Took a rain check on the vaginal wall massage. It's because like we did it like I'm like it was a
gag gift. It was a gag. We knew. If you've seen this chick like literally she has one tooth like.
But she really did do these massages. Did she really? Yeah. And people took her up on them?
Yep. Wow. Yeah. It sounds nuts. It really does. It sounds. It sounds like a free for all. Yeah it
sounds like a free for all. Like way gnarlier even like gnarlier than the Orange is the New Black
Show. It definitely is orange. It's talking. They don't have nothing on Coleman. Really? Nothing on
Coleman. No I don't like it. Coleman needs its own show. It really does. Damn. We gotta smuggle a
we gotta get smuggle a video camera in there. Let them start like turning it like. It won't be hard.
It won't. The other day I was on Facebook and I saw the same thing I used to do. That's how I knew.
But there was this girl and she was taking pictures inside her cubicle on her bunk with
the sheet up. Like bro you're so retarded. Like you're gonna get caught. Like officers check our
Facebook. Do they really? Yes. Like I told you you checked my status. I didn't post pictures of
me in prison. I do now because I'm gone. So like I'm bored. Like I'll post a picture
like when I was in prison and the other prisoners know that I had a phone now but they didn't know
right then yeah. But she posted a picture in her bunk like in her cubicle like wearing her
grave right in her grave. You can see the brick wall with the bunk beds and like with her little
flashlight. Like you can tell yeah the book light and her sheets up like you can see it in the picture.
Oh my god. It's crazy. Are you guys worried about like any of these girls like coming after you
or anything for speaking out against them? I wrote Amanda on Facebook because I wrote about this.
No I didn't tell her I was doing this. I caught her a liar. I told her she was a liar and if her
baby daddy and her co-defendant knew that like basically like she was like snitch and she blocked
me. She blocked you on Facebook? Yeah she blocked me. So I wrote her from fake big book too and she
still blocked me. But she's not worried about it because I mean like I said the truth is the truth
right. What can you do like what are you gonna do? Yeah it's not only us like I had a girl
that said basically like she posted the article too and she said that if the feds were to come and
get her to for her to testify on their behalf she would like she would go yeah she would go and say
like your honor like these girls are lying like I'm here. What if the feds came to you guys and asked
you guys to testify on their behalf would you? Like I would say they're lying yeah I'll say they're
lying because they are lying. I don't feel like they should get money because it's a lie. I mean
they did have sex but the whole like the whole like I'm fear of being trapped I'm fear of corners
I'm scared of being alone like all that is a lie. Right they play it up to the fullest. They're making
like more mental trauma so they can get more money. Yeah they're making it they're making a way
crazier story of it making it seem like it was something that was not right. Well damn. We'll
have to touch base when the case is over or something and see how that turns out. Yeah for
sure. How long does that like go on for you think? I don't know. Mine. How long has it been going for?
Yeah how long when did it start? You know did it start when the article was posted or? I think
that it came out when the art like you know that's when it but um no before that because it was this
was going on when I was still locked up and that was months ago. Yeah. Almost a year ago. Wow.
So I'm sure this stuff could go on for years. Right I'm sure that whole process takes a long
time. Yeah I'm pretty sure. Well thank you guys for doing that. Thank you guys for coming on here
and and uh telling your stories and and exposing the truth to the uh this whole fiasco that's going
on inside the prison camps with the rape scandals and let's do a part two eventually. Yeah when
this thing wraps up let's let's follow back up. Definitely. Cool thanks for coming. Thanks girls.
Good night everybody.
