Hello world, Sean Atwood is the infamous author and activist who is banned from America for
life.
Sean made millions in the stock market in his early 20s and by his 30s he was running
one of the biggest ecstasy empires in the US, smuggling more than $4 million worth of drugs
into Arizona before he was raided and sentenced to 200 years in prison.
Sean's biggest competitor in the ecstasy business was the mafia mass murderer Sammy
the Bull Gravano, whom we talk about on this episode.
We also talk about Sean's views on insider stock market trading as well as the recent
stuff going on with Reddit, Robinhood, and GameStop.
Sean has also done more research on the Epstein conspiracies than probably anyone.
He's done hundreds of interviews with his victims and acquaintances and he talks about
his latest discoveries in the subject towards the end of this podcast.
This conversation is packed with gems and I hope you guys enjoy.
Please welcome Sean Atwood.
Sean, what's your opinion on the case of the mafia mass murderer, Sammy Atwood?
Well, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But they estimate in this country, I think, that thousands of people have died who have
things wrong with them, who can't get in hospital because of the corona.
Yeah, that's insane.
I've got his picture up there right behind me, the big guy.
In the yellow shirt, that's him?
That's him.
Yeah.
He was the one who we went to America and he introduced me to all the mafia figures.
That's how I got the criminal enterprise going because he's a big tough guy versus
me, you know, just the skinny, nerdy business guy.
So he opened that door into that world for me to set up the criminal enterprise.
And when the SWAT team came, he was right there with me protecting me, you know, in
the neo-Nazi jail.
He's a very good person to get arrested with because he was running around that jail.
When we got off the bus, there was like 13 co-defendants.
You're arriving at Sheriff Joe Arpaio's Madison Street Jail horseshoe section.
This is like a horseshoe formation of cells where you go in and you first get processed.
And it's like Dante's Inferno in there.
You are sardined into these cells.
Everyone just sat on the floor squatting down.
You try and get in there, maybe there's a little bit of room near the toilet and the
reason there's the room near the toilet is because there's piss all over there and it's
stinks of shit.
So you sit down there and then some big dude just gets on the toilet and takes a crap and
the whole cell, everyone's just like this, holding their noses and they're all yelling,
drop one flush one, drop one flush one, because those toilets are really powerful, man.
You press that button and it almost sucks your arse off.
It's like a bee day spraying all this water right into your butt crack.
So when you take a shit, the prison rule is drop one flush one.
So as soon as that log hits that fucking water, you're like, but anyway, in a cell, you know,
like that as those logs are dropping, the whole cell just stinks.
And because it's the newly arrested people, you've got people who've been in like fights
with the cops, people have been tasered and injured.
You've got gang bangers from different street locations who are KOS on site.
You've got homeless people.
You got people just fucked up on alcohol, fucked up on drugs.
A lot of people going through the shock of the newly incarcerated is just mayhem.
When those gang bangers come in who are like from rival neighborhoods, right away, it just
kicks off and there's blood splatter.
Then the guards come in, they dragged the assailants out and if they're kicking off,
they put them in this thing called a restraint chair and it looks like a medieval torture
device.
It is a black chair tilted back and they strap you into it, all of your limbs.
And if you like a mouth enough or spitting, they put a spit hood on your head and you
see people in these, these, these chairs just rocking back and forth and like howling like
cats and shit like that, like mental patients.
So anyway, this is the absolute bedlam.
We arrived that shortly after we were all SWAT team raided May 16th, 2002, I said I had about
200 people working for me on one of the previous interviews I did with you and they started
to arrest those people in groups.
So they had the continuous criminal enterprise, you know, the crime family, they had like
a pecking order.
Now I was at the top, wild woman was number two, wild man's girlfriend and wild man was
number three.
So they had wild woman above wild man.
She was as tough as he was, man, if some people were more scared of her than him, seriously,
their relationship, it's, it's, you know, it's terrible that domestic violence exists
in the world, but their relationship was based on domestic violence.
You know, I saw, I saw the fight is sometimes he'd hit her, she'd grab a knife, stab him
in the belly.
Sometimes they'd both be in hospital, but they were like cave people.
I was saying, you guys are going to kill each other one of these days and then the very
next day after having these fights, they'd be like, love you, love you, and it was all
about the makeup sex completely off the scale.
So wild woman, I'm setting the scene for what happens still when we get out of this van.
Wild woman is from Liverpool.
The accident is so thick in Liverpool.
They said that if there was, if it had gone to trial in Arizona, they would have had to
get her an interpreter.
So I'll give you an example.
Yeah, I'll give you an example.
Have you any idea what that means?
No.
Yeah, I'll give you an example.
What does that mean?
What are you saying?
That means here you are, my lad.
Give me a cigarette.
La is like mate.
So she's like, yeah, I like it.
So anyway, she was totally battle-hardened, man.
She was a big woman at one point in time, but she'd been hammering the crystal meth and
she was only tiny, but she was as tough as fuck.
I mean, I'll tell you a story in a minute about what happened to the women when they
actually got in there.
So we're all getting out of this van.
I told you previously about the SWAT team raid.
What happened next was they took us all to Tempe police station.
They built this outdoor processing center specifically for me and my co-defendants.
So we're all getting processes at this outdoor processing center.
Then they start filtering us over to Tempe Jail.
In Tempe Jail, I'm realizing the gravity of the situation because more, I'm thinking
right, you know, they've raided my house.
I quit trafficking a year ago.
There's no drugs.
What can they do?
Maybe they can release me, but as more people started to show up at the jail, I'll give you
another example.
One of my co-defendants, Cody Bates, mentioned previously that he's no longer with us.
He was ended up in a Scientologist rehab where they put him on antidepressants, which had
a side effect of killing himself and he killed himself.
It's documented.
The lawsuit is online if people want to look that up.
Scientologist rehab?
Yeah, yeah.
Where?
I don't know.
Don't know.
It's probably Arizona or California, I imagine.
So Cody Bates shows up.
Cody Bates was my right-hand man in charge of sensible things because he never got high.
But after we all got arrested, he got so depressed, he went straight to heroin, hence he ended
up in the rehab where he hung himself.
So Cody Bates shows up and this other guy shows up.
I'll just call him the DJ and we're sharing our arrest stories.
So I tell them, you know, bam, bam, bam, bam, door flies off the hinges, SWAT team raid.
Cody Bates is driving along the freeway and he looks up in the morning and sees the helicopter
and he thinks, this is a bit strange everywhere I'm going.
There seems to be a helicopter.
It's like that scene in Goodfellas.
In the afternoon, he's looking up and lo and behold, he's been driving.
He's scared to go anywhere.
He's just driving.
He doesn't want to stop.
So he's driving to Phoenix, Tempe, Mesa, going up and down these freeways.
Afternoon, lo and behold, helicopter.
Next thing, he sees like a motorcade of police cars and police motorbikes and they all just
He's got motorbikes all around him, cars, and they just take him off the road.
That's how he got busted.
Now, the DJ, it was his first day at his brand new job as a fundraiser, as a fundraiser
for the Republican Party.
He shows up and they come in his workplace and arrest him.
So I imagine that was the end of that.
All right.
So all day long, we are just like sharing stories at the Tempe jail and then there comes a point
in time where the van comes to take us to Sheriff Joe Alpio's horseshoe and I'd heard
stories about the horseshoe from Wildman previously because he'd been deported multiple
times.
He was a minister of society and it would always end up with him in the horseshoe and
it's a horseshoe formation.
You go in, you go through the cells.
You don't know whether it's night or day because it's underground, but the walls do
heat up so you can detect when it's midday and you come out at the very end and they
give you a classification minimum, medium, max security, give you black and white stripes
and you get on your way.
So I knew some stories about the horseshoe.
Wildman said last time he was in, they wouldn't give him his name.
He was in there for days and you can't sleep because you're so sardine into those cells.
So we get in the van and I finally see Wildman for the first time since my arrest and he
said that when he was in the Tempe jail, they were trying to interview my girlfriend, Claudia,
and he was walking past and he heard him say, these are very serious charges you're
facing.
You need to tell us about Atwood and somehow he broke free of the policeman that was taking
him to wherever he was taking from.
Managed to get, stick his head in the room where Claudia was getting interrogated and
goes, serious fucking charges, my fucking arse, don't listen to these daft pig bastards
Claudia.
And then he just goes, and he had this big fuck off Vikings beard and he's been up for
days on smoking crack and crystal meth and he just looks like an absolute maniac.
So we're in the van sharing our arrest stories and speaking to the females now because the
females are with us.
First group was about 13 co-defendants, about half female.
So when we get to the Madison street jail, there's like a ladder steps coming out the
van and the transportation officers tell the women's cow first.
Now there's a huge line of people waiting to go into the jail.
These are all like the new arrestees like I described earlier.
People you know, I've just been in altercations with the police.
People who are drunk, people who are high, people who've been tasered, people who've
got injuries and as they see these women coming off the van, this big line of men turns round
and starts heckling the women and I can't remember specifically what they were saying
but it was of a sexual nature.
So the women, you know, while woman is very tough was just, you know, just look at these
guys like assessing the situation.
But the other women look like they were really feeling really insulted and disrespected.
So then the men start to get out of the van and the guards are yelling everybody to get
down these steps very quickly.
So while man just stops on the top step and the cops telling him to get down, he just
doesn't move and he raises his vikings beard and he opens his eyes really wide and he looks
at all of the men heckling the women and he goes, hey, that there's my fucking woman.
I'll have fucking any of you guys when we get inside there in a couple of minutes because
that's where we're all fucking going.
If you guys don't shut the fuck up right now, you're going to see what's going to happen
to you and they all just shut the fuck up right away.
Holy shit, he was a good man to get arrested with.
Yeah, he was 28 stone by the end of it and one stone is 14 pounds, I believe.
What did you say it was 28 stone?
That was his weight.
Let me just tell you 14 times 28.
So he was he was 400 pounds in weight and six foot two.
Oh my God, his fists were twice the size of mine.
And it was just all human teeth marks all the way along them.
Now, it might be it might be an interested subject going might be Sammy Devolt because
he's on YouTube now and all of anything with him on it is going viral.
What was the what was the story behind all that?
Let's let's get into that.
Let me just tell you one more thing.
So we had a guy working for us called let's say Hanson Mark.
And he started working for the Gravano Enterprise.
So he was playing both sides.
And one of our customers gave Hanson Mark money for a thousand ecstasy.
But Hanson Mark went and got it off the Gravano Enterprise instead of us.
Not only that, he was pulled over by the feds and the pills were confiscated.
So then the customer comes to us.
Well, she went to Wildman first.
I hadn't authorized what he'd done.
He just went and did it himself.
So she goes to Wildman says, look, just gave, you know, one of your guys
10 plus thousand is saying that he got pulled over.
There's no pills.
There's nothing he could do about it.
So Wildman went and paid him a visit.
And Wildman just like, he only needs to punch someone once.
He would usually knock them out.
So in this case, he punched the guy and ended up with the guy's tooth stuck in between two of
his knuckles.
So by the time I get there, he's explaining, you know, I've just,
this guy was fucking going through Sammy the ball.
This is why I'm just the people who go through Sammy the ball.
He's showing me he's, he's fucking, he's damaged, he's damaged fist.
Was the tooth still like dangling out of his flesh?
It wasn't still dangling, but his knuckles were all fucked up.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
By the time I got up there, it was, it was later.
So one of the people Wildman was going to retaliate against online was Sammy the ball
because of what he said.
And basically, you know, I got trolled a lot last year as my channel has grown,
as if the more about Epstein and sexual abuse and exposing the elites,
the trolls are getting more organized against me.
Yeah, you're, you're, you're in this sort of like weird universe of conspiratorial
shit that most people don't know is exists.
And then some people are aware of it.
They think, oh, you're just, you, if you look that deep into something, you're,
you're a fucking cuckoo.
Or it's just like you're in this like, this weird little world of like underground
criminal conspiracy stuff.
So it's easy, I think to put you in a certain category, just like write you off.
So the trolls contacted everybody from my past life to try and find holes in my story.
They contacted my prosecutor.
They contacted Sammy the ball.
They've contacted all of my ex-girlfriends.
They've contacted everybody I've ever written about or put a photo up about,
or anybody they could find a photo of me with a social media.
They've contacted all of my podcast guests.
They've contacted, I mean, this is just like insanity.
These people have, these mentally ill people have so much time on their hands.
And it's insane.
So obviously they contacted Sammy the ball and said, look, you know, Sean Atwood,
he's made his career off, you know, by talking shit about you.
Are you going to do something about it?
So Sammy the ball got on a camera and said, this Sean Atwood, he's, you know,
if you fuck, I'm hearing, he's a journalist and he's a TV guy in England.
He's saying he's built his career off of my name.
I don't, you know, I've never heard of the guy.
He's full of shit.
And if I had a bumped heads with him in Arizona,
I'd be picking his bones out of my teeth.
That's sort of what happens to him.
So, so anyway, I had to laugh and I'd like to set the record straight right now
about this Sammy the ball situation.
And this is a clip that I think will do really good for you because this is so viral.
And first thing I'd like to say is I had so many aliases
when I was running my ecstasy enterprise, the prosecutor said she couldn't even
put them all on my grand jury indictment.
So if someone says to Sammy the ball, who's the Sean Atwood guy,
how the hell is he going to know who Sean Atwood is?
Because I was just a shadowy figure running this thing without my real name ever being
known to anybody.
So that's the first thing I'd like to say.
Second thing I'd like to say is I love Sammy the ball's YouTube channel.
I've sent so many people over there.
He is a master storyteller.
Reminds me of two Tonys who protected me in prison.
There are so many people out there who can't tell a story and he is I'm riveted.
I've been watching it and he's part of a generation.
And there's not many of that generation still alive.
These iconic Italian mafia figures.
So, you know, hats off to him for that.
Next thing I'd like to say is that they handcuffed Wildman to Gerard Gravano in
Towers Jail in 2002, 2003, which is Sammy the ball's son.
Now on the streets, you know, a lot of people have been saying they were working for the
ball for Sammy.
And I think I previously gave you my story of the guys I met in Tucson, who my bisexual,
lesbian, porn star wife was dating one of their girlfriends.
We met them.
I sat down with them and I said it's the fence we need to worry about, not each other.
You guys are lighting the place up.
You know, we need you need to chill.
And there's plenty of demand for XC we could coexist.
The piece didn't last long.
My top sales guy Skinner.
One click from the Gravano enterprise enticed him to a nightclub in Scottsdale under the
pretext of doing a deal with him.
They took him into the men's room and knocked his teeth out and took all of his money and
all of his drugs.
And after that, I moved on to that property, Sinvacas, Catalina Foothills, Tucson, Arizona,
and the Gated Guarded Community.
So, you know, as an added layer of protection against Gravano's crew, at the same time,
I had a female who had penetrated into the Gravano household, was attending barbecues
over there, was giving me, you know, the layout.
We did some drive-bys on the street and telling me about, you know, the associates,
what they looked like and who was over there.
You know, all these steroid head jock guys in the train and the track suits.
Sports were at these barbecues with the Gravano's.
So, that's where it was at on the streets with the Gravano's.
And people are saying, because Sammy the Bulls said I'm full of shit, he never knew me,
I'm completely making all of this up.
But if you go to the police reports or if you go to the Phoenix New Times article,
it says that I was Sammy the Bulls competitor in the ecstasy market.
And I was established for so long that because I'd done it for years,
Gravano just came in, lit the place up, got arrested.
I made him look like a flash in the pan.
Now, that's coming from the cops and the local media.
And people can, you know, verify that independently.
Sammy has recently said that he wasn't even running the ecstasy enterprise.
So, the question is, were all these people working for the Gravano enterprise,
just throwing his name out there saying he was the boss?
Or, you know, were they actually working for him?
And for whatever legal reasons, he's unable to say that.
Back to Towers Jail 2002-2003.
So, Sammy the Bulls crew, they get arrested a couple of years before my crew.
I'm like, thanks, cops.
You just wiped out the competition.
But all those resources that were on Gravano were then put onto me.
May 16, 2002.
That was when the SWAT team came.
So, they are running through the court process a couple of years before we are.
So, when the guards knowingly chained Gerard Gravano to Wildman,
they did that on purpose because they wanted to see what would happen.
They knew there was two crews that had beef on the streets.
Now, Wildman looks at me like, what should I do?
And I said, because, you know, we don't want to get any more charges.
These guys have probably got some good legal information for us.
They're ahead of the curve on this.
They've been going through this for a couple of years.
We should just sit down with him, find out what the tricks are,
the prosecutors are playing on them, you know, and how all this shit works.
And that's what we did.
We sat there all night with Sammy the Bulls son before we went to our court hearing.
We were fine with him, and I'm fine with him to this day.
And the trolls have contacted him too, but he has acknowledged that he does know who I am.
And he was sentenced for, as one of the dominant leaders of the XC ring.
So, it's, you know, it's 100% that Gerard Gravano was near the top of whoever was running the XC ring,
whoever the dad was, or whoever he wasn't.
And prior to us meeting Gerard in the jail,
my homie, G-Dog, who I told you last time he introduced me to his brothers in La Emma,
where they had the rocket-smell grenade launcher on the TV.
G-Dog had, I don't know if he'd been a cellmate with Gerard Gravano,
or he'd gone to interview himself previously and spoke to him
when they first got arrested, this was.
And said, look, you know, don't fuck with English Sean and Peter,
because we've got his back.
So that's how they knew who was protecting us, or at least Gerard did.
And then, you know, down the road, I've kept in touch with him on email.
It's been, it's been years now since we had any last communication.
But those guys all went to Hollywood, they're doing the straight and narrow thing.
Mob Wives became that hit TV show.
So, you know, kudos to Karen Gravano for pulling that off.
And I've read her book, and I love her book.
And I think what they're doing right now is they're on the positive track.
I offered to pay for Sammy de Bol Gravano to fly to London,
so we could sit down and have a podcast recorded professionally here in London.
That would have been a huge thing.
And people said, well, you only said that because, you know,
he can't travel because he's got this criminal record.
But we did the same thing with John Elite, mafia hitman for the Gambino's.
You know, he admits to being involved in multiple murders.
And he came to the UK and me and Wildman sat down with him.
And that's one of the most watched videos on the channel.
So that offer is still open.
If Sammy de Bol wants to come to London, we would love to sit down with him
and get this filmed professionally.
And if he's got any questions for me,
I'd like to set that record straight because I'm not full of shit.
It's fully documented what we've done.
And there's, you know, the police recently,
I had to re get my story re verified through a TV company.
I'm doing something with it was already verified by National Geographic.
They had to see my paperwork in the beginning of the lock up abroad.
And I'm looking at the paperwork recently.
It's, you know, it's right there about some of the witness statements,
the 10 witness statements that led to me getting arrested
were people who were playing both sides.
And oh, they were just working for Sammy,
but then they told the cops they were working for me
and started to give them all this information
up hoping to reduce their own sentences.
All 57 of Sammy de Bol's code defendants agreed to cooperate.
We had over a hundred and only four agreed to cooperate
because we were tight.
Wow.
Yeah, that's fucking insane.
That would be a great conversation,
if you're like between you and him to big competing ecstasy enterprises
back in the back in the same era in Arizona.
That would be an amazing, has he, has he answered you at all?
Has, have you reached, you've reached out to him, obviously, has he responded?
Yeah, I reached out to him through a person who represents him
rather than doing any silly online stuff.
And that person said presently, he's not going to do it.
Really?
Yeah, but he said he's focused on his channel
and his channel is doing great.
And if you like those old school mafia stories,
you know, dark tales of blood and guts with Gallo's humor,
I urge people to go over to Sammy de Bol's channel
and check those stories out.
Couldn't you guys just do one of these zoom things?
Yeah, but it's not, you know,
all my zoom things have not been as effective in terms of reach
versus having my camera crew there.
Yeah, they're not the same.
They're just not like it's, it's really weird.
You can't really like connect and build like a rapport with somebody
and they don't like naturally last as long.
Like podcasts, people come in the studio,
they always go over two hours, two and a half hours, no problem.
But when it's like this, like we always hit a wall for some reason,
no matter who I'm talking to on the computer.
Start at a fucking screen, man.
It does your eyes in.
It does.
Yeah, it really does.
So like, all right, let's go.
I want to talk about before you went into the ecstasy business,
you were huge in the stock market.
You were making millions of dollars, you know,
buying and selling and executing stock options.
Now, this shit is so confusing.
Why is the stock market and obviously it's a huge,
it's a topical subject right now with all the game stop stuff going on
and the hedge funds like, you know, we're billions of dollars in the hole
because of game stop.
But can you explain for, for dummies like myself,
what is a stock option and how is a stock option relevant
or how is a stock option?
What is a stock option compared to these bets on companies like game stock
failing when they bet on a company failing like this and how does it work?
Okay, so let me just say that what I'm about to say,
I need to do a disclaimer now because there's laws against giving investment advice.
So this is just going to be educational information I'm going to give
based on my experience in the stock market from age 14.
So I have what 10, 20, 36, 37 years experience in the stock market.
I was trading options in my late teens.
And in my 20s, I was a licensed stock broker.
I was a licensed at the options license and I had a branch manager license.
In the 1990s, this was in Arizona working as a stock broker.
So they're my qualifications.
So the stock market is an absolute minefield and people who go in who don't have a clue
what they're doing will just get their legs blown off very quickly.
90-something percent of new investors just get completely bled dry.
So stay away from it if you do not know what you are doing.
Stocks, you buy, let's say, Tesla and it goes up 10% and you sell Tesla and you make 10% profit.
Let's say you buy Tesla, it goes down 10% and you sell Tesla and you lose 10% of your capital.
Now with options, if Tesla goes up 10% and you own a call option, it might go up 100%
or 200% depending upon how geared that call option is.
If Tesla goes down 10%, you may lose 100% of your investment depending upon how geared
that call option is.
Flip that over now to put options.
Put options are when you're betting it's going to go down.
Tesla goes down 10%, your put option may go up 100%.
Tesla goes up 10%, your put option may be completely wiped out, you may lose 100%.
So the easiest way to think of options is as geared investments.
When an underlying security moves a fraction of a percent, an option is going to swing wildly
depending upon various factors which include the exercise price, the exercise date,
the volatility of the underlying security and so on and so on.
Now if you want to capitalize on the demise of a company and the fall of its stock price,
there are two ways to do it.
You either buy put options or you sell it short.
So the short sellers on GameStop for example.
Wait, what is the difference between selling it short or buying a put option?
So put options are called derivative securities and with a put option,
you can make a very small investment and it's geared so tremendously that
your capital can go up 100% very quickly or you can be wiped out very quickly.
Now selling short has got nothing to do with derivative securities.
To sell short, you have to pony up the full capital to collateralize that trade.
I'll give you an example. Say you're a short seller on GameStop at $5
and you want to sell short 10,000 shares, 10,000 times 5 is $50,000.
Depending upon your relations with your broker
is what determines how much you must put up to collateralize that trade.
But back in the 90s, you had to put up at least 50%.
So I sell short $50,000 worth of GameStop at $5 and I put up $25,000 as collateral.
Now the people see that GameStop has got a huge amount of short selling on it
and the people think, hey, this is a good opportunity for a short squeeze.
Now what a short squeeze means is they just buy shares because of the large short interest,
knowing that if they drive the shares up, the short sellers are going to get a margin call
and then it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy when they buy their shares back to cover their
margin call that it sends it even higher and even more short sellers are triggered to buy
those shares. But go back to the guy who put 25,000 down. GameStop goes from 5 to 6.
So now he's down 10,000. So his collateral has shrunk to 15,000. GameStop goes to 7.
Now his collateral has shrunk to 5,000 because he's down 20,000. At some point he gets a call
from his broker saying, you need to send us money if you want to maintain this position
and that's called a minimum margin requirement. It might be a third of the underlying value
of the short sale, but whatever it is, it's getting triggered every single time that stock goes up.
Now let's say it goes to 10 and he's down 50 grand and he's got no money left.
Do you know what he has to do now? He has to buy the shares back and eat the loss.
And when he buys those shares back, what does that do? Sends the shares higher.
So a guy who got wiped out at 10, he might buy it back, sends it to 11 and then the guys who
are wiped out at 11, they have to buy it back and they send it to 12 and then those guys, 13
and off it goes to outer space. And that's exactly what you saw with GameStop.
To the moon. To the moon, Alice.
Oh my God. What was your reaction when you saw this happening?
Okay. So this is your world, man. This is your used to living this.
I've seen these things happen so many times, so it was no surprise to me, but what it is
symptomatic of is an overheating market. So we saw the corona crash, then we saw the feds just put
in the monetary methadone and that as lower interest rates has just sent everything skyrocketing.
And then there's a saying in the stock market, when your barber starts recommending an investment,
it's time to get the hell out because that means there's no more suckers left
to put their money in. And that's what we've got the froth. We're at the froth level right now.
Psychology, however, can take things to extremes. That is why it is so hard to call the top.
When I went on True Geordi about three years ago, I said, look, Bitcoin way overvalued.
All it is is computer code. I think it's going to go down. And it did. It went down about from
20,000 to three to 4,000. Recently, it broke back above 20,000. Now that's called a technical
breakout. And when something does break above an old high, there's no limit as to how high
psychology could take it. So we saw it wham right up to 40,000. It's got as high as 44,000 today
could go to 100. I still think Bitcoin is worthless. This is psychology driving the market. It's a
millennial bubble. But how high does it go in the meantime? Because I think it's worthless. Do I
sell it short at 45,000 at 50,000? No, I certainly do not. Because like I said, you never know how
high it's going to go when psychology takes over. Let's roll the clock back now to Holland.
Tulip mania hundreds of years ago. People were remortgaging their houses to buy tulip bulbs.
Tulip bulbs were more valuable than gold. And that's just the effects of crowd psychology.
If people are interested in this, there's two books I read as a kid. And one is La Bonne,
The Crowd. And the other is Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds
by Charles McKay. Because when I got interested in the stock market at 14, I went down,
witnessed library and ordered dozens of books on the subject. And I quickly learned this is not a
pure mathematical thing. It is a crowd psychology thing. And once you tune into that, you can learn
how to ride those trends. And the other thing I would recommend to people is a book called
The Secrets for Profiting in Bolt and Burr Markets by Stan Weinstein. I had that one read as a
teenager. I must have read it about 10 times. And later in life, when I was a top producer,
stopbroker, Stan Weinstein, Guru, actually started mentoring me over the phone. It was
one of his corporate clients. Every time, you know, he called the office because he was on
Wall Street Week and that he was this big figure in that world. All the brokers were looking at me
like in Stan Weinstein's on the phone. There's also a forum that discusses and puts out stock
selections based exclusively on Stan Weinstein's methodology. And that is called StageAnalysis.net
of which I am a member. And I think the last thing I posted on that was that Zoom had done a
technical breakout around the beginning of the corona. I didn't bind it myself. God, I wish I had.
If you look at the subscriber growth in Zoom numbers and the share price jump, I mean, that is
definitely a company that is going places in terms of revenue and earnings per share growth,
which is what drives companies, values. The short sellers on GameStop looked at the financials.
They hadn't made money in years. They're still losing money now. So that valuation
in the billions had no resemblance to reality. But these things are never a straight line.
The people who buy them on the hype end up just getting wiped. And these things have to return
to their fur market value eventually. That's called the efficient market hypothesis.
And the fur market value is based on the discounted cash flow and earnings of everything that the
company is going to make in the future. And people say, well, look, if the short sellers are buying
all the, you know, the short squeezers are buying all the shares, how on earth are the shares ever
going to come down? What happens is the company can issue more shares at any time. And they often
do when share prices go up that high. The insiders start to sell all of their shares. They can't
believe their look. They've got shares at almost zero millions of them. And next thing, it's gone
from five to what almost 50. And they're inside a share, believe me, they are filing reports
to sell the shares as quick as possible. So these things are flashes in the pan.
The stock market will always go back to a fur market value at some point. But in the meantime,
psychology creates these huge swings, which if you can read the trends and forecast the trends,
you can capitalize on those swings.
Why do you think Bitcoin is worthless? Don't you think the concept of Bitcoin and having a
currency that's not able to be manipulated by the federal government or by
billionaire hedge funds, billion dollar hedge funds, don't you think that's a good idea?
Absolutely. I completely agree. So what is the value of a commodity, exchange value,
industrial value, portability, transferability, and supply? So look at the value of gold. There's
so much supply of gold in the world. Look at the value of any other precious asset.
Bitcoin has the flagship factor, but anyone can create a cryptocurrency. So the supply is
potentially unlimited for people creating cryptocurrencies. Surely someone else can create
a cryptocurrency with all the same exact same attributes as Bitcoin. The supply is potentially
infinite. It's not something you're mining out of the ground that industry is going to use that has
this actual value. And eventually, the government will capitalize on that weakness in cryptocurrencies,
I believe, to bring the values back down. Well, yeah, I'm not a fan of the government.
I'm all for everything that you just said, but I just think that it's a psychological bubble
created by millennials and perpetuated by millennials. And it's going to have to come
crashing down at some point, but right now it is on a red hot turn. It's going to the moon, Alice!
Yeah, it's at like $42,000 last time I checked. I think it was just one thing.
And I mean, I've even talked to lots of Bitcoin experts and they all say,
don't invest in it. Just use it as something to, you know, if you can do transactions with it
casually, you know what I mean? If you think about, a lot of people say, if you think about
investing in Bitcoin, just picture yourself throwing it away or lighting that money on fire.
If you want, if you wanted, like, if somebody owes you some money for a service and they happen
to have Bitcoin, ask them to pay you in Bitcoin, but don't take a bunch of your money and put it
into there because it's basically looks like burning it. I saw that a new story recently.
I think it was the German authorities arrested a fraudster that had like tens of millions of
Bitcoin and he wouldn't give them the password. So they can't access it, but they've kind of
like done something so he can't access it either. Huh? Yeah. Yeah, that's a cool thing about Bitcoin.
The government can't take your money away, no matter what you've done. Yeah, I like that.
You talked about, there was like a wake up moment for you when you were in the stock market,
they kind of brought you into this world of activism and being outspoken about America's
darkest, dirtiest secrets. And that was 9-11. Yeah, the 9-11 insider options trading. Yeah.
Can you break that? I know you've talked about it before, but for people that are watching this
one, can you kind of like break down like how you experienced that and how you discovered
everything that went down? Yeah. So I've already explained what a put option is. Right.
Just to clarify, in case you're going to make a clip, a put option is a derivative security
whereby if the underlying security moves a small percentage, the put option will move a massive
percentage. And with puts, you're betting that the underlying security is going to go down.
It's the opposite of a call option. In the days before 9-11, the average daily volume of the put
options on the airlines went through the bloody roof. When 9-11 happened and the stock market
was halted and the stock market was reopened days later and the underlying securities had
collapsed, those put options had gone up thousands of percents. Small investments were worth millions.
It was headline news. It's on YouTube. You can find it about insider option trading.
And the guy said on the headline news in America, this has to be the terrorists. The only people
who could possibly know were the terrorists. This is insider terrorist trading. These trades will be
traced and we will find out who these bastards are. Paraphrasing, of course. So it completely
disappears out of the news. Now, you know, options are something I've been on for many years of my
life. I'm thinking, what is going on with this? This is insane. I've never seen anything like this
before in my life. Headline news, push, gone. Years later, I'm in a maximum security Madison
Street Jail, Phoenix, Arizona reading a book by David Ike, I think, perhaps Alice in Wonderland
9-11. And his research had found that those trades had been traced to a brokerage
that was run by XCIA. So not only had they known about it, they had profited from it.
Everybody who knew about those trades at the time was visited by the feds and deputized,
which meant if you ever speak to these trades about anyone outside of this interview today,
you are going to prison for years of your life. So that completely, I mean, if people Google it,
I've not put out all the names involved, but if people Google it, you can see all the names involved.
I don't want to get it too complicated for people, but it gets really deep.
Now, is there actual proof that there's XCIA people that were in charge of the banks that were
doing these trades? Oh, yeah. Is this something like, because I know David Ike, I mean, talk about
being connected to some batshit craziness. I know he's connected to some crazy shit.
Yeah, I agree 100%. Every time you see him and his name that people are talking about
reptilians and stuff. I agree 100% that David has some conspiracy theories that people would
consider crazy. But this has been verified by a number of other independent researchers as well.
It's been discussed on RT quite a lot. And I urge people to go online and check it out themselves.
I'm just putting it in right now on my computer. He's trying to get the name of that brokerage.
Max Kaiser, he's the guy who's done a lot on it on RT. Max Kaiser, because he was involved with
those brokers as well. Here we go. Max Kaiser and guest talk about 9-11 inside the trading.
Oh, yeah, here it is. Here it is. Right.
So it was, it was very obvious that advanced knowledge of the attacks was circulating amongst
traders. And this insider trading happened days leading up to the attacks.
Buzzy Khrangard, K-R-O-N-G-A-R-D, deputy chairman of the CIA, was the former head of Alex Brown.
And Alex Brown was the company that had, I think, the majority of the options, transactions went
for them. This says, I used to work for Buzzy Alex Brown. I still keep in touch with my former
colleagues, some of whom were buzzing about the action and the put options on the airlines.
Additionally, a company I started in LA at Dotcom had been sold to Wall Street Brogages
a few months before the attacks. And the company had relocated their acquisition to the top floor
of the World Trade Center. I was in touch with employees who were also buzzing about the put
option frenzy in airline stocks. And they cited Alex Brown as a major source. I urge people to
research it. There's a lot more names involved. There's a lot more companies involved.
And there are some articles that really laid down, but just off the top of my head right now,
I can't find them. It's fucking crazy, man. That shit is some terrifying stuff. And no one,
it's something that no one really talks about. Because the people who did the trades would go
to prison. And it goes right against, you know, what was it? Pink Floyd said, mother,
should I trust the government? The government does not want you to hear it. Mainstream media is
owned by, you know, the same corporations who own the government. There you go. You're not going to
get it apart from independent researchers here and there. My whole like overview of this whole
situation with the stock market is that the normalization of the internet and everyone having
access to so much information and everyone is living on these, on these devices 24 seven,
it's made, it's made it harder for the government and corporations to keep secrets.
You know, and it's kind of, it's made everything more transparent,
which is made like previously, like even go 10 years ago when, or 20 years ago when no one had
iPhones or people weren't living on the computer online. I'm sure far less, far less
people understood the stock market than they do today. And now because of something like this,
because now you have this crazy news story about a bunch of kids on Reddit that are manipulating
and making these people lose billions. Now everybody wants to learn how the stock market
works. And it's going to, it's going to shine a light on all this shady shit that happens all
the time. That's normal for the stock market. Okay. So what you said about technology advancing is
true, but with the stock market, there's nothing new under the sun. So when you see this deluge
of novices wanting to learn about the stock market, we saw exactly the same thing during
the dot com bubble. And we know when that deluge happens, that the stock market is getting near
a top because who's left to buy after those, what the professionals would view as idiots.
Once that last wave of money comes in from your barber, from your granny, from, you know, whoever,
little Reddit investors, once all that money's in, who else is left then to sell shows to,
because the insiders are constantly unloading stock on novice investors. It's a disinformation
game. When you read something in online or in a financial publication that says,
this company's doing great. You should buy shares in it. That information is being put out there
because someone is trying to sell you their shares. Insiders are constantly just pumping
news stories out, telling you how great they're doing, how strong our earnings growth is,
how sales revenue is going to go through the roof in the coming years. We've got contracts with
China. All these stories are coming out all the time to suck people into buying the shares they
are selling to them. For every buyer does a seller. And when that last wave of suckers comes in,
it's getting near a market top. And those people, you know, your barbers, your shoe shine person,
when they get wiped, they'll go back to doing what they're doing. And they'll wish
they never got involved in the stock market in the first place. See it over and over again.
Such a crazy game. It's just like going to the casino. I've never been into it. I've never
bought shares and like individual pick. I've never like individually picked stocks or day
trade or whatever, you know, just like, you know, index funds or whatever, passive stuff. But
man, it's addicting. Once you get into that, you start like watching it every day,
watching your numbers go up and down. Short-term trading, definitely. So again,
this is just an educational video. This is not investment advice. If you put some money away
every month in a fund that's highly rated and is safe over time, you'll see that go up and down,
up and down. But over time, you will make a much higher rate of return than you would
than having that money just parked in the bank at a very low interest rate. But you've got to be
able to stomach those ups and downs. If you're putting the money in every month, you're doing
what's dollar cost averaging. So when it goes down, you buy more automatically. When it goes up,
you buy less, but your growth is right there. That's the sensible way to do it for novice investors.
Yeah, I think that's even what in an interview that I watched, which made me decide to start doing
this Warren Buffett, they asked him what he would do if he was not in his position or whatever he
would do. He said the biggest return with the least downside is put all my money in the S&P 500
over whatever, however many years, 50, 60, 70 years. You're not going to lose on that because the S&P
500 is the biggest corporations who are run by the biggest psychopaths who are getting the biggest
government contracts because of that thing called bribery. Oh, sorry, political contributions.
That's what keeps all that in motion. That's another thing is politics is becoming so much
more transparent. People are like media, like we're doing now, like politicians are able to go on here
and talk to people for hours. There's some that don't do it, obviously, but there's some that do
do it. And they're upfront about everything. And it's hard to smear somebody by taking them out
of context nowadays because if they do something long form, unedited like this, you can always go
back and find the source if you're not lazy. So I feel like that's changing too. And I just,
I guess I'm optimistic about the future of like politics and corrupt institutions of
this country now that everything is becoming more transparent, it seems like in the last
couple years. Yeah, but look at those of us who are exposing the corruption and what we're having
to go through, you know, ranging from trolls to black ops level stuff to take us down.
Look at what Julian Assange is going through. He sacrifices life to shine a light on that
corruption to get to the truth. Once you get so many followers, they take you out, don't they?
Or they destroy your character. They used to assassinate you, but now they destroy your character
or they put you in prison and give you a life sentence, or they just hold you indefinitely
like Julian Assange. So they still, the old guard still have techniques to combat what's going on
with technology. And look at the Great Wall of China. Look at how, you know, those poor bastards
over the suppression of information that's going on. So I don't want to be too negative here,
but yeah, that's my response to that. No. And another thing, it's also insane to realize
looking at the state of America right now and look at everyone's view on China, like everyone,
like I think by and large, the general view of China over here is like China is this crazy
communist place. There's no freedom, you know, all the protests that are going on, all the terrible
things that happened in China. But look how old China is. I had a guy on here that was recently
telling me a story, how he was over there doing a tour and someone was showing him a mill or something,
like an old mill that made some sort of fabric or whatever. And they're like, you see that thing?
That thing's older than America. And he's like, what America is going through right now? China
went through thousands of years ago. So I don't know. It's just, it puts everything in such perspective
to realize how, you know, it's an ancient civilization with so much history,
and they've arrived where they are now. But look at some of the modern cities now. They look like
things from Flash Garden, don't they? They're so advanced. Yeah. So Maxwell. Yeah, let's talk about
Ghislaine Maxwell. Last time we talked about Ghislaine Maxwell, she had, I think, just been
arrested. And we were kind of, you were kind of telling your thoughts on what you think was going
to happen to her. A lot of what we said has unfolded. When Maxwell got arrested, the more
conspiratorial were saying that the fix was already in, you know, she would get a pass somehow,
and she would be let off. So it's to not name all of these people, her co-conspirators,
royalty, people at the head of business, et cetera. But we've seen in the courts,
month after month, motion after motion, go against her. She offered a multi-million-dollar
bail bond package, and the judge shut that down. She revealed that she's married, and I think it was
25 million, and they prosecutor said, you know, she's got multiple citizenship, France, Israel,
the UK, and that money, you know, if she's facing life sentence, she could just easily
walk away from it. We don't know how deep her pockets are, but we believe the money that she
said her husband was putting up was her money in the beginning. So, you know, it's probably choked
change to her with her assets she's got around the world. Then we saw, as well as the denial of
the bail bond, which has been going back and forth, we saw the authorities put in increased
pressure on Prince Andrew to cooperate in this, and he's still reneging. And towards the end of
the year, we saw two other huge players, one in the Epstein case, one in the case of his own.
I'm talking about Jean-Luc Brunel. Jean-Luc Brunel got arrested in France. Epstein had boasted he
had slept with over a thousand girls from Jean-Luc Brunel's pipeline from Europe to America,
including 12-year-old triplets. And he was laughing at what good oral sex they had given him
on his birthday as this present from Jean-Luc Brunel. So, I've been doing a series of interviews
with a guy called Fred on my channel. He's out of France. He might be a good one for you to get on.
He was an absolute expert in Jean-Luc Brunel. So, he's at the forefront of this group of activists
in France who are exposing this bastard. Virginia has said that at the orgy on the island,
in which Prince Andrew was participating, this is Virginia's words, in which Maxwell was participating
and Epstein, that they were joking that these girls that Jean-Luc Brunel had sent over
were the easiest ones. They couldn't even speak any English. And they were from these poor families
in Eastern Europe. Jean-Luc Brunel was running a modeling agency. And they tell these girls,
we're going to launch a career, come with us. And next thing, they're getting sex trafficked.
So, the French authorities as well are leaning on Prince Andrew to give information. Now,
is Prince Andrew, and these other big names, the car that Maxwell's got up her sleeve,
even if she does, it would be in the interests of national security to prevent that information
from ever coming out. We're talking about Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew, multi-billionaires,
Leon Black, it's come out since our last interview, gave Epstein 150 million. So, Epstein,
when he died, his net worth was around half a billion. Leon Black, who manages one of the
biggest funds in the world, gave Epstein 150 million. A lot of that money must have gone
to the sex trafficking. So, you know, directly, his money was going into the sex trafficking
of these kids. But nothing's been done to him. So, there are these huge names that seem to be
untouchable. So, the trial is scheduled for this summer. And what Maxwell has been doing is going
to court every month and trying to increase her plea bargaining power. Because right before the
trial, each side then will try and get together. And based on the plea bargaining power of the
defendant, a deal will be agreed to avoid trial. I think that is the most likely outcome. It might
not necessarily happen right before this summer trial date, because that summer trial date is
like a musical cheer. They could push that back three months, six months, they can keep going
with that. But at some point, I believe that Maxwell will have to take a plea bargain. So,
what does that mean? She has to take a plea bargain. Let's say she'd won all of these motions
and she had a really strong plea bargaining power just before the trial. They might offer
like five to ten. So, she gets up in front of the judge, shows remorse, and she's got all these
mitigating circumstances. The judge has had a nice breakfast that day. He's not, you know,
he's in a good mood. The judge might sentence her to the lower end of that range. So, if she's got
five to ten, the judge might give her six years. If she's going to court every month and all the
motions are going against them, and more witnesses are found, and more charges are added to the
indictment, she is losing her plea bargaining power. So, by the time it gets to trial, they may say,
look, the position you're in right now, the best we could do is offer you 15 to 20. Now, she's
going to say, right, 15 to 20, if I get 15, it's the feds. I serve 85% of that time. You know,
the best years of my life are over. So, I'm going to roll the dice and take it to trial.
And I'm going to name these people. But at that point, the intelligence agencies would come in
and say, look, national security, you can't go there. So, these are the forces behind the scene
at play. I've interviewed various people, and they believe that Maxwell is sat on
the biggest treasure trove of political capital in the history of the world in terms of who Epstein
filmed or recorded having sex with these traffic girls. So, if you know, if she's got stuff on the
Clintons, royal family members, whatever it is, if she feels so trapped that she's going to lose
the rest of her life, she might want to activate that treasure trove and use that as some kind of
bargaining power. But Biden has come in. So, we've seen the changing of the guard in the White House,
Biden and the Clinton crime family are like that. So, we believe that Biden coming in
will benefit Maxwell because that information will not be allowed to come out under a Biden
presidency with him at the top of the fence. And again, just like the title of part one,
there's always the possibility that Maxwell will get Epsteined. What are they doing supposedly
to prevent that? She has a whole floor of the jail to herself. Yep. She's not in a general
population of prisoners. She's asked to be moved to a general population of prisoners,
so she can be around people and have those benefits. But because of the nature of her crimes,
the inmate population is likely to at the very least attack an ex-daughter or maybe even possibly
kill her. She's been checked by guards continuously. She's saying that, you know, they're waking her up
when she's asleep, checking that she's still alive and the place is camera up like crazy.
Just this week, her, she started to fight back and her lawyers filed something in the courts and
they're saying that the only reason that she's been arrested was because of the failings in the
Epstein case because of his death and that embarrassed the government. So, to show that
they're doing the job, they've gone after her and she should have been arrested a long time ago if
they had a case against her. But I don't buy into that at all. When they arrest someone in a case of
this magnitude and complexity, the bureaucracy is very slow, but it keeps going and going and going
and going and they gather more and more information, get more informants, they get more conspirators on
the indictments and that's how they build these complex cases up. I mean, my case was classified
as complex case, over 100 people. It took about, I didn't do my plea bag until the beginning of
the third year. They were still arresting people then. So, these things can go on and on and on.
But even though it is a very small chance it will go to trial, I would love to see that. If Maxwell
did name some big names at trial, certain government agencies would then have to take action upon
those names, but it won't get there. She will be silenced either legally or she will be Epstein'd.
Do you think Jeffrey Epstein's still alive? You know what,
Lin Wood sent some stuff about that. It went quite viral on my channel in January and
I wouldn't rule out that he's, you know, it could be down on some island with Kenneth Lay,
who was George Bush Jr.'s biggest political contributor at some point.
Really? Yeah, the guy behind the Enron fiasco was George Bush's single biggest contributor at some
point. It's a crime family. You've got to pay the back sheath to the mafia boss if you're running
your scams when they're in the White House, whether it's the Clintons, whether it's the Bushes,
it's the same old tricks, the same old games. And when Kenneth Lay got arrested, I think I was in
Department of Corrections. I said to my cellmate Long Island, I said, this guy, this is never,
ever going to get to trial. This guy was Bush's biggest contributor. Let's see what happens next.
And he just died mysteriously, didn't he? Was it his heart or something?
Really? Oh yeah, he was Epstein. Yeah. Oh my God. Yeah. I mean, well, the Epstein idea of him,
the theory of him being still alive, it doesn't seem that far out of the realm of possibilities,
because if I'm Jeffrey Epstein and I know people are trying to kill me and no people want me dead
because of all this compromising information I have on top world officials, on world leaders,
my response is going to be, if I disappear or end up dead, I have contingencies in place
that will release all the information on all of you. You know what I mean? Like if Jeffrey Epstein,
that would be, I would imagine that would be one of the top two things on his priority list
to have in place if he got locked up. So how would they get around that? You know what I mean?
It seems like the most logical answer is they faked his death and he got out and he's living
on some island. Or they seized that information because they have the technology that's so advanced
that they would get that and people I've interviewed believe that they do have that and
Glein's treasure trove already. And then they went in there and if you look at the crime scene
photo, there's an electrical cord on the floor. They used that electrical cord to strangle him
and that's what caused the damage to the hyoid bone, which is more common in homicide than
suicide. And then they strung him up to make it look like a suicide. So I'm about 90 percent
believing he was Epstein and 10 percent that he's on some island with Kenneth Lay.
Yeah, but even if they did get that information off of whatever, off a hard drive, let's say,
how would they be able to, how do they know how many copies are out there or how to destroy?
They would have to destroy the other evidence after they got their copy of it.
All right. So let's say that Epstein was working for the intelligence community as a honey trap
and his boss was Wexner, which is what Maria Farmer, the victim has said.
Then if Epstein was just a mid-level manager in that operation, Wexner was the Victoria
Secret guy. Yeah, yeah. He was the, what's the other company as well? I can't remember it off
the top of my head. Was it Victoria Secrets? Anyway, yeah, I think it was Victoria Secrets,
yeah, it was one of them. So if Wexner is the boss of this honey trap operation and he's clicked
up with the intelligence community and Epstein was just a mid-level manager, then I think that
information could be contained by the intelligence community. Yeah, I mean, I don't know. I feel
like it wouldn't be too hard for him to make copies of stuff and distribute it, you know,
to have just something in place to save his own life. Yeah, but if you had the information,
you just saw what happened to Epstein, what would you do with it?
I would go leave it on the doorsteps of the New York Times or something like that, you know,
somehow. Yeah, but that street's camera'd up, isn't it? They will, I would be shitting my
fucking pants. That's what I would be doing. Epstein, yeah, I guess, but if Epstein, I mean,
you would think that Epstein would do something to pay those people to figure out a way to get
that to the public, you know, anonymously. I don't know. I think it would have happened. If they
had their balls to do that and they had the information, I think someone would have released
something. Yeah. I think it's been contained because they've got all the money and all the
technology in the world against little players. So nothing's going to happen to her? Maxwell will
do some prison time because she's going to have to, otherwise, everyone's going to just say
there is no fucking justice in the world. How can this woman who trafficked hundreds or maybe
thousands of victims and participated in sexual assaults get a pass because she's buddy with
Prince Andrew and Bill Clinton? Right. He's going to have to do something and the lawyers are going
to say, look, you know, that this is so serious. These charges are serious. You've got to do some
time. It's just how much she does. So are you every day online just like keeping track of every
document that's filed? I can't even take a break. The minute I try to take a break,
there's breaking Epstein news. It's the case that never goes down because there's so many people
involved and it's spreading Jean-Luc Bernal, Maxwell. Oh, the other guy I forgot to mention was
Peter Nygaard who was doing these pamper parties. He was drugging girls up, taking their passports
and raping them anally after it's been, you know, promised these jobs as models and whatever.
Again, another good old pal of Prince Andrew. He's been down there on the island and this guy's own
sons are in the charging him with sexual, they were sexually abused. The dad thought it was a
good idea, a rite of passage to have a sex worker fuck his teenage sons so that they were no longer
virgins. Oh my, so he bought a hooker for his kids? Yeah. Wow. How old were they? They were in like the,
I think the middle or low teens. Oh my God. Yeah. And how is this guy connected to Epstein?
No, he's not. He's connected to Prince Andrew. He had an island down there near Epstein's island
was as well in a part of the world. So he was another Bahamian billionaire and in charge of a
massive company, let me just look it up again. You'll have heard of it out of Canada, I believe.
I wonder what they're doing with Geoffrey Epstein's island. Okay, so they got this thing where
they're trying to give up, give the compensation to the victims, but they said they just run out of
cash. So the island, the island is going to have to be, you know, liquidated if they want to keep
paying these victims and the lawyer fees that aren't going. Holy shit. How much money did they get
for the island? I can't remember how much it's worth. Last time I looked at the value of Epstein's
assets has actually gone up approximately 100 million since he died. Nygard's visitors over
the years at his island included Michael Jackson, George H.W. Bosch, Robert De Niro and Prince Andrew.
What? It's called Nygard K. Nygard K. Yeah, yeah. In 1987, he built a 14,000 square meter compound
at Lyford K in the Bahamas, partly destroyed by fire on November 10, 2009. The K is inspired by
the Mayan civilization's architecture. One of the major buildings is a 3,000 square meter grand
hall with a 45 ton glass ceiling. And this guy's still alive? Yeah, he's old now. He's 79 and he's
in prison. He was rated the 70th richest Canadian in 2009 with a net worth of 817 million. And now
he's in prison in the US or where? Yeah, he's facing extradition to the US. Okay, okay. Yeah,
six allegations of rape made against him all under 16. I interviewed Ryan Dawson who just got
de-platformed from YouTube and he was talking about how they were just taking these girls' passports
and drugging them up and sodomizing them. Geez, who is this guy? Ryan Dawson, you said? Yeah,
Ryan Dawson. He's out of Japan. He's a good guy. He's an activist. Why did he get de-platformed?
Too many of these kinds of videos.
You'll have to ask him that. I'm not exactly sure. We've got his strikes on what videos.
Oh my God. I'd love to see a podcast with David Ike and Alex Jones.
Oh, we need that, don't we? I mean, I think they have done some...
They did a Zoom, I think, or something like that. Yeah, there was something online,
but imagine that all got wiped out with the great de-platforming. That would be absolutely
bonkers. And you just did an interview with that guy, John Sweeney, and he has a whole podcast
dedicated to Epstein and Maxwell and that whole story, right? So, his podcast became the number
one podcast in the UK. It's called Hunting Galane. So, my interview of him is called Hunting Galane
Maxwell's John Sweeney, if people want to check that out. I thought I knew a lot about Maxwell,
but he spent many years dedicated to that, and I learned a lot from John Sweeney. Really,
there were things I was wondering about, and he filled in those blanks.
What was the biggest revelation or the biggest thing that he uncovered in your mind?
So, he talked about Maxwell, Galane Maxwell's upbringing, and he just went into a vivid description
of how dysfunctional it was under Robert Maxwell, who was this charismatic media tycoon, but he was
also an absolute monster and a psychopath in many ways. And because he was so charming,
people who were close to him, when they said he's a monster or he's a psychopath, they said,
well, at least he's our monster or at least he's our psychopath. But apparently, Galane was subjected
to corporal punishment, and there was a selection of belts. And looking at what happened later on,
books that were found in Epstein's properties, like the Marquis de Sade, this BDSM stuff,
a lot of what happens to us when we're kids carries forward into our adult lives.
So, this BDSM propensity, it seems that a root cause is possibly the beltings and the corporal
punishment that she got from her dad, who she idolized, and he was her favorite as well out of
all of the kids who, some of them became hugely successful, some of them died, there was all,
it's like a Greek tragedy, what happened to the kids?
What happened? How many brothers and sisters does she have?
A lot.
Quite a lot. Let me just have a look right now. We can see how her behavior was shaped
by the treatment that came from her father. Now, Sweeney was quite sympathetic in respect
that he was saying that that was a mitigating circumstance, you know, format as well because
of this dysfunctional upbringing. Nine children.
Nine.
Nine children he had.
So, if you want to hear the crazy stuff that happened to these kids, so Michael was the oldest
brother. He fell into a coma age 15 after a car crash in 1961 and died eight years later,
having never regained consciousness. So, imagine you're Ghislaine and your brother
is just on life support and he can't even communicate with you. So, that is really sad.
Eight years.
Eight years.
Philip, 71. Paul Philip, he was described by as his friends, became a brilliant scientist and
mathematician, won a scholarship to Bailey Old College Oxford at just 16. But he so hated his
father that as soon as he could, he fled to Argentina to get a far away from him as possible.
They fell out when he married Nilda, an Argentinian in 1977 against his dad's wishes.
The marriage didn't last. Nilda moved out taking their daughter, Marcella, with her and a second
marriage also failed. He was last heard of living in a 65 a week flat that is $100 a week
apartment in North London, trying to be a writer. And what was he writing about?
His bollying father. And 69 became an actress and she was called ugly by her father.
When her fledgling acting career floundered, her dad said,
what have you and Pope John Paul II got in common? You are both ugly and you're both failed actors.
This is how crazy that guy was. Jesus Christ. She studied Italian and French
Oxford, trained as a Montessori teacher, married an osteopath and is now believed
to be a hypnotist in Surrey, practicing under a different name. She kept out of the limelight
since her father's death in 1968. So I'm in Surrey. I might try and get a hold of her.
Oh, this is a good one. Christine. So you saw some of them didn't do very well, but these did.
Christine and her sister, Isabel, made the Sunday Times rich list in 1999 after amassing
100 million during the dotcom bubble. But then they lost it all. But now they're back up again
or something. It's crazy. Geez, man. Yeah. Yeah. Where are they all? Where was the,
what was the dad's name again? Robert Maxwell? Robert Maxwell. Where was he? Where did he live?
Where was he based at? Was he in the UK? So he was out of Czechoslovakia.
Oh, okay. And his entire family were wiped out in the Holocaust.
Well, his mom said to him, get to England and copy the mannerisms of an English gentleman.
And that's what he did. Interesting. Oh, there's a weird death. Isabel, the second twin,
she got together with an illusionist, a third husband, illusionist, Al Seckel,
a significant player in the California literary academic and celebrity scene,
was famous for holding parties for the great and good, and was a good friend of Epstein.
In 2009, the two organized a science conference called Mindshift on Epstein's Private Island.
Isabel and Seckel married in Malibu in 2007. But the union was never legal as he'd forgotten
to file the papers to know the second of three previous marriages. But here's what happens to him.
In 2015, Seckel was found dead below a cliff near the home in the village of Saint-Cerques,
La Pope in France's Lotte Valley. And Isabel still lives in the south of France.
Was he Epstein in 2015?
Somebody needs, HBO needs to do a documentary on the Maxwell family.
That would be fucking bonkers.
Here's an even sadder one. Kareen, the middle sister, age three in 1957, died of leukemia.
Oh, no, no, no, it goes, man. It's endless, the sister.
Geez. It's a tragic, a tragic history from that family.
Kevin became Britain's biggest ever bankruptcy.
Oh, I don't know. It goes. Yeah.
Wow. I wanted to ask you before we end this thing. I did a podcast with Wilford Wong.
It's one of like my biggest podcasts. It's got like almost a half a million views on it.
You emailed me right when he got arrested. He got arrested for apparently, he claims he was
trying to catch some one of these satanic cults who are praying on children.
What happened with them?
All right. So Wilford Wong was arrested with a group of people,
including the mum of the kid that they had taken from social services.
And these are, these are the kind of stories that are causing problems,
legal problems for people. So I'm going to word things very carefully.
I want to say that, you know, the mother obviously believed that her kid was getting abused in Kerr
and Wilford, they had a car with false license plates and I think he had a knife in his possession.
We absolutely do not advocate that people take matters into their own hands
and snatch kids from the authorities because Wilford is facing a massive
prison sentence now for abducting a child. One of his co-defendants was found dead already
in the prison. Yeah. And I have had a letter from Wilford which I read out on my channel
and I also recently published a four hour 15 minute podcast with John Wedger who had referred
Wilford to us in the first place, who is in telephone communication with Wilford and he has
communicated Wilford's story and wishes through that medium. So there's a trial coming up
and Wilford is protesting his innocence, asking people to write to the government in Wales
and is going to be taking it to trial. So we are awaiting the outcome of that. But again,
I reiterate, people do not follow in Wilford's footsteps and snatch kids from the authorities
and, you know, you're going to end up with a massive prison time if you do anything like that.
Yeah. The one thing that I was that I questioned about Wilford, I know a lot of people talk about
the SRA and the satanic ritual abuse that happens, but the weirdest thing was there's no solid evidence
of it ever happening. There's no like footage or video or anything. And he's like a very devoted
Christian, right? Like he's very involved in like a bunch of Christian organizations and does a lot
of work within that religion, which it seems interesting that he's so devoted to catching
these Satanists. There are some cases documented that people can find online of people who've been
charged with crimes that were a part of satanic rituals. But it's not, you know, every day and
every day thing that we see. Correct. Yeah. Right. I mean, is there is there any actual
like video or footage and there's like the whole behemian grow thing where where they had like a
fake child's body or fake body or whatever that they were sacrificing? But is there ever has there
ever been any actual evidence found? Well, there's all kinds of things available online, showing
macabre crimes, snuff movies, red rooms. There's all kinds of horror story stuff going on.
And perhaps, you know, people who believe in good and evil would say that that, you know,
those are satanic enterprises in themselves. But I know what you're saying, like,
there's people who love the theatrics of it, of worshiping the devil. You know what I mean?
It's a fun thing for some people. Like there's metal bands who sacrifice fake people on stage
and people think it's exciting and fun and whatever. It's rebellious, isn't it for young
people as well to do, you know, Gothic and yeah. Yeah. So, you know, how much of it is out there?
I have no idea. I'm no expert on this subject. Yeah. But it's fun. It's fun to investigate and
talk about. It certainly is. Yeah. I've interviewed quite a few people on it. Well, man, well,
thank you for doing this. I wish we had longer, but this was super exciting and fun. It's always
a pleasure. Any anything specific we want to talk, you want to have people go to like any specific
videos you got going on or any books? If you pop the link to my channel in the description box,
that's the thing I appreciate the most. It's free to subscribe to my channel.
We're almost that's coming up to 700,000 subs now. I really appreciate all the people who've
jumped on there. And I've got about 15 books available. They're available worldwide on Amazon.
Just put my name in S-H-A-U-N-A-T-T word. Whether it's, you know, my jail story or stuff we write
about the CIA and Epstein. New book coming up about Epstein. Who killed Epstein? Prince Andrew
or Bill Clinton. I'm going to have Prince Andrew and Bill Clinton on the front cover of that.
That's fucking great. Other than that, you know, if it's just gone from strength to strength,
just putting, we're doing a weekly live stream right now called Atwood Unleashed
with some of this more sensitive content. And we've got two true crime podcasts coming out
every week, one on Monday night and one on Thursday night as well. So all on your main
channel, the Sean Atwood channel, all on the main channel. And, you know, Danny, just really
appreciate you having me on. And it's always a pleasure.
