Hello world, this is a clip from one of our Patreon exclusive episodes.
If you want to watch the full episode, go to our Patreon, it's linked below.
It's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Luke James is one of my best friends since middle school.
We started an ad agency together in our early 20s working on ad campaigns and creative
campaigns for big national brands, local businesses, celebrities like Hulk Hogan.
In this, we talk a lot about the early days, a lot of the things that we're not proud of,
things that I'm not proud of, stupid ignorant shit, drugs, being shitheads in our early
20s, going to Vegas with Hulk Hogan, lots of crazy ass stories.
So without further ado, please enjoy this episode with the amazing Luke James.
But that's, you know, accessibility makes things not cool.
I don't know why I don't like it though, I mean I tried to like it, I tried to get
into it.
Yeah you got the hat.
I tried to get some of the hype.
I understand that you guys get the dopamine from going on there every Thursday, 11 a.m.
It's like watching Game of Thrones.
It's competitive capitalism.
Competitive capitalism.
Because you're fighting everybody for that one little slot to just buy something and
then that's how they get you addicted.
So not only do you get the reward buying something, you get the reward winning over everybody
else that didn't get one.
It's like I fucking got one and you didn't get shit.
It's competitive consumerism.
Yeah.
The capitalism, it's like anti-competitive capitalism.
Because they have, they're not really, I mean are they competing with anybody?
Yeah, you're competing, like I got to get to the website first.
And not only am I going to get to it first.
No, no, you are.
Because you're the consumer.
But I'm talking about them.
Oh, I mean.
Like who is, like who is supreme?
The supreme has no competition.
They drop shit and they sell out instantly, everything, right?
Yeah.
They're their own competition.
It's all about, yeah, they're their own.
Their website is their competition.
Because that shit sucks, it's slow.
It's by design.
Yeah.
That's what makes it so.
Makes it more exciting.
I got to do it.
I remember people in like meetings, like 11, like they'd have to push it because they'd
just be like refreshing, trying to get shit.
I like it.
What meetings?
Oh, like when I worked at places.
Oh.
Like people in the middle of shit, trying to buy supreme.
When you worked at places, people were trying to buy supreme?
Yeah, like in the middle of a fucking meeting, like they'd try to really, yeah.
Where?
When I was at Leo Burnett, like we're, yeah, like we're about to like present some shit
and there was two dudes next to me that like had work to present and they're just like
refreshing this supreme thing, trying to get a hat.
Bro, we've been up to like fucking 2 AM.
Can we sell this fucking work please?
Oh my God, dude.
That's insane.
It's addicting.
I don't think anything on there is that great.
I like the hats.
Yeah.
I'm a fan of the hat.
Yeah.
The hat you wear is cool looking.
I like it.
But like, I don't know, a lot of the stuff is like too much.
Too much.
A lot of stuff is way too much.
Like the chrome heart shit, too.
Like the jeans with the crosses.
Like T-Fu's jeans.
Yeah, dude.
What the fuck?
There's some wack ass fucking $10,000 jeans.
Well dude, we're like, we're the old people now.
We don't get what the young people are into.
Oh, I understand fashion.
I get it.
Do you?
I pay attention to it.
I see what's going on.
Don't let the fucking ratty ass old band T-shirt fucking fool you.
Like I pay attention to shit.
You keep up with it?
Yeah, I keep up with it.
Just because I don't like something doesn't mean I'm old.
It just means I have an opinion about something.
Hey, convince me otherwise.
Why are these fucking Wranglers with fucking crosses and rhinestones on them cool?
Why do you think he wore those fucking pants?
Do you think he actually believes that those are cool?
I mean, do you think he actually believes?
Probably.
Do you think he actually thinks when you wear those fucking big ass...
Can you pull up a picture of the chrome heart jeans?
It's in fucking songs.
People rap about it.
They're expensive.
They're exclusive.
Get rid of all that shit.
All of the glamour about it and being quote unquote chrome heart.
Do you think that people that wear those actually think they look good?
That's fashion though.
It's the glamour.
It's not about looking good and being comfortable.
It's about paying attention to what's happening and being a part of it.
There they are.
Yeah.
Those are the jeans he was wearing at Superbowl.
That looks like the fucking jeans that like Justin Timberlake wore to the fucking VMAs
with Britney Spears when they were all denimed out.
Those look like the jeans that Shane's grandma wears to church.
They look like Ed Hardy jeans without fucking rhinestones on them.
Bro, they look like fucking...
They look terrible.
They look like some broke ass Kmart Wranglers that have been fucking in somebody's sock drawer
for the past 20 years.
Somebody pulled them out, slapped some crosses on them and sold them at a flea market.
It's so weird that it's just so fucking weird that people just wear those because of the price tag
and because people know that they're expensive.
Yeah.
It's like wearing a expensive watch.
Yeah.
It's like wearing a fucking Audemars Piget watch.
You're like, oh yeah, bitch.
Yeah, this watch is $100,000.
It sells the same time as your fucking watch you got right there.
Yeah, my piece of shit, $7 cashio.
Time's the same for all of us, no matter how much you pay for it.
But we're all paying for it.
We're paying one way or another.
Time's the one thing you ain't getting back, brother.
And we ain't making it out of this life alive.
Do you miss working for Leo Burnett?
Fuck no.
Why not?
Sucked.
Well, it was awesome.
Well, it was going on.
But I don't know.
That was your dream job.
Yeah.
When we worked together in Clearwater.
Yeah.
That was like Mad Men, Leo Burnett working in a big building in downtown Chicago.
Big tobacco.
Big tobacco.
That was like your dream.
Working on Marlboro.
You thought that that was the pinnacle of your existence.
That was my existence.
That was all I worked for.
And yeah, just like any grass is always greener.
But as soon as you get there, you find out it's the same shitty grass that you were looking
at just from a different perspective.
You get there.
It's great.
It's cool.
This is fun.
This is awesome.
Is everything I ever wanted it to be.
And then like it becomes normal.
And then you start to see it for what it is and 70 hours a week.
That ain't cool.
It's a lot.
It's cool if you like it though.
You burn out super quick.
Like 70 hours a week for like a year and a half.
I'll catch up to anybody, man.
Yeah.
It ain't worth it.
I mean, it's cool.
I'm really grateful that I stepped out and did that and pursued it.
People who don't know what Leo Burnett is.
It's like the biggest, most established, oldest, most elite advertising agency in the country.
Yeah.
If you've ever seen a commercial, they probably made it.
They had McDonald's for a super long time.
So like every McDonald's commercial up until like five years ago, they made.
They've done all the Marlboro advertising since the fifties.
And I still, and yeah, there's like Kraft Kellogg, Miller.
So that's like Kors, Miller High Life, like all those fucking beers.
Nintendo was the floor below us.
That was sick.
But yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I'm sure you've experienced it too.
Like you get to a certain point with something where you're like striving for.
If I just get that, that's what I need.
And then you get there and it's like, okay, cool.
Now what?
And then you're just like there and you're just like looking.
And it's like, there's still always something more.
It's miserable.
It was miserable.
You say it was miserable.
Yeah, for sure.
Like towards the end, I was super, it was super miserable.
Really?
Yeah.
And I did everything I wanted to.
What was your fate?
What made you want to be in advertising?
Like what was like, obviously you're good at design and shit.
And you're creative and you love music.
But why, why an ad agency?
Advertising is everything.
So like if you think about like a commercial, it's not just like what it looks like.
You know, it's like what it looks like.
What does it sound like?
What is the writing?
And it's just like a complete total creative immersion of a vision for something.
And you're selling something which makes it even more challenging, which is what I like most about it.
It's not just like creativity for the sake of like being creative.
It's never really good at being creative like that, you know?
I feel like I need a problem to solve.
And advertising is all about solving problems creatively.
Like, oh, we need to inform these people about this thing in this way.
So you have to take that messaging and then turn it into a commercial.
So you're saying that you like the process of trying to sell just as much as you like the process of like creating the art?
Yeah.
The messaging.
It's like propaganda for a product where you almost have to brainwash people into believing that it's good.
It's like, you know, go to McDonald's.
Oh, my hamburger doesn't look like the picture.
Yeah, no fucking shit.
It's an ad.
You fucking dumbass.
What did you expect?
You think there's fucking food stylists in the back of McDonald's working the drive-thru?
But before you went to Leo Burnett, we were creating some sick fucking advertising.
We were.
So my question to you is, what made you want to go work for an ad agency when we were basically creating like sick ads on our own?
We were basically like entrepreneurial, creating our own.
We were on the phone selling shit to Hulk Hogan.
Right.
But you still, you wanted to go work for an agency.
Like, what?
I personally never understood that.
So I'd be interested to hear like your thoughts on or what you were feeling.
What made you want to do that?
We are brought to you by Manscaped, who is the best in men's below the waist grooming.
Manscaped offers precision engineered tools for your family jewels.
They obsess over their technology developments to provide you the best tools for your grooming experience.
Manscaped is trusted by over 2 million men worldwide.
The Lawn Mower 3.0 comes inside their brand new Perfect Package 3.0, which comes with everything you need to keep trimmed, cut free, and smelling nice downstairs.
I have tried to use regular beard trimmers in the past to cut my cock and balls.
And I cut the shit out of myself and it was like the Texas chainsaw massacre,
cutting myself with a fucking open tuna can.
But this thing doesn't do that because it's got this ceramic blade on it and it feels like butter.
Don't make the mistake I did.
Don't use the same trimmer on your face that you use on your nasty nut sack.
Get 20% off and free shipping with the code concrete at manscaped.com.
That's 20% off with free shipping at manscaped.com and use the code concrete.
Unlock your confidence and always use the right tools for the job with Manscaped.
Honestly, I felt like what we were doing wasn't really mine.
I felt like it was you.
Concrete is you.
And I was just there helping you realize a vision.
And what solidified that and what made me ultimately leave was when we were doing the Hulk Hogan video.
And at the end said produced by Danny Jones.
Well, originally it said produced by Danny Jones and Luke James.
But in front of Hulk Hogan, you said take your name off.
You got to put in your time.
So that didn't sit right with me.
So I was like, well, I see that he's in this for himself.
So I'm going to go out and see what else is up.
And so then I went out, saw what else was up, worked at a place in Tampa, got to work on the Florida Lottery.
That was cool.
So it was like a one time reaction to that moment?
No, that wasn't a reaction to that because I didn't like leave until a couple months after that.
That was just something that never really sat right with me.
Oh, so it was like, so you're saying it was that one moment that you kind of dwelled on and you thought about.
And that moment was kind of like a turning point for you.
That really hurt my feelings.
Really hurt your feeling?
Yeah, dude.
I thought we were in it together.
So that was you would say that that was like a legitimate turning point for you that you like made a decision like you dwelled on it for a while.
Obviously.
Yeah.
And that was a reason you made a decision to go work for ad agencies for just because was it because you wanted to like learn more?
Or was it because you just wanted to get away from what I from from me?
I felt like, well, obviously, yeah, I wanted to learn more because like, yeah, we were doing cool shit.
Obviously, I can obviously you were resentful about that moment.
I could see that anyone would be resentful.
Yeah.
And I also wanted to learn from people that have done it.
You know, it's like, yeah, we could like crank out cool shit like all day up there.
But I feel like I wasn't really learning anymore.
And I love learning, big fan of learning and like trying new things, seeing what else is out there.
So I just wanted to go work for people that have like been in advertising and done like big campaigns and like study advertising writing and study like positioning and messaging and everything.
That goes into making a successful ad and see how I could do that to make myself a better creative.
I feel like I did that.
I feel like I came back a little bit stronger and sharper than I did when I left.
Just kind of like a really long journey coming back to the same place.
But I'm grateful for it.
Yeah.
How did you feel about it when I left?
When you let, dude, I was fucking crushed.
Yeah.
I was fucking crying.
Sweet pea.
Shit.
I was like, you came over early.
Yeah.
And she was still asleep.
I know the public's bag full of hard drives.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She woke up to me literally on my couch sobbing.
Like didn't know what the fuck to do.
I had like a Johnson Jewelers commercial do the next fucking day.
Yeah.
You just dumped all this shit in my lap.
I was fucking pissed off.
I'm like, what the fuck?
How can this cock suck in motherfucker just drop all this shit when we know we have shit do?
Like how can he not give me a warning?
Like, well, the reaction was terrible.
I mean, the initial reaction was terrible.
But, um, but yeah, I mean, you know, big picture after like thinking about, you know, talking
to you about it and learning from it.
I mean, obviously it's just, it's just a learning.
It's just growth.
It's just like being young and stupid and making mistakes.
Yeah.
You know, everyone, everyone is selfish sometimes.
Everyone, everybody's selfish, you know, some people more than others, but you got to trip
and fall in your face and get up from it and learn from it.
If you're going to get better.
So, but yeah, it was devastating.
It was fucked up.
We didn't talk.
Me and you didn't, people, me and this guy didn't fucking talk for like five years.
That was a while.
Five years.
Yeah.
And me and Shane would, it was like an ongoing joke with me and Shane for the whole five years.
Me and Shane still talked every day and we'd always make jokes about you.
I'm like, Hey, you wonder if you think Luke would want to go with us here?
Like, let's hit up Luke.
We would still like the way me and you talked to me and you and Shane talk every day on
the group chat.
That was consistent through that whole hiatus.
It was just like, you're just making fun of me without being there.
We were making fun of you without being there.
Except we weren't really making fun of you.
We were kind of like, like full circle making fun of me.
Right.
Because we know that I was the reason that you weren't, you didn't fuck with both of us.
Yeah.
That's how you know it's like some real hatred.
I don't fuck with either of you.
I ain't fucking with you either.
Yeah.
Your proximity is un-fuck with a bull.
I can't go over there.
Oh, bro.
Shane would call me every time he saw you.
He was like, bro, is that the fucking, what's the bar with the finger in front of it?
Downtown with the finger that points down to the door.
No, the Benz.
The Benz.
I was at the Benz.
I saw Luke.
Luke Sturdy.
I made eye contact with the Luke Sturdy.
We said hi.
Oh man.
No, yeah.
It was a hilarious daily ongoing inside joke with me, Shane and Sweet Pea for five years.
Yeah.
I'm glad we patched it over.
And Sweet Pea knew I more than anybody because she knows me better than anybody.
Yeah.
She knows how difficult you can be.
She knows exactly how I am.
She knows exactly how selfish I was.
Yeah.
He still am probably, but more so back then.
You're better.
But I noticed that I recognized it.
Yeah.
And dude, I mean, that would give me some credit.
That was a high pressure situation.
You handled it.
No, no, no.
The Hulk Hogan situation.
When Hulk Hogan was standing over our shoulders and we were like, who's the enemy put?
And I'm like, huh, they were both there.
They were there.
The graphic was made.
And the reason, the reason it only has one name at the end of the video called me beforehand.
And he was like, bro, how can we have two fucking names directed by at the end?
Don't put this on fucking Hulk.
We can only have two names.
Don't put this on Hulk.
I don't find that very goddamn second.
So I had Hulk with his fucking thumb on my head and I had you with your fucking boot.
I'm about to leave again.
Boot on my throat.
And I had to make a decision in the moment and I made the coward decision.
I'll admit to it.
I don't know if I believe that, but it's a good story here.
The history about Hulk, he made a comment about the two names being on it.
And when he questioned, I mean, obviously if the same thing happened now and anybody
questioned me like that, I would obviously take your side over it.
Because I realized now I'm not anything.
Nothing means anything without the fucking people that I'm surrounded with.
Because what the fuck am I going to sit here and talk like a podcast, like the podcast?
95% of the reason anybody watches any of these videos is because of the people I bring on.
Not because of me.
This is your turn to your time to shine though.
Yeah.
Well, anyways, I've realized that the talent around me is the reason that I'm able to do
anything.
Yeah.
It's good to realize that because as you realize that, you can stop using people to obtain
things, but you can start collaborating with people and bringing people up with you and
really connecting with people when you don't have some outside interest in using their skills
for something.
Somebody's sitting here.
You're genuinely interested in the people sitting here.
You're not just using them for what they may or may not do for you.
This is just what you do now.
You actually have an interest in person.
I think the podcast has helped you grow.
You're still a fucking idiot, for sure, 100%.
But I feel like you've gotten more empathetic since you started this.
Since I went from not talking to you to talking to you, something happened in there where it's
just like, oh, maybe I should figure out how to not be such an asshole all the time.
Yeah.
Well, this thing is definitely hard as fuck to do.
This is nothing like anything that we used to do together.
It's podcast.
It's nothing like doing commercials.
It's nothing like...
Oh, no.
Those commercials that I've been sending you guys lately, the ads that I've been doing
in the podcast, those are so much fun for me to do.
Yeah.
Because actually, I get to make a video again.
You get to create.
I get to create something with music and that's fucking edited.
This is kind of like, I don't get to do any of that with this.
It's all done right here.
It's all just this exercise.
It's like going to the gym.
Yeah.
Like you don't fucking want to do it.
You don't want to wake up early as fuck and go to the gym and run on the treadmill and
do your workouts and sit in the sauna, whatever you do.
It's like, that's how I feel about this still even after...
This is only like the 110th time I've done it.
But it's like, it's a difficult exercise.
It's like a game of ping pong.
It's like going back and forth, keep the ball fucking going before you fumble it and
make sure that you can talk.
And I was thinking about it on the way here, like doing these things.
The hardest thing in the beginning was thinking about when we're creating commercials or many
documentaries or whatever, like deck hands, you're thinking about the overall finished
product.
You're thinking about it from like a 20,000 foot view of it.
That's how I think about these sometimes and it fucks up the whole thing.
It fucks up the podcast.
Because I'm thinking about the final product, how it's going to be, what I'm going to talk
about, talking, whatever it might be.
You're not in the moment.
But the best way to do this thing is to just submerse yourself in the moment of it and
not think about the final product.
But it's a hard thing to do.
It's really fucking difficult to do, for me at least.
I don't know if it is for everybody.
You've got to remove yourself from the outcome and just enjoy the process of it.
And it's like you're learning how to have a conversation every time you sit down.
And the biggest thing, because I'm nervous as fuck being here too, because it's like
I'm at home alone all day by myself and not really talking.
We text and I'll call my mom, but I don't have very much interaction with people.
So relearning how to talk.
This is the most talking I've done in probably like a year, honestly.
And there's a very clear difference between the way that you're talking and the way that
I'm talking.
You can tell that you talk a lot more than I do, and you've definitely gotten better
at that.
And I think one thing that also helped you get better too is you've gotten better at
listening and shutting up and letting people be themselves and giving them the microphone
and knowing when to back out.
Yeah, well I don't think I've ever been that good at talking.
This has definitely made me better at talking.
I feel like before I was just more of like a stuttering moron.
Now I just have a little bit more knowledge.
The stutter still comes through a little bit.
The moron is getting pushed to the background, but I mean it's all still there.
The funniest fucking thing.
That is you and Shane.
That is like the most accurate thing ever, except I'm not that angry, my head's not that
big.
But I mean I get it, it's exaggerated, so it's fucking so funny.
And he's always got some crazy idea.
You've always got some crazy idea like this.
Shane's just there fucking milligrammed out of his fucking gourd drooling on himself.
What?
Where's the ports at?
Oh my god dude, that would be the funniest fucking shirt or something.
That would be so good.
I'd have to do it.
That fucking photo of him cruising down the PCH?
He's getting it.
He's joining Sons of Anarchy, right?
That's the first time he's been to California.
Good for him.
What are they doing out there?
I'm really liking his whole like transition into like his biker look.
I think it's better than like the ghetto white boy look.
How far do you think he's going to go with it?
I don't know.
Do you think he's going to end up in like leather and chaps?
No, I don't know.
I think he'll like, the farthest he'll go is like to look in like Jack's from Sons of Anarchy maybe.
Yeah, he did have the flannel on today.
I saw that in the rear view mirror.
Yeah, he had a, well you can see the sleeve.
Yeah.
The flannel.
I think that was the exact one that Jack's wears.
He came over to Jack, my dad's house yesterday, and he was wearing the flannel.
He stopped yourself from saying Jack.
Well, we call him so many different things.
Like me and Shane call him rock hopper.
You call him, a lot of people call him jab.
Get that jab.
Get that jab, boy.
But he came over wearing fucking Harley boots, jeans, the flannel, the hair slicked back.
He looked like a completely different dude.
Sweepy was like, damn.
Damn.
Like, whoa, easy sweepy.
Cool it.
Are you going to ride?
I mean, I do, I think it's cool.
I mean, I would like to be able to do it, but I don't know.
I just feel like it's so fucking dangerous.
The mentality of ride like everybody's going to hit you, that's not enjoyable.
That's what they tell you in the school.
Like every car that you see, they pretend they're going to hit you.
They say that in the school?
Yeah.
So you're like super cautious.
Did you go through it?
Yeah.
I had my license for a little bit.
Really?
Yeah.
I got, when I transferred my license to Illinois, I failed the motorcycle test like eight times
and there's like, well you're clearly not going to pass this.
So I just, I lost it.
So fucking way.
Whatever.
Yeah.
No, I don't know.
I like the idea of it.
I mean, I like the idea of being able to hop on a Harley and, and cruise.
I mean, it sounds cool.
Like I would love to be able to pull up the fucking podcast on a Harley.
And yeah.
But it's just fucking.
I mean, that's it.
Like, where do you go beyond that?
That's it.
That's it.
That's it.
You're just going to go like a quarter mile.
Yeah.
That's it.
I mean, it's a, I mean, it would be a cool hobby.
Like to get into, like it would be an extra, like, like you, like getting a beat pad and
downloading, uh, Fruity Loops and yeah, it's just something to do studio and try to learn
something new.
I mean, it would be, it would be a cool thing to like, I would like to like customize a bike
and have it and just like cruise it just for, you know, just a weekend warrior once a month.
Just like cruise it down the beach or go somewhere and, and do that.
But it's just, I don't have room for it in my life right now.
Yeah.
You're already doing so much.
Like what else?
What else are you going to do?
And I have a kid and like, you're getting a pool.
I'm getting a pool.
That's enough.
Pool season, bro.
I enjoyed my pool before I'd, I'd buy a fucking Harley.
That's enough.
Do all that.
Yeah.
Cause I don't, I don't just want to, like if I bought one, I wouldn't just want to buy
one.
I would want to like customize it, make it look sick.
I would want to make it like the undertaker Harley.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I'd want to make it look super sick.
Like really sick.
Yeah.
I don't want to go all out.
Just like I'm doing with this pool, which is bankrupting me.
Well, I mean, but it's a pool.
It's something you get to look at and enjoy every single day.
It's my own little personal tropical paradise in my backyard I get to come home to every
day.
Do you want to be on a pool?
Huh?
What are you going to do?
No.
Hell no.
You know?
No, bro.
You just get like the above ground with the liner.
Like, yeah, it's pool.
It's water in my backyard.
Bro, the worst thing about the fucking pool is that you're already spending X amount of
dollars to do the pool itself and you're getting like the big pool is six feet deep.
You know, a certain size, you're at like 50 grand for just the pool and like, oh, do you
want the water fountain?
They're only 1700 bucks each, the little fucking water fountain.
That point.
Fuck it.
What's an extra four grand?
What's that?
Fuck it.
Oh, okay.
Well, we'll do that three weeks later.
Oh, by the way.
By the way, I mean, you might just want to like pave, do pavers on the inside of the patio
also that match the rest of the pool.
Really tie it all together.
Because then you're going to have a step down and it's going to be fucking awkward.
And who wants that?
Who the fuck wants that?
So, I mean, okay, what's the price of the pavers?
Five grand.
Like, oh, let me talk to the wife.
Yes, we want it.
Obviously.
We're throwing in an extra five grand for the pavers.
We're getting the pavers.
So now we're like, we're up an extra 15,000 over budget and we're doing the whole goddamn
thing.
And the problem is like, you can justify it like, oh, yeah, I'm putting it into my house.
I'm going to get my money back.
It's an investment.
That's the story you tell yourself to convince yourself that it's fine.
The pool, the reality is in this area, the value of a pool, if you have the same exact
house without a pool, with a pool, it's only about 30,000 bucks extra.
So whatever you spend on a pool, 30 grand, you'll get back there above above 30,000.
Whatever you spend above 30 on a pool is basically just lighting on fire.
Are you within that scale of fuckery?
I am.
The pool is, I'm already about $60,000.
Holy fuck, bro.
What are you filming that thing with?
So 30, I'm lighting on fire basically.
God damn.
The fuck it, dude.
I can't wait to come over.
Everything can't be objective, analytical.
No.
Sometimes you just gotta.
Sometimes you gotta do shit emotional.
Pure enjoyment.
Yeah.
What's wrong with that?
YOLO, bro.
YOLO it.
Fuck it.
I'm in my early 30s.
I want to enjoy life now.
Yeah.
I want to enjoy the fucking walk.
Yeah.
At least I don't have any student debt.
Hell, yeah.
You don't have any, right?
Hell, no.
Good.
Nope.
Almost every guy I have on here that's like a filmmaker who went to full sale, I've had
like four people on here that went to full sale and they all say they owe like 50, 60
grand back.
Yup.
People that go to Ringling fucking 100 grand easy in debt.
Is it the Sarasota College?
Yeah.
I got none.
I had, my parents had Florida prepaid.
My parents, I had that too.
And then I had Bright Futures.
So I actually got.
I didn't have that.
I got paid when I went to college and I just spent all like, I'd get money back.
So I'd get like a couple hundred dollars a semester for like whatever.
And I just like spent it on guitar gear.
Really?
That's pretty sick.
Bought amps, guitars, cool shit.
I had, I had prepaid, Florida prepaid, but I got the, I did the thing where you like
get the money.
Like I didn't go to college.
So I just got the refund from the state, but it's only like 20% of what they originally
put into it.
So you don't have debt and that's the most valuable thing you can have going into any
career.
Yeah.
Cause it didn't like force you to do something that you didn't want, you know, help you start
all this shit.
Yeah.
Well, I also didn't go into anything with debt.
Like I didn't, I didn't like create like a business that is based on money owed back.
Like I started everything from money in like, like, let's make money before we spend it.
Let's not borrow a bunch of money and get investors and, and, and pay ourselves before
we're actually making money.
Right.
And that's the thing about like this kind of work.
It's like, it's very little overhead for like making content and like being creative.
Yeah.
So a lot of it is just like fucking off the top, which I really appreciate.
Yeah.
We're rare.
We're right on here in Florida kid.
It's not like California up North and Silicon Valley where everything was basically just
going to go into a lunch or a dinner and raising a couple million for your idea.
Yeah.
And we moved here from Chicago's Sam kept her job.
She got a fucking raise because of the taxes were so different between, oh my God, a couple
extra hundred bucks a month.
Really?
Yeah.
Taxes are crazy up in Chicago.
Really?
Oh yeah.
Are they as bad as California?
Never been.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know what, I don't know what like the numbers are as far as like, um, it's like
$13.
Which part of the, like, which part of the, that's, that's my gauge for things like how
much is a pack of cigarettes, a pack of cigarettes in Chicago is like $13.
That's a lot.
A pack of cigarettes.
I don't think I've bought a pack of cigarettes in, I have no idea what a pack of cigarettes
costs.
Years.
I just bomb them off people when I smoke.
I just bomb new ports off Shane.
I just bomb new ports off Shane whenever I smoke cigarettes.
Yeah.
Bro, smoking cigarettes is underrated.
What do you mean?
People like to hate on smoking cigarettes.
Cigarettes suck.
Cigarettes suck.
Because.
And I worked for fucking Marlboro.
I know you worked for Marlboro with Leo Burnett.
You did a whole like ad campaign for them, right?
Yeah.
You designed, what did you do for them?
The displays behind the counter at like the, at the convenience store when you go, like
you know where all the cigarettes are?
Yeah.
So like, you know, I have like the big banner up top, it's like Marlboro.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I designed two of those that went nationwide.
That's fucking sick.
And like all like the fucking signage for every convenience store in the country.
Hey, did you ever go into a store and see one of your designs?
Oh yeah.
That's fucking sick.
I came home one time and went to the corner store and I got a picture of me behind the
counter.
Really?
Yeah.
Hell yes.
Hitting it like that.
But yeah.
Cigarettes suck.
Cigarettes are underrated though.
They brainwash you dude.
No, no, no.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I get all that.
But having a cigarette every once in a while, nice.
Yeah.
Can you agree with that?
I can agree on a cigar.
What about a cigarette?
No.
No?
No.
Cause it's like the Larry David thing.
You smoke a cigarette different than you smoke a cigar and you're smoking a cigarette.
You know, it's like a thing.
No.
There's like a thing to it.
You take a big fucking hit of a cigarette, you inhale it and it gives you a little bit
of a head rush and you get energy from it.
It gets the neurons fired up in your head.
When I smoke a cigarette, but when Shane comes over.
That's just the oxygen cutting off and you're fucking getting lightheaded in that big ass
fucking dome.
That's what that is.
No, bro.
I'm telling you, when Shane comes over and I smoke one of his new ports before I do
someone like the crazy podcast, I'll feel like more just dialed in and laser focused
when after I smoke a cigarette.
Something about the nicotine.
I don't know if it's the nicotine.
I don't know what the chemicals or the sciences of it, but something about it just like really
gets me fucking on fire.
Just one.
All I need is one.
You should start smoking more.
One.
No.
I mean, you don't need to start smoking.
You don't need to.
I mean, if you go and buy a pack of cigarettes, you've gone too far, but it's okay to bum them.
It's okay to have a cigarette on occasion.
If you go out to a bar, you're saying if you get it from somebody, it doesn't count.
Exactly.
But where does that line stop?
Oh, I don't have the bag on me, but I'm going to just go do a couple of bumps.
That gives me a lot of energy too.
Oh, it's not, these aren't my pills.
I just took one from my friend.
It is about the same.
Yeah.
You could say it's the same thing.
You're not buying the shit.
I didn't spend any money on it.
Yeah, you didn't spend any money on it, but you just benefited from it.
But I could say like doing a couple of bumps when you're drunk is beneficial.
If you've got to drive home and you're wasted, you've got to do a couple of bumps to get
you home.
What's the harm in that?
Where's the harm in that?
A little cocaine.
I mean, you're not doing it every day.
You're not abusing it.
You're not a cokehead.
I'm not buying it.
You're not buying it.
I'm not holding it.
You're not holding it.
You're not selling it.
You're not, whatever.
I mean, I think cocaine should be illegal.
I mean, legal.
Cocaine should be legal.
Why do you think it should be legal?
Because if it was legal, it'd be safer.
If it was regulated by the fucking FDA and the government said, hey, you want to buy
cocaine?
Yeah, you can go.
Do you know you can get prescribed cocaine?
I learned that on a podcast.
Cool.
You can get prescribed cocaine legally.
Where?
Anywhere.
Like it's a, there's a medical condition.
I forget what the fuck it is right now.
Maybe you can look it up, producer.
There's a way you can go to the doctor and if you have a certain medical condition,
you can get prescribed cocaine.
I was listening to a podcast.
I have anxiety.
Does that work?
Like with a weed card?
Hamilton Pharmaceutical.
You know Hamilton who has the show about doing drugs?
Yeah.
He said it.
He said that he'd met a guy.
Hamilton said it.
Yeah.
He's kind of the authority.
He's the drug god.
He's the drug lord.
He's the drug lord.
He's the drug overlord.
Yeah.
But no, no, no, if cocaine was regulated and it was safe and it wasn't cut by some fuck
lord in his, in, in a trap house, cutting it with fucking borax and it was actually
safe to use under certain circumstances, like a cocaine bar.
Not recreational.
Not recreational?
What are you talking about?
Like a hookah bar?
And there was a limit.
If you're fucked up, I mean, it'll blow your mind the amount of people that Sweet
P knows and her cousins know that are like in their twenties that do cocaine every night
of the week.
It blows my mind.
It does.
Coke.
It's insane.
Still.
I never realized it.
I never realized it.
I never realized it.
Why do you need to be 60 years old doing coke?
You're just a fucking death wish, bro.
Dude, I never realized how many people did it.
Yeah.
It's fucking insane.
Yeah.
It really blows your mind when you go out somewhere casually and you just see people
like doing coke or you like see people in the bathroom, you see a baggie somewhere or
you see like somebody in the bathroom, you're just casually going to the bathroom and you
hear somebody at the stall doing like, yes, yeah, yeah.
Like why does this surprise me so much?
Yeah, we're the weird ones because we don't do it anymore.
Right.
We don't do it anymore.
Yeah, but it's so surprising.
Like, but when we did it or when I used to do it, like back in the day when we were younger
and we'd go into a fucking bathroom stall and sneak a couple of bumps in, I always thought
like we were fucking breaking some crazy law or we were being so deceptive.
But now I go to a bar and people don't even give a fuck.
No.
They do it right out in the open in line to the go to the bathroom.
Yeah.
They don't even need a stall anymore.
It's just a little whatever.
So what I'm saying is like if it was, if it was legal and all of the shit was, it was
safer and not cut with like really dangerous things and you know, it was regulated like
if you didn't have to go to a drug dealer.
It was taxed and regulated.
It was taxed and regulated.
Maybe your doctor only gives you an eight ball a month and you got eight.
I got to conserve this eight ball for the month.
That ain't happening boy.
I tell you that much that eight ball ain't lasting dog day.
That's the problem with it.
That's the problem.
Once you start, you can't stop.
Was it one's too many?
One's too many and a thousand ain't enough.
A million boy.
A million ain't enough.
That's a fact.
Dude, I don't understand how so many people like the guy fucking Billy Corbyn I interviewed,
the old school people who like from Hollywood, these movie producers, people who make all
these famous documentaries, they claim they never done cocaine.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I mean, there are people out there, but I feel like a lot of people just aren't coming
to terms with the truth of their past addictions or maybe they're still doing it and they're
just like, oh, no, I don't do that.
Yeah.
How are you going to be around all that and like do the film and like not be a part of
it?
Don't you want to see what all the fuss is about?
No, you don't need that.
You made the cocaine cowboys documentary, the one of the most famous cocaine real life
documentaries in the history of the world.
And you're connected with like the sweetest.
You live in Miami.
The best cocaine in the world is just like coming to you and you're meeting all the people
that have the connections than anybody.
But never had the interest to just give it a whirl.
That's some willpower if that's true.
That's some willpower or some shitty lying.
What do you think?
Do you think he was lying?
Yeah, I do.
You don't believe him?
I don't believe him.
I feel like you can see through people.
I feel like once you do drugs and like you talk to people about doing drugs, you can see
it.
When you make eye contact with somebody, you can tell if they've been in it.
It's weird because everyone likes to talk.
No one has shame in talking about doing any other kind of drugs, like smoking pot, taking
mushrooms, doing acid, those kind of drugs, like psychedelic drugs.
But when it comes to uppers, it's like they avoid it like the plague.
Nobody wants to admit to taking them.
What do you think that is?
I don't know why that is.
But nobody wants to admit to ever trying cocaine.
I think it's just got such a stigma to it.
Why?
It's just the way that it's talked about in the news and the way people discuss it.
It's not in the news?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, how do you hear about it?
Whenever people talk about it, it's like cocaine is this awful thing and the drugs
led to murder and then the blah, blah, blah.
It is kind of like a gross thing.
You snored it.
It's kind of gross.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It was fun.
Snorting is kind of safe.
I'm grateful.
I don't do it anymore.
I'm grateful.
I did it.
Cool.
That was all about it.
I think it's cool that we got out of our system early.
Some people are nerds and they don't get exposed to it until later in life, like in their thirties
or forties.
They try it for the first time and it gets so much to ruin at that point.
If you're trying it that late, you're a fucking loser.
If you tried it and got it out of your system in your early twenties, mid-twenties, then
I feel like that's fine.
I feel like that's normal.
The people that try it in their thirties are the people that end up like it really hits
you hard.
Yeah.
They could be like, wow, I've been sleeping on this for way too long, better makeup for
last time.
Yes.
And then you just lose your entire life completely.
Yeah.
Instead, we almost had some near-death experiences in our twenties from doing too much cocaine.
We learned our lesson.
We went through the real world.
We didn't know Michael Rappaport's over here.
No, we're living.
We're living.
Fuck yeah, brother.
I'm doing it, man.
But about legalizing shit, when I got my card in Illinois, a couple months later, I guess
ketamine became legal, and like, get your ketamine card today.
Wait, what the fuck is ketamine, actually?
I have no idea what it actually is, but it's just a similar kind of stimulant that just
gets you super fucked up, apparently.
It's a horse tranquilizer, I think.
Is it the shit people talk about?
No, no, no, no.
That's spice.
In prison, people smoke spice.
Have you ever heard of the stories about that?
Uh-uh.
Okay.
Yeah, I don't, never mind.
Spice is the fake weed, right?
It's fake weed, yeah.
They smoke it in prison, and they start having seizures after they smoke it, and they freak
out.
I have no idea what ketamine is.
Ketamine is.
Not prepared to go in-depth with it, but I mean, it's just like, I think at some point
everything will be legal, to some extent, or decriminalized.
Have you ever tried smoking crack?
No.
I got offered crack once.
Really?
I had a photography job that I went and took pictures with this guy and his fucking family.
He picked me up.
Should have been a huge red flag right here.
8 a.m.
Oh, you told me this.
I told you this before.
Fucking dude picks me up in this fucking beat-or-ass Astrovan, 8 in the morning, in Chicago, standing
on the side of the street, him, his family's in the back, I get in the front seat, there's
a cooler in the middle, he cracks a beer on the seatbelt that he's not wearing and gives
it to me.
So we just start drinking on the way to the thing and we just keep drinking all day and
take some pictures, yeah, cool, whatever, get lunch, go home, and then he's like, alright,
I'm going to take him home, and so we go out to the car and then there's this homeless
guy that lives on the block, too.
He gets in the car, okay, this is cool, I guess, oh yeah, he's got a homeless guy.
I guess he's like his crack buddy.
Whenever he wants to go smoke crack, I guess you don't want to smoke crack alone.
This was in the afternoon.
This was early afternoon.
So he drives me home, stops at the bank, gives me money, and he gives me the money,
and he goes, so me and my guy back here, we're going to go smoke some crack.
You can keep this money or we can go spend it on some crack and smoke it together.
I think I'm going to go home and take my money, I really appreciate this, you guys enjoy
the afternoon.
Oh my god, that's a great fucking story.
One of the many twists in Chicago.
In Chicago.
This is the best.
I've never been offered.
Family photography night.
I've never been offered, but I always thought that I would want to try it before I die.
I want to know what it's like, all the jokes and all the stand-up, all the Dave Chappelle
that I've watched.
I want to know what the fuss is all about.
It's not going to end well.
No.
There's never a story like, he smoked crack and then he really turned his life around.
No.
It's usually like, it's got to be just like doing a lot too much coke.
Maybe.
It's got to be the same, it's the same thing chemically, right?
It's got to be different.
It's got to be different.
There's no way.
It's way harder and it wears off way quicker.
That sounds terrible because coke already doesn't even last as long.
Exactly.
Why would I want this to be even more like, gotcha.
Gotcha.
Gotcha.
Yeah, you're right.
That's a good point.
Now you need more.
Don't smoke crack.
That's a good point.
I'm not going to smoke it.
Don't smoke crack.
Don't smoke crack, people.
Smoke cigarettes.
One cigarette.
One cigarette.
Every once in a while.
Occasionally.
Don't.
Enjoy a cigarette.
Don't smoke it.
Don't buy a pack of cigarettes.
That's a good start.
Criticize them for buying the pack.
But then take one and smoke it.
Take one first, then criticize them because you make fun of them.
As you're smoking it.
Yes.
Yes.
So that way you're on their level so it's like, hey, I understand what you're going
through because I'm smoking too.
Bro, watching Mad Men made me want to smoke cigarettes.
Watching people smoke cigarettes makes me want to smoke cigarettes.
Can you relate?
I mean, it's just all the trigger, like it's, again, it's just like the habit.
You see people smoking and you see people enjoying it, like it triggers that thing in
your brain.
It's like, oh yeah, I do like smoking cigarettes, or oh yeah, I do like drinking, or oh yeah,
I do like fucking doing drugs, and like whenever you see people doing it in movies, it triggers
it in, yeah.
This is my first drink in like a month, and I haven't smoked weed in like three weeks.
Damn.
Any reason in particular?
Yeah, I had a like a panic attack three weeks ago.
I smoked too much, I took a fucking edible, and I was like, I had, I was in bed having
like a fucking panic attack, and it was the worst thing ever.
I'm glad you made it through.
Went too far in the edible, bro.
I don't fuck with the edibles.
Went way too far.
I've never been that fucking disturbed.
Did you almost go to the hospital?
No.
No, I just sweated out, I sweated out, and I was like, I'm fucking done with weed for
a while.
Just rode it out.
I'm a lightweight when it comes to that shit.
I feel like you never learn your lesson though.
No.
You always fall off a cliff eventually later.
You'll learn your lesson for a couple months, and then eventually you'll fuck up again.
That's your style though, like too much all at once.
Yeah.
That's my style.
There's no, there's nothing in the middle, bro.
You're either like-
Like gas, no break.
You're a fucking all gas.
You're the same way.
I've toned it down a little bit.
You're the same fucking way, bro.
I've toned it down a little bit.
You're all or nothing.
Yeah, I can handle it a little bit better though.
I can ride it out.
Just get a little quiet.
Yeah, we have addictive personalities.
Yup.
Yeah, we do.
Fuck it.
I think that's like a part of being like a hyper creative person too, is just like,
I don't know, is it like something to help like calm the chatter, and like the overthinking
of everything and overanalyzing?
Yeah.
Yeah, the overanalyzing is a fucking problem, dude.
Yeah.
Big problem.
Do you think way too much about nothing, and then it gets in your way?
And you think the weed helps with that, but it just makes it worse, honestly.
Yeah, because then it like really makes you think about it, and then you go like, start
really going inside and seeing those things.
Which is, I mean, that's the biggest thing about, the biggest difference between shit
like coke and weed is because you don't really get anything from it when you're done.
You smoke, if you get really high, at least you kind of like, you take something from
it.
You're like, oh wow, I realized this, or like I thought about that, and you can remember
it after, and you're like, oh that actually made sense that I thought about that, because
that's an actual problem.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It's like pulling weeds, kind of.
Yeah.
But with fucking doing shit like coke, you don't really get anything from that.
You're just like, I fucking wish I knew, I'm never doing that again.
You're just stamping in the garden.
Yeah.
You're not pulling the weeds.
All you're doing is fucking stealing all of the dopamine from the next week, right
now.
Fuck.
It's the worst.
I know a lot of people who are very successful and function off it every single day.
Yeah.
It becomes habitual.
It's like caffeine for them.
Yeah.
It's like they need it to function after a while.
Your body gets used to it, and it's like a part of your body's chemical balance.
I wonder if it's a, do you think it's a, I mean do you think normal people know as many
people, like know the amount of people in their circle that like regularly do that shit,
or do you think it's just because of the area we live in maybe?
It's everywhere.
You think?
Yeah.
I've lived over other places, and I've seen just as much cocaine used.
Shit.
I've seen a lot of people in fucking like meeting rooms, like every Friday, hey, let's
party cool.
Everybody starts drinking or whatever.
Like people duck off to like a backboard room and fucking-
Really?
Hit a couple bumps.
Yeah.
I don't know, I don't know because I've never left this town.
It's the creative center of the universe, bro.
It is the creative center.
You got no reason to leave.
Seminal is the creative center.
I'm like the only person, me and Amato, no, Amato even fucking left.
He left.
Amato left.
I never left Seminal, bro.
I came back.
You did.
Twice.
When are you leaving next?
I think I'm here.
You think you're here?
I'm here.
I'm in it.
It's a great base.
I like it here, bro.
It's a great base.
I mean, you could travel anywhere around the world, but living here and having this area-
I mean, it's easy to say I told you so now because everybody's moving to Florida right
now because of the fucking pandemic.
Yeah, because it's like everything's open, and it's like nothing's even happening.
And now everyone uses excuses like, oh, it's better because it's open, but-
Oh, the taxes are better.
The taxes are better and all that, but now they use that as excuses, but the only people
who really benefit from that are people like Tony Robbins, who have like an insane amount
of money, who save- Tony Robbins probably saves like $100 million a year by living in
Florida instead of California.
But this part, bro, this part of Florida is really great.
I'm a fan.
It always- it sucks you back, and it's like, you know, we've been around, go places, you
see shit, but like home is home, and this is a good place to be.
And it doesn't matter like after seeing what I've seen and like the places I've gone and
worked and shit, it's like you can do anything from anywhere with the right attitude.
Like you don't need to be somewhere physically to do something cool.
You just got to be in a good place mentally and like have the right attitude and like
want to do the work, and you can do shit from fucking anywhere.
Nobody's going to an office anymore.
It doesn't matter.
You don't need to be in a fucking city anymore.
That's why I feel bad for people like Mark.
Why's that?
Because like, I mean, people like me and you and Danielle, we're just like, we don't- we
like- yeah, we don't have to go to a fucking office anymore.
We can work from home.
We like working from home.
Like subcontractors, people who do creative work, people who do whatever, employees of
creative companies, they get to like- they love working from home.
They hate the fact they have to go to an office.
But I also sympathize with people like Mark because they like- Mark created that big ass
office downtown, the great beautiful place and he was like- it gave him life to see employees
go in there every day and it gave- that was literally like his oxygen.
And now it's like left.
It's just like a rug full of water.
And people don't want to go there, bro.
People do not want to go in there.
And I feel bad for people like him because I can relate to him as much as I can relate
to people like, you know, myself, you and Danielle, you know what I mean?
So it's weird.
It's a weird- it's a weird thing.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I feel bad.
Because I think there's something to like going into an office.
I do miss the like connection with people and like as much as like I used to fucking
hate to like, hey, how's your morning going?
Oh, hey, what's up?
It's like, motherfucker, we just talked like six hours ago.
It's like-
Oh, it's so funny.
Give me a minute.
When Danielle first met you, she called me or she texted me right after the time she
first met you.
She goes, why the fuck are you and Luke?
Like, why do you guys act like the same person?
You guys have like the same demeanor and the same like shitty sarcastic tone.
We spent a lot of time together.
We spent way too much time together.
That was so fucking funny, bro.
That rules.
That was great.
That was a funny-ass thing to like read, just to hear her like make that connection.
Because like I felt like when I would go into the office, like prior to like us linking
back up, I would go into the Hoth maybe a day a week, two days a week.
Whenever they had free lunch?
Whenever they had free lunch.
Free lunch Friday.
I would go in and even though I went there one day a week, I felt like that.
Like how you described.
Like I'd walk in there, I'd be like, of course I would stroll in at 11 o'clock.
Yeah, everyone else has been there since eight and I'd be walking in and seeing everybody
like in their little cubicles, doing their own thing, like in their own little worlds
with their dogs and their cats and their whatever the fuck they have.
They're flair.
And I'm just like, I don't fucking want to even make eye contact with anybody.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to fucking be here.
Blinders.
But at the same time, there's like a huge benefit.
It's like doing this, like walking into that studio is the same thing for me.
Walking into that office and passing all those employees and saying hi to people is the same
thing for me as sitting down here and having like a four hour conversation with somebody
I don't know.
Yeah.
It's like the same uncomfortable thing feeling where like I don't like it, I'm uncomfortable
with it.
I don't want to do it.
I get something from it.
It shakes you up a little bit.
And I think the thing that you miss about it now, it's like, it's really great to like
have the option to hate something when it's just pushed in front of you.
It's like, here's this thing.
I don't like this thing, but it's here no matter what.
Yeah.
I don't like this thing.
But now it's like taken away.
It's like, actually, I kind of miss that.
Like, why did I hate that in the first place?
Right.
Why did that bother me so much?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You want things more when you can't have or when they're an option or when you can't
have them.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
Discipline is like the biggest thing.
I think I think discipline is is one of the biggest things that I've learned from this
or like learning from talking to people or learning from, I mean, discipline is one of
like the most important things I think until like coming up with creative shit.
Yeah.
Is having is being disciplined about like even a routine or processes of doing shit
or sitting down and trying to get better at something.
Like it doesn't matter how good, how creative you are creative doesn't mean anything.
It literally is like, it means nothing unless you have discipline with it at the same time.
Creative is just like, how many times can you show up and still have the same attitude?
It's talent with no direction.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, to a point by like, anybody can be creative.
It's a muscle, like you said earlier, it's like, you just got to show up and like do
the work and prepare yourself and when I say self, I mean, like your head, like your mind,
your body and like everything, like you can't think of shit unless you're like snapping
and like peak performance and you got to treat yourself like an athlete to be able to think
clearly and to be able to come up with like really cool shit that people want to hear.
It's like, you know, like you work out a lot, you do like the supplements and like you care
about that kind of shit and like you care about like, like brain optimization, health
optimization and it's no different than the way like people in the UFC treat themselves
or the people like at any like elite level treat themselves like, this is a job.
Yeah.
Like I don't fucking drink during the week.
Like I treat my like, I eat super clean.
I stay super hydrated all the time and like I make sure that I get enough sleep because
you know, that's how you perform and then that's how you develop that your brain and
like if you show up, like whatever you want to work on, whether it's like being creative,
whether it's talking to people, whether it's fucking playing Fortnite, like you got to
be in the right state of mind to be able to to create and produce and like rise above
everybody else.
Yeah, I'm super fucking drunk right now, dude.
I had like three of these whiskies.
Bro, you're nodding out over there.
I feel like you didn't hear a goddamn word I just said.
I'm just getting fired up right here.
Dude, your tolerance is so much higher than mine and you're slamming the Bud Light.
I got to back it up.
God damn, son.
How do you feel now that you're not vegan?
I feel good.
What's the difference?
Do you feel any different or no?
How long were you vegan for?
Seven years.
Seven years?
Yeah.
Like strict?
Not super.
So I do like cheese every now and then some shit in the same wasn't around.
No meat.
No, never.
Never?
Never.
We were in it together.
You weren't like I don't go behind her back or anything.
No.
I know you walk into 7-Eleven.
You see those slim gyms staring at you, brother, and you want to snap into a slim gym.
Oh, I see those those greasy glizzies on the fucking roller.
And I just want to.
No, I don't I don't do that kind of shit because like again, it's like it's all
about for me what it was.
Like I went vegan when I started like going to an office and that was a way
for me to like almost like put up a wall between me and like everybody else
because like I also didn't like I was sober for most of the time that I was
like at those places like when I was working because I didn't want to like
make like any like true like I had friends and everything but I didn't want
like those things that like tied me to those places because it was always just
like a pit stop to get to like where I'm at right now because I just wanted to
like learn everything to tie you to those places.
Well, so it's like everybody eats together.
Everybody does like same shit like hey, we're going to go to a restaurant.
Do you want to come with us?
Oh, no, they don't have anything for me to eat there.
Like I'm not on drinks, so I can't go to happy hour.
I'm just going to go home and hang out with Sam.
So it's like my way of just like kind of like I'm good.
But I was going.
What were you saying?
I forgot about going vegan vegan for seven years.
Oh, yeah, you're saying when you were up in Leo Burnett, you went vegan
and it was like it was also a way for you to like disconnect from the people
that were there.
Yeah.
And it was also just a way to like clear my mind.
I was like going through a lot of stuff and I felt like, you know,
changing my relationship with food was a big way for me to also like get off
of like the old habits that I had.
And I just kind of wanted to like cut that like, I don't know.
It's like a really like it's hard to explain because I've never really like
thought about it until right now.
But I think the biggest thing that I enjoyed about like being vegan was just
I felt like it was something that me and Sam shared together.
No matter where we were at because we didn't get to spend a lot of time
with each other because we were always working.
But like I always knew like wherever she was, like we were like in this thing
together. Yeah.
And the thing that broke me was fried chicken because I had this thought
when I was like, do I really want to go the rest of my life without eating fried
chicken? So that's what that's what broke me.
And I don't feel any different.
I feel you feel the same.
Yeah, I didn't get sick when I transitioned out of it.
Yeah, I didn't like a lot of people like to like to hyper sensationalize
like the difference of being vegan and not being vegan.
I mean, I don't know any of the science.
I don't know any of the research.
I don't know whatever, but like I don't feel any different.
I feel good.
I'm also grateful to that.
Like a lot of like one of the things that always really bothered me about it was
like, say you'd go somewhere and somebody would make something for you.
Like, oh, we made this.
And then you have to say, oh, I'm vegan.
I can't eat that.
Thank you for your generosity, but please just put it in the trash.
I'm not going to touch it.
Yeah. And that was something that always really bothered me.
Like having to say no to people's generosity.
And I think that's the thing that I'm most grateful for, like transitioning back
into just eating whatever.
Yeah, I mean, I get it.
I feel like, I mean, I hate eating like sweet pea loves buying the
fucking like publics chicken breasts that are like this big.
Oh, yeah.
No, they were injected with all the most shit.
What animal did this come from?
Right. Yeah.
Some fucking chicken on steroids.
I hate.
I always feel like she eating that, but she loves buying it.
But she doesn't like, it's a good deal.
It's a great deal.
They were a bo go.
It's a good deal.
We're bo go.
You got to look past it.
It's a good deal.
Like, I don't know.
I feel like eating for me eating chickens.
Okay.
Like I don't mind chicken.
Chicken all tastes the same.
Tastes like whatever.
It depends on what sauce you put on it.
Yeah.
Sauce.
But like sauce dripping, dripping sauce on it, on the chicken.
But like, like eating like a good steak to me is like eating a dessert.
Yeah.
It's like, it's so fucking good.
It stands on its own.
It doesn't need anything.
Yes.
And you can do anything like I could just eat like like going to
Ruth Chris with Mark, just ordering the fucking big.
T-bone or the the rib eye with
that garlic sauce butter all over it, dude.
Like there's nothing better than just eating just a big fucking juicy
piece of meat with nothing else.
There's something really cool about just like
eating with a knife to because that's something you don't really do when
you're vegan.
Yeah.
Because every like you just like a lot of beans, a lot of greens, you know,
a lot of veggies.
So it's all just like bowls and grains and you don't really need a knife for anything.
Have you ever gotten like blood work done and like looked at it?
Yeah.
You do it a lot.
Well, I had a health screening at one place that I worked at when I was vegan
and it came back like fucking a one.
Really?
The healthiest fucking person in there.
Really?
And then I got it done again, like a couple of weeks ago.
Like after I've been eating meat for like a year and it's like everything's still
like same.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
I got mine done a couple of like a month or two ago and I had super high
cholesterol and I'm like the healthiest.
I'm like the you're on it.
I'm super on it with what I eat.
Yeah, I pay more attention to what I eat than probably anything else.
Yeah, I'm very conscious, conscientious about what I eat and what I put in my
body and everything.
And I try not to eat shit, trying to eat carbs, try to only eat vegetables and
meat.
And I had really high cholesterol.
So I'm like, what the fuck?
So I emailed this guy that had the podcast.
This guy, Dom, who's a.
Oh, yeah, the the scientist, nutritional scientist, the weightlifter.
He's a yeah, the guy who deadlifts.
Yeah, he's the only person I know who's dedicated his life to nutritional
science and how it affects your body.
And the cool thing about him, like he's his test subject.
Yes.
And he tests everything himself.
He literally tests all these products on himself and test his blood every single
day to the molecule, to the fucking whatever it is.
And I was, I was texting him back and forth about it.
I'm like, dude, I'm like freaking out.
I'm like, I'm going to have a hard attack any day now.
My cholesterol is through the roof or whatever.
And I found out he's like cholesterol is a myth.
He's like high cholesterol is not bad.
Hmm.
It's like, it's been this thing, this propaganda that people have pushed on us,
like for years, that high cholesterol automatically relates to heart disease
when it's not, because there's a lot of, he's basically was showing me that he
basically sent me all these studies of these crazy athletes that do like that
are like marathon runners and triathlon people who are super, super keto.
And all they eat is meat and they don't need any carbs or whatever.
And these are like people that run 10 miles a day when they're not doing
marathons on their off days.
It's a casual 10 and they have super high cholesterol.
I wonder why that is, but it's like some sort of like, I don't know,
I guess it's like a genetic thing or whatever.
But his whole thing was with all his studies, he's been, he's.
Come up with the hypothesis that cholesterol is not bad.
It's a, it's a myth that's been.
Like, you know what, it's not bad.
It's not, not anymore.
I'm going to go ahead and say it, not bad.
But a lot of people, a lot of people agree with him though.
I mean, he's just like a scientist that people can agree with now.
It's like, he comes out, it's like, it's not bad.
And he's like, see, told you.
Yeah.
Now he's like that person.
Yeah.
But it was weird.
Who fucking knows?
Who fucking knows, man?
Everyone's different.
And that's the thing too.
It's like, you can't just do what you think is good because it worked for somebody else.
You got to do like what's good for you at the end of the day.
Like, what makes you feel good?
Yeah.
What does it fucking Bud Light?
Bud Light.
Bud Light, cold beer on a Friday night.
Cold beer, some tealings and some liquid death.
You know what makes me feel good?
What makes you feel good, Luke?
A pair of jeans that fit just right.
Cold beer on a Friday night.
And you know what?
I'm going to turn that radio on.
Luke stir, let your hair down.
I'm letting my hair down.
Oh boy.
And a little time out.
We should make our own country song.
We should.
Me and Amato should make a country song.
Yeah, and we could get Jake to stand in for like the guy singing it.
That open or up song was that music video they did for that was really whack.
I didn't see the video.
I was not impressed with it.
No, I saw beans were being poured on somebody in the Instagram clip.
Really?
Did they pour beans on somebody in the video?
I don't know.
Hey, pull the open or up music video.
YouTube, open or up.
Oh, they actually released the whole video.
It wasn't just the teaser.
They released it yesterday.
I'm glad we're doing this.
This is cool.
This was great.
We should do this more.
We should.
This was actually fun.
Yeah.
Even if we got Shane on here, it'd be really fun.
Like just us three talk.
We talk about like funny shit and we like actually, I think it was good.
I think it was.
Yeah, I was a little like, I was like, I, how can I carry a fucking podcast?
I haven't talked to anybody but my cat the last fucking two months.
It's like, it's like, it's like an exercise.
It's like a mental exercise.
Yeah.
For me, at least because I suck it.
I suck at communicating, but.
And you know what I'm grateful for?
Like we actually got to like talk about shit.
Yeah, because we never actually talk about everything else is so like whatever,
like in passing, right, a text about this, about that.
It's not really like a wholesome communication.
And you know what?
It's like I said, like, can two bros have a conversation in 2021 without it
being on a podcast?
I think my answer is no.
That's a hard no.
Like nobody is having this conversation without microphones in a camera.
Dude, that's insane.
I think that's the title of this podcast.
Can two bros have a conversation?
We'll see if that clickbait works on the 50 people on Patreon.
I don't know.
That's that's a hard clickbait to think about.
Look at that.
Let's watch it.
Let's watch it.
Let's end the podcast by reviewing this music video.
Jelly roll opener.
Volume up, Aiden.
I get the door with the door.
Whippets.
Oh my God, these pubes.
Hey, what's up?
Hey, Sam.
How many times is he going to be jerking off in this video?
Is he drinking basil Hayden?
That ain't country.
That is not.
Is that really basil Hayden?
Look like it.
Danny, I don't think I could turn it up anymore.
I think he has to turn up the TV.
You have to use this, the TV remote.
The TV remote.
Take it.
You want some whiskey?
More.
We got some good whiskey, Sam.
Open her up.
Open her up.
Oh my God.
I want some C-section scars.
I mean, I'm into it.
It's fun.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
For a guy from New York doing country, I'll take it.
But he's been in Florida for like two months
and he's already singing country songs.
I think it's getting to him.
Pissing section.
Do you think this is going to be the song in the summer?
Florida has been opened up like this since...
This ain't even...
July.
You should see Krabby Bills.
This ain't even shit.
That's a light crowd.
First of all, these guys are in Miami
so they don't even really live in Florida.
That ain't Florida.
Miami's not Florida.
That ain't Florida.
That's pretty good.
That's pretty good.
What do you think?
Alright, we're done.
We're done?
We did it.
Alright, let's do it next week.
Fucking nailed it.
Listen to the new Cannibal Corpse album.
What's up, world?
You just watched a clip from one of our exclusive Patreon episodes.
That's right, you can get weekly, pure, uncut content
straight from the jungles of Columbia.
If you want to watch the full episode,
make sure you go to patreon.com slash concretevideos.
Peace.
