We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world.
Andreas Antonopoulos is probably the most qualified
human being on this planet to speak about Bitcoin.
He is a best-selling author, speaker, educator,
and highly sought after expert in Bitcoin
and open blockchain technologies.
He's known for making complex subjects easy to understand
and highlighting both the positive and negative impacts
these technologies have on our global societies.
He's very good at explaining a very complex topic like this
to a dummy like myself, which I really can appreciate.
So without further ado, please welcome
the amazing Andreas Antonopoulos.
Let's do this. Great. Let's do it.
Andreas Antonopoulos, did I get it right?
That's correct.
Thank you so much for joining me, man.
I've heard a lot about you.
A lot of people have told me about you.
I have a very loose familiarity with Bitcoin
and cryptocurrencies in general.
I just had a guy on here two weeks ago
who from the Atlanta area, Rich Clark,
who sort of gave me a breakdown of it.
I watched a documentary, but all that being said,
I still don't believe I fully understand it.
I mean, yes. That's absolutely understandable.
So I'm thankful to have you on here.
So hopefully maybe you can clear up
some of that misunderstanding I have.
Let's see. I'll do my best.
I appreciate that.
So what would you say it is that you do in the crypto world?
And what is your significance to the world of cryptocurrency
and Bitcoin and blockchain and all of that?
I'm the explainer.
Okay.
It's as simple as that.
I tried to take these complex topics
and explain them in simple terms.
The majority of my career in technology,
I have been focusing on education
and trying to explain complex topics
in easy to understand terms.
And I'm a computer scientist by training.
So I'm a technical expert,
but I tried to speak the language of the non-technical expert.
And that's what I do for Bitcoin
and for open blockchains in general.
I believe it came out in 2008, Bitcoin did.
Is that right?
The paper was released October 2008, October 31st,
and the actual network started live January 3rd, 2009.
Okay. So when this first came out,
where were you and what made you decide to jump into this?
So I missed the first two and a half years approximately
of Bitcoin's life.
I was interested in digital currencies
and the application of cryptography
to things like that since the early 1990s.
But when Bitcoin came out,
I didn't really pay attention to it.
So I didn't hear about it.
I seem to remember hearing about this sometime in 2011
and I dismissed it out of hands
because what I read was about a gambling site.
I wasn't particularly interested in gambling.
So I made assumptions and ignored it.
And then in 2012, I heard about it again.
And this time, the article that I was reading
had a link to the scientific white paper
written by the inventor of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
And I read that white paper
and completely derailed my life, my career
and very, very derailed the next four months of my life
as I devoured everything I could find about Bitcoin,
all of the information I could find.
And I spent 16, 18 hours a day reading, writing and coding
and not eating or sleeping much.
So that was a pretty good derailment.
Well, first of all, where did you find this
so-called white paper by Satoshi Nakamoto?
So you can find it on the website bitcoin.org.
And in PDF format as it was published October, 2008,
the article I was reading was on a geek news site
called slash.org, it's an old style geek news media site.
And it was about Bitcoin,
but one of the links in the article was about,
was directly to the white paper.
And so when I read this, keep in mind,
I was primed to get it.
I'd worked for two decades in information security
and distributed systems and network protocols.
And as I started reading, I was like,
okay, this is not what I thought it was.
This is not just a system of money.
This is not just some kind of token thing.
This is not a company.
This is a very sophisticated,
elegantly designed distributed system.
And it seems to have solved one of the main problems
in this field, which is how do you make it decentralized
and prevent people from cheating?
And that just blew my mind
because I knew that a lot of people
were working on that problem.
So I was primed and it pushed all my buttons
and I had that epiphany moment.
As far as like, I like to use the term elevator pitch.
If someone asks you, what is Bitcoin?
Do you have like a boiled down one sentence
summary of what it is, your own version?
In its simplest form,
Bitcoin is the money of the internet.
Once you understand that,
the next step is to understand that it's more than that.
It's the internet of money.
And then it's even more than that as you keep digging.
It's not a company.
It's not an organization.
It's a software system that runs
in thousands of different computers simultaneously
where no one has direct control over it.
It's a collaborative open system.
And it provides a currency and a system of payment
that exists entirely online.
Is there, do you see anything happening in the near future
that's gonna sort of tip the scale
and make this sort of like a widely known thing
that everybody uses?
I think it's important to understand
that it's already being used in some places
and under some circumstances and for some applications
because this is a technology
that solves very specific problems
that not that many people have yet.
And it offers a number of opportunities
and as it matures, that space expands.
Whether or not the financial institutions
start using it or not,
that's a bit like asking which phone company
will start supporting faxes over the internet.
That's not the point.
You know, which horse carriage manufacturer
will start using automobiles
to do rides around Central Park?
This is a system that allows us
to not have financial institutions.
It de-institutionalizes finance.
Just like the internet, de-institutionalize news
or media or entertainment.
So it's like, which record company is going to use
the internet as its main distribution?
Well, kind of all of them, but that's irrelevant
because the whole point is that you don't need
the record company when you have the internet.
And in the same way, you don't need the financial institution
to engage in the acts of finance.
Finance becomes an application
just like media distribution becomes an application.
There is no TV station company
supporting what you're doing right now
because a TV station is no longer an institution.
It's an app you run on your desktop.
So if you think of Bitcoin as that,
as an app you run on your desktop that makes you the banker
and then the question, when will bankers use this?
Doesn't really make sense because they won't.
In fact, this kills banking,
at least traditional consumer banking,
retail banking of the type of a checking account,
a savings account, sending money from one friend to another.
There's no need to do that any more
than there's a need to print out a newspaper
and distribute it in the era of the internet.
So as for broad adoption,
well, at the moment in the Western developed world,
Bitcoin doesn't really solve a problem for someone.
US dollars work, visa cards work, and most people,
and that's about 85% of the population
have access to these tools.
The issue is there's 15% of the population,
some 60 million people in fact,
here in the US who have no access to banking.
And as you go around the world,
that percentage increases further and further.
There are some countries where 75% of the population
have no access to any form of financial service.
And then the really interesting thing is what happens
if for them it's not about access to banking,
it's simply about putting an app on a very simple smartphone
and suddenly that person, no matter where they are,
has the same level of access to financial services
as a licensed broker-dealer on Wall Street.
And that's where things get really interesting.
It opens up the entire space of finance, democratize it,
and makes it available to anyone with access
to a basic computing device and some basic data services,
anywhere on the planet, without vetting,
without authorization, without middlemen,
without any kind of controls and restrictions.
And that really changes
the way we see finance around the world.
So I guess my question is,
what is the incentive for basically
like an average everyday blue collar person
who has a nine to five job or is self-employed,
makes a decent amount of money,
maybe invests in the stock market a little bit,
what is the main incentive for somebody like that
to get into Bitcoin or start investing into Bitcoin?
Well, if they're in the US
and they have access to financial services,
then really investment is correctly the only area
that might have some interest to them.
What is the answer you said, sorry?
Investment might be the only area
that they have interest in.
You know, if you think of someone
who doesn't have access to those things,
simply the ability to send money across borders
to protect their wealth from inflation,
those are other questions.
But let's take a blue collar worker in Pennsylvania
who has access to a simple tracking account,
maybe even has a 401k.
So the real question is, what can they do with this?
The main thing they can do
is have an alternative form of investment
that does not behave like the other investments
in their portfolio.
So right now, all of their investments
are all US dollar denominated in the American stock market
and they're all responding to the same kind of signals.
So they're all very traditional
and they're all responding to the same signals,
which nowadays is basically how much stimulus
is the Federal Reserve doing?
Lots, great.
Not so much, not so good.
And it doesn't really matter which company you pick,
which stock you pick, which bond you pick,
the entire economy is going to the song
of the Federal Reserve.
That's not a very robust system.
It's a pretty fragile system
and it leads to these boom and bust cycles.
And the US dollar loses value slowly,
but through inflation, it loses value all of the time.
So the thing about Bitcoin that's different
is that while it is very volatile,
it's not directly connected to these other things.
So it behaves on its own tune.
And so from that perspective, what I suggest is,
if someone's interested in investing in Bitcoin,
they treat it like adding cayenne pepper to their stew.
A pinch will make it a bit spicy and interesting.
Put the whole pot of pepper into your stew
and you've ruined the stew.
I hear a lot of people who are like,
I'm gonna take all of my 401K and stick it into Bitcoin.
Well, that's probably not a smart first move.
I would start small and maybe see how that goes
and as you gain experience.
But I'm not primarily interested in Bitcoin
for its investment potential.
As an investment, it's a new technology.
It's got some interesting characteristics.
What's really interesting is about opening the world
of finance to six billion people who have never had access.
And connecting the world without barriers,
without gatekeepers, without geopolitical games,
without are you approved, vetted, documented
and politically correct enough to have access
to this system, that is interesting.
That is world changing.
I love the way you describe banks as being like Ponzi schemes
or you say the banking system is very similar
to the structure of a Ponzi scheme.
Can you explain that?
Well, I mean, part of the reason that I have difficulty
explaining Bitcoin is because most people really don't have
an in-depth understanding of how money works
and how the world of finance works.
So if you actually understand how commercial banking works,
how dollars are created, who creates them,
how they're distributed, et cetera,
the system is tilted in favor of those who have
banking licenses and access to the centers of investment
in such a way that they can make enormous amounts
of money taking very little risk.
And they can engage in all kinds of fraud and corruption
and never get punished more than a percentage fine,
which they just wrap into the cost of doing business.
And it's a system that's very easy to manipulate
from the inside.
So it creates a very fragile system that generates income
inequality and absurd conditions of wealth in some areas
and kind of ridiculous poverty trap for many, many people.
Those are not bugs of the system.
Those are the natural outcomes of a system
that is designed and architected in that way.
You will always get those outcomes
because of the way the system is architected.
Those who are closest to the sources of money
can gain an enormous advantage simply by
the features of the system.
So there's a mechanism called fractional reserve banking,
which means that for every dollar of deposits
that is entered into circulation and held by the banks,
the banks can issue $9 worth of loans out of thin air.
So they take the $1 that you deposit
and they issue another $9 for a total of 10
of money that doesn't exist, that they've created
out of thin air, which they lend to you
at interest rates that far, far exceed the interest rates
that they pay on money and make money on that.
Now, if they were also taking enormous risks
with those loans, maybe that might be a smart system,
but as we've seen again and again,
anytime they get into any kind of systemic travel,
they just get bailed out with another bucket full of money
or a river of money or an ocean of money.
And so this is a system that will continuously
transfer value from savers, investors and the poor
in the form of inflation and fees
to those who are at the center of the investment system.
It's a corporate welfare mechanism, basically.
The biggest welfare queens on this planet
were $2,000 suits and work on Wall Street.
Do you think there's any chance of, I mean,
I see, especially the U.S. government
trying to either A, ban Bitcoin
or B, try to create their own Bitcoin
and make Bitcoin like illegal or something?
Every government on the planet is gonna try
and do both of those things to some extent or other.
Some will do it in a very ham-fisted and short-sighted way.
They'll try to go for an outright ban.
Of course, the problem they face is this.
There is no place in which Bitcoin exists.
It exists everywhere on every computer
that ever has participated in the Bitcoin system.
So who exactly do you go after?
It's not owned or controlled by any corporation
or individual.
There is no center to it.
It's a decentralized thing.
It's like saying, let's ban the web.
Okay, which part of it?
All of it at the same time?
How?
And ultimately, what Bitcoin does
at its very fundamental basis is it uses mathematics
to secure the distribution of money as communication,
which means that as long as you can express transactions,
money, in any communication medium, you can transmit it.
I can take a Bitcoin transaction.
I can convert it into emoji.
I can post it on Twitter
and I've just transmitted a transaction.
How do you know it's a transaction?
You don't.
It just looks like a bunch of emoji.
My recipient does.
They'll make sure to get that to the right place
so that it works the transaction.
I can take a transaction.
I can embed it in the color variations
of a photo of six kittens
and post that on a Craigslist ad.
Now the other person can take it.
So bottom line, money is communication.
How do you ban money when money is communication?
Well, the only way you can do that
is by either banning all communication,
which is impossible,
or imposing enormously strict penalties or fines
to people who dare touch this system of money.
And then you run into some other problems.
In countries where the rule of law matters,
banning private individuals
from engaging in legitimate commercial transactions
for legal purposes kind of doesn't make sense.
And if you try to do it,
you're gonna get a lot of pushback
and have to justify why you're doing it.
In places where the rule of law doesn't matter,
you can do that in a very ham-fisted approach
and then everybody up and down the line
is going to ignore you, get bribed, probably in Bitcoin,
turn a blind eye and the game continues
because governments have never effectively banned anything,
really, they try, but saying it's in the law
and actually making it happen on the ground,
two different things,
especially when what you're talking about
is for many people the difference between
feeding their family next month or not,
how much risk are they willing to take?
And so you get into this weird situation
where what you're really talking about
is banning legitimate commercial interactions
between voluntary consenting adults in open markets.
You can't really do that in democratic countries
without cracking down on everything.
So more likely, sophisticated governments
are going to try indirect approaches.
The first and obvious one is propaganda.
Bitcoin is only used by terrorist criminals,
pedophiles and pornographers, as I'm sure you've heard.
The problem with that narrative, of course,
is every now and then you meet a hairdresser
or a dentist who uses Bitcoin
and they don't look like a terrorist pornographer.
So that point, hmm, that creates some cognitive dissonance.
Then you find out that refugees in Venezuela
are using it to fight the regime
and escape from a dictatorship,
more cognitive dissonance, et cetera, et cetera.
So propaganda has been the first measure.
Every time they say, money laundering happens through Bitcoin,
and actually it happens through Deutsche Bank
and Goldman Sachs.
But as you've said in your reports,
where you keep catching them and doing nothing about it,
these propaganda techniques are largely failing
to stop Bitcoin.
Another approach is to make a tangle of taxation around it
or to make it very difficult to acquire
or exchange from national currency
or to national currency.
Of course, the problem with that is
if you cut off the on-ramps and the off-ramps,
people just stay in the economy.
Okay, you stopped me from converting dollars into Bitcoin.
So what I do is I ask to get paid in Bitcoin
and I pay other people in Bitcoin
directly without converting it back to dollars.
So now you've encouraged me to stay in the economy.
It's kind of like if you build a wall on the southern border,
the migrant workers who used to leave every season
because they could come back the next season,
instead stay because they don't know
if they could come back anymore.
Right, right.
There's this finicky thing called unintended consequences
and Bitcoin is a whole bundle of unintended consequences.
So anyway, I think the more likely thing is
governments will try to compete by building things
that they pretend are kind of like Bitcoin,
forms of digital currency that are managed by the Federal Reserve
or the central banks.
In the industry, we call these CBDCs,
which stands for central bank digital currencies.
They're basically a neutered, half-assed attempt
to copy Bitcoin that has none of the characteristics of Bitcoin.
It's not open, it's not borderless,
it's not censorship-resistant,
it's not surveillance-proof,
it's not neutral to transactions,
you can't join it without being vetted, et cetera.
So it's taken away all of the interesting things.
It's kind of like AOL and CompuServe tried to do
with the internet.
It's like, oh, you like the internet?
Well, here's our version.
It's proper and curated and safe and boring.
And so we're gonna see that this is an ongoing battle.
But basically what they're trying to do
is stand in the way of the use of mathematics
and advanced technology by consenting adults
to do commercial transactions
with all of the economic incentives
to bypass all of these controls.
That's not gonna work.
So what would the world look like in your view
without the banking systems we have now?
I mean, everybody is so used to this,
is what we've always had,
is money backed by gold and a dollar, $2, $3.
No one's ever thought of things in terms of value
in any other way.
How would the country or the world look
without banks and only Bitcoin?
What would be the biggest differences?
Well, so money has gone through five major revolutions
since the beginning.
If you start with early debt records
from the Sumerians to shells and feathers and beads
to precious metal nuggets
and then pressed into coins and then paper money
and certificates of deposit
and then eventually kind of plastic credit card stuff.
Surprisingly, a lot of people in 2020
think that money is backed by gold.
I just heard you say that our money is not backed by gold,
hasn't been backed by gold since 1971.
In fact, really since the early 1900s.
There is no gold backing any of the national currencies anymore.
Isn't it backed by oil now?
Well, indirectly, the US dollar is backed by oil
only because there's this kind of deal with the Saudis.
We bomb your enemies and protect your dictatorship
and in return, you only sell oil to other countries
if they pay with dollars.
But that's just a dollar, all the other countries.
And in general, money is backed by economic use.
If there's an economy that uses this currency,
then that creates the expectation
that if you have a unit of the currency,
then tomorrow you can use it to buy something useful like eggs.
That basis is the basis of money, its utility.
I expect this will still be useful tomorrow
because it was useful today and useful yesterday.
That illusion doesn't always work.
Countries run into problems when that illusion is broken
because the money doesn't actually buy as many eggs as you wanted.
Huge inflation, crisis, collapse of government, et cetera.
But for the most part, that's what money is backed by.
Basically a social agreement and habit.
So can it change again?
Well, first of all, I don't think we're going to see a world
where magically everything's going to get replaced by Bitcoin.
Some Bitcoiners do, I don't see that.
I think what we're going to see is a world where we had 194 currencies
each identified by a flag or a queen,
to a world where there are thousands of currencies,
90% of them existing only in digital form,
freely exchangeable and usable on the internet,
a kind of mess, a kind of messy democratization of finance
where everybody can kind of choose to use whatever's convenient at the moment.
And with software, we're going to hide a lot of the nasty details
so that maybe your software changes from one money to another
without you really noticing so that it's not as confusing.
I think that's the world we're going into.
And the reason I think that is because I've seen that happen with the internet
and with previous technologies, like there used to be for TV stations, right?
Now, there's tens of thousands of TV stations,
but we don't really call them TV stations
because it's really just independent programming whenever you want it.
There used to be major newspapers.
Now, they're still there, but they're not as important anymore.
There used to be only one airline per country had it flag on the tail,
just like the currency is today.
Now, if you told someone the only airline that can fly out to France is Air France,
they'd be like, no, that's ridiculous.
Why would you do that?
So the idea that the only money you could use in France is the French money
is also ridiculous.
We just haven't quite seen that yet.
The world is going to get more complicated, more nuanced.
But that also means more democratic, more open,
more accessible to a lot more people,
because governments have abused their ability to control money
consistently, as they do with many powers.
So in the end, that happens at the expense of people
who end up having to jump through all of these hoops
simply to gain access to the main engine of economic activity
and to essentially feed their family, protect their future.
If you create opportunities for that to happen without the interference
through private means, through online systems that are open to everyone anywhere,
that creates a very interesting future,
an initially very messy and confusing future,
but ultimately, in my opinion, one that has much more choice.
Another confusing thing to me is that there's also the original Bitcoin,
which that the guy Satoshi Nakamoto created with that white paper.
But then since then, there's been like dozens of other alternate coins
that people have invented.
Yes.
So is that do you kind of relate that to being like
someone having like a YouTube or a Hulu or Amazon Prime
that creating their own little like spin offs of television?
Yes, exactly.
I mean, but they're using they're using the exact same
program that Satoshi Nakamoto came up with, right?
Just like changing it a little bit.
Only some of them, especially the early ones,
really modified the recipe very, very only only a tiny bit.
And and and then other people tried to improve and modify.
You know, when you design a piece of software that is has
financial implications like this, every decision you make is a series of trade offs.
And some people disagree with the trade offs.
It's like, OK, Satoshi Nakamoto chose to make it very secure
at the expense of making it very not so fast.
What about if we make it more fast, but less secure?
And some people like, yeah, that's a great idea. OK.
So now there's another one.
It's more fast, but less secure.
If that's what you need, great.
And every shade in between on every axis of specialization, you can imagine.
So think of it as first, it was the Ford Model T.
It was black, one color, one chassis, one function.
You want a truck? It's still a Ford Model T.
You want something to run around town?
It's still a Ford Model T. You want it bigger?
Sorry, you want it red? No.
Now, you know, the difference between a Ferrari and an agricultural tractor
that is designed to haul logs through a forest
is so vast that you might not even recognize them both as being effectively
the same kind of automotive vehicle.
And they've made different choices into how they treat the various trade offs.
And so you might say, well, the Ferrari is great.
Not if I want a whole log through a forest.
It would be useless.
It wouldn't get very far.
And my agricultural tractor wouldn't go really, really fast around the Formula One track.
So it really depends on what you're trying to do.
And there is no one fits all purposes
because the purposes are so varied
and because you can't predict what the purposes are going to be.
So this has led to, as we see in many early technologies,
is first you have a prototype that establishes,
OK, this is a viable concept, the Ford Model T.
And then people tweak it in a thousand varieties
and you get this explosion of variety, differentiation.
Everybody tries to make a slightly different thing.
And initially, they're all mostly copies of that,
but eventually they become quite differentiated.
So that's what's happening with this.
The interesting thing is that
once Bitcoin opened the door,
anybody can create a currency.
And not only can they create a currency,
but using this recipe, they can create a currency
that is, from day one, instantaneously,
entirely global, unforgeable, quite secure, verifiable,
runs on lightweight software and a myriad of devices.
And at first has no value, but people might start using it.
So then that begs the question,
how many currencies will we have?
And the answer is a bit like how many YouTube stars will we have?
How many podcasts will we have?
Well, I mean, we're all copying
the same one idea of I have a TV channel or I have a show.
Why? So in the end, you could have
everybody in the world creating their own currency,
just like everybody in the world could create their own podcast.
And the vast majority would be crap.
So for the most part, everyone would just use the most popular currency.
There is a particular statistic distribution
that arises out of these phenomena called the Pareto distribution,
power law or long tail.
We see this with also known as the 80-20 rule.
So 20 percent of the music artists are 80 percent of the market.
20 percent of the YouTube channel are 80 percent of the views.
You have a handful, five or so, who dominate the market.
They have the majority, more than 50 percent of all of the clicks.
And but then what you have is a very, very long tail
that goes off into infinity of these tiny, tiny little
YouTube stars, channels, music artists, books,
whatever the category is, that have one reader or one viewer.
But but there's an infinity of them, right?
That's what I predict is going to happen in currencies.
And in fact, we are beginning to see that distribution emerge.
And it's an it's a natural outcome when you have something
that is socially distributed like money is
and where there will be some affinities, some popular ones
or some ones that are just better.
But there's nothing stopping everybody and their uncle
from doing one. What is the
what is the incentive for me to create my own currency?
Because I get a small percentage of each transaction.
Well, there's all kinds of things.
But yes, of course, if you were
conniving, what you could do is you create your own currency
and then allocate a whole bunch of it to yourself before you give it to everybody else.
That's called a pre-mine in cryptocurrency.
And then if anybody else gets interested in and they buy it
and trade it and give it some value, the many more units
that you have already allocated to yourself acquire value.
It's a bit like starting a company and selling shares to it,
which, by the way, also violates a whole bunch of US laws
if you do it in that way.
So there's been a lot of these kinds of pyramid,
schemey, Ponzi, schemey scams that people are doing
because it's a very easy way to, if you're good at branding,
at marketing, at shilling, at promoting these things,
you can go out and persuade them that what you just built is the next Bitcoin.
In fact, that's what they all say.
And then if anybody pays attention, you can make serious amounts of money.
Don't do this.
It's both unethical and illegal, but people do anyway.
So you should be skeptical.
The really interesting thing is that, in a way,
this is a form of human expression that is as old as time,
because the idea that anyone can create money seems surprising
when you're used to national money,
but it's much less surprising if you walk into a kindergarten
with the perspective of a sociologist or an anthropologist
and you watch kids turn rubber bands and colored wooden blocks
into currency that they use to establish social hierarchy,
bonds, affinity, approval, association, and friendship.
Social beings use the language of value
to establish and reinforce social ties.
So not just humans, in fact,
you can teach primates to do this,
and they will not only readily adopt money,
but they will very, very quickly evolve various uses from it,
not perhaps the best uses.
An experiment that was done with primates teaching them
how to exchange tokens for bananas
resulted not only in broad adoption in the entire primate space
that was being studied,
but very quickly resulted in the invention of armed robbery.
Beat the other monkey, take his tokens, you have bananas,
and prostitution.
Sell tokens for...
Give tokens for sex.
That was so funny. I was just talking to somebody.
Somebody actually just told me about this last weekend.
That's amazing that you just brought it up.
Yes, but what this shows is it doesn't show us anything about money
other than this, and I think this is a very interesting and important point.
Ultimately, money doesn't have value.
Money is a language.
It is a language that we use to communicate value to each other,
and it is therefore an artifact of civilization.
It is an artifact of a social species
engaging in acts of society, in acts of civilization.
As we build larger societies,
the ways that we express value to each other become complex.
You can no longer exchange favors, or here's five chickens,
give me a haircut, I appreciate that you gave me some eggs last week,
so why don't I help you fix your fence?
Keeping track of all of the relationships,
debts, numbers, and opportunities,
and the exchange rates of different types of favors becomes cumbersome.
What humans do is they abstract this in linguistic terms by inventing money,
and we invent tokens that can be used to express that value.
The tokens themselves don't have any value.
They just have to have certain characteristics.
They have to be rare.
If you can find them everywhere around you, then you get inflation very quickly.
They have to be unforgible,
because otherwise people will just start creating them to increase their social status.
They have to be easily transportable, in most cases,
although there are some interesting exceptions in history of the giant
race stones, as they're known.
They have to be instantly recognizable and with a universal unit of measure.
Now, if you think about all of these characteristics,
we've done this with physical things,
and these physical things always have some disadvantages.
Some of the trade-offs we have to make involve getting a government in the game
so they can produce them in a way that is scarce and unforgible and trusted by everyone.
But once you realize that as long as it has those characteristics that can work as money,
then you realize that software can do this very effectively.
And that's basically what Bitcoin is.
It's the recognition that money is language,
a language we use to express value,
and languages encoded digitally become communication media on the internet.
And with software, we can manage the fundamental properties
that ensure that this is good money rather than kind of useless money.
We make sure that you can't just make more of it at a whim,
that you can easily recognize it, that you can't forge it,
that you can verify that it's real, that you can transport it easily,
and that it keeps its value over time,
that you can divide it into smaller bits if you only need a bit of it,
but also bunch it together into bigger bits.
All of these characteristics have been engineered into a software system.
And turns out, because we can tweak these parameters in software,
we can make money that is better than any type of money that has ever existed.
And that's where things get interesting because add to that
that it is open and available for anyone to use without authorization.
And the world changes.
You said it has to be scarce.
Who determines how many Bitcoins there are allowed to be?
And how is it scarce?
That's a great question.
And in fact, the very concept of digital scarcity was a complete oxymoron
until the invention of Sudoshina Komodo.
So the way Bitcoin is produced is by a set of rules
that are enforced by everyone who participates at every step of the way.
And so as new Bitcoin enters into circulation,
it enters into circulation primarily as a reward
for those who are ensuring that the rules are followed
by doing certain security things.
We call those miners.
But effectively, what they do is they verify that every transaction is correct.
It's properly signed by the person who wanted to do the transaction.
They check that the money isn't being spent twice.
They check that the person who is spending it actually has that money.
They check that it was spent at the right time and various other conditions.
In return for doing this work, they get rewarded.
But they also have to put down kind of like a bond, a guarantee, by spending energy.
If they do it wrong, they've already put down the energy,
but they don't get any reward.
So they end up losing.
If they do it right, they've put down the energy, but they get reward.
So they make a small profit.
And this keeps everything aligned.
We don't need to know who they are or why they're doing this
because they're incentivized to do this.
So basically, we buy security with energy.
The end result is that no one's in charge.
And the rules that everyone agrees on, which are written in software,
get enforced by everyone.
The miners check us.
We check the miners.
When I'm running the Bitcoin software, I'm checking everybody.
And everybody's checking all of my transactions.
If we think that one of the transactions is wrong, our software will flag it and reject it.
And then it doesn't go anywhere on the network.
One of those rules is how much new Bitcoin enters circulation.
And that was set at a fixed amount every 10 minutes back in 2009.
And then every four years, it gets cut in half in a grand event that's called the halving.
Three of those have happened.
The last one happened in July.
And it was when the amount was cut to six and a quarter Bitcoin per block, per 10 minutes.
In four years, it's going to get cut to three and an eighth.
Then four years after that, it's going to be 1.7, et cetera, et cetera.
And it keeps decreasing until eventually, 100 years into the future,
the last block that has Bitcoin as a reward in it is issued.
And it only has the smallest unit, which is the Satoshi.
If you do the math, 50 every 10 minutes for four years, then 25 every 10 minutes for four years,
then 12 and a half, and you keep going down that route, you end up with a number that is 21 million.
In fact, it's a few bobs short.
It's 20,999,999,999.999,997, something like that.
Can you break down a Bitcoin into like millions of bits?
A single Bitcoin can be broken down into 100 million subunits called Satoshis
and named after the owner.
So 21 million Bitcoin is 2.1 quadrillion Satoshis,
which all get issued by the year 2140.
And after that, the network continues to operate based on transaction fees,
which pay the miners to do security, but there's no more Bitcoin issued.
Now, interestingly enough, before 2009, scarcity in a digital thing was an oxymoron.
After 2009, a digital scarcity is now the most scarce thing that has ever existed,
because we talk about other things being rare, diamonds, which aren't rare, gold, whatever.
Gold is rare on this planet as far as we know.
No, that's a scam cartel marketing plan by the De Beers Consortium that's organized,
persuading you that they're rare.
Yes, they artificially inflate the price.
They're not.
Interesting side story.
They're not actually rare.
They're at least 10 times more plentiful than the price would suggest,
and they very, very carefully control the supply to keep them from having their price dump.
Gold is somewhat more rare.
We know that because we keep trying to extract it at great price.
But then again, there could be an asteroid flying around the solar system on a thousand-year orbit
that's going to come by the Earth pretty soon that's made of 100 trillion tons of gold,
because gold is made in stars.
So we don't know how much is out there.
Well, we do know how much is out there.
Infinite amounts, right?
So any physical substance is only rare in a certain context.
You can say, okay, water is rare in the Sahara, but not in the Great Lakes region.
It's really interesting when you think of a digitally created artificial scarcity
that is more rare than anything that's ever been done because the constraints are mathematical.
So we can say that the rules of Bitcoin, which make Bitcoin what it is,
say you cannot make more than 21 million.
Those rules cannot be broken without breaking the system
and creating something that isn't Bitcoin, which people would ignore.
And based on those rules, we know exactly how much is going to be issued
right now and in the next 10 minutes and all day today.
And so that gives us a degree of certainty that has never existed.
It's a fascinating design idea.
It's a fascinating invention.
And it has some really interesting implications for economists
who have never seen anything like this.
It's a very abstract idea in terms of thinking of money.
It's not anything like you have to completely restructure
your understanding of money and how money works.
Yes, revolutionary, not evolutionary.
Absolutely.
So every 10 minutes at the current, at the moment,
it's what, four Bitcoin or six Bitcoins?
Six and a quarter.
Yeah.
Every 10 minutes, all of the transactions of the past 10 minutes
or whatever else is waiting to be included in a block to be verified
gets bundled in a block.
A block is just like a bucket that we put all of the transactions
and batch them so they can be recorded on the global system.
So every 10 minutes, a new batch of transaction is recorded
and the first transaction in that batch is one that creates
this new Bitcoin and issues it to the miner who completed the verification.
All the miners around the world are there.
They have like CPUs or computer towers or something
that are processing all this information
from everyone around the world that's making transactions
and they're bundled into one block of information.
That's correct.
And the block inside it has a special number called the proof of work.
And in order to find the special number that fits the puzzle,
there's a mathematical puzzle involved,
you have to spend a lot of energy.
And the only reason you spend that energy
is as a demonstration of your commitments
that you've done the security correctly,
that you've done the verification correctly.
The energy isn't necessary to do the verification
and it doesn't matter how many transactions you're verifying,
that doesn't cost anything to verify them.
The reason we spend the energy is as a show of commitment.
It's the table stakes, quite literally,
to participate in the mining process.
And because only one miner wins each round of 10 minutes
and because they have to spend all of this energy,
if they went and did that and messed up the security verification,
they would end up losing a lot of money.
And that's just a system of incentives.
The only purpose of that is to incentivize people to do security
without having to know who they are or check their work
or chase them around or take them to court.
It's just a mathematical system of rewards.
So how many people are doing this around the world right now?
How many miners are there?
We don't know.
Which is really interesting, again.
It's one of those fascinating things about Bitcoin.
We don't know, we don't know who they are,
we don't know how many they are,
we don't know where they are,
and we don't know why they're doing this.
But we do know why, because it's profitable.
People can say, yes, I'm a miner and I have this warehouse.
Here, come bring your TV crews, let's do a tour.
And we can calculate, by reference,
how much computing is being used
and how much energy is being used to do these calculations
because the numbers are in the blocks.
But we don't know how many different companies,
individuals are doing this.
It's hundreds, thousands.
And anyone can join or leave this system any time they want.
And new people join with new computers
that are faster and more efficient all the time.
And all these miners keep Bitcoin alive.
It makes Bitcoin what it is today.
They are among those who keep Bitcoin alive,
but I'm not a miner,
but I keep a copy of the Bitcoin blockchain on my computers.
Several copies, in fact.
And my computers are also verifying all of the transactions,
including verifying the work of the miners.
If the miners all disappeared overnight,
the blocks would stop being issued,
but I would still have a copy of it to be able to verify it.
Interestingly enough,
and here's another really incredible invention
that happened here.
Sidojina Komodo designed a system whereby,
if more miners join the game,
what happens, practically speaking,
is that as more miners are trying to find this proof
for each block, they produce blocks faster than 10 minutes.
And so every two weeks,
the entire global system recalculates
how difficult it should be to find this proof.
If blocks have been produced faster than 10 minutes,
then it gets more difficult.
If blocks have been produced slower than 10 minutes,
then it gets easier.
So the game dynamically adjusts.
Think of this as you've got a bingo board, right?
Or a Sudoku puzzle.
And there's a bunch of people,
there's 20 people in the room and they're playing.
Well, you run a game every 10 minutes on average.
Now, if you double the number of people playing in the bingo hole,
you'd probably be running games faster
because someone would make a bingo somewhere in the room
twice as likely, because you have more bingo cards out there.
So what you do is,
when the number of people playing in the room doubles,
you make the bingo sheet twice as large.
Well, now it's going to go back to
the same amount of time on average to find one.
If half your bingo player is left,
it would get slower for a while,
and then after two weeks, you'd reset it,
make it half as big,
and then it would go back to the same time.
So the 10-minute heartbeat is what stays stable.
And the number of miners determine how difficult it's going to be.
And if more of them join,
it gets more difficult so that we stay at 10 minutes.
And if some of them leave, it gets easier,
so we stay at 10 minutes.
And that way, that algorithm has grown from one miner,
so Dershina Komodo, on a laptop,
doing blocks by themselves,
to today, an industrial infrastructure
that produces $100 billion worth of computer systems a year
and electricity use is doing the mining.
And over time, through all of these adjustments every two weeks,
they're still producing blocks at exactly the same rate.
And that's all done by the algorithm or the software
that Satoshi Komodo created?
Yeah, it's basically market economics
implemented in a software algorithm.
Supply, demand.
The demand is for a block every 10 minutes,
and depending on the supply,
we change the difficulty price to adjust.
So it'll forever be 10 minutes?
Yes. Unless we change the rules,
but in order to change the rules,
you have to have everybody change the rules
simultaneously and agree to change the rules.
Meaning every user of Bitcoin?
That's everybody who's verifying the rules,
which is every user who's running the software has to agree.
Otherwise, if they see a block that doesn't have
the necessary preconditions to be the correct difficulty,
the correct timing, the correct amount of reward,
they will say,
this isn't valid according to my rules, rejected.
And this is the other fascinating thing,
which is that this runs a radical democracy
where every participant in the system
is deciding whether to accept or not
the results of the computation every block
and every transaction in it.
Based on a set of rules, and in order to change the rules,
you have to have like a constitutional supermajority.
Everyone has to agree to change the rules,
which means that it takes quite a bit of effort
and coordination to change the rules,
which means that you get a very high degree of confidence
that the rules are not going to change arbitrarily.
What Bitcoin is doing today,
I'm confident it's going to do tomorrow.
Why? Because it's very difficult to change the rules.
Now, remember when I said earlier on
one of the reasons or the main reason why money has value
is because I'm confident that the dollar I have in my hands
today will be able to buy me something
more or less of equivalent value tomorrow.
That confidence that it will remain useful,
that it will remain running, that it will still mean something.
Well, so Bitcoin does that with an algorithm.
It makes it so difficult to change the rules
that it can build a long-term expectation of continuity.
And every day that goes by,
people say, oh, Bitcoin's dead or it's dying.
It's going to die.
This time, watch my words, it really is going to die.
And then you wake up the next morning and it's not dead.
And that becomes a narrative.
I thought this thing was dead in 2013.
I thought this thing was dead when they arrested the CEO.
There is no CEO.
I thought this thing was dead when X happened.
There's a website for that.
It's called isBitcoinDead.com.
And you go there and it just displays the word no.
Wow, that just says no in big letters?
It just says no.
It's a bit of a silly meme.
But actually what it tells you is about the narrative
that provides stability and robustness in this system,
which is that no matter how many times you've heard
that this thing is dead, you then get up six months later
and your idiot friend who can't stop talking about this thing
reminds you that it's not yet dead.
And that can confound people's expectations
because very, very serious economists,
very, very serious bankers,
very, very serious government ministers
have told them repeatedly that this thing is dead
or will die imminently.
What do you use, Bit, like every day?
I'm sure you have a lot of people paying you
for various things you do for speaking or whatever it is you do.
Yes.
Does everybody pay you in exclusively Bitcoin?
No. I take US dollars.
I take Euro.
I take EN.
I take Bitcoin.
I take Ether.
I take a bunch of other digital currencies as well.
I get paid in things that have value
and I want to receive at the moment.
And I also pay some of my employees in US dollars,
some of my employees in Euros,
and some of my employees, quite a few, in Bitcoin.
Why?
Because it's a hell of a lot easier for both me and them.
So if I want to run payroll on a Friday,
all of my US dollar employees are not going to get paid
until the following Wednesday.
That's as fast as the banking system will work.
Three to five days.
Business days, not days.
One day our grandchildren will ask grandpa,
what's a business day?
And then we'll tell them stories of when it took three to five days
to send a payment.
And they'll laugh at us.
So with Bitcoin, I have sold my car at 11 p.m. on a Saturday
while the banks are closed,
with absolute certainty that I'm going to get paid
by someone who wasn't even there.
They were buying it for their brother from another state.
Can't do that with banks.
I pay contractors all around the world.
For example, in the Philippines, I have someone who works for me.
And they get paid an hour after I run payroll,
whereas all of my US employees who get paid in US dollars
have to wait another three days, plus the weekend.
But they get paid right away because they get paid in Bitcoin.
So cross-border transactions become very, very easy.
Online transactions and e-commerce becomes very easy.
There's a lot of interesting use cases.
For example, if I get paid in Bitcoin,
nobody's going to do a charge back.
They can't.
That doesn't exist.
So once I have that, if I'm a merchant
and I'm getting paid through PayPal,
I just had the other day someone reverse a charge.
They bought a t-shirt, paid with PayPal,
and they reversed the charge.
The charge happened on August 29th.
I got paid on August 29th,
but I didn't really because they just reversed it on November 15th.
So it wasn't really my money because PayPal can do that,
as can all of the banks.
So if you're a merchant, when do you actually get paid?
Well, maybe in 60 days it's final.
I've had people try to reverse things 18 months
after the payment has been made.
With Bitcoin, 10 minutes, one confirmation, done.
No refunds.
No refunds or anything like that.
I can get people refunds.
I do, in fact.
But it's solely up to you, right?
But it's solely up to me.
There is no intermediary.
It's exactly as if you paid me in cash.
In fact, that's why it is digital cash.
And it has many of the advantages,
except for the fact that I can send it
at the speed of light all across the planet.
So it stays.
So I have the guy Rich, who I just did a podcast with last week.
Basically, he installed this edge wallet thing on my phone.
And he sent me, I think, like five bucks worth of Bitcoin.
This was like maybe a month ago.
And it's like...
This was a month ago.
About a month ago.
So it's like .00044 now.
And it's like $7.
It's worth like $7 US now.
Yeah, Bitcoin's done a bit of one of those price things, again,
as it tends to do.
It could have gone the other way, I'm afraid to sell you.
So that $7 or .00044 Bitcoin I have in my edge wallet on my phone,
that's literally inside my phone.
So that money is basically like cash in my phone.
It's not stored anywhere else.
It's on my phone or elsewhere else.
Well, yes.
The keys that control it are on your phone and nowhere else,
which those keys, which are digital keys, they're basically numbers,
allow you to prove to the entire Bitcoin network that you own that money
and to do a transaction with it.
The Bitcoin itself is on the blockchain, was always on the blockchain,
never left the blockchain.
Rich, was it?
Yeah, Rich.
Rich didn't send you Bitcoin.
Rich recorded a transaction on the blockchain,
the transfer ownership from his keys to your keys.
And your wallet saw that this transfer of ownership had happened,
but the Bitcoin didn't actually move.
All it did was an entry was recorded on the ledger,
which is interesting because what that means is that Bitcoin doesn't exist in a place.
It exists in every place where someone has a copy of the Bitcoin blockchain.
And what exists in your phone is kind of like the 77-digit PIN number
that allows you to unlock that particular chunk of 0.0044 Bitcoin
and prove to the world that you have the correct control over that.
You can present that.
It's the PIN number, that's the value.
Yes.
Okay.
That's what's on your smartphone and hopefully also backed up
in a number of different places.
You have an edge wallet, they do the backup for you, so yes.
Oh, they back it up for you so if your phone gets stolen or something, it's your safe.
You can use your password to recover that backup.
They can't and you can recover it.
Okay.
Well, I think we're running low on time.
I appreciate you doing this, man.
I really do.
Yeah, and I think it's important to say it's okay to feel bewildered by all of this.
To not understand it, to find that the more you dig, the more questions you have and the more
it seems confusing and intricate and detailed it is.
What I want to point out is that for those of us who are kind of my age,
this is the experience we had with the internet, right?
It's like we watched all of these TV shows where people were going,
so what is the internet?
Is that the www?
Or is that the at hotmail.com?
I was like, no, no, no, that's email.
Yeah, but email is the, no, I don't get it.
Exactly what it's like.
Yes.
And if I was to try and explain to someone non-technical how routing works on the internet,
or how TCPIP works, or how SSL works, or how a browser works, then we're really,
or how complex infrastructure like Netflix works, then we're going into...
The important thing is that you don't actually need to understand how TCPIP routing
works or how the protocol works or how SSL works in order to watch something on Netflix.
And so what we need to separate here is the engineering from the use.
Like most technologies that humans build nowadays, we're building on top of layers
of technological evolution that go back millennia.
As a result, the little bit we add on top is on this enormous complex foundation.
And sometimes the bit we add is in itself intricate and complex.
And most people have no idea how it works, whether it's the watch on my wrist,
the car I drive, the TV I'm looking at right now.
Most people who are not experts don't really need to know these things.
But it's important to understand that just because the technology is complex internally,
doesn't mean that it's difficult to use. That's only the early days.
So understanding why Bitcoin works is not the same as explaining how to use it.
And I think for your viewers who are like, okay, this kind of sounds interesting,
but also very complex and why should I care, I think the real answer is
when the internet first came out, you could ignore it. Now you can't.
And it enriches your life if you become adept at using this technology,
whether you are in it or not. The same thing applies with these technologies.
They are fundamental and revolutionary re-imaginings of how we do money,
finance, banking, international relations, and a whole bunch of other things.
And so learning among the first, how to do the basics, how to use it, back it up,
send it, receive it, and be able to recognize the main things, what does an address look like.
Okay, so if I wanted to send some to my friend, how would I do that?
Just like, what is a browser? How do I open it? And then what do I type?
I taught my dad in his 80s how to do these things because that allowed us to connect.
There is value in learning these skills even if you're not going to do much else with them.
And so when people ask, so what do I do next? Do I invest? Do I buy this Bitcoin thing?
I say start with learn and then continue with earn. Learn the skills like anything else because
you don't have to get the price right or if you don't get it right, the knowledge is still yours
and you don't have to time it and you can make mistakes and it doesn't matter.
Then earn. Rather than think about buying or investing in Bitcoin, see if you could do something
that someone's going to pay you for with Bitcoin, maybe sell something at a garage sale. A lot of
the times no one will, but someone might bite and then you got an interesting experience.
And then maybe start thinking about invest, because then you can start using and playing
with this. It's a lot easier to demonstrate and experience than it is to explain and understand.
Right. It's just one of those things you have to do.
Yes, exactly. I can talk to you about how I balance on my unicycle and it looks
fantastical from the outside. But in fact, that will not teach you how to ride a unicycle,
not only that, but I can't actually explain it that well. Most people who use it can't.
You don't have to understand how the light bulb works. You just have to be willing to flip the
switch. Yeah, exactly. That is the case. And there are some places in the world where this
understanding pays very significant dividends. Those are places that are mostly dealing with
crises of confidence, crises of politics, crises of government, or just straight up war, famine,
problems like that, where if you have a mechanism to sidestep the traditional financial system,
get money from abroad, transfer it across the border without getting robbed, and things like
that, that's a game changer. That's a life-saving skill. I'll give you a simple example. If you're
a refugee and you're trying to escape Venezuela or Syria or whatever, along the road, everything
you own will be stolen from you. This is the experience of every refugee on the planet.
And you will arrive with nothing. Well, accept. You can actually store Bitcoin on what is known
as a mnemonic, which is 12 randomly generated words. This is what wallets use as backups.
I can use a wallet. I can install it. I can generate 12 words. And that is basically control of all
of the Bitcoin I'll ever use with that wallet. All I have to do is memorize them. Memorize 12
words in sequence, and then throw away your phone or get stolen at the first opportunity,
cross 17 international borders, land in another country with destitutes with nothing,
find a phone, install a wallet, type in the 12 words, and all your Bitcoins waiting for you.
Wow. And the fact that you can do that
shows you how and why this may be something that, and it's kind of like almost miraculous in some
ways, but at the same time, it's just like so alien to the way money works today,
that it can actually be a game changer and a lifesaver under some circumstances. So,
back to your original question. Why would a blue-collar worker in Pennsylvania want to invest in
Bitcoin? Today, not that many reasons. It's more of a curiosity, a plaything that might be some
very interesting applications in the future. But if you live in a place where a dictator is making
your money unusable or stealing it from you or making you run for your life, this is a technology
that can literally provide an exit and a safe haven for you. Well, cool, man. I thanks again for
doing this. Where can the people listening and or watching it find more of your work? So, I have a
big collection of free videos where I discuss not only kind of the how, but more importantly,
the why, the social, political implications of this technology, why it matters for humanity,
why it's interesting, why I'm enthusiastic, why I'm excited about this. You can find that on
YouTube. My username, A. Antonov, which I use broadly. If you could put that in the show notes,
I'm sure people can find it easily. Beyond that, my website, I've written six books on the subject,
three technical books. The third one is in progress now for software engineers and three books called
The Internet of Money, volume one, two, and three, which are my ideas on where this technology is
going and why it matters. And people can find those everywhere. And I have some cool workshops
on my website where you can take, for example, a free introduction to Bitcoin and open blockchains
workshop where we run through some of the practical things. What does it look like? How does it work?
And so they can find that on my website, Antonov.com.
Awesome. Thanks again for your time, man. I really appreciate it, Andres.
