All right, Billy Carson, thank you for coming back, man.
You are a popular guy.
Hey, thank you, man.
I'm glad I made it.
So what have you been up to, man?
You've been traveling the world.
Where have you been in all over Egypt?
You've been all over...
You went to India, right?
Cambodia.
Cambodia.
Cambodia, yeah.
Went to Cambodia.
We took a huge tour in Egypt.
We took two tours of people to Egypt in October.
So I stayed there the whole month.
And it was about 140 people, two tours, all throughout Egypt, Luxor and Dendera, Abados,
everywhere you can think of.
Took them on a lot of private visits, hidden chambers, hidden doors that have been sealed
for 30, 40, even 50 years.
One place was sealed for over 100 years.
We took them down there, going underneath pyramids, underneath hidden shafts and different
crypts at different locations that have been sealed.
So giving them a real private experience.
And then, right after that, two weeks later, taking another 20 people on a private tour
of Cambodia, Anchor Wat, took them to the largest temple complex in the world, which
people kind of don't really understand the power of Anchor Wat, the moat that goes around
the temple itself, more mass than the blocks that built the Great Pyramid was removed to
make just the moat around Anchor Wat.
Think about that for a minute.
More mass than the Great Pyramid was moved.
The way that they set it up, they knew how to capture the rainwater coming down from
the mountain to create a moat that could sustain itself and also irrigate fields for growing
crops all at the same time from one flow of water.
You can't do that type of digging and moving of mass if you don't know the end result.
So you're talking about the fact that these people had foreknowledge, they had advanced
knowledge and advanced engineering skills to know beforehand that before they move this
kind of mass, the result's going to work out for them.
You don't just say, you know, let's try to move this mass and see what happens.
You know that it's going to work because you have foreknowledge.
It was engineered, right?
Engineered.
Yeah.
This is Anchor Wat.
Yeah.
Wow, man.
Massive, massive temple complex.
So is that the body of water right before it where they were moved?
That's the moat in front of it that goes around it.
Just like, you know, you see the old castles in the middle and the moat protects it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And there's over a thousand temples there in Cambodia.
When was Anchor Wat allegedly built?
This is a good question.
They're trying to say that Anchor Wat was built less than a thousand years ago, which
to me is almost laughable.
The king that took ownership and claimed that he built Anchor Wat, he only lived for 45
years.
That's number one.
Number two, you've had a mature to a point where you can make decisions like building
a massive temple complex like that.
And I doubt that with the amount of ornate glyphs that almost outdo all glyphs throughout
entire Egypt on one building can be done within the time frame of his lifespan.
So I seriously doubt, I believe that he inherited what was already there, that his team went
and cleaned it up.
Right.
He moved the jungle, cleared it out.
He even repaired or replaced some chryroglyphs, branded his name on the building.
But I seriously doubt that he's the founder and the builder of Anchor Wat.
I believe that he inherited what was already there.
We hacked about 50 miles in the jungles of Anchor Wat, going to all the different temples.
It's a lot of, when you go on our tours, I mean, you got, you know, it's 150 miles
we did in Egypt alone in October.
But these sites are amazing.
You can, you know, there's a mountain that we hiked up when you get to the top of the
mountain.
They shaved the top of the mountain and turned it into a sleeping Buddha.
I just saw one image there from Anchor Wat, where they had that famous movie was filmed
there.
I think it was The Temple of Doom or the one with the young lady.
What's her name again?
Laura Croft.
Oh, Tomb Raider?
Tomb Raider was filmed there.
Oh, really?
Yeah, Tomb Raider.
No shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Great place, beautiful.
Now, hard to get to.
It's about 38 hours flying from Florida to get to Anchor Wat.
It's hard to get there.
I'm not going to lie.
Cambodia is right in between Vietnam and Laos, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, you got to land.
The best place to land is land in Bangkok and then fly from Bangkok, a one hour flight
to Cambodia.
So you're going to book a flight.
What is that right there?
That is Ta Pram.
Now, here's what's very interesting.
Boy, I got to get you this image for this podcast.
This image here of Ta Pram, this face, there's a very similar face on an amazing anomaly
discovered on Mars.
So that face right there, extremely, extremely similar to a rock anomaly discovered on Mars
by a Perseverance rover, I'm sorry, not Perseverance, by Curiosity rover.
Curiosity rover?
Curiosity rover on Mars.
On Mars.
Yeah.
Mars is such a crazy, I just had a guy on here like two weeks ago.
He's an astrophysicist, Brian Keating.
And he made, I mean, he is kind of a little bit cynical about life beyond Earth.
He doesn't see, his claim is there's no evidence.
There's no hard evidence of life.
And he made the analogy.
He's like, Danny, what if I told you that there was a planet in the Goldilocks zone
of a star on a solar system that was teeming with life?
And then there was a planet very close to it that could easily inhabit life that was
also in the Goldilocks zone.
Would you say there was any life or absolutely no life?
And you would say, of course there would be life.
And he's like, okay, the perfect analogy to that is Earth and Mars.
Earth has teeming with life and Mars, there is zero evidence of life.
And it's kind of bizarre.
Yeah.
It's really bizarre.
A lot of the new science data has come out about Mars now.
So first they were just saying Mars was a cold, dry rock.
So I kept saying, if it's just a cold, dry rock, why are we spending literally collectively
on the planet as a planet, trillions of dollars to go there, trillions.
Why would you keep spending money to go, who's approving these checks?
Then when I saw India raised 3 million to send a satellite there, I said, there's something
really going on.
When you look into the new science data, you find out that at first they were saying cold,
dry rock.
Now they're saying flowing water.
Now they're saying lakes, hectares worth of lakes of water.
Now they're also saying it's salt water, brine, right?
And they're saying now that, wow, we can see where rivers were and oceans were, and there's
still huge pockets of massive amounts of liquid water.
And then all of a sudden they're saying now, before they were saying no oxygen, now they're
saying, oh, there's oxygen.
If you're like 10 feet or below, it's almost breathable, it will be like being about 14,000
feet above sea level, like being in Tibet, so to speak, or the top of Machu Picchu,
which we can acclimate to just fine.
Then they were saying no, your DNA would unravel because of the radiation because there's no
magnetic field.
Then they're saying now, all of a sudden, wait a minute, we do discover a magnetic field.
But even though it's a little bit weaker, but because of the planet's rotation on its
axis, which is about the same speed as Earth, and it's moving around the sun, it creates
something called bow shock that bends the cosmic rays around the planet, preventing them
from getting down to the lower levels of the surface, allowing DNA to flourish on the surface.
So we keep hearing all these things about Mars, and then the deeper you look into some
of the images on their own servers, you start seeing things that look like plant life, that
look organic, and then a lot of structures that resemble things from ancient civilizations,
quite frankly.
But now when you read the ancient Sumerian tablets, you discover that they had this working
class called the EGG, and in the Atrahasis Epic and the Epic of Gilgamesh, and in the
Enuma Elysian, the seven tablets of creation, these EGG beings were working on Mars and
Earth at the same time, building two breakaway civilizations concurrently.
They were tasked with that load, and they got mad about doing that amount of work.
They wanted to stop working, but they worked for about 200,000 years before they revolted
against Enki and Lil and Anu.
The fact that you can see the similarities on Earth and the similarities with what looks
like potentially collapse structures on Mars, it tells you there's one architect or one
architectural plan that came from one place.
Both places have the same architecture.
In Avery in the UK, there's a place in Avery where you can pull down an ordinance map.
It's close to Stonehenge.
If you take that ordinance map, and I'll send you a copy of it, you can overlay it
on top of Sidonia, and it perfectly aligns the mound, which is an artificial mound built
and massive amount of land moved to build a mound there, and two tracks and paths that
lead up to more anomalies that were man-made on Earth.
When you overlay it on top of Sidonia, the image from Sidonia, it matches those anomalies
perfectly.
So who made a replica of an area of Sidonia on Earth?
And Sidonia means Cairo.
Really?
Yeah.
So we're talking about the same builders.
I was just reading, I just finished rereading this book called Area 51 by Annie Jacobson,
and she was talking about in Nevada, the atomic test sites where they eventually they stopped
detonating bombs in the atmosphere, and they started doing them in these vertical shafts.
And they were detonating thermonuclear bombs in vertical shafts like beneath the desert.
And that's also where they did training for the Apollo missions out in those deserts for
those guys.
They had to get geared up and reenact or rehearse their missions.
And what's crazy is the craters that are made from those thermonuclear bombs detonated underground
are exactly like the craters on the moon.
They look just like that.
And that was one of the crazy things that Buzz Aldrin and Edgar Mitchell noticed.
When you look at the moon images, and I've studied the moon, I mean, I've countless amount
of hours.
I've got so many moon images as a famous dome structure that I discovered that made it
onto TV on two different shows, because it's undeniable a dome structure on the moon.
Now that came from the Apollo 11 video.
So it wasn't an old Photoshopped image or anything anybody could touch up.
It came directly from the archives from a downloaded video stream of the limb coming
back to the command module.
Now what's interesting is when you look at the moon, those craters are never in any particular
angle.
In other words, if I'm floating free floating through space and I've got things coming at
me, it would hit an angle and then make a track until it comes to a point where it stops
and then it would create a crater.
All these things are straight down, perfectly straight down.
There's nothing that slid and moved into a particular angle to create an implosion.
It's all an explosion.
It looks like all implosions, like what you're talking about.
You have these craters that seem to be all almost the same depth.
How is that even possible?
Right.
Yeah, that's crazy.
And so I went to USGS.gov and I downloaded some imagery there.
I sent it to a friend of mine who runs Mars Anomalies.
He's an expert on looking at these USGS.gov ground penetrating images.
These came from the Arecibo before it collapsed and broke a few years ago.
From what?
The Arecibo satellite array that we had in Puerto Rico.
It's no longer functioning, but we have images from it still.
There was one of the largest satellites on Earth that were able to take radio images
of planets and so forth.
We used it and pointed it at the moon.
And guess what we found out?
Underneath the surface of the moon, there appears to be some gigantic, what we can only
assume might be metallic or beam-like structures, 30 meters beneath the surface.
So is it that they only stop there because that's as far as you can go?
I mean, we don't know.
But what's interesting is they all seem to almost have the same depth.
And there doesn't seem to be much of a debris around the rim.
Where did all that debris go?
There's enough gravity to pull it back down, but it just seems to be gone.
So what are those?
We have a black box audio, which I'll send to you so you can play this.
In the black box audio from Apollo 11, one of the astronauts, I believe it was Neil,
said, look at those convex domes down there, or convex craters, I believe he says.
Now, convex, I believe he said convex.
Convex means it's like this.
Yes.
Which doesn't make any sense.
Then he says, I bet the people down there never get out.
And that's on the redacted, printed statement.
They didn't redact that statement, and it's also in the audio.
So that's made it into documentaries that I've done because I discovered that.
So I'll send you a copy of that.
You can play it in this podcast, but what's interesting is that's a pretty blunt statement
to make and knowing that it's being recorded.
And then they actually let it stay in the documents and the audio, the black box audio
from Apollo 11.
Can you find that on YouTube?
You might be able to.
You might be able to.
But I know I have the download link in my Anunnaki group that I can get it.
Pretty crazy.
That's very crazy.
Yeah.
And I think I have the link directly to the source on nasa.gov as well.
I just had a guy in my podcast about a month ago, he, I don't know if you've ever heard
of him.
His name is Chris Bledsoe, and he has these crazy experiences where he sees orbs all
the time.
Like he goes out into his backyard and he has these orbs that follow him and he films
them and he posts them on Instagram and nobody knows what they are.
That's interesting.
It's really interesting.
And he believes it's spiritual.
He believes they're angels.
And he's got this great book called UFO of God where he talks about his like life story
and how he started witnessing these orbs and then he started seeing like this apparition
of a lady.
Anyways, he started getting attention from NASA and one day a guy from NASA, this is
all like documented and confirmed.
Like he is like the most credible.
The crazy thing about him is his story is so phenomenal, unbelievable.
I mean, he posts these videos every day.
He came down here, we went to the beach and he summoned these fucking orbs from the beach.
I watched this shit come out of the ocean.
And it's on video.
It's not just like hearsay, it's it'll be literally filmed it.
And the craziest thing about it is that there's all these people from NASA, CIA and the Pentagon
that started showing up at his house and talking to him and interviewing him.
One guy, his name was Hal Pauvinmire who showed up at his house one day and said, Hey, is
Chris Bledsoe home?
I just wanted to hope to talk to you for to talk to him for a little bit and his son
answered the door and and let the guy in.
And he's like, I just drove from Cape Canaveral, Florida as a guy and he drove to, I think
they were in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
Wow.
So he drove from Cape Canaveral, North Carolina and sat there and interviewed him and his
family for hours and kept coming back over like a couple of times a year to ask him questions.
And he was trying to confirm if the guy's story was full of shit or not, started interviewing
people around him, family members, friends, other people who claimed to be witnesses of
his event.
And long story short, this guy becomes like close friends to the family.
And this guy, Hal turns out he was the guy who was in charge of mapping the moon for
the Apollo missions.
And I guess one day they were having dinner and he's like, he asked him, he's like, how
is like, is what they say about the moon true?
What's the craziest thing that you could tell me about the moon?
And he's like, they're, he asked him about like the dark side of the moon, like, is there
stuff on the dark side of the moon?
And he goes, there are structures that are ancient on the dark side of the moon.
And that's all we know about him.
And he's like, there's structures there and they're ancient.
He didn't tell them anything more than that.
And they're shaped like mushrooms.
Wow.
Well, I downloaded a lot of images from the Clementine mission.
So I was looking into the moon and I discovered a top secret, prior top secret mission called
Clementine.
And I said, I wonder if there's any images on this.
And they had been declassified.
So I got the images from NASA.gov.
Now what's interesting about these Clementine images, when I saw the word, the name, Clementine
mission, I already knew right away what was going to happen.
This thing never came back.
Remember that song?
Oh, my darling Clementine, you were lost and gone forever.
I already put two and two together.
And sure enough, by the time I got done with the end of this document, this thing had supposedly
hit something on the far side of the moon and it never returned, but it transmitted
all this data, gigabytes of data of images, crazy images.
So this Clementine was a low lunar orbiting mission that went to the far side of the moon
and documented that there are structures on that side.
If you remember during one of the Apollo missions, when the astronauts were orbiting
the moon and they got to the far side, you were out of radio communication range.
But all of a sudden, somebody hacked into their comms from that side and it sounded like
music.
It sounded like people chanting in their ears and they were all freaking out.
It's on the black box.
Right, right.
What, you hear this?
You hear this?
What is that?
And it filled up the whole capsule until they got back in the communications range again
then they got reconnected to Houston.
So there's something going on on that far side of the moon.
It's very freaky and it's a fascinating thing to dive into, but it's like...
The guy with the orbs is incredible.
Yeah, yeah, his story's insane.
Because there's somebody in my document, my Black Knight satellite document.
Yes, yes.
And he talks about the orbs and he says that he was able to write some type of a code and
frequency that was able to hack into some of them that they're controlled.
He calls them technology and says they're like advanced probes from another civilization
and that they're watching us utilizing these orbs.
That's what he claims.
Yeah, this guy...
So I had another friend, like a CIA friend of mine, a former CIA guy who is now doing
this show on History Channel and they brought Chris, the Bledsoe, onto an episode of it.
It was called Beyond Skinwalker Ranch.
They put this crazy contraption on his head where it measured his brainwaves and EEG.
And they set up all these crazy cameras all over the ground to try to film these over
to figure out what they were.
And basically they couldn't figure it out.
They weren't satellites.
They measured or they tracked the footage against satellite mapping and FAA records or whatever,
where the planes were flying and where the satellites were.
And it confirmed it wasn't planes and it wasn't satellites.
So they still haven't figured out what exactly they are.
But he has this crazy spiritual biblical story of what it is and he saw this woman.
He's had these visions of this woman who told him there was going to be a great change when
what is the star?
The star of Regulus lines up in the gaze of the Sphinx, she said to him.
Built a Gleese?
Huh?
Was it built a Gleese?
No, it was the star of Regulus, which is the heart of the Leo constellation, or like
the brightest star in the Leo constellation.
So when that rises in the morning on the dawn in the gaze of the Sphinx, she said there would
be a great shift in humanity or something like that, right?
That was what it was, Steve?
It's possible, you know, because...
Yeah, the star of Regulus.
Yeah, the star of Regulus.
The star of Regulus.
Okay, yeah.
Yeah, Leo.
Well, you know, the great Sphinx is aligned with the constellation of Leo, but where
it was two processional periods ago, 36 to 38,000 years ago, at the same time that both
claims to have built the great pyramid in Egypt.
And his father told him to build the Sphinx and put his face on it.
Now the face was changed later on to his nephew's face.
That's why the face doesn't fit the body, it was never the face of a lion.
And there's other Sphinx...
Oh, it was never the face of a lion.
Right, there's other Sphinxes in Egypt with much smaller, but with human faces on them.
When Thoth...
And his proportional heads to the body?
Proportional, that's right.
So Thoth and his brother, Amun Ra, they were clashing.
And then his father said, Anki said, look, you go to the other side of the planet, you
go build something.
He went to Mesoamerica, built the whole Teotihuacan, Chitinitsa, Koba, all those locations.
That's why Teotihuacan is a mirror of Giza, right?
The three pyramids aligned with Orion.
The pyramid of the sun is the same exact size of the base of the Great Pyramid at Egypt.
And the height is exactly 50%, both are built on top of aquifers, it's the same architect.
And so he's doing that, and his brother takes over, you know, early, they rule on processions
of the equinox, but his brother took over before Pisces fully came in.
And he then refaced it to his son's face.
So that's the nephew of Thoth, the Atlantean, faces on the sphinx, or the son of Marduk,
aka Amun Ra, that's the faces on the sphinx right now.
It was re-carved.
Marduk's son is the faces on there right now.
That's correct.
And it was originally the face of who?
Thoth.
He's known as Hermes, you know, he's known as Tehouti in Egypt, in Africa, Jehouti, you
know, in Australia, he's known as Thothamabi, he's known as Odin, you know, to the Greeks
and the Romans and so forth.
He's known as Mercury.
I mean, he's a Quetzalcoatl in Mesoamerica, Lord Pacal, Cuculcan, Veracotcha, many, many
names, same person.
That's Thoth?
Yeah.
The first emperor of China, Wang Di, same person.
Yeah.
Your book, The Epic of Humanity, the one that you and Matt LaCroix did, is fascinating.
I read it last night.
I love the way you guys broke down the history of the Anunnaki.
Thank you.
Thank you, man.
It's fascinating.
So maybe we should like talk about that right now.
I know we touched on it briefly on the last podcast, but it's fascinating how there's
all of these ancient tablets, like the Enuma Elish or like the Emerald tablets and all
those tablets around the world that are in these museums, that all have such similar
stories of these two gods who were here and they created demigods that were supposed to
what?
They were supposed to terraform the earth, is what they were doing, and then they got
fed up, they got overworked, and they went on strike, so they created humans.
That's it.
That's it.
Now, it's a little bit deeper than it obviously is.
It's very surface, but that's true.
So when did this, according to these tablets, when did this start?
It started around 450,000 years ago, the breakaway civilization.
450,000 years ago.
That's when they arrived on this planet.
They came here about 450,000 years ago.
At the time that they arrived, Alalu, who made it through the hammered bracelet, which
is the asteroid belt, at that time the asteroid belt was still very chaotic because the asteroid
belt is an exploded planet, an exploded planet that used to have the name of Tiamat.
Before Earth even existed, you had Mercury, Venus, which was in the position we're in
now, and then you had Tiamat.
Earth wasn't here yet.
Tiamat had two moons.
They probably had more than that, but the two we know of is the moon we have now and Mars.
Mars can be backtracked.
Even modern astral, mainstream astral physicists agree that Mars was probably a moonlet that
orbited a much larger planet based on the orbiting, the weird elliptical orbit that it
has.
Really?
Yeah.
So what happens is you have our moon and you have Mars, a habitable moon orbiting
Tiamat.
Tiamat in the Enuma Elysium, the seven types of creation, literally gets impacted by another
object that was orbiting another star.
So our solar system had gravitationally attracted a rogue solar system, so to speak, and it
was a collision that happened which made Tiamat explode.
When Tiamat exploded, now here's something interesting before I go that far.
In the text it says that Tiamat's glory rivaled the sun.
It was a water bearing planet with land and life.
Now who wrote that?
How did they know that this planet had land and life and that it rivaled the sun's glory?
That when the sun shined on it, it beamed back because it had so much water and it was so
massive.
It was six times larger than Earth.
Somebody had a view of this planet from somewhere in the solar system.
But anyway, so it exploded.
A huge chunk swung away with all that land and organic material and recoalesced as the
Earth.
The moon then was put into place to balance the wobble.
Mars grabbed its own crazy elliptical orbit around the sun.
That's why we can only rendezvous with Mars when I think it's in perigee every two years
because of its weird distances that it has with orientation to Earth.
And so Earth has weird anomalies inside of it that go back hundreds of millions of years.
And people are like, how did this hammer, this 200 million-year-old hammer, because
they can tell by the depth in these mines, how did this pottery get down here, 300 million-year-old
piece of pottery?
It's not from Earth.
It's when Earth was a part of TMI.
You're looking at a relic from a whole another civilization when we were part of another
planet.
Nobody's talking about this.
That's the next thing that I'm going to be talking about in my next book.
We're talking about Earth.
They've found artifacts?
Oh, yeah.
We've got artifacts that date back 300, 400, 500 million years.
Like which artifacts specifically?
There's vases.
There's hammers or things that look like hammers or tools that have been discovered deep in
these mine shafts.
And you can tell the years by the depth of the mine.
Are you referring to some of those vases that Ben van Kirkwick has been measuring?
I'm not sure.
I don't know about him measuring anything, but you can look these up.
They're mainstream artifacts.
So Ben van Kirkwick, he has been working with Chris Dunn, the guy who wrote the Geese
of Power Plant.
Oh, he's powerful.
Chris Dunn, I love him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was here like a couple of months ago.
Wow.
And we did crazy two-part podcast.
Wow.
It was fascinating.
His son is an astrophysicist for...
Astrophysicist.
His son is an aerospace engineer at Rolls-Royce.
Right.
Yeah.
So Ben was able to get his hands on a couple of these dynastic Egyptian vases.
And they brought them to Rolls-Royce and Ben and Chris Dunn's son and their whole team
of engineers put this thing in this laser device that measured it within like one millionths
of a centimeter, right?
And they found out...
I mean, Stephen, you can pull up the diagrams of it that they found, but they measured it
and they measured each angle and compared each surface against each other.
And they found out that thing was perfectly symmetrical within one like less than a human
hair.
Yeah, less than a micron.
And it's made at a granite, one of the hardest stones on earth.
And what they figured out was there's no way they could have made this without a computer.
That's right.
You need a computer and you need a tool that we don't have right now to make these fine
holes.
You see those indentions there where the handles are?
To do that and to even do that rim on stone, that solid and that hard, you need a very
special type of tool.
We would need something...
Find the article, Steve, the article that we pulled up last time with Ben, it was really
good.
We would need a large giant diamond bit.
We'd have to have a lot of water and thanks for cooling.
Whatever they used was way more sophisticated than what we have.
And that vase is almost as thin as the cover of your book, but to be able to do that without
breaking that is so incredibly difficult to do.
They're super experts at stonework.
I remember I just came back from Egypt and I was inside the Serapium, which I believe
is one of Enki's halls of eventi, the rejuvenation chambers.
Those things didn't have bulls in them.
They never found a bull in any of them as bull crap.
They're so clean on the inside and the inside of those boxes, those magnificent 100-ton
granite boxes is polished, smooth as glass, perfectly 90-degree angles.
I was using the phone, you can do the level.
The level was perfect everywhere you looked.
And so to do this type of work, this fine work and even that megalithic work, it takes
a very special skill and a very special understanding of stonework and a special type of advanced
tool along with some type of computer.
You need something guiding.
It's not done by hand.
Nobody's sitting there with their hand doing this.
Can't do that with copper chisels.
No chicken bones and copper chisels.
This is real advanced technology that we still can't duplicate today, which is pretty incredible.
Yeah, that's mind boggling.
Yeah, so one of the things Chris Dunn was pointing out about these vases and about those boxes
in the Serapium is he was comparing it to engine, because he's a former aerospace engineer
himself.
He was comparing, what he was saying is you don't need perfection unless there's a function.
You don't need to make something that precise unless it serves a purpose.
So the whole thing is like what was the purpose of these boxes or what was the purpose of
these vases?
Were they that perfect just because it was easy?
Is it easy for them to make stuff with that perfection out of that kind of stone or was
it very, very important that it had to be that perfect to achieve a certain function?
There's a couple of options, one, and it could be a combination of three.
One is philosophical.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Rocket Money.
Ancient civilizations on our planet were a paragon of organization.
They were wasting their resources on the unnecessary.
Every grain of wheat was accounted for.
Every block of limestone used for the pyramids was meticulously planned and every drop from
the Nile River was carefully accounted for.
If the ancient Egyptians lived among us today, how would they be sure they weren't wasting
money?
They would certainly be users of Rocket Money.
Rocket Money is a personal finance app that embodies this ancient wisdom in a modern tool.
It helps you find and cancel all those unwanted subscriptions with ease.
Just imagine if the Pharaoh had the power to cancel chariot maintenance monthly with
a single tap.
And it's not just about canceling subscriptions, it's about monitoring and controlling your
spending.
You can see all your subscriptions in one place.
No more digging through bank statements or suffering these long grueling calls with customer
service people.
This is a tool even the most organized Anunnaki god would have envied.
They'll even work on getting you refunds on subscriptions that you haven't used.
They're very skilled negotiators.
Rocket Money can potentially lower your bills by up to 20%.
Just snap a photo of your bill, send it to them, and they will handle the rest.
The bottom line is Rocket Money has already helped over 5 million users save an average
of $720 per year.
That's over $500 million in canceled subscriptions.
Don't let your money get buried and hidden like the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Take control and cancel all those unwanted subscriptions by visiting rocketmoney.com forward
slash djp.
Remember, that's rocketmoney.com forward slash djp.
Simplify your financial life today.
The same way our ancient ancestors would if they could.
Back to the show.
When I went to Cambodia, not this time, but the time before, I was fortunate enough to
talk to some monks.
And the monk was talking to me and showing me these young monks that he had.
There were kids.
I didn't even know they started as kids.
And they were cleaning and sweeping, and I was like, man, the floor is already clean.
The garbage is already, you got them cleaning it again.
I was just joking with me.
He says, no, we have to do everything to perfection.
Even if it's taken out the trash or sweeping the floor, it must be done to perfection.
It has some advanced race, advanced to the point of philosophical concepts that everything
must be perfected.
If you think about living your life, doing everything to a level of perfection, how much
more improved we would all be if that was our main focus, perfecting everything, not
becoming OCD, but actually working and focusing on whatever tasks we're doing, doing it at
our best and highest level, right?
And so that could be one thing.
The other thing is that the technology, whether it's some type of a nano tool or whatever
they had, it made it so easy for them.
So it could be a combination that because of their drive for perfection philosophically,
that they created a technology that creates this level of perfection so that they now
eliminate one process of overthinking, we have the tech that can make it just like it's
supposed to be.
And the third is the function.
All of these crystal granite and diorite crystal boxes and vases, they all have a certain level
of higher background radiation coming out of them.
So if you take a Geiger counter to these things, you'll find they're still emitting radiation.
If you go with a Geiger counter to those Serapium boxes, you'll see radiation levels way higher
than background.
And so when I was there the last time, I took people on a private visit into a sealed door.
We couldn't get in the door because the director of the site forgot that we were coming that
day.
So he called our guide and gave the approval for us to smash the lock, to be smashed the
lock.
He says, as long as you buy another one.
So I said, we'll buy another one.
We went into the room, the biggest box you've ever seen, three times bigger than any box
in their regular Serapium and it's got a radioactive sticker on it, letting you know it's radioactive.
So all these things that function is energy.
These things are transmitting a specific type of energy, radioactive energy, but also some
type of other exotic energy, I believe is combined and is one of the things to this.
They're all mostly crystal, 40 to 60% is crystal.
Now crystals are sentient living beings in my personal research.
They can replicate, they can communicate, they can send and receive information.
They're alive.
They can grow on their own.
They can duplicate.
So I believe that another thing that they did was they incorporate, they used stone that
had crystal because in their perception, they were creating living machines.
So the statues, they were alive.
These vases, they're alive.
Those boxes, they're all alive because they're loaded with so much, so many tons of crystal.
What is it?
Is it quartz crystal or?
Quartz crystal.
Quartz.
Yeah.
What do you think the purpose of those boxes were?
Oh, halls of Armenti.
So if you read the animal tablets of Thoth, my first book, Compendium of the Animal Tablets,
I break it all the way down.
He had these boxes in these underground halls that were discovered underneath the Great
Pyramid, exactly where he says they were in his tablets.
And in these halls, and it was just one of, this is just one of the locations.
They had them all over the earth.
They would actually create their own bodies and so we fashioned our own bodies.
So they would make, they either take a stem cell and turn it into a clone of themselves.
They didn't take other bodies.
They said they made their own.
And then they would put a body in a rejuvenation chamber, which is the box.
And then they would transfer their consciousness from the body that's been used up into the
newer body.
And they said that we would walk amongst men but unlike a man.
And so they would be here walking around and you wouldn't even know that they'd just been
transferring their mind from body to body.
And each one of those boxes had bodies in them and a body would sit there for a hundred
years and they would walk amongst men in the body for a hundred.
And Thoth says he did it a hundred times ten.
So if you take a hundred times ten plus the hundred years of each body sitting in the
box, you're talking a hundred thousand years potentially.
You're talking about beings that achieve the level of immortality, not because of their
gods, but because they had advanced technology that allowed them to transfer their consciousness
into another body.
Wow.
It calls the halls of a mentee and the Serapium, I believe, is one of the halls of a mentee,
but that one belongs to Enki, Thoth's father.
That is bizarre.
You know, Chris, I was trying to get it out of Chris when he was here.
He was like, I have an idea what the boxes were full.
I'm like, what?
He's like, I don't know if I want to say it.
But he was talking about growing crystals and using crystals.
That's bizarre.
Now, in your book, you mentioned that some of these Aegee were working for like 3,600
years to terraform the earth or something like that.
So going back, getting back to, we kind of got a little bit off track, but you were talking
about the origin of the Anunnaki was 4,500 years ago.
450,000.
Yeah, 450,000 years ago.
And they came from somewhere else, right?
That's the meaning Anunnaki means not from earth, right?
So they came after there was a bigger planet that was six times the size of earth, it somehow
smashed into something and created the earth.
So after that, why did they come here and how did the tablets say exactly why they came
here?
If you notice in our book, The Epic of Humanity, there's the most tablets ever referenced in
any one book in history, first of all.
This book has more references to the more tablets and excerpts from those tablets.
And the reason why we're painting a picture that all these places from around the world
and all these tablets and scriptures and papyruses and cylinder scrolls all connected to one
race of people that came from the Pleiadian star system.
And they hail from the Pleiades.
In my new TV series called Anunnaki Ancient Sequence Revealed, which is coming out very
soon in Abraigal Cinemas and then it'll be on Forbidden TV, you'll find out that there
was a galactic war in that sector of the galaxy.
And this war was so crazy, they were using something called a Brahmahonda weapon which
can destroy any man on three worlds.
We're talking about a real death star that existed in ancient times.
This weapon, once it was released, you couldn't withdraw it, you couldn't bring it back.
There was no way to cancel it.
And you can operate it from something called a tablet of destiny.
And whoever had their hands on these tablets of destiny had control of the galaxy.
And they were stolen a couple of times.
So power had been jumping back and forth.
Imagine if you were here on this earth and somebody blows up Saturn.
We want to get off earth because big chunks are coming our way.
So there were something called space refugees, my personal opinion.
This is not in any text.
This is my opinion now.
These people fled.
This is how we got the Orion, El Debron, Zeta Reticulous, the dog star, all these other
places began to get inhabited.
Earth was another targeted location as a breakaway civilization.
Some of these beings, according to the Enumilish, landed on a planet orbiting a brown dwarf
called Nibiru.
And some people say, oh, Nibiru was never in the ancient text.
Yeah, look at the oldest version of the Enumilish.
It says Nibiru and it says Anunnaki.
The oldest version, much later in a newer version, which a few thousand years later,
another copy was made by Amin Ra.
He changed Nibiru's name to Marduk because he wanted to be the destroyer.
So anyway, that's another story.
But the point is, these people decided, look, we're looking for breakaway civilizations.
Us on earth right now, human beings, if we just think that we're going to stay here on
this planet forever, we're fooling ourselves.
We need to also look for breakaway civilization.
We got to create a breakaway civilization for ourselves.
Our sun has already had middle age.
It's going to die in five billion years, which seems like a long time, but that's a blink
of an eye on geological time scales.
Earth is going to get swallowed up as it turns into a red giant because we don't have enough
a mass of sun that can create a, yeah, or someone will expand into a red giant.
We don't have enough mass to turn into a supernova.
So to expand to a red giant, then it'll shrink down and collapse into a white dwarf.
But it's going to incinerate Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars.
Gone.
Incinerated, right?
So we need to start thinking, if we want the humanity to progress, not only that, we've
only been here on this planet as a human being and homo sapiens for 200,000 years at this
level, a blink of an eye, less than a blink of an eye.
In any geological time, at any time, any geological disaster can happen here and that could collapse
our entire civilization, even if just one solar flare can turn us off and we'll be done.
So we have to find a way to get off planet, which is why this is big push for Mars.
It's about creating a breakaway civilization, learning how to do it right, making mistakes
a long way and learning from those and then branching out even further into space.
That's the plan.
And so these beings came here because they're like, look, we got to find a breakaway civilization.
They were scanning Earth and they discovered from the scattered light that like the same
way we scan for elements, they discovered there was gold and other resources on the
planet coming just from looking at the light of the planet.
Same way we do now in astrophysics.
So they said, this is a great place.
So one guy risked his life to get through the hammered bracelet and made it through.
Then he radioed back to the bureau and said, hey, I found everything we need right here.
And then they started sending people down a little bit at a time and they started building.
And when they got here and little on a crystal tablet, he showed to his sister, it says NINMA.
He showed her the building construction technique that's going to be on this planet.
He said for all time, he already had it laid out how he was going to build the cities.
How he was going to build the plumbing, everything, the way the city grid was going to be laid
out.
It was all on this crystal tablet.
Now what kind of tablet is a crystal tablet?
Sounds like an iPad or something, in my opinion.
Who sits around writing sci-fi stories 6,000 years ago?
So somebody wrote this because they were told to and I believe that what they wrote was
exactly what possibly happened.
I think we're getting as close to the truth as we can possibly get.
Now when they began doing all this building and all this work, we were already here.
We meaning our cousins, human beings, cousins, not homo sapiens sapiens, but the prior version
of us was already here.
Now this prior version of us, in my opinion, was probably more advanced spiritually.
I think that we had bigger bones, bigger skulls, bigger brains.
I think our skulls have been found all over.
I think they've been misunderstood in some cases, maybe even for aliens in some cases,
but that they had probably bigger pineal glands, probably could communicate silently.
Not technologically more advanced, but just more in tune with nature.
A lot of abilities that we should have, like understanding how to feel the magnetic field
and sense the magnetic field and navigate through that magnetic field, like animals,
we've lost that ability.
But we know in a laboratory setting, we still have it because the crystals in our brain
orient to the magnet.
So we still have, but we're not in touch with it anymore.
But what happened was...
That's funny.
I have a friend who moved to the Amazon and he said as soon as he moved to the Amazon,
he got disconnected from civilization and from technology, he said all these crazy instincts
just came back into him.
Yes, I believe that because he needed time to be away from all of that and just let
your body recoalesce into what it truly is.
This is the most powerful machine that probably exists in this sector of the universe.
And so what they said was, okay, well, these people are here, but we're not going to mess
with them.
We're just going to continue to build what we're doing and the EGG built and built and
worked and worked for about 200,000 years.
And we were already here?
We were already here in small pockets around the planet.
And just indigenous peoples, just living our lives as K people and things like that.
Nothing advanced.
And then they probably saw us just as animals.
And then the EGG got pissed off, as you know, and the antrahasis and also in the enumialish.
Two different stories, two different time periods, same story.
Now, okay, so can you explain exactly what the EGG were supposed to be?
Were they part of the Anunnaki?
Did they come here with the Anunnaki?
They came with the Anunnaki.
They were the workers.
They were, in other words, if I'm going to go out and buy a huge plot of land and say,
I'm going to build a city here, I'll probably call somebody like Chris Dunn and say, hey,
man, I need an engineer, right?
This guy, no, but an engineer is going to say, well, I need brick masons and stone masons.
And they're stone masons.
I need electricians.
So these were the people that knew how to do the grunt work.
They knew how to build the structures based on the instructions or the blueprints, right?
So these are the people.
They were builders and they were Anunnaki.
Now, Anunnaki doesn't mean they're all one particular race of people.
It means they were people who came from heaven to earth.
Anybody from space that comes to earth is an Anunnaki.
The civilization they built is the Atlantean.
But even in the tab, as it talks about some of these people coming from different planets
or stars, which means that they probably most likely were a mixed race of people.
And I have evidence to prove this and I'll tell you in a minute.
So they got pissed off.
They decided, look, we're working too hard.
You guys are treating us almost like slaves now.
We want to get a break.
We want some relief from this work.
And even that, not only that, we want women.
They were pissed off that they didn't have any women.
Really?
So this is where the sons of God fell from heaven.
They came from Mars down to earth in Genesis and they took women with them back.
But in the Sumerian tab, you get the full story where they go to Adam's calendar in
South Africa.
They encircle the camp of the God, which is Anu, the head of the Anunnaki at that time.
And they get ready to do war and Anki and Lil and Anu come outside to get their guards
out there.
Everything is tense.
And they said, look, man, we're tired of doing this labor.
And we need a break.
This Adam's calendar there in Africa, where one of the oldest gold mines was discovered
and it dates back to 200,000 years.
Isn't that interesting?
Really?
Yes.
Pretty crazy stuff.
But what's interesting is that these people, you know, these Anunnaki people, they said,
okay, well, we're going to go to war then because it's not what we can do.
You guys got to keep working.
And then Anki says, wait a minute, I have an idea.
There's an existing being on this planet existing.
We can add our essence to it.
So this is where they took one of the EGG, took some blood from an EGG.
And they, it's not really quite clear how they did it or what they did.
But in some way, it seems as if they combined that with the genetics of one of these hominids,
our cousins, and they made a clone, mix a GG mixed hominid, somebody they can control.
In other words, they can communicate with, they can teach to a certain level, they can
get them to do the workload, they can instruct them and they would listen.
And so they were doing this genetic modifying and, and they got, it sounded like they sacrificed
one of the gods.
Right.
They call it a sacrifice.
I don't know if they really would have killed it outright.
It could be a term, a term that's used to specify draining the blood out.
Right.
Okay.
I would be surprised if they really actually killed, because when you get to that level
of technology and advancement, the fact that you would kill somebody to turn to make
somebody else live, it seems a little weird.
It seems more like a huge blood transfusion or, or some type of organ donate.
It was something, I don't know if the person really died, because it never really says
if they died or not.
Their word sacrifice could be a word used when you don't know what word could exist
in that spot.
Right, right, right.
You know, it's potential.
Now that's potential.
It could be a sacrifice for real.
I'm not sure.
But my hypothesis makes me, leads me to believe probably a little different, because they're
just too advanced.
So they made this clone version of hominid slash EGG, got it to work.
And so they started making more in these Hathor birthing houses, which the Hathor birthing
house, like at the temple of Dendera, the temple of Isis, and all these other places
are there.
They're still there.
The structures are still there.
I take people to see them every year.
Now, what's interesting is these, these, these people, they couldn't produce babies
on their own.
If you take a lion and a tiger and you mate them, they're going to have, you're going
to have a ligand.
Right.
But you, the ligand can't make any babies, no matter how much time.
You try to mate it.
It won't be able to have any babies.
It can't.
If it's a male, it won't be able to get anybody pregnant.
And if it's a female, it won't be able to get pregnant.
Really?
Yeah.
Why?
It's genetics.
Genetics work to a certain point and then they fall apart.
Just like if you take a horse and a donkey, you get a mule, but mules can't reproduce.
For real?
Yeah.
Did you know this, Steve?
No, I didn't know that at all.
I thought if it, if you can make a thing, then they can make other things.
Yeah.
I thought that's how, I thought that's how like, like breeding shit.
Like that's how they made the golden retriever by like bringing different dogs together.
Yeah.
Certain combination of chromosomes don't reproduce.
So you have the horse and the donkey will make you a mule, but a mule can't make another
mule.
Wow.
It's pretty interesting stuff.
And so same thing, I think with these clones.
And so they started getting frustrated because they weren't making enough clones to get the
amount of workload done.
They wanted them to reproduce on their own.
And so that's when Isis says, you know, I have an idea.
I'm going to take the baby to term.
I'm going to give birth to the Adamu.
So she takes an egg out of one of the, um, existing hominids.
She does something with the DNA and the genetics inside the egg.
What we call today making a zygote.
She puts it in her room.
That's artificial insemination.
And then she takes it to term 10 months.
And there's a cylinder scroll with her holding up the baby saying, my hands have made it
the Adamu.
That means first man.
So now we have the first genetically modified, perfected version of homo sapien sapien.
They tried to mate him with these other clones, didn't work again.
They said, damn it.
So they took some DNA from him, made another, uh, a female and then made it them together
and it worked.
I said, we got it.
So then they started making Adams and Eves and these birthing houses, Adams and Eve.
Adam and Eve weren't the only two people on earth.
They were, when they got here, they were already probably hundreds of thousands, if not millions
of people already here.
Okay.
And then what happens is if you take two people and you think you're going to get eight
billion out of two, it doesn't work.
What happens if you start having your sister and then she gets birth and then those babies
get half to each other, you're going to have genetic mutations.
And by the third generation, they want to even be able to, they'll be dead, they'll
be stillbirths, not enough genetic diversity.
So they created Eden, E-D-I-N and Enki.
He was known as Satan, the Lord of Eden in the text.
And he would watch over this Eden.
He had guards with weapons to guard the, why would you have to guard this place with weapons?
And he had people in there and he was having mating times.
They have specific times that they can mate and couldn't mate.
And it was like breeding, breeding people and it would lurk working on perfecting it.
And when Enki came and told Adam and Eve who they were and how powerful they were and that
they were the same level as them, that's when they realized that they weren't dumb.
That was the app, the apple was knowledge.
And then Enki, Enlil comes back and gets pissed off because he discovered what happens.
And he said, then he starts calling his brother the devil.
You don't listen to him, he's evil.
But that was to distract the people, to keep him in charge of the people.
In the myth of Adapa, if you read that ancient tablet, the myth of Adapa, which is Adam,
you discover that he's been told that the way that we were genetically modified by Enki,
he added a little extra into us that even us, we human beings, home of safe and safe
and have the capability of superseding and excelling beyond, far beyond the Anunnaki
when we reach our full potential.
And it was programmed into us.
He said, also, the knowledge and wisdom is already programmed into our body, into the
DNA that at a future time we'd be able to tap into it.
That's in the myth of Adapa.
Whoa.
Yeah, powerful stuff.
And when Adam discovered all of this, he tried to commit suicide.
He was kicked out of the garden, as you know.
He tried to drown himself in the waters.
And the guards came and pulled him out of the water, wouldn't let him kill himself.
And then, as you know, they had Cain and Abel, and Cain killed Abel.
And then Cain tells God, well, God is Ann Lil, Yahweh, who's he's talking to, he's talking
to Ann Lil, known as Yahweh in the Bible.
He says, you're going to get out of here, and for what you did.
And Cain says, well, the people out there are going to kill me.
That's what it says in the Bible.
Well, what people?
There shouldn't be anybody out there.
Right.
Oh, there's people out there.
He goes, don't worry.
I'm going to put a mark on you.
And that way, they'll know your minds and they'll never touch you.
And you'll find your wife when you get out there, which is exactly what happened.
And he started the Canaanites.
So people were here already.
Adam and Eve were not the first two people on Earth.
Two people didn't produce eight billion people.
That's a farce.
Even in mainstream science, when they talk about this one hominid that they discovered
in Africa, everybody came out of this one lady.
Come on.
It's a joke.
It's an absolute joke.
Genetics doesn't work that way.
We all know that.
Chromosomes don't work that way.
We all know that.
And what's interesting is you have a civilization being built that started off by genetic mutating
an existing hominid species on Earth to create a worker race, a worker race that was enslaved
but didn't believe they were enslaved.
They did two things.
They installed a worship gene in the human genome.
And scientists have now found this worship gene.
When this gene is turned off, the person has no need to want to want to worship outside
of itself or him or herself.
When it's turned back on, the person has a feel of a need to worship something on the
outside.
When it's off, we go inside.
So this worship gene was put in.
They were masquerading as gods.
They needed to put that in there to keep us loyal to them.
So we would do the work thinking they would be giving praises to the gods.
And then the second thing is, as you look at the animal tablets where it's talked about,
everybody was spread out around the planet.
And people were told to go around the planet and rule over different areas.
I believe that the reason what makes you a Caucasian makes me a black person, what makes
an Asian person yellow, what makes an indigenous American person red is a genetic marker.
That's the marker.
And genetics, I started digging into this.
I said, why is this color difference?
In other words, I shouldn't be this skin tone because my ancestors were working in the fields
of Africa or walking in the sands of the desert.
It's ridiculous.
That's the theory, right?
That's the theory.
It's because being out in the sun all day produces more melanin and it protects you from
foolishness.
Right.
When I discovered real science in real books in colleges, you go look it up.
It says that there's a 2% variance in genes between races of people.
Now we're all the human race, but there's a 2% difference.
Now that 2% difference is so big on the genetic scale that it would take multi-millions of
years to happen naturally through natural evolution, but it happened in 200,000 years.
So what the scientists are saying is it happened artificially.
They say they don't know how it happened artificially, but this is an artificial mutation.
But when you look at the Sumerian tablets, you can discover the Tower of Babel Incident.
It really explains what happened.
And Lil, who's known as Yahweh, comes back and sees humans building a tower into the
heavens in one of these cities, duplicating what the Anunnaki had built.
He gets pissed off because he realizes, oh man, Anki got me.
These people are too smart.
And he says, I got to destroy this.
So he destroys the tower.
In the Bible, he destroys the tower in the Sumerian tablets.
And he says, my seed shall not abide in man forever.
His years shall be 120.
That's the first thing he did.
He cut our years down to 120 years.
And what's the maximum lifespan of a human being and the most pristine condition, according
to Harvard University professors, 120 years.
Then the next thing he did was he separated humans and put them in different places around
the planet, just like the tablets say.
And then he confused the languages so that we couldn't communicate and collaborate anymore,
which is why there's all these different crazy languages.
And then on top of that, he put a brand.
There's a brand.
Whoever ruled over area, brand your people.
We know that those are your people.
Brand your people.
We know those are your people.
So there's this separation, this divide and conquer tactic that's a super ancient divide
and conquer tactic that happened long, long time ago to separate and divide humanity into
these sects and these different compartments.
So for what reason though?
To keep us from collaborating, to keep us from living longer, number one, keep us, keep
us from collaborating with each other and look how it's worked.
Look how these invisible lines we have on this planet till this very day are still here.
If I go to Mexico, I'm an alien.
If they come to America, they're an alien.
Yeah.
We're still blowing each other up because of fucking religious ideologies.
It's crazy.
So I walk across this invisible line, I'm going to be killed.
I'm going to be shot.
Yeah.
Look what's going on in Israel and Palestine.
Yeah.
So it's the same.
They did it.
What they did, it's still working till this very day.
That's how powerful it was.
And we have fallen victim and prey to genetic modification and dogma that has really held
mankind back from achieving its maximum potential in a much shorter period of time.
We're still going in that direction, but we could have been so much further along if
it wasn't for the dogma and the genetic modifications.
Who was the guy who actually first deciphered these tablets?
And do you know like the process he used to figure out what these different markings
meant?
There was a few.
George Smith.
George Smith was one of them.
Yeah.
He was from like, what, the 1600s, 1700s?
1800s.
1800s.
A serialogist.
And working at Cambridge, even as a young lad, like in his teenage years, this guy grew
up around professors deciphering texts and tablets from all around the world.
And he gave one of the most profound translations of the Enuma Elish way, way, way back before
Zachariah Seachin was even born.
You know, he had, EA Spicer was an American, you know, linguist who had translated the
Sumerian tablets way before Zachariah Seachin was born.
And there's so many more people.
So these tablets have been deciphered, the key codes or how to unlock the cuneiform have
been discovered because there was trade routes between different countries in that region
and they were communicating with each other.
So they were able to decipher the language.
And so the language is not a dead language, not a hard to decipher language.
Oh, really?
No.
I have books on how to read cuneiform off of Amazon.
Oh, wow.
And now, if you go to the UCLA CDLI online digital cuneiform library, it's a lot of mouthful
right there, you can go there online for free and take virtual stones, Sumerian stones
off the virtual shelf and drop them right into a translator and read them for yourself.
Whoa.
That's fucking cool, man.
You don't even need me anymore, right?
So you can come up with your own idea or understanding of what's being said there.
What's up, guys?
I'm super psyched to introduce to you another product that I've been using for years now
that was also recommended to me by the world-renowned nutritional scientist, Dr. Dominic
D'Agostino, and it is called KetoBrainz.
KetoBrainz Neutropic Creamer is a way to perfectly dial in your morning beverage to
bring you razor-sharp focus on demand.
I start out every day with KetoBrainz in my cup of coffee to combat the midday slump
and I use it for pre-workout.
KetoBrainz Neutropic Creamer has efficacious doses of focus-inducing alpha-GPC, lion's
mane, alpha-Way promoting l-theanine, and ketone-stimulating C8 MCT powder.
And all of those high-functioning nutropics are packed into a delicious, creamy coconut
powder.
It tastes amazing.
It's a KetoNutropic powerhouse and it tickles all the right neurotransmitters to give you
the flow and jitter-free energy with absolutely zero crash.
There's no dosage tricks involved.
It's just one scoop is a full serving.
You can put it in your coffee, your tea, put it in your water, whatever you want, and you
get 30 full doses per package.
There's no pills and there's absolutely no waiting for it to work.
It kicks in like that.
You can keep your brain razor sharp, primed, and ready for action with KetoBrainz Neutropic
Creamer.
Whether you're an entrepreneur juggling multiple projects, a student studying for exams, or
you're an athlete that's trying to optimize your training, KetoBrainz will not let you
down.
All right, here I'm going to list all the ingredients contained in KetoBrainz and what
they do.
It increases ketone production via AG C8 MCT powder.
It increases acetylcholine and HGH production via 300 milligrams of alpha-GPC.
It increases GABA and alpha wave production via 250 milligrams of L-theanine and it increases
BDNF and NGF via 500 milligrams of lion's mane mushrooms.
And these are all carefully sourced and third-party tested ingredients.
This stuff quite literally increases acute brain function, protects your brain and mitochondria
long-term, and last but not least, it makes your coffee delicious.
If you're interested in KetoBrainz and you want to get a big discount, just go to the
link in the description below KetoBrainz.com and use the promo code Danny20 when you check
out.
Again, that's KetoBrainz.com.
Hit the link below and use the promo code Danny20 at checkout.
Back to the show.
Didn't they also find scrolls that were hidden that wasn't the Dead Sea Scrolls that somebody
found that was hidden in a cave and a bunch of vases or something like that.
And they had to like, there was I think pictures or footage of them like taking these different
scrolls and trying to match up where they went, like in the puzzle piece based on the
DNA of the cow hide.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what they were doing.
And that's how a lot of the biblical text was discovered.
So the biblical text is 90% copied from ancient tablets, the pyrocysts, and still in the scrolls
from all around the world, not just even in that region.
And so the Bible was written between 100 AD to 900 AD, long after the people been talked
about were long gone and dead.
Okay.
Yes.
Yes.
But what they did was they were copying from the cuneiform into their writing and then
on different types of parchment papers and so forth and then putting them in jars.
And so over the course of hundreds of years, these jars will be discovered and they'd
open up these jars and then they'd be, oh man, we found another piece.
And that's how these books of the Bible were discovered.
And over time, they were curated into finally a canonized book and they would say, well,
we'll leave these out, we'll put these in, we'll leave these out, we'll put these in.
Right.
Let's make it work for us.
The Council of Nicaea.
They remixed the text.
They remixed it.
It's a remix of a remix of a remix.
Yes.
Exactly.
That's all it is.
How do we dominate?
Well, we'll put slavery's okay in here and then we'll be, we can be slave masters.
You can enslave any race of people we want because it says it's okay in here.
The Bible says it in the Old Testament and in the New Testament, slavery's okay.
They even, Jesus' words in the New Testament says, slaves obey your slave master as you
would obey me.
Love your slave master as you would love me.
What?
They do think Jesus really says something like that.
This guy is supposed to be this love and light and all of a sudden that's in there.
Come on.
We're talking about text that has been remixed by flesh and blood human beings to do what?
To dominate, control, subjectify people, to enslave people.
And so that's why I'm not into religion.
I'm into spirituality.
I believe there's a God.
But I do not believe in any religion whatsoever because I believe religion is dogma and that
religion is all about divide and conquer.
And it robs you from being who you truly are, understanding the powers already inside of
you.
Instead of that, you rely on outside sources and you keep begging and hoping and wishing
and relinquishing your power to outside versus going inside and realizing the true power
that's already inside of you.
Yeah.
I mean, is it possible that some of these stories in the Bible are like at some level
were events or people that actually really happened and what you read in today's Bible
is just a 10,000 year old game of telephone being played.
First of all, Jesus, that name doesn't even exist.
The J didn't get discovered or created until the 1600s.
That's number one.
So the 1600s was not that long ago.
So we're just Jesus.
What they're saying is Jesus.
And what does that mean?
That means Hale Zeus and who is Zeus and Lil.
So when people say they're calling on the name of Jesus, they're saying Hale Zeus.
They're not even calling on God or somebody who they think might be the son of God.
They're calling on Zeus, which is in Lil from the Samaritan tablets.
So you have to understand how wordplay works and what they do because they understand cinematic
frequency and vibration.
When you speak, you're creating cinematics.
You may think one way, but your cinematics are what control the atmosphere and control
the elements.
You're speaking.
Your power to actually speak is what controls and shapes the world around us.
And so when you begin to speak these things unknowingly, you've been deceived.
And so even saying amen, you're saying amen because Amun Ra ordered everyone to give thanks
to him for everything that exists at the end of every prayer.
Well you're saying thanks to one of the most brutal ruling killers that ever ruled on this
planet who actually started a war just to take over kingship early so that he can rule
and you're giving thanks to Amun Ra.
Saying amen is like saying thank you Amun Ra.
You're not saying thank you to God.
It's better to say assay or something like that.
So people that they don't know because they don't research and dig deeper into the translations
of these texts.
And even if you look at the Sinai Bible, there's 14,000 differences between the Sinai Bible,
which predates the King James Version.
And in the Sinai Bible, there was no crucifixion.
To me proving that the crucifixion was added.
We know that hell was added in about the 16 or 1700s.
And we know that in 1835 or so, I believe Darby added the rapture script.
So we're talking about a really super remixed and modified changed book that people are
basing their eternity on.
They're saying look, I'm going to go into eternity because what's in this book, but
they know nothing really about it.
It makes me wonder like what kind of stuff they have buried in those Vatican archives.
Oh man.
And what kind of stuff is hidden from us.
Whew.
Listen, in those five miles of underground Vatican archives.
Right.
That's a lot.
There's been a few people that have come out talking who have had access to these Vatican
archives.
They can't say specifically everything they saw, but one guy did come on a documentary
on History Channel years ago and talked about the fact that they had bones of beings that
weren't human.
From their perspective, they weren't human bodies.
They had books and texts down there that nobody's ever been able to read or access to talk
about technology, flying devices, and all these other incredible things that were hidden
during the Inquisitions because during the Inquisitions, they were suppressing technology
heavy because they wanted to keep their boot on the necks of the people.
The Inquisitions were so brutal.
They killed over 80 million people over the course of 700 years, ordered underneath the
popes.
That really held us back because we should have been on the moon in the 1800s if it wasn't
for the Inquisitions.
That alone held us back from technological advancement.
Do you think some of these early humans, like you mentioned, that they were more enlightened
or they were more spiritually connected?
Do you think that it's possible that whether it was an advanced civilization that was like
an early version of us or that was more alien-like than it was us, whatever it was, do you think
it's possible that they had more senses than we had or had an ability to tap into other
dimensions or had more of a perception of what is beyond what we can perceive as reality?
I believe that 100% and I'll tell you why.
I went and did a walkabout in the Australian Outback with Aboriginal elders and their verbal
handed down story for thousands of years is that they were seated on this planet.
I then go and I visit with the Hopi and Lakota tribe of the Americas.
Their verbal handed down history is that they were seated on this planet by the Star Brothers.
I'm like, wait a minute.
Two different parts of the world, total opposite sides of the planet and I'm getting the same
exact story.
In the Outback, there's glyphs that are Pleiadian.
Nobody has been able to decipher these hieroglyphs to this very day.
Nobody, any university anywhere can decipher these hieroglyphs.
The Aboriginals say they're Pleiadian.
What was interesting is the Aboriginals and the same thing with the indigenous Americans,
they have these abilities still within their tribes even today and I can only imagine how
strong they were back then where they can navigate through the magnetic field.
They can feel and sense nature.
They can communicate psychopathically with each other.
In some cases, they talk about even being able to move things with their mind.
Imagine the true power that we really had back thousands and thousands of years ago.
No technology, only being able to be one with nature and tapping into all the other DNA
that's called junk now that really isn't junk.
A new study just came out discovering, they said, wait a minute, and I've been talking
about this for about 10 years.
All my workshops and classes I've been teaching, I keep telling people we don't have any junk
DNA.
Two years ago, they come out with this study that says, wait a minute, this DNA is not
junk.
It really has a lot of functions in it.
Now they're tapping in trying to figure out what all these functions are, but see we're
so technocratic now in the technocratic age, we've been disconnected from that, but it's
there.
Who did that study?
I forget the name, but we could probably look it up.
Okay.
You could probably Google it and find that study.
Try to find the junk DNA study, Steve.
Junk DNA study.
Yeah, the junk DNA is not junk anymore.
It's pretty incredible because that means that we have a lot of information stored in
our body and they also find that, see, there you go right there.
Scientists have discovered the junk DNA performs a vital function in ensuring that chromosome
bundles correctly, that chromosomes bundle correctly inside the cell's nucleus.
This function is necessarily for cell survival and appears to be conserved across many species.
So they're finding more and more and the deeper they dig, the more they're going to find about
this junk DNA.
What does that say, Steve?
Researchers have also found in some sequences that junk, wow, easy for you to say.
In some sequences in junk DNA act as genetic switches.
Yes.
What does that mean?
Which determine where and when genes get expressed.
So it sounds like triggers basically.
It triggers that you will then, that these genes will then get developed or be used.
So if you want to turn on somebody to be, like I said, schizophrenic, there's a gene
for schizophrenia.
It could be turned off or on.
The worship gene, which they don't want to put on the Google.
They could turn that off or on.
It can be, maybe that's why I'm not religious.
My switch, I turned my's off.
All these various things in the body switching on and off different genes, if you've got
a gene for-
Find the worship gene.
Let's just ask Google.
If you have a gene for multiple sclerosis, what if you turn that off?
Yes.
Yes.
Some of them are dormant.
Right.
So if they can master, this is another key to quote unquote a version of immortality.
Being able to master switching genes off and switching genes on, now all of a sudden we're
not coming, we're not coming down with these crazy illnesses and diseases because those
genes will never be activated.
Because once we learn how to master accessing our junk quote unquote junk DNA, we will be
able to control the gene expressions and once we can control them, then sky's the limit.
Forget the universe is the limit.
Wow.
To the God gene hypothesis, spirituality has a genetic component.
The VMAT2 gene is one component of this contributing to sensations associated with mystical experiences.
There you go.
There you go.
Have you heard of Roche Crucianism?
Yes.
Yeah.
That is fascinating.
Yeah.
I know.
Crazy stuff.
So there's people apparently that are able to, some people do it through Kundalini Yoga.
Some people just do it through meditation, some people do it through whatever, they have
rituals that they can practice to where they try to tap in to a whole nother realm.
Some people attribute it to creativity.
Some people claim that they think of problems before they go to sleep and then they'll go
to sleep, they'll wake up and meditate and they'll have the answer that'll come through
the muse or something like that and they're able to tap into this other layer of consciousness.
It's all very parallel to this idea or this religion called Roche Crucianism, which I
just learned about recently.
Yeah.
It's fascinating.
It is.
Roche Crucianism has basically taken their concepts and ideas from ancient religions
and ancient texts and ancient mystery teachings and the ancient mystery schools, they literally
taught this, understanding that there is a quote unquote book of life if you want to
call it that.
Now, what is this book of life that Thoth talks about at the animal tab?
That's the oldest time is referenced 38,000 years ago in the animal tablets.
The book of life is this field, this energetic field that stores all information.
So right now, both of us are sitting here, we're thinking, our brains never turn off,
they're thinking.
If we can connect an EEG to our heads, we connect to a computer, we'd see our thoughts
on the screen.
Why?
Because our thoughts are leaving our skull in the form of light waves, light waves that
we can't see because we can only see 1% of the light spectrum, but nonetheless, they
are light waves.
So we are emitting light waves, but what's on the wave of light?
Every thought that leaves, it's actually piggybacked with data, the data of your conscious thought
is being piggybacked on top of the light wave as it leaves your skull.
Just like on the cell phone, a microwave is the light wave and it's coming to my phone
right now.
My phone is sending out on the microwave data, it's piggybacking up to the tower.
Same exact concept, the way our brains work.
So we're sending and receiving information all the time by piggybacking our light waves.
Now when they go out into space time, they're on the energetic grid, they're permanently
here.
There's no way to get rid of them.
Now what if your mind quantum entangles with information in the field from somebody else's
thoughts?
If you have the capability to quantum entangle with it because you get on the same frequency
and you can actually discern the information coming in, you can get knowledge.
What we discovered in neuroscience is that the brain doesn't create consciousness.
It downloads consciousness.
And that's what a lot of these Rocha Crucians talk about, getting these ideas from our downloads.
Yes.
They talk about getting downloads.
Correct.
Downloading is real.
When I took that course at MIT in Applied Neuroscience, Dr. Tara Swart was the professor.
That's exactly what we were taught in the class.
Really?
Facts.
And I have her on podcasts that I did with her talking about this.
We did a whole workshop together, a private class together called Spirituality Backed
by Neuroscience.
I'll send you a link to it.
And this is taught about at MIT.
At MIT.
Spirituality Taught by Neuroscience?
Spirituality Backed by Neuroscience.
Backed by Neuroscience.
Exactly.
Because the science is the background explaining what's happening on the spiritual side.
What they've discovered is that the two go together, they're not to be separated.
That we're understanding now that in the quantum field, the quantum field and the mathematics
is literally explaining spirituality.
And spirituality is the result of what's happening in the quantum field.
When you separate it, you're lost.
When you put them together, you get the answers.
That's fascinating.
I remember there was a study on...
They had some monkeys that were on an island somewhere near Australia.
And they figured something out.
They figured out a way to use a certain tool.
Or maybe it was a new food they discovered.
They were going to wash their food a certain way.
Yeah, okay, you know about it.
And then simultaneously across the world, another group of monkeys figured out the same
thing at the same time.
Yes.
This is because that information went into the field.
And those monkeys are on that particular frequency because their thought patterns are the same.
Just like when there's an invention in one part of the world, somebody else has the
same invention in another part of the world almost at the same time.
Because the information's out there and somebody else grabs it and brings it in.
But always sending and receiving information.
They found out in the laboratory, George Church, Professor George Church, he did an experiment
with DNA.
He did an experiment with DNA.
He said, okay, let's see if DNA can store information, all right?
So he was able to take one of his e-books and he actually was able to convert the digital
zeros and ones into A, Cs, Ts, and Gs and download it onto DNA in a volume.
And he said, man, it worked.
I got my book onto the DNA.
Let's see if I can replicate it.
He replicated his book 80 billion times on one gram of DNA.
One drop.
80 billion times.
80 billion times.
And then what did he do?
He said, okay, let's see if we can get it back.
So then he converted the A, Cs, Ts, and Gs back into zeros and ones and uploaded it back
to the server.
So he knew now that DNA can send and receive information in a volume.
And so they said, wait a minute, this is incredible.
So now they found out that one human body can store over 13.5 billion years of data
just in your DNA.
The secrets to unmasking this entire universe is in each one of our bodies right now.
We just have to tap into it.
All the data is in there.
And so because they've done this, they've now, Microsoft has made the first DNA hard drive.
So that you have a hard drive to use components.
You have the biological component and the hardware component combined together.
So things like teleportation is going to be possible now, okay?
Because what's stopping us from doing teleportation of animate objects like a human being or animal
or this cup?
We can only teleport molecules at this point.
We teleported molecules from Earth to space and back.
By the way.
When did we do that?
That was a couple of years ago.
Really?
Oh yeah.
We can teleport all to the ISS and back now.
But it's only, you know, small particles.
Teleporting molecules.
Yeah.
But now, Steve, with this kind of database, with storage capability, we'll be able to
remember every location of every atom in your body, all the spinning rates and everything
else, all the frequencies, and we can teleport you somewhere with that kind of storage space.
On one, a hard drive the size of the cell phone can do it with that kind of technology.
Think about that.
So by getting into this type of a bio component, technological component, hard drive, using
DNA as the storage medium, skies to limit on what we can achieve.
As of November 26, 2021, teleportation is not known to be possible.
However, scientists have used quantum mechanics to teleport small particles across great distances.
What?
That's an old one too.
That's an old one.
In 2017, Chinese scientists successfully teleported a photon from the Gobi Desert to the Missius
satellite, which is 310 miles above the surface.
The scientists have used a process called quantum entanglement, which is complicated
physics process that allows for the instantaneous teleportation of small particles.
Quantum teleportation is a scheme for information transfer, not the transfer of matter.
It uses entangled photons to teleport quantum information from one ensemble of atoms to
another.
If you keep looking, you'll find...
That's still pretty wild.
That's wild, but you'll find the molecule one, it's a much newer article, but yeah.
They can do a molecule now, which is pretty cool.
They can do molecules.
These are old articles, 2017, 2021.
They're really getting advanced with this, and teleportation is going to be a real thing.
Now, when you get teleported, you've got to remember, you die.
Anything that teleported doesn't exist.
A teleportation is a copy.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's why in the Star Trek Enterprise series, they were afraid to get into teleport, because
they knew that.
That means that version of them ceases to exist.
You're destroyed in one place and you're reassembled in another place, but the reassembly part
process is a copy.
When you come out the other side, you're copied.
Do you have the memory of before?
Yeah, because the database will store everything in a way, an exact format, location it needs
to be.
There was a short film like that, that the technology...
I mean, this is a short film, but the technology was that you can transport anywhere to any
star and they would do that to go on vacation.
At the end of the short film, it showed that after the guy had left, he was still there
on the platform.
He was like, what's going on?
Then they drop him into a vat and chew him up and make another clone out of him.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
You're a facsimile when you teleport.
But then also through the same technology, we're going to be able to really develop
food replicators.
They've already got some very simple ones that are using 3D building to model, taking
actual atoms and using 3D modeling.
3D printing is to model food, but we're talking about within the next 10 years, we'll be able
to create food processors that can replicate meals.
Yeah, I heard that about steaks, they're able to replicate meat.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is going to get really interesting because...
I mean, if they're able to do that and it's exactly the same thing, like if they're able
to analyze it and compare it and say, this genetic created 3D printed steak is the same
thing as the one that came out of this living cow.
Why wouldn't you do that?
Well, you can bring food to the furthest reaches of the world where people are starving
and hungry.
You could put an applicator inside their hut and they can have food.
It changes the playing field though.
It takes a civilization that's third or fourth level and brings them up to one level.
You're taking third world and fourth world, bringing them to first world and some people
don't want that.
So if we don't take back control of our planet, all these crazy, incredible technologies
will still be oppressed and only the elite few of a few will be able to get access to
them and the people who really, truly need them will still suffer.
Imagine, we can just go to the grocery store here in America and buy food, but okay, let's
say I'm rich enough to own a replicator, so I can say, you know, just replicate me a dinner
tonight.
Meanwhile, halfway around the world, somebody's starving and they can use that replicator,
but they'll never get it because of economics and laws and governments and corruption.
So we have to take control of this planet.
In some way, we have to break down this entire global cabal and we need to be able to get
the things for the people who actually need them.
Do you, I mean, it's wild to think that we exist here with so much technology and we've
advanced so far where, I mean, just three years ago, AI came out, now people are using
that shit to make YouTube videos.
They don't even have to do anything themselves.
They literally program AI to do everything from their thumbnails to their, to recreate
the video, recreate the music, the voiceover, there was a whole Andy Warhol documentary
that was just made where they used AI to recreate Andy Warhol's voice for the voiceovers.
And now there's ad agencies who literally use AI to tell them where to put the logos
on commercials and how to cut the commercials to work right.
And simultaneously in the Amazon and in different islands around the world, you have these
uncontacted tribes.
Right.
I know.
It's the craziest thing.
That murder a human as soon as they see him.
Oh yeah, I remember that.
That happened.
Yeah, it's wild.
It's...
So the fact, like, think about that.
Was it like that back 20,000 years ago?
Before the Great Flood, was it?
We have like super advanced people that created power plant pyramids that used electron, giant
electron harvesters to use microwave energy to power the world and flies flying saucers.
At the same time, have cavemen.
You had people walking around naked at the same time.
Right.
Yeah, literally.
You literally did.
If you look at, if you go to the Cairo Museum or the Egyptian Museum of Civilization and
you see some of the oldest relics in there, some of the oldest artifacts, you'll see some
statuettes of what will be called considered the poor man and they're naked.
They have no clothes on because in those times, if you were poor, you had to walk around naked
to make sure you weren't stealing from anybody who had money.
So now they had electricity back then.
They had advanced technology.
They had advanced tooling, which we just saw, right, from the engineer Mr. Dunn.
But at the same time, people are walking around literally butt naked.
So we always see this thing where we have people in position of high power and domination
control over the masses and they hold down and put a boot on the neck of a certain number
of people and that's got to come to an end.
Could you imagine if they did that again?
Oh man.
If we got to like, if this shit got so far out of hand where just like the rulers of
the world started making everybody, if you make less than a million dollars a year, you
got to start walking around butt ass naked, bitches.
Oh my God.
I mean, it's hard to not see like just everything is so, it seems like humanity is spiraling
out of control if you watch the news or if you pay attention to anything in the media.
The only solace that I get is if I look at, you know, these ancient civilizations and
see where we came from there, how we have kind of in a weird kind of way overcome a lot of
the oppression that was there from these other people, these beings, these Anunnaki beings
because there was a war, another pyramid war that happened where these people said the
evil wind is coming and it was making people's hair and nails fall out, bleeding from the
eyes and nose.
Sounds like radiation poisoning.
We know in Mohenjo and Darwa in the Indus Valley, the whole town turned to glass.
They were made from sandstone bricks turned to glass.
That means 3,000 degrees plus temperatures and the evidence that can be seen all throughout
that region where there was some type of a war, most likely in my opinion, nuclear and
wiped out a lot of people.
These beings, for whatever reason, they got the hell out of here.
They said, we're going to get into our ships and for a boat, we're going and then left
us here as an abandoned seed colony to kind of defend for ourselves.
But you know, so we've gotten to this point now.
The dogma that they installed eons ago is still running the country because it's in
the minds of these quote unquote leaders and it keeps getting passed down.
But at some point, we as humanity, we meaning the 8 billion people, we have to stand up
to this 1% and say, we're not going to play your game anymore.
We know that we can do this because the whole pandemic proved to us that we can shut the
whole world down and guess what, we're all going to still live, we're alive.
We came back.
Businesses came back.
Everything came back.
And we collectively did that and said, no, we're going to turn off the world now.
We're going to turn the world off and we're not going to turn it back on until we renegotiate
what we feel needs to happen on this planet.
But you know, the thing is that divide and conquer the confusion of languages.
I'm this race.
You're that race.
You're over here.
I'm over this invisible line.
I got this invisible line.
And so we have this divide and conquer and this dogma in our brains.
And also we have the fear factor.
So combine all that together.
You have the perfect storm keeping us separated when we need to come together now more than
ever to take back control of this planet.
Yeah.
And yeah, there's just so much there.
If we don't take back control of this planet, they're going to start selling us time.
I guarantee it.
Selling us time?
Well, now they've learned how to master the telomeres.
So now they know how to keep you living longer.
So now all of a sudden, oh, you want to live to be a hundred?
Oh, well, that's going to cost you this and that.
Or you're going to have to do this.
You're going to have to do that.
Oh, you want to live to be 80?
Oh, well, you know, we'll see what happens in your retirement plan.
We'll put time in your retirement plan.
People are already paying like millions of dollars to have their fucking brains put in
cryo chambers after they die.
So in the event that technology comes to the point where you can put your brain in a cyborg
in the future, they can bring you back to life, put you in a new body.
That's insane.
And they walk around and had a guy in here.
He was a scientist.
He had a dog tag that he got from the place that he paid a half a million dollars to.
When he dies, the medics, when they see that dog tag, they know, call this company, chop
this guy's head off and put it in a ice bucket.
Get him in there.
Yeah.
Interesting.
But that comes from the animal tablets.
They just haven't mastered it.
Even if you look at the Egyptians, they were lied to.
The mummification that you see in Egypt and these fancy sarcophagus and these tombs.
When you go in a tomb, which I take people to the Valley of the Kings all the time, you
see these elaborate tombs, all this elaborate artwork before they were robbed, all the jewelry,
all the riches, all the money, all the gold, the cats, the wives, the maids are all in
there with you.
Everybody got it.
When you go, everybody got to go.
Well, why is that?
If I'm going to go to some afterlife, I know that this money and gold ain't coming to the
afterlife.
See, they were told that the mummification process was about saving the DNA to be brought
back to life at a later time, just like the guy who came in here.
Over time, the secret of that got lost and it became this mummification, we're going
on the solar boat and blah, blah, blah.
The real implication of this was, we're going to come back because these people in the beginning,
the beginning pharaohs, they were the sons of these Anunnaki gods.
They were half human, half Anunnaki.
We promise you, we're going to bring you back.
You're going to be immortal.
We'll bring you back to life.
So keep everything here.
Hide it good.
That's why the tombs were hidden.
They come back to life.
They, oh, I got my gold.
It's in tomb number 15552.
Let me get my keys so I can get my gold and get all my riches back out because I'm a rule
again.
Never happened.
But that was the premise behind it.
It was about preserving DNA to be cloned and transfer yourself into a brand new body
here in this realm, nowhere else.
What was the story you mentioned briefly last time?
There was a guy who did the research that found out that human DNA is a little bit different
than monkey DNA, but there's like two extra or two missing chromosomes or something like
that.
Yeah.
And there were telomere caps put on that like shortened our lifespan.
Right.
What does that story go back to?
It goes back to the Sumerian tablets.
Okay.
And it goes back to geneticists say it happened about 200,000 years ago.
The Sumerian tablets talk about an incident that happened when and Lil, aka Yahweh, says
I'm going to cut humans lifespan.
And so they took out chromosome number two and they fused it together and they put a
telomere cap on each side and that telomere cap has a buffer material, genetic buffer
material.
And when it runs out, your body begins the death process.
Now what they did at Harvard is they took some mice and they discovered how to stop the
telomeres from degrading or using up all the buffer material so fast.
So they extended the mice three lifetimes, I believe, three extra lifetimes or two extra
lifetimes.
So they had three full lives.
In other words, they extended them so long that they normally would have lived that they
lived that long for real.
It would have been the equivalent of three lives.
So now they know how to do this in mice, which means they can do it in human beings.
And if they can do it in human beings.
Have they tried yet?
I'm pretty sure they have.
You know, we have a lot of mad scientists out here and these, especially in Darfur in
the military.
Yeah.
I was one of those scientists.
I've tried it myself.
Right.
But the thing is, how do we control how they give us access to it?
Right.
You know?
And so all of a sudden, that's why I keep saying it's so vital to take control of this
planet because they'll start selling us time and rich people will live longer and people
who are poor will die sooner.
And so you'll have a planet full of extremely wealthy people living to 100, 200, 300 years
or maybe even more and the poor people, well, you know, well, you won't make it to 80.
Yeah.
So last night, I was watching your thing on the Black Knight satellite and that is bizarre,
man.
And there's lots of videos that talk about that and legitimate people that were like
working on the space station who photographed this thing.
Yeah.
And Stephen, you can probably find some real photos of this thing.
It's called the Black Knight satellite K and IGHT.
And so can you explain what this is and what the mainstream theory of what this thing is?
So the Black Knight satellite is this object that is actually orbiting the Earth right
now.
What's interesting is the mainstream knew it was there for a very, very long time.
And those are some really good pictures.
The one on the top left is accurate.
That's a great photo.
The one right next to it to the right, that's another one zoomed out.
That's taken from the ISS.
That one's a real one too.
So you can see that this object is massive.
Yeah.
They're trying to say it was a space blanket.
So we debunked that inside the documentary that it was a space blanket.
Inside of the ISS, there's this area where you have these trunnion pins and you have
this kind of a heat protection blanket that goes on two trunnion pins.
It's about, for me to you, and about maybe this wide, they're trying to say that that
thing floating through space is that.
So we debunk it because we actually do a comparison in the documentary and show that, no, it's
not this space blanket from the ISS or from the space shuttle, I'm sorry, from the shuttle.
It's something totally different from the ISS from the space shuttle.
It's something totally different.
And so this is the object that they estimated one time on NASA at 15 tons.
Now when it first was discovered in more modern and more recent times in the 80s, NASA and
Soviet Union went on high alert, Russia went on high alert.
They were like, wait a minute, they thought we were both doing something to each other
from space.
And then they realized, right, but they said, wait a minute, we can't launch 15 tons.
And they were like, well, we can't launch 15 tons, but what is this thing?
So they flew by with an STS mission, a space shuttle mission and took high definition photos
which are still on nasa.gov today.
Oh, you can find them online.
They're right on nasa.gov and NASA labeled them, I'll send you the links to them, direct
links, NASA labeled it space junk.
So nobody wants to touch this thing.
They don't want to say what it is, but it's been there for a long time.
How do we know this?
First of all, Nikola Tesla claims they have received a signal from this object.
This is a long time ago.
Now we're talking about the late 1800s.
Then the signal is again- Did he call it the Black Knight satellite?
He didn't call it the Black.
Now that's a much newer name.
Okay.
It got that name much newer.
How did he know that he was receiving signals from this thing?
First, he thought it was from Mars.
Then he thought it might have been something much closer to Earth.
Back then, when he was getting these radio signals from space, because this thing is
emitting a signal, a frequency, there was nothing else here.
There was nothing, no satellites.
We had no technology except for what he was making.
So what was this frequency?
So he then assumed it might have been coming from something much closer.
Then in 1953, two ham radio operators picked up this same frequency and they began to market
down, take note of what the frequency was and the tones.
And they didn't know what it was either, but it was coming from outside.
Then in 1960, it made Time Magazine.
What was interesting is in 1960, Russia and America began the space race just before that.
And Russia was building, Sputnik already had one going up.
So all eyes were in space around the low Earth orbit, trying to figure out how do we get
something to orbit this planet.
And during this process, they discovered this thing was there.
That's why it made Time Magazine.
Another astrophysicist said, wait a minute, Duncan Lunin said, this thing is real and
it has a frequency coming out of it.
And he deciphered the frequency and said it was leading to the Epsilon.
It was saying Epsilon boltus constellation or boltus constellation Epsilon, which is
pretty interesting.
I said it's pretty interesting.
So fast forward again, an NSA document gets released and declassified talking about the
fact that how to communicate with ET and it talks about these frequencies coming from
space and it says, boltus constellation, boltus Epsilon.
Same location.
So I said, what the hell is this Epsilon thing?
What is this boltus?
So I said, looking up, there's a constellation called the boltus constellation.
And in this constellation, there's the largest void that we know of, a void meaning not even
spaced dust is in this area.
It goes on for light years.
So I'm looking at that now.
I go, how in the world can there be nothing in this space?
There's like dark matter or just nothing, not even dark matter.
Michio Kaku hypothesized that it might be a cloak, an advanced cloak civilization.
I said, what?
So now I started digging deeper.
I go, wait a minute, I look into ancient text and I'm like, this has got to be something
here.
I said, who owns the boltus?
And it says in little in Wikipedia of all places, which they can't stand to put anything
out that gives you any inkling of real, you know, real knowledge.
Everything is pseudoscience.
Right.
But they had sources that led back to real tablets that said this, so they had to list
it, the sources are all, you know, there.
So it went back to real tablets.
So the boltus constellation and Epsilon is attributed to the ownership of Enlil.
When you look at these tablets, it didn't surprise me because these people, these
Anunnaki people, they own planets, they own moons and everything.
He owns the constellation.
And so, or maybe he rules over it in some weird way.
So I said, this is crazy.
So when you start analyzing, OK, let me go back.
Ancient Texas saying war, they left, they fled.
What they have possibly dropped in a probe in orbit to watch us and monitor us and
transmit back to them what's going on here since they left.
This thing was in a polar orbit.
We couldn't do a polar orbit at the time this was discovered in a polar orbit in 1960.
We couldn't do a polar orbit.
All the satellites orbited the equator.
That's right.
And a polar orbit, what does it give you?
It gives you the ability to see everything going on in the planet.
Because as you orbit around the planet polar, you know, pole to pole and the planet
rotates on its axis, you can take swaths of data from the planet, topographical data,
you know, resource data, human population data, everything.
And then you can make, you can put it into a computer and you can see exactly what's
going on. And they'll have something called an all seeing eye.
Well, he knew everything going on on the planet at one time.
And I'm saying that only way you can do it was with a polar orbiting satellite.
That's the only way you can actually do that.
It all started to make sense to me.
So it became a big hypothesis.
So I started researching it deeper and then I got some experts together.
And that's why I made the black man satellite documentary.
I believe that this thing is transmitting information back to Boatess via quantum
entanglement communication because Boatess is light years away.
So that means it would take a long time at the speed of light.
However, if you quantum entangle with the communications device back at Boatess,
you can transmit the information instantaneously.
And the reason why I believe they won't touch this thing is because what if it
has a self destruct mechanism or some type of a defense mechanism that we don't
know of? We don't want to activate it.
We don't want to touch it.
What if it says, Hey, they're messing with me and all of a sudden here comes
the Calvary. Oh God.
They just leave it alone.
Don't touch it.
It ain't doing nothing to us.
We ain't doing nothing to it.
But interestingly, the location of Boatess from that frequency is the location
it was in the sky due to the procession of the equinoxes, 13,000 to 14,000
years ago or so.
So this thing could potentially be 13 to 14,000 years old, which is right
around the time of the younger driest incident on earth.
Now, we don't know though.
I mean, if we were, we could study it with like a drone.
Couldn't we send like some sort of other satellite that was remote controlled
up there to get kind of close to it and follow it?
And I'm pretty sure you can.
I mean, you know, it depends on what they allow, how close they allow you to get.
They meaning, you know, they have their own self-defense.
They have that stargate system.
They can defend anything they want in space.
And I'd probably, if you don't go on up your particular approved flight plan,
they might just blow you out of the sky, you know, whatever you send up there.
Right.
They'll give you, you can get an approved flight path, but I doubt that you can
rendezvous with this thing.
People would have done it by now.
That is freaky, man.
Yeah.
But it's there.
It's up there.
It's orbiting the planet and it's changed course a couple of times.
Now, ice particles and blankets don't change course.
So this thing has got, maybe it's got AI in it.
It's intelligently controlled in some way, but we can, you know, these people
are a million years ahead of us.
They're a million years ahead of us technologically.
And so we've got so much learning to do.
And, you know, the best thing to do is just don't even touch it.
What do you think about where humanity is heading as far as like how we're advancing
in technology and, and with AI and with just everything in general?
Is there, is there anything that is prophesized or talked about in any of these
ancient texts on like what happens next?
Well, if you look at some of the ancient texts like the Epic of Gilgamesh,
which is the full story of Noah, they fashioned an artificial being for Gilgamesh
to go on his hero's journey.
That was a May being.
It was a mechanical being of some fashioned being.
They made him a cyborg or a really R2D2 type thing.
Yeah, yeah.
Now, wasn't it said, I thought maybe I read it wrong, but in your, in your book,
the guy who does the traveling around the world after the floods was the son or
the descendant of the ruler of one of the first cities.
Oh, that's Gilgamesh.
Gilgamesh, right, right, right.
Gilgamesh, who became a king as well.
I think he became the king of Baruch.
But yeah, he, he was a real being.
He was half human, half and ornaki, but because he was half human,
he didn't have immortality.
They wouldn't let him live forever.
He was huge.
He was strong.
He was a giant.
He had massive amounts of knowledge, but they kind of gave him the run around.
They told me, you want to learn about immortality, go see Ziazudra.
That's Noah in the Bible.
So he goes to seek out Ziazudra, but they fashioned him this, this being so that he
wouldn't be lonely on his journey.
He eventually, he's never granted immortality.
They told him, because you got the blood of a human, we're never going to give you
immortality.
Basically, we're never going to tell you the trick of how to transfer your mind
as new bodies.
We're not going to let you clone yourself or anything like that.
Right.
But they do that.
So they had the capability.
But also when it came down to this situation with the war that was going to
break out, there was a suggestion I forgot by one of the women, one of the
Anunnaki women that, you know, about making fashioning workers.
And they were like, we tried that.
There's something to the fact we tried this on the home world and then the
tablets broken there.
So I almost think that it's alluding to the fact that they had tried this type
of, you know, fabricated being situation.
And maybe it didn't work out properly because they also talk about in the
tablets, using these WMDs, weapons of mass destruction that were now forbidden
to be used on the home planet, but somebody snuck them and brought them here
and hit them in the mountainside, which eventually will use thousands of years
later in a war on this planet.
And that's what it says in the Samaritan tablets.
And so it's possible that they had considered these AI type robotic beings,
but realized that when those AIs wake up, they realize they don't need us anymore.
So it probably was some type of a big battle that occurred.
They're probably fortunate they even won or were able to survive it.
And the same thing can happen to us.
I really think that we have to have some type of parameter on this AI because I
think there's so many great things that can come out of it.
Even robotics, you know, helping paralyze people, people with disabilities,
freeing the burden of man.
So we don't have to do the hard labor anymore.
But if you take away the labor jobs, then you got to take away our bills.
And they're not doing that.
We're going to be, they're replacing everything, even truck drive.
Everything's going to be replaced.
Even restaurant workers will be replaced.
But then what about their bills?
So we're going to have a whole, you know, slew of unemployed people that
don't have any other skill set, and they're going to eventually be tent
cities all over the world.
So we have to, if we're going to replace their jobs, then we have to take
away their bills.
We can't free their burden and give them the bills at the same time.
So something has to give, you know.
So we're on a precipice.
It can go either way.
It really can.
Yeah.
It makes me wonder, another book that I read by Annie Jacobson was her, she had
a whole book about like the history of DARPA and how, how advanced their
technology was compared to what we knew in modern society.
Like they invented GPS, they invented the DARPA net, which was the internet
like way before we knew they were working on brain chips, like Elon's
neural link back in the nineties to create super soldiers.
And, you know, it just, I think about it all the time.
Like I wonder how much farther advanced the US government is with AI and all
this stuff that we have no clue.
They have the DARPA, they have the DARPA has the avatar project and the avatar
project, they have actual field robots and where a soldier is in a bunk or
somewhere, maybe even a thousand miles away, has a symbiotic consciousness
link to the robot to control it.
The robot has AI plus its own link so it can make decisions and you can control
it still if the robot blows up, the soldier doesn't die.
The symbiotic link is, is disconnected.
They have the craziest tech.
Yeah.
That you can only, they have something in this, in the space, in space on a
satellite called the rods from God.
The rods from God.
The rods from God.
This is a satellite that I know of that exists.
This satellite has 20 foot tungsten steel rods on it.
These tungsten steel rods have no warhead, but when it's positioned over any
country or any city, it can be released within a millimeter of the point of
impact and they'll decimate that entire region using kinetic energy.
Steven, you gotta find this.
With no fallout.
Really?
Yeah.
The rods from God.
It sounds terrifying, but it sounds way better than thermonuclear bombs.
Oh, it's way better.
You can blow up.
I mean, I'm saying way better.
Look how we're talking about, you know, it's better than nuclear fallout.
Right.
Yeah.
The rods from God's satellite weapon.
Rods from God is a hypersonic space weapon concept that involves dropping a tungsten
rod from orbit.
The rods are 20 feet long and one foot in diameter and weigh 24,000 pounds.
When dropped from orbit, they can reach speeds of up to 10 times the speed of sound.
See, you're talking to a bit of knowledge, man.
Scroll down.
According to 2023 study, the rods from God might not be as effective as previous studies.
Yeah, we don't worry out there.
Other countries, don't worry countries out there.
We're not going to drop these on you.
But yeah, they got them.
How do you think they get these countries to fall in line with what they want them to do?
Imagine you're a country and you want to do this, you want to do that, you want to be able
to do whatever you want and you know that this thing is hovering above you.
And we say, listen, if you do it, we're going to drop one.
OK, we're not going to do it.
We'll stand down.
We'll stay third world.
We won't rise up to second or first world.
We'll stay back.
We'll stand down.
They give them a little bit of money, give the leader a little bit of money.
Maybe it's all a puppet dictator.
You know that things over your head.
The scary thing to think about is some of like the crazier dictators around
the world, like in North Korea, who hide nukes in satellites that pass over
the United States multiple times a day.
I know.
And what it would take for some unhinged dictator to send a nuke, which could
that could be a domino effect in nuclear bombs hitting all over the world
and just fucking destroying humanity, sending us into a nuclear holocaust.
Well, this is why have you heard of that?
I don't know if I think it's just a conspiracy theory, but it's a fun one.
It's a project looking glass about how there was in area S4 in Nevada, there
was some sort of device where they could go into in time travel.
And they found out that there was then we're talking into like the multiverse
now where there was back a long time ago, one version of reality went in a way
where there was a nuclear holocaust or some sort of holocaust, some sort of
thing that basically ended humanity and the survivors went underground because
there was so much fallout over the earth, they could not survive.
So they had to go underground and they evolved underground for maybe millions
of years, hundreds of thousands of years.
And because they were not in the sunlight, they were living in darkness.
They evolved into being what we see now as those gray aliens with the big heads
and the big eyeballs.
And that's how they because they evolved underground.
That's what they eventually looked like.
Wow, incredible.
Yeah, that's what the project looking glass.
But if you look at some of the incidents that happened here in not only America,
but around the world at a lot of our nuclear flights, these flights are nuclear
bases where silos are located, they call them flights.
I remember when these former nuclear physicists, the people who used to arm
the nukes, the soldiers that used to guard the nukes came forward and a live
press club in the middle of the afternoon on CNN one afternoon about two decades
ago and talked about how these UFOs would show up at these flights and deactivate
the nukes.
Yep.
Now, the hardest job to get in the world is a guy who has the codes to the nukes.
So when this guy gets up and says, look, when I was working there, verified
this guy worked there and these things came, they deactivate, they deactivated
nukes and I had to reactivate them.
So that's telling me they sent us a message.
They're not going to let us destroy this planet.
And there's also, there was a fun, there was actually there's a debate about it.
You can find on YouTube, there was a general or a high ranking military guy who
was at the Air Force Base in California, Vandenberg.
And there was a rocket that was sent up with a mock warhead on it.
And he says that he saw some sort of object fly up, hover around it, shoot
laser beams into it and complete and send the rocket just fell into the ocean.
That's right.
That's, that's right.
I know exactly who you're talking about.
And his story has been out for a while.
It just keeps, you know, cause people want to interview him more, but I heard him
talk about this probably about eight to 10 years ago.
Yeah.
What is your opinion on, on everything that's coming out right now with these
modern day UFOs and this guy, Dave Grush, coming out and saying all this stuff?
I think Dave Grush is telling the truth personally, which is why they don't want
them to keep talking, you know?
He says that we have bodies, not of this world.
We have, you know, vehicles, not of this world.
I believe that.
What the Pentagon and the military are doing, they want to control the narrative
because they're getting ready to continue to produce these, these, um, these
technologies that mimic or look like some real UFOs.
In other words, really unreal identified flying objects, but they're ours.
And there's a lot of them that are ours.
There's some that are not ours, but they want to control the narrative because
you remember the Gulf of Tonkin incident where we faked the whole lie about what
happened in Elmstead that let us get into the Vietnamese war.
Yep.
Imagine we have one of these flying triangles like a TR3B or some UFO that we created.
We fly over one of our own warships and shoot it so that we can make everybody
afraid and say, now we need trillions of dollars going into space weapons.
Now there's a whole space weapon industry being funded by tax dollars that doesn't
even need to exist.
But these fat cats with these $10,000 suits are going to get richer and richer and
richer, making weapons for things and threats that don't even exist.
So it's a real crazy situation.
I think that they're controlling the narrative to make money because there's
no more wars to fight.
They really are hardly any more wars to fight.
We've already dominated.
We took over Argentina.
We took over the Middle East.
We know nobody really cares about Africa.
You know, everywhere you can go and get some kind of resource, they've done it.
In Africa, they've already gone and set up corporations in all the places that
have all the resources.
That's been finished a long time ago.
There's nowhere else to go to start any big wars to generate trillions of dollars
in war money.
So the next big race for money is space race.
And that's where you have the space force.
And all of a sudden, don't be surprised if you see one of these UFOs or UAPs shoot
at one of our own ships, now justifying the need for more laws, more restrictions
on us, plus more money going into into the space weapon industry, which is going
to be a trillion dollar industry.
And we're not even going to question it.
We're going to happily give them the money.
They don't have to hide the money.
No more black budget mix ups.
We don't know where the 18 trillion went, you know, like Donald Rumsfeld.
No, we know where it went and went to the space force because we have to have
weapons to protect the planet.
Meanwhile, they're using those weapons to point them right back at this
own planet with us still on it.
So that's the trick behind this whole thing.
It's a it's a fake space race for a space war that's probably not going to happen.
Do you you think there's some sort of like objective with like some sort of deception
going on with people like Dave Grush coming online and are coming on going on
them on every single talk show going on Joe Rogan talking about this stuff.
And I just the guy is so entwined in intelligence.
It's just like I'm it's hard for me not to be skeptical of the guy.
It's possible that he could be seeding more information, you know, I mean, this
stuff goes so deep and it's so compartmentalized and they play so many
psyops on us.
Right.
It's hard to tell what's real and what's fake, which is exactly what they want.
They want us off balance.
Because if we're off balance, we're always guessing, you know, like right now we're
guessing, which is exactly what they want.
Because when you're off balance in the box, I mean, what happens?
You get knocked the hell out.
Yeah.
I mean, what do you think happens to to religion?
You think, I mean, if they come out and say, yeah, there's other race of beings
are here, they're walking around, they're communicating with us.
We made a deal with them like Tucker Carlson says.
Like how do people react?
What does that do to society?
Do we stay divided?
Do we keep, how does that, like if that is real, how do you justify spending
trillions of dollars to blow up people for extreme religious ideologies?
If they're, you know, how relevant is that?
You'll see two things happen.
You'll see a big split in the divide.
You'll see a lot of people, half the people go towards no religion and drop
religion, which is a multi-trillion dollar industry.
Yeah.
And then you'll see another group of people, another 50% of the people will
become extremists and believe and swear that these are the demons that are being
prophesied about coming to get us.
And these aliens are, we're now taking, we're working with Satan and Satan's
going to get us and this whole demon thing.
And there's Satan's and his demons and the fallen army of heaven is coming down
to, to be guile us.
So you'll see this divide happen between non-believers and zealots.
And that's kind of what's probably going to happen.
Yeah.
I mean, even Tucker Carlson was just saying on some, on some podcast that he
thinks that he taught, he says he got some sort of like top secret information
that he hasn't even shared with his wife, according to him, that says that this
whole phenomenon is so spiritual phenomenon.
Well, you know, I believe that this is not just a physical phenomenon.
So you have 3D that we're in, right?
Third density.
I believe that we're seeing UFOs and aliens that exist and have engaged in
that hand kind, according to these tablets in this third dimension.
They live here.
They've been here in this universe with us, but then also they're here.
You think they're living on earth?
Some of them, I think are still here.
Yeah.
Maybe even behind the scenes pulling, pulling the strings, their puppeteer,
their puppet masters and we're the puppets.
But then also you have these other beings that are in, are in this third
dimension, but they're also very nice and they really want to see humanity
progress.
I think the ones that are here are hiding from them.
But then let's go deeper.
Okay.
We're living in a multi-dimensional universe.
We know that this universe has at least 11 dimensions.
We talked about this the last time on your podcast, right?
I believe that there could be, maybe even these orbs could be multi-dimensional.
What if these orbs are coming from a higher dimension and transiting,
transdimensional coming into the third to observe and to collect data and send
it back to whatever dimension they're from.
There could be beings from higher dimensions that know how to phase shift.
There are subatomic frequency that match the frequency of our universe
and walk right in.
Right.
There could be all these apparitions and things and all this
paranormal activity could be higher dimensional beings coming to observe
or for whatever reason, whatever their agenda is, we don't know.
So you could have multi-dimensional, trans-dimensional, you have physical
third dimensional beings and I believe all three are happening at once.
Yeah.
And the fact that coming out of the oceans is interesting too.
Because if you wanted to, if there was an all out nuclear war, the people
that would survive the longest would be the guys that are living on those
nuclear powered submarines underwater because they would survive the fallout.
They would live at least until they run out of food or water to drink.
Right.
And these new nuclear subs, they actually can take water out from the ocean
and desalinate it.
Oh, really?
And they even have a sub that can take in the ocean water and convert that
into hydrogen and use hydrogen for fuel.
They even have hydrogen powered ships now.
So they can just stay on the ocean indefinitely.
They can just suck in the sea water and through electrolysis, you extract the
hydrogen atoms, push it into a chamber for combustion and you got unlimited fuel.
Which is where everything is going.
E.B.s are going to die.
E.B.s will be only for commercial vehicles.
Everything is going to go to hydrogen, everything.
Hydrogen, not nuclear powered?
No.
I'm talking about hydrogen for as far as civilians.
Everything is going hydrogen for transportation, for personal
transportation will be hydrogen.
They'll be, the world is going to get back away severely.
I mean, I mean hard turned from E.B.s.
Have you seen that movie?
It was called The Adjustment Bureau.
The Adjustment Bureau, yes.
With Matt Damon, I think it was.
That, that is frequently, it's when you think about like the way that
movie was done and how little changes, like little things that you can do or
like how, like how just making, altering someone's decision during the day on like
if they miss the bus or not, can alter like history so much.
And you think, and you compare that with like the history of this country and how
close we've come to nuclear war in the past.
I had a guy in here yesterday who was like talking about the history of JFK and
how if it wasn't for JFK and MLK, we wouldn't be here today.
And how the story about how JFK actually became president, which is fascinating,
how MLK basically is the reason that he got elected.
Because, and, and like all, like all the generals that were surrounding JFK were
trying to put, like were trying to invoke a secret nuclear war.
They wanted to nuke China and Russia and Laos and Cuba and all these places all
at once, which would have, it would have been the destruction of humanity.
And it came like, it was so close to happening.
And it didn't happen because of just like very, very, like in the moment decisions
that Kennedy made or like people around him made that split decisions.
There wasn't like, like plans.
They didn't, they didn't know what was going to happen.
Right.
And the story about MLK is fascinating on how they got before JFK was elected.
The African-American vote going back to Lincoln was always Republican.
And right before they, JFK was getting elected, he had his campaign managers.
They had a separate secret building behind their main, like headquarters where
they got their donations and talked to people or whatever, because they wanted
to get the African-American vote, but they couldn't let the white Southerners
know about that because they lose their votes.
So they had these covert, like preachers go to all the churches around in a bunch
of states around the US and hand out these flyers.
But they had these preachers, it was like they weren't connected to JFK at all.
Right. It didn't look like they were a part of the JFK campaign.
They were just like showing the people at these churches saying, like, look,
this guy's going to help us with civil rights.
We have to vote for him.
And that was during the last week, right before the polls were supposed to come
in, right before everyone went to vote.
And it flipped seven states where the African-American vote went democratic
and he barely won that election in the last week of the campaign.
And if it wasn't for that, it was very likely that we wouldn't be here
sitting here talking here today.
We'd be a dead planet.
And there's probably thousands of dead planets out in this Milky Way
galaxy right now that didn't make it past the nuclear age, thousands of them.
And I think these beings out there know it, which is why they showed up at our
nuclear sprites and decided to deactivate nukes and show us that you guys don't
really have all the power you think you have.
And I think that this planet is a jewel in the suburbs of the Milky Way.
And I think that this planet is going to be protected.
That's just my personal feeling, which is probably why all these little
slight things just seem to happen just the right way to allow us to escape.
You know, what seemed like it was going to be complete destruction.
I remember in school, you know, in the seventies, being told to ball up
and get under the desk, right?
You know, and this is what you got to do when the nuke goes off.
And I'm like, what?
This house is going to desk going to save me.
I'm going to be dead anyway.
I mean, but you know, the kids, we all got to get underneath the desk and
everything else.
And and this Cold War, and I started digging and researching the Cold War from
back then, and I said, man, this is such a great money makers.
I just knew from back then in the eighties, when I started really digging
deep into the Cold War, that it was a way for both countries to make a lot
of money from the people and they create industry, which is exactly what they did.
They fueled industry and a lot of money off of the Cold War propaganda.
But at any moment, it could have popped off.
We just, you know, and it still could.
But I think now it's a little bit less likely that it will happen.
But we really, we really need to, you know, I don't know how we're going to do
it, but these nukes, they got to go.
Even the Andronike had that problem.
It's, you see, that's something that I have trouble wrapping my head around.
Because you think of our timeline, like from where human beings are now and
the way we're evolving and the way we develop new technology.
The most innovation comes out of war, right?
And aerospace and all these military contractors.
The most money goes into military contractors innovating, like DARPA, right?
Like innovating these crazy, doing all, throwing billions of dollars
into this blue sky research to develop new things and test new things.
Psychokinesis, remote viewing.
If there's a 1% chance it'll help us with intelligence, we'll throw
millions of dollars at it, right?
That's the primary, primary way that we innovate today.
It's fueled by wars.
Yes, exactly right.
I'm wondering, it's hard for me to fathom that if there was some enlightened
spiritual, highly technical civilization that existed way before us, is that
the same way they evolved?
Like where the pyramids built with the same mindset?
I think that we're living in a cycle, in a cycle of advancement that our cycle
on this planet has probably been duplicated with many different
species of beings, sentient conscious beings, through many, many worlds
throughout the entire universe.
And so we're going through a phase, this phase is to everything.
Just like this phase is to growth of a seed to a full sapling or tree.
We're in this same exact phase.
And I think that one of the things that a civilization goes through is
learning how to split the atom.
First of all, finding out that the atom has an unparalleled source of energy
inside of it, and then being able to learn how to split it and create a chain
reaction.
And so I believe that this is something that's standard, a standard growth
process, and through this process, just like in some versions of micro evolution
where I believe in micro evolution, not macro, but micro, you'll see that
things will branch off in different ways.
So some civilizations will go this way, hard, hard, right, and collapse.
Some civilizations go left and they survive.
And I believe we're right in the middle right now.
We haven't gone left or right yet.
We're standing right in the middle, right under precipice.
We have a choice.
We can go right and collapse or we can go left, which is why a lot of
billionaires want to leave this planet.
They want to get the hell out of here.
They want to go to Mars.
Do you, have you seen or heard of Chris Dunn's new book called The Tesla
Connection with about the Geese of Power Plant?
He basically updated his whole theory on the pyramids.
It just got delivered because I had it on pre-order.
And when I was out of country all this time, it came to my house.
I finally opened up all that piles of mail and saw his book there.
Yeah.
So he reworked his whole original theory on the Geese of Power Plant.
And he made now in a nutshell, his theory is that it was a solid state
electron harvester that harvested vibrations deep within igneous rock,
deep within the earth, like with earthquakes.
You know, like with near fault lines, there's this phenomena where people
will see like balls of like plasma light come up into the atmosphere.
And he had a NASA scientist talk about this.
This guy actually did a TED talk where he talked all about how these
these lights that would come up through fault lines, they would come up
days or weeks before earthquakes.
And they were indicators of how to avoid destruction and death with earthquakes.
Like if so, if you start to see these balls of light coming up at night near
fault lines, you know, to get the hell out because there's going to be an earthquake.
And they did studies and they found out, in fact, yeah, they did.
They found out, yeah, there were earthquakes following these balls of light
that were coming up into the atmosphere.
And it connects with his whole theory that these pyramids, I think it's 14
square acres that the Great Pyramid covers.
There was that subterranean chamber under the, I mean, you've been there many times.
I've never been there.
I've been in the subterranean chamber.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
They opened it for me.
It went down.
Yeah.
So he, so his theory is that there was a hydraulic hammer or something in there
that would go off and create seismic vibrations within the earth.
And that would somehow resonate up through the grand gallery into the
king's chamber.
And then there was also around the pyramids, apparently there's these cavities in
the ground where they would pour some sort of chemical and the shafts that go
out of the pyramid, those would fill up with liquid hydrogen.
And they were sort of like microwave emitters.
I believe that.
I talked about that in a lot of my lectures over the last maybe eight years.
Really?
Yes.
I talk about the fact that those shafts were there because the way the
queen's chamber is set up, you can see that it is set up for at least like my
my perception of it is that it is set up to extract hydrogen from the water that
would run up in there from the aquifer that used to be underneath the pyramid.
And the shafts, they're pointed and aligned perfectly with star systems.
What do we use right now in astrophysics to try to communicate with ET?
We use the frequency of hydrogen to send our messages.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yes.
So I believe that we were sending messages to Aldebron, to Orion and all these
other series that we're aligned with on those particular alignments with the
Great Pyramid.
We know these alignments are real because it's even in mainstream science to send
communications.
This is a report on Earth.
This is where we are right now.
This is what's going on.
This is how developed we've done, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Kind of a, you know, a report as to what's going on, a communication back home to
these different star systems.
And so that's what I believe those shafts were for, for that.
Plus also the fact that the pyramid itself was generating power.
I think the Great Pyramid is a multifunctional stone computer and power
generator.
It had multifunctions, not just one or two, but probably 10 or 15 functions.
Yeah.
And he apparently there was like a big explosion that happened, like a hydrogen
explosion that happened within the King's chamber that sort of like blew it all
apart when there apparently that was like during, maybe during the younger dry as
one of those cosmic impacts came through, there was too much energy.
There's a picture of me standing right next to the, to the granite box on the
inside and the corner.
I'm pointing to it because it's broken off.
I'll send you this.
Right, right.
If you can look across the room though, and you can see where it hit the granite
wall and made the exact same indention from the corner piece and destroyed the
granite wall in the corner.
So it flew about 20 feet across the room and smashed and broke solid granite in
the same exact corner piece angle.
Yeah.
I show up every time I take people into the King's chamber.
That's the first thing I showed.
Man, if I was Elon Musk and I had all that money, instead of buying Twitter, I
would just try to get like reverse engineer that pyramid and figure out what
that was.
I know, I know.
Right by the pyramid.
You know, who, who owns the rights to the interior of the Great Pyramid?
NASA.
What?
They, they own the what?
The rights.
I was told by one of the guys a couple of years ago that, you know, get as much as
you can coming in here because they say that they may one day shut off access to
the King's chamber.
I said, why would they do that?
He said, well, they're afraid that, you know, it's going to the pyramid's
earthquake or something could make it unstable.
I'm like, this thing has been here for thousands of years.
It's not going to become unstable.
That's foolishness.
What's happening is they've discovered something technological about it and they
want to control it.
So NASA owns the rights to the interior of the Great Pyramid.
Yes.
That's spooky, man.
They also own the rights to a section of the Grand Canyon.
So there's a, I took a helicopter down into the Grand Canyon.
They said, we can't walk to this area.
That area I heard had some old carvings or something would be over in this area.
So I started trying to walk that way.
And this guy pops out of nowhere with all black on black hat, black military
outfit with no logos and AR 15 and tells me, ha, you can't go any further.
I'm like, why?
I said, what's going on?
Well, didn't they tell you couldn't come over here?
I said, well, they did.
But I'm thinking, you know, I just want to see, you know, what's over here.
Right.
All right.
And he says, you can't come.
I said, well, why?
I said, can you just tell me, sir, like, why can't I come over here?
He says, NASA owns the rights to this section.
You can't come over here.
At the Grand Canyon.
At the Grand Canyon.
Do you have any theories of why that is?
This guy to be technological starts in something with space.
And then also, where else?
Chaco Canyon.
Same situation.
They actually own the rights to those, those round former things that looked
like they might have been domes or whatever.
And now there's no dome, but you can see those round circles.
Where are those at?
Chaco Canyon.
That's in South America.
And so it's like, so wait a minute, what's going on here?
How in the world are, what are they doing?
As soon as India sent that satellite to Mars and took a color image of Mars,
the real color with the oceans and the water and everything of Mars,
the director of NASA flew straight to India.
And the next thing you know, about a month later, they're signing a deal there.
It's a whole press release about it.
And they now put them under their umbrella.
And the next thing you know, that image, they put something called
false color on it, turned the whole thing red.
Oh, wow.
Now, the newest image of Mars just got released.
I have an image that I took with my Celestron telescope and a new one just came out.
This new image of Mars.
How long ago?
Just the other day.
Really?
They finally let somebody see what Mars really looks like.
That's right there.
So, and I'm going to send you the one I took years ago with my Celestron 130 telescope.
Earth.com.
Steve, if you could find it, find out it's called Planet Mars,
captured in true color for the first time ever.
It's on Earth.com.
Wow.
What is all the blue supposed to be?
Water.
Really?
Guess what they just said about Mars recently.
They said that the soil on Mars is better for growing crops than the soil on Earth.
Yeah, look at this, man.
How do they know that?
Let me see if I could find my image of Mars.
So, if we're trying to make our species interplanetary to start some sort of
breakaway civilization in case the Earth, we kill ourselves or destroy the planet.
Wouldn't we want to go to the moon first?
Isn't that the most logical first step?
It's too close to the Earth.
So, you see, if you look at what happened to Mars, Mars was orbiting Tiamat,
at least according to the enumerable list.
Let's not say according to mainstream science.
Right.
But there's a hypothesis I have that this information is true because one side of
Mars is completely charred and the other side is the most smoothed surface in the solar system.
So, why is that?
Well, you can see that it had a global flood number one.
And why is one side charred on Mars?
One side is charred, the other side smoothed because the side that's charred when
that planet exploded, a huge chunk of mass crashed into Mars,
charring and burning one side and causing a global flood around the backside.
Then slung it into that weird elliptical orbit that it's in right now.
And so, Mars, you know, the moon is too close.
Mars is really kind of too close.
Mars equator shifted 45 degrees.
It's like this because why?
That mass that hit it from whatever hit it and created a pole shift of the crust of
the planet and shifted the equator by 45 degrees.
And we know that in mainstream science.
So, you want to work to Mars and then move out from Mars.
The good thing about Mars is there's a lot more resources there than on the moon.
Like there's water, there's elements, there's gold.
You need gold for technology.
There's a lot of gold there in veins.
There's also atmosphere.
There's weather patterns and weather cycles and rain cycles and everything else.
So, you can go to Mars and there's less gravity on Earth.
Like if you and I went to Mars, we'd be supermen.
You can pick up a boulder and throw it.
You dunk on a 20 foot rim because our gravity, our net gravity from the way our
bones are structured is based on Earth's net gravity.
Mars is smaller than Earth.
So, when we get to Mars, now we are, we had grown up here on Earth.
Our, our strength is magnified by a third on Mars.
John, John Carter, John Carter was like real.
And that aspect of the movie was real.
The difference between the strength here and the strength there running and jumping
and all that, that's real.
So, it's pretty interesting.
Now, if you had kids there, they would grow up underneath Mars gravity.
The first generation would be strong, but not as strong as you.
The second generation would be equalized to Mars gravity.
Right.
We adapt and evolve based on Mars.
Exactly.
On the way.
Now, that's my picture that I took with my Celestron telescope.
You see there of Mars in the summer.
So, I took that years ago, years ago.
I think I took that picture about six years ago.
So, I can send it to you.
Yeah.
So, what's cool about it is clearly you can see it's not a dry, cold rock.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's glowing.
Yeah.
And many people have now taken their same photos because they got inspired by me and
posted them on the Celestron site and other blogs and Astrophysics forum and
Astronomy forums because they're saying, yeah, this is crazy.
This guy was right.
I'm like, yeah, I'm right.
That's Mars.
A good old Celestron telescope.
Get it at Walmart.com.
You get that thing at Walmart?
Yeah.
Really?
$500.
Wow.
We need a Celestron telescope in here.
Yeah.
And it has a star finder in it.
So, it makes it easy to find all the stars.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh, that's incredible.
Just key the code and boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
There you go.
Wow.
So, the find stuff.
Yes.
That's amazing.
So, yeah.
So, what is your next book?
You mentioned briefly earlier before we started that you had a new book coming out soon.
New book, Fractal Holographic Universe.
The Fractal Holographic Universe.
Yes.
What's that book?
Well, how do you explain that in English?
Well, I discovered that the universe itself is working on something called Fractal Holography.
And this was discovered a long time ago by Benoit Mandelbrot, who discovered the Mandelbrot
set of mathematical equation.
And this equation was picked up by Pixar Studios when they discovered that that equation,
that very short, small equation, can literally fuel an entire creation in software.
It allows the characters to come to life and almost let each scene appear as is needed,
just like we'd live in this third dimension.
He discovered that our third dimension runs off of fractals and that we're living in a
fractal holographic matrix and that everything, the next frame appears as we need it.
So, right now, we're sitting in here.
We can't see the street, but as soon as we walk out of this room and head towards the
street, the street appears.
The street isn't really there.
It exists as a wave of potentials until a conscious observer collapses it into a solid
structure.
Like a video game?
Like a video game.
And to back this up, Professor James Gates Jr., he also discovered, with a team of
theoretical physicists and experts in supersymmetry, that the fundamental ether of
space-time itself is running off of something called adinkra codes.
And these adinkra codes are three-dimensional mathematical codes that represent error
correcting codes.
The same exact codes that are in search engine browsers and websites is fueling and
running this universe.
So, you combine those two things together, we're living inside of a matrix.
Now, what is the matrix made of?
It's made of light.
How do we know this?
Through the LHC, the Large Hadron Collider.
You smash particles together and atoms together.
We know that they emit light.
We know that at the deepest level, everything is made of light and that when, because of
the double slit experiment, when you're not looking at matter, it operates as a wave,
a wave of light, a wave of potentials, until you look at it, it collapses in the
subtlety, again, or digital matter.
So, they said, let's look deep into the heart of matter.
And the deeper we look, the more we discover that you can see the hole in the
smallest piece, not only that, but the only thing you lose, the deeper you look is you
lose some resolution.
So, we know now that we are all immersed, fully immersed, inside of a matrix of light.
And it goes deeper than that.
Where did this matrix come from?
Where is it being broadcast from?
Scientists in the laboratory discovered how to make an eighth dimensional
quasi-crystal.
And then they pointed this quasi-crystal in a particular angle, which cast down a
fourth dimensional quasi-crystal.
And when they put that in a particular angle, it created a sphere.
And that sphere is what we're living in, a sphere of light matrix.
We're living in the shadow of a higher dimension, not a shadow of a dark shadow,
but a shadow of light from a higher dimension.
That's where we're located.
And this dimension that we're in, this universe that we're in, that's made of
this fractal holographic light, it is probably not base reality at all.
We're probably not even close to base reality.
Fourteen students at a university created a game called No Man's Sky.
Yes.
Unlimited, 80 quadrillion worlds in this program, unlimited life forms, and the
game never ends.
They were talking recently about, what if we inject AI into this software?
That's on one DVD.
You put AI in there, now these beings are alive.
Hey, who made us?
Where did we come from?
Who's our God?
When did the Big Bang start?
The Big Bang is when we turn on the console.
So now all of a sudden we're creating universes.
And so will be the Sims.
The Sims will be conscious with AI.
The Sims are going to create programs and software within the software, within
the program, and then they're going to create the universe.
I think that there's many layers to reality.
And I don't think we're close to base.
I think that we're just one of Googles of actual simulations that are running
simultaneously.
There, now these quasi crystals, those are, like people take those seriously.
Like I've heard that there's scientists and people at NASA that are using
quasi crystals to like use those for medical applications.
Medical applications, quantum computing, you name it.
This is a new wave, quasi crystals.
What actually is a quasi crystal?
It's a crystal that has particular angles on it, that in a particular
resonant vibration that gives it the capability of resonating at higher
frequencies, even in the higher dimensions.
So where do they, where do they get, are they made?
Then we make them or do we find them?
They found a way to artificially create these, which is pretty interesting.
So they artificially created an eighth dimensional quasi crystal.
And if you look, look it up, you'll find some pretty interesting articles about this.
How are they making quasi crystals?
Did they make them in like, in a lab, in a laboratory?
Yeah, in the laboratory.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's pretty crazy stuff.
But from that, they accidentally found out that through these quasi crystals.
They said, oh, wait a minute, now we see what's going on here.
We're actually living in the shadow of this dimension, which is pretty
pretty wild stuff.
Can you find out like how they're making them, Steve, like or where they're
making quasi, quasi, quasi periodic structures with a type of symmetry that
is not allowed for ordinary crystals.
Unlike traditional crystals, the atoms and the quasi crystals are arranged
in a pattern that repeats itself, or that repeats itself at irregular intervals.
And they have a specific vibration.
That vibration that they're resonating at is access is higher dimensions.
There's a great YouTube video about this.
I don't know if you can even get a snippet or a clip of it to use.
But if you go to YouTube and type in, you know, eight dimensional quasi crystal,
you get something pretty interesting.
This young lady, they're talking about it.
If it's still up there, maybe that's been years since I looked at it.
Probably haven't looked at it since 2017.
But it's pretty interesting stuff.
Look at you.
Look at me.
There I go, right there, right away.
That's on, that's on, that's on this podcast.
That's on your podcast, of course, of course, your hundred million view.
Clee Irwin.
Okay, Clee Irwin.
That's who, yeah, we had a guy that works with him on here.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, keep scrolling down, scroll down.
There you go.
That girl right there, that girl.
Yeah.
I want to tell you about crystals.
You might be surprised to know that a crystal isn't an expensive piece of glass
or a chandelier in some fancy dining room.
The word crystal simply means a pattern that is periodic.
Look at this checkerboard pattern.
See how it continues to spread out infinitely in each direction?
That means it's a periodic pattern.
So that's a two dimensional crystal.
This is another two dimensional crystal.
And this is another.
You can also have three dimensional crystals.
By the way, this 3D glass is called crystal because its atoms are actually
arranged in a crystalline pattern.
So see how I'm projecting this three dimensional crystal to a two dimensional
image on the sand?
See how the 2D projection looks distorted because of the angle of the projection?
That 2D image also has a pattern, but it isn't periodic.
So it's not a crystal.
But there's a deep connection between the 2D object on the sand and the 3D
mother crystal.
This distorted 2D pattern is called a quasi crystal.
A quasi crystal in a certain dimension, in this case 2D, is a projection of a
crystal in a higher dimension, in this case, 3D.
A group of physicists in Los Angeles is working on a new physics theory for a
particular 8D crystal.
Yep, that's right.
An eight dimensional crystal is projected to 4D at a very particular angle,
which forms a 4D quasi crystal.
And from this 4D quasi crystal, they derive a 3D quasi crystal, which they
believe is the fundamental substructure of all of reality.
Wow, that was excellent.
That was very well done.
Yeah.
That was the best I've had anyone's ever described that to me.
Yeah.
Is there a way to test this or a way to prove it?
Well, I mean, that's what they're doing.
I mean, they're spending millions of dollars on grant money on that every single day.
So I think they know what they're talking about.
Yeah, this is why I'm writing the book because it needs to be told.
People need to understand.
Adam, when I say holographic universe, people
instantaneously believe that that means we're not real.
It doesn't mean that we're not real.
What I'm explaining to you is we're living in a creation.
Just as all the ancient texts and all the religions actually say, I'm explaining
the fundamental basis of the reality that's been created.
What is the method of creation?
What is it that we're actually in?
How was this method?
How was this creation built?
What is the structure of it?
That's what people need to know.
Because I think when you figure that out, you begin to realize a lot more about
who you are and life and your place in the multiverse.
Wow, man, that's wild.
Well, I can't wait to get my hands on that book.
Billy, thank you for coming and doing this, man.
Thank you. I really appreciate it.
Thank you. It's been enlightening.
And I have more questions, I feel like, than I had when I started this podcast.
But what do you got going on next?
Any big tours or any big trips going on?
Where you got any new places you want to explore?
A lot of cool stuff.
We're going to take people to Turkey.
We're taking 80 people to Turkey in September.
There's still a few spots left and people want to register.
Let's go to ForbiddenKnowledge.com and look for tours.
The first time, first tour of its type, where we're taking people on a pretty
much exclusive, we're doing private tours.
In other words, no tourists will be allowed at these sites.
They got to get out.
When we go to some places, we got to kick out the tourists and we have that power.
Private tour of Derrin Kuyu, private, which is an underground city
that can hold 30,000 people in ancient times, 14,000 ventilation shafts
leading to the higher levels, bringing oxygen all the way to the depths.
No collapse.
Going to Karahan Tepe, to Gobekli Tepe and all these other ancient
sites throughout Turkey.
It's going to be a mind blowing, phenomenal tour tying ancient sites
together from around the world.
We're going to show the the iconology.
We're going to show symbols that match from different places in the world
that show up in Turkey.
And then we're going to do this in September and October.
We're going to do Egypt again, an incredible 12 day tour.
I'll be lecturing seven days on the tour, plus I'll be the guide as well.
And we're going to have nine private visits in ancient Egypt.
We're going to go to places that people never thought they can even get into.
Some places I haven't been to yet because they were locked from the seal for 50, 60 years.
Private plated dinners inside of ancient temples.
It's a trip that, you know, it'll change somebody's life.
We're going to go hiking inside of pyramids, underneath pyramids and ancient
crypts and so forth.
And then don't forget, we have the Conscious Awards coming up.
The Forbidden Conscious Awards, the second annual.
The first one was amazing.
1,200 people showed up in Miami.
This one's going to be August 2nd, 3rd and 4th.
This time it's a three day event in Miami, same location.
The Adrian R Center.
We're going to give people their flowers while they're still alive
and recognize them for the work they're doing in this community.
Podcasters, radio hosts, you know, TV hosts, researchers, archaeologists,
you name it, scientists, everybody.
And we can hold 1,800 people in this one.
That we moved to a different venue in the same location.
1,800 people can fit there.
Three day event, celebrity basketball game to raise money for underprivileged
children.
The next day is going to be a speaking conference.
And the evening that same day is going to be a VIP yacht party.
And the next day is going to be a book signing, a meet and greet,
and then an afternoon red carpet photos.
And that evening will be the awards show.
That's incredible, man.
You know how to do it big, Billy Carson.
You got to do it big, man.
That's what we're here for.
We're here to turn heaven to earth and we're here to live now, not later.
I'm not going to wait to die so I can live.
Everybody, thank you for listening.
Thank you for coming.
I'll link all your stuff below.
If you're watching, stay around.
We're going to do a Patreon post show.
If you're a fan of Patreon and you want to support us,
you can go there, check it out.
And that's it.
Good night, world.
Cool.
