Thanks for doing this, bro. I really appreciate it. You are quite the traveled, cultured person.
You came from Australia, lived in... Where'd you live after Australia?
Singapore.
Singapore.
Yeah.
And then now you're living in Northern California.
Yep.
Yep.
How... Before we start, like, getting into what you're doing with your YouTube channel
Uncharted X, which is fascinating. I wanted to talk a little bit about how you started
in IT. You started working for HP.
Well, yeah. Back in the day, it was a digital deck. If people remember the deck, it's Digital
Equipment Corporation, I think. And then they were acquired by Compaq. And then they were
acquired by HP, but yeah, ended up being HP. So more or less 20 years in that company.
And that's what made you move to Singapore?
It was, yeah. So my background was in networking. So basically, I came out of university, actually
dropped out of university to start running ISPs back in the day of dial-up modems and
56K modems, that kind of fun stuff. Back when that was a thing, no longer a thing now.
But I started doing that. And then pre-Y2K, the companies were coming to town doing defense
contracts for getting things ready, infrastructure ready for the Y2K problem. All of a sudden,
massive issue of what happens when things turn to year 2000, all these clocks and all
of the chips and stuff might have all these issues. So there was a lot of contracts going
around and they were looking for people to help them kind of survey and work on defense
sites mostly. And I just got picked up. I applied for this job and they figured out
that I knew what I was doing on networks because I would go into these defense sites and I
was supposed to be just putting disks into computers and testing computers, but I'd end
up mapping out the entire network on these defense bases. And they went, well, we really
need your help and come down and help us because the workload is huge. We're trying to do this
for all of these defense sites. And of course, you've got this hard stop with Y2K. But that
was it. Yeah, I moved, they pulled me into the corner corporate defense, big government,
infrastructure world. And that's where I stayed for a long time.
And you told me you traveled to China something like 25 times?
Yeah.
Yeah. So it was, we were, HP itself had a, had a, they were a vendor, they make network
equipment. So, you know, we were trying to grow a business in Asia Pacific. And I begin,
I was one of kind of the technical experts or guys that would focus on a lot of the technical
side of things in Asia Pacific. So I ended up doing a lot of stuff in Australia and then
it just would branch out and out. And then they moved their headquarters to Singapore.
And I like come and, come and live in Singapore and work there. So I did that. But yeah, as part
of this, our whole region was Asia Pacific in Japan bump that. And yeah, I ended up going to
China over those 20 years, probably more than 20 times. It's, it's, I definitely have traveled
quite a bit in that career was like one year we can't remember coming to the States seven times
in a year while I was living in Singapore. It's just an awful lot of travel involved in that
type of a role. And then eventually they were like, Hey, our global headquarters were in,
we're in Roosevelt, California, which is North, Northern California. And they were like,
come and come and work over here. I said, yep, okay, sounds good. So been, been in the States
ever since is all this global traveling and spending time in China and Singapore and all
these places. Is that what got you interested in the history of civilization and the human
timeline and all that stuff? Or is that, would that have happened? Would that have interest
been sparked if you hadn't been all these places? Possibly, but I actually have to,
I've always had an interest in history. My mother was a history teacher. So I did history
through school. It was an elective in high school. I almost went in that direction at university
before realizing that if I actually wanted to make money in life, I should probably go in
the other direction of IT. And I was way more interested in the computer side of stuff at
that point in my life. But I'd always had an interest. I'd always read and like I'd read
books on the Romans and I'd had an interest in history for a long time. And I would take time
when I would go to places like in China. I've been to the Great Wall. I've been to a lot of the
museums. I've been to like the cultural sites. I haven't seen any of the pyramids. I didn't even
know those things existed. Not that you can easily tour those or anything. But I would always take
time in these places, Japan, you know, even when I was living in Asia and Cambodia, things like that
to visit these sites. But it really wasn't until I met, well, I had read and knew who Graham Hancock
was. In fact, it was his first appearance on the Rogan show that really sort of started to suck me
into that side of things when it comes to, well, there's actually like this massive mystery that's
buried at the deepest part of our history in the earliest parts of our civilization. And it's got
a lot to do with kind of who we are as a human species and what our history is and what's happened.
And then I had the chance to travel with Graham through Bolivia and Peru in 2013. And then through
Egypt in 2015 for a couple of weeks. So I did tours. He was saying, hey, he was doing research for
magicians of the gods, which was the follow up to his fingerprints of the gods, probably the work
that he's most well known for, that first really proposes the idea that there's an ancient lost
civilization that may be at the root of all of our ancient civilizations as we know them.
So once I had that chance to really spend some time with him. And in particular in Egypt, I met
a guy named Yusuf Aowan, who if anyone who's seen my videos will be familiar with Yusuf.
We took a day off from one of the days on the tour and we went out to a site called Abysseir.
And he showed me a lot of the technological and technical details in the stonework that just
blew my mind. I knew nothing about this stuff before. And that that was when I just decided
like, oh, there's so much here. And trying to find information on this stuff is so difficult at that
point. Because, you know, a lot of this data is buried in these books like Chris Dunn had written
his books on lost technologies of ancient Egypt. There's a few of these engineers that have dug
into it, guys like Graham Hancock, Robert Boval, these authors that wrote about this story and
about this mystery. It's this information that's buried in these books. You have to be into the
topic to understand it. But I thought, you know, this is at the same time we're seeing the rise of
the like consumer grade, high quality stabilized video equipment. And nobody had really gone out
and looked at these sites, taken a fresh look at them with some high quality footage and combined
it with some of these ideas and these and these new concepts, these new ways of looking at history
that is buried in his books. So I thought, you know, there's an opportunity here to go and do
that. That's what I wanted to do. So yeah, a couple of years traveling and filming specifically
for that. And then found myself on YouTube in the end and kind of growing it from there. It's,
you know, I didn't know the first thing about it getting into it, but it's been it's been
interesting, right? Yeah, man, it's crazy that you have videos like I've never seen it of our
plus video that just does a deep dive on some of the most minute details of some of the artifacts
in ancient Egypt. Like for example, you spend up there's like an hour plus video where you all
you did was look at the core drilling. Yep. And the little threads that wrap around these cores
that were drilled out of these pieces of granite and basalt. It's fascinating, man. Thank you. Yeah,
it's it's it's exactly how I feel about it. It's absolutely fascinating. And if you set that
stuff up in the right context, I think the implications of it is what's truly fascination.
It's it's it's when you realize that there's there is evidence of
techniques and tools that we use that simply do not match the things that we find in the
archaeological record. Like there's there's there's all sorts of evidence from all sorts of
different angles that suggest that our our concept of of the earliest parts of our history
most likely incorrect. Our idea of what the history of human civilizations is
is most likely incorrect. There's there's lots of angles and vectors that come at this problem.
And one of them happens to be the the technical evidence and the engineering evidence that's
on sites, the oldest sites that we know of in places like Egypt. You know, it's and that's
I want to be clear that when I talk about like, you know, rewriting history, I usually I'm talking
about the very origins of human civilization as we know it. We've got a pretty good grip on
things from about the times of the Romans and the Greeks. And, you know, from then on, right,
we've got a good understanding of it. It wasn't until that time, I think that we started to
have multiple sources that would that would detail and record single events so you can start to get
corroboration through the story of history. But the further back you go, the more muddy it gets.
And this idea that civilization itself started only 6000 years ago. And with the Babylonians
and Sumerians is is it's it's an antiquated it's an antiquated idea at this point. It's
it is still the mainstream picture of history. But there has been so much and it's it's been
that picture. It's been that story for probably about 100 years, like our idea of when civilization
started around 6000 years ago. And we were all stone age before that has been in place for
probably a century or more now. And I mean, at least from the age of enlightenment and the age
of reason as that as that started to grow. But there's been so much development, so many new
discoveries and so many adjacent sciences to history itself that have made discoveries and
really pushed this field back. They should be having the impact on the story of history, but
they don't. So that's, you know, that's one of the that's one of the angles that I like to take on it.
And one of the particular elements of that that I'm fascinated with is the the technological
evidence that suggests that there was something else going on a long time ago. And there's another
model that fits our model of particularly the Egyptian civilization, but also that of South
America and Easter Island and Turkey and a few other places. And it's an inheritance model,
this idea that these civilizations didn't just emerge out of the stone age from nowhere and
immediately peak and immediately build the greatest pyramids and things we've ever seen that are
still standing, which is today the story, right? All the the greatest works of Egypt are the old
Kingdom works that happened in the earliest parts of their civilization and they kind of declined
forever since then. That doesn't make any sense from a technological perspective. So that that
ever look at our civilization as a as a technological evolution, like we have we have ramped up to
space shuttles and space flight. And you know, we you know, we it takes time to develop that
capability. But when we look at places like Egypt, it's it's the inverse. It's like they
peaked early from out of nowhere, apparently, and then dipped off. And there's another model that works
really well to explain that. And it's it's an inheritance model. So it's the idea that
maybe they didn't start with nothing. Maybe they inherited some of these concepts, some of their
artwork, some of their objects, their architecture, their their artifacts for people who real quick
for people who aren't familiar with your videos and your story and the overall
scholar scholarly timeline that's basically the the the known narrative that's taught in
school books and textbooks. What is the like 30,000 foot overall accepted view of history as we
know it. So according to the accepted view of history is that we have been in the Stone Age
up until around 6000 years ago. So, you know, call it 4000, between 4000 and 5000 BC was when we
started this is and this is the the the standard model, if you like, that's when we started to
develop things like agriculture and organized society and civilization itself began to begin.
So prior to that time, human beings were just hunter gatherers like like Stone Age technology,
we were we weren't organized in any way. And so once this was like 200,000 years ago, right?
No, no, no. Well, Stone Age, yes. So that's the idea of civilization itself is only 6000 or so
years old. Like the the as long as humans have existed before that, the idea is that no, we
would just Stone Age hunter gatherers. Now that that may have made sense when we were
considered to be maybe 50,000 years old as a species. We we and that was the case we thought
we were around 50,000 years old for a long time. And then some discoveries were made that that put
the human like human remains were found that, you know, anatomically correct and modern human
beings were there from about 150,000 years old years ago. Sorry. And then recently in the last
is one of those discoveries that should really have an impact on history is that in the last 10
years has been there's been human remains like anatomically correct human remains found in Morocco
that date homo sapiens us back to around 300,000 years old. So, you know, you have to once you
get into that range of say 300,000 years old and here's another thing that to throw that out there
again new science that should be impacting the story of history genetic evidence, the DNA evidence
shows that that us and Neanderthals split from a common ancestor somewhere in the realm of 800
to 900,000 years ago. So that's that's what I would consider the the range of possibility for human
timeline. So for sure, we've got human remains 300,000 years old. We may have been here up to
800 to 900,000 years ago. And for all of that time, you're going back, you're not talking,
it's not like planet snowball back in that time, we've got warm periods, you know, periods of where
there would have been plenty and like the same type of anatomically correct and modern thinking
human beings getting together. And it's not we start to solve problems like we do develop
civilization and develop like problem solving capabilities generation by generation. So it's
it's kind of hard to think that it only at the very tiny tippy end of that whole period,
let's say 300,000 years long, only the last 6000 years has been the development of civilization.
That's the standard model. Right. And basically what you have found, specifically going into
places like Egypt, is that the narrative of Egypt alone is that from the start of Egypt
until the end of the ancient, what is that the last civilization that was in Egypt was the
Old Kingdom or? No, well, then I guess they would call it the New Kingdom and then the Greco-Roman
period. The Romans took it either Cleopatra was the last kind of. Right, right, right. So
essentially what you have discovered there is that some of the things when you look into
engineering and the way that some of these stones were cut and moved don't fit the timeline with
what is accepted to be their advancement technologically with tools because they only had
copper tools and chisels and some of the stones that you found in your videos that you show were
clearly cut by like a very, very high precision blade or something like that because they
produced perfectly smooth surfaces like you would see in somebody's kitchen on their granite
countertop. Right. Well, yeah, some services end up that way. Yeah, so it's the technological
evidence and we can come back. There's lots of other sort of supporting evidence for this
hypothesis and I should say too is not necessarily my discovery. A lot of people notice this
particularly engineers. Anyone like Chris Dunn is probably the most well-known because he actually
published on it. He's an engineer, but I've taken and been in Egypt with many engineers and
they just shake their heads and almost uniformly engineers, the people that know stone mason,
stone workers, engineers, construction guys will tell you that there is no way that these finishes
and the stones and the artifacts that we see in Egypt could have been accomplished with the tools
that we know the dynastic Egyptians used. So the real problem is it doesn't fit the tools
and the techniques that are in the archaeological record. All the depictions that we have
where the Egyptians show them working on certain things. So in the early days, yeah,
all they had was copper and they had pounding stones. It's a misnomer. The copper chisels is
kind of a bit of a joke at this point because obviously copper and bronze itself won't do
anything to granite, but they did have flint. They had pounding stones. So there are ways that you
can use other stone material to shape harder stones like that. And they even give you like,
if you go visit there, they'll even give you some of these pounding stones and let you like practice
hitting these big rocks. In the quarry at Aswan, yeah, where there's literally a 1200 ton obelisk
still in its bed that hasn't been detached from the bedrock and it's was supposed to have been
lifted up and used as an obelisk. And supposedly it was shaped by pounding stones, which they,
you know, they, it's funny, when you visit the quarry, it's one of those places they
indoctrinate you before you go in. You have to sit down in a room and watch like a 20 minute video
about how it was done. Because then you get out there and you look at it, no one really ever
believes like that's how it was done. I did a video recently on it, like a deep dive into
that. It's like an hour long video looking at the scoop marks and the pounding stone techniques.
And there's just, there's, there's very little evidence that supports that that could have been
done that way. And in fact, there's been some experiments and a lot of, I like to look at
all sides of the argument. And there have been experiments by mainstream Egyptologists like
Mark Lane and Zahi Was that tried to show that that was the technique that was used. But even in
those experiments, they had to resort to using bulldozers and power tools and, and modern techniques
to do anything. And it's one of the things that I have a, that I'd like to talk about when it,
that, that annoys me about this is that there's amongst all of the naysayers, the people that
say, Oh no, that definitely the Egyptians could have done it this way. They could have just,
instead of using like circular saws and some form of power tool to cut the blocks of basalt and
granite, which is what the evidence suggests. They'll say, no, no, it was just done with grinding.
They would grind it with a copper bar and sand and water and they would just sit there and grind
through it. And there's been, so there's been experiments done to see how long that would take.
And, but not amongst that, they'll cut like a couple of inches over a period of days and days
and days of work. And as far as I know, this is the, the crazy thing is that not a single
block has been fully cut, not a single box has ever been formed. We've not replicated a single
object in its entirety that we see from ancient Egypt, but we're claiming that these are the
tools and techniques that, that, that, that we use to, to make them. So even the people that
are absolutely sure on the, the standard model and saying, no, no, these primitive tools were used,
we've not made a single cut. Like we've not cut a single large block between and you have to,
when you see Egypt, if you go there, the scale of it boggles the mind. We're talking millions of
tons of, of extremely hard stone. And this is back in the day, you've got to remember too,
a lot of this granite that is used, particularly in the old kingdom, the earliest parts of, of
the Egyptian civilization. This was supposedly before the Egyptians had the ability to quarry
the granite from the, it's like a real contradiction in the story of history of, of which there are
many. But one of them is that they supposedly didn't have the ability to quarry granite
until later times, because in later periods, the middle kingdom, new kingdom, they did develop
iron, that access to iron, they could use steels, you know, iron chisels and had a bit more capability.
They certainly developed that capability. They, they wrote hieroglyphics were amazing.
I don't want to diss the ancient Egyptians. I think a lot of the artwork and they did a
lot of work on these, on the temples and stuff they did, they were incredible civilization.
But there are just a few things that are outside of their technological reach. And,
and you know, those, those are things like the, the precision that's evident in the
Serapium boxes, these giant, you know, hundred ton single piece granite boxes that we find
located underground. That's a good example of, of some of these artifacts that really
aren't explainable by any primitive means. So let me pause you for a second. When they first
started studying ancient Egypt and trying to piece this timeline together, like it,
well, was it just, was the problem just that there was no communication between different
disciplines? Like was there, was it just compartmentalization of geologists and historians
and, and Egyptologists, whoever, whoever was all involved, it's almost like they weren't really
communicating. Like how did they make this mistake so early on? You know, it's, that's a,
an excellent question because that's a stiller situation that exists, unfortunately. Like,
so one of the major problems with the discipline of archaeology and history is that
if it's old, if it's something that's ancient, if it's in that realm of archaeology, then it
doesn't matter what that, what it is, the archaeologist claims domain on it. Like he claims
eminent domain and authority over it, which is crazy because yeah, exactly. We should be listening
to the geologists. We should be listening to the engineers, you know, in particular the engineers.
We should be listening to the, the, you know, the geneticists and the other scientists that,
or there's so many things that have happened in these adjacent fields of science that should
be affecting that story of history, but it just doesn't happen. So when it first emerged, you
know, Egyptology, when it first came out, we were very focused on the first thing to the real
majors leap forward was the, was the decipherment of hieroglyphics. So there was a whole study that,
and this is 100 odd years ago now, 150-ish, the decipherment of hieroglyphics really helped. So,
and that's, and that's primarily how we date and relate pretty much most of Egyptian history. It's,
it's through interpretation of the writing. And that's the, that is the core study in a lot of
cases of Egyptology and archaeology. Like they're, they're there to sort of decipher how these people
live, what their society was like, what their daily life was like, their structure, their kings. And I
think we have a really good grip on Dynastic Egypt itself, like in terms of what that was like.
But at the same time, like if you, you know, when you're looking at ancient objects and you're
looking at ancient engineering, the expertise should really be in the hands of the engineers.
And that's, that's where they, the parts really diverge, if you like, it's like historians, it's,
you know, it's a, it's a joke, but it's like, you know, you archaeologists claim,
claim authority over ancient objects, but you wouldn't ask one of them to engineer the chair
that he's sitting on. You don't want an engineer to do that. And it's the same thing with geology. I
mean, one of the more famous examples of this is Robert Shock. Dr. Robert Shock is a professor
of geology at Boston University, who, who famously redated the, the erosion on these
Sphinx enclosure around the Great Sphinx at Giza to somewhere in the, in the, in the, in the region
of, you know, prior to 10,000 BC, which is well and truly outside of the, the dating of the Dynastic
Egyptian civilization. And he did this by looking at the erosion patterns that are on the walls of
the enclosure. Walls of the Sphinx. Yeah. Yeah. On the, in the enclosure and said, well, that's
rainfall erosion that can only have happened in a period where we know that there was, you know,
this was a verdant area that gets a lot of rain. Is that because there was like vertical? It's
vertical fissures. Yeah. Vertical fissures. Yeah. Yeah. And it's not so the Egyptologists say, well,
it's wind and sand erosion, but you know, if you take that picture of that wall of erosion,
and you take it without context and shout to any geologists, he's going to tell you it's
rainfall erosion. And so, you know, Robert Shock's been pretty firm on this. And he thought he had
discovered something significant. He went to an Egyptology conference and tried to present this
evidence and basically got laughed out of the room by the old boy network. They're like, ah,
you're full of crap. Like this is nonsense. You know, they just didn't look at the evidence.
They just dismiss it out of hand, which is the common technique that's gets used. And
it's really strange, but, but that's, there's an entrenched dogma in archaeology today.
And that's why I talk about with this idea of civilization has not shifted. And so,
idea of history is, is, has become a very much an entrenched academic dogma that is,
that is tightly controlled by those in the, in the ivory towers and the people that are in,
you know, basically the textbook writers that control the, the authority of this,
and they hand out the degrees and they have, they have the access to the sites to do things.
You know, there's, there's a hilarious example of this is, and this is, has a,
it's another discovery in the field of archaeology that should be affecting history, which was
the discovery of a, of a place in Turkey called Gobekli Tepe. Have you
heard of Gobekli Tepe? Yeah. Gobekli Tepe. So incredible site, Clash Schmidt German
Archaeological Institute uncover this in the 90s. They excavate, they keep working on the site.
Unfortunately, Clash Schmidt has passed away. They discover that this site was deliberately
buried and they've, they've used organic remains that they found underneath this burial to date
the site to at least 10,000 BC. So right bang on in that same realm of time that, that Robert's
shock don't develop like, like dated the Sphinx. So 10,000 BC would be how many years ago? 12,000
years ago. 12,000 years ago. Okay. At least, and that's, and that's the youngest date. Like that,
it could be far older than that. That's when they think it was buried. Like it was deliberately
because they tested some sort of organic material there and that's when it did, but
that could have been a newer, there could have been a newer date. It doesn't, and again, you
can't date the stone. All the, the nice thing about that site is because it was buried and they
know it was deliberately buried by the nature of the, the chips and how it was buried. It wasn't
like a natural material that it was buried. It was deliberately buried and like put into hiatus
for whatever reason. And, and they, and beneath that they found these organic remains. So it's
like, okay, we know that what was beneath this burial layer was at least as old as these carbon
remains. It could be far older. And in fact, there's been recent discoveries of other signs of
civilization in, in Turkey that, that are four or 5,000 years older than that still.
These are, there's a lot of finds being made in Turkey. Now it's Karan, Tepe, Tepe, there's
cemeteries. There's a lot of discovery being made in Turkey. But what's interesting about this is
Gobekli Tepe is a massive megalithic site. Like it's large. It's a whole bunch of these different
stone circles with, with large pillars that have been carved, some of them weighing up to 20,
25 tons. Really? Yeah, they're huge. And, and, and, you know, they're all
got anthropomorphic shapes carved into them in high relief. So they're not like carved into the
stone. They come out of the stones and the rest of the stones been carved. And it's clearly
requires civilization, right? To, to, for, for human beings to create monuments and sites to
that extent, it's a massive site. It's mostly still buried. We've only excavated a tiny portion of it.
But they can see what's there through grand penetrating radar and other techniques.
But what's obvious to anyone who sees it or reads about it is that it requires a form of
civilization, right? You need a population base. You need to have people specializing
in different disciplines like stonework and, and quarrying and getting these things together.
You need to have a developed ceremonial and cultural ethic that sort of guides you while
we're making stone circles. We're doing this, we're doing that. Martin Sweatman actually thinks
they would, it's a, it's a dating system that relates to the great year in procession of the
equinoxes. That's a whole other topic that might, might be a lot more involved in Gobekli Tepe yet.
It would require a developed language too, right? It must, yes. You have to communicate. But the
point is you need civilization for this. And so this, this gets back to the dogma of,
of archeology and, and, and, and history itself. So this is an incontrovertible, I think, to me,
evidence of civilization. So we are, this is now civilization is developed agriculture,
you need all of this support systems in order to make this happen. So can we move the established
date of civilization now back from 6,000 years ago to 12,000 years ago? Well, no, what happened was
is, is that the, the, the people that, and this is, this gets reflected on Wikipedia quite a bit.
If anyone is interested in looking at it, I always like to look at the edits page,
like who's been making edits on Wikipedia pages, because you'll find a lot of academics.
There's a lot of fuckery on Wikipedia. They just changed the definition of a recession
like a couple of weeks ago. Yep. Recession got changed. Yeah. So vaccine that might have changed.
Yeah. But it's, so one thing that has been, that was changed on the back of this Gobekli Tepe
discussion was, was now the definition of hunter-gatherers. So instead of saying, well,
this is civilization. Now they've just changed and said, well, no, no, just hunter, this was
done by hunter-gatherers who just like to do some stonework on the weekends, you know, get away
from the wife and the kids and, and just make a hobby out of making stone circles. It's then is
literally on, on the page for, for Gobekli Tepe on Wikipedia. And this is, so instead of moving
that entrenched date of civilization back, they're just like, no, this was done by hunter-gatherers.
They were just bored and they had all this time on the hand. So they developed an advanced form
of stoneworking and large communities to do it. It's so silly. It's-
What would be the problem to dating the, the, the beginning of advanced civilization back
that far? Would it uproot lots of other ideas and consa and, and historical dogma?
You know, it's, it's, it's the historic, to me, it's the historical dogma. The challenge, the
problem is, is that unfortunately, like archaeology, it's, and Egyptology and all these things,
it's, they're not like hard sciences, you know, they're not like physics, chemistry, where you
have, you know, hypothesis experiment result, and we can move forward with that sort of thing.
It's a much more of a, a social science or a cultural study. So it, in history, particularly
when you go back that deep into history. It's not necessarily objective. Right. You're, you're,
you're piecing together a picture that's based on very scant evidence. So evidence that's been
through cataclysms and flooding and thousands of years of, of quarrying and destruction and,
and thousands of years of subsequent, you know, civilizations building on these same sites,
trying to put that picture together is a really complex and difficult thing.
And there's multiple ways to interpret that evidence. But what happens, I think is, and this
is my opinion, I've talked about it a few times, but I think that the entrenched academics, the
people that are the, if you call it dogma and you call archaeology a religion, these are the priests
of that religion. It works in the same way, I think, to a lot of, of religion. It's like you
have a story. You are very attached to that story. Your position of power is attached to that story.
So, you know, and it's like you are the authority on that story. This is the, the academics and the,
and the archaeologists and stuff that are in, in these institutions that have access to the sites
that write the textbooks. So when you come along and there's new evidence that threatens the veracity
of that story that you've been championing for so long, it's not just like, oh, maybe we'll learn
something new here becomes kind of a personal threat. You know, you're threatening people's
sense of self-worth, their livelihood. So you get a much stronger reaction to it. There's another,
and that's what we see. And I think there's another factor involved in this. And that's the,
the nature of the discourse has changed. So in Victorian times, and I often focus on scholars
that come from those eras, guys like Flinders Petrie, and, and, you know, there's, there's a
whole number of them that I look at in my videos, but these guys that were in those, you know, the
1800s, early 1900s, that are much more open-minded when you read their works, like they understand
when they're seeing mystery and they don't know what's going on. And I think in a lot of ways,
they could do that because they were safe in their discussions because they only happened in the
academic halls, you know, that was their peers. That's where the discussion happened. You know,
it wasn't this open slather thing. And so what's happened with the development of the internet
and the rise of, of popular authors and things is that discussion has moved out of the academic
realm and into the public sphere, in some extent. So you've got guys like Graham Hancock, Bo Val,
and, and the generation before them that started writing books on this topic, really challenging
the mainstream story of history. And then with the internet, you know, you've got punters like
me who can come out and, and in some, I think, make a convincing argument in a few different ways
about it. And so your, you know, your, your, your academic kind of mainstream orthodoxy are
entrenched and they're being assaulted, I think, from all these new angles. So you end up with,
instead of a lot of debates, you get a lot more of these angry responses. I think you get a lot
more firm pushback, like it's just like, they just deny it, ignore it, change it. And it's, there's,
there's a lack of real debate in this space. And there's been famously a few
occurrences where they've, we've tried to have debate and stuff, and it just hasn't, it hasn't
happened. So yeah, unfortunately, I think that's the nature of it. But on the flip side, I have
hoped that the next generation of academia will be a bit more open minded, because I think, and I've
been contact, I can't tell you how many, you know, archaeology students and Egyptology students have
contacted being on like my works open, open my mind or they've read Graham Hancock and they say,
you're onto something. So I think that's the thing, man. That's what I was telling you about last
night. I'm like, what does like, even if, if mainstream academia or scholars, the people that
write the textbooks don't, don't want to take you seriously, like at what point through technological
advancement and with finding information online through YouTube videos and stuff like that,
what point do you just leave them in the dust? And they're not even relevant anymore, because
there's people like you and Graham and Randall and Jimmy that anyone who's interested in this stuff,
that's where they're going to go to, to find out information about it to you guys. They're not
going to go read through the textbooks because they already know it's in the textbooks.
Right. Well, yeah. And so I have some hope that maybe that it's, it's, is it Planck's
theorem or something? It's, I can't remember the name of it, but it's like science advances one
funeral at a time. It's not just history that this applies to it. It applies to a lot of disciplines,
unfortunately. It's the nature of establishment too, to resist change just for what it's worth.
I mean, that's the nature, the very nature of it. That's the thing. That's the thing about the
internet is, is the best information rises to the top or the best content rises to the top.
Right. You know, like before with the way academia would work is right. People would be
commissioned to write these textbooks and they're the people within the universities,
they're in their own kind of little bubble and, you know, their, their salaries are on the line
and there's different leverage here and there in the whole bureaucracy of the universities,
but now it's splintered off into these unregulated factions of the internet with people like you.
And when you have a hour long video that focuses on core drilling that has two million views,
that says something about what you're talking about and how legitimate it is.
Yeah, thank you. I agree. That's what's happening. And I think that the new generation of academia,
these people that are in school now are forced to deal with some of those perspectives. Like,
you can't just ignore them, which is the case for the old guard. They can just sort of dismiss it
and say, oh, he's just writing a book for profit or whatever, which has been a common line that
guys like Zahi Hoas will try it out. But the next generation, I think, are being forced to deal with
some of these questions and perspectives and to open their mind to them. But I will say that it's
one of the challenges with this is that the, and it's a frustration for me personally, is that the
access to sites and research in particular on these sites is all controlled by academia. So that's,
so you have, you know, the, let's take Egypt as an example, you have the Department of the
Antiquities, previously called the Supreme, what is it? The Supreme Council of Antiquities. But
the Antiquities Department in Egypt, they partner with universities. And you saw the British run
Giza, and you've got the French running Sakara. And, you know, there's so it's all these institutions
that then are allowed to go to access and to do actual research on the sites. And you're still
in a, we've still in a position in academia today, if you propose something, or you step too far out
of the bounds of that standard model, then you're, you know, you're excommunicated. And this has
happened to a number of people still in these days. It happened, I talked about an example of it at
Tiwanaku in Bolivia that happened to a Bolivian researcher who dared to suggest that the, you
know, the celestial dating of that site was puts it, you know, at that like 9000 BC or so. And he
was, he had to resign from his post. Now, these things still happen. So there's still a control
of it. But so what's frustrating is that there are so many things we could be doing
with our technology today to explore a few of these things and doing them without damaging
anything, scanning, you know, exploring various passages as a passage and Serapium that we don't
know where it goes, that we could be exploring these issues and trying to answer some of these
questions. But we don't do it because we just assume that those problems are solved. Like it's
like nobody in that, in that standard model world is going to admit that there's some advanced
engineering going on in some of the artifacts. They're just like, nope, it was hard work. And it
was, this is Zahi Wasa's standard answer. It was a national project. They built the pyramids and they
built all this stuff because they really wanted to, and there was a lot of people working really
hard for a long time. And it's like, that's, that's, that's wonderful. But that doesn't explain the
technological issues that we see. And, you know, there's some glaring examples that, that we can,
we can talk about. And I mean, one of my favorites is the, the stone vases, but we can, we can get
there. Yeah. So there was three main obvious examples of high technology in Egypt that does
not line up with the tools that the civilization, the earliest official civilization of Egypt had.
What were, what were those three examples of high technology that they had?
The ones that I use in particular are the, I think when it comes to the engineering aspect is
the evidence for machining. So this is, this is, this is the, the cutting and polishing of stone
and a very, very hard types of stone in particular. You're talking about things like granite and
basalt and diorite, which are, if anyone's familiar with the Mohs scale of hardness can be
anywhere from like six to eight on the, on the Mohs scale of hardness. This is the, the Mohs
MoHS Mohs scale of hardness. So it's basically like, you know, you take a harder material
and if it scratches the surface material, another material, it's harder than that. So
it starts at, you know, your fingernails, like a two or the two or a three and then diamond is
the top of the scale at a 10. Okay. Yeah. So you get to 10 and that's, that's the top scale. So,
you know, steel iron is like a five and a half six steel is like a, like a six
things like that. So you're talking about stone that's harder than steel.
Okay. Wow. Granite, basalts a little bit harder. There's even examples in that we get to it with
the vases, but there's, there's examples of stuff made from corundum, which is a nine. Like it's
literally just about as hard as diamond, but there's vases made from this, that, that display all
these, these evidence of machining. So, so it's not just the fact that these stones were used,
but the, there is evidence in the stonework of, of frankly power tools. Something's been used to,
to carve these stones at a very rapid rate. Yeah. So it's some examples. This is, this is
different. He's talking about some of the bigger stones with like the flat surfaces, right? There's
a good, there's a good saw cut. Yeah. There's a good one with an angle on a saw cut you can find,
but that's not a bad example either. That's still a, that's part of the machining discussion.
And that's a bigger too. That's, that's an even bigger tube drill. Michael,
look for one of the pictures of the rocks that looks like it was cut by a big circular saw.
Yeah. Go to a, yeah. It's in tooling. When you showed some of these, like you were pouring water
over the top of these things that were cut flat. Yeah. So you can see the striation. So one of the,
so when it comes to machining, you're talking about different types of cutting techniques. There's,
there's tube, like circular saws, tube drills. There's also straight saws. And, and,
and after that you have machining and like polishing. So there's, there's a,
there's, it's not a natural. This isn't it, Michael? That's one of them. That's, that's,
that's, that's, so that's a cut that's into a block of basalt at, at Giza. Keep going.
Looks like it was cut down the center. Yes, it was. Yeah. There's a, there's a number of
examples of, of that on there in that directory. No, Michael. Yeah. So there's an example of,
of circular saw cut being dipped into basalt, which is harder than granite, by the way. More,
more. So could a normal, like concrete saw, like a demo saw cut through this rock?
Yeah. It could because, well, tile saws and things like that, that are diamond,
they're diamond tip blades. So that's the closest analogy we have to the evidence that's in the
stonework. So that's the thing. There's, then there's been a bunch of, I dive into a lot of the
experiments and the research that's been done in these, the history of, of investigation into
these different types of cutting. So tube drills, circular saws, cutting stones, the grinding
method, the pounding stones. Yeah. This has been an ongoing discussion for 150 years. It's been
people that have been looking at this and scratching their head for like 150 years and going,
this kind of been done with these primitive tools that we've found in the archaeological record,
versus the, you know, the, the establishment saying, well, these are the tools that we found.
So therefore these must have been the tools that we used. And it's just like,
you can't use those tools to show us the same result. Something else was done. And,
and, you know, we, we know what tools are domestic Egyptians. There you go. That's
one of the great examples. Yeah. So this is a really, one of my favorite examples,
actually. So this is a block of stone that's at place called Abusir. Can you full screen this?
But yeah. So there's a block of stone at, at Abusir. That's, that is,
Oh, there you go. You just passed it. It's nearly cut all the way through.
Keep going. There you go. That's a different one, but that's, that's, that's a good example too.
That's, that's actually a place called Abirah Wash. So you see the arc, right? There's,
there's a clear circular arc to this stone. It's a, it's either a drops,
it's like what you would call a swing saw or a circular saw that has, that has cut this stone.
And the, the one that we saw earlier that's at Abusir actually has a little lip at the end of
it. So it's, it's like it's, hasn't quite cut all the way through the stone, but there's a little,
like over lip that's still there from thousands of years of weathering. And through that little
lip, we can tell that the blade of this thing was very thin, couple millimeters at best. And when
you measure out the arc of it, you're talking like 30 feet diameter, like some huge processing plant
cutting this. And then you also see striations on the, on the stone itself that shows you how
that saw progressed through the stone, which was quite rapidly. Now, this is amazing evidence
because you can now sort of determine the, the rate at which the saw progressed through the
stone, which is turns out to be quite, quite rapid. And you can compare that to the experiments that
have been done in the orthodox model, which says that, well, what they did was they got a big copper
bar and they groin and they just ground sand with water on it. And there's been back and forth for
days and days, days and days. And there's been a bunch of experiments that look at how long that
takes. And these are like a couple of the guys like Dennis stocks that are on the mainstream
side that have done a little bit of work on this. And it's just the numbers are insane. And you also,
you don't get the same marks using that technique. And one of the major problems with it is, is that
you wear away the copper bar at about the same rate that you're wearing away the stone. So,
and when you start to extrapolate that, so for example, I think I calculated that there's a box,
there's a box that's in the second pyramid. It gives it that cuff raise pyramid. It's a granite
box. It's like 10 feet long and, you know, four or five feet wide. And I am using the experiments
and the rates that we've done to do the grinding method, just to make the six cuts that you'd
need. So north, south, east, west, top and bottom, six cuts, you're talking a year of labor
to cut that one box to make those cuts using copper bars a year of just grinding. And that
doesn't include how they hollowed it out and everything else, just the base cuts. And when
you extrapolate that to the tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of granite blocks,
of basalt blocks, of blocks from other types of stone that have all had to be quarried out first
from the quarry, which takes just as long, if not longer with these primitive methods,
shipped to the site and then cut down to basically their dimensions. Then you've probably got years
of work just with primitive methods, years of work on top of that, just finishing it and hollowing
it out and doing all the other stuff. It just takes it from the realm of the improbable into
the impossible. They had to have been working with this stone at a faster rate in the old kingdom.
And you have big blocks like in the Great Pyramid that weigh up to 70, 80 tons, a single piece.
That big slab that we were just looking at a minute ago with the kind of like curvature
to where the smooth part of it had a big, where the smooth part met the rough part,
it was like large curve. Are there any circular saws that big today that could cut that?
Yeah. So there are circular saws, not generally that big. And again, it could have been a swing
saw. So it could have been a curved blade that was swinging back and forth. So we do do it.
So if you look at modern stone processing videos, which I show a few of in my videos,
that is how we do it. We use large circular saws, large swing saws or large like wire saws that
are reciprocating, go back and forth. And it's just full of like water and it's noisy and it's
dusty and takes forever. Because cutting this type of stone for your kitchen counter or whatever
is very, very difficult. So this is machining. You ask me what the three things were that I
think are evidence of ancient high technology. One of them is machining. So that's the evidence
for cutting, polishing and all of that. The polishing is interesting too because and this
gets into some of the other discussions around the writing and the differences between the writing
and not. But polishing a flat surface are the way the mainstream talks about how they polished it.
Well, you'd get sand and rock and water and you just grind away. You just sit there and polish it
away. You'd slowly get to this point where in some of this granite still reflects lights like a
mirror. It's insane. The finish on some of it is incredible, not a natural property of granite.
You have to work at it really hard to get there. And then in other areas, though, we see evidence
for this type of same polishing in non-flat surfaces. So in really bumpy flat side surfaces,
like the features of statues, the fingernails and this and that. So we see that polish that are on
non-flat surfaces and that blows this theory of stone and sand and water like out of the
just it blows it away. You can't polish surfaces like that with that method. But we see the same.
We see that polish on these dips and curves and all these other really strange surfaces
all over the place. So the other category really is precision. So this is one that I focus a lot on
as well as machining. But there's evidence for a tremendous degree of precision in a lot of these,
particularly these ancient artifacts. And we see it in obelisks. We see it in boxes, slabs and
statues and some of the architecture. But in particular, you have some of the boxes are
like the best examples. It's easiest to understand because it's linear precision. It's like straightness,
flatness, sharp corners, 90 degree bends, things like that. And Flinders Petrie found a box
is a place called La Hune. It's a granite box that's in a granite room. It's all been manufactured
out of granite. And this box is perfectly square and straight and flat to within like one one
thousandth of an inch. So you're talking like it's like a hundred, like a tenth of the width of a
human hair within the limits of his tools. And this is he discovered one of those square tools
that he went in there and held it up against the corner and you couldn't even shine a light through
it. Precision tools. Yep. So Petrie, this is what Petrie found 150 years ago. And it's subsequently
been backed up by other people using modern precision tools. And there's many examples
of this type of thing. But the most precise object that we know of, I think in at least in these
linear terms in Egypt is this box in La Hune. It's not a huge box. It weighs about 15 tons.
But we see the same thing in the boxes in places like the Serapium, which is probably my favorite
site because it's, I did a lot of videos early on on the YouTube channel. I need to go back to the
Serapium and do some more work on it. Where is the Serapium? So that's Sakura. So Sakura is
okay. So just a step pyramid. Yep. That's right. Step pyramid of Joe's are well known for that.
It's part of the, I call it the Sun Belt. It's like the pyramid sites. It's like Giza,
Sakara, Dashor, Abyssir, Abu Ghraab, even my doom down towards the south. So there's all these
pyramids on the west side of the Nile. Yeah, I just watched the documentary on Netflix about
the step pyramid last night. Like the cats and stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're porn cats out
of the tombs. That's right. Well, Sakara is a giant necropolis. So most of these places,
you've got to remember too, even if you, I think their origins may stretch back much further into
time, you know, than the Dynastic Egyptians, but they were definitely used and built on by
the Dynastic Egyptians. So they used them for burial sites. And Sakara in particular,
like they're still digging stuff, like bodies up out of the ground there. I've seen,
I've been exploring in the catacombs there and you just bones and rooms full of human
remains and like just femurs up to your hip in one room. And that's crazy. Yeah. Human skulls and
another. And I mean, this is not touristy areas, but there's literally miles of tunnels beneath
Sakara. So it's like a giant underground necropolis as well as having stuff on top pyramids.
Is that the, is that the step pyramid in Sakara where like you go into the middle of it and you
look down and it's this giant pit with a massive granite box at the bottom of it?
Yeah, it's one of my, in fact, they just opened this up for tourism. Actually,
really good thing is that the Egyptian authorities are opening up more things.
They seem to be understanding that like people are interested in the mystery and they want to see
stuff. So thankfully they did a good job renovating it and opened it up for tourism. But yeah,
so that you have this step pyramid structure, allegedly the proto pyramid, I think was actually
built by the domestic Egyptians, but it's built over a massive pit in the ground. That's like,
it's probably a hundred feet deep, about 45 or so feet wide square. And you look down onto this thing
and it's, there's at the bottom, there's a massive multi-piece granite box that's made up of like
32 pieces of granite weighing anywhere up to about five or six tons each. And I've been down there
and there, there, there is multiple levels that go down beneath that as well. So from there,
that's where you're an entrance to like a whole cavern system starts. There's something like
four or five miles of tunnels beneath this thing. And I've been down four or five levels beneath
that box. So I did this last year, we had special permission to go down there. And it was mind blowing
because that place and the step pyramids are attributed to Phara Joseph. I think it's the
first pyramid of the fourth dynasty, which is a famous fourth dynasty. That place is where they
found more than 40,000 of these exquisite stone vases, right? So that's in these tunnels. Jean
Pierre Loire found them, a French archaeologist, he found the remnants. And this is where they
discovered like 40,000 of these, of these, of these incredible stone vases, more than 40,000.
And in fact, when you go down there, there are still written as chunks of these things and
remnants of them all over the place. Like it's not your average tourist thing, you need special
permission to get down there. But there's some incredible artifacts down there. We also found
alabaster boxes, like big single piece alabaster boxes on a level where they were still excavating.
I have a whole video that gets into the details of it. But yeah, it's a tremendously interesting
site. Now, I think there's an explanation, like a timeline for this. Again, inheritance works out.
It's one of the theories that I have is that I think that box and that pit were likely there and
that the Egyptians constructed that step pyramid over the top of it. Imhotep designed it. And I
think that was then claimed and used as a burial site for Joza, the Pharaoh. What is this box right
here? This box? Yeah. This is one of my favorite boxes at the Serapium. So the Serapium is at
Sakara. It's a series of underground galleries, beautiful gallery like these tunnels you could
drive a Volkswagen down the huge and straight when some of them go generally 200 meters. And
inside the Serapium, you have 25 of these things, which are these single piece,
like 100 ton granite boxes. They're insane. It's absolutely insane. And this one in particular
is in an off limits area that we went into that's rarely seen by tourists. It may be the biggest one
there. It's made out of like a black granite or might even be granite diorite. It's not, we don't
know exactly where the quarry for this thing was. That's its lid sitting on top. And it actually
isn't finished. It developed a crack at the end and it was for some reason just shelved there.
They decided, well, we'll just tuck this thing away in a corner in this underground structure
and leave it there because it was never quite finished. That thing weighs 100 tons? With the
lid. Yeah. So the box itself might be about 70 and the lid's probably 30. And the lid's been pushed
back. And it's insane. And there's 25 of them. And here's the thing, we've never made anything
like this in our civilization. We don't, not saying we couldn't, but an interesting experiment,
Chris Dunn went to like a granite processing company and said, hey, what would it cost? How
could you make us one of these boxes? And they're like, well, you know, for starters,
the lump of granite is going to be a ton amount of money. And then it's like, we just wouldn't,
we couldn't, we couldn't make the box without developing specific tools to do it because
the way they'd make it is they'd cut like five slabs and then bolt them together, you know,
like a floor and then four walls and they bolt it together into a box. These are single pieces.
So what's, what's impressive about that is it's like, you have to quarry this one block of stone
and then dig it out. You have to dig all of the inside out. And, and some of the examples of
precision in the Serapium are absolutely remarkable. You have perfect 90 degree
corners in some of the boxes, perfect 90 degree interfaces with the lids and some of these walls
maintain that geometry from like being 11 feet apart. Like that's insane. Like that's one of the
major challenges of this is, is in designing and, and maintaining that type of relative geometry in
a space where you can't afford to make any mistakes. So as you cut down, if you cut something wrong,
like you're done, you can't change that hole inside shape, but they've managed to
keep these incredibly precise and you get right down to these little
tri-linear corners in the, in the bottom corners and then the walls on it are all,
are all polished like mirrors. And there's 25 of them. Now they're not all finished.
So what's even more remarkable about the Serapium is it seems like a lot of this work was being
done in situ, like the boxes were being worked on in situ. What do you mean in situ? In situation.
So they were, they were, there's evidence of multiple steps of work. So that big black box
we looked at, yeah, this is, this is for example, is a collection of the boxes.
The lighting's not the best in the Serapium. You kind of have to see it to, to understand it.
But yeah, these, these are trim and they're, they're all housed in offset alcoves from these
tunnels. They sit down about six or seven feet, like the alcoves are sitting down about six or
seven feet. So it's like a kind of like a horse stable, right? They're all in their own little
stables. Yep. Yep. And they're all offset. This was a strange thing. There's no two alcoves that,
that line up and look at each other. So you got multiple challenges when it comes to the Serapium.
One of them is first and foremost, the logistics of moving that stuff in there. Like the roof hasn't
been constructed, right? So it's not like if you were doing this from a functional perspective,
or the easiest way to do it would be that you dig the hole in the ground, you'd put,
you'd lower the boxes down in there and then you'd build the roof and everything out on top of it.
That's not what's going on in the Serapium. These are tunnels that are dug into the bedrock. So
the boxes had to be moved in through the front door, maneuvered through all these tunnel systems,
and then placed and lowered down into these alcoves. And again, you're looking at
blocks of stone that are up to 100 tons, maybe more if they haven't fully been hollowed out and
finished. And one of the crazy thing is, is the biggest, the biggest boxes in here, you're talking
about a foot of clearance difference in the width of the box to the width of the tunnels. So
you have one foot, it's like, I always, I'd like to use that, that's, that the Friends episode
where they're trying to move a couch up a staircase, like Pevhart. Pevhart, imagine trying to move 100
ton object in that tight space into a, into an alcove like that. And again, we don't know how
they lit it. We don't know how it's, it's pitch, I've been down there where they turned the lights
on, it's perch black. You just go inside a little way and it's, you can't like, you can't let a
flame in there. Well, there's no evidence for that. There's no, there's no, you, you, we see in a lot
of temples where they've, they've used fire and flame and you have that exhaust. You have the
soot marks everywhere. There's no evidence for that in, in the cerulean. Yep. We don't know
how they lit it. There's no evidence for, for heavy use of flame. And then we don't know how
they moved it because you, you, the calculation to move a 50, you need at least 150 people to move,
say a 50 ton box. That means, look at that fucking thing. Yeah. That's insane. So if you, if you
assume one person can pull 200 kilograms, which is 440 pounds, then you need 150 people to pull
a 50 ton load. So you're trying to cram 150 people into these tunnels. It's just impossible. It's
impossible. So, you know, in this, then the Egyptians weren't known to use police or levers or
cap stands or any of that stuff. I think those things were used later on to, to push the lids off.
I think there was the Romans and other people that came in there and found these sealed boxes were
probably like, what's in them? What's in them? And so all of them, except for one, had their lids
pushed off when Auguste Marriott founded, I think it was like 1850 something. What did they put
it on? We don't know. So, well, there's an explanation for it in the mainstream world,
is that they were at the, there were sarcophaguses for Appus bulls. So there was a, a sacred bull
called the Appus bull. And they say that these were, these were, these were boxes for Appus bulls.
They would, they would mummify these bulls and put them in there. Now, all of the boxes were
found empty when Auguste Marriott rediscovered the site and like 1850 something thereabouts,
except for one box that had its lid still intact. He couldn't move the lid. So he blew it up. He
blew it open with dynamite, which was unfortunately a technique that was probably used a little too
often in the early days, until guys like Flinders Petrie came along and sort of tuttered them away
from doing that. And he found it was completely empty. There's nothing in it. So we've never
found a bull. So there's a, there's another set of tunnels nearby called the lesser galleries.
And in those gallery, they're like really primitive tunnels compared to the Serapium.
And in those galleries, they found wooden boxes, wooden boxes with Appus bulls mummified in them.
Oh, really? So because they found a wooden box in a nearby set of galleries that isn't connected to
the Serapium, they therefore spread that excuse across all of this and go, no, you know what,
it's all ceremonial. It's all Appus bulls, which is, it becomes a bit of a meme after a time,
because every single thing is ceremonial or, you know, some sort of representational. There's
nothing functional. I mean, the mainstream story of history, it's all everything ceremonial,
like everything. And I think there's, I think it's nonsense. I think there is a functional purpose
for some of these sites. Now, I don't know what that is. And maybe our technology hasn't gotten
there yet, because, you know, this comes back to my kind of my perspective on technology.
The giant fucking pyramid. How would you do that? Just because for a fucking ceremony
to bury dead people? It seems bizarre to think that.
Well, it's, you could more, you could maybe explain it with ego. Like you might have a
king that's that egocentric to do it. But, but there's, there is something, I'm convinced there's
something going on with underground boxes. Now it's either boxes in precision boxes in pyramids
or in, you know, in, in underground, in the Serapium, we see them at ABC. They're all over the
place. We see these, there's a real trend of these giant single piece sort of precision carved
granite boxes or very hard stone boxes in underground locations or in places like pyramids. Now,
there's, there's a, there's a lot more that suggests some form of functionality was on
these sites as well. One of the things that I was fascinated by that I see and you see it at
Giza, it's at the pyramids. It's at, it's at Sakara. It's at, it was at Dashor is that there's,
there's signs of infrastructure that there's literally a channeled block infrastructure
beneath the floor tiling. So we know this because the floors are all the sites have been destroyed
and we see it. So you have these U shaped blocks of sometimes like white calcite or even granite,
like these sort of expensive and hard to obtain material with these channels in them
that run underneath the floor tile. So you're talking like a two or three foot thick floor
tile of basalt or whatever it is. Yeah. Beneath that layer, there's a whole infrastructure of
like piping basically that runs beneath these sites and, and you see why joins, you can trace it at
ABC in particular, like this stuff goes everywhere. But we also see it at Giza at Dashor at Sakara.
So there were, there was something going on with that, like that was a functional thing.
It wasn't, it wasn't on display. There wasn't a ceremonial purpose for it. It's an expensive
type of stone. They must have had a reason for using it and it's running underneath these sites
and it's like nobody's really willing to explore that idea that was there, was this a processing
site of some sort? Was there some function going on? Because from a technological perspective,
like we, we are very guilty as a civilization of looking at everything through our lens,
like we look at the past and we look at it through our lens and understanding of the world,
through our technological perspective. Like we, we have a particular approach to problem solving,
like an electromechanical approach to problem solving, and we kind of apply that to everything
else. Now, there's all many domains of science that we're just starting to explore harmonics,
resonance, organic materials, like all of these things, you know, we will know more about in 100
years, let alone a thousand years. So there's, you can, you can, from that, we can say there's
definitely things we don't know. So I think it's possible that the functional purpose of these
sites and, and if there was one, that purpose and that, and that method that they employed to, to
achieve that purpose may still be outside of our technological realm of understanding. Like it might
have been, had something to do with resonance or something else, like a domain of science that
we're beginning to explore and that we'll learn more about now. And I think that if we were more
open-minded about investigating these places, we could learn more. We might actually learn
something about it, but because there's a lack of willingness to really even explore those topics,
and because we just determined everything's ceremonial and everything was made with copper
chisels and pounding stones, and it was all done by the dynastic Egyptians, we just don't ever go
down those paths. Is this the idea of the Giza power plant? This is one of them. Yeah, exactly.
What is that? What is the Giza power plant concept? It's an interesting, but championed
by Chris Dunn, by the way, a friend of mine, an author guy, I respect greatly. I interviewed him
on my channel. He, he wrote a book that he's well known for called the Giza power plant that
suggests that the pyramid was essentially a device for producing energy. And he,
he explains every facet. What's interesting about his theory, I still, to me personally, it's,
that still sits within like, well, we're trying to use our perspective to kind of explain it.
But what's interesting about it is that he does explain every aspect and element of the pyramid
in that. And using his theory, he successfully predicted what was behind Gatenbrink's door,
which is like a whole other, there's a couple of these shafts that run out of the chambers in
the queen's chamber, in particular, is the one they're talking about. There's these shafts that
run out. They're very small, like a, like 10, 12 inches, sort of wise. Is this like when you,
when you look at like the anatomy of the pyramid? Yeah, you see these little shafts.
Can you Google the anatomy of the great pyramid and we can have a visual for this?
But yeah, so there's the tombs in there. Well, so, well, there's the king's chamber,
the chamber. So-called, I call them so-called king's chamber. There's an upper chamber,
a lower chamber, and then the subterranean chamber. Right. So also called the king's chamber,
the queen's chamber and subterranean chamber. Now, there is shafts that lead out from the king's
chamber that eventually reach the outside of the pyramid. The queen's chamber ones terminate
somewhere inside the pyramid. And when they finally, finally sent some robots up there to
look at it, they found, well, there's a door here. Like this little shaft eventually terminates with
a little limestone door and what looks like copper handles in it. So they, they eventually saw,
we'll get another, get another robot, get a drill and we'll stick a camera in there and have a look.
And so Chris Dunn using his theory successfully said, well, under this theory, what you should
find after that door is a space and another door. And that's exactly what they found.
So yeah, there you go. That's, that's, this image here is, shows you the, the upper chamber,
the red there is the, what you would call the king's chamber with the, it has a series of chambers
above it that are all these essentially 70 ton granite blocks that are all stacked up
in the internal structure. And it has these shafts labeled as 10 on this diagram that reached the
outside. So the shaft, what's the shaft that put the camera down where you saw the door?
Like seven, I think is the seven, the queen's chamber shafts. Yeah. Yeah. So that's,
yes. I mean, by the way, the, you got to understand the ridiculousness of the
orthodox explanation for all of this is that, is that, so when they apparently when Kufu had this
built, he had the, he was going to be interred in the number seven there, what's called the queen's
chamber. And then he changed his mind and said, you know what, put it further up in the structure
and do that. And they just built it on the fly, which is, which is absolute nonsense. I'd like
to point out, like you do not, we've, the precision of this structure is rarely matched to today. And
in fact, it wasn't matched until the 1800s in terms of it, of how precisely the great pyramids aligned.
And there's about a million other aspects to the great pyramid that we could talk about.
Oh yeah. We don't like this. Fuck it. Let's make it a little bit taller.
Yeah. Yeah. Make it a bit taller. Like then that's the idea with,
it's absolute nonsense. And one of the, I have a couple of videos that look at this stuff too,
is that one of the things that's remarkable about it is the structure itself is interesting,
but the actual foundational work that went into the ground to prepare and build on top of is just
as interesting as like an engineering challenge and puzzle because they did, they must have spent
years and years preparing the site to basically take this, this object. And this is the case
both with this pyramid and in particular the middle pyramid because it's not on flat ground.
They had to prepare the ground. Like they, they, they literally, the whole thing's locked into,
into, into the ground with these foundational tiles of limestone that some of them weigh like
150, 200, 300 tons. And they're, it's dug down and that's, that's, they created a foundation
layer for the pyramids. And in particular on the middle pyramid, it's actually built into the
sliding, like a sloped hill on the, on the, I think it's the north's notes, the, the western side
of the, of the pyramid is, is like, it's cut down about 30 feet. So you can actually go around,
if you go around the western side of the middle pyramid, it's like this 30 foot wall
where they've cut down into the bedrock. And then they've leveled that out. And then they've
built up at the eastern side with these huge tiles. And then they've built this like millions of
tons structure on top of it. And some of the, the, and they've actually used the bedrock to lock it
in too. So instead of like taking all the bedrock out, they, they actually like on the, on the west
of the southwestern corner, the top five courses of that pyramid are actually bedrock. So it's not
tile, it's not like blocks. They shape the bedrock and then it just integrates slow with the slope
of the hill into the rest of the structure to wear all the way on that, on that eastern side,
they, they built it up with, with foundation tiles and locked it in. So that whole thing is just
locked into the bedrock. Like it's, it's, that's one of the reasons it's still standing and they
resist earthquakes so much is that they are so well designed. And there's been so much engineering
about how these things are locked into the bedrock that they have put up with all these earthquakes
and they're still standing versus so many of the other structures from ancient Egypt that were
done later that have all fallen down. So going back to what you were talking about with Chris Dunn,
when he, when they were sending the cameras up, down those, those pathways to go into those chambers,
he predicted what was going to be on the other side of that door, accurately. Yeah. Yeah. So what was
on this? It was a space and another door. Okay. Yeah. And so the little copper things that look
like door handles, they could have been electrodes. So that's, that's how they fit into his theory.
I'm not 100% up to date on, on, on that book, I haven't read it in a while.
But using his, what's interesting to me is that using his theory, he accurately predicted what
they would find. And that's what they found. So Chris is writing another book. He's writing
a follow-up to it. He's done, he's got some more data now. There's been more research done
on the Great Pyramid. In fact, there seems to be indication of a whole other series of chambers
in there that we haven't discovered yet. There was something called Muon Detection. There's a,
I forget the scan pyramids project was the name of it. So they, they, they've been doing this is
actually a great experiment. I wish, I hope they do more of it, but they've been doing this for years
where they put these cosmic ray detectors inside the structure. In fact, the last couple of times
have been down into the, both the Queens Chamber and the Subterranean Chamber, which are normally
off limits to tourists until you get a special permission. You can go in there. They have racks
of equipment and they've, they've been doing these Muon Detection experiments for a couple of years
now. So you're looking at cosmic ray particles and, and there's a slight difference when they go
through a material versus through a void. So by detecting this and analyzing and compiling this
data over years, they've kind of determined that there are a couple of large voids still inside
that structure that we haven't discovered yet, or, you know, no, not publicly discovered yet,
I'd say. So we'll see what happens. And, you know, of course, this, yeah, this, this cause,
just this announcement caused some, some angst with the Egyptologists who came out and said,
well, there is no such, I mean, I was, went between, well, there is no other, no other chambers.
And if there are other chambers, we already knew that were there. And there's this crazy response
to it. So I don't know. I hopefully it's hopefully whatever they discover there, they make it public.
But, you know, I wouldn't be surprised if there, there are things like that that have
already been discovered and then kept on the down low because they don't really match the,
the regular story. What if they just wanted to keep it secret so they could sell it to another
country for like some sort of like weaponary purposes? Or if they found out what it does,
or if it's like, we've turned this one back on. I don't know. Oh my God. Do you imagine?
Yeah, I'd like, yeah, I bring it on. Why not? Now, what is the story there? Now,
isn't a part of it underwater? How does water relevant to some of the chambers underneath?
And isn't water used somehow? Yeah. So, so this is an interesting dynamic that you see.
Both at Giza, at Sakara, you see it in Peru, that there seems to be a correlation to like
underground water. There's definitely water. So there is groundwater. So there's a, there's a,
there's a shaft at Giza. There's halfway down the causeway of the middle pyramids called the
Osiris shaft. And it runs like 120 feet or something down into the, into the bedrock of
the plateau. And there's three sets of three levels. And they have these chambers and there's
funnily enough boxes and things down there. But at the bottom level, like Giza only, you know,
a couple feet of clearance, because the rest of it is buried, it's in water. Like it's,
it's just, it's all the ground waters seeped in and it's risen up. So yeah, there's, there's
definitely water involved. And there's, there's certainly a lot of theories about the Great
Pyramid that suggests that it was hydrodynamic or it had some, water was part of its, the
mechanism that operated it or something. There's lots of different theories out there about it.
I'm not particularly well-versed in many of them. I think there's, there may be something to the
harmonics of having water that may have activated some of these structures in the past. I don't
know if that's a pure speculation, but, but there is a correlation between like underground rivers,
underground water sources that we see in, you know, in Peru, we see it in, in, in, in, in Egypt.
There always seems to be some source of water involved in these things. So yeah, I don't know.
Doesn't seem like they were made for humans to be in.
Yeah, that's for sure. It, you feel, honestly, when you go into the Great Pyramid,
it feels like a machine. Like you feel, it doesn't feel like a tomb.
No. And it's not a tomb. It's, there's, the idea that's a tomb is really silly. There's,
we know what old kingdom tombs look like, you know, we have lots of old kingdom tombs and the
decoration, the writing, and you know, there was a very consistent pattern to how they buried their
nobles and their kings. And we've got lots of examples and these things aren't tombs. There's
no hieroglyphs on the inside. We've never found bodies in them, etc. We've never found bodies
in them. No, not in, not in, not in the Great Pyramids. Okay. Yeah. I mean, there's, there's
certainly, we found bodies in boxes, but there's always, there's anomalies with them. It's like,
well, this was, it was a later burial. Like I think a lot of them may have been reused for
burial later. There's, every time you investigate into like the human remains that have been found
in places, it's always, there's always some anomaly involved in it. I mean, I mean, for example,
there was, there were bones, a hip bone of a woman found inside the pit at the Sikara,
the step pyramid that they dated to be far older than they said was supposedly the date for the
step pyramid. Like it's crazy. And then you get stuff that's way younger. It's like, what's clear
is that there's probably been people in there and it's been used and it's hard to really correlate
it, but certainly no bodies, no mummies been found in them. And it feels like a machine. Like it
feels industrial. It certainly doesn't feel like it was built for humans to go around. In fact,
it'd be almost impossible to maneuver around in those things without the addition of
the wooden steps and the handrails and the stuff that they put you in there. Cause you know,
the passages that you go in are like four foot square. If you're lucky, I think the bent pyramid
is like three and a half feet square. And you know, it's just, it's a excruciating kind of angle
that it runs for like 300 feet. And then you've got to try and go down and squeeze into this thing.
And without the handrails or the, or the stairs they put in there, it'd be virtually impossible
for most people. So it feels functional. And there's, there's signs of something happening too.
The great pyramids are real mystery. Like there's, the granite's been deformed like in the king's
chamber, the upper chamber that the granite has been discolored and deformed. And there's evidence
that the entire thing has shifted out like an inch. Like it's almost like an over pressurization
in there or something that pushed all of those blocks out around an inch, which is insane. And
you think about how much pressure that would take, but that's, you know, there's, there's
how they know that. Well, they're just looking at the architecture and analyzing it. They've,
they've looked at the gaps in the, in, in, in all of the masonry and things. I mean, it's just, that's
yeah, it's one of the, I don't, I don't know exactly how they figured it out, but that's,
that's something that's happened there. For sure. It's been discolored. Like there's a,
as you go in there, if you take a, if you ever get the chance at the top of the
Grand Gala and you're going in there, look at the color of the ground, when it switches to
granite, because it's all limestone other than the central structure of granite,
it changes color. Like as you go in, you've got this nice rose granite and then it gets
darker. It's almost like it's been burnt. Like there's, so it's like, who knows what's
happened in there. Maybe it's sort, I don't think it's sort because you, it doesn't come off like
sort. Um, yeah, I don't know. There's, there's, there's, again, there's, I keep coming back to
there's something about these boxes in these pyramids and these boxes in these underground
spaces. And a lot of these boxes, I mean, they're hermetically sealed. They're precision carved on
the inside that had to be for a reason and not for nothing, but the whole just to round out on the
precision thing. One of the arguments I make about precision is that there's a specific
relationship between precision and function, like developing, developing precision. We do this today.
Uh, the best examples like microchips and, and ICBs, integrated circuit boards, uh,
you know, microprocessors and stuff, right? The ability to develop a five nanometer process
that pumps out a chip that's got millions of transitions, transistors on it in a tiny little
footprint costs billions of dollars to develop that capability. We don't do that because it's
ceremonial because it's fun. We do it because we're chasing a functional return on that chip,
like that small footprint, the power that, that whatever it powers the modern world.
It's the same thing with, with precision. Like we developed the ability to do precision
manufacturing and machining in our times to shoot straight. It was like navy gun barrels
were like one of the first reasons like, Oh, we can do this. And then the steam engine,
you know, more pressure. And so we developed this capability because we were chasing
a functional return on it. So it's a prerequisite four hours for an end result.
There's, yeah, there's a relationship when, so when you only develop precision and you, and you,
you spend the resources that it takes to develop precision because you want a functional return
on it. And that holds true for, for any form of precision. Like if, if I maintain that if the
box is in the Serapium was ceremonial, then there's no reason to carve them out and make them perfectly
square or to have these inside corners. It's kind of like you just color within the lines and just
hollow it out with enough space to put a ball in there and then you shove it in place and you
never open it again. Like that's what they say it was for, but it just doesn't make any sense.
You just wouldn't develop these capabilities of creating flat surfaces to within one thousandth
of an inch because it's ceremonial. It doesn't happen. Not to mention the fact that the lids seem
to be removable. They have the lifting bosses and they were like on off, on off. It's like,
well, why are you doing that? If it's a one time use, you know, and why do you shelve a box because
it has a crack in it? That's the other thing. Like all these boxes, it seemed to be really
important that they were solid. They were, they were single piece. Like it wasn't that,
that box, the big black box we saw earlier that's been shoved into a corner developed a big crack
in it. So they stopped work on it. It's not machined. It's not perfectly flat. It's all
carved out, but it's not, they definitely didn't finish it. And, you know, they also went to the
trouble of removing cracks. Like this is why a lot of these boxes have these scoop marks on them.
Look like an ice cream scoop has been applied to the granite. And that's not for any like
ceremonial design purposes. It's to remove cracks. So when you have these little cracks in the, in
the granite, they'll scoop them out. They're like, they're like empty the crack out. If you know,
so if you have a little crack, they're like empty it out so it can't continue. Right. And then that's,
you know, that's a difficult process. And then they polish those scoops as well. And it's all
finished. So you have these boxes that the outside, they're all, they're all, they're all faceted,
like they're faceted like a gemstone cut, like they're all flat planes, but they have these
scoop marks in them where they've removed cracks. And that's because they want the box to be solid.
So whatever's happening in these boxes, it's important that they were solid. Then it's just,
you know, I can't, I don't have any other conclusions beyond that, but it seemed really
important that they were solid. Let's take a pause because we're both sweating our asses off.
We can go step out into the AC for a minute and I can make a call and see you. Leave it,
leave it running, leave it recording. Do I look, I probably look shiny and sweaty.
Sorry, for people who are watching us, we have literally zero AC in the studio,
which is why we're both glistening. Just a little bit. Yeah, what were we talking about before?
We were talking about the, the Giza power plant and the water powering. We were getting into that.
Yeah, getting deep into the Giza power plants. So what could they, what could they have been
powering? What could they have been doing? Well, it's the idea, I think, was mainly that it was
some form of energy generator. Like it was, it was, it was creating a form of energy,
like microwave. That's the theory at least. So I'm looking forward to see what Chris Dunn
comes out with, with his, his next book to explore that. It's been a while since I've
read that book, but that's, I think it's, like I said, there seems to have been
some functional purpose for some of these sites. I think that's the takeaway for me.
And that's certainly what it feels like when you're in that, in that pyramid, like it feels
like some form of machine. What it was, I'm not sure. I'm not convinced that it's,
the answer to that is, is currently within our kind of technological realm, like I was saying
earlier, but it's not necessarily something we can already, we can comprehend. Right. It may be
outside of our scope of understanding yet, but, but for sure we're learning more about all these
different areas. And it's certainly possible that things exist outside of our realm of
understanding, right? There's not, it's kind of an arrogant perspective to look back on history
and go, well, you know, we're, we're like a superset of everything that's happened before.
We understand absolutely everything about what you've done in the past and what may have been
here. But when you, when you, when you kind of combine the idea of an ancient lost civilization
of a high technology civilization that may have been global, and there's tons of evidence for
this outside of like the, the engineering stuff we've been talking about, then those possibilities
is expand, right? If you go back and say, all right, humans, you and, like you and me been here,
we're solving problems. We've, we've for hundreds of thousands of years, including in periods that
weren't like, you know, freezing cold and we had some, some, some warm periods where we had
plenty of food and time and time and space to solve some problems. We may, they may have evolved
down a different technological route. Like that may have been more organic. It might have had more
to just like, why, why are they working in stone rather than working in metals and composite
materials? Like we do, you know, so we would, the way we would solve the problems that some of these
structures solve today, we wouldn't do it in stone. We'd do it in steel and concrete.
Two by fours and drywall. Yeah, maybe it's not going to last very long, but, but because it's
cheap. We were so focused on money, like everything's profit for our civilization. Pretty much,
it is. But one of the other reasons is maybe it was just easier for, maybe they had no,
we have to go with composite lightweight materials because it's difficult for us to work in
things like stone. Maybe it was, they had techniques that maybe it was easier for them
to use that material. I don't know. Like I think there's some of those avenues are worth exploring.
I think they're worth exploring because there is a tremendous amount of evidence that suggests there
were certainly a high degree of knowledge and some system of understanding that existed well
and truly before our current definition of history was ever there. Like we just have these,
these echoes of the past and all of these things that come down through all these cultures around
the world. They come down through us through ancient maps. They come down through us through
architecture. But, you know, they even come down through us through to us in ancient religions
and stories. And even our modern religions have some of these details encompassed in them,
things like celestial knowledge, understanding of the heavens, of the, the motion of the earth and
of the planets. These things are encoded into religions and cultures where even in some cases
where those cultures themselves had no way of knowing this. There's a good book. It's called
Hamlet's Mill that kind of explores this topic. And it shows that there's a, there's a correlation
in the same set of sort of astronomical data on things like the procession of the equinoxes,
which is a 26,000 year cycle that we go through about what the wobble. Yeah, right. It's like,
well, it's, it's not quite the, the wobble is the, the, the obliquity of the, of the ecliptic.
It's like the angle of the earth that changes procession of the equinoxes is, you know, what,
what, what, what, what constellation the sun rises behind, like it rises in during the spring.
During that 27 year period or 26,000 year cycle, 26 and a half. It actually varies because the
26,000 year period. Yes. So right now we're in the age of Pisces. So on, on the, on the,
I believe it's the, the, the, the spring equinox or it might be the solstice. I should know.
It's, it's like, we look at what, what, what constellations behind the sun when the sun rises
in on that day. And right now we're in the house of Pisces. So it lasts about 2,600 years.
They're about to the age of Pisces. They vary a little because the constellations are a little
different in size and scope. It's kind of really interesting because that, and that data is in a
lot of ways encoded into our own religions, the, and the religions of the book that we use today.
It's kind of like the Pisces, the Jesus fish that people put on their cars. Jesus, you know,
he was a, he has, there's a lot of allergies. He fed people with fish. He's some of his disciples
were fishermen. The age before Pisces was the age of Aries, the Ram, which started at about
year zero. So Jesus kind of came in right when we, when we transitioned into the age of Pisces.
And if you go back through like the, the religions of the book, I mean, your, your
representation or your primary figure is Moses and Moses blew the ram's horn. You know, he was a
Jew. So he's kind of representative of the age of, of Aries, the Ram. And before Moses, and before
that, that was about till about 2000 BC. And before that, we were in the astronomical age
of Taurus the bull. So one of the stories in the Bible of Moses coming down from Mount Sinai
with the, with the 10 commandments, he finds his worshipers. He always finds his people worshiping
a golden calf and then they smash the calf up. He actually kills a bunch of them, but they,
they smash it up and grind it into dust. And it's kind of this significance of like the
transition between the age of Taurus into the age of Aries. It's kind of encoded into our religion.
I always laugh. It's funny to see the Jesus, the Jesus fish on people's cars. It's like,
you're, you're acknowledging the astronomical age that we're in. And after the age of, you know,
it comes next right after the age of Pisces, there's even a song about it.
Leo. Age of Aquarius. Oh, Aquarius. The age of Aquarius. Oh, okay, okay. Yeah. Yeah. And in the
Bible, when, when Jesus is the final, the last supper, when he's going into Passover, they,
his followers ask him like, where, what will we do without you, Lord? And he said, we'll go into
town, find the man bearing a pitcher of water, follow him to his house, and there you will find
sustenance. So it's basically a message saying like, find the guy bearing a pitcher of water and
follow him to his house. Like we're going into the house or the house of Aquarius, the age of
Aquarius after Jesus. So it's, yeah. So it's, these things are encoded in there. And there's,
and there's more specific knowledge in the, in Viking traditions, in, in all sorts of ancient
religions that have to do with like celestial, significant, significant numbers, 72 and all
of these numbers that are associated with procession turn up in all of these religions from all
around the world, even when such cultures don't have the ability to make those observations
themselves. So the idea being that, that all of this came from a seeded, a seed point. Like,
so if there was, go with the theory that there was some sort of globally advanced civilization that
understood the mechanics of the heavens and of the earth in great detail. And then that stuff was
then disseminated into all of these, these disparate cultures after cataclysm. And they were put into
these tales and stories and things were deified. Cause that's how we do oral traditions, right?
We don't just say, oh, there's, it takes 72 years for the sun to move one degree on the horizon.
It's like, no, it's put into a tale and a story and it's, it has personalities and gods and stuff
built up around it. And that's how we pass information down through time in oral traditions.
But this, it keeps cropping up across, across all these disparate cultures and religions.
So it all seems to point back to this idea that there was a,
like a seed culture, like there was a, a something that put this data in there in the
first place, some, someone understood all of this. And in order to understand it,
you need to have a high degree of technology and, and, you know, just grasp of like the
motions of the heavens and the motions of the earth. We see that the same thing applies with
longitude and ancient maps, like there's really accurate maps of things like the coastline of
Antarctica before there was ice on top of it that shows up in ancient maps that have been
cobbled together from even more ancient maps that, that have been lost to us because of all these
fires and like the library of Alexandria and other places. They show things like accurate
longitude, which is a big problem, like the East West measurement. We were always good at measuring
North, South using the sun. East West was a problem right up until about the year 1800,
when we developed chronometers or watches that were accurate enough to enable us to do it. It was
around the time of James Cook's second voyage of discovery, we could develop and actually
start to measure longitude, yet longitude and accurate longitude measurements show up on these
ancient maps and they show up in structures like the Great Pyramid. It's, and the only way you can
explain that is through tech technology. Like we don't, there's no other way to make those measurements
and do them that accurately, unless you have significantly advanced technology to at least
the level of where we were in the 1800s. If not more than that, it seems like, because
one of the things that really blows my mind about all of this stuff is this, is that
most of these mysteries that we're seeing now, like the engineering stuff, these ancient maps,
we only realized they were mysteries by the time we got into the 1800s. It took us
so long to develop our technology and our species to really only like 100, 150 years ago,
where we could actually look at stuff and go, oh, this is a challenge, like this is a problem. We
developed our industrial base to the point where we can understand the engineering difficulties in
this only 150 years ago. So, you know what I mean? Like we've only recently developed our
capability enough to the point where we can look at this stuff and say, oh, it's a mystery. So
there has to have been something else going on back in the past because this stuff,
it doesn't happen by accident. What year was that thunder stone rock? They giant, how many times
was that rock? I think it was 1500 or 2000 tons or whatever it was. They, they, they,
the thunder stone when the Russians moved that, that was, I think that was definitely the 1800s,
I want to say. And they moved that on like tracks with ball bearings. Yeah, steel tracks.
A long time. They moved it a long distance too. They did. They moved it across. It's now in St.
Petersburg, I think. So they moved it, how far did they move it? I want to say it was a fair,
I can't remember. I never, I did talk about it in a video. But it was, it was not a
something like a hundred miles at least. More than that. More than a hundred miles. I think they
actually put on a boat and ship. Did they ship it somewhere? I don't know. But yeah, they moved
it quite a distance and they were working on it as they moved it. And in order to, to move it that
way, they use cap stands and then like steel tracks and steel ball bearings that they would
prepare the ground before and then, and then roll that thing real slowly and they just pick up the
track behind it and set it in front and use these big cap stands to slowly turn and creep that thing
across, across the ground. And yeah, it's evidence that we can, it can be done like that.
That's, but you have to also, what's interesting with ancient Egypt is you have a lot of examples
like that. One of my, in fact, the video I'm working on at the moment is, is to do with the
colossal statues that we see or the remnants of the colossal statues that we see in Egypt. And
we're talking about stuff that was a thousand tons or more, a single piece when it was done.
And we have evidence for those in places, even like Tannis. And now Tannis is
way north up in the Delta. Like it's up, it's up near the, like it's in the Delta of the North
end of Egypt. And the source for that stone is far in the south in what they call Upper Egypt,
a place called Aswan. You know, like a thousand miles away. So, you know, there's a huge logistical
challenge with moving that block of stone that may have been 1500 tons before it was finished.
The quarried piece of stone, single piece of stone, a thousand miles north to eventually to
Tannis where there wasn't, and there's, and there's areas like that it would have had to cross it.
It's not just the river's not right there. You have to cross stuff, you know, and not
everything comes from Aswan either. There are other granite quarries in Egypt, like the Wadi
Hammamet quarry that require motion and movement of these large pieces of stones over hundreds of
miles of like desert and mountains. And, you know, it's not all just like pop it on the boat and float
it, which is its own challenge. It's the third aspect of, I think, the evidence for some form
of ancient high technology. You've got machining, precision, and then quarrying and logistics is
the other big one for me. It's the massive stuff that I think anything over four or five hundred
tons, like you can demonstrate and people can move smaller loads, like a hundred tons, 200 tons,
maybe with some primitive means. But once you start to get up into that realm of
400, 600, a thousand tons, material failure becomes a real issue, like using wood at all.
You know, there's tremendous challenges with, it's not like a linear curve of difficulty. It gets
exponentially more difficult once you start to get masses like that. And there's so many examples
of objects in that range of mass in Egypt that are just, it's baffling because one thing we do
know is that there's no evidence that the Egyptians used anything beyond ropes and human horse power.
So they weren't using pulleys. They were using levers, like they would lever stuff. There's
depictions of that, but we don't think they used pulleys or cap stands or animals. For that matter,
we used humans to pull on stuff. It has been proven that it would be physically possible or
technologically possible for them to move the stones that were used to build the pyramids, right?
Sure. Yeah. A lot of those stones aren't that big. Like most of the stones on the Great Pyramid,
two or three tons, you can move those. There's a big challenge when it comes to...
But there's like millions of them.
Yeah. It's like 2.3 million or something. Yeah. And there's a problem with the timeline too,
because in order for them to fit that to the reign of one pharaoh, say, Khufu's lifetime,
he has to have that thing done with somewhere in the realm of like 25 years, which when you
split that out with the number of blocks that are involved with building it, it's something
like placing a finished block every five minutes, 24 hours a day for 25 years to make that happen,
because that's how big an effort it is. Wow. In one of my videos, I compare that with the effort
it takes to build a lot of our modern structures, which take... We don't build anywhere near that,
right? We take us far longer with our modern technology. Yeah. I wonder how long it would
take us to build those right now, if they said we had to replicate them with our equipment and
our technology. To the degree of precision that it's made with, I don't... It'd be difficult.
It would be... That's the challenge with any of this stuff. I think a lot of it's within our
capacity to do, but we don't have the financial will to do it, because it would cost an absolute
bomb, like an absolute bomb. Even to make one box would be a bomb, because it's like...
You imagine trying to transport 100 ton load over our roads, just the permits involved in
doing that are out of control, and then you've got all of the... Just the transport fees alone
are crazy, and then you've got... If you were trying to make a box, it would require the development
of specific designed machines to make that shape, because we don't cut granite like that. We cut
slabs. It just makes it so obvious that we are not a part of some unbroken lineage. We didn't
start here and end here. There was obviously broken at some point, and we had to restart.
Yeah, and I think that's really gets at the core of why I think this stuff is important, too, is
because it's... I think most people, maybe not at the front of their mind, but it's one of those
fundamental tenets of living in our society in general, and what it means to be human today,
is that, well, we've just been taught that we're on this linear scale from the Stone Age to us,
and I'm sure there's a little few ups and downs in that path, but it's like we're on this preordained
path where we're going in the right direction as a human civilization, and it's like nothing
can really go wrong. We're just... This is the path for humanity, and it's like... I think if more
people realize that, well, no, we're just... We might be nothing but the latest revolution of
like, I call it the cosmic hamster wheel of human civilization, and eventually the hamster falls off,
and that we've been through this loop maybe a few times in the past in those 300 to 800,000 years
that humans might have been here. We've developed civilizations. We've become advanced. We've had
a global reach, and then we've just been knocked down because of the cataclysm, and that's the
real key to all of this. It's the other major development that's happened in the last few
decades that I think really unlocks a lot of this stuff as being far more legitimate, and that is
the understanding that, okay, we've actually had recent cataclysm, and I'm sure your viewers and
everybody who saw the Randall podcast, and they're probably familiar with the Younger Dryas cataclysm,
and that period of time, but we've always had legends. Every human religion and story
talks about flood and fire, and the ancestors being knocked down and having to start again,
but turns out that that actually happened. We went through and we've been through several
just periods of intense cataclysm that would have been absolutely civilization ending, to the
point where the most recent one being the Younger Dryas was so severe that it literally changed the
surface of the earth. I mean, we're living in the ruins of the old world. It's why one of the
reasons it was America was called the New World. It literally changed the surface of the earth.
That's how severe that cataclysm was, and it would have wiped, I'm amazed that there's even
anything left from that period beforehand. It was tremendous, but this has established scientific
fact now that's really only happened in the last couple of decades, and it's been a transition
period for geology because... Is it accepted by science, by the establishment that the
Younger Dryas did exist? Yes. That it existed is definitely incontrovertible. That it happened is
established science. We know this from ice core records and temperature records. It's literally
a... The period is called the Younger Dryas period. Where the debate is happening is about what caused
it. What are the guys in the ivory tower saying? Well, I think increasingly they're coming around
to the idea that it was a cosmic impact, but there's a number of other potential sources for it.
I think most of the work... In fact, what's encouraging about this is that this is strictly
kind of paleo-climatology and geology. There is a lot of work now, 150-plus peer-reviewed papers that
are supporting the concept that this period was brought on by a series of cosmic impacts.
Other people have suggested volcanism. Other people suggested the sun. I know Randall talks
about the sun being involved. I think there's absolutely room for that as well. We're learning
far more about the sun and sun-grazing comets and the effect that large solar flares and
things can happen. It's not the only cataclysm that's happened, but there's tremendous evidence
at this point that it was a cosmic impact. There's more than 50 or 60 sites across North America,
Europe, South America, South Africa that show the same consistent impact proxies in the strata
layer in the ground. Shock synthesized nanodiamonds, these extraterrestrial platinum and iridium
layers, the black matte layer. This is a consistent finding across the world. You can also...
They can date the sediment layers. That's right. The stratigraphy in the ground is dated.
What's funny is that, particularly in North America, the sites, they went to archaeological
sites. They went to these really well-established Clovis sites that go back 12,000 years that have
these very well-documented and researched strata layers. In those strata layers, back at the period,
bang on the younger dryers, that's where they find this stuff. It's really well-established.
Eventually, once they started publishing this idea about this comet theory and it might have a
relationship to human civilization, some of these guys stopped getting so much access to these
archaeological sites to do that work. Funny enough, because a lot of the archaeologists,
guys like John Hoops at Kansas State Union, they really don't like the younger dryers at all.
They just hate that idea. Again, it's upsetting. John Hoops. Yeah, you talked about him in one of
your videos. Yeah, I had an interaction with him. Well, he called me out on Twitter and then
ended up... He blocked me for some reason, but he was also... He's one of the guys that if you
go and look at younger dryers on Wikipedia and you click, who's been editing this? It's just Hoops.
Yeah, so he's writing and he's the one who's like... He's the guy who said Graham Hancock's book
promotes white supremacy. Yes, he did. I did a whole live stream on... Yeah, it's shameful,
actually, the way he went. It's like white supremacy and the cancel culture dog whistle
stuff that comes out. He tried to pin all that on Graham, which is absolutely ridiculous if you
know anything about Graham. Yeah, so they attacked him savagely in a recent one of their publications
like American archeology, SAA, the Society of American Archeologies. I have a whole live
stream that tears it down. He's ridiculous that he would do something. When people are doing
something like that, you know that they obviously cannot win this and cannot have a debate about
it and you have to call somebody a fucking white supremacist. That's right. Attacking the man and
not the message, which is what they really do a lot of. So he was always a guy like, oh, there's
none of these younger, drier stuff is nonsense. It's just recycled Donnelly comet myths. Of course,
there's a place for comet myths that's been a part of it and that makes a lot of sense,
given that humans probably went through some pretty traumatic cosmic impacts and there were
people that saw it. I mean, there's accounts in the Old Testament of it, like the fifth angel
built, blew his trumpet and a mountain burning of fire hit the ground and it's in the Mahabharata
and the Indian traditions. They literally talk about swarms of meteors coming from the sky.
So I think there's some firsthand knowledge that's maybe being encoded into some of these
myths and religions, but Hoops is like, ah, there's nothing to this, this, you know, the,
all of this cosmic cosmic, these papers from the comet research group, which are like legitimate
scientists like legitimate academic scientists that are again under all this pressure because
they're stepping out of the mainstream and they're under attack because of it. But he just dismisses
all that and he says, ah, oh, if you want the unbiased source, go to Wikipedia, the Wikipedia
page for Younger Dries. And it's like, you're writing the Wikipedia page for the Younger Dries.
And it just immediately ties into like pseudo-archaeology and Donnelly comet myths. It's just
nonsense. It's one of the, you can't really trust Wikipedia on a lot of these mainstream topics.
It's, um, it is worth looking into sort of the editing and the history of these pages a bit. But
yeah, so there's some resistance to the idea. And I think it's because it upsets the Apple
card again with this concept of, you know, civilization only starting 6,000 years ago. And,
you know, funnily enough, like Graham does, he should get more credit for
successfully predicting the discovery of the, of the Younger Dries. Like when he wrote
Fingerprints of the Gods, I think it was 2006, he, he accumulated all this evidence
from all of these different cultures all around the world and had predicted that there must have
been some cataclysm that happened around that 12,000 year old period that caused the end of
this. And that's where he termed the whole, where a species with amnesia, but he didn't have a source
for it. Like there wasn't any established, oh, it was this or that, there wasn't any scientific
work for it. He was exploring things like ice, like Earth crust displacement and a few other
theories, possibilities that were, you know, popular in the 50s, 60s, 70s that were possibly,
could possibly explain some of the evidence that we see for massive floods and all this sort of
stuff. But then it wasn't until, you know, 10 or 15 years later that the work for the Younger
Dries actually comes out and it totally vindicates him. Not only did he predict it, he predicted
it accurately and he pretty much pinned the right timeframe on it. And that's what's geologically
being shown now. I think it's, it's a huge missing piece of the puzzle. And I think it should have
a tremendous impact on our story of history, but generally it gets ignored by a lot of the
academics, unfortunately, in archaeology and, you know, Egyptology.
When did the evidence for the Younger Dries period come out officially?
I think it was the first paper was published, I think around 2007, I want to say.
2007. I think it was at the Garbos 2006.
Yeah. So he came out and then so the first papers started to come out
early on. And this was then analyzing kind of the impact proxies. So most of the scientific work
has to do with the micro, what I call like microscopic evidence. It's the black matte layer,
the platinum and iridium and shock synthesized nanodimes, all the stuff you need like a
carbon sphere or stuff that tells you there's an impact. And it's sort of a proxy for an impact
and that you need a microscope to look at. The other evidence for this cataclysm is the
macro evidence. And this is where guys like Randall Carlson come in who show, who can,
and this has also only been enabled in recent decades through to, thanks to things like Google
Earth and drones and sort of the aerial look on this stuff. Now we can start to see the patterns
for cataclysm that are still written on the land. And in places like the Channel Scablands,
like it's still written large, like it's fresh and there is evidence for these just catastrophic
flooding. Because it's all tied into that one period. That's the thing that makes the Younger
Dries so severe. And of course there were, there's evidence for other cataclysms before that, but
the Younger Dries associated with it is a megafaunal extinction. Like half of the megafauna on
the planet went extinct. There's a genetic bottleneck of the human species. So we had a huge
bottleneck. This is only recent work as well in genetic diversity and in numbers, particularly
male population numbers that's associated with the Younger Dries. You have an incredible rise
in sea levels around that period just after the Younger Dries. And you have a tremendous like,
like climate catastrophe where the climate swings rapidly all over the planet in just,
you know, which is a contributing factor to some of the extinctions. But all of these things just
focus in on this one period. And you know, there's, there is only a couple of types of events that
can possibly cause that. And you combine it with like, well, we've got all these impact proxies.
Yeah, some stuff hit the planet, probably ended the ice age, melted the ice sheets,
caused these catastrophic floods, nearly took out humans, took out half of the large animals on
the planet, like 85% of them in South America, it turns out. And yeah, it knocked us back. It
would have been a civilization ender. If there was anything around at that period, particularly
in the Americas, it's gone. Like it, it would have been wiped out. And that's the other thing.
People like, well, sea levels have risen three or 400 feet. Let's go look off the coastlines
at that three or 400 feet and see if there's any remnants of civilization.
One of the problems with that is that a lot of it's going to be buried in sediment. Like there
is the off flow of those floods when they, if those floods are what destroyed those,
if there was coastal civilizations at the time, they might be buried in hundreds of feet of
sediment because that's, it wasn't just water, you know, it was, it was just dirt and rocks and ice
and forests and animals and things that just pounded the planet. So where are the ideas for
where the cause, where the, one of the biggest impacts for our younger drives was, I think
Greenland is one of them. And then the Indian Ocean is another. Well, there's a couple. Yeah.
So there's a couple of different things there. So, so the Greenland crater caught is called the
Heawatha crater. Heawatha crater, right? Yeah. So there's been some controversy around this lately
too. There's, it was speculated for quite some time that it could be a young crater as it could
be associated with the younger drives. Recently, there's been some work done there that suggests
it's like 20 plus million years old. But I'd encourage anybody who just read the headline on
that to go and read the actual paper and maybe take a look at some of the criticism of the paper
from guys like Martin Sweatman because there's some issues with it. I wouldn't say it's
definitively dated that way. One of the challenges is that they didn't go to the center of the crater
and drill down and take a core sample of the, it's a difficult area to get to.
They were like 10 miles away analyzing material that's coming out of a stream
that's coming from the crater. And it's possible that they're analyzing the remains from an
ancient volcano. Could be the crater don't know. I'm not questioning the validity of the result.
Like that, that's definitely the age of the material they dated with whatever technique
they used to date it. The other issue that comes into play here is the erosion of the
crater. It still looks like a very young crater from an erosional perspective and the scanning
that we've done of it to the point that in the paper, they kind of question the rates of studying
erosion, data's on craters all together because it's like, it doesn't make sense. It's, it should
be much more eroded and you're under ice in a glacier environment under ice. That's extremely
erosive. That ice moving around grinds stuff down. Yeah, I always thought it would be the
opposite. I thought the ice would preserve it. If you're stuck in the ice like a mammoth, maybe
there might, but not on the ground. Like it's like, wherever that interface is between those
billions of tons of ice in the ground, it just grinds it in a powder. Like that's, you know,
a glacial, it's when glaciers retreat, there's something called glacial till and it's just
like the ground up remains of whatever the hell is beneath this load and it just grinds it in
the dust pretty much. So there's issues with that. I just, I'm not 100% convinced that the
Heawatha crater isn't young. That said, it doesn't mean anything to the younger drys. If it's not,
if it's not the crater for the younger drys, fine. I think where the likely, and this is
something, an area that Randall Carlson is working quite a bit on, and I've seen some of his work
about the idea that a lot of these impact sites for the younger drys may well have been across the
North American ice sheets in areas like the Great Lakes region, and there may still be some indicators
of craters. You got to imagine and remember that those craters are hitting on top of miles of ice,
those objects. So it's not quite the same thing as hitting the ground straight up, but you're
still going through that ice. And I think there's still work to be done in terms of finding
those impact locations. You mentioned the Indian Ocean crater. I think that might,
you might be talking about Burkle crater. Yes, Burkle. But that, that was, I think that was
9,000. That wasn't associated with the younger drys. That might have been an individual event.
Still, still catastrophic. That may have been the source for the biblical flood, actually.
Noah's flood. Yeah, because that was, I think, I think 5,000 BC was the date for Burkle crater.
And they know this because there's like a two mile, like a miles wide hole in the bottom of the
Indian Ocean. And on the shorelines of Western Australia and Madagascar Island off Africa,
they have these basically, what do you call it, chevrons, like these waves, these sand dunes,
like where it's, it's washed up material. And at the tops and in these chevrons,
they've got organic material that came from the seafloor of the, of the Indian Ocean that they've
been carbon dated to around like 5,000 BC. So something went plop down into the ocean
and it, and they're hundreds of feet high, like the hundreds of feet high. So this is like when
you shoot a paintball at a wall, a piece splatter. So the seafloor is splattered across.
It's splattered. It was carried in tidal waves that were probably hundreds of feet high that
washed inland for, for like dozens and dozens of miles on Western Australia and on Madagascar,
like hundreds of feet high, like you couldn't imagine it. And then what's interesting about
the location in the Indian Ocean is that it would have also sent that tidal surge north
up into the Persian Gulf and right up into the med, like so right around the area that, that,
that, you know, our culture comes from, like the, the, all of the Bible stories and things. So
this idea of everything flooding and it raining, the fall out from that event, you know, it's,
it's kind of in the right timeframe for that, for that, for that story. And it certainly would have
caused catastrophic flooding up there in the Persian Gulf as well, which is the source for all
those, the Aramaic kind of religions and things. So yeah, I don't know that, that may be a source
for it, but that's, that's one of the reasons why there's a bit of resistance to the younger
dryers is that they haven't found a specific crater just yet. But I think regardless of
the crater, I'm like, something happened, like there's so many, you know, you don't just get
this extinction event out of nowhere, although we do attribute overhunting. That is the mainstream
explanation still mostly, well, climate change, because we know the climate change, but what
drove the climate change, but the overhunting thing's kind of ridiculous because you, you know,
the amount of species that went extinct in a very short period goes right down to a couple of birds,
you know? And it is equivalent to the same amount of megafauna that exists on the planet today.
That's how many species went extinct in a short order back then. And did you say there was like
a woolly mammoth who got blown right off of his arches? Oh yeah. Yeah. So there's lots of other,
like individual anecdotal, I guess, sort of examples of severe trauma, let's say, to some of
these species that have been found. One example is of a mammoth or a mastodon that his feet had
sunken in, say, a foot or two into some mud and at all of, just at that same level on all four of
his legs, they were just snapped off in one direction and his shoulders up near his, or his
hips up near his shoulder, like he was just jumbled up as if he'd been hit by some sort of massive
shockwave. Right. So you might imagine, well, maybe he was near one of these epicenters and he
got hit by a shockwave and that's what's left. We have, there's a number of examples of stuff
like that. It's very interesting to look into, but they're like individual examples of, okay,
something might have happened in this area that caused this to happen. I mean, it would take
tremendous effort to break it like an elephant femur, for example. It's not an easy task.
But we see that, we see it in some caves with jumbled up bones of different species of extinct
megafauna that are mixed up with smashed up trees and things like this huge mess of bones of all
these ancient megafauna that's like some, something smashed them all up and put them in there.
So there's lots of examples of things like that. So I want to go back real quick to some of the,
some of the work that you did with the machining. One of the things that we glossed over was,
was the drill cores and the pottery. Michael, if you could find some of those photos of the drill
cores, what was the pushback against or what was like the, the narrative of the drill cores that
are found in so many of the stones in Egypt and then what you found when you, once you finally
went there with a fucking HD camera and filmed it. Well, to be fair, again, we've known about the,
the mystery of the drill cores since Flinders Petrie, Tom. He was the first one. In fact,
he's sort of the genesis of the controversy around this. So what we're talking about is,
is the circular drill holes just like this one. This is, this is, this is the hole that's left
after the tube has been drilled out. And in fact, this is one of my favorite examples at Abusir,
because you can see on the lip of that thing, how thin the tool tip was, right? It's like a very
thin tool that was drilled into this stone and then that core was, was snapped off.
What's, what, what you see in a lot of these holes is today we've got this half,
he's got this like section cut of it. It's because the stone has since been split
along that axis, right? So these were all full, full holes in the day. And I think what, when
these sites have been quarried to buy people looking for stone later on, they would look for
these holes because it's, and then they would try and split the stone along the axis at the back. So
they would do the wedge and chisel method and then try and split the stone through the drill
hole because it's weakened it a bit. It's like, all right, we can cut it. We can try and split
the stone this way. So that's why you see so many of these like half cut holes like this one.
So what happened, what you're left with is a core that comes out of there. So you snap this
granite or basalt, whatever core off. And the famous artifact where this stems from is, is a,
is a core that's in the Petrie Museum in London. And it's called Petrie's core number seven because
it was number seven on a plate of other examples of stone cutting that he was looking at scratching
his head saying, this is some fantastic method of cutting stone and it gets to the jazz too. But
this was what, what he found on that stone and he documents quite extensively is that it has a
continuous spiral groove. Yeah, that's Petrie's core number seven. Still today, you can kind of
see the groove on it. There's a grooved layer, like kind of like a, that goes around it. And
what Petrie found was that it was a spiral. It was a continuous spiral. So it would, it wasn't
like just circular lines. This was a continuing spiral, slight, slight tilt to it, slight angle
to it. And so he published this and he got a bunch of pushback on it. And then finally,
you know, Chris Dunn, you are considered like his modern successor on these engineering topics
was an eight, I think that's his photo actually, he was allowed to go in and actually examine the
core. So him and a bunch of other guys, Malcolm McClure is another guy that went in and they
tested it. They looked at the spiral. They're like confirmed. Yes, this is spiral. It's a
continuous groove that runs around it. Chris made a latex mold of it. So he, he molded this
thing in latex and then cut it, laid it out and sort of, and geometrically proved that it's a spiral.
Didn't they wrap a string around the whole thing? They did a cotton, yeah, cotton wool test where
they just finally sort of under, under, you know, magnifying glass, followed the groove and wrapped
it and like showed you that it's a spiral. I mean, it's, it's, it's got some wear on it. It's,
you know, there's sections of it that show you it's more spiral. But so, but, but what the
mainstream explanation for this, so from Petrie's day, like 150 years ago, it's always been denied
that it's a spiral groove. They just flat out like, nope, it's concentric rings. They say it's
just like rings on it. So because the way we explain this in the mainstream model is the same,
it's the grinding methods. Like we got a copper tube and we put some sand and water down and a
big bow drill and we just ground away. Like we grind back and forth and back and forth and eventually
you can go and, and so they did experiment. They cut out a little like three or four inch drill,
drill core and Mark Lane and snaps it off and goes, ah, that can be fourth dynasty. They don't
actually look at the markings. They don't compare them, right? But they did a study at Penn State.
I think it was in the 80s even that they, and I had the study, I referenced it in the video, but
so they did a study where they took different, you know, grinding compounds and different
techniques and they looked at it under an electron microscope and they all said, yep,
look, this is all concentric rings because it's like a high speed drill with different material
and it's very fine concentric rings around these little like cores. But from the very first part
of that, of that study that not once do they mention that Petrie said it was a spiral groove.
They just call it circular, like concentric circles. They just don't even admit that there's
a spiral groove here to the point that in the textbook where the stuff is, is, is taught and,
and this is what Chris Dunn showed in, in his book. And I point out in this documentary
is that when they show this picture of Petrie's core number seven in the textbook,
they literally tilt the photo just a little bit. They tilt it so that when you're looking at it,
the lines look horizontal. Like if they, and they, it's like deliberate manipulation of the photo,
just to make it look like it's horizontal. And, and, and Dunn shows like, if you actually look
at this thing in the correct frame of reference, you stand it up straight, you can kind of see
that there's a spiral groove on this thing. So the implications of this is the problem is, is that
when you, when you have a spiral groove on a core, we can now use that to determine how fast did this,
did this core get cut? Like what, if you assume that, that, that groove is part of the cutting
process. There's the difference between the, the one on the left was the one that was published in
the book where they, they, they made the grooves look perfectly horizontal as if they weren't some
sort of downward spiral. Yeah. Yeah. And then, and then Dunn corrects it with the shot on the,
on the right. That's right. And B. Yeah. Crazy. And it's, it's just a little trigger. They never,
and then the, the issue is, is that when you have a spiral groove on it,
now you can, we can figure out like how fast, if you assume that groove was part of the cutting
mechanism, then how fast was this penetrating into granite? Now it turns out that it's something
like 500 times faster than we can manage today. In terms of like third and I, six inches of,
of horizontal travel that goes, you know, half an inch in or whatever the rate is,
it's about 500 times greater penetration into the stone than we can manage with our tools today.
How do they figure how fast it can go? Well, so if, again, it's like, it's like,
if you follow the groove, you can determine for so much distance of horizontal travel,
what the vertical travel is, right? So it's like, so the road to, because you can flatten out that
rotation and say, okay, so for six inches of horizontal travel of turning, it might go in
a half inch or whatever it is into the granite. And then we compare that with our modern
stone tools. Right. Okay. And how fast they go. And so you've got to, don't, it's two ways of
thinking of it too. Like our stuff, if you look at the way we cut this sort of material today in
holesaws, it's high speed, like spins really fast and grinds its way in there quickly. It doesn't
take too long. But so this may have been a very slow moving tool. This might have been something
that used some other technology to cut the stone, but turned relatively slowly compared to our modern
tools. But it penetrates the stone. Like it's cutting through the stone at a 500 times greater
rate than we can manage with our stuff today, which is like, how the hell are they doing this?
And you see the same thing in some of the other cutting signs. Now, it leads to a lot of speculation
around, okay, was it the thermal tool? Was it ultrasonic? Was there something? And so all of
this stuff, the implications for it are astonishing because it, for damn sure, it wasn't some
copper tube, which we've never found, by the way, we've never found any of these grinding
tubes that they said they use have not found a single one. Undoubtedly, they use that technique
of the Egyptians. Look at that fucking thing. Well, yeah. And so some of them get really big.
You get them up to eight inches. Like most of the tube drills are small, but I've seen them.
There's a one at Karnak Temple that's eight inches across into granite. And that's even bigger. That's
a coffer that's in the Egyptian Museum. They may have moved it to the new museum because it wasn't
there last time I checked. But that's like four massive tube drills into a big block of what
looks like basalt or diorite or something. And you see them all over the place. So it has all
this implications for the technology that was used to make the tools. And that's where the
devil's in the details on this thing. And so the argument's always been about, it's not a spiral
groove. It's never a spiral group because if it is a spiral groove, the implications are earth
shattering for Egyptian history. Yeah. That's why I don't understand why they try so hard
to hide all this stuff. Like the stuff that you're finding and all this evidence. Why they're
trying to basically straw man all these findings that you have and all this evidence of technology.
Like what's the purpose? I don't see any other purpose other than like money. Like we're getting
paid to, we're getting paid too much to reveal this stuff. There's got to be an incentive.
Yeah, I guess. And again, we talked about it earlier, but I think it's, I think it's,
yeah, on our break. Well, we talked a little bit about the incentives there, but yeah,
but earlier we were talking about establishment and just like this, you're protecting this story.
Like it's like the dogma of the story that's anything that goes against that, it gets a strong
resistance. Now, I don't know if there's other motives behind some of it. Well, tourism might
be part of it, but tourism, you think, well, if this is even, you think, okay, wow, there's some
law civilization that had higher technology, higher technological capabilities than we have today
that definitely did this stuff. I think people are going to come there
in hordes compared to what they're doing now. I agree. No, I agree. I think emphasizing the
mystery can only be good for tourism. Like I think, I don't think there's, yeah, I don't think
saying that, oh, there's no mystery here. We've got all the answers. It's going to attract people
as much as like, hey, there's some significant mystery here that when you go there and look at
it for yourself, it'll blow your mind. That'll bring more people, I think. It's certainly more
interesting that way. But it's, yeah, you know what annoys me is that the only core that we've
been able to look at and do this experiment on is Petri's core number seven because it's in the
Petri Museum and they have actually allowed some researchers to play with it. We have lots of cores,
we've got lots of drill holes. It's crying out for like latex molds of these things for high
definition 3D scanning. It might prove me all wrong. I don't care if it's like
why can't we go and answer those questions because we have the technology to do it. And I would be
more than happy to be, oh, okay, that wasn't anomaly. That's not how it was done.
As long as we could go and look at these things and do it, I suspect that they're going to keep
finding results like that if they do. But the Egyptian Museum and these places have lots of
cores from lots of holes. And there's lots of these holes still on these sites. And you can
still feel and see the striations and the grooves. And you can, I don't know why we're not making
these types of investigations into them. They're harmless and it would help to answer some of
these questions, but it just doesn't seem to happen. This might sound like a little tinfoil hat,
but do you think they know what the fuck was going on? Or they may be on the cusp of finding out
and they just want to hide it from the public? I think it's a possibility. I don't say that.
I don't think everybody's... Could they be developing some sort of fucking hypersonic
weapon? I don't know. I don't know about that. I do think there's examples of
certainly information that's been hidden from the public. I'd say that. And in fact,
I've got some examples. There's a number of times, and it may not always be nefarious purposes.
It may just be simple politics or people protecting their position. But for sure,
there's been suppressed... There's information that's been suppressed. One of the biggest
things... I want to do want to come back to the jars, but this is one of the biggest things that
I've did a video on about the lost labyrinths of Egypt. So the labyrinth is... For people that
haven't heard of the labyrinth, it was one of the ancient wonders of the world. This was
described by Herodotus and Pliny the Elder and Strabo and all these historical figures that
saw it. And Herodotus described it as exceeding in splendor and wonder that of the pyramids.
The labyrinth was this sort of thousand room structure that was supposedly just absolutely
magnificent. You could have fit all of the temples of Karnak and Luxor and all of the
temples of Egypt into its footprint. It was underground. It had multiple levels. There's
all these historical accounts of people visiting it and just being awed, like massive granite blocks,
and structures and temples. This is a huge thing that was just lost to the sands of time. It just
disappeared. At some point after the early Romans wrote about it and the Greeks, it just somehow
disappeared into the sands of time. Now, we've never known where it is or what it is. And it would
be like a pyramid. It would rival the Great Pyramid, for sure, if we were to find it. But
it turns out we found it. And Petri actually thought he found it. He found some blocks.
It's at a site called Hawara in Egypt. It's over near the Foyum region. And Petri was digging
around and a lot of people have speculated it might have been in this area. Petri dug around,
found these massive granite blocks, thought, oh, I'm standing on the foundation for it,
the bottom level. It's all been quarried and taken away and this must be the foundation for it.
Turns out he was standing on its roof. And then it wasn't really looked at again after that for
a while. But a guy named Louis de Cordier did something called the Matahar Expedition. I think
it was 2008. He went in and he had partnership with the Egyptian Department of Antiquities for
this study. And they went and did ground penetrating radar and his other acoustic tests and a whole
bunch of different tests at Hawara. And they found it. They found the labyrinth. It was spread out
across like multiple football fields along all sides of this pyramid and on all sides of this
canal. Thing is absolutely massive. They found all this granite and these labyrinth line like
structures under the ground. And unfortunately, his entire report and all of the public information
about this was suppressed. It was literally and Louis de Cordier said it was Zahi who was suppressed
under threat of national security sanction, meaning that he would ban anyone that violated
this suppression from ever coming to Egypt again. And it was buried. Who was the guy who suppressed
Zahi? Who was he? He was the Egyptian minister of the he was in charge of the Supreme Council
of Antiquities politician. Well, he's the famous Egyptologist. He's the he's written a bunch of
books and Indiana Jones, Indiana Jones. So but he and this is and this is not me saying this is
Louis de Cordier, the guy who funded and directed it along with Ghent University of Belgium,
did this whole experiment, did this report called the Matahar expedition.
If you go and search on on archive.org, you can probably still find some of it. I've got the
paper from it. It was disappeared from the web. He waited a bunch of years and then eventually
came out and sort of talked about it, but there wasn't any press about it. So and it's unfortunate
is because the labyrinth is like one of the lost wonders of the ancient world. Like it's sitting
right there. And unfortunately, it's rotting away in like salty groundwater, because
that's one of the challenges, I think. And I think this is where I say it's not. I don't know.
I think it's mostly being suppressed and was buried because of probably political reasons
more than anything, because it has to do with the damming of the Nile River. Like so Egypt
dammed the Nile in the 1960s, they put up what's called the Aswan Dam. And that stopped that
inundation of the Nile. So every year, the Nile would flood and it would spread its, you know,
it would flood and then it would retreat and it would flood. And that's how they did a lot of
the irrigation. When they dammed the Nile, everything north of that ceased that inundation
stopped. Now you'd think that that would lower the water table, but it actually has the opposite
effect because the Nile wouldn't shrink down in summer. There's been a consistent flow of water
into there. It's actually raised the water table. So in the last sort of couple of hundred years,
the water table in these regions come up significantly, including at Giza places like
that, the level of waters come up. So today, the water table at Hawaii is at about five meters
and the labyrinth starts at about nine meters underground. So and in order to fix that and
to excavate and do stuff, you're talking like probably billions of dollars of infrastructure
required to even fix the drainage on the site. And it also sits at the neck, the entry into the
Foyoum region, which is a large depression that's used for a lot of agriculture in Egypt.
And they'd have to probably start messing with like farmers water and it would be a huge political
problem. A, it'd be a problem for Egypt if the whole world knew that the labyrinth is being left
to rot in the ground here, which is like a historical wonder that sort of belongs to everyone.
And then B, it would be an issue to try and mess with the water rights flowing into this
really farming, important farming area that's used for a lot of the agriculture of Egypt.
So I think for those reasons, perhaps that, I don't know, that may be part of the reason that it was
suppressed, but suppressed it was. I mean, it's undeniable. But so people that are interested,
I've got a video on the topic on my channel, and then you can also probably go and find the
paper. But it's like, I would, I would think that if they went public and you would probably
raise the funds through all of the universities and the institutes that would be interested
in uncovering that and doing research on it, enough such that you could probably get that,
make that happen. Because it's, it's like the, it could be the biggest discovery of the century,
if not longer, if they found, if they really uncovered and looked at the, at the labyrinth,
which appears to still be there. What, what was it used for, do you think?
I don't know. I don't know. It's, I think it's, it was potentially like a,
it could be a vastly ancient structure that was used by the Egyptians for sure, the priesthood.
And they, they worshiped the crocodile God in there. And there's a lot of that said that, that
they had many, many halls and temples dedicated to all the pantheon of the God. So it might have been
a, a reused temple. I think that was, that happened in a lot of places in Egypt. They,
they placed like the Assyrian and Abaddus temple of Sedi the first. They reused and
repurposed this stuff when they found it and it got integrated into their culture over time.
I suspect the labyrinth may fit that mold as well. So that's, that's what it was. Yeah. I don't know.
So it's an interesting question though. We talk about the functionality of some of these things
because this gets back to things like the statues, right? So as much as I think there was a functional
purpose to the boxes and, and those underground spaces and some of the sites themselves with
the channeling and the U blocks, it's hard to argue that the statues had a functional purpose.
Like those, those are representational for sure and ceremonial, but they also display
a lot of the same precision elements, right? It's the faces are perfectly symmetrical,
which is incredibly difficult to head jets or these, the crowns on some of these structures are
these, these, these figures have, you know, compound curved surfaces that are also perfectly
symmetrical, very difficult to, you must need computer guided stuff to make that happen.
And so I get the question occasionally it's like, well, hang on, if the Egyptians and
dynastic Egyptians didn't make the statues and you think they're older, is this the builder culture?
And I'd, my answer to that is yes, I think what we're looking at with these precision statues,
and in particular the giant ones, but I think this also applies to things like Khafre and
Throne and a few of the smaller statues. I think these are inherited. And I think we're looking
at the remnants of how that builder culture that the Egyptians ancestors represented themselves.
And I think, oh yeah, that shows the symmetry. This is, this is part of the symmetry. Yeah,
this is like sort of an example for machining and the same curve curvature being used on the face.
There's another image that shows you a reverse transparency of this same head where it's,
it's basically you take a photo and you mirror, flip it on the, on the vertical and then you
make them both 50% transparent and lay them over each other. And they're identical. And it's
identical. Yeah, identical. Like you don't, this is not, it's neither a characteristic of a human
face, nor is it something that's achievable with just carving into granite by hand when there's zero
mistakes and by, and remember that there's lots of these. Is there an idea that these could have
been molded? Like they could have heated up the rock and like poured it. The geopolymer concept.
Yeah. A lot of people. Geopolymer. People call it geopolymers. Like it's a poly, like a concrete
type of thing. Right. Comes up quite a bit. I'm not a, I think there's some evidence for it in South
America, potentially with some andesite stuff, because there's actually been a couple studies
done down there. I don't think it's the case for granite. I don't think it's the case for most
of the limestone either in Egypt. We have the idea of it being a concrete, like it's like you
somehow, there was a whole movie, this K 2019, I think it was, it's like a four, five hour movie,
kind of trashes, Graham Hancock and Randall Carlson and it, but it gets to the point of,
well, they use these giant quartz magnifying lenses to obliterate rock and then make it into a slurry
and cast stuff. I just, there's lots of reasons to, it looks like it though. It does look that.
Yeah. That's what it fucking looks like. It does, but it's not because you have, we have quarries
for first. We literally have quarries where the shapes of the rocks have been pulled out and we
have the unfinished obelisk. We also have things like veins of other material. So you, in granite
natural rock, you'll have like, you know, veins of quartz, of pure quartz running through it,
or you have veins of other material that you'll find still in the stone, because that's in the
piece that was quarried from the ground. You don't find that in, if you were, if you were making a
concrete version or something. Yeah. So this is some of the other exact one there. Yeah. That's,
that's the reverse transparency. Oh, that's the transparency. Okay. So you see Christon's hand
on both sides. Oh yeah. It's mirror image. So if it wasn't perfectly symmetrical, you'd see
overlap. You'd see like, it wouldn't be in focus or perfectly symmetrical. So it's like a
reverse transparency overlay matching. Wow. It's insane. And that's not, yeah, it's,
the implications of this are incredible. Like, what, some sort of giant 3D CAD thing?
Now, it isn't, it is incredible how it's perfectly symmetrical. That is definitely
incredible. But the precision, like I mentioned to you last night, the precision is very similar
to like the statue of David, where like, you can see the veins in his hand perfectly. Beautiful.
It looks like it's just like a, like a, like it was 3D printed almost. Yeah, it's insane. And in
fact, you see that, in fact, there's a good point we can come back to in a second about the writing,
the difference between this sort of stuff and then what you see in the writing itself. But
let me finish with what I was saying about the statues. It's like, I think there's a, and you
have to remember, when it comes to the statues and their culture, the Dynastic Egyptians themselves
see themselves as a legacy civilization, right? They, they trace their own history back 30 or 40
thousand years and we determine that that's just myth and legend. Like they talk about Zeptepe,
the time of the gods, Shem Tzu Ho, the followers of Horus, and they split out, they had these leaders
and they document this line of kings that goes back 35,000 years. And then, you know, it's eventually
it starts with Pepe or whatever the first, and that's the first dynasty in our times. And we just,
we arbitrarily, we're the ones making the judgment. Well, that stuff before that's just myth and legend
and their actual civilization starts here. They don't make that distinction. And I think that if
you go with the idea, okay, so let's assume there was a technologically advanced civilization
that did make a lot of these artifacts and, and they represented themselves with these statues
and these people, then if you're the Dynastic Egyptians and you viewed them as your ancestors,
you would model yourself after them. I think that's exactly what's happened. They modeled
themselves after them and the pharaohs and their kings were trying to capture that power through
ceremony and, and religion and make themselves one of them. And they continue to depict themselves
going down through time. It's like an advanced cargo cult. That's, I think that explains a lot
of the ancient Egyptian civilization. Like that, I think it fits the evidence that we see.
It's certainly one interpretation for it. But yeah, it's, it's, the statues are insane.
And what was this made out of? What were these granite? These are made out of granite.
Okay. And where does granite lie on the scale of? It's a six or seven. Like it's,
there's like a copper and even iron is not going to do much to granite. Like granite's
ridiculously hard. Like it's one of the most difficult stones to work in. It's,
are there any other sculptures made out of granite post dating this time period? Like,
are there any modern, are there any modern sculptures? In fact, there is. There's a,
there's a good example of, what's it called? I forget the, the, I forget the, the Arabic
name for it, but this is a statue in Egypt in Tahir Square, I think called Egypt, Egypt rising.
And it's, and it's a granite statue is made from a bunch of different pieces. This is
an interesting thing. It's funny. So they made this statue. We do do stuff in granite.
They made this statue. It's bolted together at a bunch of different pieces.
And in order to have it polished, they had to send it to Italy. Wow. In pieces. Yeah. In pieces.
And what's funny to me is, is that they clearly had the ability to polish granite and granite
statues pretty well back in the day in Egypt. Like they were able to polish up stuff. But in
today's times, it was made in like the fifties, I think, 1950s. And in order to have this Egypt
rising statue polished, they had to ship it to Italy and have it shipped back and they bolted
it together. And it's been out in the elements for maybe 50, 60 years now. And it's the polishes
worn off like it's fading already. Wow. Which is incredible when you consider that you have
artifacts like this that are sitting in the sun for at least thousands of years, if not longer,
that still maintain their polish. So the quality of the work and however they were polishing the stone
far exceeds what we are doing with our stuff today. Like it's absolutely crazy. And this is all one
piece. And it's all one piece. Yeah. You got to pull up the picture of that giant, what was that
long thing called? That was still in the bedrock they were quarrying? The obelisk. The obelisk.
There's a giant like long rectangular obelisk that they're still, it's still sitting in the ground.
The thing weighed what, like a thousand tons? 1200 tons. 1200 tons. Yeah. And there it is.
Yeah, it's crazy. It's, it's, you know, and you got to, that photo doesn't do it justice in terms
of the angle that it's lying on. And then there's a granite mountains all around it. So you have to,
you got to remember to get that thing out of there. Once you detach it from the bedrock,
you have to lift it up like 30 feet and then maneuver it somehow across this mountainous
rocky environment to get it to wherever you want to put it on a boat or something. It
reminds you the Nile is about a mile away, a kilometer or so away. So yeah, there's,
this is insane to go and see it. And this was, you know, this was, this was buried forever. This,
this, this may be some of the oldest layers of this quarry. When they dug this out, it was under
like seven, eight meters of other sediment and other big blocks that they had to split in half
to even get to it. And the Romans built stuff like this by putting it together, right? Like
they're giant, like the giant, giant Roman, Roman columns, they were in pieces as did the
Egyptians. So later, this is the other thing you not only do we have obelisks like this,
we have single piece columns. If you flip through these photos, you'll find some incredible
photos of, of these column ends, these, these flowered lotus flower or palm shaped columns
that are absolutely remarkable in their precision and symmetry,
but they're also giant single peat there. That's a good example right there.
These are all over the place. So these are the, some of the oldest style. These,
if you found these at Sakara, Giza, single piece columns, we also have like,
this thing's about five feet in diameter. Yeah. Yeah. And they may have been 30, 40 feet long
or longer, 50 feet. And they're all over the place. Now in later times in the middle and new
kingdom, they did big columns too, but they made them out of sandstone and they made them with
blocks like, like rounds, they stacked, stacked rounds up and then they'd shave them down and
shape them. And the same thing happened with the Egyptian, with the, the Romans and the Greeks.
And it's funny, you go to Rome, you go to the pantheon and you see at the front of the pantheon
there's like five or six of these massive thick granite pillars, the single piece holding up
the pantheon. They came from Egypt. Like they take, they took them from Egypt and used them in
the architecture in Rome, much like they did with the obelisks. It's like, it's not the easy
people. That's, it's literally the most difficult way to do this stuff
out of, made out of some of the most difficult to work stone. And it was done in the earliest
periods of the Egyptian history, according to the mainstream narrative. It's just, it doesn't
make sense. And they just do, it's just fascinating. They do not even acknowledge this. No, no, it's
just like, well, they just, well, the mainstream with the pyramids is like, well, they just didn't
care as much about pyramid building after that. They just, it's like they decided to do other
things. So it's funny, you know, and when you go to places like Karnak temple and Luxor,
there is a real, you have to be careful when you look at it because there's a,
there's a spectrum of stuff there. And there's, and it's, I think in a lot of these sites, what
happened was the Egyptians found a lot of these things, the statues, the columns, and then they
constructed their temples around them. Like they realized how magnificent and like incredible
these achievements were like the work of their gods. And not only that, but like another thing
that you point out in your videos is they plastered their hieroglyphics on top of them, where it looks
like my two year old or my three year old walked up to the statue of David with his crayons and
just drew a bunch of pictures on them because like even with the hieroglyphics, you could see
how they're chiseled out. They're not smooth. They're very rough. The lines aren't straight. Yeah.
When you have this incredibly precise geometric object that they're drawing this on, it's like
completely different. You can tell it's from completely different times.
Indeed. If you go to the writing directory, there's a few photos of it. That's my favorite one
actually. That column is one at Bastet, which is not really visited. There's, in fact,
there's a huge granite rubble field behind it. You see, that's all granite pieces. And this is,
this is, I have a video, I show this thing quite a lot. It's so sharp and well-defined and well
made. It's just, it blows your mind about how precise this was. And they stamped these things
out like they're making them in a factory. Dude, it looks like a fucking mold. It does,
doesn't it? But yeah, it's not. It's, yeah, it's, it's, it's come from the ground and it's been
shipped a long way because this is the Bastet's up there in the Delta as well. It's like a thousand
miles from Aswan where the granite came from. So what was this? For people that can't see it
right now, they're only listening. It's a column. This is the end piece to a flared column. So it's
you'd call it like a lotus flower or a palm-shaped column that's a flared end piece. The, the,
the thickness through the middle of the body is probably four or five feet thick. At the,
at the ends, it's six, six and a half feet. And it's shaped with, you know, very sharp,
defined lines and, and, and little balustrades that are on it. What's, what's difficult about
these column shapes is that you have to remember, when you quarry this block, you've got to quarry
a block that's at least as thick as the end of that column and then you're shaving it down
and you're removing all this material and then, you know, again, single piece. So you can't really
make a mistake. You can't fuck up. You can't fuck up anyway. You're changing the, the geometry,
the whole thing then. You are. When you do that, right. And they, and again, there is
hundreds of these things. And what is this made out of? Granite. Granite. So if you can imagine
taking, like if somebody's just listening to this, just imagine taking Play-Doh and putting it in one
of those Play-Doh plastic molds where you smoosh it together and you peel it off and you had this
perfectly smooth Play-Doh object. That's what this looks like. And it's made of granite. Yeah.
Well, and another reason why I don't go in for the geopolymeroids is that granite itself is a
conglomerate material. So inside of granite, you have these chunks of quartz, of micro hornblend,
all these other things. And the only way that this granite doesn't work like a composite,
it takes millions of years of heat and pressure to, to form that into the stone that we use today.
It would be, it's an unknown science if it were, if it was a geopolymer, certainly today. I want,
this is what Chris Dunn usually says too. It's like, well, just send me a bag of it and we'll
mix it up and see what it looks like. Because you can't, and some of this stuff is like, you have
giant chunks of quartz in them. And it, it's an indicator of something else too that's, that's,
that always blows my mind when I'm thinking about these really large single piece objects of granite
is that this stuff doesn't come from surface granite. Like you don't find
significantly large pieces of granite in the quarry that are like a whole enough without cracks
or distortions until you dig down like 30 feet into a mountain of granite. You've got, you've got,
this is like core granite. It's very high quality stuff that comes from the insides of granite mountains.
So you're already talking about, you have to remove like 30 feet of granite to even get to a
piece that you can start to quarry that might end up as something like this. And there's hundreds
of these types of things, hundreds of them. Which goes to show, which kind of proves that it had to
be extremely, I mean, not extremely, but it had to be relatively fucking easy for them to do it.
Must have. Because they did so much of it. Otherwise it would have taken them a hundred
years to make one of these. Yeah. With the, with the tools that they supposedly had that in that
time. Yeah. After the, after the younger, younger dryers. Right. Pounding stones and what not, right?
You're just pounding away, which yeah, there's been experiments that show just how long that takes.
So, and this contrasts nicely when we talk about these precision objects with what we see in the
writing. And you've got to remember with the writing, the hieroglyphs, that is far and away the
primary source for how we date and relate objects like this into the story of history. So if you
have a precision carved box and it has the name of Ptolemyus or Ptolemy or a king on it, then
Egyptologists are going to say, ah, this box was made for Ptolemy and it was made in the time of
Ptolemy. And therefore this is where this comes from. So we use the writing to date and relate
stuff. And this is perfect example. This is a good example. So the box in the Serapium,
there's one box in particular that they consider the most valuable because it has the most writing
on it. And it's in again, it's a remarkable box, right? It's this incredible dark black
granite box that's reflecting material and reflecting light like a mirror. And somebody's
taken a friggin' chisel to it and has basically vandalized it. Because when you look at the
writing, you flip through a couple of these, you'll see it. When you look at the writing,
it's just chick and scratch compared to the box itself. And there's like no straight lines. You
can you can literally see the tooltip marks that are on it. They couldn't make a straight line.
They in fact, there's places where they couldn't even chip the material. And you've got to compare
and contrast that with the perfect straight lines of the object itself. We clearly had the ability
to polish it. Yeah, if you go back to the Sphinx is one of my other favorite examples. So this is
a what's called a Hicksoft Sphinx. It's in the Chiro Museum. I think it's still there. It might
get moved to the new museum at some point. But this, you can see the work in the granite, right?
That they're showing you the ribs of this animal through like reflections of light, like clearly.
Well polished, beautiful work into the stone. And then it's just been
brutishly kind of chiseled into by this writing that's on the side of it. And you can see the
tool marks and people who made this line would never deface it like that. I think so. Yeah. I see.
I think the writing, my opinion is that all of the writing came with the dynastics. And in a lot of
cases, they were writing on top of inherited objects. And we have proof of that. We'd certainly know
that there was a lot of relabeling going on. Like some of these Sphinxes have like five or six
names of different kings on them because Ramsey Ramsey's will. So his like said he the first
Ramsey's the second, then his son, Marin Patar in the 19th Dynasty were notorious for this Ramsey's
in particular was notorious for writing his name very deeply on top of other people's names. And
you see there's there is example after example after example of this going on. So we know that
they were rebadging stuff. They were putting their name on stuff. But today we kind of just
people's if they just have a minimal understanding of ancient Egypt, everyone thinks like Ramsey's
the great Ramsey's was the most powerful king of Egypt. He was the strongest. He had the most stuff.
He built everything. He put his name on it. He definitely did build stuff. But he put his name
on an awful lot of stuff that wasn't his to begin with. And you know, Petrie calls him the great
usurper in his work, which I think is a good title because he yeah, his his labels on everything
like all those statues that of those faces, the ancient statue, everyone says they're of Ramsey's
because that he's chiseled his name onto them. And in almost in every case, you can see how the
technology involved in the writing. That's us, by the way. That's that's us. We came from Ramsey.
It's got it. It's obvious. Yeah, pretty much the technology in the writing doesn't match the
technology used to make the object itself. Like that's just I think that becomes an undeniable
fact that once you see that and you realize it and you start looking at a lot of these ancient
Egyptian artifacts, you can really notice it. And it's like, man, okay, so how much if we if we're
dating and relating everything by the writing, and we're putting these objects into the story of
history by the writing, and the writing doesn't remotely match the technology that's used to
make the object itself. How can we say that that object was made at the time of the writing, the
writing came later, right? So we don't know when these things were originally made. Let's look at
some of the the pottery. Oh, yeah, support. The pottery is fascinating. Like that's, that's another
thing that kind of looks like, again, it looks like it was made on a pottery wheel. It looks like
it was made of fucking clay on a pottery wheel. It's not some of these insanely hard rocks. The
vases. Yeah, the stone vases.
And this stone vases are one of like the most like the one of the most obvious smoking guns.
I think they are. Yeah, they're the small items are not as spectacular in some ways as the big stuff.
But I think they're absolutely fascinating because there's a real history here and there's
a tale of two industries that we can get into. So what you find you go to the museum,
Chara Museum, and I'm sure there's hopefully there's many more because they've got,
they found like tens of thousands of these. Hopefully there's many more in display in
the new museum when it opens up. But what's interesting about these is that you have a
collection of these stone vases. Now Petrie analyzed these and there's been a lot of work
put into them by other guys like Chris Dunn and Engineering Studies that show they were lathe
turned. They were certainly turned on some form of spinning tool. There was something that
carved them that was it was extremely sturdy that could carve extremely hard material. And then
we're not talking about just granite here, granite, schist, corundum, diorite, slate.
God, nice. There's all sorts of like there's all sorts of exotic types of stones that these
were made lapis lazuli, all sorts of stuff that these are made from and they a lot of them exhibit
like really precision made elements again, perfect symmetry. There's some of there's an example of
one of these vases that sort of stands on its tip like it's like it's an egg, right? It's balanced
perfectly. You have some of these stone vases that you got to remember the material wall. It's
very strong is also very can be very brittle. So it snaps easily. It's kind of like diamond or
scratch and cut thing because there's different materials in there. It's like fault lines in
the material. Yeah, there's different materials in it. But if you hit diamond, it can shatter. So
it's the same thing with some of the stone. Look at that thing right there. Go back.
The that's so that's the vase that stands on the tip. Yeah, on its tip.
This is a bothers no flat bottom. No flat bottom. Yeah, if you if you if you have it,
there's another angle on it where you can see it sort of standing on its tip.
And some of the material of these vases gets down to like the thickness of Petri called
it a stout playing card. So thin cardboard, they've shaved it down to that level. It's it's
there's all these remarkable elements to these vases. They're clearly the result of some
pretty sophisticated tooling and carving techniques that it's not pottery. Now pottery is
a different thing with clay. And that's used as part of, you know, defining civilizations. It's
with, you know, show me the pot sherds. That's all pottery we use them and the Egyptians use pottery.
What's interesting about these vases is that they all come from the very early according to the
mainstream story from the very earliest part of Egyptian history. And that's where they stop.
They don't make any more. So the vast majority of these vases were found under the steppe pyramid
of Joseph, which was the first, I think the first fair of the of the Fourth Dynasty.
40,000 plus of them found in the tunnels under there all stacked up a lot of it broken.
A lot of them busted up. That's a thin atop of that. Well, that's that's actually the
corundum base that's that's made out of a nine on the most scale, believe it or not.
And all that. So what are all those different like specs that are this crystal crystal inclusions?
Like, it's that's like chunks of different material, which do make it much more difficult.
Like when you're machining these, you're going from softer to harder material.
So it makes it really, really hard material to work in. Very challenging. And then hollowing
out the insides is a whole other deal. They also have these handles, which means they weren't all
turned on a lathe that has had another tool to create the shapes of the handles. But the history
of these things is like, they were all found in this one area. And then even at Sakara in the
museum, they say that it's likely that all of these vases were heirlooms from earlier
dynasties from the first or second dynasty, because when you go back and you look at first
or second dynasty tombs, we find things like the schist disk. And you know, you're familiar
with this. This is kind of a notorious thing. It looks like a propeller with a wheel around it.
Yeah, there's a picture of it in here in this section if we find it. But the schist disk is a
really remarkable artifact. Now it's been repaired. And it's been put back together. But
the challenge with the schist disk is in how you make it. Like it's these folded
blades or wings of schist on it. And it's very thin. But they found that in a first dynasty
tomb. So the tomb of Sabu, a prince, I think. And what's interesting is that these precision
objects, these tiny precision objects go back even further. There was one of the pictures up there.
That's the schist disk. Yeah. It's remarkable made out of stone, single piece carved that way. It's
been kind of repaired. What type of stone is it made of? It's schist. Oh, schist is the stone.
Yeah, it's a very brittle, but it's very hard stone. Insane how that was made. There's a few
really strange shaped objects like this that are in the museum. But you can go back into
pre dynastic times. And one I saw the image of one of my favorite little objects there,
which is a tube of lapis lazuli. Right. It's a hollow tube with a gold sheath.
It's been tube drilled out and hollowed out and lapis is a very hard stone. It's got a
gold sheath on it. And it's in a display case next to bone and bead ornaments. And really
see the bone thing next to it and the beads? It's like, oh, look, we found this. It's from
a pre dynastic site. It's a high technology object, but we're right next to all these beads and bone
stuff. And it's just the same. It's fine. They're just the same people made this, no worries.
And in fact, there's an even better example is there's a site,
Toshka, I think it's called. And it was one of the sites that was flooded when they
dammed the Nile. And so it was like buried, but they they they exploded in the 50s and 60s.
And there's a few photos of it at the Aswan Museum. And it was, and it's a site that they dug up.
They found human remains, a skeleton. They found some pottery. And then they found stone vases,
like these precision stone vases. And there's organic material in that burial that they carbon
date back to 15,000 BC. So 17,000 years old. And you still have these stone vessels
in a burial from 17,000 years ago. And it's on a site called Toshka. So what happens
is that, okay, so we've got all these stone vessels and they come to an Egyptian civilization
starts first dynasty. We've got, we find first dynasty barrels with stuff like the shisters.
We get up to Joseph, who must have collected all of them. And he buried himself with them.
And then we find them. And then after that period, nothing, like there is not anyone,
they never make vessels like that again. What happens is that with Joseph, there's a guy called
Imhotep, famous polymath, like genius Egyptian, people may have recognized the name. He designed
the steppe pyramid. He also analyzed these vases. And he came up with a method for trying to create
vases made from alabaster, which is white calcite. It's a much like a three or a four on the most
scale. Okay. And there's a scene on the wall that they found at Sakara that shows these guys making
these alabaster vases with like these rotating like, like little, like flint chisels and stuff.
And then sort of manufacturing these vases. Now, this scene on the wall is exactly what
the Egyptologists and all of the establishment people point to and say, see,
this is the Egyptians making these stone vessels. Like, no, that's, that's the Egyptians making the
alabaster vessels that were imitating them. And we have examples of these alabaster vessels. If
you flip through this, you'll find these white vases. And they're nothing like the stone vases.
They're imprecise. They're wobbly. They're like, they're, they're some of, they got good over time,
but they're nothing like the stone vessels and they're far, far softer material. And this is
what was used for canopic vessels going forward. Keep going. That's, that's granite.
I'll show you. I mean, that's the scene on the wall. Those are the vessels, right?
Okay. So those are the vessels that, that were made after the time of Imhotep and Joza and after
all of these stone vessels were basically collected. This is the type of stuff that you see from then
on. It's not like the only way you could describe the stone vases is perfect. That's the only way
you could describe them. These are are imperfect. They're imperfect. They're well done. They're great.
And they, they, the examples get, get better, but they make an alabaster is far softer and far
easier to work than these other types of stone. And these were the vessels that were then used
later on as, you know, canopic jars and stuff like that. For the organs, for the organs. What's
funny is that they, some of these stone vessels before Joza and stuff, they were used as canopic
vessels too for noblemen and things. But you see where they've got lids on them, right? Yes.
The stone vessels didn't have lids. So what they would do was the Egyptians would make like a
mud stopper. And it's like this cone of just like mud. It's these horrible looking thing.
And, and they found some, and all of the stone vessels, no one made lids for them. So it's like,
hang on, if you, if you're, if you're the Egyptians making the stone vessels to use as
canopic jars, you might make a lid for them because you certainly made lids for the alabaster
ones you made, but there's no lid. So they have all these like stoppers in the museum. You can
find like these, just these clay rough stoppers that they would put this little thing on top of
these jars to seal them up. And it's like proudly displayed next to the vases as like, hey, this is
what they did. I've got a picture of the stoppers in there somewhere. But it's just funny. It's like,
to me, it's like, what's, what's more likely, you know, that, that they had the ability in the
first and second dynasty to make all these things, even when the architecture of those periods don't
match any of the, any of the technology that we see, you know, in the stonework itself, or is
it more likely that they inherited them, that they found them, that, you know, because these things
also exist back as far as 15,000 BC from other burials. And we've certainly seen them on pre-denastic
sites. I think the inheritance scenario makes a lot more sense because it's, I hate these things
that just, you know, you don't just lose that technological capability to make them immediately.
And it's just, oh, well, now we're doing imperfect alabaster work. Those are the stoppers.
The stoppers that they use for the tops. Yeah. So it's, I think the, I think the vases are a huge
smoking gun. And once again, very difficult to find any to look at, to analyze. We, when you go down
beneath the step pyramid, as I've been down there, and there are thousands of pieces of shards of
these things, and some of them with the bases, that's the first time I've ever been able to handle
some of that material. And you can see perfect sort of lathe marks and how they were machined and
carved in all sorts of varieties of semi-translucent stone. It's incredible that that stuff's still
down there, but there's so much of it. They just don't care. And, you know, all this stuff in the
museum, they're not going to let, they don't seem to want to let any engineers or people look at them
and analyze them and do work on them. And I'm like, that's what's required. Like we should,
like Petrie does in his work. Like he, he looks at a lot of different pieces of toned granite. And
he's one of the first guys that talked about like these were turned on a lathe and they had some
unknown cutting tool that manufactured them. But again, they're the result of some pre-advanced
machining techniques. And here's another contradiction in the story of history is that
the Egyptians weren't supposed to have had the wheel at this point. So a lathe being a wheel mechanism,
they didn't have the wheel in the Old Kingdom. That's what they say for some of the big obelisks,
right? That they would have put two big wooden wheels on each side of them and roll them across
like a plateau or to another destination, like down a hill. Yeah. Yeah. They say some stuff like that.
Those things are 2,000 tons. Well, so well, they have, right, because it's not just Egypt. I mean,
this is like the, one of them, the, the explanations for like the, the trilothon at Baalbek in Lebanon,
for example, the Roman temple of Jupiter has, you know, you've got three 900 ton stones,
single piece stones in the foundation for this, for this, for this Roman temple that is a Roman
temple that was built on top of it. And then in the quarry, you've got, you've got a couple of
stones that are like 2,000 tons. One of them is 2,000 tons. That's single piece limestone block.
It's like a three story tall piece of block. It's insane. Yeah. The pictures of the, of the,
well, there's this, this, pardon me, the stone of the pregnant woman is the famous one. And then
they recently discovered another one sort of off to the side of it and underneath it and excavating
it. Yeah. And that's supposed to be even bigger, like 2,000 tons, that one. And they think that the
Romans probably never even knew they were there. So there's no evidence, no record of any, there's no,
okay, that's the stone of the pregnant woman, right? And they're standing on the bigger one.
And it's still on the bottom. It's still connected to the bedrock. I don't know if that one is.
Okay. I think the one beneath it may be, but it's also a worked stone. But the one beneath it's
kind of bigger. Like on it's, the guys are standing on it. Like that's a, that's a single block as
well. So the crazy thing about this is that like, like, I'm sure in today, if we wanted to, we could
move that. Yeah, sure. But it would be, it would not make any sense. It wouldn't be cost effective.
It wouldn't be practical. Right. Like we would never, in the first place, never want to make
anything out of that material. So like it's just, it's like, it had to have been, it had to have
been practical to use this stuff. Like what was their reasoning for using, to carve these giant
structures out of bedrock like this? I mean, it must have been extremely, it must have been no problem
at all for them to move it. They must have been able to do it. I think that's the conclusion you
come to. It had to have been easy in one way. And you're right. We wouldn't do things this way. Like
if you look at, and this is the another argument against geopolymer is that we use geopolymer
today, like bricks and anything like that. But it's like one mold produces a million bricks.
And you have a lot of examples in Egypt of like every stone on the pyramids a different shape and
size. But that's how we would do it. We would do geopolymers. We wouldn't make stuff out of big
single pieces like this. And you certainly wouldn't do it because it's easier. It's anything, but like
it's far more difficult to do it this way. But the reasoning for it, I don't know. I mean,
I don't know what to say other than they could. Certainly there's benefits to it. Like things
become much more earthquake proof. They last longer. I don't know if that was an intent for them.
I do think in Egypt in particular, there was something to the type of stone that was being
employed. Like there's a particular mixture of stones, basalt, granite, limestone, white calcite
in particular, those three or four, and they have different electromagnetic properties,
which is a whole sort of can of woo. And we I've got a video where we do a bit of experimenting
on it with putting high voltages through these different types of stone. And you see granite
kind of acts like a conductor. Sorry, it's like an insulator limestone acts like a conductor,
basalt somewhere in between. And you, you see those particular combinations of stones on a lot
of these old kingdom sites. And you see a lot of like granite cased in limestone or limestone cased
in basalt. And there's, there's like melted stone in some places that looks like there's been through
all this heat cycling. There's a few really interesting implications that a few places that
we kind of explore. And it's like, don't know, you know, it's like in the layouts of some of these
things, if some of them make me think about things like circuit boards and logical circuitry.
And I don't know. And one of the, there's a good example when it comes to technology
like this, it's like, what are you talking about? Is there like electrical currents flowing through
it? Well, we don't, you know, it's difficult to define the things that we don't know. So one of
these, there was a discovery recently, I use this as an example in a couple of different podcasts
about, about a different form of electromagnetic wave propagation. So everything today works on
this Hertzian wave theory, right? So antennas, electric wires, everything in the world today,
we transmit through a wire or we use an antenna, it's like an unshielded wire,
it uses Hertzian wave theory. Well, there's, there's another theory of electromagnetic wave
propagation called Xenic surface waves. So there's, there was a theory that was proposed
a long time back and it was shot down as not being like the math on it didn't work out or
whatever. There's a reason why it got dismissed. And then some people started looking into it
again, perhaps Tesla. In fact, it was most likely Tesla that looked into this, that basically says
that instead of, you know, using a conductor or something to transmit signals or energy,
you can use the interface between the surface and the air more or less is how it works.
And turns out this theory actually works. And this may well be what Tesla was doing with
his wireless transmission tower that he built at Wardenclyffe on the East coast. And he was sending
like transmission, transmitting like electricity and signal wirelessly. It wasn't through the air,
it was using something called Xenic surface waves. So what they've done, there was a, there was a,
a company who I think has since gone bankrupt called Visive Technologies, VIZIV, who built
basically a Tesla tower in Texas. You can find pictures of it and they used it as a global
test site. And so what it would do was you could take a receiver and put it anywhere on the planet
and this surface, this, this, this tower in Texas, their global test site could send electricity and
signal to it anywhere in the world using Xenic surface waves over the planet. Surface waves.
Yeah. It's like a surface wave. It's like, it's imperceptible, but it's like it, I don't know,
all the science is a bit deep for me. I, I know it uses the interface between the surface and the air.
And it's basically a method of transmitting without loss signal and power to anywhere on the
planet. And this is what Tesla was doing as well, because that tower they built in Texas
looks just like the Tesla tower. And the theory all checks out. Now, I think they went bankrupt
because the regulatory environment probably is very slow to change. And the interesting story
behind Visive is also that they were founded by naval intelligence guys, these old generals that
retired from the same, the same group of people who took all Tesla's stuff when he died and they
classified it. So it's like, hmm, maybe these guys were noodling on this for like a couple
decades in the, in the military, and then decided to start a company and try and change the world.
But, but it would enable like using this technology, you can put nuclear power plants in geologically
sustainable, like stable areas, you can put solar farms in the desert, you don't need wires,
you don't need transmission. So it uses natural materials to transmit this signal. So it's,
my point is, it's a whole different way of thinking about electricity and signal propagation,
right? We never would have thought that we could do that without wires or without
that stuff. But once we discovered it, then our perception changes. So when we look at the past,
it's possible that we're a caveman looking at an iPhone, you know, like we might just be,
that's a black piece of plastic, or it's just breaks when I do it, it's useless.
But you and I know what it is, because we know what wireless networking is, what a cell phone
signal is, what a camera and a microphone are, and what a touchscreen is. We have the context to
explain and understand what we're looking at. And I think in a lot of cases, when we look at the
past and at sites like this, and it's like, I think we'd lack some of the context to truly explain
it and understand it, you know, it wouldn't be possible for there to be any evidence for tools
like this to create these kinds of things, right? Has there been any sort of evidence found of the
tools that were used to make these precision objects? No, so that's one of the big arguments
against it is that there's like, show me the tools, right? There are no tools as far as we know,
and there's a few reasons for this. We weren't made of stone. Well, there were probably something
else. Yeah. So one of the things people have to remember when you look at the past is anything
that, it's like a miracle when we find anything made of metal that's original. It's so, so,
so rare because metal was very valuable. It was prized. Like it would, stuff was taken and melted
down and worked on, turned into weapons and whatever. And everything, every scrap of metal
was taken from these sites a long time ago. So it's really rare. So like things like the
Antikythera mechanism, which is this crazy thing they found in a shipwreck. The only reason we
found it is because it was in a shipwreck and no one else dug it up. What was it? You have not
heard of the Antikythera mechanism? No. No, it's crazy. It's a real interesting story. There's
like, it's a mechanism. It's like this very complicated device that would basically determine,
you can look up the Antikythera mechanism. It's a very complicated device that sort of mapped the
solar system and time and the orbits of planets. And it was made up of like hundreds of different
dials and wheels and elliptical gear sets inside it. And it's, they've x-rated, they've looked at it
and it's like scratching their head, like don't really know where it came from or where, or what
it was for. But it's like a very precise, like cosmic calendar, almost timekeeping thing. And
they found it in a shipwreck off Greece, like in a Grecian shipwreck with a bunch of other
artifacts. And it's been eroded, but they've managed to sort of figure it out and put it back
together. And it must have been one of many of these types of things. Yeah, that's it there.
And if you look at the way they've x-rayed this thing is insanely complicated. Patrice
Poillard gets into it in his documentary, Builders of the Ancient Mysteries. Great documentary.
Great guy. Yeah, it's a real mystery. Like it's one of those out of place artifacts that has a
much higher level of technology than we sort of credit the ancient world. And they were able to
put it back together and use it? No, I haven't used it. This is what it looks like. But by x-raying
it and by doing other scans of it, they've kind of been able to figure out what's inside it and
where all the cogs are. But it's an insanely complicated device. And you've got to think
it's probably one of many. I mean, somehow found out that this could map the galaxy. Yeah, it depicts
like all bits of planets and there's all sorts of stuff about it. I do want to do a video exploring
it in some more depth at some point. But my point being is that there was probably lots of those
things and they made a metal and they're just gone. The only reason we found that one is because
it was on the bottom of the ocean. Right. And so metal disappears when it comes to the tools.
The other thing is we don't leave tools at job sites either. Like so. Valuable. Valuable tools
are valuable. They get taken away. And the third thing for me is like, I'm not necessarily sure
we need the tools because we have the result of the tools. This is supposedly the rebuilt version.
That might be it. How do you say it again? Antikythera. Antikythera mechanism. Yeah,
I think that's how you say it. Okay. Holy shit. But we have, you know, we have the
insane looking. It is, isn't it? It's, yeah, there's, you dive into it. There's like,
these watchmakers that are just scratching their heads. It's sort of like, you know,
we've invented nothing new. Right. But yeah, we've, we have the results of the tools. That's,
that's the point I like to make. It's like, look, we've got, we see the signatures of the tools
and we have the objects that the tools made that there must have been tools that made them
because you cannot show me that you can make these objects with these primitive,
these primitive methods that you say they do. And that's, that's where this whole argument
comes around to like, you know, the burden of proof here is on the people that claim
they know how it was done. Like it's not, I'm, my point of view on this is I mostly am saying that
you can't do this. You haven't proven that you can do this with the primitive tools.
Right. And therefore other things must have been necessary and there's implications on that.
I'm not saying that I know how it was done. I don't know what tools used to make them.
I am very convinced that it wasn't pounding stones, flint chisels and copper, copper tools.
You know what it wasn't. I know what it wasn't. And because there's, and the burden of proof is
really on the experimentalists that want to say that it was. And, and as I said to you before,
there's, we haven't made a single cut. We've not blocked, we've not made a single artifact. We've
not cut all the way through one single, you know, big granite block using these methods. We've done a
few test cuts here and there. And there are a few people that, you know, replicate one little
element of the problem and then claim victory. Right. But the, the problem is, is many fold.
You have to, you have to include the most difficult aspects of, of these objects,
which may include things like relative geometry, like how do you keep this face that's 11 foot
away from this face in exactly the same plane, stuff like that. Like there's a lot of challenges
to it. And those are the ones that need to be addressed to, to I think really debunk this and
say, oh yeah, okay, you can use copper chisel to make this stuff. I just, yeah, it doesn't make any
sense. And furthermore, every engineer that I talk to and I've taken to these places, the people that
know, just, just shake their head at it. Like there's, there's just no way. Like it becomes very
obvious. And unfortunately, it's just not the engineers aren't the people that we listen to
as experts on this anymore. Like in the mainstream, it's the archaeologists and the Egyptologists,
but I wish we would spend more time listening to engineers and actual experts.
It seems like a civilization of that kind of intelligence and advancement. It doesn't seem,
it seems like they'd be smart enough to avoid some sort of
astro astronomical cataclysm from an asteroid or a comet.
I mean, maybe they're trying to warn us too. That's, that's the other thing that's really
interesting about this is that, you know, maybe they saw it coming and maybe they built monuments
as a warning. There seems to be some, some validity to this. Like there is Martin Sweatman's
done, he's a, he's a doctor in Scotland and he's a University of Edinburgh.
He's looked at Gobekli Tepe as some sort of a cosmic warning sign, like that it was marking,
it's, it's, it's stone circles and the animals and the constant and the depictions on it represent
constellations and, and cosmically significant time. So he sort of, he's got a whole book written
about it where he, he's pointing out that it's possible that they were actually, they're telling
us about a period of time when this happened. And it may be possible that they're actually
trying to, that these might be messages passed through town, down through time to warn us.
This thinks itself might be something like that. It might have been built as a marker pointing at
the age of Leo on the horizon. This is like part of Boval's theory about the, the, the,
the Orion correlation and the Sphinx aiming at the age of Leo when, according, according to that
procession of the equinoxes circle that maybe that's was, it was a message coming at us from
that time as well. What is that? What is it going on with the, with the Sphinx? It's pointing at.
Well, so if you, if you go with the dating of, if you go with the Sphinx being a lion originally,
for sure its head was recarved at some point. But if it was a lion, then, then it would have been
pointing at when the sun rose on the solstice directly at, it would have been in the age of
like the house of Leo 10,500 years ago. So right around the younger drys period. So it would have
been lined up with the Leo, the lion as a constellation. It would have been built 10,500 years ago.
Yeah. So it would have been at the right constellation. And that, remember that's the
dating that shocks given it due to erosion analysis and everything. But that also happens
to line up with the constellation of Leo for the age of the, the, the procession of the equinoxes.
We would have been in the age of Leo when that happened. So there's some suggestion that maybe
that's, but isn't that significant 2000 years after 2000 years after the younger drys?
Was it before or after? It was, it was, it was right on the younger drys.
Younger drys was like 12,000, right? 12,800 to 11,600 years ago. So that's, that's the,
that's the period. Yeah. So 12,800 to 11,600 years ago is like the period of the younger drys.
And there's a spike before and after. So I think the Sphinx with Leo sits in there somewhere.
Before or after the younger drys? I think either during or just after.
Okay. But, but again, it's possible that the Sphinx is even older. I've heard Robert Schock say
that too. Like it could be vastly older than that still, but the point is that maybe when you say
a global civilization like that might have been able to see it coming or dodge it. I mean,
I don't think we're only just now starting to develop and think about the technology involved
in like maybe deflecting an asteroid coming at us. I think we're decades away from actually
being able to do something about one. I mean, we care more about getting the gold off of it.
We probably would. Yeah. Let's let it hit us and we'll deal with it afterwards. It's full of platinum.
Yeah, maybe, or maybe it'd be like, maybe Nancy Pelosi will go up there and
like get some gold. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or else you'll know it's coming and then
trade some stocks and make the profits. Yeah. Asteroid mining company is going up.
Could you imagine? Paul. Buy some stocks. Yeah. Let him out of Jalf's DUI yet. I don't know.
But yeah, I don't know. But there's some sick, like a cycle to this thing too. It does seem like
the further back in time you go, it seems like every, there's almost a periodicity to cataclysm
and we're approaching it now, like a 12,000 year cycle almost that's, that seems to keep
happening. So who knows whether or not it's a torrid meteor stream or it's a sun,
it's a sun explosion thing. What about volcanoes? Volcanoes for sure. Volcanoes can cause like
proper amount of volcanoes. There's been some speculation. My buddy Matt at Ancient Architects
channel has been on kind of a mainstream tear lately and he's kind of been poking at the
idea that maybe it was volcanoes that caused the younger drys and not a common impact. Like
there's tons of volcanic eruptions that happened around that time. One thing I've been wanting
to point out to him is you know what causes tons of volcanic eruptions is cosmic impacts.
Oh really? Yeah. So cosmic impacts actually cause earthquakes, volcanism, tidal waves,
hurricanes, massive weather events. Like they're almost like we can't do anything about those
events on their own, but there's one thing that kind of is the source of most of the really big
extinction events and that's cosmic impacts. And that's the one thing that we stand a remote
chance of actually doing something about if we really bent our back to it.
Don't they say that the Yellowstone volcano erupts like every 600,000 years?
Something like that. And the last time it erupted was right exactly 600,000 years ago from now.
Yeah, that would be a bad news. It would certainly be bad news for the east coast
this side because the winds, it would blow from there for it hit this side of the country,
the east coast I think a lot. I don't know if Yellowstone on its own would bring down civilization.
It would certainly slow us down. It would be a tremendous bad news day. But I don't know if it
on its own is quite big enough to fully bring down civilization. Probably be close. But yeah,
I know that they're saying that about Yellowstone. It's an interesting site. In fact,
you think about Yellowstone, I know Randall talked about this on your podcast too, but it was what
spewed up all the basalt that made up eastern Washington state. So that wound in the mantle
of the earth that's spewing up this material is what was responsible millions and millions of
years ago for all the basalt plateaus of eastern Washington state. And then that's kind of like
the crust has shifted since then. And now it's over on Yellowstone in Montana. And then yeah,
but if that goes, it'll make some noise. Yeah, absolutely. And that makes me think about like
if we were to get wiped out by a volcano or a cosmic impact right now, there would be no evidence of
us. It'd be very little. It's a fun, it's not fun. Except for Mount Rushmore and Mount Rushmore,
the Hoover Dam, the Hoover Dam, Suez Canal, like Panama Canal, you might, yeah. So you might
eventually go, you know, thousands of years into the next civilization. And then they finally
develop enough engineering capability to go, holy crap, somebody dug a ditch between the oceans,
you know, like the, right? And stuff. Yeah. And there wouldn't be much left. Yeah. Hoover Dam,
maybe Mount Rushmore, those were their gods. Those were the gods of that time. Yeah. I don't know.
For sure, within a couple generations, I mean, if something like that happening,
technology goes away so fast, you'd have like people sitting around campfires telling stories
about cell phones and plasma TVs. It'd be like a magical device that we can, we could talk across
the world. Maybe there'd be people replicating it and making little shiny black rocks that they
would hold up and try and use ceremony to capture the capability and technology, which I think is
exactly what happened in ancient Egypt too. They were trying to use ceremony and religion to capture
the significance and, you know, technology that happened. They might have had some understanding
of when the pyramid worked, it did this. So we're just going to like dance around it for a while
with fire and yell at it and maybe it'll turn on again. Do you think that civilization that built
the pyramids, the builders, do you think they somehow found a way off the planet?
Here's the easy window for people to discredit you.
Can't trust him. He believes in aliens.
So I would not put it out of the realm of possibility and I know this gets into another
topic that you're interested in, which is the moon. Yes. Because, you know, I wouldn't, I can't
discount it. Like I just think that, you know, it's possible that there was a split at some
point in the past that some people split and who knows where they went. You can't rule it out.
Like along the length of time in the universe and the distance of space, like there's all these
things are very possible. But in terms of our civilization, sure, within the last hundred,
several hundred thousands of years, we could have developed to a point where, yeah, that
type of transport and travel was possible and it was just wiped out. Like again,
if our civilization was gone 100,000 years later, there'd be nothing left. We just wouldn't know.
There'd be no nothing left. It'd barely even be, I can imagine even much of Mount Rushmore.
There'd be some of it left, I guess. But in 100,000 years, who knows what would be left?
Yeah, it's hard to, you can't rule it out. Well, I think Randall said that if we were,
there were to be some sort of cataclysm now. He said it would take, I think, less than 500 years
for there to be absolutely no evidence of like the Empire State Building, for example. Yeah.
It would just be, it would be nothing, dust. Yeah, very little left. And then, yes,
this slow erosion and process of time for after that to get rid of the few stone things that we
did make. Yeah, the Hoover Dams and the Mount Rushmore. In terms of our specific technique,
our civilization, yeah, gone in centuries. So like if you look at the depicted version of what
like aliens look like with the big heads and little arms, like you would think that that would be us
and the future. So could that have been like, if the civilization that we used to be before the
Younger Dryas had advanced to the level where they could move massive stones like that and create
objects like this, and it was uninterrupted by a cataclysm, it seems like that's where we would
end up. Yeah, I think our long term solution for and survival depends on our ability to ultimately
get off the planet. And that would drive our evolution 100% when you spend time. I mean,
it's not, it wouldn't be easy. Maybe not even get off the planet. I'm not even saying like get off
the planet, but maybe like to evolve and to become a better, to become a better species that doesn't
want to, you know, fight over land and kill each other for resources. You know, we'd have to get
rid of our genitals, our reproductive organs, and we wouldn't have to think, use that part of our
brain anymore. We wouldn't think that way anymore. We'd only think logically. We think like machines,
yep, get rid of, yep, get rid of all the emotion and our frontal cortex being like,
what is it, our emotional centers in our brains being a little too big? It's a Christopher
Hitchens quote that I love on that, that he gets into. But yeah, I don't think we're the,
we're not the end result of evolution. That's not going to stop. And maybe our role here is
really just to give birth to the next phase of human evolution to like birth, whether it's,
it's could be AI generated. It could be some hybrid transhumanism type of thing that gets us
to that space. But it does, you know, there's a, there's a good line from the expanse. I love that,
that show and those books, but it's like, at one point, the, I think Miller, the detective who's
questioning whether or not the universe really wants us out there. Like if we were actually would
be any good for us for the rest of the universe, if we got out there, given how warlike and
crazy we are as a species of stupid stuff we get up to. I do think, yeah, it seems like that's the
if, if we were to continue to evolve and to get to that point, then yeah, maybe that's,
that's the type of thing it would be. It would be either using artificial means to,
to limit our emotional response to stuff and our, our, what is effectively human nature,
the tribal instinct to the us and the them. And, and this, you know, we have these, these vestiges
of our, our past that are still part of us and part of our culture today. And a lot of these
elements of society moves forward at a much faster rate than, than we ourselves can sort of do
internally and with our instincts and stuff. So yeah, maybe, maybe that's the answer.
It seems more probable that it's us than something from distant galaxy, like thousands of light
years away. Could be us, could be us from the past, could be us from the future, you know,
from the future. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Could be us like the whole
year from the past, which could also be the future when you're able to travel,
traverse time. I think the lineage, the linear thing, aspect of time disappears. Like,
yeah, the faster you go, it's like that movie and everything everywhere, all at once,
but just came out. Yeah. The faster you go, the less, the less, the slower time passes,
right? So yeah, you could spend, you could spend millions of years in our time,
zipping back and forth and only a short amount of time in yours or the opposite.
Right. In a lot of ways. So yeah, I don't know. It's, it could be, that's, I think there's
unlimited mystery and speculation you can make on some of these things.
But yeah, for sure, there's, I think our current version of history is really limited
and just book ended and it's probably time that we changed it, you know,
opened up our minds a little bit to some other possibilities, because that's,
that's honestly where I think is one of the things that drew me in is that's where science
has taken us. Like we know from a lot of these other adjacent fields of science that
some other stuff has happened and it should be affecting our view of history.
And of our role, maybe our role here on the planet as a species too.
That's one of the things I wrapped up Randall's podcast with was I was talking to him about
like, what do we do? Like, what do we do to preserve our technology, our species,
whatever? Like if we do end up in a Noah's Ark situation, like what do we do to preserve
what we have right now? Because hard drives aren't going to make it.
Let's build a monument on the moon to start with. Let's go to the moon. Let's get an outpost on the
moon. Just as a first fallback safety measure. Yeah. And then figure out Mars and everywhere else.
Like, yeah, ultimately, in long term, we have to get off the planet. Like it's the cosmic shooting
gallery analogy, right? It's, it's, it's whether or not it's our destiny as a species, I don't know.
But if that's what we want it to be, then we do have to get off the planet. And that's why I think
this stuff's important. Like the fact that if more people realize that that we've been through
cataclysms that we're so vulnerable as a civilization and as a species, for that matter,
that it might incur. And if that was encoded into the zeitgeist and just the consciousness of
humanity itself, because we taught everybody that message from an early age, then maybe, maybe
there'd be a way to change our priorities, spend a little less money on tanks and bullets, maybe
a little bit more money on collaborative space exploration and bending out, because we're at
a very unique point in our evolution. Like where it's such a fragile civilization, like another
rock from space could end it, super volcano could end it. But we're at a point now where we actually
have the ability to address some of these issues. We can, we can really make headway on some of
these challenges. And this, this opportunity may not last forever, but we should, I think we don't
do the best job of sort of grasping those opportunities as a species and, and trying to
really drive that thing forward. Cause yeah, ultimately it's like the long-term solution
and survival of our species depends on us eventually getting off the planet, like spreading
out, not even, not always leaving or anything, but, but we should be spreading out. Like that's,
that should be, in my opinion, a higher priority than it currently is.
Yeah. What do you think about us getting our technology somehow onto the moon
for future, just in case it's like a failsafe? I think it's a great idea. I think we should be
going back to the moon or getting to it. I don't think it's weird. Like even the Elon Musk doesn't
even talk about the moon. Yeah, I don't understand it. Like, honestly, it seems like it's like,
stop the Mars stuff. Let's, let's, let's test this stuff. And in fact, the moon makes so much
more sense to establish an outpost there because that, that is a far more efficient location for
launching like intra solar missions. You don't have to fight gravity. You just like, you get
stuff to the moon. You can put together a mission that goes to Mars with much, much less resources
than, and do it. You can test all of your systems. We're close enough where you can rescue people,
maybe. The movie with Brad Pitt, where his dad works on a spaceship that's like off of Saturn,
I believe. One of the moons of like Titan or your own. No, he was on Neptune. Neptune. Oh,
that's right. His dad was doing research on Neptune and he had to, they had to go,
he went to the moon and then he launched to rocket off the moon to get to Mars.
That's how you do. I think that's the long, and most, that's what we would do. You'd
launch it off the moon. You just don't have to, don't have to overcome that much gravity,
spend that much fuel trying to do it. Yeah, so weird. Why are we glossing right over the moon?
Well, it's supposed to go back, right? Was it? What's the name of the Artemis, the moon missions
that are supposed to go back soon? I can't remember when, but I really hope we do. Like,
I think the moon's the place to go. Like, that's like step one. Mars is great and all, but like,
let's go to the moon. Like the moon, the moon's the place to really establish an outpost, I think,
first. And then, and then, you know, really, that's becomes the launching pad for everything else.
I, you know, I'd really love the, I've talked about the expanse into that, the books and the show,
the expanse, you heard of it? I never heard of it. Oh, it's a great show. So it's a book that's,
it's a series of books, really popular Amazon, or Amazon ended up taking it over after sci-fi
created the first few seasons. But wonderful books, but it explores kind of the,
because a lot of sci-fi is like way out there. And we're like, you know, into the galaxy and
everything. And this is, this is more like, well, no, we've been on Mars and the moon and the, you
know, the asteroid belt and the moons of Jupiter and Saturn for, you know, a couple hundred years.
And it explores the political aspects of like, well, what happens when you're born on Mars and
you, your children are born on Mars and you're still like part of paying homage to Earth and
you're like an outpost of Earth at that point, you become a Martian and now you want to be
independent Martian. And so it's all these different factions in the galaxy, all the
Belters, the people that live in the belt, the asteroid belt that, that have evolved
differently because they're in such low G environments. And they're like nothing,
doing nothing, but sort of a resource outpost for Earth. And then they sort of react. And there's
all these wars that get for it. It's like a really interesting exploration of that, of what would
be a step in between the whole like, well, now we're a galactic civilization. No, once we spread
out into the solar system, and once you start having generations of people being born on these
different places, all of a sudden, they don't know what it means to be from Earth. They're not,
they're not a human like the rest of us. They're different. They've evolved differently because
they're, you know, all these generations of low G environments and stuff. And it's like, well,
now we want to be our own thing out here. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Good show. What is it on?
It's called the Expanse. I think it's all of it's available on Amazon Prime because
they took it over after sci-fi dropped it or whatever. But yeah. What is this August 29th?
2022. Is that supposed to be the Artemis date? Yeah. Is it planning an uncrewed test flight to
the moon? Yeah. So I think it's the Artemis program was the first one. Now we're developing like a
super heavy rocket. And the idea is that we want to send people back to the moon, which would be
nice because we haven't really had that capability since, well, the sixties. We just burned all the
plans apparently. We were talking about last night with the solar eclipse, how a certain time
of the year, the size of the moon is perfectly, perfectly covers the size of the sun. Well,
it is. That's one of the weird things about the moon. There's many, many, many, many strange things
about the moon. One of them is that it is both 400 times smaller than the sun and 400 times closer
than it. So that when we have these eclipses, they're exactly the same size in the sky from earth.
That's insane. It is insane. There's a lot of insanity about the moon. If people are interested,
I can recommend a book called Who Built the Moon? Who built the moon? Who built the moon? Wonderful
book. And it sort of gets into a lot of the anomalies about the moon. It's one people don't
realize it's like very unique. We've never, ever, ever observed another sort of planet-moon
relationship like we have with our moon. And the fact of the matter is life wouldn't exist on this
planet without the moon there, without the moon creating intertidal zones. There's all sorts
of anomalies about the moon itself. It's 25 percent the size of the earth, but about,
I think, four or five percent its mass. So it's vastly lighter and yet stronger at the same time,
too. There's a really strange dynamic. Yeah, stronger. It's stronger. Yeah. So it's like,
it should be deforming at a different rate based on its density and the gravitational pull that's
exerted on it by the planet. In fact, there's all these gravitational anomalies on the moon.
We've detected like different levels of gravity in different places on the moon. But what is
interesting about the moon is that because there's no atmosphere, we can see the craters that are on
it, right? And some of the craters are massive. Like they're like 400 kilometers across,
but they only ever go to a certain depth. They only ever go like, I think it's a couple of
kilometers deep like that. It's like, we know the mechanics of like crater dynamics, right? So
we can see this on the earth and on other planets when stuff hits and it's bigger,
it's going to go deeper. On the moon, everything stops at this one uniform depth, no matter how
big the crater is. It's as if it's like this, there's this softer material on top for a couple
of kilometers and then it's some hard shell that it just bounces off and it just nothing
penetrates. I think it's like two or three kilometers or something. But there's this
really interesting study on the crater depths. No matter the size of the crater, it only ever goes in
so deep. What happens to the rocks that hit it? Typically on the earth, they go underneath the
crater, right? Right. I don't think we've ever gone up there and dug into sea. But just from our
observation of the moon, we can tell that these craters, no matter even the biggest ones, only
go a certain depth. Like they just, they don't penetrate into the moon any further. It's like
got a shell around it or something. It's really strange.
Tungusca is the dinosaur. No, Tungusca is 908. That was the
Siberia. Siberia. What was the one that killed the dinosaurs?
Well, they call it the, I think it was the Jurassic Triassic or the, that was
Chicxaclub or whatever. Yeah. I don't know how to pronounce it. Right. It's like in the
gulf, the bottom part of the gulf, like Cancun or your Cancun. Yucatan. Yucatan. Yeah. Is there,
have they ever tried to like dig into that and like find pieces of that? I don't know. I don't
think so. I think you, I think you're just looking at the remnants of some. Is the thing still solid
under the ground? It depends on the material. We don't know. Like it would be so far,
if there's a core of that, it would be so deep and so buried in sediment and probably at the
bottom of the damn ocean, you'd have to drill way down to try and find it. I don't know if anyone's
attempted it, but it's, they don't always leave a trace like that. I think as Randall was saying
on your podcast, it depends on the density of the object as it comes in, whether or not there's
a core left over. Right. There should, I mean, there could be. It's iron. There could be. If
there's iron or it's, yeah, it's like mostly iron. Yeah. It would be, it should, there should be
some left over. Certainly we've got plenty of like meteoric iron fragments and cores that we
find around the place, but it'd be cool to find something big from that. But yeah, I don't know.
I have no idea. I don't know if they've dug down on it. Yeah. The thing about the moon is insane.
Like it's, it's, it's pretty fucking wild when you start to dig into it. I mean,
it gets pretty like tin foil hat, but. Well, it does, but there's no good explanation for
how the moon got there. Like it's very unique. We don't, the mainstream explanation for how the
moon got there is very suspect and is admittedly very suspect by the people that even come up with
it. Like they're like, yeah, this is kind of the way we think it kind of come. Yeah. It's the double
big whack theory. I think I was explained to you. It's, it's this idea that because the moon is so
lightweight and less dense, it's only like, it's like surface material from planet earth is what
what it's formed of is what they think. So, you know, something splattered into a primordial
earth hard enough, like a proto planet or something hit us to take off this huge amount of mass, like,
well, volume of mass, not, not specifically mass, but only surface mass, like not because
people don't realize like earth is iron. Like we are, we are 40, I think the most abundant element
on the planet is iron. It's like 47% iron. Like we are, we are, we are hard rock in space. Like
the surface stuff, not so much as not that much, not as much iron out here, but obviously the moon's
not made of iron. So something hits the earth really hard, takes that much material out into an
orbit around the planet. And eventually it correlates and sort of forms the moon as it is,
but that impact into earth would have left it spinning at a high rate,
such that it needed another impact from exactly the right direction and exactly the right speed
hitting earth at exactly the right point to slow it down to our current rotational speed and,
and dynamics. So it's, it's what they call the double big whack theory.
Double big whack theory. Yeah. So two big whacks into the earth is, is how they, they, they approximate
billions of years ago, of course, that, that this somehow happened. And it's not a very strong,
like people like, eh, the probability is super, super low for that possibility to happen. There's,
they don't really know this, that most of the people that dig into the moon get to the point
where like just scratching the head going, we don't really know how it got here. But if you were to
design a system to support life, if you were to create an environment to support life, then
it's pretty perfect. Like you don't, it doesn't get any more perfect almost. Like we need the moon.
We need the earth in the specific location it is. We need the tilt of the earth to give us that
seasonality. The moon gives us those intertidal zones with its, with its gravity and, and those
are the areas on the planet where life first emerged and evolved. It's, it's remarkable how
necessary the moon is for life on the planet. And it's almost as if you were designing like a little,
little test kit for life or habitat for life. You absolutely need the moon there. And you know,
there's, yeah, it's, this is another analogy on an extension of the whole techno technology
discussion. It's like as technology evolves, then we talk about space flight and stuff before.
And I imagine now we go to space, right? We have to use spaceships and small things and
lightweight composite materials because we're trying to overcome forces of gravity and nature.
But let's assume that sometime in the distant future, we have fundamental control over the
forces of nature, gravity. We can control gravity. We can control the elements like the,
those fundamental forces of nature. What does a spaceship stops to look like a spaceship at some
point? And it might start to look like something like a small planet. Like if you can control
gravity in the forces of nature to the point where you can create whatever you want.
If you were to create a spaceship or an environment to go into space with, it might start to look a
lot like a small planet rather than or a moon. That's not a moon. Like, or a moon like,
then it, then it would a spaceship, something that can contain an atmosphere, something that
has its own gravity. Like if you, that's, it's like this projection of technology way into the
future. But that's what it starts to look more organic. It swings back around from like these
composite materials to organic materials. And maybe that's what things start to look like.
So again, in that vastness of space and that the distance of time across billions of years,
who's to say that the moon wasn't like, like created and flown here and put in place to like
support like, Hey, this planet's in the right zone. Let's give it the thing that it needs to
create life and we'll squirt some DNA at it. And then, you know, billion years later, here we are.
Right. I don't know. It's, it's, it's, you can't, again, can't rule it out. And it's
interesting thing to think about. And I think with the moon, it's almost, it almost becomes
a more likely scenario than there's, than the current scenario of like, well, there's double
big whack. It's like, are we, is that what you just said? Is that, is it more probable that
that's what happened? Or is it more probable that we are just a flame in a ever never ending sea of
darkness? Right. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think we're that. I don't think we're that. I don't think
I'm fairly convinced that, that in terms of life, I think we've sort of, although we don't have
evidence for it directly, but mathematically, I think we've proven that for sure, the conditions
for life exist in lots of places. Like the Kepler missions pretty much ended that story. Like,
we figured out that, all right, there's plenty of, plenty of planets orbiting,
plenty of stars in plenty of habitable zones. Right. That, that this, the conditions for liquid
water, blah, blah, blah, that we need for life, it certainly exists in a lot of places.
And we're almost, we're on the verge of finding signs of life on Mars and this and that. We're
like, oh, maybe we found something. It's like, for damn sure, if you find it on two planets in
one solar system, then it's got to be everywhere, whether it's advanced or not. It's another question,
but you know, again, it's like, we are the result of a, a blink of an eye in the span of time that
we think the universe has been here. And it may be a lot older than that yet. We don't know. I think
there's some questionable evidence behind Big Bang and stuff like this, but
the cosmic microwave background, but you know, it's just, if you go billions of years in either
direction, it's like civilizations can rise and fall and go away. I mean, who knows. I just think
there's, we're not the only thing that there's floating around in here convinced of it. So
whether or not we find out about that in our lifetime, it's another question. But
well, if there's anyone that's doing the hard work to try to ask the questions, it's you. And
dude, I'm thankful for people like you and for you, for doing all the work that you do and going
to Egypt and all these different places and documenting it and making new documentaries
are fucking great. And, you know, I speak for millions of people clearly, but
let people know that are listening and watching where they can find more of your work, where
they can follow you, support you, all of it. Thank you, Danny. Yeah. UnchartedX.com is the
main place. My website, you can also find me on YouTube. It's youtube.com slash C slash
UnchartedX. All of my social medias are in all of my videos at the bottom and in the description.
They're also on my website, but I'm available on all those social platforms as well. And yeah,
I'd love if you guys would check it out and hopefully we'll get you to Egypt at some point too.
Hell yeah, man. I'd love to. Egypt and then we're going to go with, we've got to make sure we go
with Randall to the Azores. The Azores, definitely. Yeah, working on that plan. That is going to be
fun. Let's get fun at Landis. Yeah. Fucking fascinating. All right. Thank you for listening,
everybody. Good night. Thank you.
