So, you are the second person that I've talked to who, for legal reasons, is not in the US
and I've had to do a Zoom interview with, because I typically don't do Zoom interviews.
So, could you sort of explain your geographical situation that you're in right now and how
that ties into the FBI and the alleged leaked audio that you posted?
Absolutely.
So, after I got out of prison in 2016, over my involvement with the, you know, number of
leaks and investigations into Pal Inter, H.P. Gary, Booz Allen Hamilton, Cambridge Analytica
firms that later went on to get caught over and over again, interfering with democratic
elections.
About a few months after I got released, I got re-arrested by the federal marshals for
giving interviews to VICE and the PBS.
There was no paper, no warrants, no BOP documents, no prison documentation, no paperwork whatsoever.
I was released five days later after one of my publishers paid a New York law firm $10,000
to basically go to them and threaten them and say, hey, we're going to take us to court
right now and it's not going to look good.
So, they let me out after that.
After that point, I announced several times publicly on democracy now and on Russia today
and a few other outlets that as soon as my probation ended and I was allowed to, I would
be leaving the US for good.
And I finally did that at the end of 2020.
Went to Antigua from there on, came to the UK and found out last year, I was released
six hours of secretly recorded audio made by Val Broeksmit, who was a son of a Deutsche
Bank executive who supposedly killed himself back in 2015, one of several Deutsche Bank
executives who just had that real cluster of suicides all of a sudden at that time.
Found out from him, from these recordings he had made of a meeting that he had with
the FBI at the LA office in the very end of 2020, that I was again a target, as it were.
And that was further verified when I was arrested for my involvement in this protest against
expanded police powers against protesters when I was arrested last year on the canal
boats that I live in with my fiance arrested, brought to the Metropolitan Police Station
and overheard one of the Metropolitan officers, one of the resting officers telling one of
the desks clerks that this is the guy at the FBI that they want, the guy I told you about
earlier.
So, clean from that, that I was in trouble and that they were going to ship me and that
turned out to be the case.
They put me in the Immigration Removal Center the next day, there were some falsified documents
that the Home Office put that claimed that my visa had been up after five months rather
than six months, this is something that's mentioned in one of the articles that came
out later.
Anyway, and when I got out, that's when I got the recordings of the five hours of audio.
So, between that and a few other things that came up and some other sources I can't talk
about, it became pretty abundantly clear that the FBI was back on the rampage and I
have no way of knowing despite reporters having gone to the FBI and asked, hey, what are you
after them for?
No way of knowing what charges they would have this time or even if the charges are ready
yet, they would be sealed presumably.
I also have no way of knowing to what extent me releasing that six hours of audio that
makes some of the FBI agents in question look very, very bad, whether that might have caused
them to back off.
Likewise, I have no way of knowing if the fact that the guy who made those recordings,
a former colleague of ours, Val Brooks, but I mentioned who turned against us to the FBI
in order to get help with the custody case.
I have no way of knowing if his unusual death, I don't know if it happened a half ago, and
the fact that it was a drone, I have no way of knowing if my book released in January
that they are very well familiar with.
I don't know if that's going to scare them off further or if there's a screenplay.
The bottom line is I've been in the UK, I've been spending my time between London where
my girlfriend and I have a canal boat that we live in and her mother's house here in
Bournemouth.
So bottom line is that the FBI wants another fight and they've got one.
So what would happen if you came to the US right now, would anything happen if you landed
in the US tomorrow?
Would you be in trouble immediately?
What do you think would happen?
It seemed from what happened last year with the house home office and also some of the
documents we later got from the police in which they referred to the quote political
elements of my case when I was at the station and a few other things that at least as of
last year I would have been escorted on a plane back to the US from that immigration
center to an airport and I would probably have been arrested right there by FBI agents
waiting for me.
But as it happens, right before they put me on a plane, we were able to declare asylum.
My girlfriend Sylvia Mann who's an activist and has been involved in this stuff before
managed to get IT and a major London law firm to get their top asylum lawyer who also specializes
along with other legal entities they're working with in national security law, journalism
law and so forth got them involved.
So they had to let me out and so basically the odds are now less that where I returned
to the US I'll be arrested because I feel like they know, they know from experience
from the time they had me in prison facing 105 years and then try to give me a cooperate
and threaten to indict my mom and I said go ahead, indict my mom and then they tried
to get me to plead in one of these counts of linking to documents that would have been
very dangerous as a precedent for other journalists to research.
They know how I play this and they know that there's enough documentation from the past
that would make anyone involved, any FBI agent involved, any DOJ official involved.
It would make it, there would be an opportunity cost for anyone involved in another illicit
prosecution of either me or anyone around me, not the FBI, not the DOJ, individual agents,
you know, we'll have, we'll think hard upon whether or not it's worth it to them to carry
out whatever instructions they're getting from higher up, I'll put it that way.
So actually, they might try to arrest me, I've seen them do dumb shit before, I've seen
them in the UK, you know, screw up just in the last year and a half, I've seen them
stroke some things that they could have easily handled more effectively.
But I'm not going back to the US to give it a try, I'm just going to see what happens
from here.
I do have this asylum case ongoing and this is a perfect opportunity for me between that
and the book release and some other projects we have, some things that will be launching
in January and coming out.
It's going to be increasingly difficult for any governments to come after me unless they
have a really strong case involving, you know, really clear evidence and they've never had
that before.
I don't see them having that in the future.
So I think it would be, this would be a good time for us to rewind a little bit and just
explain for the audience who is not familiar with you and your story, what is your background
and how did you get started down this path?
So I was a journalist and freelancer since I was 17, 18 and started out doing a lot of
nonsense, copyright, I mean, anything I could to make money writing, you know, music reviews,
women's shoe store, write ups for America online back in the day, blah, blah, gradually
was able to move on to the things I wanted to do, which included human writing, investigative
journalism, started writing for things like The Guardian, Vanity Fair, Huffington Post,
Skeptic Skeptical Enquirer, I had my first book come out when I was 24, you know, Other
Outlets, Got Columns, so forth, but by about 2008 I had become, 2009 really, I had become
very disenchanted with the press.
I had seen it from all angles and I knew enough from what I had seen that it was not up to
the task of providing informed consent to the public about even about some of the easy
issues, much less the more complex issues.
It was something that could be easily played upon, it could be easily conned and had been
by any political strategist, you know, who spends 20 minutes thinking about how to do
so.
So I was very concerned.
I had actually had a panic attack in 2007 when this came out to be my only panic attack
I've ever had.
And so 2009, me and Michael Hastings, who's now dead, he was a journalist for Rolling
Stone Newsweek, who is the one who wrote an article that the force of resignation of
General McChrystal in Afghanistan, the day after Hastings article came out about McChrystal
and the war there, him and I had some talks about how we could, what we could do to develop
some kind of mechanism to improve the press.
And that's what Project PM actually came out of.
About a year later, early 2010, I wrote an article for Huffington Post about anonymous
and about how it's its ongoing campaign at that point against the Australian governments
against proposed internet censorship legislation.
How it had, by bringing attention to the issue, at the very least, had served as sort of a
model, a proof of concept for how emergence, non-institutional, non-state groups of committed
ideological actors could and would gradually become capable of taking on nation-states
in more important and more decisive ways.
A year later, very end of 2010, I was recruited by the people within the anonymous server,
an internet relay chat server, from which a lot of the things that people heard about
back then, you know, the attacks in defense of WikiLeaks and Assange, the attacks involving
Asian decision governments, all the other stuff that happened in the next couple of years.
Most of that was centered in that server, which had about 80, 90 people, and about, I
would say, a dozen people who were consistently in charge, one of those became me.
So it wasn't brought in because the Tunisian Revolution had begun.
There were members, people involved in the Tunisian Revolution, both in the country of
Tunisia and Tunisian exiles in Germany and UK, who were in this group.
And then there was the rest of us.
And we were able to, first of all, bring attention in the West to the fact that the revolution
was occurring because prior to January 1st, there was zero, zero articles, zero knowledge
that there was anything going on in Tunisia or that it would matter.
We were able to, with Michael Hastings' help, make sure that the press understood this
correctly and did not view it incorrectly as a fundamentalist Islamic resolution without
this was an actual secular democratic revolution by which democracy could be achieved.
And then some of the hackers and some of the other specialists there were able to provide
other means of assistance to the revolutionaries in Tunisia.
And within about two weeks, one of the main guys in there, Slim Amanu, he's known as
Slim 404 on Twitter, generally, he is an incredible person.
He was arrested for several days by the Tunisian authorities under the Ben Ali regime.
And then a few days later, he was released around the time that Ben Ali fled the country.
And then a few weeks later, he joined the provisional government in Tunisia, the democratic
government, and then later resigned over protest or something.
The short version was that the Tunisians and the other allies brought in from around the
world to counter the Tunisian authorities to engage in cyberattacks against the Tunisian
police apparatus and to find other forms of assistance.
That was a proof of concept right there.
It showed that, yeah, a lot could be done if we had the right people, just like the CIA,
just like anything else.
If we have the right people, and we're working together properly, and we have, and if we're
willing to do, if we're willing to risk whatever to do it, then we can oftentimes do it.
And that's where the Arab Spring came from.
It wasn't a success in one of the countries, of course, but it did lead to Morocco, for
instance, King of Morocco, being scared and providing some new reforms, some new rights,
people there.
It helped in many ways.
From there on, about a month after this, this February 2011, we discovered there's a Financial
Times article that came out in which a former Navy intelligence figure and longtime intelligence
contractor named Aaron Barr bragged about having infiltrated the non-op server and identified
our leaders and so forth.
And the next day, several of the hackers, they told me they were about to go in to his
company and take over his servers, steal all their documents, get his notes on us and
everything else.
And so I got ready for the deal with the press on that.
And from that, that's how we discovered that HB Gary, Palinter, in-game systems in Barakrow,
these four companies, had been set up with the help of the Obama DOJ to provide what
amounted to a clandestine black ops service to private entities, like, for instance, the
US Chamber of Commerce and Bank of America.
So that's the team thema scandal.
People want to look at the team thema scandal, they'll be able to get a better cent.
This was a thing that was in the news for about a month.
Every major outlet covered it.
Congress started to investigate all of this, and then that investigation was shut down
oddly enough by a Republican, a committee chairman, which is interesting because this
was a scandal that involved, again, the Obama DOJ, spreading unusual for a Republican to
want to shut down an investigation and something like that.
That was a real scandal, unlike the vast and furious stuff and a few others.
That was a real scandal.
The reason they shut it down, because this is a bipartisan issue, the intermixing of
the misuse of intelligence agencies, all these things were bipartisan.
There are very few people in Congress or the Senate or any administration from Obama to
Trump to Biden who have any real problem with these things occurring.
It's the bipartisan consensus.
So anyway, I went to prison.
What you're talking about is private intelligence contractors.
Often in league with their counterparts at the NSA, DOJ, FBI, and so forth, as they were in
this case and as they have in other cases.
And so some of the things I wanted to investigate involved private intelligence contractors,
but creating products for clients in the Pentagon, in the CIA, or Kingdom of Bahrain,
or Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, other illicit dictatorships, and everybody just winking at it,
everybody letting it happen.
More to the point I'm talking about disinformation methodologies, technologies that were being
developed to that point that later on became very decisive and have still been decisive
in helping to destroy the ability of the public to really understand what's going on at a good
point. I mean, social networking bots.
The mass proliferation of AI supported fake people online by which to, and everyone's heard
of the simple versions of this, the Russian troll bots and all that.
Yeah, as well as Saudi Arabia.
Yeah. And that's cheap off the shelf stuff.
And it was actually used a lot more in Latin America before it was used in the U.S.,
these Twitter bots that just go and help to create the illusion of consensus.
Some of the early research.
Anyway, so without getting into the specifics, we over the next year and a half, me and my team
in coordination with some other journalists, sometimes with me writing in the Guardian,
sometimes with me writing just publicly putting stuff out.
We came across a lot of things that we weren't supposed to and the public was not supposed
to know about. And to some extent, the press paid attention to some extent, they forgot pretty
quickly. And the FBI was within a few weeks of our first discoveries of these DOJ-associated
illicit programs to target journalists, to target WikiLeaks, to target labor unions,
to target us using criminal methods that would be crimes if we did them.
Within a few weeks, the FBI had acquired a secret grand jury investigation against me.
Secret grand jury warrants to see all my communications, blah, blah.
And started deploying some not-so-secret FBI cooperators and assets that went after me and my
family, loved ones, all other volunteers, exposed us in some cases to extreme danger from
other parties. For instance, the ZEDAS drug cartel, which Anonymous was up against
in October of 2011. Yeah, I see the expression on your face.
Why were they up against the ZEDAS drug cartel?
In about October or November, October 2011, a member of a non-veracruz, which was one of
sort of a cell of active anonymous movement participants, was kidnapped by the ZEDAS.
There's a lot we don't know about specifics. It may have been a random thing. It probably was.
Had nothing to do with him being anonymous. He was held for ransom. This is one of the things
that the ZEDAS do was aside from drug running or used to do or of their capabilities.
Anyway, so the non-veracruz people began, they asked for some assistance on this.
What they wanted to do was somewhat controversial among some of the American
Anons. What they wanted to do was make known to the ZEDAS that if this guy is not released
within a certain number of days, that a non-veracruz is going to release the names of 75 ZEDAS
affiliated police officers, cab drivers, and so forth. The kind of people that help the ZEDAS
cover their tracks, transport stuff, engaging kidnappings, killings.
Had they done that, there were, especially at that time in Mexico, there's a lot of groups
that are very well armed and trained, not the police, but the military, that make it a point
to execute such people because this was a war. This whole operation was very popular in
Mexico. It was less popular among some of the douchey, some of the hacker sorts and some of the
people with no skin in the game who started objecting to it, who started attacking non-veracruz
for this because they thought it was unsafe or whatever. I stepped up and became the face of
that because by explaining this to the press and to other non-ons and saying, hey, it's not
true fucking business, how these Mexican and non-ons handle the kidnapping on one of their own or
handle the ZEDAS cartel. None of you know anything about the cartels. You never lived in Mexico,
whereas I have, and my family comes from the border and all that, but more to the point,
these Mexicans live in Mexico. They deal with these cartels. They're going to do this. The
reporters and the non-principles in the U.S. and Europe and elsewhere are objecting should
reconsider or shut the fuck up. Anyway, so as often happens, the press decided that I was in
charge of this entire operation. There's a bunch of articles, if you look up Vera Brown ZEDAS,
mainstream outlets, the Atlantic, whatever else proposing that maybe I'm going to get my head
cut off in Dallas, Texas. Anyway, in that period, some of the people that were involved with H.B.
Garry and the FBI and so forth did such things as posting my mom's address online on Twitter
and tagging the ZEDAS in them. Yeah. This is one of the things that I later that later drove me to.
Where did they post this stuff? Where were they? These people that work within these
companies and within the FBI doxxed your mom on Twitter.
Yeah, including Aaron Barr using the name Nargonon. Aaron Barr was the CEO of H.B. Garry,
one of the first companies we investigated. Tom Ryan, another guy who was another FBI
co-operator and asset. Anyway, yes, several of them posted this and of course did not get kicked
off Twitter. There was no repercussions for them. That's kind of how this stuff goes.
And that's the least of it. You can still find hundreds and hundreds of death threats against
me by FBI co-operators that are just sitting on Twitter that have never gotten anyone in trouble.
This is the same thing for other people who are very active in exposing intelligence operations,
Pallander, Peter Thiel, his network. We all get the same treatment and some of us fare better than
others. Some of us end up dead. Some of us live to fight another day.
Okay. So once your mom got doxxed on Twitter, that's what led to you making that video that
you posted, I believe, on YouTube? No, no, no. Okay. No. What that led to me was calling her
and asking her to leave the house and then calling, and then calling actually local police and saying,
hey, I normally wouldn't call you guys, but some of your buddies in the fucking FBI have just done
this, so I want you to patrol on that block because if anything happens to my mom.
No, I didn't want to threaten the FBI until much later. So in March, 2012, I was read by the FBI
at my mom's house. They come to my apartment first. I had left the previous day to go to my mom's
house knowing they were coming. I had a tip. And so they came to my mom's house without a warrant,
asked to speak to me. I said, come on the backyard. Let's talk. And they asked me if I wanted to get
the main laptops. And I said, no, I really don't want to give me any laptops. And so on and so forth.
They left. A few hours later, they came back with a warrant, searched my mom's house, detained her
downstairs. And then a few days later, the DOJ prosecutor told me through my lawyer that now
my mom was going to be prosecuted as well for obstruction of justice. My mom urged me not to
say anything publicly. And I didn't for that time. But over the next few months, I found more and more
elements of how the FBI and certain of their friendly parties in the press,
friendly reporters, some of whom work with HB Gary Stratt for the FBI itself, FBI cooperators,
the way they had shaped things up in order to try to discredit me, discredit our research,
discredit Aaron Schwartz's research, discredit the research that dozens of us had done over the
last year of Palinter and so forth. And some of the things, I caught the FBI doing more things
and being involved more things. And I knew, and I tried my best to go to reporters and
other comrades and say, hey, look, this stuff's going to happen to me. I'm going to go to prison.
Please be in a position to make sure these things about Palinter and Booz Allen Hamilton and the
NSA that they get out, no matter what. As I said, that's a dream wall to the last
communication we ever had at that point until years later. And nothing came out of it.
And so finally, in September, I made a video saying, look, here's the things we've caught
Aaron Barr doing. Here's the things we've caught the other FBI assets doing to me, to my mother,
to our colleagues. Here's what we've caught them planning to do to the families of labor union
leaders that they were going after. I mean, Aaron Barr was in their proposals to Palinter
and these other companies created to show Bank of America and Chamber of Commerce.
They were going to investigate the children and families of their targets, labor union leaders,
journalists, whoever, and in fact, had started doing so in these documents. So I said, since
apparently that's all legal, I'm going to see if it's legal when I do it. So I'm going to look into
the family of this FBI agent who's threatening my mom. And we'll find out if there's a double
standard here. And of course there was because I was hit by a SWAT team later that evening.
And then brought in charged with threatening a federal agent. Because I had always also said
that I would shoot any other FBI agency came to my mom's house or at my house or anyone else I know.
At the time, I meant to, I mean, as far as I was concerned, nothing to lose. I know what it means
to be subject to an investigation by the investigation by the FBI and DOJ in cooperation
with major banks and things like Palinter. And so I was more than happy to go out in the
place of gunfire if you need be. Luckily, I had no weapons in the house at the time.
They're at my dad's house. And so otherwise it could have been more serious. Anyway,
so they came and hit me. Full SWAT team brought me in. I was charged with threatening a federal
agent. And then a few months later charged with the thing they come up with to justify the original
investigation, which was copying and pasting a link that had been posted in the Anonops chat
server posted by, would turn out to be Jeremy Hammond, one of the hackers involved in the
Stratford hack. Me copying that link he had posted and pasting it into my chat room for Project PM
for our researchers. And then asking Jeremy, you know, what's in these? And him responding,
Oh, C and C, blah, blah, blah. What's the traffic credit cards? He had posted the credit card
information for subscribers of Stratford. I never use credit cards, you know, to anyone else in my
group. The same link had been posted publicly. That's something that the DOJ knew. It's why they,
anyway. But I was now facing 22 years on that mandatory minimum 11 counts of aggravated identity
theft for copying and pasting that link that I, you know, that it was one of hundreds of links
I copied and pasted the first one that involved credit card numbers. I was charged with that.
And then they charged me with obstruction of justice as well, along with my mom.
And then they made me an offer through my lawyers. They said, you know, if you cooperate
you know, we go to plea deal. And I told my lawyer, no. A few months later, they charged my mom
with obstruction of justice. Then they made me their next final offer, which was if I pleaded
just one of those 11 counts of obstruction of interference, sorry, of copying and pasting a
link, you know, I could get out right then. I already at that point already done two years in
jail waiting trial. And I said no. And the reason I said no is because had I played a single one
of those charges, the precedent established would have allowed the DOJ to prosecute any
researcher, journalist or other regular civilian that they found to be dangerous.
Simply for copying and pasting or accessing a file that ended up containing credit card numbers,
which, you know, when you go through a huge amounts of files every day as we've been doing
for a year and a half, sometimes going to happen. Later on, of course, I learned.
No, I was going to say, didn't they originally try to like put you in for over 100 years or
something? I was based on 105 years total. If you stacked up all the, there was 17 charges
all together. There was 11 counts of interference above aggravated identity theft. There was the
one count of threatening a federal agent. There was no count of conspiracy to release protected
information about a federal agent and the obstruction of justice. And I think something else.
And, of course, they had to drop, they ended up having to drop after two and a half years,
the day after the electronic green foundation and ours were not just dangerous, but also
didn't make any sense because the aggravated identity theft charge applies to stealing
government issued, you know, on those grounds. And also they were, I mean, they, by this point,
the press, thanks to Kevin Gallagher, the guy who helped to run my legal defense,
had helped to turn the tides to get the press to remember what it was that I've been,
what they had targeted me to begin with, because a lot of them have been confused by that point.
And so by that time, 2013, 2014, I had become a cause celebrity. I become a hero again.
Even among outlets that had a couple years later, a couple years prior,
I accused me of being a fraud, of being a charlatan, accused me of making up the Zeta's thing.
I mean, yeah, again, I've seen, and that's why the press itself, the press dynamics,
are the thing that since then have most are most compelling to me and the thing that me and others
who have watched this happen feel that most needs to be solved. We can risk our lives
even die in the case of Aaron Schwartz. The press, or refrains from actively
discrediting us on behalf of, because they've gotten bad information
knowingly or unknowingly from the state, unless they can act like the press is supposed to act,
none of it matters. No one's going to know. You see this over and over again with the
strap for documents. There's five million strap for emails that went to WikiLeaks.
Just the first wave of the discoveries within those emails involved serious
malfeasance, such as like Dow Chemical hiring strap for to spy on the victims of the Bhopal
incidents in the 80s, where one of Dow Chemical's plants blew up and killed thousands of people
and maimed and sickened tens of thousands of others. Strap for the company I went down over
was that I owe $80,000 to in restitution was spying on that group that was trying to
compel Dow Jones to pay some restitution, probably like $40 each for remaining Indians.
That's just one of many things we came across. What I'm saying is that in the press, rather for
the most part, particularly certain individuals like Adrian Chin, Joseph Min, Sam Biddle, John Cook,
people who would go on to the intercept and become editors there and writers there, just like I would.
There was a number of people who because they wrote the first pieces putting out this information,
those articles were then taken as trustworthy by other larger outlets, New York Times, Atlantic,
whatever. What I came to learn and what I'm able to document now is that all it takes is a few,
let's say, on the take corrupt or FBI-aligned journalists or intelligence community-aligned
journalists to create a narrative that will make that it will ensure that the actual meat,
the content, the actual issues that affect everyone that we put out
all takes a few of them to ensure that a large portion of the press either ignores it or discredits
it and that's what happened over and over again and it's happened with other whistleblowers and
it'll keep happening until such time as the people in question journalists to do that are given a
reason not to do it and so that's kind of what a lot of our projects, long-term projects, back in
10 years, starting 10 years ago, the things that'll come to fruition in January, that will be
that'll be the start of this, that'll be the start of a new era in which reporters are going to want
to start getting things right and they're definitely not going to get things, they're
definitely not going to get caught, let's say colluding with Stratford or Palin or HP Gary or the FBI.
That's a weird thing because it's a big thing you see now, I mean especially in the U.S. I don't
know, I'm not familiar with the U.K., the press in the U.K. but I mean obviously right now I think
a lot of people are pretty aware of the alignment with companies like CNN and MSNBC being aligned
with and hiring all kinds of ex Pentagon officials, ex CIA operatives, FBI operatives and all these
people using them and reporting on direct reports from the Pentagon without even trying to verify
anything and that's a lot of... Yeah, that's a big thing all over the U.S. and then the U.K.
I mean it's Dallas Morning News does it, New York Times does it, Wall Street Journal does it,
obviously Fox News does it, MSNBC has open, you know, has ex CIA agents, you know, all that,
not the good kind that actually help and reveal stuff like John Carriaco, but the kind that are
still, you know, still aligned to that sort of centrist, fucking, you know, sort of centrist,
bipartisan, you know, pro status quo deal. Yeah, I mean MSNBC is one of the worst thinners, but
yeah, every single outlet, major outlet is under, to some degree or another, is manipulated sometimes,
you know, knowingly by elements of the intelligence community or other intelligence
agencies abroad or companies, you know, people like Peter Peter Teal, Elon Musk, so forth.
This has been going on, I mean, it's always been a thing. I mean, you know, you remember
first Godfather movie, you know, where, you know, the mob could buy off the police
locally or buy off reporters, they had friendly reporters, you know, this has always been a thing.
I think it's more of a thing now than it was, say, 30, I would say 25 years ago and worse,
we have less journalists who are competent or courageous than we did 25 years ago. We've got
a lot of millennial types who went to Columbia University, fucking grew up in fucking Connecticut
over the fuck, and they go straight to New York Times, you know, and they know shit about shit,
and, and they think, again, they consider themselves experts. You've got a lot of people
who use the term conspiracy theory without thinking about what that means, and just announcing
prima facie, certain things as conspiracy theories and where, and then, of course, engaging in what
they would otherwise term conspiracy theories, if those things align with their ideological
interests or with what they think is the case. You have a lot of cowards, you know, who, who even
knows, being aware of certain things within, would be within Hollywood or press, you know,
have been caught, thankfully, suppressing that information. You know, this includes my former
editors at Vanity Fair, who killed two of my stories for them, because the stories were about
friends of fucking Reagan Carter, the publisher there, Reagan Carter, the same guy who helped
protect Epstein for so many years, as one of them. Really? Oh, yeah. Yeah, look, yeah, people,
people should look up Reagan Carter, Epstein, because one of the former, one of the, there's
a woman, I can't remember her name now, I think I talked to her once, she would try to do a piece
on Epstein for Vanity Fair, and Reagan Carter, make sure that didn't happen. Again, this is all,
this is stuff that's been documented, it gets lost in the fog, lost in the strum,
but one, so one of the, one of the things that we are trying to do in terms of
some of the projects we're putting out, you know, the large compilations of raw materials,
recordings, emails, screenshots, stolen documents, whatever, just like a Project PM,
which scared the government so much, it had to fucking come after it. Let me come after
me in ways that embarrassed a lot of these DOJ officials. This project would do the same
with the press. And yeah, and all these things that are already known, already public,
you know, made public by others, not me, those will help, those will be kind of,
kind of compiled in there with entries for every single reporter and editor that we have stuff on.
And then we have the vast amount of material that I have, and that a few of my colleagues have,
because we've been dealing with the press, we're part of the press, we've been interviewed by the
press, we've been sources for the press, been written about by the press, and when you're
doing, when you're four years in prison, and the press is writing about your case and you,
it's very easy to find, to find errors, because it's about you, you know,
you're the expert, and you have the documentation. And so that made it a lot easier for me,
my case and the coverage of me before and after, to find, you know, errors and to find
sometimes the same reporters, providing two different contradictory versions of the same
story, or to find an outlet like in New York Times, you know, claiming in 2011 that maybe I made up
a kidnapping in Mexico, and then three years later in an op-ed in New York Times compared
me to Socrates, or the New York Times, you know, correctly detailing 2011, some of the things we
found Palants are doing, and then another New York Times reporter three years later,
writing this real, real weird, like, demonstratively false pro-Palants or article,
and then a few months later, getting hired by Google, where he's now paid more. It just,
it goes on and on. And it's something that, you know, the press, you know, does not regulate
itself very well. It doesn't have any, there's no negative feedback. There's no, there's no reason,
pragmatically, for a reporter to be honest, courageous to hold his colleagues to account for
their mistakes and errors. And so we're going to create that mechanism, and that will be a great
help to the press, I'm sure. What is your, I'm curious, what are your thoughts on the whole,
the whole Epstein thing, and the whole conspiracy revolving him, and the French guy who just
apparently killed himself in prison a couple months ago, or maybe it was less than a couple
months ago. I don't know how closely you followed that, but that's something that I noticed,
especially during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, is that there was so little coverage of it,
whether it be on Twitter or anywhere else. There was just all these smaller, more irrelevant
headlines popping up that were sort of bearing the whole Ghislaine thing.
Yes. What is your take on that, on that, on that whole situation?
One of my favorite colleagues that I've dealt with on some things a few years ago, Kevin Hall,
he was one of the guys at the Miami Tribune, or sort of the Miami Herald Tribune that forced the
Epstein thing back into public eye a number of years ago, like 2016, 2017. He's one of the ones
who wrote this big article that essentially forced the DOJ to go back after Epstein,
even though they didn't want to. I've had an interest in it for quite a while, especially
because, I mean, so I wrote a tweet back in 2017. You know what, I'm going to skip off bragging.
I'll just say I predicted some of this stuff coming about. But basically,
the Epstein thing is the exact sort of thing that if you were to say to some porters,
to some average porters, hey, I think there's a billionaire who he's hanging out with like very
powerful people like Trump and Clinton, and with like, you know, major figures who've done
it for years, and he has an island, and he seems to have a prediction for young girls,
and was convicted, in fact, for having sex with an underage girl a number of years ago,
and hangs out with Prince Andrew, and all these things. And maybe there's something there.
That's the kind of thing, you know, like, oh, that's conspiracy theory, because it involves
powerful people engaging in pedophilia. There's other reporters who would be
reluctant to go into it, reluctant to even acknowledge it, because they support either
Clinton or Trump, both of whom were on that damn plane at different times. There's other
reporters who just wouldn't understand why that's an issue. And there's a lot of reporters who,
even if they didn't understand, and say, oh, yeah, wow, you're right, there's a bill of thing,
they would be reluctant to be the ones going out and saying, oh, billionaire pedophile network,
you know, involving intelligence community and blackmail, because that sounds silly to the
average civilian who has no shit about shit. It sounds silly to other journalists or reporters
who think that anything, you know, who think they just know it all, who have it all,
have the world figured out. And so it was tremendous that it was great this article came
out because it forced the DOJ to do this, this, and this. And then, of course, the same press that
had, you know, outside the Miami Herald Tribune, outside these few reporters that I deal with and
who are actually courageous and competent. Yeah, they fucked the whole thing up. They,
they, you know, Epstein was convicted, put in jail, he's found dead. Immediately,
you have the same same outlets that allowed this shit to happen, or in some cases,
like Vanity Fair helped to cover up, like Epstein, or other outlets that covered up, you know, the,
the, what are the two brothers and fucking in Hollywood that started the Me Too movement, you
know, you have the same outlets referring to the idea that maybe he didn't kill himself as a conspiracy
theory, you know. And then, of course, later you have documents coming out, autopsies and all that.
No, it's not a, it's not a silly, that happens all the time. And it's not a silly theory,
to want to, to look into. It's not, there's nothing, it is, in fact, a journalist's duty,
if they're interested in this case, and they want to write about it, to explore the idea that maybe
Epstein was killed, not just because another cellmate wanted him dead, but because a lot of
powerful people wanted him dead. Because a lot of powerful people had been on his fucking island
and on his plane, fucking little girls, probably, probably being taped, probably,
for a purpose involving, let's say, a combination of US and Israeli intelligence, in order to
blackmail and control those people. There's, there's a number of individuals out there who
would, would, would find that to be not worth investigating, even though a lot of poor portions
of it have come out since then. Like, there's, there's, we have, we have, there's tons, tons of,
of, of, on the record people from intelligence, state and all that, there's tons of points to the,
the conclusion that among me and my colleagues, when I say my colleagues talk about the people
that I work with privately, in, in security groups and so forth, who are journalists, academics,
ex-missive lawyers, ex-intelligence, blah, blah. We, we can all talk about, like, these things
without having civilians in the way, being like, oh, that's, you know, I've heard Alex Jones
had something about that. I mean, it's wrong, like that kind of shit, you know. So, no, it's
pretty fucking obvious that Epstein, you know, even, even aside from how he got all his money,
was involved in a effort to, a successful effort, you know, for a while, no doubt,
to compromise powerful individuals. That's what the Russians have been doing for years,
what the U.S. has been doing for years. It's what sometimes I do for years, just not using,
not involving pedophilia and little girls, you know. Well, actually, actually, I should take
that back, back in 2007, 2008, you know, just like with the, you know, you know, the show,
perverted justice or catch a predator. Yes. Yeah. Well, there's a lot of us doing stuff like that
back then.
