Between me and the people I work with, we're at the center of a lot of things, and we're
very closely watched because we know, you know, we know quite a bit, and we are of,
we are active threats to a lot of, a lot of entities.
Again, that's why I was facing 105 years in prison.
It wasn't because of my good looks.
It wasn't because fucking they just felt 105 was a fun number.
It's because, you know.
Do you just like, like, you have, must have, you must be so fucking paranoid.
I mean, you have, you're in the middle of all of these crazy, just like national
powers.
Like you must be in the middle of so many different crosshairs.
Does that not freak you the fuck out?
Or do you just, do you thrive off of that?
Traditionally, I've been less, much less paranoid than I should have been, which is
why I keep, especially in the last year or two, I've kept getting surprised about
people I've dealt with that turned out to be something else entirely.
And so I've made a resolution to be more careful and to punish those people very
publicly.
And then to us and Russia, you know, by making that interview open by publishing
the interview they did that, you know, with Russian intelligence and punish the
Russian intelligence by showing, you know, by, by putting this out, you know,
showing the Russian intelligence again, is using Russia today as a means of
espionage and punish the US because that whole interview is where I go into a lot
of their CIA assets that are being used openly within the anonymous movements in
DDOS, which are now absolute extensions of US intelligence.
And so, I mean, so it's, I mean, I'm a drug addict and alcoholic.
So, you know, and I once faced 105 years in prison and odds were pretty high that I
was going to die in prison.
So after that, you know, to an extent, you're kind of, you're kind of dead and to,
you know, what are they going to do?
I mean, are they going to shoot me in the head?
Oh, no, I'll be dead.
This is kind of just like, you said it used to be addicted to heroin, right?
Yeah, yeah.
And I'm still, but I'm still in Suboxone, mate.
And you know, it takes Suboxone, which is a synthetic opiate, you know, I've taken
that for 10 years.
And you still take that currently?
Yeah.
And I take whatever else flows around, you know.
Do you think that, do you think that has anything to do with your kind of like what
you're doing with your life right now as far as like, like, I think if I get the
sense that you get energy from, from all of this and from putting all this up.
Absolutely.
I mean, it was to agree.
I mean, you remember my, my, my, the things that get me in trouble.
I've been doing that since I was five years old, six years old.
There's just something, some trait I have that prompts me to be really offended by
certain kinds of injustice or dishonesty.
And, you know, I, I wasn't on drugs when I got suspended from school, like six or
seven years during a particular year.
Fuck my teachers and I wasn't on drugs.
You know, the drugs really contribute sometimes to certain kinds of behavior, but they also
in some ways maybe help me, help me to refrain from doing things that I shouldn't.
You know, more, more, you know, let's say more direct things.
Are you afraid of death?
No.
What I'm afraid of is that, is that all these sacrifices and all this work is going to, is,
is going to come to nothing.
And that regardless of what happens to us, you know, the ones, once we're still alive,
the point will still get lost.
And yeah, and the things that we've been, that we've been predicting and keep happening,
you know, regarding Cambridge, Cambridge Analytica, Palin's her election interference,
mass disinformation, the inability for, for, for the average person to know where,
where can I find credible information?
All those things have accelerated in the last 10 years that we've been worried about predicted,
tried to counter that those things will continue because we will have failed.
But, you know, luckily I'm a human being and so I'm also able to cut that off.
Everyone's going to die, you know, death is going to happen.
Luckily, luckily we're able to cut off from feeling emotions about that.
You know, it's more arbitrary the way we feel.
I mean, yeah, sometimes they do get very upset and hopeless.
I feel helpless about the cause.
And in fact, I, I typically kill myself a month and a half ago for the first time in my life and made that known afterwards.
Probably because I've come across some things involving people close to us.
And was not very hopeful about other people taking them seriously.
Luckily, my girlfriend woke up and intervened before that was completed.
And, but that was then, again, we've solved some of these problems since then.
So I've been pretty happy since.
You know, it's just, it's just my, my dad was only happy when he had lots of money, which was for about seven years.
So he hit by the FBI for creating all this real estate fraud and so forth.
Your dad was in real estate fraud?
Well, this case was dismissed, but he lost all his money and his part of the part was went to jail.
He was a guy who made all his money, you know, no risk, no reward kind of way.
I'm only happy when I believe, when I, when I have reason to believe that I'm going to be victorious over these much more powerful entities.
And I'm going to be able to convince people who don't quite see it that way yet that actually they're on my side, not necessarily these other sides.
And that ultimately this whatever shape it takes will will starting next year in January.
Result in an increased
the war is being fought.
We'll actually start fighting it. You know, the war that's involved, you know, 40 FBI raids in January 2011 against households in the US for supposedly being involved and ready and did us in PayPal.
You know, Elon Musk and fucking Peter Teals and nobody else thing.
The fucking all the deadly arm raids against people in the UK, Spain, France being involved in anonymous, the people who disappeared, people who have died, you know, you took in their own lives or whatever.
You know, all the, the stuff that's been done to our families, the prosecutions, the, the unofficial prosecutions that we're going to be able to, the people will see that there is a duty necessity and
you know, so it's my hope, my vision, and it's what he's been going to know that someday in the near future, I can get a lot of people to stop being pussies and start acting like real citizens.
Vis-a-vis the information that we have documented that needs to be acted upon. And that that entails a lot of things that involves will involve a couple of years of information warfare, making sure everyone's on the same page.
And, you know, it will also entail a lot of these powerful oligarchs and so forth losing more money, losing more influence, their individuals who work for them, going into hiding.
Or in some cases making deals with, with me to be debriefed as some people that sometimes they do. Others who were not aware of what they were doing, you know, voluntarily coming in and being brief, which happens.
And then we'll get to a point, you know, over the next 10 years as things get more chaotic, at which it will no longer be shocking to hear me say that yes, these people who are absolute vast criminals.
What do you think Peter Thiel's primary motivations are? And what do you think the future, the near future holds for, as far as his ambitions and what he wants to achieve? And can you go into that a little bit?
Yeah.
Well, I mean,
By the way, did you just roll a joint?
No, there's a cigarette. I spoke we out of a paperizer thing now.
Oh, okay.
I was going to say, that's fucking amazing. I mean, you'd be the first person to ever roll a joint on on my podcast.
Oh, I've done, I've done drugs on major national outlets.
Hell yeah.
The thing is, smoke a cigarette outside the window, which is actually a bigger deal here. Smoke a smoke a weed in the house. There's no no big deal with cigarette tobacco stuff.
Yeah, all right.
Was that your cat? Oh, that's cute.
It's a cat.
No, no, no, it's, it's, it's, it's, yeah, it's Sylvia's from my mom, girlfriend's.
So, some, some agree, anyone who wants to know what Peter Thiel, how, how he, what he believes in, and what he plans, they can find out from Thiel himself, just read his article on the dark enlightenment.
From, I would only add, in terms of his motivations, I think his motivations are very similar to a number of historical figures, going way back and, you know, right up until our times.
He, he, he was fucking cat.
It's really obnoxious. It's always, it's always after food and shit, and it goes around anyway, and it's been fed and just around extorting people.
For people who don't know.
So I think, I think he honestly, honestly believes that the course that he wants that he's in a position to establish for humanity is the best way forward.
Yeah, and I think that that's true of people throughout, you know, that's true, it's true of Stalin, it was true of Lenin, it was true of Hitler was true of Churchill is true of Roosevelt was true of George Washington true of Napoleon, true of Julius Caesar.
And some of those people I have more sympathy with than others.
I just don't think that Peter Thiel is up there with Napoleon or Julius Caesar, or, or Robespierre, or, or Thomas Jefferson, or even.
I just don't, based on my experiences with him and based on fact again that, despite all of his power and money.
I've been able to give him the run around several times, in coordination with my people.
If the idea is that, you know, you know, might as right or that the power, you know, will to power and all these things. Well, it's not quite working out for him, because
it's been years.
And the real response from me, aside from all the things that appeared in the paper about him because of me and all the professional investigations that have occurred, and make short short because of me, and the other stuff that that's going to that's occurred because of me.
The real response by a number of us and some other organizations and individuals, journalists, you know, different kinds of people that hasn't even come yet.
But we've played a pretty significant part, both publicly and covertly in disrupting his enterprises and those of others, other individuals like him, oftentimes from prison.
So, I don't think he's, I don't think he's up to the task. I don't think he's up to the task of leading the world.
I think that's going to be make more, more, more clear in January, when this hammer start to drop.
You're releasing, you're releasing your book, right?
Yeah, my memoirs, which have been, you know, for a product of 10 years of research, you know, not just by me, but by Aaron Schwartz, Michael Hastings, all kinds of volunteers and so forth, will be coming out.
It'll be going to every single major outlet in the western world, as well as a lot of NGOs, all that can be championed by people like comedian Frankie Boyle, Alex Winter, you know, on up to fucking, you know, to anarchist radicals here and there, libertarian groups here and there.
What's going to be, what is the name of it going to be?
It's called My Glorious Defeats.
My Glorious Defeats.
That's going to happen. And by that time, the screenplay version that I'm doing with Alex Winter will be floating around Hollywood.
Even the fact of, even just producers reading it, you know, we have studios that want it, but the point of fact is circulating around will itself help to bring attention to what we have on him and others around him, some of the journalists that he's had working for and so forth.
It will be produced. It will be made into a feature film that I can pretty much guarantee you that at this point, based on what I know.
At the same time, some major projects that are ever doing in coordination with several different, very, very different groups will launch.
And a lot of the, you know, things that don't involve Peter Thiel, you know, will be coming out and a lot of individual journalists, reporters, editors and so forth were still working.
A lot of federal officials, FBI, federal judges, DOJ officials.
What about George Soros?
George Soros is already a subject of attention for the last 20 years. Like that's someone like that's not somebody whose name people don't know.
So like, you know, I don't, and I don't research him because George Soros wasn't wasn't the one spying on us when we were going after Tunisia.
An interesting thing about George Soros to me is that he is like, he's labeled as this guy. He's just like any conspiracy theorist automatically wants to talk about George Soros.
If somebody mentions George Soros, at least in my experience, it's like you automatically like, oh my God, this is a fucking crazy person. This is a crazy conspiracy theorist.
Yeah, that's a phenomenon that applies to a lot of things that are, yeah, it's unfortunately it's one of those things is because one hears this guy saying George Soros is going to use the U.N. to kill all the whites in five years.
Like, you know, then the next person, you say, hey, George Soros, like, oh, you're one of those guys. It's the same thing I brought into like with different issues, you know, because Alex Jones has said something once, or because whatever the fuck.
For some, for some people, they think that they think that that somehow has, you know, my friend growing up, he had an older brother with a douchebag hipster, he was in a punk rock and all that stuff.
And into like irony for irony's sake in a really entertaining way. And him and his little girlfriends, sometimes they would drive us to the movie theater and he would listen to the Beach Boys.
And my friend, you know, who, like me, despises his brother for all this douchebag hipster stuff, you know, started, started hitting the Beach Boys and I told, I said, Caleb is Caleb Pritchard, he's now a journalist in Austin.
I said, look, your brother doesn't have the power to make the Beach Boys anything better or worse than they are. Okay. You know, leave the Beach Boys alone.
Just because your brother's a douchebag has no effect on it. And I also understand there's a principle whereby like a lot of people who like certain bands, let's say Nickelback or whatever, might be douchebags and that might, you might be able to develop a framework whereby it's more likely that person may do that.
I get that. But unfortunately, in this society, everything, every statements, every, every fact, every assertion, especially as of the 2016 election, which luckily I was not in prison for safely away from that whole fucking thing.
Especially since then, you know, everything's a fucking everything is is seen in context of how it might be used by the opposition.
And so I come out of prison and I'm saying, yeah, like Russian intelligence, of course, they were involved in this shit. That's what they do. They're very good at it. But also, there were other things involved in this election.
And I have no use of the Russian intelligence like Cambridge Analytica. By the time I was in Russian intelligence, and now I've got now I've got people who are, you know, who are, you know, invested in the idea that Russia had nothing to do with the election.
They're like, oh, you're pro CIA. It's like, yeah, I just got a fucking prison. I'm pro CIA. Good job. You know, and if I say, yeah, Hillary Clinton was involved in social justice shit, where she where she destroyed her own her and stuff.
There's a lot of charges of children justice for much less. And so yeah, of course, you got a fucking passion, the FBI from elements of the FBI. And of course, that's going to piss on the Democrats like, oh, you like Trump, you know, it's like, no, I, I will at that point as president so I couldn't say what I want to say but, you know, it just everything is that
everything is about something else. And this amber amber heard the joint debt trial which me and my real friend and a few other friends like watch very closely because it has some there's issues there actually very interesting.
There's issues there that are very relevant to me in particular.
Right.
And actually actually watch the trial, like we know what happened in the trial we know what was presented we know, you know, blah, blah, and, you know, and then after when the verdict comes, you know, now there's people now now there's all these tons of people who believe that they're
advocates for survivors of dressing abuse, who are saying this is a greatest setback for domestic abuse survivors in history. Well, fucking Johnny Depp's fear was cut off by amber heard, according to everyone except for her.
Johnny Depp, you know, her is on tape, like saying, you know, then it's like punch you I punched you got it punch you I just hit you you baby.
Yeah, blah, blah, and like you fucking pussy be a man. Yeah, exactly it just it just the evidence was was clear. I mean, if we believe women that we can believe amber heard what she said she punched the fuck out of Johnny Depp.
Over and over again and there's no but it's the contrary. So, you know, it is one of those things where I already know, when I go pub if I go and say hey, you know, fucking this was actually a victory for domestic abuse people, you know, violence, or anyone who's had to deal with a
person. And it's also useful because here's someone on the stand, who clearly has these disorders that sometimes help people become become powerful, because they lack all ethics they can lie, they're willing to lie in ways other people, you know, would not believe the one would lie
and it's hard to believe a certain kind of monstrosity. These are people who are in high places and very rarely do they have to get they end up getting cross examined in public where we where everyone can see where they're forced to, you know, to address their lies, and everyone can see what kind of person exists out
there. Amber heard doesn't matter but there are other people who matter a lot who probably had those same conditions. You know, anyway, so it's an important trial for that case but for those reasons but of course, a lot of people who have seen none of it who admitted to saying none of it.
You know, have decided that they know all about it and this is just a metaphor for journalism.
It's a weird thing in the media to man it's a really weird thing in the media because you can you can almost it's a thing that I feel like I'm optimistic about a lot of people are becoming more aware to aware of, especially when it comes to like the big corporate media websites, in particular, like for example,
like when I noted when this when the verdict came out yesterday, it was you can already you can already predetermine which websites which media entities are going to have what position on what thing like vice the most part vice they were just like
shitting on Johnny Depp saying John you know Amber you know he said that he wouldn't want to fucking killer and fuck her corpse, and he won can you believe this fucking asshole one the one the trial, and then you see the other media outlets, you know, taking the complete opposite
position. It's just like there's no logic or or critical thinking involved in any of this stuff.
And then there's outliers or then there's unusual it's like with the New York Post and other a lot of other Murdoch or the deals were actually after Johnny Depp as well even though the right wing because Johnny Depp to them or to whoever's telling him to do whatever was it was representative Hollywood
and so to them it was it was they thought the strategy would be worthwhile to show how look, you know, it's look at all these look at these guys who are left wing, you know, Depp is not very about that political openly but you know, he's a Hollywood actor.
Look at them look at how they act you know that was there. So that's why daily. That's why you know Depp ended up suing a Murdoch owned you know right wing paper the sun in the UK couple years ago and then losing and then you know, and then you know, in the last quarter
last couple months, a lot of the Fox stations and so forth local Fox affiliates have had misleading things, you know, attacking Depp.
Now some of them come around and realize you know then of course but then you have. So there's a mix here it gets complicated but yes for the most part.
I think there's a lot of people who are actual feminists and actual advocates for for violence who have been on Depp's side in last few weeks last few months since they've seen this stuff come out and they actually care about these things and the truth and then there's a bunch who don't.
You know who just, again, perhaps if they had actually seen parts of the trial they would they would have different opinion, or perhaps they wouldn't because perhaps because they think that doesn't really matter.
If domestic if Johnny Depp was abused and then lied about what matters is what political implications will that be. How will, you know, how will this be used to discredit women in the future like well, hopefully be used to destroy women who get caught lying about it.
Anyway, so it's this is a great is a great example of the disingenuousness the obscurantist ballet, where facts don't matter.
All that matters is is gaining an edge and in the whatever the different kind of cultural wars between right and left or between between this left wing faction between the between trans and turf, you know, or between you know, you know, on the right is different
and that's all that matters to a lot of people and that is basically this disease or society face that that's the chief disease is that everyone's arming up
and every every fact every instance every everything that matters is only is seen primarily for how it can be used in this disingenuous, you know, information war that destroys both sides makes both sides worse, ensures that both sides
elevate people who are willing to engage in that kind of thing, and cast out or cast down or ignores those who are on the right saying hey maybe Trump isn't a good guy or that or on the left saying hey maybe like, you know, 1000 fucking things left one acknowledged you know.
And it, and it, yeah, and it.
It's a problem it makes it difficult if like, you know, for those who wants to like discuss these issues and wants to refer to the facts of them and wants to engage in the kind of civic engagements that we have to have.
If we're gonna have a real society, which we're not going to.
Right.
Going back to what I was mentioning about George Soros a minute ago.
Yeah, that fucking cat out Jesus.
I never liked cats until I got one about two year and a half ago.
Now I like them.
Yeah, well anyways what I was thinking about George Soros is like he's always been to me like this phant fantastical figure of conspiracy theories and he was never anyone that I considered or even like thought about as being a real fucking person because he I never really did the research I just sort of heard of him from these fringe type people or these fringe conspiracy theory type people until I watched an Oliver Stone documentary.
Which is how I learned about the Hillary Clinton and the DNC being involved with the Ukraine and how Hillary was a part of this NGO that was funded by George Soros and how they were all connected to the Ukraine and the current president of the Ukraine trying to interfere with the election in 2016.
And it's like wow, like this guy actually does fund these NGOs that are connected to the DNC and they really didn't want Trump to be president and they obviously did want Hillary to be president.
I mean yeah, I mean that's something that's not even a secret. I mean the larger den's not a secret. George Soros has been very public for 20 or 25 years about his vision of the open society, he calls it the open society foundation, which might differ from a lot of art.
He's a centrist, he's a, he's a, he's a systemist, like he believes in working in the systems and, and whatever, and, and the Clintons of course are what they are.
And, you know, so I mean so it's not, it should not be surprising. And, you know, in terms of things, in terms of things that have occurred that George Soros might responsible for the Clinton might responsible for that small beings right there.
That kind of, that kind of, you know, that's, it gets much, much worse than that.
So you think George Soros doesn't even hold a candlestick to Peter Thiel in terms of sinister and malevol, sinister intentions and malevolence interfering with governments.
I couldn't, well, I couldn't say something because I have not, although I've been aware of George Soros for a long time.
I've never specialized in him. And so, although occasionally I've been, people have had people explain to me what their concerns are and Gen 21 and all these different things, you know, and I've had to sort of short through a little bit here and there.
What is legit and what is not. And, you know, I've never, you know, I've never seen, I've seen him someone who, you know, probably after the Cold War.
He was heavily involved in trying to democratize the countries that had been the former former Soviet countries that he'd emerged from, you know, the famous from.
And, and also, yeah, obviously, I mean, he's he's a he's a, he's a, the kind of figure that comes within the traditions of the American bipartisan consensus.
And he's just, for me, it's a very typical figure in that regard, whether it be the CIA, you know, heads, or Nixon, or, or, you know, Carter, or trial or trial trial commission types, or the Clintons or George Bush senior.
You know, it's, it's, I've always actually kind of been, I've never understood why he himself has been, has been, you know, obviously he funds, he's a major funder of the DNC and that kind of thing.
And he just, he just doesn't strike me as that much different from, you know, the Rockefellers or whatever I just don't, you know, I've just never seen the urgency of the exceptions, I mean, he's like the Koch brothers, but I'm also not that interested in
the Koch, because the Koch brothers are pretty straightforward. And again, also because the Koch brothers are well known and George Soros is well known.
Whereas Peter Thiel and Powell and certainly the events he's been involved in, because Peter Thiel's company specialized in information and disinformation.
They have been able to do a better job of ensuring that number one, a lot of the right, like libertarians thinking he's libertarian, which he's not. And number two, that a lot of the left never heard of him.
And the number three, the both Republicans and Democrats, as they did back in 2011, will protect him.
In 2015, as came out in the Podesta emails, this is something that's never been reported in any outlet that I happen to come across when I'm looking through them when I got a prison.
We learned that, you know, number one, we know we know that the Trump campaign approached Palantir to assist with them in the election and we know that they did.
Because Peter Thiel wanted them to what was not important is the Clinton campaign also approached Palantir for helping the election.
Both parties know how powerful Palantir is.
What Podesta did not realize is that although Alexander Karp who's the president CEO of Palantir for a while, although he is a centrist Democrat kind of thing or center left or a little bit whatever.
Peter Thiel is not.
He calls the shots there. That's why the Democrats didn't get help from Palantir, whereas Republicans got a lot of help from Palantir and Peter Thiel, both in a public sense and in a clandestine elicit sense involving Facebook,
Cambridge Analytica, the data mining scandal, General Flynn, some of the companies like Archimedes Global that we had looked into, you know, Stratford, General Flynn, you know, it's also one of the reasons why Mueller,
you know, and never had so forth when they went and investigated the election all that. And remember that Mueller commission was not just to investigate the Russian activity was to investigate all activity,
all this activity interfering with the 2016 election.
And the reason in 2017, the Mueller people leaks the Washington Post and few other outlets that they were that they were now looking at the couple of firms one with white canvas group, which was part led by General Flynn.
White canvas group happened to be one of the firms that we had looked into in 2011 2012 it was it was involved in the Romance coin projects that we that I wrote about in the Guardian 2011.
And, but beyond that, you never heard about what canvas group again. In fact, you heard very little in the Miller commission or the press about Palantir about our communities global about these firms.
Because Miller commission was invested in protecting the fact that they enabled these same people in the same companies that they defended these companies, including white canvas group run an Aaron bar my old my old arch enemy before Peter deal that they were the ones who
went after these groups, and went after sometimes illegally, those of us who are going after these groups. And so, after 2017 after that brief period, you see nothing about about Flynn's involvement.
See nothing about what canvas group pounder strapper, because here we have, you know, no one was Republican traditionally, but of course the Democrats were rooting for them thinking because they believe the FBI was really going to get the bottom of the
election interference because the FBI has always been a great defender of democracy.
So it's again so so what I'm saying is that
Yeah, what we're up against is not a, what we're up against is a is a citrus thing where there's, there are very few Republicans who won't help to protect this this secret apparatus and their own selves their own involvement and very few Democrats who won't.
And so the good news I guess for those who, for those who think that Democrats are the bigger threat. Well there's plenty of those to go after down the line.
And the good news for those things Republicans the bigger threat well there's plenty of those to you know, and then we can sort out the other bullshit later on.
But ultimately this system, and those who have supported its corruption who have who have been caught over and over again.
And the stuff that we've put out that's come out elsewhere, and the stuff that's going to come out.
It's going to be hard to ignore. Next year.
These things have to be responded to, or we're going to just hang it up and go home, you know, we're going to spend the next five years just pitching on Twitter, saying stuff and meanwhile companies that are very sophisticated will continue to do what they want to do and they'll
tell us what they want to tell us and a lot of people will believe it. And those of us who warned about 10 years ago getting proven right, we will be will be scrambling for the spotlight, you know, up against MSNBC, or fucking Tim pool, or, and you know,
Do you think you'd be in as extreme in your way of going about your work.
If you hadn't have gone if you hadn't gone to prison in the first place. Do you think going to prison for four years changed your outlook at all or changed you at all in any way.
Remember, I talked like this, the years before I got with the prison. It's part of why what's a prison, because I was identified by number of the adversaries. And sometimes we have we have leaks in which they're talking about this, whether it be Aaron Bar, some agree Mueller, who bragged about his involvement in the
operation that the FBI led and that led to me and me and others being prison. I was identified. And there's no way of saying this without bragging as a very severe potential threat, given my high, high pension for risk, given my ability to
gain power within organizations like anonymous, and given, yeah, given a number of other elements. So,
And again, I was, I was, yes, I was a militant before I went to prison. And I actually relaxed a bit in prison.
Well, I got a prison and I started learning more about who in the press was involved in squatting strangling in the crib, the results of our research, and of our leaks and so forth, and how many of them had risen up to the New York Times New Yorker, so forth, and learn more about who would
stab us in the back within our own groups. And all that, that's when I really went off the rails.
And I've calmed down since then, less, you know, year or so, because I know things have been set in motion, you know, that that are going to ensure that no one else can have to go through this again.
What was your, what can you describe what your experience, how old were you first of all, how old were you when you first went to prison?
I was, I guess I was 32.
32.
No, I was, I must have been 30.
And you said, and you said that they set you to the special housing unit, the shoe.
Also solitary confinement for like six months.
All together, I was, I was in there for a couple of two month stints, and then like three or four like weeks, one or two weeks, you know, for different things, including investigations.
An investigation into my involvement in a, what are they term it, it was a, an incidence, there, it wasn't a riot. It was a, it was a disturbance, whereby a number of us
refused to go into extra ourselves for lockdown until a certain officer was removed from our unit and not brought back. This officer is threatened an old man and the different races got together.
And the gang got together and said, you know, yeah, we don't like this.
So I'm going to stand off and meet a few others were identified by them as at least ringers and so held for two months in the shoe and then, you know, released with, you know, our commissary things revolved.
The punishment, of course, was being held in the shoe, you know.
And then another incident where they kind of found a morphine in my bloodstream and they gave me a random drug test and all that. And I went, you know, shoot again.
And then they transferred me another incident where they found more feet in your bloodstream.
Yeah.
Smuggled in.
I mean, well, in this case, this was, I mean, morphine. So there's medical unit.
Okay.
That was now was a low security prison in Fort Worth. I was at terrible, disgusting prison.
Anyway, and there was the medical unit. So a lot of the, you know, a lot of the disease dying or inmates and all that.
And there's people who work in the medical unit and there's morphine and other painkillers.
And those morphine painkillers make their way out of that area and back to those of us who will trade, who will buy them.
And yeah, then they take my blood and I had morphine.
And then another time this is actually captured is that there's a short documentary on you can see on YouTube called relatively free that Alex winner did.
Yeah, I saw that.
Yeah. And at the beginning, you know, I'm pulled off the phone for talking to him and put in the shoe for two weeks and, you know, other more incidents and I was doing an interview with a reporter in Houston.
And again, pulled off while they investigated to see if that was against the rules, which of course it wasn't blah, blah, blah. So I added six months all together, but usually not in solitary.
There's too much overcrowding for that.
You almost always have a cellmate in the cell in the shoe.
Oh, really?
Yeah, you and some guy living together in a small room about this size for a month, two months longer.
Yeah, and that was the documentary when where they basically they pick your parents picked you up and you're riding.
Alex winner in the film crew.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Drive to Dallas. We had a few hours to get there. Otherwise I'd be I'd be listed as they estimate how long it's take to get there.
The first estimate they gave me was it should take two and a half hours.
That was incorrect. It actually takes five hours to drive from them. So they were trying to.
Yeah. And so I had to go through the whole thing with them before my release. But no, that's not I'm not said that if you if you put that down as two hours, I'm going to go ahead and anyway.
So they had a lot of six hours, but we still had to had to get there in time. We'd arrive at the halfway house in time or I'd be listed as an escapee.
And don't make it easy for people who get out of prison to get back on their feet.
They make especially hard for certain of us. I mean, there's some they don't, you know, again, there's a reason I got six months.
I got six months halfway house, which is much more than most inmates get. And the reason for that is the same reason that one person kicked me out of the prison sent me to another prison.
The same reason that that prison also tried to kick me out to another prison. The BP wouldn't allow it. And it's the same reason, you know, because they don't want me there.
So I'm writing about the prison. And, and it's starting up trouble. So for me, I guess why that's why I got six months and halfway house because I was, you know, they wanted me out of there.
They were they were, you know, which I understand I'm an investigative journalist anarchist agitator. I'm in the middle of the prison. You know, some of the guards are talking to me about their experience they don't like, you know,
and so forth. So can you explain, I found this very interesting part of that. I don't know if this was that I think it's a different thing that I saw where you're explaining.
I believe it was called the pursuant project.
Yep.
Can you explain the project?
Explain that.
Yeah, the pursuant's projects was a nonprofit I started when I got out. I used to use a couple thousand dollars for my for my book advance to get started and then get a crowd crowdfunding later on.
We were trying to build something that I've been that I've been hoping that project PM itself before became what it became an investigation into into the intelligence community was originally set up to do was create a software apparatus.
That would allow
mass self organization among a certain constituency of people in a way that would allow that would maximize efficiency and essentially create a new and superior form of democracy, which I call process democracy, as opposed to institutional democracy.
It's not something I can, I can effectively or viably explained, but further, you know, a brief at a time it's something that up but it's something there's there's some speeches I've given on it presentations that are on YouTube to look up to us.
But the nonprofit I established was infiltrated it turns out.
Very quickly, I should have expected by number of people.
You know, and aside from that was attacked public NPR did a profile on me 2018 and on pursuant's claiming that pursuant's was a was a criminal organization that was involved.
Let people hire hackers to hack things.
And my probation officer came and visited me in a couple days later, and the NPR eventually had issue a bunch of corrections that article about 15 of them, including claim they made that strap for the company that I've been involved you know that I'd known about the hack of and went down for that has somehow been
involved in the been been lawden rate, and that the hack of it had somehow interfered with that strap for told NPR that because strap for works in PR both publicly and privately.
We know that from strap for emails we have stolen so we have the communication with NPR and they and some of their anyway.
So, that kind of stuff. It was the same kind of stuff the hip that was that was that was used against project PM both before and after I went to prison and endangered understand danger but sometimes led to help assist in prosecutions or you know whatever people I worked with and so does my first clue that
things are going to be difficult. Also, I don't make a lot of personal problems, you know, my CPTSD was kicking in. I was in a relationship with with with someone who had more than personality disorder.
Not as bad as I've ever heard, but but you know, a lot of shit happened and the DOJ was also prevented me from being paid by my publisher for the first seven months because they claim they had to figure out how much I owed restitution strap for a lot of
money. My relationship was going down. Then also I was reached. I did articles on the bottom gene shooting by Amber Geiger, a white police officer in Dallas, and a month later he started getting there's a bomb threat made to the magazine.
I wrote for again if people are there.
They've got fair brown bomb threat they can see a little bit about that I had to investigate this this bomb threat itself because the Dallas press, including my own editor.
The instructions of the Dallas police.
Keep it quiet. And then the same person who made the bomb under his own name on Facebook, continue to send as I mentioned, threats over and over again to
to my real friend and and even to assassinate better or work.
The, the, you know, Senate candidate governor with the fuck.
You know, unlike me, when I when I said I was shooting FBI agency came to my house, this person who the Secret Service would come after because a bit of better work was a pressure can at that point.
Never never got arrested in fact the police claim that they arrested and charges them they've claimed that to my city councilman Philip Kingston before to be the email, and then we're caught another audio recordings.
And eventually I
if anyone.
Anyway, there's a bunch of recordings I'm at eventually caught up with all these police officers and police officials had the head of the police department in Dallas and all that the head of the police association in Dallas and record them and and
again, got them to talk to me.
They bother you know there's a role that you should never never never never talk to cops.
There's another role that cops shouldn't talk to like metacops, which is kind of what I am.
And they did anyone. And so now as you'll see in my book when it comes out or if you want the manuscript.
We've got a lot of them dead to rights on this. Anyway, so yeah pursuance didn't do well.
I was not a very good leader of a image of an actual nonprofit. We were under a lot of a lot of pressure from and one of the people, at least one of the people who was brought on without my knowledge was the same person who had written an article about my about
me after my arrest, claiming that I was a hacker, and that I was probably an FBI cooperator.
This person was brought on to work a pursuance which was a media reform organization later on we found out more about this person who goes by rain coaster on Twitter, Lorraine, whatever.
She's also done a lot of other things for the daily dot other vastly inappropriate and probably illegal stuff in the course of her reporting for the outlet.
She's also cooperative and also was a good friend with some of the FBI cooperators who went up against me and against the now, now dead Kevin Gallagher.
That's what was one of the people who infiltrated the group, then there's Susie Dawson, who we don't know what her deal is, but she's someone that saw even the launch considers crazy.
As was leaked and with some of his messages, and who, but anyway, so just the last it just lost have happened and again and and our guy we hired to do the to build the software to be the lead developer.
He was.
I didn't want to fire him first because I'm just kind of a soft softy was hardly enough, but like our several my core nonprofit associates.
And then at least Burkhardt and Claire Peters, largely insisted that he be gotten rid of and a lot of our volunteer coders insisted this guy be got rid of Scott name his name is Steve Phillips.
And so we got rid of him, we paid a little bit extra money, you know, and then he went about engaging in some some behavior some activity that to undermine the group and it was just it was one thing after there's just tons of things that happened.
And then an article came out in Der Spiegel, German outlet, which is written seven articles about me, some of which contradict each other.
My favorite one is one in 2014 that says that Barrett Brown might not might not have to go to jail after all.
When of course I already been in jail for two years.
It just, again, people are incompetent in 20 beginning of very beginning of very beginning of 2020 I think Der Spiegel put an article claiming Barrett Brown used to be something something.
And now he spreads conspiracy theories and harasses women.
And they never pointed out which which women I harassed.
I even asked, I asked the writer, the author, I got touched or said, Hey, can you tell me more about my conspiracy theories what they are, and who I harassed.
And as far as we can tell, they're referring to Claire LeMond, the head of Colette.
Colette is a outlet that funds is funded by Peter deal.
And Claire LeMond had publicly claimed that I was harassing another Peter teal associate.
When I posted on Twitter is an article about this as well.
Just look up Barrett Brown, Claire LeMond or Barrett Brown, Colette or Barrett Brown, you know, Twitter ban claim that I was harassing a woman that worked here to deal what I posted on Twitter saying is anyone have any information on this person's name.
So again, so like, so.
And there's spiegel and they just be able to change the sub the sub headline didn't issue any correction didn't didn't acknowledge they changed it, but never came close to issue an apology or correction or again even identifying what woman it was that I harassed
supposedly.
And at that point I wrote an article for counter punch, which is an outlet that I'm very close to just saying hey, I'm done pursuing remaining. I'm closing pursuance down for now until I can better protect it.
Between this, you know, so I'm not going to have my people and myself.
I go down the same road where where any any fucking reporter feels comfortable working with, you know, my powerful enemies to write libel about me, or to claim like NPR did that all of our volunteers, and people would do people who had signed up.
I'm not going to sign up for pursuance that they were hackers are involved in crime activity, not going to do that going to close it down.
And I will read, you know, we'll get back to this effort to create this, this, this structure, this, this framework for for mass, you know, for civic collaboration for for crowdsource journalism all these things.
I feel that I'm able to defend it, especially as possible from those who keep getting away with making it easier for the police to come after us.
And so close it down at that point.
Wow.
You know, it's funny.
I just, I recently did a interview with a guy who was involved in a lawsuit with Hulk Hogan about regarding his sex tape.
And he was talking about how Peter teal.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I know about this.
Yeah.
So I had him on my podcast, like two, like three weeks ago or whatever.
And he was talking, you know, talking about how Peter Thiel funded Hogan to take down Gawker and basically dissolve Gawker.
Do you know why?
And that's that good.
The really funny thing about that is that Gawker back in 2011 2012.
That's where Adrian Chen and John Cook and Sam Biddle who worked for their other thing is moto.
That was the that was the place that that was the outlets where originated a lot of the false claims about me that they would later.
It would let it be changed to different forms were picked up by the outlets.
And where Adrian Chen at Gawker and others made fun of me for my interest in Palpunter and Peter Thiel, saying that the emails that we have good to work quote boring unquote is Adrian Chen.
Right.
So I found out from prison that Peter Thiel, the person that they had, you know, not worried about had successfully managed to close down their whole fucking out operation.
Well, I heard that it was because he had like a grudge against them because they.
Oh, no, they added him.
Yeah, no, it's again, they added him, you know, and Baba.
What I'm saying is that like, you know, they didn't consider Peter Thiel to be a threat to like, you know, media free speech.
Well, in fact, I mean, some of them did maybe they may have, but some of them were almost certainly working with the FBI at this point, Adrian Chen's one of them.
Right.
I say this because he comes up in the discovery files me and Jeremy Hammond and engages in
what would be the thing kind of things will be crimes if we had done them, including trying to try and to buy stolen emails from anonymous hackers, which is well beyond what I was prosecuted for.
Anyway, there's a lot more to that to the Adrian Chen thing.
Anyone who looks at my Twitter at at Proj PM PRO JPM, they'll notice a few hours ago, I just welcomed Adrian Chen back to Twitter.
He had been away for two years and just reminded reminded him of some certain things and some screenshots I have.
Anyway, do you know the funny thing is, is that the end they had they had done because because these attacks on me that started to gawk her because they spread around to the New York Times, the Atlantic.
You know, it's our outlets like it helps not only to discredit me and to make it easier for the FBI to come in and do to be from my case to be ignored and or seen as initially as less than what it was.
And because they protected Peter deal in that way.
They helped to create the conditions where about a few years later they'd all be out of jobs, because Peter deal, you know, mad at them for the other thing.
Right.
And so I had a good life at that about that from prison.
I heard of it.
Do you are you.
It would be sad otherwise if Gawker were like an actual organization that I that was not fucking garbage.
Right.
In this case, I was like, you know what?
Good job, Peter deal.
Are you actively trying to avoid being banned from Twitter?
Are you just are you just not giving a fuck in your daily interactions?
No, I am trying not to because I because when the book comes out, you know, I want to be able to best, best positions to to help, you know, market and so forth, make sure it's red, make sure the contents are seen, make sure it's discussed,
make sure the journalists and and other media professionals who are who make up the chief villains of the book, even, you know, even beyond Peter deal, make sure that they had the least chance of being able to escape scrutiny or hide from the
shit as they've been doing for years.
And so I want to keep that Twitter account.
Yes.
Is there is there any chance when your book comes out, you would come to the U.S. to help promote it?
If I was if I came with the about 30,000 Mombasa mercenaries and we were heavily armed, we're storming a beach and fucking had a. Yeah, absolutely.
I have that.
No.
That's hilarious, man.
Jesus Christ.
What a life you live, man.
I know it's not a joke.
I know it's I know you're serious.
Serious is a heart attack.
Anyways, thank you for doing this.
I it's been an incredible conversation.
I've learned a lot.
Tell people who are watching and listening where they can learn more about you or find what you're doing actively.
I know you just mentioned your Twitter, but is there anywhere else people can find your work and, you know, other things that you've published?
I think so.
That's right.
Just look up there.
Brown on Google.
They'll find Wikipedia page and watch stuff.
They'll find some links to column, you know, my prison columns, the one that won all the wars are one like to know that at prop PROJ PM.
That's my Twitter account.
And, you know, we stroll down through that.
You'll find lots of you'll feel you'll you'll get more of a sense of why I'm an active target of not just governments, but.
Yeah, a lot of other things.
But but hope again, hopefully.
That Twitter account will be quite active. I mean, I'm going to be posting things in the next six months.
If you look at the pins tweet there about the book release and what else got a company that you'll you'll get a sense that one of my intent intentions is to engage in a degree of psychological warfare against some people that are in the
book are reminding that they're in the book.
The book's coming out.
The book will be sent to people to position to act on these things.
Dallas is a good example.
Anyway, but bottom line is that if people want to be want to have some fun, they'll enjoy watching my Twitter account over the next six months.
And they'll enjoy that when the book comes out, even if they really buy it or not, the information itself will be will be mentioned in a number of outlets, you know, you know, online outlets and so forth.
And so no one has to pay a dime to see to see the shit go down.
Are you doing the book?
They want to get the book.
They'll enjoy it.
Are you going to do an audio version?
People like me.
In fact, in fact, they were going to have me do the go do the voiceover is going to be done by me.
They were going to have me go to LA to do that back in 2020 before COVID started and then, you know, blah, blah.
So I'm assuming I'm still going to be the one reading the audio version.
And of course, the big Kindle version, all that too.
Right.
Well, cool, man.
I'm really looking forward to it.
And I'm going to be paying attention to your Twitter account as well for the next six months.
I'm looking forward to to getting your book when it comes out.
Thanks again for doing this.
I really appreciate it.
No problem.
Thanks for driving me on.
