So, I picked him up at the airport, four o'clock in the morning.
We went straight to the office, and I said, here's the deal.
We think we found Abu Zubaydah.
He's like, you've got to be kidding me.
I said, I know, right?
I mean, we've narrowed it down, but he knows we're on his trail, and so we're like 24 hours
behind him.
We'll bust into a safe house, and all of his stuff is there, but he's gone.
We went into one safe house, and he had poured himself a cup of tea, and it was still hot,
but we couldn't quite get him.
So I said, you got to help us narrow it down.
I just don't know what else to do.
So he took this piece of butcher block paper about the size of this table, about the size
of a small American billboard, right?
And he wrote Abu Zubaydah in the center, and he circled it.
And then around the name Abu Zubaydah, he wrote all of the locational information that
we had for people in touch with Abu Zubaydah.
So around the name Abu Zubaydah were phone numbers, addresses, and email addresses.
And then around that, he made a tertiary level of all the information of people in touch
with the people who were in touch with Abu Zubaydah.
At the end of the week, it looked like a spider web.
It was actually very pretty, like an artwork.
And he came to me, and he said, I just cannot get it to any fewer than 14 sites.
I said, 14 sites?
We've never hit more than two in a night before.
We can't hit 14 sites simultaneously.
I said, I got to get a big team in here.
So I cabled headquarters, and I said, I need 36 people.
I need a plane load of guns and ammunition.
I need $2 million in cash.
I made this whole list of all this stuff.
Why $2 million in cash?
Because I'm going to start throwing lots of money at lots of people.
Bribing people?
Mm-hmm.
I'll bribe everybody in the country that I need to bribe.
And we needed to start buying safe houses, right?
If we knew that he was in Lahore, Faisalabad, Karachi, Islamabad, we can't be seen like
leaving the embassy, driving to Pakistani intelligence.
We need to be discreet.
We all grew these long, bushy beards.
In the embassy, they called me the Archbishop, because mine came in all gray, right?
It was really long.
And we dressed as Pakistanis, the big balloon pants and the flat pancake hats.
So just two days later, this completely unmarked 737 lands at the airport and 36 guys get off,
half CIA, half FBI, and then pallets and pallets of equipment.
It took us hours to unload this plane.
And I went to introduce myself to the Pakistani intelligence officer in charge in Faisalabad.
And he said, what do you need for me to help you with?
And I said, I need a real estate agent.
So he got us a real estate agent.
We bought two houses.
We bought a 10-bedroom, 10-bath house in Lahore, figuring we could use the bedrooms to interrogate
the prisoners.
And then we bought a seven-bedroom, seven-bath house in Faisalabad.
It was a doctor's house, I remember.
And then we started briefing the team, you know, here's what we're going to do.
Here's what the plan is.
We got 14 sites.
We're going to have to hit every one of them simultaneously.
And I said, it's never been done before, and the risk is high, right?
I mean, it's like really high.
Not all of us may make it back.
So on the night of the raid, my colleague who I was closest to, he and I, I'm skipping
a lot of this story because it's so long.
He and I were walking back to the safe house, and he said, what do you think?
You think we're going to get him?
And I said, no.
I think we're going to get somebody, but I don't think we're going to get him.
He's too smart.
He's outsmarted us at every step of the way so far.
So that day, we decided to drive.
It was my colleague and me, the Pakistani colonel, and the targeting analyst.
The targeting analyst dropped off and went back to the safe house.
But we started going to every one of the 14 sites just to make sure we weren't
being set up.
There was ingress and egress.
We weren't going to be ambushed.
Like what happens if everything turns to shit?
Are they going to be able to shoot at us from the roofs?
How high are these buildings?
So the first one we went to, we realized was a mistake.
It was a Shish kebab stand with a pay phone.
And clearly there was al-Qaeda living in the neighborhood.
Whenever they needed to make a call, they'd go to the pay phone.
But the Shish kebab stand closed at midnight.
There's nobody there.
You can't raid this Shish kebab stand.
You're not going to get anything.
So we cut it off the list.
So we have 13 left.
And most of these places were just one room mud huts, concrete block, little poor people's
houses with corrugated tin roofs.
And then we came upon this huge house.
It was bright yellow.
And just as we're coming up to it, the targeting analyst calls me.
And he says, I just got a call from a friendly Western intelligence service.
And they said that they had a walk-in this morning.
A walk-in is somebody who literally walks in off the street and says, I have intelligence
information, but I want you to pay me for it.
99% of the time, they're lunatics or potential terrorists or probes, like from the Iranians
or the Russians or the North Koreans, just to see where are the cameras?
Are the windows bulletproof?
How thick are the doors?
Who's armed?
We all do this to each other.
Wow.
Yeah.
Just in case they want to attack our embassy.
That's spooky.
Yeah.
It happens all the time.
It's very dangerous.
So he said that this friendly intelligence service said that there is a large congregation
of al-Qaeda fighters and they're in a big yellow house.
And I said, holy shit.
I said, I'm right in front of the yellow house.
It's site number 12.
And he said, well, then that has to be it.
I said, I want to talk to the source.
I want to talk to the walk-in.
And he said, I already asked and they said no, which made me think that there wasn't
a walk-in, that it was an intercept.
But they didn't want us to know that they were intercepting al-Qaeda's communications.
Why wouldn't they want you to know?
Because we would try to take it.
Take over their tap.
And there are a lot of pissing matches in intelligence.
Not just between the CIA and the FBI, but then between the CIA and all of its allies
and friends.
It's so funny.
It's awful.
The politics involved is ridiculous.
So then I said to the Pakistan colonel, I said, we're going to have to put a big team
on this one.
And he said, I can tell you that something bad is going on in that house.
I said, how do you figure?
He said, it has to be 110 degrees right now.
And all of their shutters are closed.
He said, it has to be broiling in there.
They have something to hide.
So I said, OK, we'll put a bigger team on that one.
So that night at 10 o'clock, I stood on the coffee table in the safe house.
And it was all 36 of our guys, plus the original 10, those of us who were there already, plus
all the Pakistanis.
So we've got, I don't know, 60 guys.
And I said, at the risk of sounding melodramatic, we're going to have to synchronize our watches.
Like in the movies.
So we synchronized our watches.
10 o'clock, I still remember.
And I said, look, here's what we're going to do.
We actually chartered a bus to put everybody on this bus and take them to Faisalabad, because
that's where most of the targets were.
Three of the targets were in Lahore, and the other 10 targets were in Faisalabad.
And Faisalabad is just one of the most horrible places on earth.
And believe me, I've been to 68 countries with the CIA.
There aren't many worse places on earth than Pakistan.
Wow.
Yeah, it's bad.
And I've been to Yemen and Somalia, and I've been to some of the most horrible places on
the planet and Pakistan's worse.
So anyway, I said, here's the plan.
0138, get out of the car and exactly at 0200, break down the door, separate all the women
and children from the men and make sure all of the men are cuffed.
And I said, because this is an open criminal investigation, our friends from the FBI are
going to begin collecting evidence, which was total horseshit, let me tell you.
The difference between the CIA and the FBI is the FBI goes in and they put little sticky
notes on the four walls, wall one, wall two, wall three, wall four.
And they open all the drawers and they take pictures of what's inside the drawers.
Then they look for papers and they collect all the papers because they're going to build
a case.
CIA, you go in, you bust down the door, you grab all the guys and you send them to Guantanamo.
That's hilarious.
So my colleague and I were on the roof of the safe house at 0200.
And I said to him, I looked at my watch and I said, 0200, here we go.
And just as I said it, we heard this sound in the distance, boink, boink, boink, like
metal on metal.
And I said, that's not good.
It's two o'clock in the morning, right?
Nobody in the country is awake.
And then we hear shots fired.
And I said, oh man, that's really not good.
So I got on the walkie-talkie.
We knew that that big yellow house was the nearest, physically nearest to us.
So I said, site 12, come in, what's going on over there?
And the guy's like, shots fired, shots fired.
Well, we knew that.
Also rule number one in intelligence operations is the walkie-talkies always die, right?
They never, ever work.
We used to, I actually went to NSA when I got back.
They wanted to do this lessons learned thing, because this was the first successful major
capture post 9-11.
And I said, please, I said, you guys are all geniuses here, right?
You build these computers, these super computers, we don't even know what they do.
You put satellites.
You can't make a battery that doesn't die after an hour.
Come on.
Like seriously.
It's funny, the most obvious things are the things that suck the most.
Yeah.
So we run downstairs, we jump in the car, we speed over to the yellow house, and it's
chaos.
One of the things I told the, I told the Pakistanis just before we kicked off, I said, we have
to take him alive, right?
My orders were very specific.
We have to take him alive.
So don't shoot unless you're being shot at.
It was clear to everybody.
So we get there, chaos.
One guy is dead, laying dead in the street.
I can show you some pictures, I have them on my phone.
Another guy looks like, if he's not dead, he's going to be dead in five minutes.
And another guy is screaming bloody murder and has, he's completely soaked in blood.
And these are their guys or your guys?
Their guys.
Okay.
I said, what the fuck happened?
And this Pakistani policeman says to me, we got him.
We got your man.
I said, why'd you shoot them?
He said that they were jumping from the roof of the house to the roof of the other house
to escape.
And so he shot them.
So the first one to jump, first of all, the boink, boink, boink we heard was the door
was reinforced with steel and it should have just splintered with the first hit.
This they were working on, you know, the whole time, Abu Zubaydah, a Syrian bomb maker and
his, and Abu Zubaydah's bodyguard were on the second floor.
On the first floor, there were, I'm still not allowed to say the number.
There were several dozen fighters, a kind of fighters on the first floor.
Why wouldn't you be allowed to say the number?
They still will not allow me to say the number of people captured.
Wow.
Yeah.
It was many dozens.
So the guys on the first floor didn't know who was on the second floor.
They knew it was a VIP because there was a kid, they call him a tiwala.
This kid would, he was working for them and every day he would go to the market and buy
food and he would cook for them and he would make tea and they were cut off from everybody
on the first floor.
They knew that somebody important was upstairs and they wondered if it was Bin Laden.
Huh.
Yeah.
So when we started breaking down the door, Abu Zubaydah and the other two went to the
roof, tried to jump to the roof of the next door house and this idiot Pakistani policeman
just starts picking him off with an AK-47.
The first, the first guy that jumped was the Syrian bomber and this was a bad guy.
When we got onto the second floor of that house, he had all of his bomb making stuff
on the table, explosives and everything.
The soldering iron was still hot because he was making the bomb and he had the plans to
the British school on the table.
He was going to blow up the school, this is how bad these people were.
So he jumped, the Pakistani guy shot him, killed him instantly.
He was dead before he hit the ground.
The second one to jump was Abu Zubaydah and the guy shot him in the thigh, the groin and
the stomach.
And he was bleeding out.
The third guy, the Pakistani policeman told me, he shot him through the leg, right through
the center of his femur.
So I said, so which one's my guy?
This one, the middle one, who was bleeding out.
I said, that, that doesn't look anything like Abu Zubaydah.
We had a six year old passport photo of Abu Zubaydah.
He was a young, thin, good looking, you know, short bearded mustache, closely trimmed.
How old?
He was 24 maybe in this picture, 22.
I said, this guy, he doesn't look anything like the picture.
This guy was fat, clean shaven, crazy Albert Einstein hair going all every direction.
So I called the targeting analyst and I said, listen, it's chaos here.
The Pakistanis shot a bunch of guys.
They say we got him, but this guy doesn't look anything like Abu Zubaydah.
And I don't know what to do.
And he said, do a retinal scan, right?
Take a picture of his, of his eye, email it to me and I'll, I'll run a retinal scan.
So I, I knelt down over him and I shouted, if the hayunik, open your eyes, if the hayunik.
But his eyes were rolled back in his head.
I could just see the whites of his eyes.
I, I couldn't see anything.
He was dying.
And I said, his eyes are rolled back in his head.
I can't see anything.
And he said, give me a picture of his ear.
I didn't know until that night that no two people on earth have the same ears.
They're like fingerprints.
Huh.
Yeah.
So I took a picture of his ear.
Of course, these are the days when phones didn't have cameras.
So I took a picture, I plugged the camera into the phone.
I sent the picture to the analyst.
He sends it to CIA headquarters.
Then they respond, it's him.
So I said to my colleague, I said, listen, he's going to die.
We got to get him to a hospital.
So we threw him into the back of this filthy Toyota pickup truck, little tiny pickup truck
called the Toyota cherry.
There he is.
The picture right there on the, on the right in the center.
That one, that one.
Yeah.
That's the passport photo that we had.
Okay.
And he was six years older than that when you captured him.
Yes.
And 50 pounds heavier.
Why does he get the eye patch in that photo?
Yeah.
The eye patch.
Is that, is that a result of torture?
Advanced interrogation.
Enhanced interrogation.
When he was fighting the Soviets, he got a shrapnel wound in his eye and he was blinded
in one eye.
Okay.
And then as part of his torture, we drugged him one day and we took his eyeball out, which
is a human rights violation.
It's a crime against humanity.
We didn't even ask him.
We didn't even tell him.
They just gassed him.
And then when he woke up, he had no eyeball.
So they gave him a post.
Oh, well, he was under.
Yeah.
Holy shit.
So they gave him a prosthetic eyeball that he has steadfastly refused to wear because
he said that we stole his eye.
And so he insists on wearing the patch.
Patch looks pretty cool though.
It does actually look pretty cool.
So you were standing over this guy right here in the middle of the street at 2am while he
was dying, bleeding out.
Yeah.
We rushed him to Faisalabad hospital.
The worst place I've ever been in my life.
This hospital, the windows are open, the doors are open.
There are like dogs and cats just walking up and down the halls.
There are clouds of mosquitoes feasting on people's open wounds.
It was disgusting.
And then they had this bar of Irish spring soap with needles coming out of it.
And if you needed a shot, they'd take one of the syringes.
They'd give you your shot and then stick it back in the bar of soap.
So here we are.
There are like six Americans dressed as Pakistanis with an Arab who's bleeding to death.
We take him into the emergency room and I said to the doctor, I said, you've got to
patch him up.
My orders were to take him alive.
And the guy's like looking at me like, what, what's going on?
We were like, come on, let's go.
So they rush him into surgery and the rest of us just sat down to wait.
How long did the surgery take?
Well, that was kind of a problem.
Word got around the al-Qaeda community that we had gotten him.
And so they started driving by the hospital and just opening fire on the hospital.
And we're diving down on the ground while he's in the middle of surgery because they
knew we were in there with him.
So I said to the colonel, if they realize how lightly armed we are, we're dead.
When you get a helicopter in here, and he said, I think so.
So he makes a couple of calls, 20 minutes later, this helicopter lands in the parking
lot.
I put my shirt up over my mouth like this.
I walked into the operating room and I said, doc, wrap it up.
We got to go.
So they sew him closed.
We wheel him out onto the parking lot and put him on the helicopter.
And we flew to a Pakistani military base about 50 miles away.
Now, the base was kind of funny.
It had a small, not really a hospital, so much it was like a clinic, like a surgical
clinic.
It had eight beds.
It was in a circle.
And the nurse's station was the hub of the wheel.
And then eight beds were the spokes, right?
And I noticed there was a chart that had each patient's name and why he was in there.
And every one of the patients was in there for an attempted suicide, which was nuts
to me.
But they had this bed open, two beds open.
And so we took him in.
They took him straight into surgery.
So at one point, the doctor came out and he said to me, it was funny, because he didn't
know who the prisoner was.
He didn't know who I was.
But this intelligence colonel said, these are VIPs.
You got to do what they say.
So he comes out and he's like, look, I don't know what this is about, but I'm going to
tell you I have never seen wounds so severe where the patient lived.
So you may want to tell your people that this is probably not going to be a good outcome.
So I called the targeting analyst, and he called headquarters.
They were like, do what you can.
So while he was in surgery, an ambulance arrived with the bodyguard who had been shot through
the leg.
And he's screaming, he's crying.
So I've already been up 24 hours at this point.
And my orders, and these were directly from George Tenet, the CIA director, 247 CIA eyes
on.
Those were his exact words, 247 CIA eyes on.
Don't let the fucking FBI sit there and take over.
He's our prisoner, not the FBI's prisoner.
While he's in surgery, I'm so sleepy already, I decide to walk around this little clinic.
And I hear the guy screaming and crying in the other room.
So I went over to him and I said, Kefalak, how are you?
And he goes, he's crying and goes, Alhamdulillah, glory to God.
And I said, yeah, you don't look so good.
And he says, are you American?
And I said, yeah, we captured you.
And he says, the Pakistanis, the dogs, they captured me, and then they held me down, and
then they put an AK-47 on my leg and they shot me.
And I said, that's not what I heard.
I heard you were jumping from the roof of the house to the roof of the next door house
to escape.
And he stops crying and he says to me, look at me, I am 150 kilos.
I cannot jump from the roof.
It's like 330 pounds.
And I pull the sheet back.
I'm going to find the pictures and show you.
I pull the sheet back and he is not just soaked in blood, but there is a perfect burn mark,
like the size of a dinner plate around his leg.
They held that AK right on his skin and pulled the trigger.
So the doctor told me, we're going to have to amputate the leg.
And I said, well, that's unfortunate.
They ended up saving the leg, but the guy is never going to walk normally again.
Oh my God.
Yeah, it was pretty awful.
And it was the Pakistani soldiers that did that?
Yeah, because the guy pissed them off.
You know, he wouldn't give up.
So they shot him.
God.
It was bad.
It was bad.
So they didn't end up, they did not amputate his leg.
They did not amputate his leg.
But I'm sure it completely shattered his femur.
Oh my God.
The damage.
It was disgusting.
I'm looking for these pictures while I'm talking to you.
And it's amazing.
He didn't bleed out.
It was incredible.
Well, I mean, Abu Zubaydah as well, obviously.
And speaking of Abu Zubaydah, not bleeding out, when he came out of surgery, okay, here,
it's not a very good picture, but that's the bomb maker.
He's clearly dead.
He's dead in that picture.
He's on a morgue table in that picture.
And that's the bodyguard.
Oh my God.
As you can tell, there was some significant bleeding.
Yeah.
And then.
That is brutal.
It was bad.
Really bad.
I'm going to find Abu Zubaydah for you.
And here's Abu Zubaydah after we threw him in the back of the pickup truck.
As you can see, he looks nothing like that picture.
No.
Wow.
He looks totally different.
Totally completely different.
And I'll tell you what, I saw.
And was that by design?
Was he doing it?
Yeah.
It was a disguise.
Right.
Uh-huh.
I saw my whole career just like go up in smoke.
I was like, who the heck is that?
Right.
So anyway, they finally bring him out of surgery.
And I was really, really tired.
And so I was afraid I was going to fall asleep.
And I'm thinking, is the doctor secretly al-Qaeda?
Maybe the doctor's going to break him out?
Or maybe he's not as badly wounded as I think he is.
And I'm going to fall asleep.
And then he's going to get up and run away.
So I tore a sheet into strips.
And I tied him to the bed by the wrists and the ankles.
He was bleeding so profusely.
This was after surgery?
After surgery.
OK.
He was bleeding so profusely that it was actually pooling under the bed.
I've said before, it was like a scene from a horror movie.
I've never seen anything like it in my life.
He was soaked in blood.
We had blood all over us.
It's in this giant puddle underneath the bed.
So they had this pump.
I had never seen anything like this before.
You know how they have blood just dripping into your arm?
Well, they attached a pump to it.
So it's forcing the blood into your arm
like at this greatly accelerated rate.
Because he was bleeding so badly
that they had to replace the blood as quickly as possible.
To keep him alive.
Yeah, just to keep him alive.
And he was in a coma.
And the doctor's like, I don't think he's going to make it.
So I sat there with my arms crossed at the foot of his bed.
And I just stared at him.
I just stared at him.
And I put the ceiling fans on full blast
to make it slightly uncomfortable
so that I wouldn't fall asleep.
And then during the night, I called a buddy of mine
at the safe house.
And I said, man, would you do me a favor?
I said, I'm frigging starving, first of all.
I said, there's about to eat abuzebeta.
I know, right?
I'm starving.
And I said, I'm really dirty.
I smell really bad.
I've got a clean shirt and a pair of underwear.
Can you bring them to the hospital from the safe house?
So a couple hours later, he comes.
He's got these little cheese crackers and peanut butter
crackers in the pack.
He had a couple of those.
He had a thing of orange juice.
And there was a red t-shirt that my kids
had bought me for Christmas with SpongeBob SquarePants on it.
Like the decal, you know?
And he gave me my clean underwear.
So I got changed.
And then the next day, he started to stir just a little bit.
And so I stood up at the foot of his bed,
and I was looking down on him.
And I say in my, I did it again.
I'm sorry.
I think you're good.
I say in my first book, you could tell the exact instant
that he realized, oh my god, the Americans have me.
Because he's hooked up to all these machines,
and his heart rate is 110, right?
And when he opens his eyes, he doesn't look at my face.
He looks at SpongeBob.
And his heart rate went to 220.
And the machine starts going, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep,
beep, beep, beep, beep.
And then you hear Code Blue, Code Blue, Bay One, Code Blue.
And then they rush in, and they shock him, you know, clear.
I had never seen this before, except on TV, right?
Clear, they shock him, and then they
give him this shot of demoral that they put right
into the drip, and then he was out again.
That poor bastard woke up and saw SpongeBob for the first time
after being blown away by an AK-47.
Yeah, yeah.
It was too much for him.
So he was out for another six or eight hours.
He saw SpongeBob, and he knew he was fucked.
He knew he was fucked.
It was over.
Finally, he opens his eyes.
And again, I've got him tied to the bed
by the wrists and the ankles.
So he's laying there like this.
And he opens his eyes, and he goes like this,
like motioning for me to come near him.
So I go right next to him.
Like I put my ear right next to his mouth,
and I moved his oxygen mask off to the side.
And I said, Shuismec, what is your name?
And he shook his head.
So I said again, Shuismec.
And he said to me in English, I will not
speak to you in God's language.
And I said, that's OK, Abu Zubaydah.
We know who you are.
And he starts crying, and he says, please, brother, kill me.
Take the pillow and kill me.
And I said, nobody's going to kill you.
We've been looking for you for a long time.
He said, what's going to happen to me?
And I said, honestly, I don't know.
But I'm going to give you some advice.
I'm the nicest guy that you're going
to meet in this experience.
My colleagues, they're not nice like I am.
So if there's one thing that you do,
it's that you have to cooperate.
And he said, you seem like a nice man, but you're the enemy,
and I'll never cooperate.
I said, suit yourself.
So I sit back down.
He wants to talk.
What happened?
I said, well, you're jumping from the roof.
He remembered going to the roof.
I said, you tried to jump, and Pakistani guys shot you.
And I said, you're severely wounded.
It's going to take a long time for you to recover.
But listen, you should take this time to do the right thing.
A lot of people are going to ask you a lot of questions,
and you have to be honest.
And he said, no, that he didn't know anything about 9-11,
that all he ever wanted to do was kill Jews, he said,
that he didn't want to attack the United States.
He wanted to attack Israel, and they outvoted him.
We talked, you know, one of the things that we captured
that night was his diary.
And books have been written.
Two books have been written about his diary.
One of the FBI psychologists said it
was the rantings of a madman.
It's like, well, clearly you and I
didn't read the same diary, right?
Because really what it was, it was more of a doodle book
than anything else.
He would doodle, draw pictures, and he would write poems.
He recited a lot of his poetry to me.
You read it?
Oh, yeah.
All of it.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
OK.
And then I consulted on one of the books.
So one of the things that he did, and this is weird,
he's a strange guy.
You know, he's not a guy that you're
going to want to go out and have a beer with.
Sorry to interrupt.
How old was he at this time?
When you captured him?
30?
29 or 30?
29 or 30, OK.
He had this weird thing that he would do,
where he would write letters to himself as a young man
or as a teenager.
So it's the 30-year-old Abuzabeta
writing to the 14-year-old Abuzabeta
and giving himself advice to his past self.
To his past self.
Listen, you should have done it this way.
Oh, you shouldn't have gone out with those guys.
They were bad guys.
You know?
You should have been kinder to your mother on this day.
Stuff like that.
It was weird, but it was expressive.
He's a very artistic kind of person.
So you draw these pictures, and he would write poems,
and he would write a scene from a play,
and then he would write a letter to himself.
And the FBI is like, clearly, he's insane.
It's like, no, he's not freaking insane.
It's a doodle book.
So anyway, oh my god, how we fought about that for years.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, because they said he was insane.
Anyway.
Well, he was just a kid.
Yeah, he was a kid.
Right?
I don't know how old you are, but now, I mean, in my mind,
I'm still 20, but I'm actually 57.
And I have to remind myself, you're not 20 anymore, right?
I wish I was.
And I think back on things that I would have done differently.
I've never actually written it down anywhere,
but sometimes people do.
So what happened to him after that?
After that visit with him in the hospital
when you were talking to him?
Well, I never left.
I never left.
And then finally, one of my colleagues came and said,
listen, we got to get him ready to go.
They're sending a plane in.
And I said, where's he going to go?
And my friend is like, I don't have any idea.
So I told him, I said, listen, we're
going to take you out of this place,
and you're going somewhere else.
And he said, are they going to kill me?
And I said, no.
I said, I don't know what's going to happen to you,
but I can guarantee that you are going
to get the best medical care that the American government can
provide.
And I'm going to tell you again, you have to cooperate.
And I said, I don't mean to sound.
They really wanted to keep him alive.
Oh, yeah, they did.
They had big plans for him.
I said, I don't mean to sound cruel, but your life is over.
It's over.
You'll never be free again.
And so the rest of it can be easy, or it can be terrible.
And it's up to you.
So I told him a plane is coming, and it's
going to take you to someplace else.
I don't know where that is.
So he asked me if I would hold his hand.
So three FBI agents and I picked him up, his gurney.
I'm holding his hand with one hand,
and holding on to the gurney with the other.
We take him out to the plane, and we
had to lift him up to a standing position
to maneuver him onto the plane.
And then we laid him across the luggage rack at the back,
and we tied the gurney down to the luggage rack.
And I said, I leaned over, and I said, remember,
you have to cooperate.
And he squeezed my hand, and I said, good luck.
And then as I'm getting off the plane,
one of these CIA dudes who was wearing completely
black with a black hood, he says to me, John?
And I go, yeah, who are you?
And he lifts up his hood.
Why was he wearing a hood?
Everybody was wearing hoods.
Yeah, it's weird.
They didn't want to be recognized.
This was the rendition team.
So this is like the most secret of all the secret things
that the CIA does, these international kidnappings.
So they didn't want him to see their faces.
And I said, who are you?
And he lifts up his mask just a little bit,
and he was my last boss at the CIA.
He goes, what are you doing here?
No shit.
Yeah, and I said, oh, I said, man, we've been doing raids.
We got this as our first HVT, high value target.
And he said, who is he?
And I said, dude, I'm sorry.
You don't have a need to know.
I'm not allowed to say who he is.
And he said, no, no, that's cool.
I said, where are you taking him?
And he goes, oh, dude, you don't have a need to know.
I'm so sorry.
I said, no, no, no, I said, Godspeed, wherever you're going,
I hope you have safe travels.
And then he took off, and I never saw him again.
But he was going to Guantanamo.
No.
No.
No, no, no.
It was years before he got to Guantanamo.
Really?
So he went to one of those black sites.
He went to six of those blacks.
Six of the black sites.
Now, what's the deal with the black sites, the CIA black sites?
Well, for people who don't know what they are,
they sound so fucking mysterious.
And they are.
This is bad.
This is how secret this is.
A black site is a secret facility,
usually housed on a foreign military base, right?
I'm not allowed to say any of the countries,
even though they've all been reported on in the media,
the CIA has never admitted to the existence of black sites.
And so I can't confirm their locations,
but I can say Google it and the locations.
So many of these black sites, the presidents
and prime ministers of the countries that they were in,
had no idea that they were there.
Really?
These were secret, unwritten, handshake agreements
between the director of the CIA and the director
of that country's intelligence service.
So in many cases, even the ministers of defense
didn't know that these secret CIA torture facilities
were on their military bases in their countries.
That's how secret they were.
And then if somebody would say, oh,
what's that building over there?
We haven't used that building in years,
and I've been seeing people coming in and out of it lately.
Two days later, buildings abandoned.
Everybody's in a different country.
That's what they would do.
So you go from country A to country B to C, D, E, F,
all over the world.
The CIA has been doing this stuff for decades, right?
I mean, all the way back to those LSD experiments
they were doing tests on people in different countries
just because they didn't want to violate the laws.
That's right.
Yeah.
I went back to the safe house.
I slept for a while after Abu Zubedah took off.
I went back to the safe house.
And there was one incident that happened
that I was 1,000% right about that
dogged me later when I got back to headquarters.
We had done that night.
One of the raids that we did was a mistake.
It was a girl's school in a private house.
And what happened was this house was an old man in his 70s
and his two sons and their wives.
They had the only phone in the neighborhood.
And so people would come over and say, hey, can I use the phone?
And the old man would say, sure, give me five rupees.
They'd give him five rupees.
They make a call.
They're calling Osama bin Laden.
So we were like, oh, my god, that phone, that house,
it's like a headquarters of al-Qaeda.
We bust down the door.
We grab this old man and his sons.
And they were scared shitless, right?
So there was this idiot working for me.
And he brings them to the safe house.
He's got his three prisoners cuffed behind their backs.
And they have these black hoods on.
And I said, why are they hooded?
He goes, why are they hooded?
We don't want them to see our faces.
And I said, are you seriously fucking telling me
that you have never read the Geneva Convention?
It is a war crime to hood your prisoners.
Take the hoods off.
And he goes, dude, if you take those hoods off,
I'm reporting you to headquarters.
I said, I'm reporting you to headquarters
for committing a war crime.
Now take the hoods off.
So I pulled the hoods off.
Turns out these three guys were completely
innocent of anything.
They just happened to have the only phone in the neighborhood.
So I said to the Pakistanis, what
can I do to make it right for these people?
Because this is going to be a PR disaster.
This is like the most secret thing we've done in 20 years.
And these guys are going to tell everybody
the Americans broke down the door in my house.
They took me.
They put hoods on me and my kids.
And it was awful.
And he said, give them $100 each.
So I said to the old man, I said, sir,
we've made a terrible mistake.
And on behalf of the president of the United States,
I apologize to you and to your family.
And I hope that you will take this money
to repair the damage that we've done to your home.
And he said that he accepted my apology.
The very next day, there he is on the news, the Pakistani news,
standing in front of the destroyed door.
And he said, it was the Americans.
They broke down the door of my house.
They took my sons and me.
We don't know where we were.
But they were very polite.
And they bought us new shoes.
So it kind of went away.
It was a one day story.
Wow.
Yeah.
Oh, so I get back to headquarters.
And they reamed me out because I took the hoods off.
And I said, it's a war crime.
Why does nobody understand this?
You know, there are rules for these kinds of things
that we're doing.
If we're really the good guys, then let's be the good guys.
And these are all Pakistani guys you're talking to?
No, they're Americans.
They're all our people.
OK.
Yeah.
And you didn't think it was weird
that you were the only guy that was really worried about?
I just figured they were all retards.
Oh, OK.
But you were the only one that was worried about the hoods?
Like, no one outside even batted an eye at it.
Yeah, no.
They're like, who cares?
They're our prisoners.
They're terrorists.
We're the good guys.
Don't you think it's weird?
I always thought it was super strange how just after you
tell that story about Abu, what's his name?
Zubeda.
Abu Zubeda.
That bin Laden, when they captured bin Laden,
they killed him instantly, right?
They never had any intention of taking him alive.
Is it weird to you that they never brought his body back
to the US?
No.
No, I would have expected that they would destroy the body.
Really?
I was hoping.
A lot of my colleagues and I hoped
that they would bring him back alive.
Because, I mean, talk about the triumph of law and order,
right?
Talk about the triumph of a constitutional democracy.
Ah, it would just bloom away.
Which is fine, too.
I mean, the guy committed horrible crimes
and killed thousands of Americans.
But I was hoping that we could set an example
for the rest of the world by putting him on trial,
finding him guilty, and executing him.
I thought, I just thought, I mean, I could be wrong,
but I thought it was standard practice to even if we do get
and kill, we kill those high value targets that we bring
their bodies back to give them to autopsy and do DNA.
Normally, yes.
Well, the DNA, we took DNA.
See, his family, the Bin Laden family
is one of the most important merchant
families in Saudi Arabia.
They're worth many billions of dollars.
And they have the biggest construction company in the kingdom.
They do the big stuff, like airports and ports and interstate
highways.
Is it currently like that, too?
They're still the biggest family.
Oh, wow.
I know his sister or his daughter or something
lives in Israel or something.
There's one that lives here in Orlando.
Really?
There's one that lives in Beverly Hills.
There's one that lives in.
Are these children of his?
OK.
Not of Osama, of the old man, Abdul Rahman.
Oh, of his dad.
OK.
Yeah.
Yeah, he had like 65 sons and 40-something daughters.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah, a whole bunch of wives.
And Osama's the one that went bad.
So as soon as it was clear that it was al-Qaeda that did 9-11,
his family just volunteered.
Like, we want to give you DNA.
So when you kill him, you can be sure that it's him.
We said, great.
Because when you get hit with one of these drone rockets,
there's going to be a shoulder over there and a foot over there
and some scalp over there.
It's not like you can look at the body and say, oh, that's
Osama bin Laden.
He's in pieces, normally.
Right.
So we had the DNA.
But the reason why they threw the body overboard.
Is that what they did?
They threw it off a ship?
Yeah.
Yeah, they flew it out to a ship.
Why the fuck would they do that?
Because they didn't want it to become a source of reverence.
They didn't want it to be a mecca for terrorists
or inspirational for terrorists.
So they figured if they destroyed it,
there'd be no place for anybody to go to revere it.
How would it inspire terrorists if we did an autopsy on them?
Well, it's the same reason that Hitler was the Soviets
cremated Hitler and threw his ashes in a river.
You just don't want people.
You don't want a rallying point for people.
And we didn't really need the autopsy,
because we had the DNA.
You could just sort of do a pseudo autopsy later.
Right.
Yeah, they had a Muslim cleric on board,
a naval chaplain who's a Muslim.
And he did all the funeral prayers.
They wrapped him up in a shroud,
and they threw him over the side.
Wow.
The pictures are video of it or anything.
No, in fact, the president was very, very specific about that.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
But even though we showed video of Hussein being hung.
Yeah, well, that slipped out.
One of the executioners did it on his phone.
That wasn't official.
That was also pretty brutal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hey, John, can you speak to his right?
Sorry.
To his right?
Yeah.
Perfect.
OK.
Yeah, weird stuff.
It's crazy.
What were we just talking about?
The body going over board.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, the body.
So OK, so where is Abu Zubatwaf?
Abu Zubatwaf.
Zubatwaf, where's he at right now?
So in 2006, after four years going from secret site
to secret site, we sent him to Guantanamo.
Six years, he was going from black site to black site.
Yeah, so we sent him to Guantanamo in 2006,
and he's been there ever since.
There was a very interesting article in The New York Times
two weeks ago, I guess it was.
Carol Rosenblum is the only reporter anywhere
that covers these issues.
Nobody cares anymore about Abu Zubatwaf.
I mean, this is ancient history.
It happened 20 years ago.
A little bit more than 20 years ago.
He doesn't have any actionable intelligence anymore.
The information's a generation old.
So nobody cares, except for her.
And she broke this story two weeks ago
that there are negotiations underway
by Abu Zubatwaf's attorneys, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's
attorneys.
Pull that thing a little bit closer under you.
This one?
Yeah, just pull it right under you.
It's a little bit.
Oh, sorry.
You scooted and that thing didn't.
Right.
Abu Zubatwaf's attorneys, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's attorneys,
Ramzi bin Asshib, Amar al-Balooch, and maybe one other
to negotiate a guilty plea.
You know, only Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's
ever been charged with a crime.
Abu Zubatwaf has never been charged with a crime, any crime.
There's a ton of guys there that
haven't been charged with crimes, right?
Almost none of them have.
Yeah, only Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
So the deal is they will agree to plead guilty to terrorism
and conspiracy to commit terrorism.
And in exchange, will give them life without parole,
but will allow them to remain at Guantanamo
for the rest of their lives.
What they're worried about, they now
realize after 20 plus years, they're not getting out.
So what they want is they don't want
to go to the Supermax in Florence, Colorado.
The weather's terrible.
It's cold.
They don't like the cold.
They want to stay in Cuba.
So that's what the deal is going to end up being.
Wow.
Wow, have you ever heard the story?
Have you ever been to Guantanamo?
Once.
What?
When was that?
Summer of 2002.
After we had caught Abu Zubatwaf,
before we had caught Khalid Sheikh Mohammed,
but before Abu Zubatwaf arrived there.
Yeah.
Wow.
It was packed.
Was it really?
Packed.
Yeah.
That's so wild.
And you know what's funny?
I have some regular contacts now who were prisoners there.
Like I'm friendly with Mohammed Udslahi from Mauritania,
that poor guy.
I mean, there were so many innocent people.
I heard a story about a guy named Latif Nasir.
There was another guy in Canada with the same exact name.
He did this long podcast story about the guy
and had contact with him or through his attorney.
Yes.
There are several stories like that.
Have you ever heard of Mahir Arar, also Canadian?
So Mahir Arar is a political science professor
at the University of Toronto.
And he's ethnically Tunisian.
He's a naturalized Canadian citizen.
He's been a political science professor for a long time.
So he went in 2001.
He went to Tunisia to visit some cousins of his.
And a woman that I was working for at the time said,
this guy is a bad guy, Mahir Arar.
We even had staff meetings about him.
And there were several of us.
There were three of us.
I was one of the three who said, uh-uh.
You guys don't speak Arabic.
That's what the problem is.
There's a bad guy who has a name that
sounds like Mahir Arar, but it's not Mahir Arar.
This guy is a friggin' political science professor.
She says, grab him.
So we asked the FBI to grab him at Kennedy Airport
when he flew back from Tunisia.
The FBI grabs him.
They turn him over to the CIA.
The CIA turns him over to Syrian intelligence, right?
Syrian intelligence.
They tortured this guy mercilessly for 10 months.
They gave him electroshock to his balls.
They pulled his fingernails out.
They raped him.
They did what do you call it, sleep deprivation.
They made him a whimpering mush of a man.
And then the Syrians came back to us and they said, listen,
we think this is the wrong guy.
This guy doesn't know anything.
We broke him.
And so we said, uh, let him go.
In the meantime, his wife is waiting for him
at the airport in Toronto.
He was supposed to get off the plane at Kennedy
and get a connection to Toronto.
He never gets off the plane.
So his wife asks, you know, what's up?
And the FAA said, oh, no, he never
got on the plane in Tunisia.
But then a month later, she gets a credit card bill.
And here, he had bought her a pair of sunglasses
on the duty-free on the plane.
And she said, look, I have proof he was on the plane.
He bought a pair of sunglasses from the duty-free.
And they were like, uh, yeah, we don't know what's going on.
Sorry.
So finally, he was released.
And he's like, they snatched me off the plane
with these FBI badges.
Then the CIA took me.
Then the Syrians tortured me for the last 10 months.
He filed a $20 million lawsuit against the US government.
Filed it in the Eastern District of Virginia in Alexandria.
And the CIA goes to the Eastern District Court.
And they said, uh, national security, your honor.
We can't talk about any of this.
Sources and methods.
And the judge is like, case dismissed.
Wow.
So nothing happened?
He sued the Canadian government because we informed
the Canadians, you have an al-Qaeda guy working
at the University of Toronto.
And he wasn't.
So the Canadians gave him $6 million.
But the last time I spoke to him,
he told me that he has not left his house in 14 years.
He has such terrible anxiety disorder now and agoraphobia
that he has not left the four walls of his house in 14 years.
Good fucking lord.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
If you don't mind, I'll tell you about another one.
There's a guy named Khaled Al-Masri.
The name Al-Masri means the Egyptian.
It's not even really a name.
It's just this guy goes by Khaled.
His name's Khaled Al-Masri.
He owned a little grocery store in Berlin.
And he got in a fight with his wife one night.
And their marriage was lousy.
And he just decided, I'm out of here.
And so he gets on a bus to go to Macedonia
to visit his brother.
He just needs to get away from his wife.
In the meantime, there's this guy named Khaled, who's Egyptian.
He would be Khaled Al-Masri.
And he's on the phone saying, hey,
I want to blow up the American Embassy in Albania.
So we get a tip that there's this guy, Khaled Al-Masri, who
wants to blow up the American Embassy.
And there's this guy, Khaled Al-Masri,
who's on a bus on the way to Macedonia.
We send in this team with a helicopter coming down.
And they stop the bus, and they snatch him off the bus.
And they send him to Egypt.
And we tell the Egyptians, soften him up a little bit.
Tell us what the plans are to blow up our embassy in Albania.
He didn't know what the fuck we were talking about.
So he's there for a year.
Same thing with him.
They electrocute him.
They beat him.
They rape him.
They pull his fingernails out.
And then they come back to us, and they're like,
you know, there are like 50 million people
named Khaled Al-Masri.
This is not the guy you're looking for.
