So, you worked for the FDA for how many years?
From 2011 to 2014.
And what was your role at the FDA?
I was the director of the dietary supplement programs there.
So there was a division then.
It's under...
I want that one.
Sorry.
It was a division.
Now it's an office about 26 people in charge of dietary supplement policy for the whole
country and getting involved in enforcement, directing inspections, you name it.
How did you get into this world of medicine and supplements and all this stuff?
You know, I guess it started was a college athlete, so it started there, went to grad
school in University of Illinois, trying to discover drugs from plants.
Most people don't realize the majority of our drugs, especially cancer drugs, actually
come from plants.
So, I studied in a guy named Norm Farnsworth there, who's the godfather of pharma-cognizia,
an interesting word.
Pharma-cognizia is one I've never heard of.
It's basically the study of medicines from plants, right?
That's kind of where we get everything from, Chinese medicine, et cetera, so forth.
But went there and instead of working on cancer drugs, there were grants at the time because
Dishay, which was the law which authorized dietary supplements, was new and NIH had botanical
centers of excellence.
And so, we got one of those grants and kind of just fell into it.
There was a lot of regulatory stuff at the time because we were doing clinical trials.
So, we had to get past INDs and things like that.
My advisor was up there in years and he's like, well, you go to D.C. and you learn how
to do that stuff because I've never been there too long.
And so, kind of got thrown to the wolves, at least to the FDA piece.
That wasn't really what my background was.
It was really as a chemist.
It was a pretty good chemist, but then kind of got switched into more of the regulatory
political space just by virtue of that's what was needed.
Right.
There's a couple of stats here that I'll read them off.
I don't know, correct me if I'm wrong on any of them, but in the United States, as far
as healthcare goes, we pay more for healthcare than anywhere else in the world.
We have the highest level of chronic disease in the world.
We consume more pharmaceutical products than any other country in the world.
And we're the number three cause of death in the US after heart disease and cancer is
pharmaceutical drugs.
Does that sound right?
Sounds about right.
Yeah.
We're also one of the things that ties into that and it'd be interesting.
We're one of two countries that allows for direct marketing, direct advertising pharmaceuticals
to people.
New Zealand, I think, is the other one, right?
Sweden.
Sweden.
Really?
Yeah.
They allow that.
They allow advertising and pharmaceuticals.
I believe so, yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
So why is it that we spend more money on healthcare than any other country in the world, yet we
have some of like, I think we're like in the 70 something, we're like number 70 something
in the world as far as like healthcare outcomes.
Why is that?
Good question.
Selfishly.
Kim and where I work from, a lot of it's how we eat, a lot of it's nutrition, a lot
of it's staying healthy, a lot of it is that.
I think you're seeing, it's interesting, I think you're seeing a move towards self-care.
One of the things we see with dietary supplement users, they actually have better health outcomes
long term.
So that's something we're very proud of, seem to be more informed on healthcare, more
willing to take matters into their own hands, which I think is better.
I think it's, a lot of it's systematic.
We can sit here and rail on the fact that people see their doctor on average for what's
it, 88 minutes is the visit, the average visit.
There's a lot of that that goes into it.
There's not a lot of, people don't care how much you know until they know how much you
care.
If you see someone for eight minutes a day, or when you go have an appointment, you're
not really.
Especially if those doctors are seeing like a hundred people a day.
Right.
They can tell you to eat better, quit smoking, quit drinking, whatever the issue is, and
you're going to go, I saw this guy for eight minutes, it has literally zero impact.
Yeah.
When I go to see my primary care doctor like once a year, he's always just like interested
to talk to me because he says he sees probably like 40 to 50 people a day and they're all
in there like 70, like from 70 years old to 90 years old.
And it's just like, it's a lot of work.
Well, I think there's that and there's also to that point, I think we spend more kind
of in the, there was a statistic, I don't know how valid it is post COVID, but that
we spent more than any country per capita in the last six months of life, right, healthcare.
We spend a lot at the end stage.
So that's important.
And then for us, I think what's really important is the average doctor gets only 16 hours of
nutrition, including dietary supplement education in their training, 16 hours.
Yeah.
So how, how is it the, where's that message going to come from to eat better, to do better?
And, and if you take, I used to teach pharmacology, it, when I was an university graduate school,
you know, they always had grad assistants help teach, you know, they take, I don't know,
probably 130, 140 hours of pharmacology versus 16 hours of nutrition.
So right within medical school.
So yeah, you think about it that way.
It's a big difference.
How much attention do you pay to what other countries do?
As far as like educating their doctors and students in colleges, what, you know, and like,
how much attention they pay to like food and diet versus supplementation versus pharmacology?
Not a ton, but enough to, enough to see that there are, enough to see that there's a, there's
a clear difference in terms of what's considered healthy and what's not, right?
Like I think, I think other cultures are much, like they have a better concept of what a healthy
diet is, right?
They, I think they have, it's kind of more cultural, it's more ingrained, if you will.
Whereas here, we're always looking to, well, what does a doctor say?
And now it's, well, what does Dr. Google say, right?
So versus looking kind of internally.
Yeah. Also recently, I don't know how, I don't know, like what the trend has been over the last
50 years in the U.S. as far as like where we, where we are on like the global spectrum of
healthcare versus other countries.
But it seems like now there's a lot more open information on the internet, like on YouTube
about, there's people like Huberman that talk about stuff and how people can basically like
take control of their own health.
Yeah. I mean, that's the one thing we do lead the way.
And it's, it's, it's kind of a, it's real disparate because we lead the way in self care.
Other countries want to follow what we do in terms of self care, in terms of access to,
you know, because we do, you know, it's interesting.
The irony is because we have access to pharmaceuticals in some ways that other
countries don't, we also have access to other things, right?
Huge, huge issue for our industry, for the dietary supplement industry is we kind of
have an FDA that always wants to pull access back.
Meanwhile, if you look, you look around, that's not what, that's not what people in this
country want.
That's not what people want globally, right?
They want access to multivitamins.
They want access to omega threes.
They want access to botanicals in a different way than maybe their traditional medical
cultures have around the world.
Like in China, you're seeing a huge growth of dietary supplement use.
Now they still have TCM.
Really?
Yeah. Oh yeah.
Yeah. It wasn't always available at retail and it's quite expensive at retail.
Most of the market in China has been traditionally multilevel marketing or direct sales.
Now you're seeing retail starting to open up and people really, there's a demand.
What, where, where does China land on like this, what is their healthcare system?
Like how good is the healthcare in China and how, what is their like, their life expectancy
or their overall, I know here there's like more obese people than anywhere in the world.
Yeah.
It's probably not like that in China.
I know they have a big problem with like people being malnourished, not being able to
have food, but.
It really depends on city versus rural.
Right, right.
It's, it's hugely dependent on economy too.
Yeah.
And they do, I mean, they do have some challenges with obesity.
I don't think that's, you know, but I think part of that too is they see, oh wait, you know what,
high fructose currency or people like that in the United States.
Let's start putting in some food here too.
So I think when you're seeing those changes, it makes a huge difference.
But, you know, if you look at the fortification programs in some of those countries where they
started adding vitamins and things like that, you've seen, it's interesting.
It's almost a rewinding the clock where, you know, you've seen an increase in life expectancy
and more rural folks, I think, because you have had some fortification of the diet and
things like that that prior they didn't have.
Right.
Okay.
So you, you worked at FDA for three years under Obama.
Yes.
How does, can you give me just like a broad 30,000 foot view of the basics?
Like explain to me like I'm a 10-year-old, how does the pharmaceutical and supplement world work?
Oh well, okay.
So the supplement world works different from the pharmaceutical.
It's regulated.
You'll always hear dietary supplements aren't regulated.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
We put people, there are laws, there are good laws.
We put people in jail when I was there.
FDA still has the ability to do that.
So you don't sell, everything an FDA works on isn't misbranded.
So is it truthful and not misleading?
If it's not, if you're trying to mislead people or you're telling things that are false,
that's a, that's a, that's what the one crime.
And the other crime is, is the ingredient adulterated, right?
Have you debased the material in a way?
Whether by economic fraud, you hear all the time about olive oil, not being olive oil,
that's adulteration.
Also adulteration can be, do you know if this is safe or not?
And yet you introduced it to the market.
So those are kind of the principles that at least the dietary supplement areas around.
Similar pharmaceutical, pharmaceuticals have to be proven safe and effective though,
before going to market with some exceptions.
So adulteration is saying it's something that it isn't?
That's misbranding.
Adulteration would be debasing the material in some way, devaluing the material in some way,
whether for economic gain or that could potentially harm somebody.
If you introduce something loaded with E. coli, that's adulterated, right?
Okay.
You don't, while you may eat some E. coli, it's not a food.
So you generally can't put that in the diet.
Okay.
What about the pharmaceutical world?
Like I said, it has to be, those generally have to be proven safe and effective.
It's about anywhere, and the fast track can move it up to about two years,
but it's a 15 year runway.
You start with preclinical studies for pharmaceutical in phase one, phase two,
then a dose ranging or phase three, and then if you get approval,
there's usually some sort of post market surveillance study too.
Is it true that 50% of FDA's budget is funded by pharmaceutical companies?
I think it's more than that.
More than that.
I think it's closer to 72, 73 now, all in.
What does that mean?
Well, they have a different, so it's a user fee basically, right?
And that's, so it's a user fee.
So that's where they can hire staff to pay attention to those files.
They work closely with the pharmaceutical companies to review their documents,
to review their studies, to get approvals, and it's a pay for.
So now there's still part of FDA, a big part of FDA is appropriated
through Congress through our tax dollars.
It's a public trust, right?
FDA was started by a guy named Harvey Wiley, kind of poison squad,
after the jungle and the poisonings in the stockyards in Chicago.
And so, but it's changed quite a bit since then.
It was the Pure Food and Drug Act.
Now it's, a lot of people say that food shouldn't even be at FDA anymore, which is interesting.
Yeah, how much attention do they put into food?
Based on what we've seen over the past 24 months with things like what happened
with infant formula, I think that kind of question.
Yeah.
Can you explain what happened with infant formula?
Yeah, there was a bacteria that was found with some manufacturers that shouldn't be there,
and the agency knew about it and did nothing, effectively, is what the story is.
And just kind of said, oh, okay, it'll be fine.
It'll work its way through the system.
And it didn't.
And some kids got really sick and it led to a huge shortage of entered formula because
basically everything that was on the shelves had to be brought back, recalled,
you know, whether for retesting or for destruction.
And that certainly created a number of problems for people.
Was that Johnson and Johnson who made that?
Or was that, I think, another different product?
It was a division of Abbott.
Abbott, that's what it was.
Yeah.
That's what it was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And there are some versions of the story where there might not even been the contamination.
It might have just been more of FDA's errors.
And I think that's really the challenge is, you know, what's the best thing the agency does,
the agency was started, you know, kind of back to that poison squad to inspect and test,
right, to go into facilities, make sure that facilities are sanitary.
There aren't processes that could damage the products and randomly test.
And when they don't do that, like FDA didn't visit that facility for a long,
long time, you kind of go, what is it they're doing then?
Yeah, they're supposed to be, they're supposed to be like
the arbiter of safety when it comes to all this stuff.
And it seems like they've just become like the worst part of human nature has infected
the FDA similar to the way it affects the other industries like defense and everything else.
It's become politicized for your food and your drugs are incredibly politicized now,
which that was really, you know, it's part of the reason FDA actually is a third tier agency
in the cabinet, president's cabinet.
They're not, they don't report, no one at FDA reports directly to the president.
They report to the secretary of HHS.
And that was by design to keep them apolitical.
The opposite has happened effectively in the past 20 years.
Can you explain, can you explain how that's changed over the last 20 years?
Well, I think what's happened is people have pushed down the people they want politically
into the under organizations, right?
So it was never a, you have folks that are at FDA for life.
I don't want to get into the deep state stuff or any of that stuff,
but you have folks that are there for life.
And it's like there's really not a lot of checks and balances on that because
one, the more political, the more, the higher political levels are in and out pretty fast,
right?
And they'll set an edict forward and then they'll be gone two years later.
Whereas the folks at kind of the base level, they, they operate somewhat freely to do what
they want.
And I think a lot of times their personal politics comes into play and you don't,
you're not, they're not accountable to those because the people at the levels above just
go in and out pretty quick.
And so in some ways they, they're, they become independent from some, some of it having to
answer politically, but they're, they're making it up as they go along.
I mean, they've been defined, especially on the food side.
They was a Reagan Udall review, which actually is a third party kind of a foundation that
looks at FDA consistently.
They looked at the foods program and tobacco program and they found that the food program
at some point just stops answering Congress.
And it's like, well, wait a second.
Congress has oversight over FDA, Congress funds FDA.
That's who they have to answer to.
And FDA just wouldn't answer on some of the food stuff.
So.
Really?
Yeah.
So that's a challenge, right?
It's like, how do you, how do you bring them into a place where they go, wait, I swore
an oath to protect American life, to help, you know, to protect babies in the case of infant
food, to make sure things are going right.
That's, that's concerning, to say the least.
How do patents affect certain things like pharmaceutical drugs and other things like
that?
And how is FDA involved in that?
Yeah, that's a great question.
Patents are pharmaceutical IP, I would say, to the agency is those are crown jewels, right?
They think pharmaceutical IP is, in a lot of ways, their reason for existing, right?
FDA works hand in hand with somebody who did a lot of research to get a blockbuster drug
to market and they get user fees for it.
Like we said, 70% of the user fees, so they're protecting their investment, right?
That's.
Who gets the user fees?
The FDA does.
Okay.
So, like I said, so that IP drives those user fees, right?
That IP around, hey, I have a potential blockbuster drug and I'm going to bring it to market.
I need to have, I'm paying you to make sure you review things in a timely manner because
the quicker I get to market, the longer my patent life, the better off I am.
But the patents, don't the patents drive up prices like astronomically?
They certainly can.
You know, and usually that's what happens.
Branded drugs are obviously cost a lot more than generics.
And, you know, you have a runway on your branded before it even can become a generic,
right?
You get 17 years, effectively, plus or minus, you know, however long the approval process took.
So, in that 17-year window, you know, would you rather get to marketing year two or year 13?
Right.
So.
Do other countries have these patents with drugs like this and with?
There's definitely material protection.
I mean, there is in other countries.
I think the challenge here is, is you really do have that direct correlation.
You know, and I'm not saying that user fees are always a bad thing.
It makes people accountable.
We need blockbuster drugs in some ways.
We need new developments.
We need innovation.
Right.
At the same time, when you see an article like there was in Bloomberg on Monday that said,
hey, there are drugs that were fast-tracked that are still making claims that were never
authorized, that's when you go, wait a second, where's the check and balance there?
And that seems to be done just to kind of like, oh, hey, you know what, you paid us a user fee,
we fast-tracked it and, hey, do what you want to do, which is people should kind of scratch
their heads and go, well, wait a second.
Right.
But the patents themselves, these people are able to get 20-year monopolies on certain drugs.
Doesn't that completely stifle innovation?
It can.
It can.
What happens, interestingly, what happens now more and more is somebody looks to extend the patent
life by way of adding it with another drug or making another claim for it.
So if you have a patented drug and it's about to come off patent and you combine it with
another therapy, you see this a lot of times in cholesterol reduction, things like that,
then you get even more patent life and more exclusivity.
So you're seeing that a lot.
You know, I think that's one of the challenges that's out there right now is where are we,
and it's part of the reason there's all this battle about, and it sounds like insulin prices
are going to come down, but it seems like there's all these battles about pricing,
about open market, about the marketplace, and I think those are good discussions.
It's definitely more front-facing than it was before.
I think in some ways, though, and especially for our industry, I think what we're seeing for the
dietary supplement industry is you're seeing that process, that patent process or the IND process,
being used to keep others out of the market, which wasn't the intent.
The intent was you're going to file an IND, you're going to have the IP,
are you going to develop it?
If you're not going to develop it, okay, how are you still able to block someone out from the
market indefinitely?
That's a problem.
Do you see any sort of hope, or do you see how you optimistic at all of this changing or being
fixed some way? Because there's obviously glaring problems in this thing, and you say
it wasn't their intent for this to happen, but do you see any way, is there anyone pushing for
this to be changed?
I mean, I think patent reform generally is tough, because it always gets into tort reform,
which no one ever wants to touch.
What's tort reform?
Tort reform basically torts of when you can sue somebody and when you can't. What's its basis?
I think when it comes to IP right now in the country, we have a big divide between tech,
cell phones, if you will, and biosciences. Biosciences need more protection. They'd rather
have an environment where you can effectively steal from one another, because the technology
is different every six months, too. I think it's important that people have time to develop
life-saving therapies, et cetera, don't get me wrong. But I think there's got to be a little
more specificity on it. It can't be this zero-sum game, and that's, I think, contributed to the
bit of the challenge. For our industry, I am hopeful, because I think you're seeing more and more
products that walk into worlds, products that are both drugs, and at lower levels,
may have a physiological effect, not a pharmacological effect, but a physiological effect.
What is the difference there?
Pharmacological usually is drug receptor response. You may have something like niacin. You take a
lot of niacin. It helps to smooth the vasculature in a way that it prevents coronary vascular disease,
heart attacks, et cetera. Niacin at a lower level, you need for cellular functioning.
These are the sort of cellular metabolism. Different levels, very different levels.
Different amounts. Different amounts, different outcomes, different use. I think more and more
you're seeing that, you're going to see more of that with peptides, with live microbials,
with, you name it, certainly cannabinoids touch into that too, because you've got
drug approvals and CBD. But that dosage is about anywhere from a gram to two grams a day. And
it's important because it works on kids who have seizure disorder, right? Which is, they used to
have to take very- CBD does. CBD does. Yeah, the drug, the drug. And they used to have to take
really hard drugs to deal with that seizure disorder. But that's not why folks in the supplement
space or the food space want to use it. They want to use it because people maybe occasionally
have trouble falling asleep or they may, maybe after a hard workout, it really works well for
them for recovery. Those are total different end points. They make energy drinks or they
make drinks with CBD in them too. Yeah, they've got those to help you, I guess, kind of.
I always wonder too, because there's so many products out there and they like slap these
little labels at the bottom of their can that'll say like, you know, this much CBD. I always wonder,
like, is that bullshit? Like, is that really in there? Well, this is the whole point of FDA,
right? It's like we've come full circle in a short time. FDA should be out there inspecting
and testing. Instead, they throw up their hands and they go, we don't know what to do because
there's this drug, even though there's a part of law where FDA can say, hey, just because it was a
drug first, we can still allow it as a food or supplement. And like you said, the product's
already out there. Like the horses left the barn. So they might as well get in front of it and say,
look, we've evaluated this scientifically. If you're going to use it as food or a supplement,
like one of those beverages, you don't exceed this much a day. Like we tell people, hey,
you know, you'll see on caffeinated products, like you may want to keep it below like 400
milligrams a day. You've seen some of those things, you know, not to be used under 18,
those sorts of things. You haven't seen any of that from FDA. They just keep going,
oh, we don't know what to do. And meanwhile, like you said, there's a proliferation of products in
the market and a proliferation of misinformation, if you will, because they're not being inspected.
They're not being tested. And that's really what needs to happen more than anything.
Because there's really no, there's no big incentive for them to do that. Is that right?
For FDA? Yeah. I mean, I think that there is, but again, they feel like there's no
repercussion. Well, they feel like, well, there isn't any repercussion. You're right,
that nobody has taken them on. It's interesting. You have so many states and so many members of
Congress who have programs where they're like, hey, farmers, rip up your tobacco fields,
plant hemp, and there's going to be marketplace for you. That was about 10 years ago. That marketplace
still isn't, if you will, in FDA's law, in FDA's line of thinking, regulated. And so that's hurt,
right? Like I think about five years ago, CBD was about $4,000 a kilo. Now I've
hear stories that it's down to about $100 a kilo. So that's crushed those farmers,
absolutely crushed them, just economically in terms of the value of their crops.
Because they were, they had tobacco crops and they changed them to hemp?
Yeah, there's a lot of states that funded those programs. And so they grew hemp and there was
kind of this gold rush. Like I said, it got up, the price of CBD got up to about $4,000 a kilo.
And then without a government framework to regulate it as a food or supplement,
it crashed quickly and now it's down to about $100 a kilo.
Interesting.
And the whole Delta 8 market came to be by FDA in action, realistically, because I mean,
you've heard the stories about Delta 8 and proliferating everywhere. Delta 8 is effectively
the CBD biomass that somebody smart somewhere figured out, wait, if I cook this, it's not as
good as Delta 9 THC, but it's not bad and I can sell it for more than $100 a kilo.
So it's a very interesting kind of model that's sprung out from FDA's in action.
Because you didn't have Delta 8. Some people say it exists in a plant, but it's in such
minute quantities. It's a very small plant metabolite that I don't know that anyone felt
a sizable effect of it biologically before. Delta 8 is a type of THC, right?
Yeah, that's right.
And is there any of that in CBD?
Well, a very, very, very minor, minor like minor amounts, but if you apparently,
I think if you heat it, use some sort of soft acid and then you create, you convert CBD to Delta 8.
And now you're seeing that sold alongside, you know,
basically in dispensaries and things like that as a get high product, which is not
the industry I represent.
Right, right, right.
So okay, let's go back to your role at the FDA when you were at the FDA. Can you share like
some of your experiences as the director of the Division of Dietary Supplementation
and the different programs you worked on and like what specifically you had to deal with?
We had the first injunction for GMP violations, which was big. So GMP is Good Manufacturing
Practices. Good Manufacturing Practices ensure a baseline of quality of how a product is made.
And there was a firm that really wasn't, it had no quality parameters in their facility at all.
They just make something, they didn't know what was in it. They didn't know if it was
contaminated. They didn't know anything. And so we were able to use the law to shut them down,
which was a big thing at the time. It's the first time it's been used. And the GMP laws are,
you have GMPs in pharmaceuticals, medical devices, foods, it's a standard,
you know, GMPs are standard in U.S., but you know, this kind of quality standard,
quality by design standard is fairly uniform throughout the world in terms of making,
you know, health products for people that you have to have a minimal quality standard.
And this was something that came about only when you first started working for the FDA?
It was in, there were some pieces in motion. So the GMPs were, it took the FDA, so the GMPs
were authorized in 1994. It took the FDA until 2008 to get them out. So yeah, the first and
enforcement didn't happen until my watch. The inspections were ongoing, but the first time
a firm got shut down for it was under my watch. We pushed on that hard and made sure that that
happened because it was a firm that wasn't, at least at the time, wasn't interested in complying
with the law and having some assurances to consumers that things were made in a quality manner.
Okay. What about like dietary supplementation or anything or any other, any other programs?
Well, some of the big ones we worked on was, I don't know if you remember DMAA?
DMAA was a pre-workout ingredient at the time, which was very popular, but it was questionable.
It actually used to be a drug, and it was questionable whether or not it was found in
nature. And so that was one of those where we had to demonstrate it wasn't found in nature and it
could potentially leave to health issues. And so that was a big one that was on the market.
Who was claiming it was found in nature?
A few different people. The company at the time was called, the big seller company at
the time was called USP Labs. And they had a recently, I think 2020, the case against them
finally closed the government. I mean, obviously when I left the government, the case kept going,
but I think the government finally closed the case against them. I think some of their executives
served time and had to pay a fine. So that was a big one just because it was this whole construct
of, hey, this is found in nature, not really. It was kind of a, the molecule itself, a lot of
people think, and again, there are studies on both sides of the fence, think it has amphetamine-like
behavior, which shouldn't be in your foods, right? So that was kind of the particular
challenge with that particular issue. Then the company had another issue. The government
shut down in 2013. I had a daughter, my daughter was young at the time, she was about a year and a
half, and they shut the government down. So we all go home on October 1st, right? And the fiscal
year, September 30th, they tell me that the head of the Center for Food says, you're not essential.
I was like, great, I don't want to be essential. I get a call the next day. There was an outbreak in
Hawaii of non-hepatic liver injury from another one of this same company's products. And so I had
to go in. We had to work the case. And by the end of the month, we were able to get that product
off the shelves through. We started to work on mandatory recalls. Actually, the first time FDA
was going to use mandatory recall, and then we pulled it back. Because the company got rid of
all of it. So it was an interesting issue. Yeah. It seems like there's probably a lot of issues
with some of the stuff that's supposed to fire you up or zip you up, like energy drinks and
stimulants. Well, there can be. There are also a lot of really good manufacturers. The big thing,
this is the key thing, is FDA should know first. They should be the ones, right? Like, that's why
we're paying the tax dollars is they should know first. They should be out there going, okay,
we've seen these facilities. We understand. They can go into your facility. They have pretty
broad authority. They can go into your facility at any quote, unquote, reasonable time. Now,
they're not going to be coming by at midnight. But if they want to go to your facility and they
want to have access to your records, they have it by the letter of the law, which if you want to
watch somebody make their product, what's better than that? And kind of FDA's reticence to do that
in some areas, I think, is concerning. That's really where they add the most value. And instead,
they've kind of gotten off on this specific to our commodity, specific to dietary supplements.
They're more interesting in kind of paper arguments than actually boots on the ground.
Like lawsuits? Well, yeah, like what we've seen with, we had to sue them on NAC. They told us
NAC, which was in the market in for 30 plus years. What is NAC? It's an acetylcystine. It's an
amino acid found in broccoli found all over the place. It was approved as a drug in the 60s for
inhalational. It opens up the bronchi. Now, that's a different administration than swallowing it and
having it dissolve in your stomach and work its way through your system. And because of that,
FDA then says in 2020, now, the drug was approved in the 60s, I think 1963.
There are records we gave to FDA that it was sold as a supplement or a form in the 90s before
Deshaix came in. So before there was even a definition of dietary supplement, NAC was sold
in a capsule. People took it, use it. So you 30 some odd years of safety. In 2020, they told us,
no, not not allowed anymore. And you go, wait a second, what's the issue? Is there safety?
Yeah, FDA said this. And they go, we're like, well, what's the issue? Is there a safety issue?
Because if there is, then we need to work with you guys to address it. No, not a safety issue.
Okay, so what's the issue? Well, we don't think it fits the category. It's like, well, it's an
amino acid, you know, and so you spend a lot of time doing this kind of, like I said, this paper
dance of here are arguments, they come up with counter arguments, which, you know, from our
side, it's like little thin. But then, you know, it progresses and it progresses to them
denying people to export it because they're saying, well, you're exporting an illegal drug
and so forth. And so it's like, okay, so now you're interfering with the business. Then Amazon
delists it, right, which really hurt part of the business. Because unfortunately, I think our space,
the dietary supplement space has given away a lot of land to Amazon, whether intentional or not,
you know, everyone's got to use it to sell. But I think there's so many.
I use Amazon to buy all my supplements. Say there you go. You're a problem though.
Yeah, right. No, but you know, and look, a big part of our membership, our mom and pop retail,
right? We've heard from so many mom and pop retailers, because someone goes in there and they
go, hey, what does this do? And the mom and pop retailers are knowledgeable. They've been doing
this for 20 years, 30 years. And they tell people and then they never see that person again, because
just like you said, then they go, wait, I can just buy it on Amazon. And now I know which brand I
like, I know which brand to take, I know what ingredients I like, and they just go to Amazon.
That's fine. It's a choice in the marketplace. But it gave Amazon the ability to basically,
in this instance, and with NMN, which we'll touch on too, it gives them the ability to
effectively FDA never has to really render a scientific or legal opinion. They can just go,
we don't like this and Amazon will stop selling it. And that is like that's Amazon is like the
waterfall for everything. It's a category killer. It's an ingredient killer. It's an industry killer.
So that and FDA knows that, you know, and that's where that's where the game is right now versus
like, okay, if there's not a safety concern, if it occurs in nature, we're not making disease
claims. We're not saying this is used to treat asthma. People are using NAC for healthy metabolism,
for, you know, a number of, there's a number of studies and probably, probably over 200 clinical
trials, good clinical trials on NAC as a supplement. So it's not like there hasn't been research done
to show the effects. So the fact the agency just wants to go, nope, lying in the sand,
can't be both a drug and a supplement, you go, wait a second, how does it work?
Right, you know, it's, it's this whole concept of if something occurs in nature,
I get that if somebody finds something in nature, nobody found before and develops it
for IP as a blockbuster drug, they should have first right to the marketplace. I think that
makes sense. But the notion that that should forever be locked out of other uses, especially
as a food or supplement, people clearly ate it before, that doesn't make any sense. If you find
a minor component of broccoli, right, that no one found before and let's say someone develops it and
it works against prostate cancer and it works well, great. But let's say lower levels of that
ingredient have a function that, you know, helps you with urinary tract infections, right, which you
can have a food do. We have that cranberry juice, right? So it should never be allowed to use,
be used for those purposes as well, right? It's, it's, it's kind of backwards. And that's why,
like when you brought up the pharma IP thing, it really, that's what drives the agency is a pharma
IP and they don't want to address the issues that would effectively have a diminishing return on
pharma IP, I think they think, I think they think if it has another path to market, that's going to
reduce the value of the pharma IP, which I think it's pretty flawed thinking, but that's clearly
they're thinking. Yeah, it's money thinking. Yeah. So what was the reason they drew that
line in the sand with NAC? Still don't know to this day. Still don't know to this day. You know,
we can speculate there were some studies, interestingly, early on. Shouldn't we be able
to get this information? Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk
about our sponsor, Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know
how obsessed I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on this
show is nutritional scientist and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me
to this stuff. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold a potential to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate
these zombie cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie
cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss,
wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging. What scientists
have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup process of the old
zombie cells and replacing them with new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night,
is a powerful blend of synelitic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes
like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation
and natural cardioprotective functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermidine, lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth
and proliferation, specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order. I linked it all below. Now back to the show.
Good question. We'll go deep on that. There were some thoughts because there were trials looking
at NAC for COVID because it opened the bronchi. So there were some folks that thought there was
someone at work trying to brand a drug with NAC for COVID applications. So that was one theory.
Again, that's completely, we're going to go completely tin foil hat or whatever.
But that was one theory. Again, we don't know to this day. So we sued them to hopefully find out
and they ended up selling us out of court because they didn't want us to get discovery and everything
else. So they gave us what we want. They brought it back to market with enforcement discretion,
which they'd never done before. They'd never said, okay, fine, you can sell it as a supplement too,
which they did effectively. Now we want them to write a regulation. There's a regulation in
the law that allows for FDA to take something that's pharmaceutical and allow it's sale as a
supplement or food. Okay. They've never used that in 29 years of this law being in place.
What's the law says? Dishay. Dishay. Okay. So amendment to the food drug cosmetic.
Right. So by the end of this, you're going to be a food drug cosmetic expert.
But so they gave us what we want and Amazon put it back on and all is right with the world.
Except then we drop our lawsuit and about two weeks later, they do the same thing with NMN.
NMN is a, some people think an equivalent of niacin. So nicotinamide monocleotide.
Right. And say that 10 times fast, right? Right, right, right. So I'm very familiar with NMN.
I verse so with the company that Daniel Meyer has. I love, I take it every day. I took it before
the podcast. It's great. It's a precursor to NAD, which is like cellular energy and anti-aging and
supposed to like keep you young and keep yourself healthy, like regenerate yourselves, right?
I mean, look, and it became popular from, we should go deep on the NMN stuff. So it became
popular originally when it was already obviously discovered. I think somebody won a Nobel Prize
over discovering it. And then this is the article. David Sinclair, if you scroll down about half of
the article, it talks about like David Sinclair, he first went on Joe Rogan's podcast, started
talking about all these anti-aging compounds. NMN was one of them and he specifically called it
a supplement. Yes, number of times. And it's great right up by the way, if I can give a quick
shout out to Mike Roberta and the guys at Price Plug. Great right up by them. They covered,
they went deep on it. Keep going down. You'll see the photo or you'll see like a video clip
of David Sinclair. Keep firing through that, man. You're going to have to hit that wheel hard.
Yeah, there we go. No, it's faster. You're going to see his face. You'll see Sinclair's face. Yeah.
Yeah. And it's, and now he wants to keep it out as a supplement. Nope. That's Jeff Duncan.
That's our buddy from South Carolina who wrote FDA a letter. There's Warren Hatch.
It's about halfway through, Michael.
Yeah, it's interesting in that they, you know, the most interesting piece.
Right there. Yeah, there it is. You don't have to play it right now, but.
The most interesting piece in all of that is FDA after the fact on NMN. They did, so we have what's
called a new dietary ingredient notification provision. It's not pre-market approval, but
it's pre-market notification. We have to give the agency safety data before going to market. 75 days
and they look at it and they go thumbs up or thumbs down, or they can say,
nope, this isn't a dietary ingredient, which, you know, people have submitted things like steroids
over the years to try to sell them in a dietary supplement and FDA is like, no thanks. Easy there,
killer. Yeah, right. Exactly. Those are like, you know, kick those out, right? And they should be
kicked out. They don't fit into the construct, right? I mean, you're really talking about
things in the diet, things in nature, you know, people want to use as foods as to supplement
their diet. So, anabolic steroids that aren't found in nature?
I mean, they are, but you don't get them. They make them from yams, don't they?
They used to make them from horse urine. Right, so. Pregnant horses. Yeah,
primarin is pregnant Mary urine. So, so there's a. That's nature. Right, not quite food though,
you know. Right, right, right. But long story short, they don't fit in that the definition is
smart because it definitely is really vitamins, minerals, amino acids, you know, botanicals.
It's not like, hey, something to completely, it, it, it actually draws the cut of, are you trying to
basically sell a pharmaceutical in the diet, right? Like, that's kind of the cut. It's, it's a bit
of a. It's a very, it's a very blurry line. It can be, but in some ways, yes and no. I guess I'm,
I'm biased because I've administered a lot to me. It's like, I think it's pretty clear, but I
understand for, I understand for a lot of folks, they look and they go, well, wait a second, why
can I say like supports, like there are drugs that support strong bones. So, but I can say for
calcium and vitamin D, right? You know, so I get that there's some confusion there at the same time.
Something like a steroid really works on the only time medically you take a steroid is when
you're having an injury, right? There's a lot of other reasons though, aren't there? Like,
isn't, aren't, in other countries, don't they, I think specifically in Europe, I could be wrong
on this, but I heard that testosterone is prescribed for like ADHD or ADD. It might be. It very well
might be. I don't know of that use being approved of here, I guess is, is my, but. Here we just hop
them up on infetamines. There's that too, right? Yeah, you've raised a good point.
Yeah, but I think that the common sense way the laws apply is, hey, these are things we find in
the diet or find in a plant and aren't at a level where we're trying to, we can change the structure
function of the body, right? Calcium builds strong bones back to that again. Right. But we can't say,
hey, this hits, you know, this will reduce A1C and you'll, you know, you won't have a cardiovascular
incident, right? We generally don't say it, but though we do say, hey, fish, fish oil promotes
healthy cardiovascular function. Okay. I do get that. Some people say it's a distinction without
a difference, but I think there is a difference. I think the difference is, look, we're not trying to
replace a medicine. We're really trying to go, look, this is, this is really more a lifestyle
change, you know, you want to take the prescription fish oil. Usually those are taken by people who've
already had a stroke or heart attack versus you want to cut that off at the pass. You want to
be more preventative. Here you go. And the main difference is just the amount of it you get with
the prescription. That's the amount. The pharmaceutical company, I think, will say that the purity is
different. They may be right on some aspects of that. I think they're, I don't think there's
that significant a difference, but I think Daniel was telling me that they FDF actually wants to
like completely take fish oil off the supplement market. They tried. They tried. So they tried,
they used the, it's interesting, they used the International Trade Commission to try that. They
tried to complain and they tried to, it was an interesting argument because they tried to usurp
FDA's jurisdiction on this. It was Amarin, the product of the SEPA. So they tried to say, look,
this is, you know, this is clearly being used to basically as a substandard drug and FDA doesn't
know what they're doing. It was kind of an interesting argument. It failed. People have been
eating fish and people have been eating fish for fish oil for longer than the drug's been approved.
So that kind of came to play. That actually IP part came to play somewhat in the dietary
industry's favor. In that look, there was no way on God's green earth people,
you know, people were talking about eating fatty fish for the fats for the omega threes for
60 years now. Right. You know, so that was one of those where it was tougher for them to kind of
go, no, it was a drug first. It should be a drug only. But, but I think it gets back.
And how much harder would it be for people to get their hands on it that way? Like,
it would be so much more difficult. It would make, it would make the general population,
people like possibly can't afford to go to a doctor every year. They would not be able to get
their hands on it. But the medical establishment go, what do you mean? You're not going to go
to the doctor. What's your problem? You're not going to go to the doctor. Right. I mean, so that's,
that's the challenge you're running into, especially with self care movement, right?
As you're running into someone's got, there's a winner and there's a loser, right? And it seems
more and more on the medical side, they're at least losing some control in that regard. And
they don't like it. And I think that that's where a lot of the, I don't know if controversy is a
right word, but there's a lot, definitely a lot of friction there. So, but back to our good friend
David Sinclair. Yes, David Sinclair. So, goes everywhere. He wrote a book too, right? Yeah,
he wrote a book and says, take NMN supplementation. Also, so here's where it got interesting. So,
a company submits an AKL, or submits the NDI, the new dietary ingredient notification. Okay.
They get an AKL, which is a good day letter. They say, go to market. We like your safety data.
Go nuts. Great. They tell everyone we got the AKL. They were the first ones. And to this day,
they're the only ones. Six months later, FDA, and this is, goes back to the question of what
happened. Six months later, after he goes, oh, we changed our mind. You can't be a dietary ingredient.
Whoa, wait, where did this come from? Well, we came up, we discovered new information. What do
you mean you discovered new information? You're supposed to do, when that ingredient comes in,
you're supposed to do those checks. Is it being trialed as a pharmaceutical? Is it, you know,
what, what? Has they ever done that before? Never. Never. Where they came back and said no?
Never. Never. And also, they don't technically have the statutory authority. The statutory
authority, like we talked about derives from, is it adulterated or isn't misbranded? They haven't
said the product is adulterated. They haven't said that, hey, this, this product is unsafe,
it's made unsafe. They actually said they like their safety data, right? So you have to have
a reasonable expectation of safety for a new dietary ingredient. The firm already met that.
FDA said, you meet that, go to market. Now they're going to come back and go, well,
we didn't know it, but there was previously an IND. So the IND, once again, for the drug,
to, to move it, it has the drug kicked it out. What's interesting in that is
you can't search when that IND went in anywhere. And FDA won't tell you when that IND was effective.
So you go and you start looking at pieces. And one of the things in this story is,
if you go to clinicaltrials.gov, there was a study on a supplement
that, on an NMN supplement that had, that was submitted prior to the NDI. But it was on a
supplement. Then after the fact, they changed it to say, was it MIB 626 versus NMN? So they changed
it to look like it was- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Scroll down a little bit. There's actually,
I think there's screenshots of that on here where they actually show, they pull up their reports,
keep going, you'll see like it's a, is this it right here? Where all these redactions are?
Yeah, yeah, all the redactions. So basically, they zoom in on that. Yeah. So they go from,
A, it's a supplement, we're doing a supplement trial, and some universities require supplement,
require an IND to do a supplement trial. That doesn't make it a drug, but you submitted the IND.
So they went into this initial report and they literally changed every, every single place that
NMN or NMN was mentioned and they changed it to, what'd you say? MIB 626, I think.
And why did they do that? Because that's their drug, that's the name of their drug,
they filed the IND under. Okay. So that way they can keep it out of the market. They also removed
any mention of the term dietary supplement, right? Which was everywhere. Yeah. Initially.
Right, right. So this is where you scratch your head and you go, okay, come on. And also,
here's the bigger problem. Do we think? And, you know, David Sinclair is a very wise researcher,
very well respected. I'm not going to talk about that, but these guys are not necessarily,
I mean, I have a hard time seeing where they're going to develop a blockbuster drug with NMN,
right? So what's the point other than to block people from the market as a supplement or as a
food? Which is a bit problematic. And we know NMN is in the food supply, right? Now, once again,
to our earlier, okay, maybe people didn't discover it and say, hey, eat your frosted flakes for NMN
content, right? Like you say, eat it for, you know, carbohydrates or vitamin D or vitamin A.
But at the same time, it was there. And so they're effectively trying to use this part of the law to
keep it out of the supplement food supply indefinitely, which doesn't really make a lot of
sense. So we're in the same place we were on NEC, effectively. So NMN is essentially like,
if you take it in a concentrated dose, I guess from my grasp of understanding of what it does,
is it essentially is kind of like an anti-aging drug on the cellular level, right?
So David Sinclair has built up a huge following when it comes to anti-aging and sleep and all
that kind of stuff, like he's like discovered the fountain of youth. And couldn't he essentially
sort of like market some sort of anti-aging drug and make a ton of money doing that?
I think that's the goal. But I think that you haven't seen the sort of movement you usually
see for blockbuster drugs being developed by that company, right? Like by now you would think
they'd be in the next stage of phase, you know, the next phase of clinical trials and so on and so
forth. That doesn't seem to be what's going on here. Don't they have some clinical trials going?
They do, but I don't, I'm not aware of them answering those particular issues with dose
ranging and those sorts of things. And also what that indication would be FDA has never approved
a drug for. There's no anti-aging drugs on the market. So that would be a pretty,
to break through that, like to get that claim for a drug, that's going to be a pretty high bar.
Like what are those end points for anti-aging? Are people living longer? Are they telling
you're sure? How do you test it? Right. What's the actual, what gives you that claim, right?
So that's the challenge versus what we do know about NMN is it's in the diet, it promotes cellular
metabolism. It reduces, if you will, some cellular metabolic injury, which I think is, you know,
we can equate that if you will with anti-aging or something along those lines, right? That's kind,
but I think that this whole construct of it can't be a supplement and we can't know when it was
excluded from the market is even more ridiculous. Adding fuel to the fire, there's actually a
self-grass, which is another way of going to the market, generally recognized as safe till you see
that on food ingredients all the time, like caffeine, self-grass. Yeah, grass. So generally
recognized as safe. A company can do a, and actually FDA sued for the rights for a company to do this,
a company can get a panel together and under scientific procedure, have toxicologists review
the ingredient and determine that it's safe for use in human food. That's my, that's my,
they can determine it's safe for use in human food. That was done at least for our understanding
before that IND. So in some ways, the race to market was won by the food side versus the drug
side. So, you know, this is, this is one of those challenges we'll see as this plays out.
You know, there's the intent by FDA to tell people they can only sell it as a food
and then not sell it as a supplement. I mean, it's just really bizarre. It's just a very,
it's an odd duck and it goes back to that kind of construct of FDA is you can't have something
that walks in both worlds. You know, there's not a safety problem. They've said that with NMN.
There's no safety issue there. They're not seeing like people aren't having liver injury or any sort
of problems. So what's the actual, other than protecting the IP, what's the goal of FDA here?
And that's the part that nobody wants to talk about.
Didn't, isn't NMN just basically another form of vitamin B?
A lot of people think that. A lot of people think it's an equivalent to niacin. It's a better form
of niacin. There's also talk about nicotinamide riboside, which is on that pathway too, similarly.
And nicotinamide riboside is actually has an NDI, got a good day letter and is on the market.
So yeah, what is that used for? Same, same. It's on, it's, it's, they interconvert.
What is like the lowest hanging fruit people use that for health wise?
Same as NMN. Nicotinamide riboside, same as NMN.
Okay. So it's kind of, it fits in that kind of anti-aging space, if you will.
I think the bigger challenge though is this is the tip of the spear, is there are going to be
more ingredients that are going to come to market. Peptides. Peptides are being studied for both
day-in, day-out use as, you know, nutritional products, but also as, you know, therapeutic
for everything from cancer to Alzheimer's. There's all sorts of peptide trials.
What is a peptide? Can you explain to me like for, like I'm like 12?
It's smaller than a protein, larger than amino acid. Does that, so it's a, it's a specific
link of amino acids that has a general, that generally once it gets into circulation, it has
a, you know, a direct biological effect. It's effectively, you know, and I'm not a peptide
expert, so forgive your crudeness. And if you get, if you get mail on this, you know,
tell people to shut me up, they might be right. But it's basically using amino acid residues.
So a link of specific amino acid residues to behave at a specific receptor or a receptor
ligand, much like a drug would, like a small molecule drug would. But it's an amino acid based,
you know, those are the building blocks versus proteins are very long and, you know,
so much depends on folding proteins, things like that and how they act biologically.
Worse, peptides are usually shorter chain and there's much more of a direct short-term effect.
Peptides usually don't make it through the gut, but with improvements in technology now they do.
So they can be used orally versus before they were primarily used in injectable,
which is different from my industry. We don't, we don't inject anything into you.
Dietary cell when you got to take, you know, take in orally. But I think you'll see
if FDA, if you will, wins on NMN developments like that, where do they go? Like they can't,
you know, you really are blocked out of the market then because there's no reason why somebody
wouldn't take, especially with AI now, you could effectively model a molecular space,
file nuisance, you know, INDs on all of them and people could never sell them as a food,
or it is a dietary supplement. So, right. So, so much for innovation.
Yeah. Did you hear that there was a guy whose dog was dying and he used like chat GPT-4 and he
like basically like the vet said, we got to put your dog down. There's no helping him.
And he typed in all of his dog symptoms on chat GPT and the chat GPT like
suggested what to do, what to give him and what to feed him and it literally brought his dog back
to life. I wouldn't doubt that that, you know, I think you're going to hear more and more stories
like that these days. And it goes to the self-care thing too, right, is people don't,
when you're faced with that sort of dire consequence, you're going to try to find an
alternative. Right. You know, and it's not always that dire consequence. It may be something as
much as like, hey, I gained a few extra pounds or, you know, I don't feel as, I don't, I don't have
as much energy as I used to. And so, you know, folks are going to look. And so versus there's
got to be a general recognition by FDA that there are ingredients that are going to walk in two worlds
and there isn't always a bright line. And so how do you, how do you distinguish between the two?
That's really kind of where, where we are. And they don't seem to want to go there because of
that, like you mentioned, that pharma IP piece is, you know, that's the crown jewels to them. They
don't want to do anything that upsets that apple cart. So what are the, what, what stage are you in
with this battle with the FDA over NMN? And what is the status of NMN, like on Amazon and
different websites, even Shopify? Yeah, Shopify pulled it. And Amazon pulled it as well. And
they all kind of pulled around the same time, which was odd, back to the black helicopter thing.
Yeah. You know, we haven't seen what's, you know, from the agency, there's final agency action. They
actually will take a legal action or stipulate some sort of legal position. They haven't done that
to this point. To this point, all they've done is respond to NDI saying, we don't believe it's
a dietary ingredient because of this drug exclusion criteria. So there, we like to think
that's final agency action. The agency doesn't. We would be, we probably wouldn't be able to
have any sort of judicial relief on that because they could go, Hey, this isn't final agency action
to a judge and it would get quashed. So what we've done and identical to what we did on NAC,
we started with a citizen's petition. So a citizen's petition is we're trying to compel FDA to a
specific course of action. In this case, reverse their decision on NMN or similar to NAC, allow
forward in the marketplace, pretty much identical to what they did on NAC for NMN. That process
takes 180 days. We submit it on March 6th. So it becomes ripe, if you will, for the courts on
September 6th. So that would be probably the first chance we would get to say, Hey, Your Honor,
this is final agency action if folks were motivated to go there. So that's kind of the state of play
of things right now. Like we said, platforms have pulled at some platforms, some are still up and
selling it because it isn't final agency action. And I think, I think that's what's interesting.
But Amazon has pulled it. Amazon has pulled it. And who knows why? We've certainly reached out to
them. We haven't heard anything back, which is unfortunate. But that's another thing for people
to consider when they, where they're purchasing products. Because I think for Amazon, they,
who knows, they probably have to keep parts of the government happy too. And so if they can go,
look, we're a good corporate citizen. We took this off without even final agency action. Maybe
they get some brownie points. I don't know. But it's odd in that it kind of goes around due
process, right? Is FDA has not rendered a legal opinion. No different than if you got pulled over
for driving too fast and no car company would sell you a car anymore. And it's like, well,
I haven't even been to court on this yet, right? There's no like, what's the basis? Well,
you got pulled over. And it's like, okay, that's kind of the challenge.
Just keep shit in limbo for a long time. Yeah. And the limbo is economically, and again, FDA
knows this, the limbo, anytime you deal with the government, there's an old joke that when you
get, you know, when you have a legal entanglement with the government, you are innocent till
proven bankrupt. And I think that some of that, some of that applies here, right?
Wow. Yeah. And that, that a lot of companies, especially small mom and pop companies that
are selling online, probably can't survive without that Amazon exposure or that Shopify
exposure. Some of them can't. Yeah. Some of the platforms can't, some of the brands can't. So
I think that that's some of the challenges. How do you, how do you, you know, in FDA, like on
NAC, that hurt that part of the industry economically for a while as actions. Did FDA pay
anyone back on that? No. There was no, you know, there's no restitution on that. There was no,
you know, they certainly didn't pay our court costs and anything like that to, you know,
to file a lawsuit and anything else. But I think that's the reality. And it's a bit of a,
it's interesting. Other industries, pharmaceutical industry sues FDA frequently.
Really? Yeah. Quite frequently. So that's one of the things I think is in some ways good for,
for this industry is that needs to be more common because it's tougher and tougher to get
relief from Congress now. Congress is pretty well deadlocked. I mean, we've seen that for
how long now is you really deadlock Congress. They don't do as much as they used to. There's not as
much, you know, legislation as there used to be. And so, and for good reason, I mean, just some of
the rules of the road in Congress, the fact you've had so much redistricting that you've got pretty
safe seats on both sides, which makes it, hey, if I know I'm going to get reelected,
why am I going to do anything? I mean, that's what you see more and more, right? Yeah. So
that's really where the, the, if you will, the, as Wayne Gretzky used to say,
that's where the pucks going, right, is there's going to have to be on these issues. And people
are always like, well, lawsuits are expensive. Yeah, they are. But at the same time, if you
don't have another, you know, 100% of zero is zero. And so, if you don't have another path forward,
that's really where the industry's left is starting to move in those directions more and more.
So I'm sure there's people like you, lots of people like you who are basically helping
lead this fight. And how is this fight against the FDA being funded? And it seems like, you know,
are all of these NMN companies banding together and throwing in money for this? Or how does it
work? Some. So our organization is 87 years old. Our organization, I can say, and has sued the FDA
throughout history, never lost a lawsuit to FDA. What's the name of your organization?
Natural Products Association. Natural Products. NPAnational.org. Never lost to FDA. And it's
not because we sued them on everything. We were very selective, very targeted. And so
there's some banding together by companies. I think what you're seeing now is you're seeing
when Deshae passed FDA and FDA 958, Congress got more mail than they got for the Vietnam War.
Wow. Telling people, hey, members of Congress, I want to have access to my vitamins, my minerals,
my botanicals. Don't don't tread on that. Don't make FDA like drugs, right?
Worked. Worked very well. 30 years, you've seen more and more people use supplements and use them
safely. If you look at side by side of other commodities at FDA, if it's not the safest,
it's certainly one of the safest. You really don't see some of the challenges you may see with other
commodities. And people go, well, wait a second. Food's the safest thing. About 150,000 people
get hospitalized every year for produce, for norovirus and things like that. So, right, don't
see that challenge with dietary supplements. So a really strong safety record. So, but with that,
I think some people have been very successful in the industry. I think there's some apathy.
And we want to see more folks get involved in that level. And also, I think you have folks
that are scared of, well, if I sue the government, aren't they just going to come after me? It's like,
okay, let's play that through. If I sue the government, aren't they going to come after me
and target me? That's always a possibility. Can you control it? No. But if you have that mentality
that if I sue them, you know, I don't want to sue them because something bad could happen.
You've already lost. Right, right. I mean, it's a terrible premise because you're really,
you're basically like, you know, it's like, I don't want to do the right thing because
it may affect my livelihood. And it's like, when's that worked out well in history, you know?
Right. It's just kind of said, you know what, I'm just going to stuff it because, hey, yeah, so.
That's a good point. Yeah. It's an interesting time. We want more folks involved. We have a good
group of people involved on the NMN thing, but more folks should be involved. A lot of folks
are interested in NMN. I mean, it really is used very widely, you know, in some ways,
thanks to David Sinclair. Right. So yeah, I got some other bullet points on NMN,
just because I couldn't remember them, but it was called a dietary supplement by 100,
more than 100 researchers from around the world. It was called a supplement for years
by the co-founder of the pharmaceutical outlet in question. I'm assuming that's David Sinclair.
Yeah. Metro Biotech is his company. Okay. It's historically called a supplement in
pharmaceutical outfits, own clinical trials. So what's his company, Metro Biotech?
Yeah, that's the company he's, I think, one of the principles in. I don't think he's the CEO,
but I think he's one of the principles. Didn't he tweet something that he had nothing to do with it?
He may have. I don't think that's the case, though, because I think there's been some
prior things put down. So that's our understanding. And so, you know, I don't know if it's a case of
who knows, maybe people are upset that they didn't make money off of it as a supplement,
now they're trying to block it from the rest of the market. I don't know that, like I said,
we don't know yet what really the impetus is here. I guess people can say, well, the impetus is they
want to develop it as a blockbuster drug, but it's a little different in terms of how that's
going to move forward. What about cannabis and CBD? When did this whole thing get on the radar of
the FDA? Good question. When I was there, I was on the part of the cannabis working group there in
2013. So it's been on the radar, but CBD really became prominent in the market around what, 2016,
2017? Something like that. Around there. FDA had a big public meeting in 2019 where they said they
were going to do something. It was in May of 2019. And we're going to do something. Well,
they've proceeded to do nothing. And they were going to use the existing pathways because people
wanted to sell it, as we said, a beverage of food or as a dietary supplement. Now, there was the
drug product out there. The drug product got there. They got approved, I think in 20, I want to say
it was 2019, was the approval. And then DEAD scheduled it from a schedule, I think it was a
schedule one or schedule two to now schedule five. I think that was 2019 or 2018. So you go, wait a
second, Farm Bill passes in 2018 and Farm Bill says, okay, hemp is no longer not going to be
scheduled one so long as it's 0.3% or less of THC. Okay. So you've got to decriminalize there.
And FDA has proceeded to in the past five years, keep going, we're confused. We don't know what to
do. Now, other governments have moved ahead. FSAI, which is the Irish FDA, they've moved ahead with
a temporary level. The UK has moved ahead with a temporary level. What is a temporary level?
Of how much a day you can take of CBD and as a food or supplement. So there are other governments
that have moved ahead with allowing it as a food or supplement, but with a recommended upper level.
If people want to go past that. Is this only CBD or is this marijuana cannabis?
Only CBD. It's only CBD. Yeah. So I mean, other places, I mean, states obviously have their own
marijuana laws. Some states, I think 30 states have actual CBD laws on the books.
But that's patchwork, right? I mean, you very rarely get states to agree with each other on
sign of the technical aspects. How are you testing versus how am I testing? Is it the same?
So, and also you go state to state, it's interstate commerce, which is generally federal
jurisdiction, right? So you've got all these kind of moving pieces there. So with CBD, you have
this growth in the marketplace. It's so confusing. Yeah, it really is. No, but the bigger thing is
this is it's this drug exclusion criteria. Once again, is you people a hemp prior to the drug
being developed, right? I think we know that CBD has always been in hemp, right? We know this too,
as well as the other cannabinoids. Now, I'm not saying again that if somebody develops them as a drug,
you can't you can't have some exclusivity in the market. But the notion that somehow it should
never be allowed on the other path when, you know, especially with CBD, people aren't talking about
using it for seizure disorder. They're talking about using it for occasional sleeplessness,
occasional inflammation from, you know, workouts. So it's a total different use.
And yet the agency keeps going, well, we can't do anything with it. Now,
classic to government, they want a cannabis center. Of course, they do, right? The government
always wants more money, more power. So they want to lump CBD supplements in with vaped products
with everything and have this cannabis center. And so let me see if I get this right. You can't
solve the problem for one particular class of good, like a dietary supplement. So you're going to
combine dietary supplements with foods with animal feed with vape products with inhalation
products, and that's going to make it easier. It doesn't make any sense, right? And it's a delay
too. Center for Tobacco Products took about 10 years for them just to get up and running when
they got that authority from Congress. And it has not exactly been a success. I mean, they
keep saying vape products aren't regulated. Meanwhile, every, you see more and more vape
stories. Right. And so everybody vape. Right, right. And there's an argument to be made
public health wise. But because the way they set up the structure on tobacco,
you know, combustion products probably are tougher on your body than noncombustion products,
right? More than likely in terms of, you know, lung disease and those sorts of things.
Right. There are some studies that stipulate that. But you can't say it under that sort of a
combined regime that FDA has on tobacco, which in a lot of ways, I think they want that on cannabis
because I think they really don't like it and kind of, and they certainly don't like the dietary
supplement industry. So they want to kind of use it to take their shot. So we'll see where this
goes. But that's, that's kind of where things are with that. We filed a citizen petition on that
as well. They denied it in January of this year. They said. Really? They said the existing pathways
weren't adequate. And it's like, well, wait a second. You haven't used them. So we submitted
our citizen's petition. We gave them the option. One of our board members is a company called CBDMD
and they've done these. Oh, yeah. They've done these studies in Europe to get,
they actually are the, I think they're the only ones in Europe that have gotten through the process
in the UK that have actually gotten through the process because they've done, spent a lot of money
on big time science. And they're supposed to, right? It's new to the diet, if you will. So
they established a safety. Great. That's what we want. We were like, FDA, you could review this.
If you will say you're not going to consider the drug exclusion criteria. And they said no.
And so you keep hearing from them. We don't have the data. Well, here you go. You had company data,
probably a thousand pages of company safety data that showed a safe level. And they go,
man, we don't want to look at it. And it's like, how do you get out there in the press and go,
we can't, we can't use existing pathways? Well, if you're not even going to review the damn data,
what do you do? So this is the problem we're having. And a lot of people are talking.
And what can be done now, though, that they said that?
This is, this is the question, right? We really need to find someone in Congress
who's willing to push them around on the issue. And that's the challenge. Yeah. Yeah. Or once
again, use the courts. And I think that's the issue. And I think the courts are tougher because I
think, I think the financial interests in CBD are much more, I think they're dispersed a lot. I
could be wrong, but I think they're dispersed a lot. I think you have some interest from some of
the tobacco companies, which is ironic when you think about it, because they want to,
right? They want to say, well, no, see, we've, we've cut our use of tobacco. We're a safer
company. We're a safer product now. Take that for what it's worth. Then you have folks who,
you know, really are very well versed in hemp. And to the extent they want to line up behind
kind of the existing authorities, I'm not so sure. They may think that they're special or
different. They might be different, but it's still a botanical. And botanicals, we regulate either
as a food or dietary supplement or we regulate them as a drug, with the exception of tobacco.
So you've got to fit in one of those two worlds. So we'll see. But yeah,
it's going to be either Congress or the courts on this because otherwise it's just FDA delaying
indefinitely and back to what we said. It's, it protects that pharmaceutical IP. It really does.
It has, that's the net effect of all of it is the pharmaceutical IP that blockbuster drug for CBD.
Nobody's technically legally encroaching on its market share.
So couldn't a company like a big tobacco company sort of like get that patent and sell it that
way as a tobacco? It depends. I mean, it depends. Well, I guess part of, yeah, I guess it's part
of that. Because wasn't there a big fight with tobacco and like vaping when vaping first came out?
Yeah. Wasn't there like a big buyout where tobacco kind of like bought out all the vaping
companies? I forget what company it was. Or was it the ad agency or something?
They bought some of them. I know that. I think the bigger thing is this is, you know, you've got,
you've got a very different set of rules and foods and dietary supplements than you do on tobacco,
right? They really can't make claims in the tobacco world at FDA. Because there's no,
for foods and dietary supplements and drugs, you're always on what's called kind of the risk
benefit continuum, right? Everyone has to eat foods. Some foods, if they provide a benefit,
you can claim that benefit, right? Vitamin D, calcium, et cetera, for dietary supplements,
structure function claims, promotes healthy metabolism, promotes healthy gut function.
You know, those are, but you have to prove it. You have to have substantiation,
but you can make those claims. On tobacco, like, I don't know, I may be dating myself here, but
they used to say on certain cigarettes contains, you know, 30% less nicotine or tar or whatever.
When FDA took over tobacco, those claims went away. Because there, it's a risk or harm reduction
type part of the law. It's a very different part of the law than the rest of FDA. So it's,
it'll be interesting to see if people try to stick cannabis into that part of the law.
I think that's an incredibly bad idea, but they might give it a shot.
You can still buy CBD though, pretty much everywhere in the U.S.
Yeah. That's the irony in all this, right? As FDA is a public health agency,
and for them, they throw up their arms and go, we don't know what to do to protect consumers.
It's like, there are products out there now. You can go inspect and test facilities now and make
sure at least there's no contaminants, at least products aren't loaded with THC, at least there
aren't heavy metals or pesticides, and they're not doing that. And that's the bigger, I think
that's the bigger letdown for everybody. How can you sit there and go, we're worried about safety
when you've done nothing? Yeah, it's disheartening. Yeah. And this, this makes me
very pessimistic about marijuana ever becoming legalized in the country.
I mean, I think there are a lot of it up to the States. I think broadly federally,
yeah. I mean, federally, there's a few hurdles, though it sounds like, I mean,
what's interesting now is with all the different financial products, I think some of the,
I think whether it's through kind of a coin or a crypto or some other financial mechanism,
I think there are ways now that you can, it may not be insured in an FDIC bank,
but it seems like folks have come up with ways to bank on it, you know, which is interesting.
You know, the markets, the financial markets kind of found a crack in the dam. I don't know how
that'll play with the capital markets and getting investors and things like that, but
it does seem like there's some movement banking-wise without Congress doing what they needed to do
banking-wise on it. So that may change things a bit. How does that affect drug legalization,
like for marijuana? Well, if you were legally transferring money across state lines now,
like if it's a legal vehicle to transfer money across state lines, that takes, that takes kind of
the, you know, all the money laundering, the wire fraud, mail fraud, some of that off the plate.
By using like cryptocurrencies? Could be. Crypto could be different, you know,
different financial products, but I know that folks feel like there are ways to stabilize that
through the use of different electronic financial products. Oh, interesting. Yeah.
Because like now what they have to do with these dispensaries is they have to have these like
brinks trucks come and pick up the cash and they drive it to the, where they drive it.
Like a credit union, because they can't use it. Yeah, they can't use an FDIC bank. So yeah,
yeah, it's interesting. Whereas I think people have really thought about it long and hard and
not that they found a way around it, but they kind of found a way through with different,
you know, who knows. But the bigger thing is this, is it shouldn't be,
this shouldn't be as complicated an issue as it become, right? There's really the thumb on the
scale on a lot of this in terms of kind of in specific, less so on THC because that's not my
space. But on the CBD space, it's just there's really, there's no reason why that part of banking,
right? Like there's no reason there should be a prohibition on that part of banking on industrial
hemp. I mean, Farm Bill should have removed that. So it's an odd, it's odd. Very odd.
And what is going on with, I also heard that there's something going on with testosterone therapy,
where they're trying to ban telemedicine clinics from prescribing testosterone to guys with low
testosterone or different variants. Yeah. They're trying to control that more. They're worried
about, I think, you know. Since when? When have they, when did that come on their radar? I don't
know. I don't, you know, it almost seems like, it's funny because so much of that, I think,
remember during COVID, everyone was pushing telemedicine and it's like, use telemedicine for
everything. Don't go see your doctor. And now it's like, no, come see your doctor. So it almost
seems reflexive in that regard. It's like there's that wanting to bring back, you know,
hey, we've got control over this. You can't do this by telemedicine. You can't, you know,
you can't basically have a, you know, an online presence to self-prescribe yourself to need HRT,
whereas a few years ago, it seemed to be fine. Yeah. And there's lots of like, so there's these
telemedicine clinics that are everywhere. There's hundreds of them. And they basically,
they'll like call somebody up on the phone, they'll fill out a survey, tell them how they're
feeling, they had to get their blood work done, they analyze their blood work and say, hey,
you can get this much testosterone or whatever and we'll send it to you. We'll mail it to you.
Right. But they get it from these like compounding pharmacies, right? Yeah.
Does the FDA inspect these compounding pharmacies? They're supposed to. And the FDA, a while ago,
actually when I was at the agency, you had, you had the compounding pharmacy in mass where people
died of some bacterial and fungal contaminants. This was 10, 10 plus years ago. But FDA at the
time goes, well, we don't have authority over accompanying pharmacies when actually it was
kind of shown that they do. So they do, compounding pharmacies do have some leeway and it's usually
through state licensure, but they're still, if it's, if they're producing anything in a batch
type manner, which some of this is produced in a batch type manner, right? They're not just making
specific for you. They're making, okay, they're going to make a batch of 60 and folks that meet
that diagnostic, then they'll give them out. Then it would be FDA's jurisdiction.
I imagine most of the production is done that way. So in those cases, FDA would have jurisdiction
over the quality and those sorts of things. So yeah, it's an interesting, it is interesting
though considering that, yeah, during, during COVID everything was, no, telemedicine, telemedicine,
telemedicine. And now it's, nope, you got it. Yeah. Yeah, it's very odd. Well, like you said,
the technology's there. I mean, I think the diagnostics to some degree of telling someone
what their hormone levels are, are, and again, this isn't my, my area of expertise, my area of
oversight, but, but it is interesting in that you seem to have, you know, was fine a few years ago
and now it's not. So we'll see how that plays out. Yeah, because it's such a, it's such a simple,
it's such a simple compound that can help people in so many different ways. Like there's so many
different diseases and conditions that having proper hormone levels can fix, whether you're a
woman or you're a man, depending on what to, you know, if your guy has a low testosterone,
that can lead to all sorts of things like heart disease and, and everything else. But
you can get this cheapest testosterone that costs, you know, less than 50 bucks a month or whatever,
that can, that can help these things. And, and if you just maintain and pay attention to what
your blood, your blood work and your testosterone levels and, and your vitamin levels and all this
stuff, it's, it's very easy to do if you can pay attention to it. Yeah, the vitamin level
thing is critical for us. We tell people all the time is get, get those tested, get, know what
those are. Those are, you know, incredibly important, especially vitamin D. I mean, vitamin D was,
you know, it's, it's interesting. Vitamin D was one of the biggest, biggest cohorts for COVID
mortality was vitamin D status. And so we, you know, it's, it's, it's important. And we know
other governments actually told people, and I think the UK was sending people vitamin D.
Right. That wasn't kind of the strategy here, which was interesting.
So yeah, I mean, with the technology, with getting tested and combining those,
you know, you got to be careful with what you say. But for something that's approved as a drug,
it's the rules are different. I mean, for nutritionals, the rules are, you got to be very
careful and not say, hey, if you're, have low levels of vitamin D, you need this much to avoid
disease. You can't say that, but you do need to say, hey, your levels are low. Here's what you need
to get back to an optimal or, you know, worthwhile level. Right. What did FDA do specifically
during the pandemic that would you say they did, would you say that they did
performed well during the pandemic? Or how would you analyze how they responded to everything
during the pandemic? Well, I mean, we had NAC during the pandemic. So that was kind of,
yeah, having a fight on the NAC thing. When folks are worried about, you know, so many,
so many other factors was a bit poor timing. I think our biggest concern was inspections,
was the delay or ceasing of inspections. We understand that people didn't want to go out
and do inspections, go to facilities. We worked really hard with the White House to make sure
dietary supplement manufacturers were deemed essential. That was important that they stayed
open. We actually wrote letters saying, look, if you need extra production to produce
whatever hand sanitizer, we're happy to use our facilities to do that. So,
you know, we tried to be helpful anyway possible because I think early on, nobody knew what was
happening. Everyone was just like, look, and our board was great. They were like, what do we do
to help? Right. Yeah, I think that's the biggest thing is like, why during a pandemic are we,
when people are just trying to say healthy, why are you going to start looking at ways to,
you know, I'm not of the belief that the universe of dietary supplements and nutritional should
be completely unlimited. But I do believe it's an expanding universe, not a contracting universe.
Right. And whereas I think the agency took the opportunity to go, no, we need to contract
the universe. And I think that's kind of at the core of whether it's NMN, CBD, NAC,
I think that's at the core of those issues is they want to contract what folks have access to.
One of the things that disturbs me is that, I don't know if it was FDA or NIH, but they owned
like 50% of some of these vaccine patents, like the Moderna patent, for example, I think,
I think NIH owned like 50% of these Moderna patents and they were like buying up all these
vaccines and they actually had them and they needed to get rid of them. And people were encouraged
not to talk about supplements and stuff like that and don't talk about that. That's bullshit
because we really need to be focusing on the vaccines because that's what's really going to
help people. Now, we had states actually, three states, and Massachusetts shut everything down.
So we weren't unique. They shut down all stores for about two weeks and we fought,
but we were Massachusetts, that wasn't going to happen. What was interesting is Nevada
shut down specifically supplement stores and health and wellness stores.
There was a great, so it was interesting, some of the pretty large bodybuilding community out
there and so they go, you know, gyms were, some gyms were closed, some gyms were open. It seems
like some folks were kind of like sneaking folks in the gyms, which I think is kind of cool, but
they would go and take pictures at a strip mall and an ice cream store would be open,
but the supplement shop would be closed and it was, it kind of, it didn't get viral,
but it certainly got a lot of attention where people were like, what's going on here?
McDonald was open.
Yeah. Yeah. And so we had a bit of a head butted with the governor out there in Nevada,
like, what are we doing here? Because it was, it's like, well, wait a second,
why are you, why is your order to shut down something where people are trying to stay healthy
versus, you know, it was a weird, it was a weird time and it was weird what people made into a
priority versus, you know, we knew vitamin D was really important. We knew zinc was really important
and, you know, we tried to make sure folks had options there.
And, you know, another scary thing is like they discouraged,
like practicing doctors from talking to each other and actually like talking about what
works with patients and what doesn't work with patients. They were unable to experiment with
any sort of like therapies or any sort of things to prevent COVID. It was just like
all of these big agencies just pushing one thing on everybody. And when you look at their close
ties with pharmaceutical companies, that gets really scary, especially when you have the hindsight
of looking at the opioid crisis and, and some of these things like these patents and, you know,
all this stuff. And a lot of these things, like I told you, I read that Dr. Fauci book by Robert
Edd Kennedy, he talks about how they specifically tried to like shun some of these medicines,
like hydroxychloroquine and I think ivermectin and they pushed them out to all these other
countries, like the third world countries could get them, but we couldn't get them.
Yeah. Well, I think, you know, you see, and you bring up OxyContin,
we always get told in the supplement industry, well, you guys aren't regulated because,
you know, you aren't, you don't go through the drug approval process,
but in the drug approval process is apparently perfect, except it's not, except we've seen
challenges, we've seen challenges with, you know, with OxyContin and with other things.
And, you know, again, I think, I think the whole concept of a natural product is,
look, you know, your milk every day has enough calcium of vitamin D to help a kid build strong
bones, you know that you don't need to clinical trial that like we know that the science as well
established. Right. So if you took everything in the industry and required a, you know,
you know, required a phase one, two, three type approval, would you have what, about 20
products, 30 products? Probably, I mean, with the cost with everything else. So
the economic aspect comes in, but the bigger thing is, these are things from the diet. These
aren't most, the majority industry is things from the diet. Probably, you know, 80% of the
country uses a supplement every day. And probably one third of that is people using a
multivitam, multi-mineral supplement, you know, these things that we don't get enough of in the
diet anymore. You know, we have, you know, you see frequently people have low vitamin D status,
low magnesium status, things like that. Okay, where are they going to get it from? Well, just,
the argument back is always, we'll eat a better diet. Okay. So with all the demands on time now,
which are much greater than they were 20, 30, 40 years ago, where's that going to happen? And so
it's, what do they say? They, at that point, they kind of get quiet. But I mean, you look at,
you know, we always look at the dietary guidelines, right? And the dietary guidelines
for the first time ever kind of said, well, hey, supplementation can be good. But there's
some walking back of that too. The dietary guidelines also for a long time told us that,
you know, don't eat any fat in the diet too. It's like, well, that turned out to be not such a good
recommendation. So the food pyramid was basically upside down on purpose. What is the history of
the food pyramid? It was like paid for by, I forget what company, I want to say it was like
Kellogg's or something. But there were some, maybe you can look it up. Who paid for the original
food pyramid? I don't know if you've ever heard anything about that. No, I haven't. I haven't.
This might be a black helicopters thing. But I heard that there was like a big food manufacturer
that actually like sponsored and paid for the traditional food pyramid that has basically
bread at the bottom of it. The saying that the foundation of a meal is bread. It's like the
very top was eggs, right? Don't eat too many eggs, right? The food pyramid is a...
Well, this is like the standard definition based by Wikipedia. I'm looking for the tinfoil hat.
He's looking for the tinfoil hat. We gotta get that one going. No, but I mean, I think that's the
question. Search for like who really came up, who really developed the food pyramid? Something
like that. Sorry, what were we saying? No, it's interesting though, because... And I think this
is where the issue comes back to. We started off with doctors only get about 16 hours of
nutritional education, including supplements. So there's so much good information out there now
that folks are... They're going to hear things that sound fishy and go, wait a second, I eat eggs
every day and my cholesterol is great. But I mean, now it's... All you hear about with people
talking... Now that we have this open information and open dialogue on the internet and YouTube,
you have people talking about all the benefits of high fat, low carb diets. And one guy I've
had in here multiple times, Dr. Dom D'Agostino has studied, he's been funded by the DoD to study
ketogenic diets for navy seals for their oxygen toxicity seizures. So when the seals
dive and they use the little rebreathers, they could get oxygen toxicity seizures. And what
they did was they experimented on putting them on these really low carb ketogenic diets,
and it would completely get rid of the seizures. So he's like parlayed that into...
What is the name of the disease where people have seizures? Epilepsy. So he's been studying
that on epilepsy patients and completely... Reverse. Eradicated all seizures from these
epileptic epilepsy patients by putting them on a strict ketogenic diet. Fascinating.
And that's the interesting piece is everybody wants the personal aspect now and their technology
is coming online to be personal. So that's kind of where this fallacy that you have compounds that
walk into worlds, that won't hold up under that paradigm either because people are going to respond
differently to something at a higher dose versus a lower dose. And again, if these are
things that were already in the diet, I just don't understand the utility other than to
protect that pharma IP. I mean, that's really the only clear line you can draw on all of this as to
why things are kind of kept out of one side of the market. How come... I mean, the pharmaceutical
companies, they've... I think I heard this quote from Robert Kennedy. He said that they've literally
paid out... They've killed more kids every year from pharmaceutical drugs from like overdoses
than in the entire Vietnam War, every single year for the last 20 years. How can nothing be done
about that? And they pay billions of dollars. They just get sued for killing these things like...
What was the name of that drug? Was it Vioxx or something? A drug that they were sued for...
They killed like 70,000 people and there was a big lawsuit and they made like... These numbers
are way off, but they made something like 60 billion on the drug and then by the time they got
through the lawsuit, all they had to do was pay out like 10 billion in damages or something like
that. And they got away. They still made a profit, right? They profited like 50 billion dollars still
and they just keep doing that. They can keep getting away with it even with these big billion
dollar lawsuits. Well, the good news is is like on NAC, NMN and CBD, one thing we've really had
and made a focus is if folks want to see these things available and continue to be available as
a supplement and continue to be available for self-care, they can write their members of Congress
and they need to. I mean, we have platforms that can do that and go to our website, click on take
action. It goes through the firewalls and they can say, look, I want to have access. Why is the
access being restricted? There really isn't a good reason. And so people can still make their voice
heard, which is... I don't want people to feel powerless. I don't want to feel people like,
okay, there's just this monolithic industry that's just going to wipe out the other side
of the world. I don't think that's right. I think people want, like I said, I think people really
want that ability to self-govern their health care and their wellness. Again, I'm not advocating
that people delay the treatment of disease. I'm not saying that there's not an importance to
pharmaceutical development. We're not saying that at all. But there's got to be... This pathway is...
The structure works. I mean, the people that use supplements have grown from probably less than
half the country to now about 80% of the country since 1994. And the reason for that is products
are used safely. There's efficacy. So people are deriving a benefit. And why should that be...
Why should things be precluded from that that clearly intentionally can fit in the space?
Right. You know, why should the options be restricted because somebody wants to just
block the way for the sake of blocking the way? Yeah, it would suck to see this happen with a
lot of the great supplements that are out there right now. I think one of the most basic ones is
even creatine. Creatine has so many positive benefits for so many different things when
people take it. And it's so cheap. Could you imagine if they try to do something like this
with creatine? Well, it actually is happening on the state level. States are looking at...
It's funny. We've been fighting... So we talk a lot about federal. We talk about FDA. We fight
battles in the states, too. And the states are interesting right now is there's a group at a
Harvard and everyone thinks Harvard, wow, they know what they're doing. They let me in there,
so it's not that great. But this group called Striped and their whole premise is that dietary
substance are leading to eating disorders. And so specifically in the bodybuilding or muscle
building area and then weight management, fat loss, things like that. And their whole premise
is it's for the kids, which is always a great premise. People love that premise. Oh, hey,
we're protecting the kids. The kids, the kids, the kids. Okay. Who's going to argue against that?
And they usually bring in a kid who had some eating disorder issue and says it was the supplements.
Okay. Now, you're not going to... You're never going to say, okay. Like what type of supplements?
That's the problem. They're never descriptive. But you're seeing because it does touch on...
They're saying like in males, it's body dysmorphia. So something like creatine is actually directly
being attacked because people are like, oh, yeah, the creatine, it's making me have body
dysmorphia. Meanwhile, creatine has been studied for 40 years. It's like the most studied. It really
is. And the safety record is wonderful. And this whole notion that somehow it's leading to eating
disorders. There are pharmaceuticals that actually do lead to eating disorders. People develop
anorexia, bulimia from certain pharmaceuticals. We've never seen... Adderall.
It might be. We looked at... I forgot which ones we looked at. I have to go back and check my notes,
but we looked at and we foy it. We did Freedom of Information Act requests on FDA on adverse
events and dietary substance eating disorders since 2019. There hasn't been one. Not one.
Wow. So, right. So this whole premise, it's like, well, it's protecting the children. And they always
go... It's funny. They always start with, well, because of social media. And it's like, well,
is problem social media or is the problem dietary supplements? Because it's kind of...
Yeah, especially now with the AI, you see unhealthy pictures on social media. You see pictures of,
oh, hey, look, someone created a body that no one could ever... Like 0.001% of population
could ever achieve. And people are measuring themselves to that standard. So that's where
it's interesting, is it's just... The issue gets attention. The dietary supplement issue gets a
lot of attention and press. And these folks at the state level, 45% of Congress in Washington,
D.C., once served in a state house or a state Senate. And so they are doing anything they can
to springboard, if you will, their careers up. And so the issue gets press. I mean, it does. It's
always amazing to me having done this or so on how much press the issue gets. So...
What about... Can we talk about cancer for a little bit?
Sure. I heard that some of these vaccine companies were talking about developing a
cancer vaccine. They've been looking at cancer vaccines for a long time.
Really? Yeah. What is... Do you know what CAR-T therapy is?
Not familiar with it, no. Okay. I was hoping you did. I don't really know much about it either.
But I heard that it's basically... It's a type of cell or gene therapy that they can do where they
take the cancer cells or take cells out of your body, they manipulate them somehow,
and they put them back in your body. And it has had 99.9% effective rate on cancer.
Not familiar with it. I mean, I... I wonder what these big agencies are thinking about
or planning when it comes to cancer and when we can develop something for cancer.
I mean, there's been a lot of drugs developed over the course of the years. Like I said,
especially from natural products world, last big breakthrough was Taxol, which was actually
from a plant. So I'm a big proponent of natural product drug discovery programs.
I think they... I'm biased, though. That's my academic background.
But some of the biggest discoveries we had are from plants. And so hopefully there'll be more of
that as... I got to think with the technology a lot of times, especially the modeling now.
You know, I don't know if it's AI. I don't know what it is, but basically manipulating that sort
of learning path, right? Like, okay, maybe the compound was trialed in the wrong cell culture
or wrong cellular target versus what's available now or what our understanding is now.
So yeah, I think you'll see more of that. I hope so.
You know, there's a lot of... The technology is growing so fast that it's like, how do all
the pieces fit together? Right. Yeah, I mean, the people you got to worry about is just the people
that don't pay attention to it and the people that need the guidance, right? Like, I would have to
say that's probably most of the country people don't give a shit about what they eat. They just
eat whatever they can because it's cheap or it's convenient. I mean, I think convenience is that
I think the time is the issue is I think we don't encourage people to make it a priority, right?
As we work, work, work, work, work, work, work, work, produce a product versus, you know, having...
You know, it goes back to... I think goes back to where we started is like, where are you getting
your information from and why. Yeah, health is not... You know, even now, all the debates we have
in even the way... Like, you look at obesity and discussion about obesity. It's weaponized. It's
not like, hey, what's the challenge? Like, what's the actual root cause? It's always weaponized
politically, right? Right. I'm not telling people to... I'm not telling people that they shouldn't
find value in themselves, but I think when things are at odds with your health, right? Like,
things that could harm you and that's not... I mean, that's inappropriate to weaponize on any level.
Right. You know, I mean, that's really the thing and that's why it is important that people get
their levels of things checked. They are on top of... There's no excuse to be not knowledgeable
about your health. There really isn't. And especially in this day and age, that's critical.
And especially if there are institutions that aren't knowledgeable about your health, you know,
be careful of where you take that information in from.
Yeah, because there's a big difference between somebody who has some sort of genetic disorder
where they can't control their obesity or their metabolism or if they have, you know,
diabetes or something like that. But then, you know, if there's something... If there's a way
you can get some sort of baseline check and figure out, look, that you don't have any of
these disabilities, this is all lifestyle and diet, you can definitely fix this. Don't make it
something... Don't promote that kind of lifestyle. You have to promote the kind of lifestyle that's
going to better yourself and other people and help you live longer. Like you said,
the whole thing about convenience is a big problem and people not having time to pay attention to
or having time to cook their own food or, you know, know the difference between olive oils and
seed oils. You know, seed oils are a huge problem. There's a lot of discussion on that right now.
I think, look, it goes... Here's the thing, is our knowledge is always changing. We know that now.
And as it pertains to what we choose in terms of self-care, I think it's more critical than ever
that people have to get involved, is people do have to get... Nobody wants to get involved
politically to shape these things, but you have to. There's a saying in DC that if you're not
at the table, you're on the menu. I think so many people have kind of just walked away. And I
understand there are more crunches on people's time than ever that, you know, you have to be
sympathetic to that or at least empathetic to that, but not getting involved to have, you know,
options when it comes to your ability to, you know, what is it you can... You know, and not that
there shouldn't be checks and balances in place. There should be safety checks and balances in
place. You want FDA to inspect and test, right? I mean, could you imagine what would happen if
everybody who used a supplement wrote Congress and said, hey, Congress, FDA needs to up their
inspections? You know, even the infant formula thing, I don't think you saw the kind of outcry
that really could have shaped things for the better, which is... And that's where you got to,
you know, and you've got a great platform to tell people to get involved and to not be apathetic
and get out there and say, hey, look, what's going on? You know, we just had an issue with infant
formula, infant formula availability. I mean, they're flying in planes from Europe to bring
us infant formula because we don't have any... That's wild. Right. But people, like, they forgot
about it. And you go, wait a second. No, no, no, no. This has to be fixed for the future. Like,
what systems are in place to ensure this isn't going to happen again? Or at least there are some
sort of, you know, there's some sort of guidance to people, okay, how do I know... Like, how is it
I know that FDA is actively testing and inspecting? Like, are they going to tell us, like, hey, we
inspected this many infant formula? You know, nobody knows that. That's not what makes the news.
That's what should make the news. Right. You think that the landscape with the FDA and all these
agencies and general health in the country would benefit from a universal health care system?
That's a tough... You guys have me tough questions up. A little outside the scope of my job. I think
universal health care... Well, it's interesting to hear your opinion. Just from your experience
and working in the FDA and working with all people that you do, it's...
Yeah, universal health care is tough, I think. I think there's so many issues. I've seen...
And I have my biases. I have some friends who... I'm a big fan of the...
I'm a big fan of the doctor-run hospitals, of the doctor-owned hospitals, you know, where they're
shareholders. It's not just like, oh, hey, I built some... You know, I had to build some hours for
another insurance company. It's like, no, no, we're a self-contained unit. I think there's more
I think people care more that way, which I think is ultimately what's lacking, right?
You know, I think ultimately that's the frustration people generally have when they
encounter an institution, right? Or, you know, a medical center, a government agency, is there's
there's a lack of care by that institution, whether it's a government agency, whereas if it's...
It's like diffusion of responsibility. I'm a big fan of small business, right? And this makes...
You know, you can have a big hospital run like a small business. I think that that's...
You know, I think ultimately... I don't want to say that's what everybody wants, but I think if
this level of care is there, I think people want that. I think people want bedside manner. I think
they want to have a real conversation with their doctor. I don't think they want to just see
the checklist. Okay, did you do this, this, this, and this? Oh, are you still doing this? Why?
You know, or in the case of our industry, I don't think people want to see a doctor where they go,
hey, and it's no fault to the doctors, per se. The doctor only has 16 hours of nutrition
information, and they go, hey, doc, there's this new supplement I want to take. Oh, no, no,
don't take those. Right? I think that's the response by a lot of the medical communities.
Don't take those. Really? Yeah, you see it from... If you look at different medical societies,
they'll have positions on supplements like don't use them ever and things like that. And you go,
okay, that's... The problem with that is you... One, the only thing you guarantee is that person's
still going to keep doing that behavior. They're just not going to tell you anymore as the doctor.
Right? They're going to go, okay, I can't tell this, you know, this guy or girl that I... Yeah,
I like these supplements. I use these supplements because they told me not to use them and it's,
you know, you don't know what's in them, blah, blah, blah. Right. When the actuality is, who knows?
They may have, you know, they may have done the research and they may know all about, you know,
companies now post some of their manufacturing processing online. There's some really steady
the art stuff out there that people know about. And that guides people's purchasing decisions.
And if you go to a doctor who isn't as knowledgeable and you go, hey, what about this?
Did you see the study in this? The doctor's like, nope, don't do any of it ever. It's kind of like
when your parents would tell you, why? And, you know, when you're young, I told you so. Well,
outside of your parents, that's the only person that's kind of a right answer for, right? I think
that's okay if for the parents who are doing it. But when, you know, someone in an institution
does it, it's a little... It generally, long term, tends to have the opposite effect of intended.
People are going to go, I'm going to do that anyway and probably go further because it's like,
you didn't give me... You kind of dissed me with that answer, right? Like you didn't...
I wanted to know something about this. I went to you as the authority and you just basically,
one, you showed you weren't knowledgeable and two, you just dismissed it out of hand. You
didn't listen to it at all. And I think that that puts a lot of people off.
Right. And there's also, there's like executives of drug companies that are like going to visit
these doctors and like taking them out to dinners and stuff like that and trying to get them to
prescribe more of their drugs. And, you know, even the doctors are financially incentivized
because they make more money to prescribe certain things than others.
No, I think that's, you know, and again, you're talking about an institutionalized approach.
I think so much of this has been institutionalized where it's like people have their, you know,
we have too many institutions picking winners and losers and not empowering people to really
look into what's going to work for them and not that they shouldn't listen to them.
Right. It's not a meritocracy of healthcare.
Right. Right. And that's what it should be. I mean, ultimately, I think that's what we all
want. We want to know like we're getting, you know, we started this conversation with,
are we getting the best or, you know, we can get at this point in time for what we need versus,
are we just getting some bureaucratic response to a challenge and maybe a difficult challenge, but
okay. Like, you know, that's our frustration right now is, you know, like with,
like I said with the reduced inspections and testing, it's like, that's important. I know
it may not sound exciting, but it's important. People need to know that facilities are out there,
you know, out there being inspected. You know, the one thing I was lucky, like I said, they sent
us to, when I was at FDA, they sent us to Harvard for an exec program to learn to be better regulators.
And the one thing it taught me and made a lot of sense, again, Malcolm Sparrow, brilliant guy.
If you're a good chance to read, called Character of Harms, really talks about
kind of the regulatory arts, if you will, and how you regulate a space. And he said, you know,
it's a bell curve. He goes, you've got, you've got your regulator and then you've got your field of
companies to be regulating. It's a bell curve. And you want to always move that bell curve to the
right, to companies are increasing, you know, increasing compliance with the law, taking issue
like GMPs, like quality, you always want to make sure that the standards are continuously improving.
So how do you do that? You do that by the companies that are already on the bell curve and are
complying, you help them further, you know, you promote the good things they're doing.
But the bigger thing is, you know, are you dealing with the folks that aren't going to comply? Are
you dealing with the folks that really aren't, you know, are behaving in a way that they shouldn't?
And I think that's the problem now is the focus isn't on, hey, no system is without problems,
but instead of focusing on the problems and trying to solve those one way or the other,
we're focused on, and the problems aren't the whole bell curve, right? The problems are a part
of, a very small part of. And so instead of focusing on that and dealing with that, we're
going to make the whole thing a big problem and then nothing gets done. And no one has any incentive
to move forward because it's all, if you treat everybody like they're, you know, they're the
bad guy, you know, it's a problem, right? You know, it's the same thing that doctor,
if you go to the doctor, hey doc, I use this supplement. They're like, don't ever do that.
It's like, what did that person do wrong? You know, they had a question. So I think that's the
challenge is there's a lack of a, you know, I call a small business feel or bedside manner,
but I think there's a big lack of that right now. If there's a system that brings that back,
all for it. Right, right. And it's hard to see right now if there is a way for that to ever
happen, at least in my lifetime. So again, what can people do to, like you said, they can write
to the FDA in regard to NMN? Well, they can write to Congress.
In terms of they can write to Congress. Yeah. If you go to our website,
npanational.org, you can click a button, take action. It takes 30 seconds. There are,
there are electronic systems that get behind, you know, there are firewalls in Congress. Like,
if you try to write them, sometimes you'll get blocked and things like that because they get
so much email and things like that. This will actually get behind the firewall and you can,
you know, tell them, hey, I want to have access. Okay, what is this?
npanational.org. Yep. So write that little button on the right hand side, take action.
There's our fly-in, too. Oh, cool. You can come to DC and meet with your members of Congress.
You set up meetings for folks in the industry and members of Congress. Yeah. Yeah, they get to
meet with their senators, their house, their person, the house of representatives and tell
them about the industry, tell them all the good they're doing. So it's, yeah, it's a cool thing.
I think we've got about 110 registered right now, which isn't bad. We haven't done it for four years
because of COVID because you couldn't. This is the first time we're actually let back into
congressional offices without an appointment and someone coming to let you in. So it's nice.
It's, it's, it was shut. It's kind of odd. It's like, wait a second,
Congress works for the people, but you can't see them. So that's, that's gone. But yeah,
so if you click on the take action button up in the corner, it goes right to a list of issues.
So the first one, protect NMN access to supplements and click on that. And so it'll
populate a letter. It'll go to both your, it'll go to your. And this gets through the firewall.
Yeah, like it's a frail. So this one's going to the secretary of HHS, the president, vice president.
No way. That's cool. Yeah. And so it gets mail up there on NMN. I think our engagement right now
is about 50,000 letters, which isn't bad. We're not a consumer organization. I mean,
we're an industry organization, which consumer organizations, there's some good ones. We work
with one called Alliance for Natural Health. They do a great job too. Their email lists are,
you know, pretty, pretty extensive on people who use supplements. And it's great because they
really rally folks to go after it. Has anything like this, any sort of campaigns like this
ever work? Oh yeah. Oh yeah, we've had, we've been a part of some really good ones.
You know, gosh, just last year, there was a drive by a senator from Illinois, Senator Richard
Durbin, who's a very longstanding critic of the industry to really institute some pretty,
pretty bad provisions that would allow for, we keep talking about this challenge of
having Amazon de-list things without any sort of due process, right? What he was proposing
would basically make, put that on, if you will, steroids. He would make that to where that was
kind of the rule of the land. And so we were able last year, just our group alone, we'd over 100,000
emails. I think that group I mentioned, the Consumer Group Alliance for Natural Health,
had almost a million. So yeah. So there was a lot of mail going to members of Congress saying,
hey, you know, and emails have, you know, you can either have relationships,
personal relationships with members of Congress, which is great, you know, to try to
shape what happens policy-wise. Right. But the two things they listen to were donations,
obviously, which for our industry, we don't have that sort of corporate giving that, you know,
other industries do. You know, I'd like to see an increase, but you know, because ultimately,
in D.C., there's 4,000 associations in D.C., right? So, okay, and that's just associations. So
you figure all the lobbyists, everything else, everyone every day is just fighting for oxygen,
right? And so how do you get more airtime with a member of Congress? Well, you know, generally,
and it's not like you pay them money, they do what you want, but you support their campaign for
reelection, you know, you're a friend of their family, if you will, so to speak, in that regard.
So they may, you know, they may listen to you, they may not, but at least you get the airtime.
But the power of the grassroots is they look at that and they go, wait, if somebody's willing
to send me an email, they're probably willing to go and vote. So that calculus, they keep real
close tabs on that calculus, right? You go, wait a second, my district, you know, I got 100,000
emails, that's enough to win or lose a congressional district. Are there any big lobbies in support
of the supplement world? I mean, we're technically, you know, we're a trade association, we are a C6,
which is a, which is a lobbying group. Okay. But not a lobbying group. C6 is technically a
lobbying group. Well, C6 is in a trade association, which means you can lobby on issues. C3s can
also lobby, but there are restrictions in the tax code to the amount of time and paying contract
lobbyists and things like that. So it's different. But yeah, we're the oldest and largest in the
space advocating for the industry, making sure that the supplement industry gets a fair shake,
you know, and compared to, you know, compared to other organizations, you know,
you look at pharma, I think their budget last year was $500 million, ours is about a $3.5
million budget. So it's a big difference. Lobbying budget? No, just total, you know,
total budget. Yeah. So only $500 million for all of pharma? I think that's what their budget was,
but that's just noted. That's not all of pharma, that's their association. Oh, just their
association? Just their association. So that puts it in kind of scale, right? Right. That's two
orders of magnitude. Yeah, that's that's a big difference. So yeah. And look, they, you know,
they, the association, per se, isn't our enemy. Our challenge, our biggest challenge right now
is FDA, getting FDA to, to really look at the industry as having, having value to human health,
it does. But I think we've seen a pattern in practice here, we're trying to exclude things
from the market that they don't necessarily see it that way. Who is in charge of the FDA?
Well, right now, the commissioner is a guy named Robert Califf. Robert Califf. Yeah,
he's been there before. And so he, you know, I think he has his views on, on the industry.
And have you ever, have you ever talked to him about this? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think his
views. How does that conversation go? It's, you know, there's always got to be the pleasantries,
right? You've got to, you know, everyone's, everyone's got to, all warriors in DC have a
code, right? But at the same time, you know, you've got to, you've got to, how you doing,
how the kids, all the stuff. But, but then you got to get to the heart of the matter. I think
the heart of the matter is he sees the industry as he's an MD. And I think he feels like it's
interesting because when he, this is second trip as commissioner, his first trip, he said that,
you know, the laws are adequate. This time he says that the laws are, he doesn't feel like the
laws are adequate. And it's like, well, was it feel like the laws are adequate for dietary
systems to regulate them? Because I think given his background, he thinks it should be very
pharma-like versus the system we're under. Now it's interesting in that we do have some
very pharma-like procedures. Like our adverse event reporting is the same as pharmaceuticals,
exactly the same. So if there's a post-market issue, it's the exact same reporting system
pharmaceuticals use. Isn't it fair? Or what is it? VARES is for the vaccine. VARES is only for
vaccine, right? CARES is the one for CFSAN. And then, and the vaccine one is only like, it's like,
it's like 99.9% unreported. Well, some people say that. Yeah. I mean, I, the statistics are
different, but even if there's underreporting, look at the numbers on that versus the numbers at
CFSAN for dietary supplements. I mean, the numbers are- What are the numbers there?
Very, very small. There's about mandatory adverse events. There's, I think there were
four or 5,000 last year. When I was at FDA, the biggest one we'd get was people choking on a
tablet because the tablet was too big for the throat. Wow. Which was just, you know, which is,
which happens when people get older. It's not like, you know, we had ones where people would
have their hand cut on, you know, it was a glass bottle. They dropped a glass bottle and, you know,
they report that to FDA. Now, that wasn't the product that caused the problem, but
still makes the definition. But that's the point is the systems, you know, the systems, I think,
they're more than adequate given the safety record and given the wide usage pattern. But I
think there's, there's this resistance to the commodity because it does on some level. I think
a lot of doctors feel like it takes power out of their hands versus seeing how they can work with
it in a, in a creative way. It's just hard for me to see any sort of good in pharmaceutical
industry. Well, look, I mean, we all need, look, we do need drugs. We do, I'm not going to say,
I mean, we do, there is a, we need new drugs. We need new antibiotics. We need, we need those
things like, you know, but they need to be more like a post office than they need to be like a
giant fucking monopoly. You know what I mean? I mean, look, there's a lot of different opinions
on there. I think the bigger thing is with all of FDA. Like, I mean, I don't mean it like,
socialism. I mean, what I mean is like, it needs to be like, there needs to be some sort of barricade
between the FDA and these companies. I think what needs to happen is there's got to be
checks and balances. That's the key thing is the checks and there's got to be oversight.
You can't have, you've got to have someone who's willing to come to the table and talk in a reasonable
manner. And it's not just like, Hey, this is the most important thing at the agency. So it needs
to be the most, just because it's the important thing for FDA doesn't mean it's the most important
thing for yours in my life or 300 million Americans lives. And so I think that that's,
I think the agency really needs to be held accountable and reminded of there's a public
they serve and how to serve that the best. And if that's not their interest, okay, fine. Like
other job, but there's got to be that accountability. And I think you haven't seen,
you haven't really seen the agency, the accountability, especially in the food
center where dietary sums are resided for some time. So we'll see what happens.
Well, Dr. Fabricant, thank you so much for coming on here and sharing this information.
I really appreciate it. Again, it's npanational.org. I'll link it below. Is there any other
websites people can go to to follow what you're doing or check anything out?
That's the big one. Thank you so much, Daniel. This was great. And hopefully we'll do this again.
Cool. I appreciate it very much. Goodbye, everybody.
