Hello, world. On this episode of the Concrete Podcast, I got the opportunity to interview
a man by the name of Sean Atwood. Sean is an author and activist based in the UK who
is banned from America for life. In his early 20s, Sean was a stock market millionaire who
had a side hustle selling ecstasy. Before he knew it, he was importing and distributing
so much that he was in direct competition with the Gambino crime family. Until May 16,
2002, when a SWAT team raided his house, and before he knew it, he was facing a 200-year
sentence. Sean has since written over a dozen books. He's been featured on an episode of
Locked Up Abroad, and he publishes content to his YouTube channel, which is linked below.
I was floored by not only Sean's personal journey, but his extensive knowledge of the
corruption and politics of the war on drugs, the US prison system, and towards the end of
this podcast, we dive deep into the life and death of Jeffrey Epstein. Sean reveals what his
research on the Epstein conspiracies has uncovered. Enjoy the show.
All right, are you ready? Yeah. Cool. And you're in Florida, right? Yes, I'm in Florida. I'm in
Tampa, Tampa area, Florida, like kind of the West Coast. When's the last time you were in the
United States? I got deported in December 2007. December 2007, and you've been in London,
correct, ever since? Yeah, I was in the north of the country for my first year back, but I've been
in London for about 10 years now. Okay. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. So, all right, anyways, well, thank you
for doing this. It's great to meet you and become familiar with your story. If you could, just for
the listeners out there who may not have heard of you or don't know about it, can you give me
sort of a brief backstory to who you are and where you came from? Yeah. My name is Sean Atwood,
and I come from a little chemical manufacturing town in the north of England, the industrial
part of the country. Didn't grow up with much money, got interested in the stock market as a kid,
started investing when I was 16, doubled my money right away, and I'm telling all my friends in my
little town, I'm going to go to America, make a million, fly you guys over. That was my dream.
And that's what I did. Did a business studies degree at uni, started out in the stock market,
Wolf of Wall Street style. I was grossing half a million dollars a year commission in the stock
market. I'm thinking, right, I'm in my 20s, don't want to be going in the office at six in the
morning and, you know, calling all day long. Or should I just start to make money from the party
scene? And the UK rave scene, it had such a big impression on me when I was at uni,
you know, just taking ecstasy, taking speed for my first time, dancing all night long,
hugging people, telling each other our life stories. I thought, right, when I make my money,
I'm going to transfer that scene over to the Sonoran Desert. So then I ended up throwing parties
for up to 10,000 people at a time. Now, there's not much ecstasy out there. So I also set up
ecstasy operation. It was in competition with Sammy the bull Gravano, whose guys they ended
up knocking the teeth out of my top salesperson. Fortunately, back then, I had the protection
of the New Mexico mafia, which is the most powerful mafia in Arizona at the time.
So, you know, my ego was as big as the Grand Canyon. I'm the man now. I'm living like a
character of a movie throwing parties with 10,000 people, got my bouncers running around,
people coming up to me all night long, thanking me for the pills. And, you know, so I was emotionally
immature. Drugs have put a cloud in my head. I didn't know was there scrambled my decision
making processes. I'd surrounded myself with equally insane people. And we were all just
reinforcing each other's crazy behavior. And it got really dangerous. But when you're on drugs,
the drugs has given you false courage. And it's telling you, you're cool, you're the man, you're
living like a character of a movie. But once that cloud lifted out my head, and I looked back in
the prison, I was like, Jesus, how on earth are you still alive? Sammy DeBall's son told me in
prison, you know, he'd been dispatched one night to kidnap me from a nightclub and take me out to
the desert. And the only reason those guys had missed us, an armed crew showed up at the crowbar
is because my best mate, one of my bouncers, huge guy called Wildman, he does a lot of videos on
my channel. He's a maniac. He'd got in a situation and we'd have to leave that club in a hurry.
So again, you know, the drugs was telling me this is cool, but that could have very easily ended
up with me being taken out to the desert. Wow. Now, during all of this, this ecstasy dealing and
running around, how old were you and how much money were you making at this time?
Okay, so I started the stock market when I was 16, borrowed 50 pounds off my name,
which was about 70, $80 back then and doubled it. And that was a big deal to me. When I got to
America after business studies at uni, I arrived only with my student credit cards, didn't have a
work visa. But I fully intended to conquer the world. I'm just out of uni. I've watched that
movie Wall Street Greed is Good. And that was my motto. So nothing was going to stop me. Work visa
wasn't even a consideration. I had a printing set ready. And my hand, it was mentoring me,
let's say, back then, we were ready to print a visa into my passport if necessary. So first
couple of years, it was commission only. And I'm new to telly sales. And I'm running out of money
on my student credit cards, down to living off cheese and toast and bananas, worried I'm going
to have to come home. But five years in, I'm the top guy in the office, grossing half a million a
year, got my own secretary, cold callers, I end up with enough money to retire. And that's what I
did. And I stuck that into technology shares. And they shop during the dot com bubble. And that's
I became a millionaire. So the sad thing is, I didn't even need to be getting involved in the
drugs. But it was all ego driven. I've written about Eskibar and his brother said to him when
he was worth billions, why don't we just buy our own island, kick back, we won't get arrested,
we won't get killed by rivals. And Eskibar is like, I'm running this multi billion dollar business.
I decide who the president of Colombia is. I've got tens of thousands of people working for me.
And you want me to kick back on some island, you know, in a deck chair, sipping a cocktail.
They, what my point being is addiction to the lifestyle is more powerful than addiction to
the drugs and addiction to the fast cash. You know, I was a shy access student in this country
before I went out there. I almost got beat to death by some drunks. When it was years later
in therapy, I learned to go deep inside myself and address some of the root causes of what I'd
done. And I was taking ecstasy and speed because I had social anxiety. People saw this wild and
crazy party animal once got off the drugs. I was this reserved person again. So you asked about
money, but it was more fueled by the mental addiction to being the man living in a million
dollar house on the side of a mountain, swimming pool, jacuzzi, you know, my wife. Yeah, she done
her university stuff, but she was also doing lesbian internet porn. When you're a testosterone
guy in your twenties, this is what you aspire to. But I see the error of my ways now. And I mostly
go into school and speak to kids and dissuade them from doing the crazy stuff I did. Wow. So you
were already making millions of dollars before you even entered this drug world. Yes, I bought one
shares in one company, a stock. It was called Pacific Satellite Nonsantra, an Indonesian
telecom company. And I bought them around $5 a share in the late 1990s. And during the peak of
the dot com bubble, that one alone hit 50. And I had multiple positions like that in satellite and
tech and telecoms. Wow. I'd wake up to my computer on and I'd be up some days like 100 grand.
Yeah. That's unbelievable. And this was all during the dot com bubble, like you said.
During the dot com bubble, yeah. So once you got into dealing ecstasy and making lots more money
dealing ecstasy, you said you were getting it from Holland. Is that correct? Okay. So in the beginning,
I was just throwing house parties and showing off and buying drugs and giving it away for free.
And that was when I was still working as a stockbroker. My best friend from childhood,
Wildman came over and his place where he stayed just became a permanent party house.
And it's through him I met a lot of the characters that became my business partners later on
from various mafias. And we realized we could only get 100 pills from the local dealers. And I'm
twigging on now. I'm thinking, all right, do I want to keep working in the stock market these
long hours? Or should I apply my business to these knowledge to running an ecstasy importation
business? In the beginning, I had to go to LA, found out the local dealers were getting them out of
LA. First time I went out there by 1000 pills, whatever it was, I took Wildman, I took two
crews, we had two cars. And we're parked on the street in some area of Hollywood. And we're
waiting for this guy. He's not even home. So I'm thinking, you know, is this a setup? The police
watching his house? This guy, am I going to go into money and he's going to rob me? I would in
the house on my own when we saw him arrive. And he was like a surfer gangster, dude. And he had these
characters with him like out of point break that movie. Yeah. So I go in and I'm shitting myself
basically. I've never done anything at this level before. This is quite heavy for me at this point
in my life. I tell him I've got the money, where's the pills? He goes, all right, I'll go and get
them. I'm thinking he's going to go back in the room, come out with a gun, just take my money
off me. It could have been done as easy as that. But he comes out with the biggest bag of pills I've
ever seen in my life. And I said, do you mind if I try one first? Because I knew the taste of ecstasy
says, do you want a drink? I said, no, I'm just going to chew it. Because I know what a good ecstasy
tastes like, chewed it, it tasted good. We did the deal. I'm just dancing in my car all the way back
to Arizona. And those pills through Wildman's apartment in Tempe, Arizona, all those pills went
within a weekend. Then I've realized, okay, ecstasy is a scarce commodity in Arizona. It's going for
$25, $30 in the clubs right now. This is definitely something I can make money off and have fun.
But because of that decision, I lost absolutely everything. So I built up an organization from
the over 100 people who rested with me, but I had about over 200 working for me at the peak of it.
And the LA guys could get up to 5,000 pills at a time. It just wasn't cut anymore because demand
was so high. I've got this vertically integrated operation now whereby I'm throwing raves, I've
got a rave clothing music store, got all this money laundering stuff going on. And so I couldn't
leave the country because I was an illegal alien. I got married three times, but never,
they never lasted long enough for me to get my green card. So I had to send people out to Holland
with testing kits from a website called DanceSafe. So a good ecstasy pill, usually like a beige
press should be 125 milligrams of MD main clay. And when you test it in this kit, it changes this
thing to like a purple blue color. So I was also worried if I'm bringing bulk pills back to the
States, if there's some kind of toxic substance in them, people could potentially die. So nobody
ever died off the pills that we brought in. We would have known right away because we had the
scene locked down for years until Sammy DeBull moved in. And I had a reputation for bringing in
good quality pills. Now at the peak of it, the smugglers are bringing in like 30, 40,000 pills
at a time. One woman smuggler, she was stopped in Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport, and they were in
vitamin containers, jars in a luggage. They took her in a room, emptied the luggage out,
searched through it, put the pills on the table, he said, So what are they? She said vitamins.
And they were like, cool, put them back in the luggage and told her to have a nice day.
So after that, after that, I consulted a lawyer and the lawyer said, stop bringing them in
to America, bring them in through Mexico. So I invested in a beachfront condo in
Puerto Penaresco, Rocky Point, where the students from Arizona and California,
they go down there and they party. So there's a lot of people coming and going during certain
times of the year to bring loads over the border, the Arizona border. And my smugglers would fly
from Hermosillo Airport over to Mexico City. They'd get Air France over to Paris,
and then they'd jump on a train, you know, over to Holland. So jumping on a plane from Holland
back to the States, you're going to get busted very easily doing that. And this was before 9-11,
so nobody please try this now. You know, you could, when you were on your actual flight back to
Mexico, you could have people literally sometimes had the pills just in pillowcases in the luggage.
If you wanted to be more secure, you could have them screwed into computer towers and bring
computer towers back instead. And then once they got to Hermosillo, the pills would be transferred
when they were smuggled back down to Rocky Point over to other people in case the original
smugglers had been detected in any way. And the secondary group of people would be down there in
like nice SUVs with ASU, University of Arizona, Arizona State University stickers on them,
diving tanks, tourist, brick-a-brack. And, you know, when you got to the border,
and I was, like I said, I was a legal alien, but I was confident enough to just go down to Mexico
then because they didn't ask you for ID. They just asked if you were a US citizen. And if you're white,
then you just get through basically. So that's what happened. I smuggled numerous people in from
England who had been deported while man deported free time. So being a minister of society,
I just had people smuggling him back in through Mexico. So it was quite easy for us to cross the
border and nobody ever got busted bringing pills across the Arizona border in from Mexico.
Wow. Now, how, how did you get involved with the, is it called the New Mexican Mafia?
So how did you get involved with the New Mexican Mafia? And for those who don't know,
what is the New Mexican Mafia? Okay. There's a movie called American Me, American Me,
about La Eme. So these are gangs that come out of the prison system. And,
you know, you've heard of the Aryan Brotherhood, that came out of the California prison system.
A lot of these gangs originate in the California prison system, and it spreads throughout the
country. Okay. So, you know, there's a California La Eme, and then they branched out and there was
Arizona La Eme. And these are Chicanos, Mexican Americans, not like the original Mexican Mafia,
like the cartels out of Mexico. And some people do confuse that. Okay. Now, now I mentioned that
Wild Man was opening the door to a lot of relationships with gangsters because he's just
so loud and wherever he goes, he attracts this eclectic group of people. In these apartments,
he's got like transvestite Native Americans in one corner, Russian Mafia over here,
Chicano gang members over here, gang bangers over here, street prostitutes. It's just this
eclectic mix of people, everyone's on ecstasy, and everyone's getting along and telling each
other the life stories and shits. It's crazy. So anyway, we were at an apartment party in a complex
in Tempe called Rancho Murrieta. This was a huge complex. So we had multiple apartments in there
where we could party at, where we could store ecstasy, where we could do deals out of, etc.
And we were in one of those apartments, and everyone was just chilling out, people smoking weed,
listening to rave music, people on ecstasy, having a good time. I'm there to supply the ecstasy,
and this Mexican American guy comes in, and he's supplying the weed and the coke.
And because we're the suppliers, we hit it off and we start talking. So a policeman walks in,
a Tempe policeman, and he goes, I could smell weed from outside, nobody move. And the guy I'm
speaking to, just pulls out a gum, points it at the cop, goes, the only one who's not leaving is
you motherfucker. Everybody run. So we all run off into the night. Now, I've never seen anything this
heavy before. So I'm crapping myself. I go to one of the nearest apartments where we've got
people in there selling pills for us. And we're hearing the sirens, we're hearing the helicopter
come in, and we're all like, shit, what we're going to do? Should we flush our pills or what?
We're going to get busted. But there was also like so many people at that apartment party,
we were hoping that the cop kind of wouldn't recognize us, maybe if we got rounded up. So while
we're debating whether to flush our stuff, all of a sudden, French window bang bang bang bang bang
Is it the cops or what? Oh, shit. So we look through the window. And it's the Mexican American guy.
And he's like, let me in, let me in. So he, he schooled us right away. He said, look, turn the
lights off, turn the TV off. You don't need to flush your drugs. They're not going to get in.
They don't have a warrant. They can't get a warrant that quick. There's too many apartments.
They knock on the door, just don't answer it. Yeah, we were all like thinking he's full of
shit. They're probably going to just knock the door down any second. But it did pass. It did
pass. They came and knocked and they went on and knocked next door and they went on no way.
So we have a tense situation in this place. We're laying low. And at the end of the night,
he says, look, because you and your friends protected me, me and my brothers have got your back.
And I had no idea what that meant. So few months later, he says, one of my brothers wants to meet
you. I go over to the street. There's all these low rider showcase cars on the road.
Go to the door. His brother answers the door. He's got no hurt. And he's just looking at me,
scrunching his face. You know, it was just, it was just pale, skinny English guy. All of a sudden,
I imagine that's what he's thinking. I got talking. And then he starts buzzing off my accent. He's
like, damn, you talk funny. I guess you are from England. Come in and meet my homies.
They got the biggest TV I've ever seen in my life. They got a little TV showing that all the
comings and goings on the street outside. In case the cops are coming, they're going to know in
advance. And then I did a double tape because on top of the TV, I'm like, all right, I've seen one
of them before. Hold on a minute. Yeah, it was in a Rambo movie. They got a rocket propel grenade
launcher on top of the TV. Yeah. So I knew, I knew they were lethal people. I didn't fully understand
that they were the new Mexican mafia until it was years later when they were on the news. And
I go over to the brother's house. I'm dropping the Mexican American guy off and the whole neighborhood
is blacked out. And then the police are out with light ones guiding the traffic. And
they're all being brought out by the feds in a SWAT team. It was news headlines that night. New
Mexican mafia, most powerful mafia in Arizona at the time, killed witnesses trying to kill police,
trying to kill the head of the Department of Corrections. And I would have got caught in
that raid basically if I've been there a little bit earlier. So yeah, that's how I knew they were
the guys who had my back. Wow. That's, that's pretty incredible, the fact that you were mixed
up with those guys. And at what point, where were you when you saw all this going down,
where you had you already been locked up at that point? Or were you, where were you at that point?
I started getting the XC out of LA in the 1990s, around 96, 97. By 98, 99, the people are bringing
the XCO from Holland. Sammy the ball, he got SWAT team raided and arrested a year or two before
me. I got arrested on May 16, 2002. Can you explain to me what it was like
the day you finally got busted? I'd met a woman fall in love and she taught me out of the
importation. And I thought I'd got away with it. I was naive to the statute of limitations
whereby the cops don't need to catch your drugs. All it takes is someone from your past within a
seven year period to tell them they've done a transaction with you. So 10 witness statements
were given to the police. I've enrolled in college. I'm studying Spanish. I'm trading
the stock market online. Wake up early for the stock market open. And all of a sudden
man, man, man, man, man, man on the door. 10 people, please, we got a warrant. So I jump up,
look out the people, it's blacked out. I'm wondering, all right, are these people pretending
to be the police, found out where I live, just trying to rob me or are they really the cops?
So I run to the front window, peep out, and the whole building is surrounded. Police marksmen,
police vehicles, more cops come stomping up the stairs. Girlfriends in the bedroom, I go through,
we're like, all right, we better let them in. So we get halfway through the living room, then just
door just flies off the hinges, hands above your heads, get on the ground now, don't move.
So there was a detective that I've called Detective Reed in my book, Party Time,
and he just hoists me up by the cuffs. And he's like, English on, you're a big name from the rave
scene. I know this raid is going to justify the charges, you know, we've been after you for years,
basically gotcha, you know. So I'm still in this naive state of mind thinking, all right, yeah,
raid my house, here's the combo for the safe. There isn't any drugs in here, thinking they find no
drugs, they've got to release me. But once we got to the, after we went through the 10p jail
process, we went over to the county jail, to Sheriff Joe Uphill's notorious jail system,
and the intake was called a horseshoe, a horseshoe formation of cells that you go through in there
for days, subterranean, you don't know if it's day or night, other than the heat rising and falling
against the walls. During the going through the horseshoe, you get your paperwork, so you go to
a little counter, there's a woman behind it, and she gave me my charges, and she gave me my bail
bond. And that was $750,000 cash only on one charge alone, which was conspiracy, which I didn't
understand at the time. How old were you? I think I was about 32, 33. Jesus, okay. Yeah.
So in the horseshoe, me and my co-defendants are all nonplussed about what they're actually gonna
charges for and what evidence they've got. You see a judge, and you plead your case,
and he was having none of it with us. And then at the end of the horseshoe, you get your classification,
and they send you to a cell in a county jail. So most of the co-defendants were assigned to
minimum security. And in the beginning, me and Wildman were assigned to medium security.
So there's quite a few ended up in medium security. But I was housed separately from them
because of the nature of the case. They didn't want me being around my co-defendants, influencing
them, them and stuff like that. So by the time I get to Towers Jail, I know nobody in there. And
the Uriam Brotherhood skinhead guys are just running wild. And they come up to me right away,
and they're like, Hey, we want a word with you getting that cell over there. You can't say no
to these guys, they're just going to smash your head into the wall. So going to cell, they close
the door behind me, biggest one gets in my face. What are your charges? What are your charges?
Charges on a printout from the jail. It's all legal terminology. Like I said, I'm new to this game,
and I don't understand what it means. So I give the crappiest answer in the world. I don't know
what my charges mean. They did not like that one bit. Now they come against the wall like,
What do you mean you don't know what your charges mean? Are you a chomo? Are you a chomo?
I don't even know what chomo is. So in the end, because National Geographic did a documentary
about my story, unlocked them abroad, Raven, Arizona. But what they didn't show us in the
end in that scene, I pulled out my charge sheet. They want to see your paperwork.
They saw us in for drugs. That's acceptable. Nearly everyone is in drug in prison. It's drug
related. They saw my bail bond was $750,000 cash only. They love that. They were like,
God damn, who'd you kill? You guys, the mafia or what? And I'm like, no, just raves, ecstasy, blah,
blah, blah. You know, you shouldn't really talk about your case. When you go into jail,
I give that out on prison survival advice videos now, but I had no clue on day one.
And I was fearing for my life that these guys were going to attack me.
At what point was the roaches? When was the roaches and the sweaty and the skin like falling off,
like because it was so soggy? All right, I spent an extremely long time fighting my case.
I got the lawyer, the New Mexico Mafia guys recommended to me. And because I wasn't cooperating
because I wouldn't sign a plea bargain, the prosecutor pulled out every dirty trick in the book,
including criminalizing my girlfriend so she couldn't visit me. So as it's going along,
I'm also in court when we go court, all my co-defendants, I get to meet them. It's a
me and wild man. You know, we're like, all right, we've got a united front now. My lawyer is the
lead lawyer. Nobody needs to cooperate. Don't sign this thing called exhibit A. They were giving
everyone saying you work for Sean Atwood in the Atwood enterprise. And it was just really pissing
the prosecutor off because in Sammy the Bulls case, I think 57 people were arrested with him.
And they all cooperated quite quickly. Now, I'd built like a tight crime family kind of thing,
not a mafia crime family, a rave crime family, though, we're talking cuddle puddles and vixen
halers, not Joe Pesci style, you know, killing people in the boots of cars like that.
But we were all a very tight knit family of misfits that had come together in this community.
So only four people cooperated in my entire case, which was phenomenal. Wow. So the prosecutor was
frantic, my lawyer saying they've got a flimsy case. They missed the boat. They don't have any
drug evidence against you. It's just the testimony of these people. Uncle speaks on my behalf. He's
ex-cop thinking, wow, this is going great. Prosecutor, she sabotages the hearing. The judge doubles
my bond to $1.5 million cash only. Now, when your bond goes over a mill, you're automatically
reclassified from medium security over to maximum security, which was mostly murderers. And I ended
up in a cellmate with a crystal meth chemist. So go over to max two in the morning. I've been in like
prison transportation all day, sitting and holding cells and whatnot, pretty tired.
I get to this cell in the Madison Street jail, walking. It's a two man cell and I see my cellmate
asleep on the top bunk at the back. I'm thinking, that's a bit weird. Wonder why he's not on the
bottom bunk? Because where I come from, people fight over the bottom bunk. So I was thinking
something's not quite right. Walking a little bit more. Something drops off the ceiling and bounces
off my shoulder. I'm like, what was that? And I'm looking around at the walls and the ceiling.
I can see this strange movement, like a swirl effect. I think my eyes are playing tricks. I'm
tripping. So I put my face right up to the wall to see what was going on. And it was absolutely
covered in American cockroaches, about the size of an almond nut. And they were just coming out of
holes in the wall. The bunk where I was supposed to sleep at was like these brackets attached to
the wall. They were just pouring out inches away from the bunk. And I'm thinking, you know,
I've got used to the violence by now, but how am I going to deal with this? How am I going to get
to sleep? So I'm noticing my cellmate, he's got like this cocoon around him, this white sheet,
and a breathing hole. So he looks like the mummy. So I got on the bunk, wrapped myself up in the sheet.
But this is the Sonoran Desert. It's almost like 120, 130 degrees on your scale, almost 50 degrees
on our scale. And if you wrap yourself up in a sheet, it traps that hot air to your body.
And you've already got all these bleeding and itching skin infections and bed sores,
because there's hardly any air coming into the cell. It's like a swamp cooler. But the only
time it worked was when the County Health Inspector walked through the building. So
you're so itchy, and your skin so soggy, though, from sweating, scratch yourself, clumps of your own
skin, comes off under your nails. So you compressed in this, this sheet around you and all the sweats
just driving you insane. And in the end, you're like, ah, you just throw this sheet off,
just let them crawl on you. Now, fortunately, they don't bite. They start out tickling your feet,
your limbs. So this day, if anyone tickles my hands, I flinch, because I woke up some nights
and tickling my hands, get on your face, mouth, nose. But the favorite place of all is going in
your ears to eat your earwax. It's like honey to them. I mean, I would rip a piece of towel and
make a little cloth to wash my face. And sometimes I dig in my ears and get the earwax out and I put
it somewhere to dry. And the cockroaches would get on the flannel and they'd be like pulsing
on the earwax, just sucking the earwax up. So that was the special treat. Now, this was
constant. Eight at night was locked down. All the prisoners go back to the cells.
Guards locked the doors. You shut in the 10 lights out. Just before the lights go out,
the cockroaches line up in the cracks in the wall. Doing this movement with that antennae
sticking out like an army waiting to invade. Then as soon as the lights go out, that's it.
They just flood the room. So over time, you know, you've got all these fungal infections on your
skin. And so over time, you just accept that they're going to crawl on you. I woke up, you know,
constantly with them tickling me, going on my face on my mouth. And you kind of,
in the end, you're rebelling against it and you go in days and days without sleep. And they had
to put me on some medication. But you learn to be at peace with your cellmates, whether they are
humans or insects in the long run. Otherwise, you're going to do yourself in psychologically.
So I learned all of the characteristics. If you start like slapping a sandal down on one,
it releases a chemical smell and these warrior ones come running under your cell door.
If they managed to lay the eggs, which are in a piece of a worm, it looks like a piece of a worm,
and they'll attach that under your bunk or they'll attach that to one of your books.
If you don't notice it, and that thing bursts open and all those little ones come out,
they're all over the place as well. Some prisoners were doing cockroach races, gambling on the winner.
If you try and drown them, they just pretend that they're drowned.
They pull, they get into this position, but they're actually holding oxygen to themselves.
They're just crafty little bastards. I saw white ones look like albino ones.
But yeah, I mean, I just watch them in the end and just laugh at them. And I would cement
the toothpaste, cement all the cracks in the walls. I remember one time I submitted my whole cell
and I was so proud of myself. The smell, smell minty fresh. They had this Sheriff Joel Pyle gave
us this toothpaste called a mirror fresh. And years later, it was, I think he was buying it from
China or something. Years later, there was like, it was learned there was like anti-freeze in it
and all this kind of shit. Oh my God. Yeah. So that night that I sealed the whole cell out,
and I was at peace. The guards come roll up at work. We're moving you to another cell. I didn't
have any, I didn't have any toothpaste left. And that cell was just even worse with the cockroaches
from the cell that had left. You know, I tried to meditate at night in my black and white striped
trousers pants. I took them into my pink shorts, sit on some books, get in the position.
And I've got my trousers tucked into my socks so that they can't, you know, start crawling up my
legs. I'm just just a few inches away from the wall. And they're all over the wall behind me.
But when you're asleep, when you're trying to sleep on that bunk, the bunk is like inches away
from the wall. So they're just there right in front of your face all night long.
So I was in that maximum security facility for another year after my first year. Spent
my whole second year and two months, a year and two months in the maximum security Madison
street jail, which was, you know, completely cockroach infested. So I had to learn to harmonize
with the insects. And this was in Arizona still? Oh yeah. All my time was done in Arizona. Yeah.
I was, it was a state, it was a state offense. The feds dropped it.
Now you talk a lot about a guy named two Tonys. Yeah.
Is that where you met him? No, I met him in the prison, in the prison system.
So jail is where you are on remand, which means in America that you're unsentenced.
So it's very transitory environment. All the new arrestees are coming in and out. People have been
beat up by the cops in gunfights. People are high. People are drunk. And it's just beddling.
And they've got these cells that are supposed to hold one person, but they go up to four people
in each cell. So all the buildings are like three to four times the amount of people that
should be in them. So it's just mayhem. And then like I said in the previous videos,
the area in Brotherhood Prison Gang decides who lives and dies in the white race.
All the gangs just running the drugs through the jail. That's how they make the cash.
That guy, two Tonys, how did you end up meeting him and what kind of effect did he have on your
stay or your life afterwards? Okay, so when I had finished my own sentence period,
and I got sentenced to nine and a half years, because I hadn't cooperated with the prosecutor,
she'd done a number of tricks on me throughout my remand, like stopping my girlfriend for visiting
me. But a final farewell, while she accidentally put my nine and a half year sentence down as 34 years.
So I was fast-tracked to Supermax then, for about three or four months where I wasn't supposed to
be until they fixed that. After that, I got sentenced to medium security, hoping that they
would be softer than, you know, Supermax and these other places that come from Max in the jail.
But I ended up in a cell with a serial home invader torturer. This guy was breaking people's
houses, tying them up with duct tape and taking hammers to their kneecaps. And his welcome statement
to me, I've got a padlock in the sock, could smash your brains in while you sleep, can kill you in
every one. So he didn't like me from the get go. He was an old corn. He looked at me as a fresh fish.
He just was running a tattoo shop, a legal tattoo shop out the cell and just, you know,
doing the heroin all day. And I'm in there, you know, I've got an education, a bit of a nerdy guy,
so he didn't like that at all. So he got his mate, who was a huge guy, to attack me when my parents
have flown 5,000 miles to visit me for Christmas. Prisons like high school mentality with deadly
consequences. The two things prisoners look forward to the most are visits and mail. So
he knew by spoiling that visit, you know, that would be devastating for me. So I'm on the way
to the visit. Big guy just chicken shit moves, sneaks up behind me, bam, bam, starts kidney
punching. All the prisoners stop seeing my reaction because gang rule is you must hit back
or else you're a punk. Everyone's going to prey on you. If you don't hit back, bad consequences
with the prisoners. But if you do hit back in the guards, see it, then you're arrested,
sent to prison within the prison lockdown, lose all your privileges, including your visits,
and they can add more time onto your sentence. If you don't hit back, you become a prison punk,
you're going to spend the rest of your time inside cleaning people's toilets,
performing sexual services, and getting rented out as a prison prostitute. So what are you doing
that situation? You got to throw the kicks and punches. This guy was so big and strong, it was
like hitting a big bag of cement. It didn't end up well for me. He knocked me down, smashed me up,
and I ended up going to the visit all injured. Now, I didn't manage to get moved out of that cell.
And my new cellmate Long Island, he'd come from a prison,
where his neighbor had said, if you come into contact with an English guy, English Sean,
he's a good dude, I did business with him on the streets. This is a guy called gangster Dan from
Philadelphia. He had like his thumb missing and shit. So Long Island ends up my cellmate,
and the chances are that, I mean, there's 60,000 people in the prison system at that point in
time, prisons all over Arizona as they've expanded with the private prisons. So as much as people
came out the blue to harm me, people came out the blue to help me. Now Long Island, he caught wind
of the beef I'd had with my previous cellmate, he was still sweating me a bit, throwing batteries
at me and shit. And so he decided to introduce me to someone who could protect me. And that was
to Tony's because he knew that if I clicked up with him, I might, you know, it would help me on the
yard. So he didn't tell me that he said, look, I want you to have a game of chess with my friend,
two Tonys. All right, cool. What's he in for? He's a multiple homicide murderer. He's doing 141
years. He left the dead bodies of rivals from Arizona to Alaska. He's all school Italian mafia,
never harm women or kids. So if you've only murdered rival gangsters, you're top of the
respect in the prison. Now two Tonys worked for the Bonanno crime family. On the Joe Bonanno
senior, Joe Bonanno senior was one of the longest running ever heads of the mafia council.
And yeah, he did eventually get run out of New York and ended up in Tucson, Arizona. But
yeah, he died of natural causes. So he was quite a shrewd individual. And two Tonys was taught by
Charlie bats, but Taglia, which was a Bonanno lieutenant, how to whack people and dispose of
the bodies and not get caught because Charlie bats, but Taglia had whacked people from coast to
coast and he hadn't got caught. Now, before I could stop Long Island going to get two Tonys,
because I'm like shitting it now thinking, all right, what if I beat him at chess? Maybe he's
going to not. Maybe I'll be next on his hit list. But before I could stop him, he just took off.
So I'm stood in the day room, crapping myself. But two Tonys, he's done a lot of time by now,
like 20 something years, maybe 30 something years. It comes down the stairs like Uncle Jr.
out the Sopranos. And then in a fake British accent, he put, he saw, he sees I'm nervous and
he puts me at ease. He goes, have you ever had bloody tea and crumpets with the Beatles?
Bloody bloody tea and crumpets. Yeah. So I played chess with him. I beat him quite fast.
And at the end of the game, he said, how come you beat me so fast? I said, because you kept
speaking your mind throughout the game, you wouldn't show someone your hand in a game of cards,
would you? And he slaps his head and he goes, Oh, me and my big mouth. I didn't know if he was testing
me. Long Island had told him I was a writer and I had a blog, John Gill Journal. And two Tonys
was looking for someone to write his life story. So he said, look, Sean, to stay alive on the road
of life. I've had to become a quick judge of character. I like you. I think you're an honest
guy. Would you be willing to write my life story? I said, yeah, I will be honored. Now, I wasn't
supposed to go in itself, but self visiting is prohibited. But he had people stationed outside
watching for guards. And I'm in his cell now for months on end, every single day, writing his life
story down as a book. And by the end of it, he said that he felt like I was the son that he never
had. And when we were at the fence saying goodbye, just as I was about to get released, by that time
I was in minimum school, he came to the fence and say goodbye. Both of our eyes were missing over.
We had that such a powerful bond. Now, sadly, two Tonys died in 2010 from liver cancer from his own
drug taking. So he didn't get to see the publication of his book, which is called the mafia philosopher,
two Tonys, which is available worldwide on Amazon, if anybody wants to check that out.
Wow. You also wrote a book kind of that that explains, I think we talked earlier about
how most of the people were in there for drug related crimes. Is that right?
Yeah. And you have a strong opinion on a book you wrote, or there's a book that you wrote that
kind of covers the war on drugs. I have a war on drugs series of books. Okay. The first the first
I tried to use the most gripping stories to get the message across. Right. First one was Pablo
Escobar, Beyond Narcos, then American Maid, Who Killed Barry Seal, Pablo Escobar or George H.W.
Bush. Then the Cali Cartel. And then the one that was just released for Christmas is
Clinton Bush and CIA conspiracies from the boys on the tracks of Jeffrey Epstein. All those are
available on Amazon. Wow. Now, what is your, I guess, just for the sake of time, what is your
100 mile up perspective, wide view of the war on drugs, I guess, not only in the world, but in
the US? It's the war on the poor. It's the war on people of color. It's the war on people who are
addicted to drugs. It's the war on soldiers who are coming back with PTSD. Before I got arrested,
I thought prisoners lock them up, throw away the key, the pedophiles, murderers, rapists,
because the media, all they do is report extreme crimes on one side and say how easy it is to
get playstations, gourmet food, luxuries on the other. But when I got in there at the peak of the
war on drugs, I saw the average arrest was a black kid or a Mexican kid with a bit of weed
getting like a two to five year sentence. Prison is the biggest housing of the mentally ill.
Third of them couldn't even read all right. So to fill the private prisons, they mass
incarcerated low level drug users, because the prisons got $50,000 of taxpayers money per year
per prisoner. And the dominant drug that they mass incarcerated people for was weed.
Wow. Almost a million arrests a year for weed, not dealers. Dealers are hard to catch versus
users. Weed possession. So because of this, America's got one in 100 adults in prison,
25% of the world's prison population. For adult black men, it's one in 20 something.
I just watched that movie, Just Mercy. If you want to understand what's really going on in the
prison system, I urge people to watch that movie about the racism. And the lawyers, the jail is a
conveyor belt to the prison system. They don't want you to go to trial. If I went to trial, it would
bankrupt the system. They scare the shit out of you. These prosecutors that like use car sales
people, sign here, take 10 years, I'll go to trial and get a hundred. And you people don't want to
risk it. Even innocent people like Cali, like the story of Cali. He was like, I haven't done,
I didn't steal a backpack. I ain't signed in. If anyone's watched that Netflix.
And they said, we'll let you out tomorrow. Just sign. Sign your guilt. We must be justified in
spending taxpayers money on this bullshit. Right. That's all it is. The government has a
feeding trough of taxpayers money, trillions, if not, you know, billions, trillions of dollars.
And to spend that on the prisons, they have to keep the public terrified that, you know,
serial killers are running wild. And we got to keep locking people up at all costs. And if
your kid is smoking marijuana, he's going to grab an axe and kill his granny. Right.
Yeah, but people are sick of it. People are wiser not left and right. There's all kinds
on Netflix. And there's all kinds of activism going on on the internet. What was the what was
the name of the movie that you recommended just now? Or any kind of those that are on Netflix or
any books? Okay, on Netflix, the story of Khalif. Just mercy is the movie. If you want to see,
I've written a book called on making a merger about the 10 ways prosecution detectives framed
Stephen Avery and Brendan Dassey for making a murder because being on on uncensored 26 months,
I saw all the tricks to prosecute as Paul on people to just to get to set them up,
create emotional reactions, procure false witnesses, pay expert witnesses to lie. My lawyer
got Ray Cron, the snaggle tooth killer off death row. State of Arizona paid $50,000 to make an
expert witness say his teeth match the teeth on the bite mark of a deceased person when they
knew it didn't. And the DNA didn't match as they suppressed it. And they found him guilty because
they gave him $5,000 to defend himself. The US justice system is corrupt to the court. It's
been taken over by vested interests. There's a saying in prison, you know, a jury would indict
a ham sandwich, because the state has got all the best most money in the world to put on the best
theater show, give someone $5,000 to defend themselves. They can't put on a theater show and
courts just theater. Do you see any possibility of this changing in the future, whether it be near
or far? And if so, how do you see that changing? I know there's countries, other countries like
Portugal that have figured out ways to kind of curb this problem.
What is a politician, someone who just wants to get votes, whatever way the wind is blowing?
So look at the Clintons. They locked up more nonviolent drug offenders, including a record
amount of women for doing the exact same offenses that Bill Clinton was doing. I mean,
Bill Clinton, his brother Roger got arrested in a drug deal. He said he was buying some of it for
Bill because he's got a nose like a vacuum cleaner. Yet these hypocritical bastards lock
up hundreds of thousands of people criminalizing young people, ruining their lives. Half of my
friends in prison was veteran soldiers come back from wars that they've been duped into by Bush
and Clinton. And then they don't get any help. They get PTSD and they end up on street drugs.
But when Hillary was up for the last election, she was spouting off about mass incarceration
and how terrible it was for the black people and the women. So when you've got evil psychopaths
in power, and I believe it's only the psychopaths that can rise to the top of politics,
right? They're the biggest crooks in the world. The people have got to put the pressure because
the skirt of the votes and it's the people voting at the state level that has decriminalized and
legalized weed and is causing reversal worldwide because it was America that introduced all these
laws to the entire world. The earliest cannabis laws were pharmaceutical societies in California.
They wanted illegal because they didn't want people growing free medicine in their own backyards.
Then at the federal level, Harry Anslinger came in. He was working for Andrew Mellon
on all these other interests, fledgling, petrochemicals, pharma, plastics and he demonized it and said,
you know, black man on marijuana will want to rape every white woman in sight.
Went to the United Nations and said to the entire world, if you don't sign on for America's drug
laws, America's not going to trade with you. So that's why the whole world has got all this
violence right now. Everything from knife crime in London to all these people dying in Mexico.
That is to do with drugs being illegal and criminals competing for that black market profit
because by making drugs illegal, they made worthless plants more valuable than gold.
Weed was called weed because it grew at the sides of roads. Pablo Escobar could get
coca paste for $60 a kilo and because of drug laws, he could sell it for $60,000 a kilo on
the streets of America when he was getting started in the 70s. So drug laws have created
the biggest profit opportunity in the history of the world for the cartels and the politicians
know this because they saw the same thing happen with alcohol prohibition, right? Al Capone's running
around with his machine guns. People are getting slaughtered. People are getting corrupted,
but they've not stopped it with drugs because they've learned to profit from it.
The contracts are in the tens of billions a year for the private prisons and that's just one
entity, parasitical entity. There are hundreds of them, everything from razor wire to telephone
services, three strikes law in California, three crimes and you're serving life. They had people
doing life for stealing pizzas and chocolate chip cookies 25 years times $50,000, $1.25 million
for a $10 pizza. So the California taxpayers were like, why are we doing this? This doesn't
make sense. They tried to get it reversed and when they tried to get it reversed, the wall of money
rose up and stopped it and the two principal sources were the prison guards union of California,
which had paid out the governor off, I think it was like a million to get three strikes introduced
in the first place and one of the founders of Broadcom, exclusive provider of telephone services
to the California state prison system. Wow. That is a heap that you just dropped.
The US justice system is one of the biggest employers in the world. If they legalized drugs,
it would whack the US economy because all those courts would be empty, all those jail cells would
be empty, all those people in those bumpkin towns who are working as prison guards would be
unemployed again. It would slam the economy so hard, these vested interests just keep it going.
I mean, I'm sure you keep up with it, but as far as the next presidential election in the US,
who do you like? If you were living in the US and you were a US citizen,
who do you like that that's running so far? I view all people at the top of politics as absolute
psychopaths. I'm an observer of politics. I don't participate. I've never voted. I am interested
in the different characters that arise to the top and I have extensively researched the Bush
crime family and the Clinton crime families. That's how I came to these conclusions and
came to write this war on drugs series of books. I've not researched Trump that much, but we're
seeing a rise of populism worldwide. In the UK here, the people voted for Brexit. That was part
of that. I do talks across the country. I go in these small towns and I hear the people who are
pro-Brexit and it's crazy because the Conservative Party here got that vote and they typically
don't because they're typically what the wealthy people vote for. Because a lot of working-class
people were pro-Brexit, they voted for the Conservative Party. The Conservative Party has
learned how to harness the votes of the poor people, but it's that rise of populism. If you
can write that, if you can attach onto that right now, you will win the election because that's
happening worldwide. I read over a thousand books in prison in just under six years, a lot of history,
philosophy, psychology. If you go back to the 1900s, exactly the same thing happened that it was a
precursor for the world wars. Also related to this, you have become an expert in the life of
Jeffrey Epstein and the crimes of Jeffrey Epstein. You've released on your channel,
I believe it's over 100 videos related to Jeffrey Epstein. How did you get so
fascinated by the story of this man and can you elaborate a little bit more about the stuff
published on him? The people who watch and subscribe to my channel and post comments
and contact me through email, social media, they completely steer what I do. Everything that's done
has been at those suggestions. I've got a prison questions playlist on the channel.
When Epstein got arrested, people just started sending me messages, what will happen to Epstein?
I did a video titled, Will Bill Clinton have Epstein murdered in prison to avoid
Lolita scandal? That was just based on all my research I've done into the Clinton crime family.
When did you release that video?
Weeks after he got arrested and weeks before he got suicided.
So when he did get suicided, my channel kind of became this go-to channel for Epstein news
and people just kept sending in more questions. Someone sent me the unredacted black book quite
quickly before it was in circulation. So I just got on the phone and just started calling people
trying to call people like Mick Jagger and all these people. It all went crazy viral.
Some of those videos got almost a million views and stuff.
Then I just started, it got to the point where I had to just do a daily Epstein video. At one point
I was doing two Epstein videos a day and there's enough now for about two books. I think I'm going
to do Who Killed Epstein Part 1 and Part 2. I noticed one of the videos that you published
I was looking at. I don't know if it was one of the most recent ones or if it was one of the
ones in the beginning, but you were talking about how Epstein was friends with Elon Musk and worked
with Tesla somehow in some capacity. Yeah, when Elon Musk tweeted that Tesla was going to get
boss out and he knew that it wasn't, but he'd been having some dealings with Epstein and Epstein was
hooked up with a Saudi Prince. So there was a pipe dream hope that that was going to happen.
And Musk absolutely should not have done that tweet because it goes against all the security
laws. As a former stockbroker, I had to do all these different exams and get my licenses and
stuff to learn all that stuff. So Tesla price shot up, but then it went right back down and Musk
got this huge fine. And he was being advised by Epstein around that time. Yep. So I guess let's go
back a little bit and talk about Epstein for people who aren't necessarily privy on all the
details of the case and all not necessarily that case, but all the details of his history
with the sex trafficking and the organizations he was involved with. Could you give me sort of
kind of like a description of our backstory of what that is? Yeah, Epstein started to go out with
Ghislaine Maxwell, who is the daughter of Robert Maxwell. And it was Robert Maxwell that
brought Epstein into the Mossad fold because Maxwell, he built this multi-billion-dollar
criminal enterprise whereby he could sit down with George Bush, he could sit down with Gorbachev,
but he was also laundering money for all of the different mafias around the world, the Russian
mafia, the cartels, the Colombians, the Japanese Yakuza. And he was feeding information to all
the different intelligence agencies. So he'd go to Russia, he had money laundering operations set
up through Bulgarian banks and Russia was in control of that through the KGB. So he sat down
with the KGB heads. Then when he came to England, MI5, MI6, we'll be asking him what's the Russian
saying, but his heart and soul was with Israel. That's where his ultimate loyalty was after himself,
of course, he was, you know, this grandiose, bombastic narcissist. Now, Robert Maxwell,
he became a liability to the intelligence agencies. I'm reading the book called The
Assassination from Maxwell right now, and they detail how the Mossad take him out and make
it look like an accident. He's off his yacht, the Lady Ghislaine, and this is off the Canary Islands,
and he's found dead in the water basically. And it comes out that he's looted hundreds of millions
from pension funds and stuff like that, and all these people have lost their money. So Robert
Maxwell brings Epstein into the fold. And once you're into that fold, we're talking Iran contra,
you know, people saying we don't know where Epstein's money came from. The money from these
elites comes from the most profitable businesses in the world, and they're all interlinked. And I
learned that because when I wrote about Barry Seal, he was a cocaine transporting pilot for the CIA,
and it was drugs come up from South America on these military planes. In his case, they were
going through Maine, Arkansas, and other drops in Arkansas. George H. W. Bush, Oliver North were
heading this scheme, and Bill Clinton's governor of Arkansas was provided in the state security.
So it's drugs in, weapons out. That's what Maxwell was heavily involved in. He was a key
broker in the Iran contra deal whereby Reagan was going to have him release the hostages,
and that was boost his popularity in exchange for legally giving Iran arms, which were financed
by drug deals. CIA is bringing the drugs in. Gambino crime families, just one of the crime
families helping them distribute it. So I believe once Epstein was introduced into that fold,
his money would have come from laundering proceeds for intelligence agencies.
It would have happened into weapons, drugs, oil, and human trafficking. What we see with Epstein
is just the tip of the iceberg. There are far bigger players than him, and he was sacrificed
so that those players wouldn't be exposed, including the Clintons, including Leslie Wexner.
So Wexner, owner of the limited, and all of a sudden the limited, the company, the limited,
Victoria's Secret, Victoria's Secret, the fashion show, the lingerie, and Epstein and Wexner were
tight, and the properties that Epstein had that were worth multi-millions, they came from Wexner,
but there's no evidence that he actually paid for any of them, and the Wexner properties
in New York had already been fitted up with all the spy cameras before Epstein even moved in.
Wexner had it all rigged up like that. So honey traps have been used for decades
by the intelligence agencies. If you can entice people into your web, people as powerful and
famous as Prince Andrew, and then you could get them in compromising situations, and Virginia
Roberts, you know, one of the bravest victims is just not let this lives completely run in with it
every single day. I'm in communication with her on Twitter. I'd urge people to go over on Twitter
and retweet her stuff and offer her support, because she's had multiple death threats.
FBI have even said that they're credible. She said that Prince Andrew not only had sex with her
twice individually, but also on a third occasion on the Pido Island had engaged in an orgy with her,
and teenagers that were underage who Epstein had procured from East Europe, and Epstein was joking
saying, you know, they can't even barely speak English. These are the easiest girls to get.
And one of the guys he was getting them through was Jean-Luc Brunel, who also ran a modeling agency
out of France, which launched some very famous models. And Epstein bragged that he slept with
over a thousand of Jean-Luc Brunel's girls because of his connections to the government.
He was fast tracking them into the country. He could get them visas just like that.
Jean-Luc Brunel gave him 12-year-old triplets for his birthday present, and Epstein was
boasting to Virginia about how good the oral sex was with these 12-year-old girls. So, you know,
a complete depraved entity. I started writing about the war on drugs, and it led to the Clintons and
the Bush crime families, and then onto Epstein, and it's a very, very dark place. Now, I've got a
weekly true crime podcast on my YouTube channel, and one of the most recent guests was Prince Andrew's
former Royal Protection Officer, and he was working for Prince Andrew when Galay Maxwell was
just waltzing into Buckingham Palace. She didn't have to go through the security protocol. They
didn't have to put a name in the system properly. And we saw Prince Andrew do that car crash interview
on the BBC, and he's talking so polite about a manner unbecoming and a straightforward shooting
weekend. But according to Paul Page, the ex-cop, you know, if guests of Andrews were held up,
Andrew would get on the phone, you know, say they didn't have ID or the cops are trying to do the
proper security procedures. Andrew just get on the phone, like, let that fucking person through now
before I fucking come down there. I'll fucking have you lose your job. Don't you know who I am?
So that's the kind of character he really was, but he's not the brightest bulb.
Right. Not the brightest crayon in the box?
No. I mean, Epstein and Maxwell are at the shark level, and they've got that psychopathic, deviant
level of knowledge. Andrew, I believe, was seduced into that. They wanted to get that power leverage
over him. And he found it so seductive that even after Epstein had been convicted the first time
around when he got his sweetheart deal against the wishes of the royal family, Andrew went back over
to Epstein's four day celebration from prison party where Prince Andrew was the guest of honor.
And then Andrew gets on the BBC and says he was going flying all that way just to break
up his relationship with Epstein. Well, that BBC interview was just one big lie, the whole thing.
Even the FBI have called him out. He said, I'm going to cooperate with all of the law enforcement
agencies. And now the FBI, all these people, all these lawyers, prosecutors are saying multiple
times they've contacted the Royal Buckingham Palace, the lawyers, and Andrew's not being
forthcoming at all. So the whole thing was just one big whopper, that interview. But what Paul
Page said was the Royal Court, Andrew did know that whatever he said, even if he incriminated
himself, he will never spend a day in jail because the royal family are so powerful.
It's one law for them and another law for the rest of the world. Anyone else would have been
swat team raided and sent to prison and stabbed in the belly by the Aryan brother for being a charmer.
Unbelievable, man. So where do you see this whole thing? What do you see
becoming of the entire Epstein suicide? Where do you see this ending up? Where do you see this
being, how do you see this being viewed in 10 years from now? And also, what is the current state
of the investigation if there is any sort of, if it's still an ongoing investigation? I know that
you mentioned in a video that you just recently released that there was capillaries under his
eyelids that they found that had burst. Yeah, it's the royal scandal of the century. The royal
family have tried to push it out the media here by getting all the media contacts to focus on the
Megxit situation with Harry and Meghan. And they did manage to do that. It was dominating the news
after Andrew dominated the news. But then when the FBI announced that Andrew wasn't cooperating,
it just popped right back up to news headlines here again. Yeah, so it's got all the hallmarks
of something that's not going to go away. Because if there's a murder and it's solved,
the public are satisfied. But look at Kennedy, look at Princess Di. So I think 10, 20 years from now,
people will still be talking about Epstein. When in the history of the MCC, the Metropolitan
Correctional Centre, has on the record been two guards ever fall asleep simultaneously
since it opened in 1975. It's never, ever happened. The cameras conveniently, the footage is not
available. The only people who've been arrested are the guards. It's a classic look at the pressure
that was put on his neck to cause the three fractures, the high-eyed broken and, like you said,
the capillaries in the eyes. It's obvious his cellmate was taken out. He put him in with Nicholas
Tartaglione, a cop turned gangster who murdered four people in a nightclub they were enticed to
to do a drug deal and buried him in the garden. This guy, he could have just snapped Epstein's
neck with one of his hands. He's so powerful looking. He was massive. The convict code is such
that if you're a gangster, you're putting yourself with a chomo. KOS, kill on sight.
Yeah. So I think that the suspects are Tartaglione, even though he was taken out,
could have been let back in to finish the job, quid pro quo. He's up for the death penalty.
Let's see if he gets a softer sentence. Already the boss of that jail has been awarded after
Bill Barr said this guy should be relegated to a desk job. The boss of the jails already got a
cushy job somewhere else, so he got rewarded. So total deep state operation. Maybe Tartaglione
went in with the quid pro quo. Maybe guards went in and did it. Maybe they sent some people in
from the intelligence community. Some men dressed as guards could have gone in and done it while
they took the cameras out and just the method of killing him. We talked about two Tonys when
I was writing his life story, when I was in his cell. And he was talking about all these methods
of murdering people and burying bodies. And that's all in his book. And I asked him, I said,
how would you kill me right now? Just thinking he would describe it. And in a split second,
he jumped up, grabbed an electrical cord, got behind me, wrapped it around my neck and started
to choke me out. And I, you know, I couldn't breathe and I'm starting to get a bit dizzy.
And I'm like panicking. I tapped out. I didn't let it go. Just like that. Now there were some photos,
I think 60 minutes, got access to some photos of the death scene. And there were multiple
electrical cords in the cell, pictures of all this disheveled cell. So let's say Tartaglione
goes in, a guard goes in, a hit man for the intelligence agency goes in. Just get that cord
wrapped around his neck. Bam. If two Tonys, a professional killer, felt that was the most
efficient way to do it, that could have been the murder weapon right there in those photos.
That's crazy. I didn't realize there was an electrical cord in the actual photos of the scene.
Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
Well, thank you, man. Thank you for sharing your story. I'm super grateful for you coming on here.
I mean, your stories are just absolutely riveting. Not only your personal stories,
but the stories that you've told, like of two Tonys and your knowledge of the Epstein and the
Clintons and all the corruption going on in the world on drugs is just incredible. I can't thank
you enough. And where can the people listening to this on concrete find more of your stuff online
and, you know, your links to all your social media platforms? Thanks, man. There's just tons
more content on my YouTube channel, which is just under my name. I've got the Weekly True Crime
podcast, usually two hours where I interview ex guards, ex cops, ex gangsters, experts in the
Epstein case. All my books are available worldwide on Amazon, 13 books out now. And all my socials
are under my name as well. And I'll, you know, I'll put some clips up on my channel and I really
appreciate people subscribing. It's free. And I hope your subscribers enjoy this content as well,
Danny. I appreciate you having me on. Hell yeah, man. Thank you so much. It's been a blast.
