Mr. Sean Atwood, you're finally back. We're going to do part two of your life story. The
first part was absolutely incredible jaw dropping everything. Your videos already got a million
views for part one. I think we left off where you told the story of how you're making stacking
millions of dollars in the stock market. And you had an ecstasy empire in Arizona, Tempe,
Arizona. All kinds of crazy shit was going on. You finally got busted, went to jail or
prison. And I think we left off with the story of the roaches. And you met a guy named two
Tonys. So we left off when you were in prison. I know we missed a lot of really interesting
stories and from inside prison, the people you met and then from when you actually got
out and what happened after you got out. So where, where can we start?
Well, if we didn't do the Xena transgender story, that would be the good, the best one
to start with. So Xena was a six and a half foot charismatic transgender prisoner. Looked
long, you know, kind of like skinny, but like bum coming out, you know, we're going around
like a woman on the yard. And I made friends with Xena. And what I didn't know when I made
friends with Xena was that Xena had something suffered something completely horrific. When
she first came in, I'll say she, because that's the trends, they find it disrespectful to
say. So Xena came in decades before me and she clicked up with the AP to Ari and Brotherhood.
She was working out. She was big and they had her collecting debts. Now, with these gangs,
it's blood in blood out. They use people up and they brutalize them. And in Xena's case, I asked
her what happened. She said, the first time was a gang rape. They came, they beat me until I was
unconscious, raped me while I was unconscious and shove things inside my body. I said, how'd you
know that they were raping you if you were unconscious? She said, when I went to the toilet
after I could tell by what came out. Oh, I said, what did they stick inside your body? A broomstick.
I said, well, what did you do after being raped? She said, she got moved to another yard,
but the same thing happened. They beat her up, used her as a prostitute, a punk, more gang rapes,
and she sounds like a big person, right? Yeah, she was six and a half. I've seen them.
Big guys come in prison, full of bravado, and the gangs get on them like a pack of wolves.
There's nothing they could do. When someone's outnumbered, it's not like in the movies where
Rambo just kicks ass and everyone goes down. Yeah, the gangs, they run the place, they decide who
lives and dies. So Xena said, she sat in the cell waiting for the scars to go away. She got moved,
but the same thing happened. And we were writing a blog to raise awareness of prison rape.
So I said, you know, does this happen to young people who come in? And she said, yeah, most of
the young people work and happen to anyone, big bad dudes, skinny, even the ugliest people in the
world, people who come to prison who aren't street smart and don't understand the mentality of ghetto
life, they get preyed on the most. I said, well, how did you stop it? She said that she started
fighting back. She won the fight. And she told him she didn't care if she lived or died. And that's
how she stopped it. But that's understatement. Xena was studying anatomy at the time she came
with an idea. And the next two times, the gang came to rape Xena, the first member of the gang to
put his hand on Xena. Xena plucked his eyeball out. So it was dangling from the optic nerve.
So Xena did that on two separate occasions, and was classified as extremely dangerous because
when I heard this, I thought that's not even possible. When I got out, I joined a dojo and they
teach us in karate, it's called bird beak strike. We just pull someone's eyeball out like that. So
when the eyeball comes out, it's dangling from the optic nerve. It doesn't just go back in the eye and
behave normally. The fluid cushioning the brain can leak through it and you can die. Your eye might
end up looking the wrong way. You could be blinded. So after doing that twice,
the gang left Xena alone, but they moved on to some of the other more vulnerable prisoners,
some of Xena's friends actually. One was gang raped and they held him down. And they took a
lightbulb and shoved it in his backside and made bets on who could smash it first. And that prisoner
committed suicide afterwards. Another one was gang raped. They held him down, cut his head off
with a shovel. And when the shovel was finally off, they picked the head up and they positioned it in
an area of the prison where the rival gangs would see it to make the point that they were the most
violent and ruthless out of all the gangs. And that was the early in Brotherhood prison gang.
Now another thing Xena told me was, you know, people think, you know, how can this happen? All
this man on man rape, you know, the guards would protect the prisoners, the culprits would be
brought to justice. Well, people who think that are in a dream world. This is an extremely violent
predatory society, like a warrior society, where you got two guards watching hundreds of prisoners.
Xena said, you know, you can't get anyone prosecuted. The victim is labeled a rat,
a punk and considered less than human. You can't go to the guards because then you're a snitch.
For snitches, it's KOS, kill on site by everybody. Or the guards will put you in a dungeon for months
or years and say it's for your own protection. You can do absolutely nothing other than kill the
perpetrators. And I asked, did you think about killing them? And she said, yeah, I fought about
killing them. I fought about killing myself. And I still do. And then she started crying and she
couldn't answer any more questions. Now, Xena also did something to herself. And the truck that
I met a transperson who'd fully done this thing to herself. And Xena copied this. She had a
Mosby's medical dictionary. She had no painkillers whatsoever. She wakes up one morning, just drinks
a cup of coffee, gets a felt tip pen, a marker and draws some lines on her scrotum, picks up a razor
blade, slashes her scrotum open. The testicles are on branches called the Vazdevarins. So she falls
the scrotum open. She's got the blade on the spermatic cord and grizzle that's holding this
testicle to the Vazdevarins. And she chops through it and manages to get one testicle off.
Now, the testicle must have known what was coming because it retracted inside her.
So she's now got her hands in her guts, looking for this other testicle. She says she could feel
squishy things like organs and stuff. She's rummaging around in there. And as she's rummaging
around, she's starting now to feel the red hot pain of cutting one ball off. But she's thinking,
you know, this is a one shot deal. I got to do it. So she's scrambling around in her guts,
looking for it. And where she's got it tied off to stop the blood squirting out comes undone.
So now the blood starts squirting across the cell. And she's got the red hot pain kicking in and
she's going faint and she's scrambling around in the guts looking for the other nut and it's
hiding further and further in there. And in the end, she's she's bleeding to death. She's losing
consciousness. And somebody sees that and they managed to get a helicopter to the prison just
in time to get to the hospital to save her life. Now she was put on suicide watch for over a year.
And when she got off suicide watch, she cut the other one off. So what the trans prisoners do is
they cut the testicles off to stop the testosterone and they get estrogen smuggled in.
They believe they are women trapped in men's bodies. And they feel they feel more at peace
by doing that by reversing the flow of the chemicals. Now what prison specifically was this in?
All right. So I spent my first 26 months in the Maricopa County jail system run by Sheriff Joe
Alpio. And then when I was sentenced, I got moved over to the Arizona Department of Corrections
where I served three, four, three something years. My total sentence was five and three
quarter years, almost six. So the characters I met, T bone. I can't remember we talked about
T bone. We haven't talked about T bone yet now. Okay, good. Two Tonys, Zina, Frankie, all the main
characters I started writing about on my blog, John's Joe Journal. Frankie, I did meet in the
jail, but most of them are met in the Arizona Department of Corrections. Now the jail housed
about 10,000 prisoners. And I was in about three different security levels there. And the Arizona
Department of Corrections housed about 60,000 prisoners back then. They got prisons all over
the state. So I was in various prison, started out in the super max because of games the prosecute
was playing and then ended up in a federal deportation prison, which you have to go to if you're
going to get sent back to England. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that is some of the most brutal shit I've
ever heard like brutal prison stories, violent prison stories I've ever heard. I've never heard
of anyone being decapitated in the prison or let alone castrating themselves in a prison cell.
Like that seems like the most grotesque, violent shit I've ever heard happen in a prison. Yeah,
I wasn't there when the eyeball extractions occurred. That was way before I've been arrested,
but it was a period of time in Arizona prison history where 60 minutes did the documentary
and said that Florence prison was the most dangerous square mile of real estate in the entire
United States. And that's just one of many stories that I heard about it back then whereby,
you know, it's just the big bad redneck cops and all the rapes going on and another dead prison
and nobody curse. And where were you when Zina performed this self castration? Were you in that
prison at the time? Or was this just a story she told you? No, no, I was out and she didn't tell me
all the prisoners started to write to me. Oh, this was after you had already gotten out? Yeah,
yeah, all the prisoners were writing to me, my friends. And they were like, you know, wow,
she's got balls. She's fucking hard according to any of us. No one would do that. You know,
this to do that takes such a strong mind. It's truly amazing that she even survived that. I mean,
I'm sure she was pretty close to death. When all right, it was the one in that I met. I won't say
any names. And the one that Zina did it after this, this one did it. I wasn't around when the one
did it. But I know what happened because all the prisoners told me what happened was this one
successfully cut off both balls. And then she caught her eyes the wound with a cigarette lighter.
Okay. And it got infected. So she was carried out on a stretcher. It got infected. And she was
busted. It's, you know, it's, it's a disciplinary matter. Then you violated the prison laws.
So she got in all kinds of trouble for doing what she did. Yeah, but she looked like a woman,
honestly. Guys would compete in to try and get her, you know, in bed.
And she was totally about it, right?
Um, or was she not about it? She had a tough guy who was protecting her, but then she got moved
off the yard. So I think things got too chaotic for her. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's gotta be a weird
dynamic, especially for the people running the prison when one of the prisoners and starts to
it like when they're on that line of being trans and like, Oh, they love, they enjoy sex with the
other men. That's gotta be a weird line to dance when you're in charge of that prison.
Right? I mean, they just let it go. Is that, is that a common thing?
All right. Rape is so common in prison, you have to go to a rape class to get taught how not to
get raped, which is a complete waste of time. The attitude of the authorities is we've shown them
the class that ticks our box. So what if they're raping each other? Yeah. Now in this rape class,
you watch a video and there are some predators in the day room and it shows the young prisoners
coming in. Now, if the predators are able to coax the young people who are hungry into taking food,
candy, Snickers bars, whatever, then they're in debt. So then they say, look, you've got to pay
this debt off or else we're going to stab you. Well, I've got no money. All right. Well, go in that
cell over there, do whatever he says and your debt will be cleared or else we're going to stab you
and kill you. So if you're a scared young person going in, you just got tricked into taking food
and getting into debt, what are you going to do to get out of that situation? You're going to have
to fight your way out of it. Or, you know, some of them, the more vulnerable ones just
break down and do it. And then that's it. Once they've been converted into a prison punk,
it's called getting turned out, becoming a prison punk. They are then prostituted out for the rest
of those days. And the attitude of the prisoners is if you don't man up, you deserve it because
there's a hierarchy and the bottom are the snitches, the punks, the trans, you know, that's why
Xena had a very tough boyfriend. These people get brutalized, show them what sex offenders,
snitches, punks, these are all at the bottom of the spectrum. So now the conclusion of the rape
class was to stop rape, you have to report it. If you report anything, you're a snitch. So after
we went to this rape class, a young mentally ill prisoner was gang raped on the yard, I was at,
and nobody reported a single thing. Right. Yeah. They reckon more men are getting raped in prison
than the rapes for females. In the free world. In the free world. Yeah. Now, how long did it take
you from the time you were first went in? Because, you know, obviously there was kind of like a
self discovery you had to go through for a while, right? Like you talked about it. I've
heard you talk about it before. It's like self reflection, like looking at yourself in a mirror
for a long period of time until you can finally figure out how to channel this
situation that you're in into something that's going to put you on some sort of trajectory
forward, right? Like you have to, your mindset had to go through a change at one point.
Was there a point that you can remember that you kind of like redefined your outlook on where you
were? Yeah. I was wild when I got arrested, you know, I'd quit running the criminal enterprise,
but I was still going out on the weekends of all my party friends, you know, I'd gangsteritis.
I'm a business graduate that had gangsteritis. And you still had a lot of money, right?
Well, it was all collapsing and it collapsed with the dot com bubble. I was down to six
figures from seven net worth. So I was going out with Wildman and my gangster friends on the
weekends and still still clicked up there. So I was wild when I got arrested. And if I'd got
released in that first year, I would have gone back to the lifestyle. But in the second year,
when the prosecutor said I was facing a maximum 200 year sentence. And that pushed me to the
point of suicidal insanity. I thought to myself, all right, they filed serious drug
offender status on me, which carries 25 to life. I've got 20 plus charges, each which
carry 10 plus year sentences stacked up makes 200, which the prosecutor made it clear. If I
went to trial and lost, I would get 200 for that alone as well. So I'm thinking, do I want to spend
the rest of my life in this kind of an environment, dead rats in the food, cockroaches crawling all
over us at night, guards, murdering mentally ill prisoners, just drug and gang infested mayhem,
people's heads getting smashed in every day. It's just, you know, can I just live like this for
the rest of my life? No. So I decided to kill myself after a guard at a security walk. And
before I was going to slash my wrist, I want to say goodbye to my family and friends. So I get the
pictures out of my mom, dad, girlfriend, sister. And I started to get really sad, thinking my mom's
going to get a call saying, you know, your son's just killed himself in the foreign jail. And to
be honest, I don't want anyone's pity here. I deserve to be in there. But I started to cry at
that point. And the thought put my mom through that just stopped me from killing myself. So
that pressure on my brain was working on crushing that materialistic, hedonistic,
narcissistic person out of me. And the turning point around that time came, the prisoner come
into myself, he's got a steel rod in his leg, the screws are loose, he's in agony, he's got
hepatitis C, he's got syphilis, he's got stomach cancer. And whenever he goes on the toilet, he's
in absolute agony. His stomach cancer is so advanced, he's going to die in that jail within a
couple of years. And I was thinking, holy shit, I was feeling so sorry for myself. I was going to
slash my wrist and bleed out. Listen to this guy's story, there's always somebody worse off. And my
heart opened to the pain and suffering of other people. I thought prisoners lock them up for
away the key, the serial killers, pedophiles, rapists, murderers, because that's all you see
in the news, how extreme the crimes are on one side, and how easy it is on the other. They've
all got playstations, gourmet food, luxuries, and that keeps the public hating on the prison
population. But when I went to court, and the audience of all the other prisoners in there,
when I first arrested, heard my charges and heard my bail was $750,000 bond,
they were all gasping and they were gasping because they were all low level drug users.
And people who were doing petty crimes, the finance drug addiction, and the system, they are
the fodder for the system, $50,000 a year of taxpayers money per prisoner per arrest. I saw
Black kids and Mexican kids with like a roach a week, getting like a two year sentence because
they had prior convictions. So a roach a week, two years, taxpayer, $100,000 to house that person,
it's just a money making industry. So yeah, I don't support pedophiles, rapist serial killers,
no way. They're a fraction of the prison population. I saw people in prison were society's most
vulnerable people, people with addiction issues, soldiers, more than half of my friends were soldiers,
come back from war. Yeah, PTSD, come back from wars, no help from the government just used and
abused, get on street drugs to self medicate and end up in prison. And, you know, they don't give a
shit about them. They can't they get them to do their dirty work, send them off to the Middle East,
they come back and messed up in the head. And then they end up in prison. You got 20 plus soldiers
a day right now committing suicide in your country. Right. It's absolutely ridiculous.
And still fighting and still fighting the government just to get the just to get the
VA to pay for some of them. There's guys that have Agent Orange from Vietnam that still are
fighting the government to get them to pay for their treatment and and they're losing.
Yeah, they're just used. They're just used. It's horrific. And the craziest part about that is
there's still it's amazing that there's any sense of patriotism, even within these veterans
that are fighting the country to pay for the shit they've gone through.
Because they know, you know, there's always a new generation that they can brainwash.
And that's what they rely on. They just rely on young idealistic people, pump them up with
patriotic notions and send them off as cannon fodder. Yeah. So prison is the biggest house out
of the mentally ill. When they shut down the mental hospitals after a cuckoo's nest came out,
prisons by default became the biggest house out of the mentally ill.
Like I said earlier, third of them couldn't even read or write. I started to listen to the stories.
90% were injecting heroin. Now people think, all right, filthy heroin addicts, they don't
deserve anything scum with the stealing stuff. Well, I had to break through that and listen
to the stories. And they were they were sexually molested as kids. They'd seen their parents die.
They didn't even have parents fraud just thrown away onto the streets, kicked out of their houses
where they've been abused previously. And then what are they going to do to fend for themselves?
Getting no help from anyone. They get in with the gangs, they get on the drugs and they're
taking the heroin because heroin is so strong. It puts them so far out of their minds.
They don't have to think about all the abuse and the horrors that they've suffered,
because no one's given them the tools to deal with that. So you've got human beings being
warehoused for profits in America for the private prisons and the contracts in the tens of billions
a year. And then the kickdowns to the politicians and legislators are in the tens of millions a
year in political contributions. They're paying these guys off to tighten laws to put more people
in prison so they can make more profits. That's why America's got one in 100 adults in prison
right now. It's ridiculous. That's why you've got social unrest. The police have got arrest
quotas. I heard a policeman say, I go in a black neighborhood and make my arrest. It's like shooting
fish in a barrel. They're going to make some of the arrests. They just go and arrest low-level
drug users. They're the easiest ones. But on the news, the arrest in Pablo Escobar, which is bullshit
so hard to arrest a drug trafficker, the low-hanging fruit of the low-level drug users, the street-level
people. So all this social unrest you've got going on around the world right now is a reaction
to the extreme the prison system has gone in America and the drug laws and the war on drugs.
If you're a black guy walking around your neighborhood, got some weed on you,
cop might pull you over, not just brush your weed, but it might shoot you dead.
Right. This is all functions of war on drugs. All drugs should be legalized, taken. Kids should
be educated and not incarcerated. That's my philosophy. What is the perspective from your
area of the world on what's going on? I mean, I know it's going on globally right now, but
we've gone out in the street and we've seen you've got two sides of the street. One of them are all
Trump supporters or they call themselves Back the Blue where they're supporting the police
and you have the other side of the street that's Black Lives Matter. It's 50-50
white people and black people on the Black Lives Matter and the people that are
on the other side saying we back the police, we support the blue, Trump 2020, it seems like
it's way older of a generation and it doesn't matter what the truth is about anything. It's
just they're stuck in their ideologies and it's just this primal instinct. They just want to fight.
It's so wild seeing it in real life. So anyways, I was just interested to hear the point of view
from someone like you living in your part of the world. Well, my point of view is this. I read
over a thousand books in just under six years. I become obsessed with history, philosophy, psychology
and technology advances but human nature remains the same. So throughout history, people have always
formed groups and these groups will brutalize or go to war with other groups of people, call it
religion, politics, race, anything you want. You could fix the race problem and people would find
another way to form groups to attack other people. In the jail, it was the white gang,
the black gang, the Mexican gang, the Mexican American gang and whichever group was strongest
and had the most numbers would brutalize the groups with the least numbers and that's a
microcosm of society. Yeah, it seems like it really relates back to prison, right? I mean,
that seems like a very boiled down version of what the broad spectrum is in the world.
Well, the racism and racial division that America became politically correct but it passed,
it bypassed the prison system. It's been in there for the last decade and it's not changed
and if you can keep the prisoners divided like that, you can conquer and control them
and if the elites can keep the population divided, they can conquer and control them.
So that's what I believe is self-dividing conquer. Yeah, I mean, you can clearly see
that the right wing conservatives, they signal to the white working class and the big businesses
like oil and the left signals to the brown and black working class and elite level like Silicon
Valley but it seems like if the two working classes work together, the majority of power would be
there. Yeah, there you go and you've got the police who are from the working class
policing the working class. So the working class is policing itself. How clever is that if you're
running a country? Right, right. The prisons are run on prison labor. If all the prisoners refuse
to work, the prisons would collapse because they can use prison labor as slaves. Slavery
was not abolished in America. There was a loophole in the Constitution. Slavery is abolished
except for people convicted of crimes. So not only are they using the prisoners as slave labor
force to run the prison system, all the major companies in America are using that slave labor
force as well. Everything from military equipment to road signs and all these contracts that they
do. It's just one big financial state. God. Yeah. And another thing, like I told you, we were out
in the streets documenting some stuff and doing some street interviews. A lot of people on the
back, the blue side of things are on the Trump like conservative side that were against the
Black Lives Matter people. They're all talking about the George Soros guy. Who is George Soros?
Why? He seems like some big like mystical figure.
I was a worshiper of George Soros when I was a kid.
Really? Yeah, because I started following the stock market at night at 14,
started trading when I was 16. I went down the library and I ordered all of the books
written by the stock market greats going back, you know, a century and George Soros was big time
and he'd had his books published about trading the stock market. He almost bankrupted the Bank
of England when he sold short the pound and he made billions off it. So my motto then after
watching what that movie Wall Street was greed is good. All I heard about was being a millionaire
by the time I'm 30. It's dog eat dog. I'll be fucked in the business world.
I had no moral compass. I just wanted to make money. So when you have no moral compass and
you just want to make money, you look up to people like George Soros, which is completely
reversed. You know, as you know, my activism and I fit now helping school kids. But in my 20s,
I was just a testosterone fueled financial maniac drug fueled. And I thought it was cool
that George Soros was making billions and filed the highest income ever in the history of the world
for tax purposes. I thought that was cool. I spy to that back then. Yeah. Yeah.
So who is he now? Why is everyone saying that he is? Why does everyone say that he's funding these
people like black lives matter and all this? Okay. Okay. So you've got divide and conquer
is the strategy used by the elites. And the theory is that certain families that was wealthy
and powerful people in the world, including the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, those kind of families
who control the politicians and that Soros is a front man for those families. And he does their
bidding. And theories are that he promotes things that will increase the divide and conquer factor
in the country. Okay. So they think that he's personally financing these these people on the
streets who are causing chaos. Yeah. But then it gets to the point where that it's thrown around so
much that anyone who tries to do anything, their enemies just say, well, George Soros is finding
this is financing this guy to try and undermine what they're doing. So what is the waters are
so muddied with all of this stuff? It's hard to discern what the truth is.
Yeah. It's really, it's really weird. On the subject of black lives matter. There was a guy I
met in prison called T bone. Now, yeah, I was on the yard. And this T bone black guy, almost six
and a half foot, just strides across the yard, the Sonoran desert, looking like something out
of a Conan movie. Yeah, just his biceps were bigger than my head. Yeah, because of the rules
of racial division, I never would have approached him. He was intimidating. But the prisoners
were finding out, you know, that I was writing a blog, getting pen pals, hooking people up with
pen pals and books. So T bone lingered in my doorway one night. I was just writing at my little
stool table, screwed to the wall combination. And the whole room went dark as he completely
blocked the sunlight out. Holy shit. Well, just turn around. And he just stood there with his
trousers on. Good thing they were on. And I'm thinking, Oh, my God, what does this guy want?
But I got talking to him. And he was interested in English history and military history in
particular. And we hit it off. Now, T bone, I learned was using his skills as a US Marine
to stop prison rape. His entire body was covered in scars, not tiny little scratches,
horseshoe sized scars from all the life and death prison stories he had. And also from the
action he saw as a US Marine. So he said it was the foulest thing anyone could do.
You know, he was very religious. And he believed that God had his back. Now, if you're intervening
in someone getting raped, that's considered policing the yard. So that doesn't go down well
with a lot of the prisoners either. Even though some people think rape's horrible, it's a good
thing he's doing. So you've got a kind of division going against the prison rules,
helping people being a hero. So he had to fight a lot of people. And oh boy, could he fight.
So I showed up in the library one time and the library was being used as an outpost for blowjobs.
So I showed up in the library one time and this big biker guy was getting a blowjob
off this other skinny kid, young person. And I walked in there, said he's definitely all good.
And the kid told me just to leave, get out. No, you know, it wasn't my business. So I just left.
Now, T-Bone caught wind of this. And also, the guy was spreading rumors that T-Bone was a snitch.
Now, my cellmate was present when what followed went down. I had a cellmate called Long Island.
He's the guy who hooked me up with two Tonys. So Long Island was in the cell belonging to the
Serial Home Invader Torturer guy. Right. I tell you that one in part one, the guy who threatened me
with looking this up. Yeah. Yep. So he would smash your head in. Yeah. So Long Island is in his cell.
And then there's that guy, we'll call that guy Bud, the Serial Home Invader Torturer.
There's another huge biker in there called Ken. And he's massive. And he's got his cellmate in the
cannonball. He was the guy who was forcing the young guy to give him heads in the library.
He got one, two, three white dudes in the cell. None of them as big as T-Bone or as good at fighting
as T-Bone. But Bud in particular was quite psychopathic and had his padlock in the cell.
Yeah. So T-Bone walks in, says to cannonball, who you call in a snitch?
Cannonball said something back, offensive. And T-Bone was just like, bam, bam, bam,
bam on his face, knocked him out within seconds. And his head fell so hard against the toilet,
water bounced out of the toilet. And then T-Bone looks around the room at the other guys.
And they all just froze because he was about to take them out as well. I mean, this guy is a
fucking killing machine. And yeah, my cellmate was in there a long time and he came back and he
told me the story. Now the guy he hit tried to hide it because that snitching, you know,
if the guards see, it's dry snitching. Because if the guards see you, I'll beat up. Yeah,
that's dry snitching. So you've got to hide it because if the yard's going to get locked down,
they're going to do a knuckle check. So the guy couldn't hide it, man. He looked like he'd been
hit by a train. I saw him when they took him off the yard. His face was like a blue balloon,
just all swollen up. And they took T-Bone off the yard for a bit, but they brought him back on.
And he was lucky because they said they were going to street charge him, but they dropped it.
So I think they supported what T-Bone did on that occasion. Yeah. Wow. But T-Bone told me stories
about from the Zena pulling eyeballs out era. Okay. And T-Bone said, back then to raping,
there was a smell on the run from so many dudes getting raped. White dudes, you know,
and big guys just kissing them like they were women. He said that they weren't just raping with
their dicks in the arses. They'd stick like shampoo bottles, shanks. They do all kinds of
crazy things that they'd stick in their arses as well. And yeah, I wrote a blog on it called
T-Bone on prison rape. Well, I can't find it right now. And it gives all the details T-Bone
on prison rape. Let's see if it's on, if it's on Google. Because there was a lot of details that
I just can't remember off the top of my head. Yeah. Yeah. Is he's worse T-Bone now? Oh man,
this is so sad. All right. Here's an example then of the injustice against black people.
Now T-Bone was released from prison. He'd already served like almost 30 years in and out, in and
out. 30? Okay. Yeah, he must be in his 60s now. Ever since he got the Marines. All right. So when
he got the Marines, set himself up as a bodyguard and he was making up to $1,000 a day. Now in that
lifestyle, you know, he's getting on the cocaine. He's getting deep and his crimes were never major.
They all revolve around drug addiction. Like I said, he's got PTSD and stealing for drugs and
things like that. So he's a repeat offender. He got out about five or six years ago and I was on
the phone every day with him trying to get his life story down as a book because I knew that
would give him credibility to do talks in schools and churches, which is what he wants to do.
But I also knew I was in a race against time. When someone like T-Bone gets out of prison,
the special teams of cops watching them that get rewarded somehow, I don't know whether they get
money or they get the career promotions, they got the rest quotas and that kind of thing.
They're watching these guys to put them back in as soon as possible just to get them off the
streets. Really? Yeah, that's what it's like. That's what it's like for these guys. And
it all went down. It went down. There was a SWAT team raid. They put a shotgun to his neighbor's
head, some woman asking, how do you know T-Bone? How do you know him? How do you know him? She
done nothing wrong. So they took T-Bone in and they said, look, you've done a robbery.
You're facing a 200 year sentence if you lose at trial. Just sign guilty, admit you did the robbery
and we'll just bang you up for 10 or 15 years. And he said, no, I've not done the robbery.
Now, this is how they break people down if they've not done a crime. They say you're going to get a
life sentence signed here and innocent people will rather risk getting hundreds of years or dozens
of years. They'd rather risk that, not risk that and just sign and get like five years or 10 years
rather than risk because they know what happens. They're not going to win at court. Black guy.
So T-Bone prays and he believes God has his back and he's not done it. And he says, no,
I'm going to trial and for a black man to go to trial in Arizona, heaven help you man.
It's not going to happen. Trial is just theater. Whoever's got the most money puts on the best
show and that's always the state and they give you a public defender for, you know,
five thousand pounds budget for a public defender. You can't put on any kind of theater show at all.
So T-Bone goes to trial and his lawyer says to the cop on the stand, was there a camera at the
location? You said he's done this robbery. Yes, there was the camera. Show us the video of him
doing the robbery. I didn't have time to get the video. That's what the cop said. They tried it on
because they know he's more likely to sign a plea bargain and admit guilt for innocence than go to
trial and risk 200 years. So he called him out and he won it. He won it. He was so happy. He thought
he was getting out. The jury found him innocent. So what did they do? They slapped another charge
on him. They said he took $20 off a countertop in a shop, found him guilty and gave him 13 years.
Black lives do not matter one bit in the US justice system. From what I saw, my own experience,
and that is one story of many. I was there when a war hero got sentenced. The Vietnam
vet had been shot in the head by a sniper in one purple hard metal for bravery. I was there in the
court. Prosecutor said he's unemployed. He's got a nice new car. There was some crumbs of cocaine
in it. He must be a dealer. And the judge was like, bam, sent him away for almost 10 years just like
that. These are the people that feed the system. The prison population has to constantly expand
to keep the profits rolling in. Arizona's education budget is down to what now,
20 on the list, something like that. And prisons is in the top five, I think,
all about making money off human suffering. And they go for the most vulnerable people. Because
if you arrest a rich white kid, that kid's family is going to get him a high-priced lawyer.
That kid's family might know a prosecutor or a judge. They play the odds. They go for the
poorest people in society. People like Steven Avery and Brendan Dassey are making a murder.
They're just typical kind of people that they go after. Let's take a quick lateral step back to
when you were in prison. And you told a story about you were working in the cafeteria or something
and you were cleaning out trays. I don't know what you had a hole or people would just shove
their dirty trays in and you would hose them down. And you took a cigarette break or something
and you sat on a crate and someone said, get the fuck off my crate. So who is that guy?
I'm in minimum security. And it's all short timers and I think I'm going to get out soon.
No more problems. Effort's going to go fine. And I'm assigned to the kitchen duty.
So my job is in what's called a clipper room. Okay. Now, in the clipper room,
that's where you start. Remember the first day, this Chicano comes up to me and goes,
this is welcome to hell's kitchen. You're going to be in the clipper room. It's the hardest job
on the artists where everybody starts out. So I go in the clipper room. And in the clipper room,
there's like a hole in the wall where the chow trays come in. So in the chow hall,
you've got 200 prisoners and marched in. Out of another hole in the wall comes a tray to them.
You can't see the person behind the wall handing you the tray. Supposed to stop homey
hookups. You know, people. Okay. Yeah. So there's all the old trays come out,
all the old trays come in. 200 people come in, they've got 15 minutes to eat. If you
ain't finished eating, tough shit, you've got to get out. So everyone's like eating really fast,
not chewing properly. At the end of that 15 minutes, bam, bam, bam, all the trays just start coming in,
one after the other, one after the other, one after these giant sinks. Now you've got to get on
these trays and hose them down and move the next thing. And then they all go into this dishwasher.
And when I, when I, when I say dishwasher, this thing is like the size of a drive-in car wash.
And it was so broken. It had a gas leak and it was, every now and then it would shoot out flames
and people's hurt, people's, almost certain people on fire. Oh my God. There were days when we
revolted because it was like making these noises, like it was going to explode. It would go boom,
boom, loud and loud and loud enough to turn it off. Yeah, it was mental. The guy running the
kitchen was a white shirt. And when I say running the kitchen, that's an outside employee, not a
prisoner, was a white shirt. It was this African guy, we call blood diamonds. And when we say,
like, you know, it's going to blow, it's going to blow up, we're stopping working. He's like,
there's nothing you can do. Keep working, keep working. Always, you know, just pushing us,
pushing us, pushing us. So I'm in the kitchen doing my kitchen work and during a break,
I sit on a crate. Now a guy who has murdered two people in the prison system, Magpie, we'll call
him, comes up to me and says, that's my seat, get off it. Right. Everyone looks. Remember when I
told you the gang rules in part one, if someone calls you a punk or hit you or anything, you must
strike back or else everyone's going to prey on you. So if I get off that seat now, I'm a punk.
So this was your first time in that area. So you didn't know that that's where he typically sat or
something? Or what was that about? Exactly. Okay. I didn't even know whether he was telling the truth.
Right. You just, you just, you just knew you couldn't follow his command.
He was just trying to punk me out and I could not follow his command. My decision criteria is this.
Do I want to have a problem with everybody on the yard by being a punk?
Or do I want to have a problem with one person? Even though that person has murdered two people
in prison, I think I would rather have a problem with one person. So stayed on the seat. So he
starts kicking off. He's saying that he's going to come to my cell and shank me. I'm going to be
his third victim. And I've got a workout partner at that time called Iron Man, who was trained,
highly trained in martial arts and you can't do martial arts in prison. It's illegal.
So there was like a room on the end of a run on the upper tier where we could go and do yoga.
And we were in there one night. He's teaching me martial arts and there's a guard called the
Bloodhound. He's called the Bloodhound because it was said that he could smell hooch from a
hundred yards away. So me and Iron Man are doing martial arts and Iron Man says that Magpies got
a steel rod in his leg because he's been shot in prison by the guards. So Iron Man wants me to do
a snap kick on the iron rod in this guy's leg. And then as he falls forward to put him out of
action by going through his eyeballs, he's teaching me all this stuff. Either that or just
gouge him or whatever. So he's teaching me these things and we had a sense that something was
coming at us. Someone was approaching and we didn't know what it was, the Bloodhound. He was
coming to bust us. If you catch us doing martial arts, we'll get a disciplinary ticket, a write-up,
we'll lose our visits, we might get sent to lockdown, a prison within a prison.
All these bad things will happen. So all of a sudden we both jumped into tree pose in yoga.
We're both just in tree pose as the Bloodhound jumps into the cell. And there's nothing he
could do about that because yoga is perfectly legal. Oh my god. Now every night after my training
with Iron Man, I'm getting more and more perplexed because this thing's hanging over me and I just
want the beef to be squashed. So I said to Iron Man, why don't I just steam into his room,
have the fight and get it over with? And Iron Man said, look, the cameras will show you've
gone to his room, you'll be the aggressor, you're about to get released. But if they file street
charges on you for going into his room, you could get another five years onto your sentence.
So every night I'm in my cell with my sneakers on, just waiting for him to come in. I'm just going
to bounce up and about, he's mouthing off, you know, he's going to do this, he's going to do
that. And eventually the people on the yard said to him, if you don't go in and do something after
all this mouthing off, you're going to have to leave the yard, which means they're going to beat him
up and kick him off the yard. So one night he comes into my cell and I jump up, you know,
assume the position, kind of turn a bit of an angle from him, ready to throw a punch and stuff.
But he's got like a look on his face and I'm trying to figure it out. He doesn't look like
he wants to fight, but maybe he's trying to suck a punch me. How did he get in?
Oh, this was like a yard where you could just walk into people's cells.
Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah, yeah. He just came up the stairs, walked along the tier and came into my cell.
So I jump up, I'm ready, look at him. He looks like he's not going to get down, but I'm thinking
maybe he's trying to trick me into a false sense of security and then he's going to just go bam,
bam. So I'm looking at him, I'm saying, what's up? And he's like, he said that he's come to
apologize. I said, what? And he goes, he said he was just clowning. When he said he was going
to kill me, he was just clowning. Now, what I said to him, I said, when someone who's killed
two people in the prison system tells someone and their friends that they're going to kill them,
you know, because of your history, we're not going to see that as clowning. And he's like,
yeah, yeah, I understand that. But, but, you know, I'm about to get released. And if I kill you,
I could get the death penalty. I'll never get out. I've already served for you something years
wherever it was. He said that the guys he killed, he killed him when he first came in. It was even
them or him, it was something he had to do. And he extended his sentence, and he was looking forward
to getting out. And then he got a really sad look on his face. And he said, he goes, England,
all I know is heroin. He goes, I've got money. My dad had a business. But how am I going to survive?
All I know is heroin. That's, you know, like I said, all the day revolved was getting a heroin
and getting high on heroin to forget about the troubles. And he looked at me, and he knew I had
a female visit me. And he asked me for help. And I promised him some help, but he never followed
through. And in the end, this guy, I thought I was going to have to fight. He was maybe going to try
and stab me to death. I saw I felt his pain. Right. I felt his heart open when he was looking at me
talking about the heroin. And I just felt the pain of everything he'd been through for 30 years
and wondering what kind of horrible life he'd had. And I completely reversed in that second of my
heart opening from this guy being my number one enemy, coming to kill me to feeling sorry for the
dude. And that's what it's like. They've all got even the most heinous criminals who do murders and
stuff. They've all got behind every big crime. There's a horrific story of child abuse. That's
what I've learned, not just from my prison experience, but from I've done over 100 podcasts
now on my channel. More than half of them gangsters and criminals and a lot of them were abused as
well. One guy, he went to his best friend's house. Best friend wasn't home. The dad said,
come in, got him drunk and raped him. And he went to prison for trying to kill that guy.
And then when he went back to when he got out of prison, he went straight to that guy's house and
tried to kill him again. And then again, he kept doing it and doing it until he exploded and stabbed
his friend. And then ended up in prison for that as well. So this is something that this abuse
trajectory is something that if society wants to improve, we really need to start helping these
young people who are suffering. Yeah, I know, I know that's a vast majority of the people that are
in there. But it's so interesting how there is just this fascination with these types of people
in pop culture and in the media, you know what I mean, especially when they're when they're murderers.
Like there's so many documentaries, for example. And I think one of like the key things, I don't
know if you've noticed this, or if you've done a lot of studying on this, but the people who
go through not necessarily child trauma or child abuse, but
they don't get that connection when they're in that infant stage. Like for like just for an example,
Ted Kaczynski, how I just watched this documentary and they talk about how when he was an infant,
he basically broke out in hives and had to go to the hospital for like months and months and months.
And when he came back after without, they wouldn't allow his parents to visit him more than an hour
a week. And when he came back, he just was like gone. Like he was just like, he would stare off into
space. He had gone from like this bubbly, happy little kid to just like nobody's home. He lost
all his empathy. He lost his moral compass. And that guy was pretty fucking smart, considering
he was in Harvard by the age of 16 and doing all this stuff. And you know, the people like that,
like that guy had a cult following from prison, you know, the stuff that he talked about or whatever,
he had sort of like developed this massive group of people that worshiped him. How many people
did you run into, if any, in prison or after prison that were you would consider true psychopaths?
Oh, my goodness, I've known psychopaths before prison in prison and after prison.
And I think the psychopath is highest when they are youngest. And then it mellows out and they
find ways to make alliances with people. And they just, you know, become more strategic rather than
brute force in your face violence. So to Tony's was an example, you know, as a younger person
on the cocaine, just whacking people and not thinking twice, you know,
just just looked at it as a business transaction kind of thing. And some of these mafia guys see
it as the same as being in the military. You signing up to something where you're going to kill
or be killed. But then you got, you know, I've never associated with the complete psychopathic
monsters who would just torture and kill kids and women and stuff like that. I've never
associated or met anybody like that. Who like pre like planned out their murders,
you know what I mean? Like like thought like I'm going to plan them out perfectly. Like this is
going to be the perfect person I'm going to kill. And I'm going to write a journal about every single
kill. Like it's like this. Well, to Tony's detailed all of his methods of killing and body
disposal to me. And they're in his book, the mafia philosopher to Tony's, which on Amazon.
And he, you know, he would burn all of his clothes afterwards. They'd have plastic sheets.
They'd get rid of the gun. It was all done rather meticulously. But he had problems getting rid of
bodies because he whacked people from Arizona to Alaska. And in certain parts of the world,
depending upon the temperature, the body will decompose and run away. But the bodies in Alaska,
they didn't. The birds didn't eat them. They were hoping the birds would eat one and it didn't eat
it. And it just remained in the cold temperature. And the cops found it. And to Tony said that,
you know, the various methods of body disposal. One was you dig a deep hole, bury the body,
and then you put a dead animal over the body so many feet higher, because when the cadaver dog
comes out, it'll hit on the animal and then they'll stop digging to find the human corpse.
But even better, invest in funeral homes, which is what the banana crime family did,
who two Tonys worked for. So two Tonys came up under Charlie Bats Pataglia, who was a
lieutenant for the banana crime family. And Charlie Bats Pataglia had whacked people from
coast to coast and got rid of bodies and was an expert and never been caught for any of that.
So he passed that information down to two Tonys. And that's how he learned to get away with these
things. Because he killed a lot of people over the years and got away with all of it until
finally at the end, it all caught up with him. There's obviously a difference though, right?
I mean, he was doing it. It was very intertwined in his business. And it wasn't just at a pure
enjoyment. He was killing people. You know, he didn't get some sort of dopamine rush from
murdering people. He was doing it because he had to. Well, there was one where he whacked a guy
in a hotel room who was late on a there was a cocaine shipment was late. And the guy gave the
money to two Tonys and up all night on coke and he's getting more and more pissed off on him.
And he goes into the guy's room or the guy came into his room and can't remember what it was.
And the guy said something disrespectful. And two Tonys just blew his brains out. So
I wouldn't say it was the smartest thing to do from a business perspective.
Yeah, risk yourself, you know, in a death penalty state over such a small,
but when you're on coke and you're feeling disrespected and your egos pumped up like that,
then you know, you're just whacking people for trivial reasons.
Right. If you're a psychopath. And he said he was a psychopath.
He said that he was. Yeah.
Yeah. Now we're, he passed away, right?
Even as he was an old man before he passed away, he spent the day fantasizing
about smashing sex offenders teeth in with crowbars and things like that.
Now, what was it like leading up to your release finally in prison?
Oh, the release. It was, um, happy because, you know, the first year seems of incarceration
seems to last forever. And then it kind of like goals starts going faster and faster and faster.
And by the end of it, it's going really fast. And they say that going into prison really
messes with your head, but so does coming out. And in this country, they call it gate fever.
Right. So you're thinking, you know, am I going to get a girlfriend?
You're scared, right? You've got a fear.
Will I, uh, will people cross the road to avoid me? I've been in prison now.
How can I get a job? So all these fears are in your, in your head, but I was blessed to have
such good family. My mom, my dad, my sister. And, um, so my release story is
I've got this release that this lawyer that the New Mexico mafia, the lawyers got me this release date
and the release date comes, but they don't release me. So I'm thinking, oh, they've made some kind
of mistake. It was a few days later. They did finally release me. I had this thing called a
halftime release for a non-U.S. citizen that this kind of loophole lawyer got me. And I was
thinking, has it been processed? It's processed. So I'm all worried, you know, I'm not going to get
out. I'm going to do more and more years. But in the end I got this, it came down. The feds came
to get me to take me to the federal deportation prison. I can't remember where was it, Florence,
Marana, somewhere in Arizona. It's been so long now. So I'm in this federal deportation prison,
which of course is all Mexicans and one guy from England. And I picked up a bit of Spanish
Biden. So I'm talking to them, you know, some of them can't speak English. So they're asking me to
ask the guards certain things. So I'm making myself useful, um, with the Mexican community. And
they can't give you the date of your exact release for security reasons.
So eventually they come and say, roll up outward, you know, your release has come. And
they put us all on a Con Air flight. Con Air? Yeah, have you seen Con Air? Yes, only my favorite
movie in the world. So me and all the Mexicans are shackled in on this prison bus. That's good to hear.
There's no Con Air. Is the plane just like the plane in Con Air?
What happens is it's all federal marshals. They're looking at you. There's like rows of federal
marshals and rows of prisoners. And you're all shackled. You can't go up and have a pee or anything.
And if you try anything funny, they look like they're going to shoot you.
So we all get on. No, first off, they leave us on the bus for ages, and we're all up near
suffocating in the desert. Then they put us on the plane. Then they say the plane is broke down.
And we've got to go back to the jail and come back the next day. So it's all this this this
plava. Eventually the plane takes off. And for a couple of days, then I'm on Con Air going across
Arizona and California, dropping off and picking up Mexicans. It's like they make work for themselves,
just flying these planes around. Wow. They arrest Mexicans and they drop them off at a different
part of the border, whether you arrested them in the hope that, you know, that's going to
cause them not to come back in. It's all crap. It's all again, government financed and bullshit at
the taxpayer's expense. So I get to LA and I'm in a holding cell then in LA. It's going all through
the night. And I'm so excited. I'm getting out. I can't sleep. I'm so tired as well. My head's like
nodding and stuff. Sat there. There's no seats or anything. Just crouched against the wall and,
you know, and there was a guy in there who'd been in the news. He'd crashed
a some kind of car. I don't know if it was a Ferrari or what. It was quite a couple hundred
grand. I think this car, he crashed this car at 160 miles an hour. Jesus. So ridiculous. I don't
know what you've been doing. But this, this like European gangster. I can't remember his name.
I've written it all in my book, Prison Time, if you want to check that out. My trilogy is on
Amazon as well. It's party time, hard time, prison time, prison time details, my release.
And so I'm talking to him. He's quite cool. He's like, yeah, I got a place in London,
come and come and see me in London and all this stuff. I have luck since he is a proper full
on gas. He's got like a wiki page and I think he's back in prison now. So I'm talking to him.
He's been on the news. So he's kind of like a bit of a celebrity in there with his record crash.
And everyone just gets really quiet as the night progresses. You're like two, three in the morning
except for some guy from, was he from Brazil? No, Argentina, Argentina. And this guy is like hyper.
I don't know if he's on coke or crystal meth. So everyone's falling asleep and
trying to fall asleep, but they can't because this guy is just telling all these stories. He's like,
yeah, my woman is a supermodel and she's flown all the way to Argentina. She's waiting for me.
We're going to get married and she's so kind. She stops for homeless people and she wakes me up
every day, every single day with a blowjob. This guy's just going on and on and on and on and
having, you know, even this guy's bragging or he's insane. What the fuck? But he's going on and on
and on and nobody can sleep. And one minute I'm just sat in the corner trying to sleep. The next
minute I'm like, I fucking, I just walk over and start listening to him. I'm losing my mind as well.
You know, you're trying to occupy my time. I don't know what I'm doing. So after days of this,
this is what it's like. Nothing happens in a hurry. Yeah. Days of this, the
a guard comes and says, I'm taking some of you to the airport and he calls out me and the Argentinian.
So we leave the jail in this prison, boss, prison van. We're all shackled up. We've got one guy,
I think there's just one guard in the federal, federal driver. And you know what the traffic's
like in LA is bumper to bumper. So we are, we are just stuck all the way. And the driver goes,
if we don't get there, this is all going to have to be rescheduled. Now I'm thinking rescheduled
means we just get on the next flight, you know, we can't go on this flight, we just get on the next
flight. And the Argentinian, he's just, he's been hyper still, still tweaking, still tweaking.
All of a sudden his face just goes to sheer panic. It's like we're scheduled. We're scheduled.
I'm like, yeah, no problem. We're just going to get rescheduled. No, don't you know what rescheduled
means? And he goes, that means we have to go back to our original, you know, to some federal
deportation prison. And the whole thing, and it takes weeks or months to reschedule to get on
another flight. So he explains this. And I'm like, Oh, my fucking God, you know, my parents are on the
way to London to meet with the airport. So we get to, no, it brings us back to the jail.
And because we're getting rescheduled. And the Argentinian right now, the Argentinian
right now has just lost his mind. He's walking, we're both walking to the jail. The Argentinian
starts going, can I have a cigarette? Can I smoke? Can someone give me a cigarette? And of course,
no one's going to give him a fucking cigarette. He's a convict in chains. Right. He starts going
crazy. I need a cigarette. And then they'll just put him in a room and he's just like rocking like
this. And he's just, that's it. He's completely done. What kind of shit did he have to smoke to
last that long? I have no idea. But I'm feeling for him. You know, he's saying this supermodel
girlfriend's waiting for him to marry him. Wow. So whatever he was full of shit or not,
you know, it would have been nice for him to have got out another life. So the God says to me, look,
I've looked into this and he's missed his flight. He's got to be rescheduled. But there's still
times to get your flights. They take me out again. And I'm like, whoa. Yeah, yeah. So I get to the
airport. I'm sat in the van. The God says, I know, I say, I want to, I want to use the toilet I need
to pee. You know, hours of this, I've not had the chance to pee. He's like, you're not going to
try anything funny. Are you? I'm like, no, you know, we just want to go home. So he takes me into
a toilet and he chains me to a like a railing thing next to the toilet. He changed me to it
while he goes to pee and then I pee and then he brings me out and he's still like going,
you're not going to try anything funny. You're not going to try anything funny. I'm like, no,
I just want to go home. So I had a guy, I brought a guy on the other, you know, a few weeks ago and he,
he just looked really funny and shifty and the captain wouldn't let him on the plane and he had
to be rescheduled. You know, you're not going to try anything funny. No, no, you know, I'm a business
graduate. I'm a stock market guy. I'm trying. So he takes me on the plane. He goes, I'm going to
put you on first. You don't scare the passengers. And there's a cabin crew from London. And they
talked to me like I was a human being. It was the first time in almost six years, anyone has taught
to me like I was a human being. And I couldn't believe it. I was like, I was just, I was just
melting that a civilian had taught to me like I was a human being. And they showed me where to sit
and I got over there. And then all the passengers get on. And after being around hurry sweaty men
for six years, you know, I could smell the women's perfume and all this stuff. But I was a bit
institutionalised. One of the mistakes I made was I put my hand up and I asked a female member
of the cabin crew if I could go to the toilet. Like the toilet's right there. You don't need to
ask. I'm going red. I was paranoid that I stung because I've been in transportation for days.
So I want to have a bird bath in prison. If you can't go out yourself because of all the lockdowns,
you have a bird bath, which means you basically just scrub your armpits and scrub your ass and
your cock. Yeah. So so I go in there and have my bird bath, come back out. And they got some
stupid movies on and the flights go in and we land at Gatwick. There's actually some footage
of my YouTube channel of me in the car, in the car and meeting my parents at the airport.
My mom's crying. We're having a hug. I'm all stubbled out. My face is just completely pale
and shell shocked. You can see I've been through some intense stuff. And my mom's crying. It's just
so nice to give my mom a hug. Right away, they took me to the Indian restaurant. I ordered
chicken tikka masala, my former favorite, but I got the gag reflex because of the dead rats in
the mystery meat slop that I think I told you about in part one. Yeah, I got the gag reflex. I
couldn't eat it. And to this day, I've stayed vegetarian because of that. I did some BBC interviews
and a counselor, a big reputation in London, an officer out of Harley Street, which is very
prestigious, contacted the BBC and said, look, you heard me tell the BBC the cockroach story and
other stories I've told you. He said, look, I want to contact this guy and offer him a job
speaking in the schools. And I was blessed that such good people came into my life to help me get
my public speaking career going and get my books going. 13 books now just published Pablo
Esco's story part three this week. That's my 13th book. So he offers me this job speaking in the
schools. I said, look, I'm a bit institutionalized. I've got to get my head straight. I really
appreciate this. But it'll give me a bit of time to settle down before I speak in a school. I think
it was about a year and a half later, before I took him up on that job situation. My mom said
I was like a puppy duck falling around the house waiting for orders. And in the end, I moved down
south into the house of one of my former XC suppliers, Mike Hot Wheels, he's one of the
main characters in party time. He was supplying XC out of LA to me before I started going through
Holland. He was a rave DJ as well out of Manchester, which isn't, you know, near where I was. I grew
up. He's 10 years older than me. So he's a bit of a mentor for me as I was coming up in a drug scene.
And Mike got arrested in prison in the feds in America. He was he ended up. And he his case
was running a few years before mine. So he got released before me got this house in Guildford.
And he's like just moving with me. And because that's near London, that's how I was able to
make the necessary connections to get my career back on track.
Now, what did you do to get your career back on track? So what did you do to make money? I mean,
obviously, there's a big mental shift for you. You were, like you said, you were full of testosterone.
You were all about making, making millions of dollars. You were doing whatever you were doing,
coke, ecstasy, all that stuff. And like fast paced lifestyle, just like the Wolf of Wall Street.
And there was obviously a huge transformation that happened to you inside prison. So now,
what is your outlook when it comes to making money or rebuilding your wealth?
So I went from that greed is good motto to just taking it as it came and trying to rebuild
my life from scratch. And I do enjoy my therapist said I enjoy building things up,
but then I knocked them back down again when I get to the top. So I knew I was not going to knock
it down again. I was just going to make slow and steady progress in life. Now, it was in the maximum
security jail. My writing got smuggled out back in 2003, 2004, that caused the blog,
John Steele Journal, that attracted international media attention to Sheriff Joe Piles Hellhole.
And a literary agent did approach me about a book. And when I got out, that literary agent died.
So then I'm like contacting literary agents and publishers saying I've got the best story in
the world and the best right in the world. I didn't have a clue what I was doing. I was just
burning bridges completely. So I won a short story contest that my mom had entered me into
through a charity called Prisoners Abroad. And I forgot not even entered it. It was about
a shit slinger in Supermax. Oh, yeah, I remember that story. Yeah, yeah. Well, this was a whole
different shit slinger story. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. That was made into a short story.
It was about a white guy who was in the Supermax and this big shit slinger.
It was about a battle between then two that they had going on for a long time and what happened.
So I went a short story contest, I'm asked to read it at the Royal Festival Hall.
And the people who have won this award through are called the Curse of Trust.
So Prisoners Abroad entered it. Curse of Trust gave me the award. And these wonderful people,
some of the money from my books go to them now to this day because they just do such great work
helping prisoners rehabilitate through art. That's what Curse of Trust do. They're based out of London.
They put me on their Mentos scheme. So I published the offer, came and met me every month
in the London Museum and stuff. And within a year of this lady working her magic,
I had a literary agent. And that guy, he helped me fine tune as well. And then he got me a deal
with Random House, who published, originally published my life story as a trilogy before I
got the rights back. Now, I'm thinking, right, you know, the author, the term author,
as associated with it, the biggest misconception by the public of income.
Authors are actually some of the lowest paid people in the world. If you look at the average
income for an author, people think of J.K. Rowling, Stephen King, they think everybody,
everybody's an author is making that much money, but then that most authors are broke. And that's
learned that the hard way. Then I'm thinking, well, no, for now, gonna make all this money.
Yes. So I'm selling 100,000 pounds worth of books a year for Random House.
We're doing that a lot. I'm doing book signings. And by book signing, I mean me and my mom
are in the store all day long from nine o'clock till five o'clock handing out leaflets and putting
people in headlocks, mationed by the bloody book. They're not all lined up at a table because I'm
so famous and I could just sit there and sign books and leave after an hour. Me and my mom,
we just, oh man, we went up and down the country doing that. Wow. I'm selling 100,000 pounds
of a book a year. That's like $120,000. I got a check every six months in Random House.
How much do you think that check was?
$10,000. True. $2,000. Jesus Christ. Yeah. So it took me a long time, man, to rebuild and to
make an income decent enough to start investing in my own podcast and stuff like that.
That's kind of how a lot of people have to start though. I mean, when you start fresh and something
like that, you kind of have to, you got to start without, you have no recollection. You don't know
how anything works. You have no connections. You have no leverage. You're just, you're fresh out
of prison. And that's how you learn. It took me 10 years to become a millionaire in the stock market.
It took me 10 years for my initial drug purchases for me to be doing the millions in the
ecstasy trafficking business. It's, you know, it's took equally that long to become a best seller
on Amazon. Wow. Is that how long it's been since you got out or since you've published?
I got released in December 2007. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So what I've done then is I've expanded
because of my platform now is such rather than just be writing about myself and talking about myself,
I now interview other people who've got our prison, help them get their stories out,
help them get book deals. My own publishing company now, Gathlye Press is working with about 10 of
my podcast guests. It's all true crime getting their books out as well. Right. All those good
people who helped me, I remember. Now I'm trying to be one of those people now giving other people
a leg up, especially guys who've just got out of prison. What, how would you describe how
not necessarily reading, but writing has changed your life.
So writing has become my life. You know, I read over, someone said reading would improve my writing.
I read over a thousand books. That became the lifeblood of my rehabilitation and blogging
in prison saved my sanity. Writing about the conditions helped me deal with the conditions.
And then when the responses came in from the public, it was like the spirit of those people
was right there with me in the cell. When you say blogging, what do you mean by that?
Okay. So when I was in Mac security, I started to write everything down. In the beginning,
it was about the cockroaches. Okay. That's how my writing got discovered. Now I couldn't just
post what I couldn't just post what I wrote because the guards can open your mail.
You know, we wanted to expose what was going on, but my aunt would visit me in Mac security.
So I figured out a way for her to get those written notes out of the jail.
And when I look back at those written notes now, they're all crinkled with sweat because I'm
sat in that cell sweating all over the paper with my little pencil shouting on the door.
So what she did was she came and visited me. I couldn't hand what I'd written to her because
in Mac security, she's behind the plexiglass screen. I'm in a cubicle. I've got one hand
handcuffed to the table and another hand holding a telephone. Do you remember in
Silence of the Lambs when Hannibal Lecter first met Clarice Starling?
I think so. And Hannibal comes down into that dungeon. I'm sorry, Clarice Starling,
the FBI agent comes down. Isn't he in that like, he's in like a fish tank type thing, right?
She comes down to the dungeon and he's behind the plexiglass screen and she's speaking to him.
Yeah, it's a bit like that. So what I could do was a property release. And what that means is
in my cell, I'm only allowed seven books. If I go over that, I've got to release it,
my old mail, my old legal paperwork. I can release that to my hand. Now to do a property
release, you've got to get a form called a tank order. You've got to beg a guard for that. You've
got to fill it out. And then these superiors got to sign off on it. Then you go up to the property
of your tank order doing the penguin shuffle because I'm in Mac security. So my hands are cuffed,
my legs are cuffed doing the penguin shuffle, holding onto my property with my property release.
I gave that to the visitation officer with what I'd written hidden in it. Now the guards are
trained to search for contraband, drugs, cash, syringes. So they don't notice stuff that I've
got hidden in property that's just written down. That stuff is on the guard's desk while I've got
the visit with my aunt. So I'm looking over, if you've seen my Lock the Broad episode on National
Geographic, it shows me with my aunt and I'm looking over the guard's desk, I'm sweating,
thinking he's going to find it. And at the end of the visit, my aunt claims the property from the guard,
she walks out of the maximum security Madison Street jail with it, goes home,
types them up, emails them to my parents in my downtown witness, near Liverpool and Manchester.
My parents put them online as a blog, John's Journal Journal, not Sean because I think we
discussed in part one that the guards were murdering mentally ill prisoners. But did they tell you
about that? They were doing what to mentally ill prisoners? Murdering them. No, you didn't,
I don't think you did say that. Okay then. I've got videos on my channel of guards
murdering mentally ill prisoners, including war veterans. Now the cases that came about back then,
Brian Crenshaw was classified as a partially blind shoplifter,
failed to produce his ID for the evening meal. The guards pulverized him,
broke his neck, severe internal injuries. He went into a coma and died a month later.
People can Google these names. Scott Norberg, mentally ill man, they bring him in.
Guards start beating him and electrocuting him with tasers. Female guard tries to stop it,
stop beating in his face as turn blue. They ignore her and they keep beating him.
The prisoners start to yell, why are you still beating him? He is already dead.
And they were like a pack of animals. They couldn't, even though he wasn't by now a corpse.
Right. They could not stop beating the corpse.
Just like a pack of animals. Once that triggered, they can't stop.
So those cases were caught on camera and family members of the victims of the guards sued the
jail and rewarded compensation. My question for you, Danny, is what do you think the boss,
Sheriff Jorapai, did to some of those guards that were found responsible in federal court
for murdering those prisoners? I mean, I can't imagine. They probably got paid leave
or something like that. Or they got to retire early. Pay rises and promotions.
Really? So they just got rewarded and they kept their jobs.
Rewarded for murder, which is an incentive to kill.
Our Pio always backs his guys up, prides himself, America's toughest sheriff,
who gives a shit about prisoners. That's his attitude. Yeah. So my mum was aware of these
lawsuits and these cases and these people that the guards had murdered. Yeah. Now the blog idea
came from my dad. This was when blogs were just starting. Right. And we became the first prison
blog. And I think we were the first prison YouTube channel because it started in 2007.
My channel, and I think we put videos up in 2008. And my dad had read a book called
The Bag Dad Blogger by Salem Pax. And that's how my dad learned about blogging.
And it was in the news. This guy, when the bombs were dropping on Iraq, he lived there.
So he was describing what the day to day life was like. And this was making news in the UK.
So my dad read this and he sent me even an article and he eventually sent me the guy's book.
And I was very frustrated at the injustices that were being perpetrated, the human rights
violations, not just on me, but on the prison population. I was outraged and I saw all the
people profiting from it. So as an educated person, I wanted to expose it by using the tools.
So when my dad proposed this blogging thing, I was all over it. But my mom was like putting
the brakes on because of the murders by the guards. She did not want us to do it. So then we
came up with John, which is Irish for Sean anyway. And the bigger thing has changed your name that
would protect you. And that's what it did. Yeah, that's how we proceeded. It took a while for the
authorities to catch up with it. My blog now is and all my books are classified as a threat to the
security of the institution in Arizona. And prisoners are prohibited from accessing them.
So my aunts got smuggled the stuff out. I thought just my friends and, you know, some few little
people would read it. Yeah, when I got moved over to Supermax, because of more tricks by the
prosecutor, the BBC, the Guardian ran it, a major newspaper here. They had an American cockroach on
the front of the section. And all the anecdotes I told you about the cockroaches. Yeah. That's what
got my writing discovered. Oh my goodness. And then the BBC. That's fucking amazing. The BBC ran it.
And it's just not stopped. The media has not stopped since since then. And the interest has
not stopped since then. So over 10 years ago. So you were writing, you were sitting sitting down
in your cell writing daily. Yeah, and I was writing letters to people, people would read my blog,
contact the blog administration, which was my parents. And then my parents, once they vetted
them and found out, you know, they were good people would give them my prison address. And
they would write letters to me and send books to me. And it got to the point where
there's good and bad in every profession. I'm going to give you a good guard story now.
I was at a prison later on in the Arizona Department of Corrections until I was allowed
seven books in my cell. And a redneck prison guard with the aviator glasses on chewing tobacco
comes across the desert with a wheelbarrow full of books, a cart full of books. And there's like
100 200 guys on the yard and they've all heads are turning because you know, mail and books are gold.
He gets to the bottom of my tier. I'm on the upper tier and he yells up, he's like outward,
get your ass down here. So I go down. He goes, how many books are you allowed in your cell?
I said seven. He goes, well, there's 50 something books in here.
Everything over seven is now contraband and I can destroy them. But I know you're sharing them with
the fellas, you're filling the library up. I'm going to turn my head and look the other way.
And I yelled all my mates over and they came down. And we were like a trail of ants across
the desert all holding these little stacks of books. And when we got in my cell, it was like
Christmas, we were sniffing the books. And two Tony's he introduced me to some of the more literary
authors. I was reading Steve, Stephen King, when he came in myself one day, he's like,
that motherfucker's churning out books like McDonald's is churning out hamburgers.
You need to read some Tom Wolf, some Norman Mailer, some John Updike. And they did become my
favorite contemporary American authors, thanks to two Tony's influence. So two Tony's in the cell
on that day that was like Christmas sniffing, you know, Tom Wolf's latest book and people are
running off back to the cells of the books. Yeah, yeah. So there are some good guards. It's good
and bad in every profession, like I said. And it just expanded from there. But I've got all this
written content, you know, years and years of written content. And then became a point
two or three years ago. That's all I was focused on. But I started to realize young people just
want videos. And I went on I went on true Jordy podcast. I think I had like, I don't know, 2000
to 10,000 subscribers on my YouTube channel. I went on true Jordy podcast. And like three years
ago, right? Yeah, I told my stories like I've been telling you. And that just caused my YouTube
channel to blow up. So you asked about my what I focused on in my life now, my profession.
Yeah, what I've done is transferred all of my written content over to video.
Right. Plus interviewed loads of new people and got those stories and put that out as a video as
well. But now I'm reverse engineering that back into books. Okay, man, what you're doing is
absolutely it's so it's so impressive what you what you've been able to do in the work ethic
that you put into it. Like you just said today, you've probably done you've already you made a
live stream video. You did another interview. Now you're doing this. You're like, well, my my
former crime partner, Wildman calls me the robot. He said he calls you the robot. Yeah.
But yeah, man, your work ethic is is super admirable. And the content that you're creating
and the amount of books that you're cranking out is is just it's amazing. It's it really is a lot
of its facts to the YouTube viewers, people watching this right now, even because they have
suggested video ideas and guest ideas. And they've really, they've really steered my channel to the
point where it's got this momentum. Yeah, man, it's admirable. I truly I truly love it. And
those books, those two books on each side of your head, American made.
And what's the other one called Clinton and the CIA conspiracies? Clinton,
Bush and CIA conspiracies from the boys on the tracks of Jeffrey Epstein.
Now, right today is this morning. Who was arrested by the FBI? Oh my goodness. We never thought it
would happen. Just never. Prince Andrew's partner in crime, Ghislaine Maxwell.
Also the madame, you call her a madame to Jeffrey Epstein. Not just the chief procurer
and co-conspirator, but also someone who participated in assaulting the kids.
Now, what does this mean for her to be arrested by the FBI today?
It's huge because if it's not getting swept under the carpet and it's a conspiracy case like this,
I looked at the indictment today. I did a one hour video whereby I read the indictment out on
YouTube on a live stream and she has got six charges. The last two are perjury, which aren't
that significant. But the first four are hugely significant trafficking kids for sexual abuse
and participating in the abuse. She's facing multiple life sentences. So the only way she's
going to get out of this situation now is if she turns snitch and coughs up some big names.
So how long before she gets suicided? That's it. She presents the exact same risk now to the
elites who suicided Epstein that Epstein presented. But if she gets whacked, that is just too obvious.
Well, they don't know because it ends there, doesn't it? It ends there. If she goes and names
Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew in a court trial, government agencies have to take action if she
says they are having sex with kids. It can't get to that. It's got to be stopped.
Jesus Christ, this shit gives me chills, man. It is so fucking scary.
It's great because the Epstein case, all of a sudden there was no news for days
and then bam, they grab her, the chief procurer.
No, she's close with the CIA, right? She knows people in the CIA, right?
She's got connections. So do you think she knew this was coming?
If you go back to the history of Robert Maxwell, he had connections with all the
intelligence agencies. He was far bigger player than Epstein or Ghislaine.
But once you become a liability, they take you out. He was off the Canary Islands on his yacht,
the Lady Ghislaine, thinking that some money was forthcoming from a certain country and an
intelligence agency. And they had a hit squad in Dingy's below the radar. He's up on deck.
They come up. They were planning it. Bam, get him in the neck of a syringe
with a poison that's untraceable. That's how they took him out. And it's still debated to
this day how he died. But in the assassination of Robert Maxwell, and I have interviewed Erie
Bambinash, he was prominent in that. It looks like that's what went down. So when these people,
even though they've got all these connections to the world, and Maxwell, he could sit down with
the president of Russia, president of Israel, president of America, with MI5, the CIA, MI6,
the Mossad, you name it, when these people become a liability, they've got to go. So
she can have all the connections in the world. But once you become that liability, you've got to go.
I know you watched the Epstein documentary on Netflix, Filthy Rich. What were your thoughts
on that overall? Man, I was in tears watching the victims. Because you interviewed a lot of those
women. I've interviewed Maria Farmer, and I've had interactions with others online. And just to
hear the judge say that they were human beings and they were victims, they weren't child prostitutes
and criminalized, which is what Dershowitz and his crew tried to do to them. And Acosta, absolutely
disgusting people. Just to see that the happiness in them, to be acknowledged as human beings.
And today, this must be a huge day for them. I've been watching all day on Twitter to see if Maria
or Virginia have tweeted yet, because they must be inundated right now. This is a result of the
bravery, what has happened, that they've not dropped this case, and they've kept going no matter what.
Maria Farmer had private detectives outside of her house, shining lights in the middle of the
night, threatening her life. One of the bodyguards that works the property was psyching himself up
to kill her. And she managed to get out of that situation. The things that these women went through
is proper horror movie stuff. So I urge people all over the world to go on Twitter and support
Virginia and Maria Farmer and send them a tweet and follow them.
I wanted to touch a little bit on your book about Pablo Escobar and George Bush. George
Sr., right? Yeah, of course, yeah. So who was Barry Seal? Okay, so my book, American Made,
is about the CIA cocaine flying pilot Barry Seal. There was also a movie starring Tom Cruise,
which was a complete whitewash. It did show some things as they allow more to be shown,
but a whitewash about the more hardcore stuff. So the subtitle is Who Killed Barry Seal?
The George HW Bush or Pablo Escobar? Okay, so who killed him? Was it Pablo or was it George Bush?
All right, so you've got Barry Seal flying in cocaine to Arkansas. You've got this operation is
run by George HW Bush and Oliver North with full national security CIA protection. The state of
Arkansas is run by then Governor Bill Clinton. So he's providing the police, state police,
to protect it. And it all went wrong when two kids were found dead on railroad tracks. And the first
chapter, there's the stories of four people interweave throughout this book. Okay. And Linda
Ives is the mum of Kevin Ives who was one of the boys on the tracks. Okay. Now,
evil Bill Clinton had a corrupt medical examiner, who basically would give him whatever verdict
method of death he required. So the method of death on these two boys,
it was ruled that they'd got so high on weed, they'd gone into a psychedelic trance and lay down
side by side on the railroad tracks and a train had run over them. Well, actually, they'd seen the
drug drop and the bodyguards had seen the kids and the kids were snuffed out. That's what really
happened. And Linda Ives has been trying to get justice from Bill Clinton to this day and he won't
even acknowledge her. And how do you know this? How can you confidently say this? Because Charlene
Wilson was there at the scene and Dan Lasseter, she was a drug addicted lady who was being used by
these players. Dan Lasseter was a guy who was pretending to be Dr. Lasseter, picking up medical
organs. Terry Reed wrote a book called Compromised. He was working with Barry Seal. He didn't know
about the coke until later when he got moved to Mexico after Barry Seal died. But Terry Reed
and other pilots have all come out and said that they were bringing the coke in.
And Terry Reed, he's got a book called Compromised. It's huge. And this is a CIA guy and he details
the whole thing. So it's not from conspiracy theorists. All my information is from people who
arrested, people who were cops protecting the Clintons and people who were working for the CIA.
And all these people's stories correlate with each other?
Absolutely, because it's the truth. I believe it 100%. And even the public, 10, 20 years ago,
if you told the public that the US federal government was waging a war on drugs while
bringing the cocaine in that spawned the crack epidemic, you were called a conspiracy theorist.
Oh, 100%. But now everybody accepts that the war in Nicaragua had to be financed,
was being financed by cocaine. And George H. W. Bush and Oliver North were running that.
People fully accept that now.
Okay. So Barry Seal was flying in cocaine.
Yeah.
To where?
To Arkansas and weapons back down to Nicaragua.
While all this while Bill Clinton was the governor of Arkansas.
Yeah. And Bill Clinton was hooked on cocaine himself. His brother Roger was hooked on coke
and got arrested in a cocaine deal. And the undercover cop recorded him saying some of this
is for Bill. He's got a nose like a vacuum cleaner.
There's a there's a video recording of Roger Clinton
after he's been arrested saying a bunch of crazy expletives.
And yeah, all racial words and expletives. Yeah, that's what those guys were like.
They get on TV and say they fight in a war on drugs and behind the scenes,
they are running the drugs and they're locking up all the lowest level users
to make profits off it. This is how psychopathic and evil these people are.
Clinton ended up hospitalized because of nasal damage from all the coke he was doing.
Hillary went down the hospital, threatened all the staff.
DBA to septum, right?
Yeah. And said to all the staff, any of this comes out, you are ruined. Your careers are over.
I will wipe the floor with you. All the women that Clinton was having sex with, some consensual,
some not lawsuits were settled. Hillary found out where all those women were and they were
stalked, pets were murdered and they were threatened never ever to say a single thing.
No, because she was jealous. She was just supporting his rise to power because
their rise to power was together.
It really was like the fucking house of cards.
Yep, there's a book called Partners in Power which details it all.
And that again is testimonies from Arkansas State Police protecting the Clintons.
Prosecutors who were trying to prosecute drug deals, who ended up death-threatened.
All kinds of crazy stuff went on.
Dan had, the prosecutor that pretended to help Linda Ives,
that was coming in as the savior to get her justice,
was later sent to prison for running a drug ring.
Wow, I think his name was Dan Harmon.
I'm getting confused. There's two Dan's in my book. There's Dan Harmon and there's Dan Lasseter.
One was the finance guy who was laundering the cocaine money for Clinton and contributing to him.
And if you wanted to launder your money, if you wanted to be part of that,
they were doing loans through Arkansas Development Finance Authority.
This is the scam they set up.
According to Larry Nichols, who worked for them, another insider,
a hundred million a month was getting laundered through ADFA.
And to get a loan from ADFA that you never had to repay back,
you had to submit your application with a check for five or 10 grand or whatever,
to Rose Law Firm, where Hillary Clinton was at.
Wow, man.
Don't forget, Hillary Clinton was a person who got a pedophile off.
He did so much damage to his victim, and she was cackling about it afterwards when she was a lawyer.
Weren't there people who had, there was autopsy reports of people with multiple
shotgun wounds to their chest that was labeled a suicide?
Yeah, the medical examiner who said the boys would lay side by side on the tracks.
There was people being decapitated and things, and he said it was stomach ulcers.
People were hundreds of stab wounds, and he says, you know, whatever.
And there was a term, there was a term developed for this kind of, uh, this type of suit.
Arkansas, yeah, yeah, absolutely, man.
An Arkansas suicide, a.k.a. a Clinton murder.
All the way from the boys on the tracks to Jeffrey Epstein.
Okay, now, let's go back to this guy, Barry Seal.
Yeah.
So he was the, he was literally flying this cocaine back to the U.S.
I never answered your question.
Who killed him?
That's right.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Barry Seal is flying the cocaine in, and the weapons out to Nicaragua.
He's doing all kinds of shady transactions on the side, and he gets in trouble with the DEA.
So what you're seeing here is a pattern, whether it's Epstein, whether it's Ghislaine Maxwell,
whether it's Robert Maxwell, of people working with the intelligence agency.
But getting in so much trouble, they cross the line whereby they become a liability.
That's exactly what happens with Barry Seal.
He gets in trouble with the DEA.
He knows all this stuff about the cocaine shipments.
Too much information.
He's a liability.
As he gets in more trouble with the DEA, he starts sweating George H.W. Bush to help him to get out
of the situation. George H.W. Bush does not help him.
What happens is a federal judge on his case with the DEA orders Barry Seal that he's no
longer able to carry a gun, orders Barry Seal that he's no longer able to have armed bodyguards,
orders Barry Seal to live in a halfway house with a fixed address.
Now, Barry Seal, during his work for the DEA to try and get himself out of trouble,
had snitched on Escobar, and Escobar had a contract out on him.
Well, they couldn't catch him. Barry Seal said I could see a Colombian a mile away in Louisiana.
So the federal government knew, Bush knew, take away his guns, take away his armed bodyguards,
put him at a fixed address.
The Medellin cartel are going to wipe him out like that.
And that's exactly what happened.
So who killed him?
Who killed him?
Both.
Both.
Wow.
Bush took away his protection and made him vulnerable.
And the hitmen came in.
And oddly enough, I just interviewed a couple of days ago.
I think you interviewed him as well, I think.
Yeah, Jorge Valdez.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he talks about this because he met one of the shooters, didn't he, of Barry Seal?
He met the hitman.
Did he really?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's what I believe went down.
That's what Barry Seal's son believes went down.
He gave me a quote for the book.
He said it's the only one who's put the truth out there.
And we have a question.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah, I forgot.
Barry Seal was found dead and there was a phone number on him.
And that was the line, the phone number for George H. W. Bush was found on him when he was...
What?
Yeah.
And of course, the feds come in and just take all the evidence right away.
Yeah.
And how are you able to uncover this?
Because it's just been thoroughly documented by everybody involved in the case.
Terry Reid, credit to him, his book Compromised.
Now, Terry Reid was a straight shooter and Barry knew he was a straight shooter.
And he did not tell him that there was cocaine coming back.
He just told him, you know, patriotism, communism, fighting this war, Nicaragua,
the guard of the weapons.
Terry Reid had no idea.
Now, Barry Seal's dream was to have a CIA-sponsored airline like Sovereign Transport,
but do it over Mexico.
And the CIA proceeded to set that up with Terry Reid.
But when Terry Reid learned about the drug shipments, he blew the whistle.
And then he had to go on the run.
They criminalized him.
They tried to kill him.
And it's all detailed in his book Compromised.
I urge people to go and read it.
And these are insiders.
These are insiders.
They're not conspiracy theorists.
Just just just put this out.
Right.
Yeah.
Right.
So, all right.
So, Escobar then.
Columbia has a cartel boss in each area.
So you got, you know, Rodriguez Gacha is the boss of the Bogota region.
You've got the Oroela brothers, Gilberto and Miguel,
the Cali Cartel, bosses of Cali.
Got Pablo, the boss of Medellin.
You got the Castao brothers who were instrumental,
who were some of Pablo's guys who were instrumental in his death.
You got all these big traffickers across the country.
That's the point that I'm saying.
The kingpins.
The kingpins, yeah.
The US come along.
And, you know, because of drug laws,
cocaine is going for, what, 60 grand a kilo in the 1970s and coming down slowly into the 80s.
Pablo can source cocoa paste for $60 a kilo out of Peru and Bolivia in the beginning.
So, because of drug laws, the profit margin is astronomical.
It doesn't matter who gets arrested, the cocaine will always flow.
Now, when there's something so profitable in the world as drugs,
if you're the most powerful country in the world,
you're going to want to lock that down.
And that's what the CIA did.
They said, look, here's our justification.
If the communists are running this and they arm themselves with drug money,
they're going to be knocking on America's door.
It's domino theory.
You know, all these countries in Central and South America fall.
Mexico falls.
Next thing they're going to be knocking on our door.
So, we've got to control this situation.
But at the same time, while they're profiting from it,
they're fighting a war.
The US federal government is fighting a war on drugs.
So, the CIA has got the highest level of security power and clearance.
They're in charge of running the drugs.
The DEA, another arm of the US federal government,
is fighting the war on drugs.
But by fighting the war on drugs, you choose who you can arrest
and you choose who you can allow to deal.
It's the ultimate way to control the drugs market.
And George H. W. Bush at a dinner was bragging,
when asked about this, was bragging,
it's beyond the public conception that people running the drugs,
people fighting the war on drugs, could be running the drugs.
It's so beyond the public's, that's how he got away with it.
He said it's because it's so beyond what the public's minds will accept.
The arrogance of these fucking psychopaths.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah.
So, if you're fighting the war on drugs, what do you need?
A boogeyman.
Pablo Escobar was the boogeyman.
And all of the figures, yeah, the Median cartel were doing a lot.
But all the figures that the US prosecutors say are embellished and exaggerated.
And you know, was it Barron said he was the richest guy in the world all those years in a row?
Well, Juan Pablo Escobar said Barron's never came out.
And audited our finances.
You know, how did they make these things up?
They make them up at the clear blue sky.
The term the Median cartel was made up by US federal prosecutors.
The more power make these prosecutions more easily and give them longer sentences.
It's all a construct of the war on drugs.
So you arrest Pablo.
Such a victory.
We're going to pose now with kilos of cocaine.
That's George.
It's only posing with kilos of cocaine.
Going to get more votes.
All about the votes.
Cali cartel takeover.
It almost seems kind of counterintuitive for them to kill Pablo though, right?
Because Pablo was fueling this whole thing.
Why would they kill him?
Well, they didn't kill him.
He killed himself.
But they set things in motion that killed him with his enemies.
It was his own men that hunted him down in the end.
The Castao brothers were in charge of the operation.
They would head of the death squad, Las Pepes.
And Don Burner was the lieutenant who was on the ground,
who went into the house with his brother's seed.
There was some copster, but they always sent Las Pepes in the death squad first.
And then they would have to disappear because they were in the legal death squad
and the police would take the credit.
Police were shitting themselves about Pablo.
But they were using technology to track him down with the authorities
and working with the authorities.
Right, right.
So they go in.
The Castao brothers have announced that they're going to capture Pablo alive.
They're going to have his arms and legs surgically removed.
And they're going to keep him alive.
And they're going to throw the stumps on Medellin.
The king of Medellin is now, you know, this stump.
And that would guarantee their legend.
They were going to chop his kids up and send them to him in a sack.
Now, Pablo died because of the love of his family.
He stayed on the phone for too long.
He caused the end to happen.
And he always said to his men, he's got his famous six hour pistol.
He's going to shoot off so many bullets and then he's going to put one in his head.
Look at how, how, you know, the line that bullet went through almost one ear,
almost perfect line through one ear and to the other ear, slightly out of place.
But he'd been shot three times.
I think it was three times.
He'd been shot in the knee.
He'd been shot in the shoulder.
And one of the bullets had ended up lodged between his teeth.
It was over for him.
And he knew that he had to, he had to get out the way to save his family.
He sacrificed himself for the love of his family.
And that's what's interesting about him is these contradictions.
This guy who authorized genital electrocution and torture.
One of the tortures they had was they would put rags with petrol into your mouth,
with, you know, gas that runs cars into your mouth until your eyeballs popped out.
They would, they wouldn't just kill you.
They would kill whole generations of your family.
Yeah, his lover for his family was so strong, you know, he died for his family.
Now he was made the boogeyman because he went to war with the government,
instead of just kicking back.
So it was, according to Jorge, George Valdez,
there was people bigger than him who kicked back and stayed out of the headlines.
And in the 1980s, when Pablo was making all this news war with the government,
you know, Felix Gallardo was rising up as the Mexican cartel
without making any news headlines whatsoever.
That was a far shrewder strategy.
When they took the Colombians down, you know, the Mexicans took over,
because it doesn't matter which country you take down,
another country's going to pick you up,
because the profit margin is so high because of drug laws.
But the feds need a boogeyman.
So, you know, we just had El Chapo.
Yeah.
Who's it going to be next?
Have you read, have you read the book of Pablo's brother?
I've read all the books on Pablo.
Plus, I've got all of the books that have been written about Pablo in Spanish,
translated into English, because I've just written the longest book ever about Pablo,
four book series, over a thousand pages called Pablo Escobar's Story,
which completely transformed, getting all these translations completely
transformed my understanding of what happened.
And you're releasing this when?
It's already released.
I just released part three this week.
This week?
Yeah.
Oh, it's a, it's a series.
Okay.
So you just released part three.
Yeah, just released part three.
So part four is the only one remaining now.
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The, the first, my first introduction to that whole world was when I read the accountants story,
I mean, from his brother.
What did you see?
Did you, when you read that, I mean, I felt like the perspective of that book
was kind of unique to everything else, because he was the only one living,
right?
That was that close to him.
Yeah.
And that's what took me on the scent to get closer to the truth, because all the people
living close to him or working for him, his wife, his mistress, Virginia Vallejo,
his main hitman, Popeye, all those people had written books that were only in Spanish back then.
And the guys that were there when he died in charge of the operation, Carlos Castaa
wrote my confession, Don Burner wrote killing the boss, all in Spanish, still not in English.
All the truth is in the Spanish speaking world.
Now I learned this because I wrote a book called Pablo Escobar Beyond Narcos.
I did a talk in London and a Colombian woman came up to it at the end and said,
there's far more that you don't know in the Spanish speaking world.
Everything written in the English speaking world was incentivized and through the lens of
certain agendas such as the DEA, you know, the American heroes go in and kick the bad guys's
ass.
That's what Narcos has portrayed.
It's a DEA perspective.
Right.
There was an opportunity for Juan Pablo to give his input to Narcos and the DEA threatened to pull out.
So there's an agenda here.
It's the war on drugs.
The DEA are the good guys.
The US federal government is, you know, holier than thou, protecting kids from evil drug dealers
while the CIA is bringing the drugs in.
Wow, man.
That agenda must be protected at all costs to keep the war on drugs going,
but it's falling down.
All this violence we're seeing now, the social unrest,
I think the war on drugs is tearing the fabric of society apart because the profit margin,
the amount of drugs sold every year legally gets bigger.
They estimate half a trillion to a trillion dollars.
And it's the biggest opportunity in the history of the world for criminal organizations,
including intelligence agencies, to make the most profits ever out of anything.
So they're all competing.
And that's what's causing all this violence in Mexico and all the knife crime in London.
What the media isn't telling you, the majority of it is drug gangs competing
and criminals competing for the black market profits created by drug laws.
Wow.
Which is all fueled by prisons.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But look, Danny, it's time.
Yeah, it's just two hours.
I'm sorry.
I know we gotta go.
It's time for me to go and do my job while it's still light.
Yeah, you got three more interviews before you're allowed to go to bed.
Cool, man.
Thank you so much.
And tell everyone all about where to get your new books and about your new content.
Yeah.
Okay.
So if you would be kind enough to put the links in the description to explore the video.
My books are available worldwide on Amazon.
I'll send you a book, a link over to my library on my website.
You know, I really appreciate your followers, my story resonating with them so powerfully.
And it being one of the most watched videos on your channel, getting over a million views.
Huge thank you to all the people who've put positive comments.
I have been reading them down there.
And if you do, put the link into my channel as well.
Absolutely.
Really appreciate you guys clicking over and subscribing and watching some of my content.
And like I said, every week, you know, I'm interviewing someone with a hard-hitting prison
story or an ex-cop story, ex-gangsters, mafia people.
And I think some of the content will really resonate with your people.
And please don't forget to go over and support Virginia and Maria Pharma and send them a message
of love and respect and support on a day that's as important as this when Ghislaine Maxwell gets taken down.
Well, thank you so much, Sean.
You know, I really appreciate you taking the time to do this and share your stories with,
you know, with the subscribers on my channel as well.
And you're very kind and you're very interesting.
And I appreciate you.
All right, I appreciate your interest, Danny.
And let's keep this going.
Absolutely, man.
