What is the strongest argument against Bob Lazar's story that he has for the most part
kept straight for the last 35, 40 years?
Well, this, a lot of it is kept straight, I think, well, a lot of it's kept straight
because it's like telling a story, he's told it so many times, it's kind of like reading
a script, it's kind of like you just memorized your script and you rehearsed it and you know
your script.
So I don't think that, you know, it's not that hard to say that because he hasn't changed
this, it doesn't mean the story is true just because he hasn't changed it.
What makes the story true or not is whether there's, you know, supporting evidence for
things.
We've investigated S4, for example, the secret facility at Papu's Lake where he claims he
worked for this period of time or his timeline, his background, you know, what would, even
the background check thing, we talked about this issue of background checks and how he
got the background check to even have worked out there and, you know, have you looked into
the guy's background?
Did you do your own background check on him?
Me personally, all I do is just listen to podcasts about him.
I haven't done any of the real homework, I haven't looked at any like classified documents
or I haven't like subpoenaed the MIT or Los Alamos labs.
But I haven't talked to like his former, you know, associates, you know, people who are
important figures in the case.
Right.
Or what are the biggest holes that you found in his story?
Well, the biggest holes, I would say, there's a couple of them.
So one is this, the issue of how he was hired in the first place, the background, the background
check is the biggest hole because it takes normally like eight months or more to do a
thorough background check on an individual.
The background checks that people, investigators and other researchers have done on Bob Lazar,
you know, show a whole history of this guy would not have passed a background check,
especially he's friends with John Lear, who was the guy who was blowing up the whole
UFO story about the base in Area 51.
He was on George Knapp on the record a year before Bob Lazar talking about this top secret
base and saying that there was a subsection with the secret hangar complex that had 11
recovered alien discs in it.
And that was John Lear saying there was 11.
Yeah.
He said there was 11.
Bob Lazar said there was nine and, you know, later, you know, was basically confirming
John Lear's story that John Lear had already told a year before and there's just so many
elements of Bob Lazar story that we have tracked down because, you know, if it's easily classified
information on scientific level, right, like the element 115 stuff.
So that's the real big scientific thing that he supposedly came out with and there's so
many misconceptions about that as well that I'd like to spend a minute to clear up.
Okay.
So one is that, you know, elements, you know, the element number is based on proton number.
That's how many protons are in the nucleus.
So hydrogen is number one.
Hydrogen has one proton and one electron.
The electrons number balances the proton number so that has a zero charge.
They always like to be neutral.
So this issue of the protons is just, it's just addition, man.
So you just like element 115, you know, the periodic table goes up to a certain number
and then to just predict that it's going to go to higher numbers that we haven't created
yet.
We figured out back in the 1960s by a guy named Glenn Seaboard who worked at UC Berkeley
and he worked on a lot of the particle accelerator experiments that, you know, built the entire,
you know, higher half of the periodic table.
And while it's interesting, you know, he wrote an article actually in Scientific American
in 1969 and published it talking about elements, you know, the higher elements and the so-called
island of stability.
So this island of stability was known about by, you know, real physicists working at,
you know, UC Berkeley labs and other places decades before Lazar.
I mean, this is, people misunderstand and misrepresent the physics constantly.
And it's good to, it would be good to get, you know, a guy like Eric Weinstein on with
Bob Lazar.
I know that he's, Eric Weinstein has, you know, publicly accepted Joe Rogan's offer
for, you know, to have a debate because Joe Rogan put the challenge out there.
You know, can we get someone to kind of quiz this guy?
And Weinstein finally said, you know what?
I'll debate this guy and talk about, you know, physics and MIT and we'll talk about,
you know, the advanced degrees he supposedly has from MIT and magnetohydrogenomics and
see what he knows about, you know, MHD and MHD propulsion and, you know, get it quizzed
and see what he comes back with.
And, you know, what's interesting is Bob has always said that he would do a technical
interview with a group of scientists.
You know, he said that in one of the earlier interviews that he gave.
He's like, oh, I'd be happy to do this.
And then Japanese television set this up and invited him over and he never showed up.
Really?
Yeah.
This was back in like the 90s.
OK.
And, you know, so he's never given that technical debate with scientists.
He's never debated with scientists.
In fact, you know, the first time Joe Rogan had him on the podcast, he had physicist
Sean Carroll on like the next podcast and didn't ask him anything about Bob Lazar.
And I was like, why wouldn't you ask the physicists about Bob Lazar and what they have
to say about his story?
And, you know, I'll tell you the key thing of Bob's story is the element 115, which he
says is how the power source and also the anti-gravity propulsion source for how these
things fly.
And he claimed, you know, he people claim he predicted it back in 1989.
There's lots of other people who predicted it, including, you know, back in the 1960s,
the Glenn Seaborg knew that there was going to be elements up that high, you know, and
he even predicted the element, the island of stability there.
And there was actually an article that was published in Scientific American in May 1989,
which is the exact month and year that Bob Lazar first came out with his story.
And it's on page 68 of the May 1989 issue of Scientific American, and it's called Super
Heavy Elements, and it talks about the island of stability and element 115.
But it nowhere in any of this is any mention that it has anti-gravity properties or, you
know, energy, you know, production properties.
So that's the best.
A big thing we've discovered element 115 and people like the, the core bells and everyone
try to claim that that means that, you know, oh, it can, they've confirmed Bob Lazar story
because they, you know, he predicted it in 1989.
And then they discovered it years later.
So that confirmed his story.
No, it didn't.
He, he claimed that there was a stable isotope and that it had anti-gravity properties.
So now we never discovered a stable isotope, and that's one of the main arguments that's
used to dismiss it.
But it's also true that certain isotopes like hafnium, for example, or lanthanum, there's
like blurs in the periodic table where these elements can actually jump back and forth
a little bit.
And, you know, Bob Lazar kind of describes that in some of his physics, a tech, semi-technical
talks about the reactor and its components, you know, he talks about this, it jumping
up to element 116 and then back down, and that it kind of, or 14, you know, he's not
sure if it was 14 or to 14 or to 16 or not, but it jumps, it jumps around somewhere in
there and there's elements that actually do that.
And you can take these unstable elements and you can stabilize them within, you know, an
electromagnetic field, for example, like a magnetic bottle, so you can kind of, you
know, hold this unstable nuclei together so that it doesn't decay like in a normal time.
So it's possible that there may be some way to isolate and stabilize element 115 that
we haven't discovered yet.
And that, you know, so I'm not saying that it's been completely debunked, you'll almost,
you can't ever disprove a negative, it's not up for me to debunk Bob Lazar.
It's up for, you know, him and Jeremy Corbelle and George Knapp to prove that he's telling
the truth or come up with some supporting evidence for a story or documentation.
And the kind of documentation I'll be looking for hasn't come out.
So Bob Lazar, some more records of his educational background, which he claims to have these
degrees, advanced degrees and have gone to these schools.
Which there is evidence, right?
So the evidence came out, right?
It's interesting because he had a court case in 1991 and on his court documents, he stated
that he had a, his bachelor's degree was from Pacifica University, which is a correspondence
university.
And what year do you say this?
It was shut down and it was shut down in the early 90s as being a degree mill.
So this was like 91, I think was the conviction.
So it was like two years after he came out with the story.
So this place called Pacifica was selling degrees.
Yeah.
Like selling, okay.
That's where you put.
So the court case is interesting too, because apparently, you know, he had, you know, become
this whistleblower about this big top secret program that he was hired to be this senior
staff physicist on and that, you know, afterwards he was, after, you know, two years later,
he's running a brothel.
He's literally running a brothel.
That's what he gets.
Well, he wouldn't, he wasn't running the brothel.
He was, there was a madam who was running the brothel was called the Crystal Cove.
And his, he actually got arrested for setting up a CCTV camera system in the apartment complex.
And he was, they were filming and blackmailing, you know, customers of the brothel.
Is there proof that he tried to blackmail people?
It's a court case.
He pleaded guilty to it.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
You can look it up in Nevada.
Yeah.
You can look it up in Nevada.
So it's there.
And, and there's a video of it online and is even videos of George Knapp talking about
the incident, how he's like, he just, you know, brought this big scientist whistleblower
out and here goes the whole story because, you know, and apparently it didn't, it wasn't
enough to make it go away.
And a lot of people still don't know about that and that it happened.
But the court documents from that case, he lists his degree was, his bachelor's degree
was from Pacifica University, not MIT or Caltech.
He doesn't say that.
And he says that his, he had some, I don't know, he said something about University
of Cal Northridge.
I got to look up the documents from that court case, but it's on, it's on there.
You can look it up.
There's a whole website, BobLazarDeBunk.com, where people can get like a lot of these documents
and other stuff.
And other researchers have done stuff on this too, including an account on Twitter called
signals and tell.
And yeah, there's not a lot of traction online with people that are trying to pick apart
his story and like doing it successfully until I became aware of you, that I really start
to notice some of these details because, you know, people aren't looking for it because
the BobLazar story is such a fantastical story.
It's awesome.
I mean, that's what got me into researching UFOs and black projects and thinking the government
has this stuff.
That, that and, you know, movies like Independence Day in 1997, where they have that scene where
they go into the underground hangings, they say, oh, we got this from Roswell, you know.
So how, from the time you first learned about Bob, how long did it take for you to start
to question everything?
I didn't start questioning until I really started going on like forums, like above top
secret and other forums where I was really arguing in favor of the case with a lot of
more knowledgeable researchers about it.
And they, they sent me to a lot of interesting links which educated me about, you know, background
checks and BobLazar's timeline, that he borrowed a lot of money in his past, that he had a
lot of debts.
He also was apparently, you know, he said, he claimed that his clearance was revoked,
right?
About for the purpose of, he claims that his wife was having an affair with her airline
instructor.
And that's why they revoked his security clearance.
And that was because they thought it would be like psychologically traumatizing to him
and it would affect his work.
That is absolutely ridiculous, if you know the case, because he was friends with John
Lear.
I mean, he knew John Lear, he had met John Lear and was a friend of his.
He had gone there, if you read the story, so that there's two people that are left out
of the story and in Jeremy Corbell's film, and I think that it's deceptive to not mention
them or bring them into the story because they're two of the most central figures in
the BobLazar story.
And that's John Lear and Gene Huff.
And Gene Huff co-wrote the original BobLazar tapes.
It says a film produced by, he helped produce it.
So the original BobLazar tapes, the tape that started all this was produced by Gene Huff.
And in a radio interview that I have saved and I put on my channel, Gene Huff claims
that he met BobLazar because BobLazar was running a photo processing business at the
time in Las Vegas.
And that's what he was listed as on court documents.
He listed his occupation as a photo processor.
So he had the means to fake that W2 form and the ID badge.
So those are the only two documents that Bob's produced in support of his case.
A W2 form and an ID badge.
Yeah.
So the W2 form has his first wife's social security number on it, we found.
That was the weirdest thing.
So that was definitely faked.
He didn't even put his own social security, he put his first wife's social security number
on the damn thing.
And then they changed it in other versions, but we have the original that he gave and
it has his wife, his first wife's social security number on it, which he was married to a woman
named Carol Nadine Esslinger or Carol Nadine Strong.
She was 10 years older than him.
They married in I think like 78 or 79, moved to Lowell.
And he was still married with her, I believe, when he moved from California to Los Alamos.
But sometime in the middle of that is when he met this other younger girl, Jackie, which
her real name is Tracy, they call her Jackie.
But he married this, he started hanging out with this younger girl and apparently married
her, but he didn't get a real marriage certificate.
He just like had a wedding and married her while he was still married to the other woman.
And then the other woman found out and was so upset by it, she allegedly committed suicide.
And then this is all documented.
And then Carol Nadine Strong, we looked up her history, the woman that he was married
to at the time he would have had these background checks and security clearances.
So the government hired him to work on the most top secret project the US has ever known.
Then they would have obviously looked into this part of his background and found these
holes in his story.
I mean, these were issues that he had.
It looks more like he was having an affair with his wife, you know, because he married
two women at the same time, this younger girl, and then his older wife commits suicide.
And then he ends up marrying the younger wife legally on paper a couple months later.
And his first wife allegedly committed suicide before he was hired to work at site S4?
Yeah, this was before.
This was how early?
This was 1986.
1986.
So this was two years before.
Two years prior, two or three years prior to him coming out with this story in 1989.
Right.
So 1986 is when, you know, he meets this younger girl, moves to Los Alamos, and then he breaks
up with, you know, and breaks her heart and she ends up committing suicide.
They like tailpipe in the garage, they found her in the car or whatever.
I don't know if he's the one that found her or what the whole story is there.
But it's certainly very, you know, peculiar and bizarre and strange.
And definitely a guy wouldn't have gotten a background check because his former wife
was arrested, was involved with a Hell's Angel murder, according to some doc, some newspaper
articles and stuff that we recently found from Las Vegas.
So she was from Las Vegas and moved up there.
Apparently she's connected with someone that worked at Fairchild Industries and that's
how Bob worked there out in California before he moved to Los Alamos.
And he knew a bunch of other guys like Jim Tagliani who worked at Tonopah Test Range.
And Jim Tagliani knew about S4.
Who is Jim Tagliani?
He was one of Bob Lazar's friends.
So he's a guy that was friends with Bob Lazar and John Lear and all them.
And he worked out at Tonopah Test Range at a real place called Site 4.
There's a difference.
There's a real site for it, Tonopah Test Range.
That's Area 52.
So Area 51's in Nevada near Las Vegas.
And if you go west from Area 51, you'll fly right over Tonopah on your way to Edwards
Air Force Base.
And that was called Site 4.
There was a section out there called Site 4 and it was the ECCM, which is electronic
counter-countermeasures radar setup.
So they would build mock enemy radar systems like Russian radar and then they would figure
out how to spoof or jam those radar systems.
Or the signals and stuff.
And this was the origins of the stealth days where they were working on...
Right.
I mean, the stealth program was a little bit before that, but in the early 80s.
But they were still doing a lot of stealth research and stuff out there at the time,
which is also interesting because there was another Site 4 that we found, which was at
Plant 42 in Palmdale, which is where they made the B-2 Spirit Bombers.
So there's two classified sites named Site 4 in one at Tonopah, one at Palmdale where
they're building the B-2.
And then Bob comes out with this fantastic story about this place called Site 4 where
there were reverse engineering alien saucers and stuff.
And that's the same story that, again, John Lear told a year before on George Knapp.
So it's kind of interesting.
You have this timeline where Bob Lazar moves to, you know, the wife thing, he moves to
Los Alamos, he's living there, and then he meets this new girlfriend, something happens
at Los Alamos.
He apparently only worked...
He did work at Los Alamos.
So we've been able to confirm that, right?
But he only worked at Los Alamos for like eight months that we can tell, that we can
figure out.
And apparently he was fired from Los Alamos for using company equipment to work on his
jet car, which he was in...
He was already in...
There was a monitor article from Los Alamos from 1982 on the jet car article.
So he was in Los Alamos with his jet car in 1982 doing stuff.
So you can get a little bit of a scope of the time period.
And if you'd really chased it down the whole timeline, there's no room for him to have
gotten the degrees, there's no evidence that he got the degrees.
And then him listing on the court documents that he didn't really have the degrees.
He had a Pacifica University, which is like a mail order, you know, a fake degree.
And he's...
That's possibly a mail order degree.
They were doing that.
It doesn't necessarily mean he paid for it.
There's no proof he actually paid them, right?
So I mean, you could, by some stretch of imagination, just assume that the government just tried
to put a bunch of dirt on this guy and made up all this stuff, that it's all made up by
the government, right?
So then at the end of the day, if you just get rid of all the circumstantial evidence
about the shows that the guy just may not be who he says he is, may have been involved
with people like John Lear, who's selling the same story on George Knapp, getting tons
of views on it.
So here's Bob Lazar working for the photo processing company for Gene Huff.
And Gene Huff says that the first time they met John Lear, that Bob Lazar went over there
to do an appraisal on John's house.
And they went to do an appraisal because Gene Huff ran an appraisal business and he was
working, that's how he met Bob Lazar because he was his photo guy.
So Bob Lazar would go there, take the pictures, process the photos, build and do the ads for
the paper and stuff, and that he would hold a tape measure.
And this was when supposedly before, this is the guy they hired to be the senior staff
physicist to work on, to figure out how this other thing that our top scientists couldn't
figure out how this reactor worked.
So we had to bring in this guy to figure this out.
But does it make sense?
Does that make sense?
But is it, it's true though, this guy, first of all, the first time Bob, from what I understand,
the first time he met with George Knapp and they did those interviews, he had to do a
lot of convincing to get him to do that.
And then he tells the story of how he actually interviewed him, did this whole story.
And before he published it, Bob called him and said, no, I don't want to do it.
Like he had a change of heart.
He didn't want to publish it.
He didn't want to go live with it.
And George Knapp said that he like wrestled with him over the tapes or something like
he described some sort of like a physical altercation.
We had to grab it from Bob and fucking published it.
So so Bob, like, and what is there to gain for him?
He hasn't made any money off this.
He hasn't.
That's what he claims.
He's never made any money off of it.
That's what he says.
All the Bob was our tapes back in the back of UFO magazines and stuff for 30 bucks a
pot back in the 90s.
And I know they sold quite a bit of them.
So I know that he made some at least some money off it.
I've heard that, you know, Jeremy Corbell made didn't make what he thought he would,
but he made some decent money off the off the film that he put out.
And I've heard that he paid, you know, Bob's wife or some back channel like so Bob actually
did get paid for that.
But I again, I have no evidence to confirm that.
But I'm just I'm just I would love to, you know, do some more investigation into that
and find out because it would be real easy for someone to just order, you know, a whole
bunch of stuff from Bob's business, United Nuclear, right?
You know, it would be real easy for Jeremy Corbell to order, you know, $200,000 worth
of scientific equipment from United Nuclear.
And then United Nuclear just simply not deliver the equipment.
You know, there's other ways to wash that money.
And Bob has the means and knows how I mean, he started United Nuclear because he ran a
fireworks show like show called Desert Blast, where they were basically, you know, invite
a bunch of people and sell tickets to go watch, you know, these massive fireworks and bomb
shows out in the middle of the desert, where they'd blow up all kinds of stuff.
And that was during the days when, you know, it was getting harder, you used to be able
to order ammonium nitrate and other stuff right in the mail, you know, and they started
putting a stop to that.
So you had to be a registered company in order to order those chemicals and get them.
So Bob Lazar created United Nuclear and started, you know, ordering those chemicals and selling
them.
So he started out the whole thing selling like, and they actually got kicked out of Las Vegas
because they were, you know, selling all this glassware and it was, you know, winding up
in all these meth labs all over Vegas.
And they kicked them out of Vegas and he had to move the company to Michigan.
So there's a lot of history behind how Bob's gotten the money.
And you know, there's also these companies where, you know, if he was doing it, you would
never know that he got paid for it if he did.
And I'm not sure I would do it either if I wasn't getting paid for it, what he's done,
you know, but again, that's besides the point.
What could he be getting paid for besides selling these tapes for 30 bucks a pop and helping
Jeremy make a documentary and selling some fucking souvenirs on his new United Nuclear
website.
I mean, that's not like, it's a lot of trouble for like that.
It seems like he would be trying to make a lot more money off such an endeavor like this.
You know, and he hasn't done any podcast other than Joe Rogan's podcast.
It's interesting because like it's almost like, why would he pick?
He hasn't done any documentaries either besides one with Jeremy Corbel.
So why would he, why would he only work with Jeremy Corbel or only work with Joe Rogan?
I would imagine because I would imagine because he doesn't want the attention and he's got
people like Joe who are fascinated by the topic and he's got people like Jeremy who
are also fascinated by the topic who are pushing this guy to do this, like, come on, do this.
He's like, no, I don't want anything to do with it.
You could tell when he went on Joe's podcast, he was like very hesitant.
He had a fucking headache, whatever.
And he is not like he was happy to be there.
Hey, happy to be here, Joe.
Let's talk about fucking aliens.
He was, he seemed like he didn't want to be there.
It also seemed like Jeremy was his like handler for the whole thing.
Yeah.
Because he didn't, and then he got the migraine.
And there's a lot of questions he couldn't answer.
And why isn't he doing more press?
It just seems like he knows the story is a lie and he doesn't want to do more
press because he just knows that it's going to get found out.
If the more time he spends on there, all he needs to do is get on a show with a guy
like me instead of someone who doesn't know anything about the case, as long as
he's talking to people who don't know anything about the case or people who want
to believe in the case and support the case without question.
Like Jeremy Corbell, you know, convinced that it's real and, you know, that guys
like me are part of this, you know, big organization to like shut down the truth.
And it's like, well, what's the truth, man?
What physics do you have, bro?
I've interviewed, you know, real senior staff physicists.
I can show you what a real senior staff physicist looks like and compare that to Bob
Lazar and I can show you what real physics programs and real SAPs and the
sort of research and what it looks like because we've I've studied these things
and I've, you know, interviewed the people who worked on them.
We've had them on my podcast.
So I I tend to question guys like Bob Lazar and especially that's that's one
of the main things is the education, the fact that he lie about being a physicist
and having these credentials and then not being able to back it up is the biggest
thing to me that and I don't know when he's on these shows and on the like these
tapes and these interviews.
Is there any any red flags in his language about physics?
Yeah, well, I'm sure if any physicist who's listened to Bob Lazar talk knows
that this guy is not like a real physicist.
He's not, you know, he's not doing, you know, real equate.
It's some of the most basic, you know, physics stuff.
And then he'll throw in a bunch of other stuff like the gravity, a wave and B wave idea.
I've had some people on the podcast that have tried to analyze that in different,
you know, ways.
But again, it's it there's no.
There's no core physics there.
And when you talk about anti gravity, right?
First, if you can't have anti gravity without negative mass, you need to have negative mass.
If you're not producing negative mass, then you're not producing anti gravity.
And what he has is the most massive element you have.
So he's not producing negative mass.
He's producing, you know, supermass.
So it's it's the opposite direction.
It's kind of like a misdirection in all all fronts.
I feel like it's I feel like it's intentional disinformation like that was put out.
It's almost like why was, you know, John Lear telling the story?
And then Bob Lazar suddenly gets, you know, meets John Lear and then gets,
you know, hired to go work out there, you know, despite that he knows John Lear.
And then as soon as he gets working out there, what does he do?
He turns and goes and blabs to his friends and brings him up on the mountain,
you know, with up to the peak, you know, because that's what they did.
Apparently they brought him up to the peak.
And that's when, you know, he got the calls and they revoked his clearance and stopped.
But apparently up at the peak, what they were filming was either Janet flights,
the incoming, you know, flight airline flights coming into the base,
or they were filming some, you know, some of the early Star Wars
SDI program tests on these plasma and laser induced plasma technologies.
And, you know, they have proton beams and other types of beams
that they could generate balls of plasma in the sky.
Right. I want to get into that.
I want to talk a little bit more about this first.
One of the things that I noticed, one of the links you sent me was a medium article
about one of the guys who ran security clearance for Bob at
what was it supposed to be, Area 51 or S4?
Apparently, what was the guy's name again?
Right. So Jeremy Corbel put this whole thing out about this Mike Figg pen guy.
He talked about him on he talked about him on the Joe Rogan podcast
and touted him as this ultimate whistleblower proof that, you know,
Bob Lazar really worked out at this place and got the security clearance.
But honestly, when you do the security background check on Bob, he doesn't check out.
None of that stuff's mentioned in any of this.
No proof is given.
No video.
He didn't record the interview that he did with this guy.
He didn't, you know, record audio.
He didn't think, you know, he records himself in his in his apartment,
you know, sitting there with no shoes on for hours in the in his film.
But he couldn't, you know, just talking to George Knapp on the phone or Bob Lazar.
But he can't he couldn't have recorded that one conversation.
That's way more important than any of those.
So who wrote this article?
This is on medium.
And the title is Bob Lazar, Mike Thigpin and the clearance investigation.
This guy is signals intelligence.
And I'm not actually sure what his real name is.
It almost sounds like this guy Victor that I know, but I'm not sure if it's him.
So I want to figure out that there's a clip in here.
Go scroll down.
There's a excerpt from an interview with Mike Thigpin.
Who does it say conducted this interview with Mike Thigpin?
Is this the guy who wrote the article?
Yeah, so the guy who wrote the article actually, you know,
reached out to these people and found a lot of these people.
So this there's a lot of people that have been doing, you know,
back their own background investigations on Bob Lazar.
So they went out and actually found people who worked with him at Los Alamos
and people that worked with him, you know, for all these things and interviewed him
and asked them everything they knew about the guy, you know, just to try to get a
whole big picture of it.
So this guy, I'm going to read a little part of this article.
It says, I spoke with Mike Thigpin in August of 2021 to confirm Corbell's
account of their conversations.
When I asked if he had any recollection of Mr.
Lazar or conducting a background investigation into him, Mike Thigpin said,
it's possible I don't remember him.
No, I only got knowledge of him where I recall it after he got into the news.
I did stop and pause and listen when they threw my name into his story.
The author asks, you didn't remember Mr.
Lazar? As far as you were aware, did you not conduct a background or clearance
investigation on him?
Thigpin, as far as I recall, I did so many of them.
I, if I did his background, I'm not saying I did it all, but if I did, I don't
recall. The author says, did you not tell Mr.
Corbell that you remembered Bob?
Thigpin says, personally, no, I don't know Bob.
I don't recall meeting him.
If I told him I did, it was an error.
I certainly didn't mean to say or apply that to Mr.
Corbell. It should be noted that Mr.
Thigpin readily agreed to allow this publication of this interview.
Gene Huff, okay.
Well, now, now play that little YouTube clip real quick where they're talking
about Mike Thigpin.
This is the guy just to give people context.
This is who this is in, I think, Joe Rogan's interview with, yeah, the only
one he did with Bob.
So Mike Thigpin was the guy that did the security clearances to go to the
bait, one of the guys that was.
And this is the guy that you work with.
He said he did.
Right.
And, and George Knapp, you know, George didn't believe him.
George put him through four polygraph tests, right?
He tried to see, man, this is a big risk.
It sounds interesting, but let's see if he's telling the truth.
One of the things was Bob said, there's a guy named Mike Thigpin.
He did security clearances for the base and that's a weird name.
It's a very specific for 30 years.
George found this guy in this weird department that he didn't even know.
It was Mike Thigpin.
The guy wouldn't talk to me ghosted him, totally ghosted him for 30 years.
Used Facebook and Google image match through his children.
I was able to find him after 30 years.
And I talked to him three times on the phone.
He lives on the East Coast.
He almost went on camera with me.
Confirmed that he did security clearances for the base in 1989.
Confirmed he remembers Bob Lazar.
Yeah, well, it's interesting that there's no evidence provided for that.
And there's other guys that talk to him that didn't get that story.
And again, I've done my own background investigation on him.
And I just don't think he's the kind of guy that would work out at a place like this.
And let's let's compare him with someone that that did.
Look up Dr. Bernard H. H. A. I. S. C. H.
OK, here's one more thing as well.
One of the biggest things that I believe that have been confirmed was Bob describes
that hand scanner that to get into the base, he had to put his hand on this machine
that measured like the length of the thing, the biometrics of the bones, the bones
and the fingers, and that turned out to be legit.
Well, we'll get into that in a second.
But yes, the hand scanners thing we found that apparently was in Jeremy Corbell's
favorite film, which is Close Encounters of the Third Kind, which came out
a decade before Bob Lazar story.
So there's again, any anything that was class of claimed classified
that was from Bob Lazar story, every single thing that he says was classified.
We found we found in sources unclassified public sources before that.
I can I can name every single piece of classified intel that he's ever spoken about.
I can cite that in sources that predate his disclosure.
So he's not a whistleblower of anything.
All this stuff was in public domain.
It was all unclassified out there for anyone to find and put this put these pieces together.
I mean, the story about the scientists who cut in the reactor and supposedly died.
You know, there was a movie that came out, a movie that came out that same year
called Fat Man and Little Boy.
Go look it up.
And in the movie, it tells the story of the Los Alamos scientists.
The guy's name is Lewis Slotin, S-L-O-T-I-N.
And he's the scientist that cut into a reactor during the Manhattan Project.
Well, he didn't cut in the they had a beryllium half shell and they were doing
they had the demon core inside of it, which is a plutonium core
that they used in the in the atomic bomb, the first Trinity test.
And they had a beryllium hash on the beryllium is a is a neutron reflector.
So what that does is all these neutrons that are given off, it reflects those.
So when they put this half shell over it, it reflects all those neutrons around.
And what neutrons are is a big, heavy particle that has no charge.
So if you want to smash atoms apart, you know, you don't use a proton
because a proton is positively charged.
It can't get anywhere near the nucleus because they repel each other because of the charge.
But neutrons have no charge.
So you get a bunch of these fast moving neutrons rolling around inside this chamber.
And suddenly they start smashing atoms up and releasing more neutrons and more neutrons.
And it's a chain reaction.
And they created the first one with they were they were trying to measure
the criticality with this half shell experiment.
And they killed three, they killed two scientists.
And that's a real story.
That's the only it's a it's a story where, you know, it seems to match
pretty closely with his descriptions of the the reactor core.
They look a lot like this demon core and the half shell that they were using.
And in fact, the experiment they were using, he was using a screwdriver
and the screwdriver slipped and it fell and it went super critical
because the screwdriver was holding that gap up.
And when that gap fell, it went super critical and he quickly grabbed the thing
and pulled it off, burnt the crap out of his hand and totally irradiated himself.
But he saved the lives of the other nine scientists in the room.
And but sacrificed himself.
And for that, he was like, given all these awards and stuff.
But he died a couple of days later, a radiation poisoning.
It was brutal, man, the pictures and stuff.
But that's a real story about what is this guy's name again?
Lewis Slotin.
Lewis Slotin S L O T I N.
Yeah, that's the dude.
That's fine. Look at the pictures of that thing.
That's the demon core right there.
So they built a new reactor to run this experiment.
And it has a mechanical holder for the half shell that that's on top.
So it's lowered and raised mechanically so they can do it from a separate room,
a safe distance away, you know, so that they so that they can run this experiment
with precision and it's not doesn't have that element of human error with the screwdriver.
And the new reactor core design looks a lot like Bob Lazar's Element 115 reactor.
It looks almost just like it, actually.
It's it's like if you were just to modify a couple of things on the.
The new.
What is it?
It'll be called a beryllium half shell criticality experiment.
That's a tongue twister. Yeah. Yeah, I know.
Beryllium half shell criticality.
Yeah, as the scientists that were in the room.
That he saved and they're distant.
They had he had them draw their distance on the ground.
So is this supposed to be what he was describing
when he was describing the reactor inside of the flying saucer?
Well, I think he took pieces of what he learned from.
He said it was like a basketball.
He said it was like a basketball.
This is on display at the Los Alamos History Museum, Natural History.
So there's exhibits on all this stuff that he would have seen
if he was spent time in Los Alamos.
So he would have, you know, he could have adapted this stuff to make up a story.
You know, as all I'm saying is that's what it sounds like to me
because there's no verifiable intel that's come out of anywhere
in the past 30 years on, you know, programs that were working on this kind of stuff
or even interested in this kind of stuff.
The scientists that were working on it were,
you know, a couple of these German guys that were working on CERN,
you know, particle accelerators at CERN.
They were continuing Glenn Seaborg's work.
Glenn Seaborg was again the guy who predicted this island stability.
He discovered a huge number of the elements on the periodic table
at Berkeley Labs at the Berkeley Accelerator.
So he pioneered a lot of, you know, physical chemistry research in those early days.
But going back quickly to that hand scanner.
Yeah, the hand scanner.
So so that was in close encounters.
It was in electronics magazines.
We found it.
We found numerous pre-1989 sources for that hand scanner that, you know,
would have, you know, anyone could have known about those.
So but he said specifically that that's what he used to get into Area 51.
Yeah, they used the opening sequence of close encounters.
Go watch the opening sequence of close encounters.
When the guy goes into the top secret facility, there's the same hand scanner
right there.
And and Jeremy Corbell said in interviews that his favorite movies close encounters.
But how could he have missed it?
How would Bob know that that was specifically in the fuck in Area 51, though?
Because it's in close encounters.
They oh, they're filming in Area 51 is what you're saying in close encounters.
They're filming a top secret facility that the alien stuff's going on
and they have to get into right in the opening sequence of the movie.
Yeah, but that doesn't mean that's that's the exact machine they use.
It's the exact machine.
It's that exact machine in the picture.
I understand it is the exact machine.
But how would Bob know that that is in fact what they have at Area 51?
Just because it was in a movie.
Do they have it in Area 51?
I mean, it was one of the high techs.
Yes, there was proof there was a photo taken.
One of the security guards had provided a photo of one of these things at Area 51.
Maybe you can find it.
Maybe that's the photo there.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor, Verso.
Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed
I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on
the show is nutritional scientist and neuroscientist Dr.
Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this stuff.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold a potential to increase longevity.
The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells or old
damaged cells that linger beyond their useful life.
These zombie cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process,
causing things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia,
and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy,
meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with new
ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a powerful blend
of synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes
like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting
lower inflammation and natural cardio protective functions while boosting
protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermidine, lutolyn, and
dihydrocorsatin, which play key roles in the control of gene expression
and are essential for cell growth and proliferation, specifically when it
comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function, skin health, vision,
and the immune system.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to
save 15% on your order.
I linked it all below.
Now back to the show.
There's other sources that he could have learned about it from though.
It doesn't mean that he learned about it at Area 51.
Can you find a photo like proof of hand scanner at Area 51?
Maybe we can find that.
Again, another thing about the security at Area 51, right?
So Bob's security badge that he put, it says MJ12 on it, okay?
That's the security badge that he used to get into work.
Now, it should have said Wacken Hut on it because Wacken Hut does do
the security for Area 51.
And if you see other Area 51 ID badges, they're actually issued by Wacken Hut
and they don't have, they don't look anything like Bob Lazar's ID badge.
So he got that wrong.
And then I get mentioned that the only other piece of documentation
he's provided is the W2 form, which had his first wife's social security number on it.
So can you make any sort of argument that he is telling the truth?
I tried this one, right?
So let's just say this hypothesis has come up a few times, right?
So let's say that, you know, Bob Lazar meets John Lear,
starts learning about all this UFO stuff, you know, seeing the popularity
that John Lear is getting and that they they're watching John Lear.
Because they obviously they knew John Lear was the only one talking about
he was talking vocally about Area 51 back when no one else was.
He had pictures of like a captured Russian mig that we were, you know,
basically running tests on at Area 51.
He had a picture of it on the tarmac that he went out there and took before
they had the security at the base even set up.
And, you know, he's like one of the one of the those original guys.
So Bob, Bob Lazar meets John Lear and then
maybe, you know, he was recruited and maybe they said, you know, we're going to
plant a seat, we're going to plant a disinfo pill on John Lear and we're going
to we're going to pretend to hire Bob Lazar and we're going to bring him out
to a hangar that we're going to set up and we're going to bring a bunch of
eight, you know, AZ nine Avro cars.
I mean, VZ nine Avro cars and some of the old Alfred C. Loading.
What?
OK, so Alfred C. Loading.
Look up Alfred C. C. L O E D D I N G.
This guy designed tons of flying saucers for the military between the 1940s and
1950s at Wright Patterson Air Force Base.
He was an engineer that built and designed tons of flying saucer,
saucer shape and other weird shaped aircraft.
L O E D D I N G.
How did you find this guy?
That's the dude right there on the left.
Yeah, so you can look up a number of his patents and a number of these craft.
Is that there's that a picture of the craft that he designed right there on the
far left? Yeah, that's one of them.
He I mean, there's tons of them.
There's over a hundred different models that I believe he designed and flew over
the years, maybe not a hundred.
I don't know the exact number, but those are the blueprints of those things.
There's a whole secret chapter of classified aviation, airframe design
experimentation that went on back in the 40s and 50s that the US Air Force was
experimenting with that nobody knows about.
So some of these relics might still be around today.
Some of these craft.
Imagine they got a bunch of these in a hangar, put blocks on the doors and then
bring Bob in there and tell him that they're working on alien technology in the
place, dress up a couple of midgets or some kids in dummy suits and stuff.
And then but then he says he actually worked on that sport model craft.
And he was inside of it.
There was no seams.
So there's another couple of things that we did.
So from his descriptions of all that, right?
And his his descriptions.
Michael Schrat is a researcher I work with.
It's Michael S. S. C. H. R. A. T. T.
And what he does is he takes UFO case reports and he's he's actually he works
for an aerospace company as a graphic designer.
So he does 3D models of planes.
So he'll take UFO reports and then he'll build a 3D model of the of the actual
craft based on the sighting and he has a whole archive of all these.
Yeah, that's like a big chart of all the all the ones he's he's produced over the years.
So he takes all these UFO reports and he draws scale model diagrams very precise
based on the descriptions of all these craft that you know are described.
So he takes the Lazar saucer and take some of the descriptions that Bob gave of how
tall he was when he went under it and tries to match up those dimensions to see
how figure out how big this thing is.
And when he did that with the Bob Lazar sport model saucer, he found all kinds
of like problems with the dimensions that he wouldn't have been able to stand
under it in those places that he said he did.
If it was the size that he described.
An interesting thing about that saucer, that sport model flying saucer that Bob
Lazar talked about is that it looks a lot like Georgia Dampskies craft
or the Billy Meyer craft or even before that.
So Billy Meyer and Billy Meyer was like the 70s and the Billy Meyer UFO.
He was faking all these UFO photos got caught and they look just like Bob Lazar's,
you know, sport model saucer.
But but there's an earlier case from the 50s called Otis Carr.
If you look up XTC
01 Otis Carr.
And you'll find this fit this guy.
He was he was trying to he was a UFO hoaxer trying to sell
UFOs back in the fifties.
Yeah, O T I S C A R R.
See how it doesn't like you will not find it unless you know what you're looking for.
OK, here we go. Look at this.
Look at those diagrams down there.
Yeah, that's that one right there.
So look at the saucer that he built in the 1950s and got a bunch of money to try
to build an anti gravity company based on an inertial gyroscopes.
And he built ended up building an amusement park out of all the stuff.
Click on that video.
And there's a bunch of patents on these these UFOs.
Open that on YouTube to click on that link.
Yeah, people have seen these these saucer patents get passed around
every once in a while, people talk about them and it's this this old.
You know, yeah, or even levitation.
How long is this these principles as
Graviton inertial lift is this Billy Carson or grab a few before it's effect.
No, it's not almost sounds like you know, Billy.
Yeah, I've seen him on your show.
I've heard him before circular foil craft.
There it is. Yeah, it looks just like the sports model.
And that's from that.
So like this all this UFO lore that you can trace back like all the stuff to
and it kind of looks like Bob Lazar, you know, could have borrowed a lot of this
stuff, but it's also possible that maybe, you know, a counterintelligence group
took all this and put it together.
You know, like you got guys like Richard Doty, you know, I don't know if you know
that is Doty's this guy who worked for US Air Force OSI, which is the Office of
Special Investigations.
And his job was to feed, you know, people
disinformation to try to throw them off the case if they got too close to top secret
programs.
There was this guy named Paul Benowitz is a whole movie on this called Mirage Men.
And this guy, Paul Benowitz, you know, he convinced Paul Benowitz that, you know,
he wasn't seeing top secret craft going in and out of, you know, the Air Force base
when he lived next to he convinced him that it was he was seeing aliens.
And they even beamed, you know, fake messages through his audio, you know,
his receiver and radio equipment to make him think that he was being, you know,
contacted and, you know, seeing aliens.
And the guy went crazy.
You know, they try to tell him that, you know, hey, look, I none of this was real.
I had to do this, you know, Doty tried to tell him that it wasn't real.
And he didn't believe Doty.
He wanted he couldn't he was just got deep down the rabbit hole and commit
suicide. That's the Paul Benowitz story.
And but it goes to show you the lengths that the US Air Force will go to to keep
their classified programs a secret.
And it's interesting that mentioned the two site fours that were classified
programs that, you know, were other facilities.
And then they talk about this place called site four in Papus Lake, where we've
never found evidence of anything.
There's no evidence that there's we had a guy.
This guy gave Zeifman.
He actually flew over the base in like Christmas time.
It's like they shut down that the no fly zone so you can actually fly like real
close to through that area.
So he got real close with a super, you know,
telescopic lens and a real high def, you know, 4K camera.
And we got the highest detailed pictures of Papus Lake ever.
And George Knapp put this interview out.
He showed it.
But then once he realized that it disconfirmed the story and didn't
confirm it, he quietly like pulled the story back and it disappeared.
And it's like that with everything, George and George like he'll report on all
this stuff that debunks Bob, but then he'll hide it or pull it back.
And it just disappears in the background.
But later on, if some debunker confronts him, he can say, oh, I already reported
on that and we already covered that.
You know, like it's kind of it's just kind of deceptive.
I think that, you know, he's never he's done some of the best debunkings on
Bob Lazar because he's had to confront all this like contrary evidence to the case.
But all of it's buried.
Has he ever debated anyone like you?
No, they don't do debates.
Then they would never.
They would never.
He Corbel did one debate.
OK, he did a debate on Bob Lazar with Stanton Freedman.
All right, it's out there.
And Stan Freedman just mopped the floor with him.
Who is Stanton Freedman?
So Stan Freedman was a nuclear submarine guy who got really big into UFOs after
seeing one, you know, for, I believe, I don't know if he saw one, but he got
super into UFOs and was one of the best, you know, science researchers out there,
you know, doing early scientific work in, you know, trying to understand flying
saucers and stuff.
But, you know, he wasn't really a he says he's a nuclear physicist, but he was
actually like a nuclear engineer or something.
I don't think he wasn't like super good at physics.
He wasn't like as good as some of the other other scientists I've met or talked to.
So he's an interesting guy, but, you know, he got pretty far.
But he didn't, you know, it's unfortunate.
He wasn't alive for the last he died very, he died, I think, a couple of years back,
maybe 2012 or something.
What was the what part of that debate stood out to you the most?
The one thing that stood out the most was when
Corbell's response, you know, to when Stanton cornered him on the whole issue of
him lying about his education, Corbell's response was, oh, come on, you've never
lied to get a girl or that he lied.
He basically he lied to get the job or lied to get the job.
You know, he lied on his resume to get the job.
And, you know, so I don't know, it's kind of hard to lie in your resume with a
you know, because you have to if you're a senior staff physicist, as I mentioned,
well, I didn't mention that.
Let's let's bring up Bernard Hayes again, because I wanted to get into that.
Bernard Hayes has what's called a CV or curriculum vitae.
And that's what any, you know, published
scientist is going to have a bunch of work that they've worked on.
Now, this guy was a senior staff physicist.
He worked at Lockheed Martin Advanced Aerospace Concepts Department
from 1979 to 1999.
Talk more directly into that thing.
Yeah. So to 1999.
And he worked on a bunch of classified physics programs as a senior staff
physicist, and this is what, you know, a real resume would look like for someone
who would they recruit and hire to these types of programs.
Bob Lazar does not have a CV.
He claims to have a master's degree from MIT.
And he claims that his thesis was an MHD or Magneto hydrodynamics, which is a form
of propulsion where, you know, it's like that when you ionize air and make it plasma
and then use magnets to move that plasma, that's Magneto hydrodynamics.
OK.
So you can use it for propulsion and,
you know, which is why he claimed that's what his degree was in.
That would give him credibility to have, you know, actually done the thing that he
did or get the position out there, even though Element 115 and the high end,
you know, nuclear physics is really a separate issue from Magneto hydrodynamics.
It's a completely different fields.
But
I don't know, you look at guys like this and you compare them to Bob Lazar and I'm
like, well, you know, why would they hire Bob Lazar?
You know, why would they need Bob Lazar when they have dudes like this working on
this stuff? You know, now, what did Bob Lazar say specifically about MIT?
What did he say?
His level of education was at MIT.
A master's degree.
He said he had a master's degree.
He said he graduated in 1982.
OK. OK.
Which was the same year that, according to the Los Alamos monitor article,
he moved to Los Alamos from California.
So if he was in Los Alamos, did he move to Los Alamos and then Los Alamos sent him
to MIT because that's kind of like what he changed the story.
But yeah, that's how he that's how he filled in like the holes in the timeline
saying that, you know, oh, Los Alamos sent him to this, you know, program to do
a speedy master's degree in MHD, which apparently never wrote a thesis paper for
because there's no record of his thesis paper.
That's what he says.
The government scrubbed, right?
They try to scrub everything out of his life.
How could you scrub that?
It's published in journals and then other other, you know, there's other
scientists in that field who read every paper.
If like if I'm in Magneto hydrodynamics, if a new paper comes out on MHD,
I'm reading it and I'm like, oh, who's Robert Lazar?
And you remember these things.
So nobody's ever heard of him in the field.
There's no record of his thesis, you know, anywhere.
He didn't keep a copy of it.
You know, there's none of that.
So so there's there's lots of things like that that are hard to say.
Like, well, he says the government deleted all the records.
How could they delete, you know, every yearbook issued to every student who
graduated in 1982?
So there's no yearbook or anything like this.
There's absolutely zero proof he was ever at MIT.
Yeah, that's all we take is a yearbook picture.
You know, there's not one thing there's no proof, you know.
And that's why Eric Weinstein recently, you know, I think he's starting to catch
on because he challenged Bob Lazar to a debate.
He said, well, Joe Rogan asked me if I debate Bob Lazar and he hadn't really
looked into the story at the time.
But I guess now he has and he's, you know, wants to, you know, get into the MIT
and what what physics, you know, who put physicists?
Do you know, you know, because he was asked one time in 1993 in Rachel Novata,
it was the last Q&A session that Bob Lazar ever gave publicly.
And he was asked at that Q&A session by Tom Mahood.
Oh, you know, you claim that the government deleted your your your educational records.
You know, could you kind of could you try to reconstruct some of that history?
Could you name, you know, some of your professors from Caltech or MIT?
He said, oh, sure.
You know, I guess, you know, Dr.
Duxler and Dr.
Hosenfelder is what Bob says in the interview.
And he says that Duxler was from Caltech and Hosenfelder was from MIT.
And couldn't find anyone in the whole registry with that name.
So Stan looked up, you know, Duxler in the whole, you know, APS, you know,
has all the all the anyone who's a physics teacher or a student, you know,
gets into the American Physical Society or APS and you're listed under there.
I'm enlisted under there. You can look me up.
And
he looked up Duxler and found that there was one
professor Duxler who worked at Pierce Junior College in Woodland Hills,
California, which is where Bob Lazar lived after high school next to a rocket
engineer named Eugene Gluhareff, who actually built those rockets that he's on
the bike, the jet bike with, you know, he's got the rocket bike and the rocket cars.
So those are Gluhareff pressure jet engines.
They're not actually rocket engines.
They're extremely inefficient and extremely loud.
And
the
yes, that that bike was built by his neighbor.
He lived in Woodland Hills, California.
That's where the articles from it talks about him there.
Yeah. Yeah. Eugene Gluhareff and he was a helicopter.
He worked for Sikorsky helicopters as well.
So he's an interesting guy.
And yeah, Bob Lazar lived in Woodland Hills, California, went to Pierce Junior
College and then Stan Freeman went and looked it up and found records that he
actually attended classes there and asked Dr. Duxler to look in his records and said,
yeah, he did have a student by the name of Bob Lazar, Robert Lazar in one of his classes.
So, yes, it's it's a fact that he did go to Pierce Junior College.
And if you can go to MIT and go to Caltech, you don't go to Pierce Junior College.
Right. But what he says, you don't go to community college if you get into MIT and Caltech.
Right. But I think he claimed that he was sent to MIT by who by parts of the government,
whoever he was working for at to learn more about some of this technology that he was studying.
That's what I believe that he claimed that could be wrong there.
That's possible.
But then again, you know, would there be records of him being in Cambridge at some
some time interval and there'd be he'd have first hand knowledge of things like around
Cambridge, he'd have knowledge of people that he worked with or was there with,
you know, and then some people say, I can't remember any of my teachers or any of
my professors from college and this and that.
I was like, you don't remember your academic advisor?
Like if you're in a program like this, I can remember all my teachers from high school.
Like I ran into one yesterday, actually.
You know, it's the thing about him is he doesn't smell like he passes the sniff test.
He doesn't appear to be.
He doesn't appear to be a liar.
He doesn't he doesn't.
If he's playing a part as a character, he's got it nailed.
He is a liar.
He's like everyone's going to cast him in the as a role in the movie, man.
He'd be a great character to play the part for sure, man.
He does a great job at that.
And he had me fooled for a number of years.
When I used to I used to argue in favor of Bob Lazar until I got, you know,
smartened up and educated by real area 51 and real physicists and real scientists.
And, you know, got deep down the rabbit hole on all this propulsion stuff, man,
because, you know, if you think Bob Lazar is the the epitome of where this is
this technology and the stuff is at, you haven't even scratched the surface.
So
what gives you the right to question some of this physics stuff with Bob Lazar?
What do you know about physics?
I mean, I know a little bit, but I mean, I talk.
So I I've gone and interviewed.
We run a site called.
I one of the guys that got me into all this
anti-gravity research was Tim Ventura back in the day with American anti-gravity.
And I teamed back up with Tim and we started this conference because I thought
he he's perfect for the for the role of him.
He's he's our moderator.
And we wanted to bring people in and create
an academic and open community where we could discuss these kinds of ideas at UFO
propulsion and discuss UFOs and anything goes kind of.
Conference.
And we got the idea because we attended the Estes Park Conference,
which is an annual conference put on by James Woodward.
He's famous for the Woodward effect and or the mock effect.
And Woodward puts on this Estes Park Conference every year and gets a number
of really good scientists out there to talk about their ideas for propulsion
and physics and stuff.
So the best one of the one of the best ones from that was Nathan N.
I. N. A. N.
If you want to look that up and get a good a good physics primer on anti-gravity.
Did you go to school for physics?
Like would you have any like degrees in physics?
Yes, I went to Bridgewater State University and and I got my I graduated in
2012 with a bachelor's degree in physics.
I did a minor in math because there's a lot of because just because.
And, you know, I so I have a background in physics.
I can speak the language enough of it to and I'm not really like super into all
this crazy tensor and string theory stuff.
I'm not no Ed Whitten, you know, so to speak.
But, you know, I'm not but I know enough where I can I can dabble in and I'm
more of an experimentalist and and and they an engineer kind of guy.
So I bridge that gap, but I can talk.
I talk to a lot of the I talk to those people and I can I can mediate, you know,
I can understand enough of what they're saying, even if I don't get all of it all
the time, I'm pretty I'm pretty I'm pretty up on it.
So Eric Weinstein was recently talking about Ed Whitten and he was talking about
him as if he was Gandalf of the Gandalf of physics.
And he said he's a mathematical wizard and just a genius.
Is it true that I mean, what I think is a smart people, smart person.
I think what he was trying to say was that even Ed Whitten is not even in
striking distance of understanding or coming to any sort of conclusions on this
anti gravity.
Well, it's interesting because Ed Whitten went down the string theory rabbit
hole, you know, in the late late 60s and early 70s and stuff.
And he was working, you know, there's the father and son team that Eric
Weinstein points out, Lewis and Ed Whitten, right?
Lewis Whitten got approached by Martin Marietta Corporation and was like, oh,
we're going to we're trying to we want you to figure out anti gravity for us.
And you're going to figure it out.
And so they put him through what year was this?
This was like.
I'd say the 19.
When did it start?
Probably 1950s.
He goes over it on if you want to look it up, you can look up an article.
Seventy year, 70 plus years of anti gravity history.
There's an article on the drive.com where they actually have the video
with Lewis Whitten giving the whole story.
So if people want to look that up, they can they can find that that whole thing,
an article on it and a video with some links to more information on it.
But yeah, 70 plus years of anti gravity history, if you just search for that.
But the other thing is are people still working on anti gravity?
Well, I know I know at least 12 groups
that are right now that are 12 different groups of people that are
there trying to figure out and doing different approaches and different methods.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's there's a lot of people who are still working on it.
And we we've there's been 70 plus years of projects.
You know, this is not just that there was all kinds of other projects.
So so they had a whole facility.
The other the other the other team was the husband and wife team that was
Bryson Cecil do it at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill.
And at North Carolina Chapel Hill, also in North Carolina, they have this guy,
Andrew Bonson, so they had.
Yeah, Andrew Bonson and Bonson was the guy who was funny.
He ran a big air conditioning company.
He had a lot of money from smelling air conditioning units.
And he wanted to be smelling air conditioning from selling.
And he ended up, you know, funding this lab called Bonson Labs.
And they hired, you know, Tom Thomas Townsend Brown and a number of other guys
to try to do experiments on anti gravity back then.
That was 1954, 56 and stuff.
So they have this whole facility down there.
I know that Bryce I've seen this one before.
Yeah, this is a cool article.
But yeah, it is there's a more history to this in the physics.
So what's interesting is that Bryce do it was working a lot with with
John Archibald Wheeler, who was Richard Feynman's PhD adviser at Princeton.
And Wheeler did a lot of classified work.
He worked on the H bomb.
He actually left H bomb secrets on a train one time on accident and then got so
scary, he like refused to leave Princeton after he wouldn't leave Princeton after
that and stuff.
But John Wheeler was a was a genius.
He came up with all these different concepts and stuff.
And one of the two interesting things that he was working on specifically with
Bryce do it during this period in the 1960s before physics got corrupted by
string theory and sent off a cliff, they were working on on
resolutions to the paradoxes between quantum mechanics and special and general
relativity and special relativity.
Like how do you merge relativity with quantum mechanics and make the two
consistent?
And they were struggling to how to do that.
And one of the solutions that they came up with was this issue of quantum
non locality.
And that's this issue that the substructure of space is on some
higher dimensional plane that that space and time are actually like a holographic
illusion and that everything exists all in one hyper plane all at once.
And that we just see different things and different specs from different
observer viewpoints and stuff.
A lot of us was confirmed, you know, you was later by like alien aspect and
John Bell and others, you know, with some of their experiments.
But what that core argument of the quantum non locality, that's
that explains right there how UFOs are getting here.
Because if you can create an Einstein-Rosenbridge between these two points
in the universe, you can open a wormhole and then just, you know, step through.
But then how do you how do you do that?
How do you do that is another story.
And I kind of got in this on Brett's channel a little bit because he was like,
you know, making the the relativity argument for why aliens can't get here,
that we've all heard the speed of light is a speed limit.
You can't go faster and that speed of light would take.
I think what was he saying?
It would take a hundred thousand years to get here from somewhere.
But how long does it take for the photon?
Because for the photon, it's instantaneous.
Why is that the photon does not experience any time at all.
In fact, the photon makes the trip goes backwards
and then to negotiate and then goes backwards in time and then then figures out
which route it's going to take according to QED, which is quantum
electrodynamics, the the theory of light as as written out by Richard Feynman,
which is which is super interesting.
That's like this pilot, this pilot, it was the pilot wave theory.
It's one interpretation of quantum mechanics.
There's two different interpretations.
One is this pilot wave interpretation that's Bohmian quantum mechanics.
And the other one is Copenhagen interpretation.
That's the Schrodinger's cat, where it's both alive and dead at the same time
in the state of superposition before the wave function collapses rather than it
takes the trip, renegotiates and then figures out which way it's going to go.
It's kind of a different approach to the the quantum action, the principle of quantum action.
But this whole idea is that for the photon and light, it seems has a lot to do with
all this because I mentioned in order to create
anti gravity, you need negative mass.
So how do you create negative mass?
Right.
Well, they've done it experimentally.
Did you know that?
I did not know that.
Yeah, there's an experiment that they did at University of Rochester
where they created negative mass in a laboratory and they did it using
something called Polaritan condensate.
Now, what the hell is Polaritan condensate?
Well, it's liquid light.
There's another word for it.
It's light that's been trapped inside of a material.
So when light goes in a material, it produces these
quad, these, you know, quasi particles inside the material by the interaction
of the electromagnetic fields to the material.
Those are called excitons.
And when the excitons are large enough to
polarize the actual, you know, physics inside there, the vacuum, you can actually
create these Polaritons or, you know, or polar this Polarons and Bipolarons.
And these are all quasi particles that you can basically generate in materials.
And through these generation of these quasi particles, you can create systems
where negative mass can be produced through these Polaritan condensates,
which is liquid light, it's trapped light.
So
it's fascinating because you see these,
you know, UFOs that like appear like glowing balls of light and then they do
this warp thing, you know, and how are they doing that?
And is there any, you know, interest?
Is there any physics behind this?
And well, sure enough, light can produce propulsion.
You know, there's a number of, you know, I mentioned the radiometer,
crooks radiometer.
It's a it's a meter which measures radiation or crooks radiometer.
Yeah, I think that's what it's called.
Yeah. And this was what you showed me in the Giza power plan book in Christopher Dunn's book.
No, that was the crooks tube.
That's an electron gun.
So so yeah, that was the member Joe Rogan had
Tom DeLong on the podcast and he's talking about this, you know,
metamaterial that they have that they use to warp space time.
And he's saying, oh, they fire an electron at it and it goes slower, you know,
one way than the other.
And, you know, Joe Rogan was like, how do you fire an electron at it?
And Tom DeLong is like, I don't know, I'm not a physicist.
And, you know, the answer is a crooks tube.
That's an electron.
Crooks tube. That's an electron gun.
It's an electron gun.
Yeah. So that's that's what you can that's what you could have used to fire electrons.
But this is a little different.
So electron, these are photons.
These are light particles and light particles actually contain mass or they
contain momentum because you can get that you can get this thing spinning just by
shining light on it.
And it's just black squares on one side and white on the other.
So what happens on the white side is it's reflecting the light and on the black side,
it's absorbing the light. Right.
So it gets a there's an in balance in the forces from the light,
the pressure that the light puts on there.
So so actually that's what causes the thing to spin or rotate because you know
how they get the black on one side and the white on the other.
So
that's that's the principle concept behind this.
Light has momentum so you can use light to push things.
So if you get enough light, you can push heavy.
I mean, this is really light, perfectly balanced thing.
And you know, you're using a small amount of light, but it can still push it.
But what happens when you get a ton of light and you bounce it around inside this
resonant cavity, you know, in this meta material that you've created that is made
to capture and trap light, it's essentially a piece of glass or a dielectric between
two mirrors so that the mirrors just bounce the light back and forth between the glass,
you know, in the middle.
So the light light goes in and they're one way mirrors.
So you can the light goes in and then it gets trapped and you can bounce it around.
And then you can do different things to that light.
You can squeeze it and then you can set up other, you know,
the zenith surface waves and other other types of waves in the structure
to produce these different types of condensates.
So condensates are condensed matter physics.
So it's not like condensed milk where I'm, you know, evaporating all the water out.
It's it's where I'm cooling all the quantum particles so that the statistics
that govern them all fall to the same level so that they start behaving, you know,
their quantum mechanical behaviors start becoming more emergent.
So you're creating, you know,
macroscopic objects that are exhibiting quantum mechanical behaviors.
That's how, you know, you can
there might be a window into how to, you know, change physics altogether.
And if they're not working on this, then they should be.
And I don't think they would have figured this out in the 1950s.
I don't think they had the math or the material science back in the 50s.
Assuming that we captured actual pieces of, you know, UFOs or extraterrestrial
technology, we might have, you know, had some of this and maybe back engineered
or learned something from studying those pieces.
But as far as, you know, us being able to build them and manufacturing them,
I don't think we're at that level yet.
I think that that's where the problem is right now in the in the whole industry,
of being able to do this.
You know, that's why I'm not worried about talking about this kind of stuff.
I don't think, you know,
Russia and China, it would need a you need a very large state apparatus
to be able to fund a program and research something like this.
What do you think these modern day UFOs are then?
What do you think?
Do you think they are from somewhere else?
Or do you think they are something we found and figured it out?
Or do you there's I like to evaluate every UFO case on an individual basis?
Because it's just there.
It's all different things.
There's so many. There's such there's so many technologies that people have no idea
about. And I'm like, oh, God, now I watched this one.
It was a video and like, look at this thing.
It's transmedium. It's coming out of the water.
And then it's flying around and then it goes back into the water.
And I'm like, dude, that's a blurred down version of the MPEO AV Cormorant.
Go look it up.
It's a they decommissioned a bunch of nuclear subs in the Lockheed Martin did
this and they started, you know, figuring out what they could do with the launch
systems for the nukes and the subs.
And they built this craft called the Cormorant, which gets shot out of the frigging
water and can fly and then return to the water and get, you know, reconnect with
the submarine. And that's what they showed the video of.
And it's like, well, you know, if you didn't know any better,
you'd think it was aliens or a UFO or something.
But but then there's other cases where, you know, you have
that are more intriguing, you know, where there's actual debris
and contact and and other things.
Let's start. Maybe we should start with Roswell.
Yeah, Roswell is a perfect example.
You have all these rural farmers.
You have, you know, Mack Brousel, the farmer, you know, finds this material,
brings it into the bar, brings it to, you know, to town, shows a bunch of people.
This apparently brought it down to the Roswell Army Air Base and and
someone, some other people found it and were showing a bunch of pieces to the fire
station. So lots of people handled this material and they described it as this
memory foil, right, which is a it would you could crumple it up in a ball and then
let it go and it would go back to its original shape.
And memory metals are super interesting, like shape, shape retention alloys.
So night and all is the exact the first one that we created.
It was not created until 1954 at Naval Ordinance Research Labs.
Night. It's called night and all.
Yeah. Night and all.
It stands for Nickel, Titanium, N-I-T-I-N-O-L Naval Ordinance Research Labs.
Oh, wow.
So it was discovered at Naval Ordinance Research Labs back in the 50s.
But there's evidence that they were working on this or looking into titanium
alloys at Battelle at Wright-Patterson as early as 1949.
Because Wright-Patterson, 1947, Roswell happens.
All the debris ends up at Wright-Patterson allegedly, right?
That's that's where NACIC is.
That's where the U.S. Air Force Aerospace Intelligence Center is.
That's where U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology.
This is the hub.
This is the real like it's three, four times the size of Area 51.
And they have way more intelligence people and way more stuff.
Area 51, if anything, is just a test ground.
If there's any kind of real
you know, nuts and bolts, you know, physics and science research, it's going on there
at Wright-Patterson and Battelle.
Battelle would have been a perfect choice if you had alien technology and had to
come up with a contractor to look at it.
They were doing, you know, tank armor, metals research.
And they had all the experts in metallurgy that they needed.
And at the time, and they were also a
a private institution, so they're not actually a government organization.
They're private institutions, so they don't have to follow the same.
Battelle, B-A-T-E-L.
Yeah, B-A-T-T-E-L-L-E.
It's Battelle Memorial Institute.
And it was set up,
you know, in the early 20s, I believe, late, maybe late 20s.
And it's it's been around, you know, almost a hundred years now.
They currently manage all of our national labs.
Did you know that?
No. Yeah.
Los Alamos Labs, Oak Ridge, you know,
everywhere is managed by Battelle under contract.
And that's kind of scary for science, because if you want to control technology
and you want to, you know, have a UFO cover up of this kind of scale, you need that.
What do you think happened at Roswell?
What do you think that was that crashed there?
It's interesting.
I think that a number of people were brought out there, scientists,
to look at this, that have testified to it and talked about it.
Robert Sarbacher claims that he was, you know, brought a part of it.
Interesting guy did a lot of work on
polaritons and exciton physics, coincidentally, in his years of research.
And also a guy named John von Neumann,
was one of the smartest guys on the Manhattan Project.
He came up with the idea of modern Neumann probes just four months after Roswell.
So, you know, maybe he heard about the idea that it was a crashed alien spacecraft
and he just came up with that idea from his imagination.
Or maybe it was a von Neumann probe that crashed.
I don't know. What's a von Neumann probe?
That's a self replicating space probe.
It's like a type three robot that can go out, make copies of itself and call
and then colonize and share and send back information.
So that's what it's like a droid that comes here and sets itself up like a monolith
or something and just records information and studies us, you know.
And it probably go on scene, plug into our internet once we created one, you know,
stuff like that.
There's a whole bunch of theories on another one that's called Bracewell probes.
That's another variation of this that are slightly different.
Von Neumann is responsible for like the first computer, right?
The first supercomputer that was ever and it was like a like an eight ton computer or something.
No, that's Turing.
No, I thought it was von Neumann.
This was von Neumann was the human computer.
He was called the human computer because he could do like very complex,
you know, large calculations in his brain.
And he's a lot of the, you know, work for the Manhattan Project on that.
But I don't know if he did any direct work on computers.
He was more of like the
theoretical and computational physicist for for Los Alamos.
But yeah, that that what I believe was Turing and Babbage
were some of the first computer guys that, you know, but I don't know,
supercomputer was gray, gray, I think created the first supercomputer really in the 70s.
Maniac Maniac was the name of the computer.
An army funded electronic.
It was an army funded electronic numerical integrator.
The first computer in the world and was the first computer was 100 feet long,
10 feet high, and it had a 17,000.
It had 17,000 vacuum cubes and it weighed 60,000 pounds.
Look up that. Yeah, the maniac computer.
Oh, OK. Yeah.
So he did some of this computer work, too.
I didn't know I didn't know about his computer.
Annie Jacobson talked all about this in her book, The Pentagon Brain.
Yeah.
And.
You know, this is kind of like this sort of research computer.
Right. And this was all like this computer
was used to calculate the exact amount of feet in the air they needed to detonate
the bombs over Japan to create the most civilian casualties.
Yeah.
Like they literally figured out the exact
altitude to detonate those bombs.
Yep.
Probably just setting like two integrals and set them equal and found the intersection
point and how to do it with computers.
Probably very complex.
This is dark shit, man.
Some of the stuff that Von Neumann and Herb York were working on in the beginning
of DARPA or it was called ARPA in the beginning.
Yeah, ARPA, ARPA net was the original internet.
Yeah, that's cool.
I didn't know about this, man.
So like, yeah, it just shows that they knew it was computers and they knew they
needed to figure out computers and integrated circuits and stuff.
I mean, that's the thing like guys like the day after Roswell with Corso.
He says that all our integrated computer chips and all this stuff came right from
Roswell and stuff and this shows that they were they were working on the stuff.
This stuff existed before Roswell, man.
I mean, they had vacuum tubes.
They were working on the transistor, you know, even though it was invented after
Roswell, I don't think it came from Roswell because the guys who are working on it
like had all the solid state theory behind it.
And then all the physics was there.
It didn't like come from nowhere and it can all be traceable to human scientists
and human sources.
That's another thing I don't like in all this because a lot of times the aliens
get the credit for all these discoveries of this stuff.
And it's like, no, you're missing all the history and the real science and the people
who worked on this.
And there's people that spent their lives to get the science of this to this point
and you're going to give you're going to credit aliens for everything.
It's like the same thing.
So did you tell me, I don't remember if you actually said,
what do you think was what do you think it was that crashed at Roswell?
Oh, I don't know what it crashed at Roswell,
but I don't think it was a project mogul.
I don't think it was project mogul,
weather balloon train, right, the Alvarez, you know, explanation, right?
That was a cover up, right, where they had the guy take a photo posing with that
piece of like foil saying it was with a balloon for the news.
Both the guys in that photo.
So Jesse Marcell and Colonel DeBeau both testified to a material switch.
And they said that was not the material.
And that they faked that photo up and they did a material switch.
So both the top intelligence officers right there testified to that.
Numerous people who handled the material described it in, you know, the great detail.
Yes, a piece of radar target and everything and, you know,
weather balloon with radar target.
So that's.
You know, you can see that look on disappointment on Marcell's face,
like almost like he's being forced to do this and he knows something more.
And even Jesse Marcell's son said
he stopped at the house on the way home and showed his son some of the material.
Right.
Said he saw it, too.
He said it looked like this crystallized stuff and, you know, this
in Bakelite material or something.
But, you know, so the materials that were described by all these witnesses who saw
it was not a weather balloon.
It's just hard to believe that it was mistaken by Air Force intelligence for a
weather balloon that, you know, they would make this mistake and then have to fly it
out to Fort Worth.
Could you imagine like the Air Force intelligence getting to Fort Worth and
being like, oh, it's a weather balloon.
You thought it was a you thought it was an alien spaceship.
Right.
You know, so I just there's certain things that don't make sense.
I believe that if it was an alien spaceship,
the government completely had the ability to cover it up.
They still do to this day with what I've seen that their ability to cover other
things up, I just cannot possibly believe that they couldn't cover something like
that up if it were true.
There's so many people from Wright-Patterson that reported, you know,
hand-owning this material or working on it.
Then you have the Battelle study that was done in 1949 looking into nickel titanium
alloys, they developed a whole system of, you know, dissolving these alloys of
unknown origin using chlorine tetrachloride.
So they dissolve it in chlorine and then measure the off gases as they as they
burn it in chlorine and dissolve it in chlorine and then burn it.
And they measure the off gases to tell what the thing was made out of.
So why would this was a, you know, a Battelle document, you know,
written for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in 1949.
And the scientists who wrote it,
Elroy John Center testified that, you know, he worked on he was given materials
were working at Battelle, he was given metals that he thought were from aliens
because he didn't think we could make that kind of stuff.
It was impossible with the stuff that he had worked on.
He told his wife this and he told other people this.
So
it's super interesting.
Then the director of Battelle was this guy, Howard Cross, who it turns out was,
you know, connected with with some interesting research into all this.
And then, you know, NASA doing research into the into these
remember, shape retention alloys as well.
The fact that they were looking into specifically nickel titanium alloys
and and trying to, you know, figure out this stuff that early just shows me that
there's there might be something to this.
They have this, you know, we created the first memory metal based on this technology.
And then we're working on it right after this.
And all these witnesses are describing this foil,
which sounds a lot like a sophisticated memory material.
Now, I've heard that it's like a night and all wire, a fine, you know,
thread of night and all wire that's woven in a fabric.
That's actually how this some of this stuff is made.
And that's why it has these materials that it does, that it's like woven on the
atomic level, and that's why they looked at it under an SEM and we're like,
how the hell we're going to make this, dude?
You know, like you need to like a micro loom or something to read this or, you know.
So it can just imagine that the complexity of these nano materials when they looked at them,
and we're like, how can we build this stuff?
And what's even going on here as far as the physics goes?
Because, you know, you dive into all this
pelaroton and exciton stuff where you're trapping light inside these cavities.
And then you can then you can do things with the light once you once you have it
trapped and you can you can build integrated photonic circuits.
You can build entire circuit boards of integrated electronics that function
on photons instead of electrons, so they're much more efficient.
You know, when you deal with electrons, you have resistivity and impedance.
So you're burning most of your energy that you're using to do your
calculations on your computer and do everything on your computer.
You most of that energy is getting wasted as heat.
But if you had it all in terms of light instead of electrons and electronics,
if you had it with photonics and spin tronics of just, you know, these
microscopic nanotechnology engineered materials that would, you know,
can trap and redirect light through all these channels the same way that
your computer does it with voltage and current inside these integrated circuit boards.
You could build, you know, very advanced computers that are, you know,
in the storage capabilities that you'd have like 5D crystal storage, you know,
it would just be, you know, this is this is the world we're going towards.
And you can't get smaller than building atom by atom, you know.
So that's if you're talking about alien technology, that's that's the crux.
I mean, that's where you're where eventually you need to get to is the
ability to manufacture things atom by atom and what we're going to be able to
do with nanotechnology once we get to that, you know, level.
So this light propulsion technology, you're basically saying that in order
for a another civilization to get here, that's what they would need to use.
The anti-gravity would be irrelevant.
Well, it's it's it's it's anti-gravity is kind of irrelevant because it's yeah,
it's not just you're not just replying away from gravity.
Right. Yeah, you have to be able to go interstellar.
So you have to be able to open up these massive distances of time,
spacetime, and create an Einstein-Rosenbridge between those two things.
So I'm sorry, I got this is I'm just dumb.
So I got it. I don't know what Einstein-Rosenbridge is.
Yeah. So this Einstein-Rosenbridge.
So they kind of came up with this idea of solutions to Einstein's field equations
and a bunch of these, you know, a bunch of people come up with different metrics
and different solutions to them.
One of the most popular is the Schwarzschild metric, which is what black holes do.
That's how that's like the topology and physics of black holes is this Schwarzschild solution.
Now, these other
so that these right Einstein-Rosen solutions are, you know, wormhole solutions.
So they're their solutions to the field
equations where you can open up two point and connect two points of space.
Right, like folding a piece of paper in half and poking a hole right through it.
Yes, it's all about how you fold, folding the paper and then how you poke the hole.
So the opening and the shape of the hole that you poke and all that is super important
to doing that and this bending and folding of spacetime.
But how do you do that?
So the way we can see it being done in physics is that the photons themselves are
actually generating and building and producing the spacetime.
So rather than thinking of relativity as this, you know, absolute theory,
think of it as a emergent theory that's generator comes out of quantum mechanics.
And one of the guys I like, he does a lot of cool research into this is as
Lewis Kaufman, he's a mathematician, he does a lot of not theory and shows how,
you know, he has his whole paper on how relativity can emerge
simply from, you know, quantum mechanics and these simple functions.
If you just do this expansion and you separate the odd and even terms,
you get relativity from that as these two parts.
And it's it's an interesting take on the whole physics of it,
because it's saying that if we, you know, when you shine light,
that light is creating an instantaneous, it's building the spacetime.
The light itself is building the spacetime and it's creating these
Einstein-Rosen bridges between every point that these interactions happen.
So if you were able to connect these,
how do you connect two point distant points and spacetime is you'd have to have
a lot of light going between those two points that that's, you know,
going back and forth or focused.
And is it light in our dimension or is it light in another dimension?
And that's that gets into these these real
hyperdimensional physics that, you know,
the hop vibration stuff and the stuff that Eric Weinstein's getting into.
Because I think that that's really the the door opening, you know,
into our pathway into those hyperdimensional physics.
But it starts with the material science,
because how do you actually build it and do experiments with it?
And I think that that has a lot to do with these trap
polariton condensates and also these what Jack Sarfati and others are talking
about in some of these groups, these Frolic condensates, F-R-O-H-L-I-C-H,
Frolic. And this guy was a
another physicist who came up with this this theory.
And
it's basically these condensates where they can create you create a supercomputer
or a conscious AI, like a conscious AI and a supercomputer on the surface of this
polariton condensate, like, you know, with this trapped light kind of this idea.
OK. And that that
it would almost become conscious.
And then that's like a whole another level of just weirdness.
Because I don't understand that quite fully or where that's going.
But I think that's cool as hell that there's physics involved in it.
And just we have a whole team working on like small scale laboratory
replications, like, how do we do this? How do we build it?
And then we have another couple of guys who are working with they're trying to use
AI supercomputers to do material science, engineering and design.
So we we we want a 2D material that does this.
That's like graphene or borafene, you know, so can we, you know, can we make
or you have a material that you want to do a certain thing?
So you have to use supercomputers and AI to engineer and design these things.
And then first, so that way, you don't have to go through a lot of the work,
because the AI can can do a lot of those calculations and computations and thinking
stuff for you. And I thought that was super interesting.
I also have one of the largest databases on like all this anti gravity stuff
anywhere. We have just massive, like, I think 30 terabyte.
No, no, 30 gigabytes.
Now, it's 30 gigabytes of we had like a couple
terabytes, we condensed it really down.
What type of files are these?
It's just it's books.
Wow, texts, papers, everything that's been published related to, you know,
relativity, gravity theory, any of these search terms like polariton,
condensates excite on polariton pairs, gravity, entanglement, quantum
entanglement, you know, anything, anything that's related to that.
And what we're thinking about doing is training our AI
to go through that database, you know, we're going to like get a chat GP4 bot
and then train it using our database and then and then start asking it questions
about anti gravity and physics to help our engineering team, like, you know,
come further along.
So and I think that, you know, there's other people probably already working on
this and doing this.
I don't think we're the first to think of this or do it or try it.
But yeah, that's what that's what we're working on.
We have that and we also have the all propulsion dot com with the APEC conference
that, you know, I mentioned Estes Park.
So Estes Park during COVID, they had Estes Park Conference, which is this
propulsion conference that James Woodward puts on and and they had it online on Zoom
because, you know, during COVID, no one could meet up in person.
So we did the first thing on Zoom and that gave us the idea, man,
we could be holding these conferences on Zoom.
This is just the technology and where it's come.
It's just great that we can do this now.
You know, this didn't they didn't have this back in 2011 when I went to MIT
and did the cold fusion thing, but we can do this.
We can do this now.
And so we set up our own conference with the APEC conference and we started
inviting all these guys.
One of the first guests we had on was Mark McCann,
unless he's the ARV, the Alien Reproduction Vehicle guy, you know,
talking about that flux liner and stuff.
He was one of our first guests.
We had we've had all kinds of people.
We had Ronald Evans of Project Green Glow on there.
We had a whole episode with a bunch of scholars from India where they came on
and talked about all the research into Vamanas and all the history of Vimana or,
you know, ancient Indian flying saucers.
And we just had a whole bunch of names.
Some of these names you probably never heard of.
Glenn Glenn Robertson, Tony, he's from NASA.
He was one of the he worked with Ning Li on those pod
Glitnov replication experiments.
Mike McCulloch's over the UK.
He's got a DARPA contract right now working on
his quantized inertia drive idea.
There's Ronald Evans of Project Green Glow.
We had him on about a month before the BBC had him on to do a report on the same
topic.
Of course, we asked him much more detailed and deep technical physics questions
because we got we had an hour.
It's an hour presentation in our Q&A where we just have like a team of DARPA,
NASA, MIT, all kinds of super smart guys on there just asking all the best questions.
Like current.
These guys are currently working at DARPA and doing under any sort of NDAs or anything.
Not for that.
I mean, they might be for some of the stuff that they're doing.
They can be specific about right.
They can't share information with us, but they can sit there and get information
from our guests or ask questions.
Why not? They love what we're doing, man.
Are you kidding me?
I can't believe like you never hear about this kind of shit.
This is it's amazing that this this type of physics and this type of science is so.
It seems like it's buried.
It's so hard to find a lot of people.
I've never heard anyone talk about this fucking this light photon propulsion before.
Yeah, well, NASA did a lot of started research in a lot of the son of the SDI,
you know, the Star Wars program with directed energy and these laser light
propulsion, and they actually started out of it's interesting
when you see how they create and who they recruit for these projects.
So it's often from graduate students or graduate programs or sometimes professors.
And it's usually like these obscure universities like University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, you know, for example.
And and and the other one I was going to mention was
they they recruit out of
a Rensselaer Polytech.
So Rensselaer Polytech is who they chose to go to to ask to help design the Star
Wars light craft microwave propulsion unit.
So they hired a bunch of guys out of Rensselaer Polytech to do all that.
And we show a picture of this thing yet.
Yeah, so that's that's the guy named Lake Maribu.
It's L.E.I.K.
First named Lee L.E.I.K.
M.Y.R.A.B.O.
And he wrote this book called Laser Lightcraft.
I think it was published in Canada.
And somebody, you know, definitely not the D.O.D. or anything,
went and bought out every single copy of this book that was in existence.
That's the great light craft.
Flight Handbook.
Is it John John S. Lewis is when was this published?
You know, it was probably
you know, sometime around 2010 or something.
But yeah, this was the idea.
They started with these these craft that they started with a laser on the ground,
these navy lasers that they were using to see how far they could shoot stuff up
into space, but they realized with the divergence of the beam, that's how far it
splits and widens out as it gets further away from the source.
Right.
As the beam diverged and they they lost the ability to kind of pinpoint it.
So they could only shoot this thing about, I know, 400 feet or so up in the air before
they could who is they who is doing this?
They were doing it.
Mirabu was doing this out at US Navy
Research Labs. I forget where exactly.
It might have been New Mexico.
OK, so they were shooting these lasers into the sky.
They were.
Yeah, what they do is they they have to coordinate to make sure that there is no
satellites or anything above where they're where they're pointing the laser,
whether they're doing the tests, because this thing they could they could shoot
out a satellite potentially with these lasers.
They're such high power.
Oh, the beam might diverge so much by that point.
It might not be enough power.
So that picture kind of shows us it's like a saucer flying how
Bob was our described it flying like Belly first and Belly first.
That's kind of crazy, huh?
It is really crazy.
So that it's interesting that this is they were working on this kind of stuff back
in the 80s, you know, at Star Wars, SDI program at some of these facilities.
So he might have he may have heard or learned some information about this.
And we've been to the story too.
So he had a but there is impossible to get a copy of one of these books right now.
Not impossible.
You probably look it up on Amazon.
Look up that book on Amazon and see what you can find.
The Lightcraft Flight Handbook.
Yeah.
Someone went and bought all the copies is only I only can find one for like three grand.
Three forty nine.
Three hundred forty nine dollars for the paperback.
How long is it prime?
Oh, it arrives April 18th.
It's still mad expensive, though, you know, that is expensive for a book.
It is really it's like more than, you know,
even the thickest, heaviest college textbook I've ever bought.
I don't think I've ever, you know, even the most expensive college textbook was.
Add that to my car. Save that for later.
Yeah, you can check it out.
It was before, I mean, it's been a while since I checked it.
But a couple when I checked it a while ago, it was at like three thousand and there
was no copies of it available.
So maybe the I don't.
People are definitely I mean, that must be a resale.
Maybe a reprint, a reissue or something.
But I don't know if the because it seems like those kind of things go out of print
and they don't want it.
It's like that's how they classify it.
It comes out in book form and they'll go out and buy up every copy of the book.
But why, though, why, why would who are you saying like that?
The DoD would be trying to get rid of that or hide that.
Why would they want to do that?
Because they want that just for war technology, secret war technology.
They just don't want it.
It's just another way of suppression of the information.
It's it's it's security by obscurity.
That's the best that's the best security strategy is.
What do you think their concern is with that kind of information being open sourced?
They are concerned that more people will know about it and therefore their ability
to use it effectively and deceptive warfare will be lessened.
You know, I mean, so so if they're trying to fake you out and make you think that alien
UFOs are swarming your craft, you know, say they say we have a bunch of these
countermeasures, which we can create these illusions of UFOs and fleets of things
and even have some drones with maybe some of this light craft technology on them
that they can they can do some of these crazy maneuvers, hypersonics even, you know.
So this hypersonic technology that was developed from this.
Do you know that? No.
So hypersonics started with this super cavitation,
the supercavitating torpedoes that would supercavitate the water like this.
You know what the pistol shrimp is?
No. So the pistol shrimp will actually
supercavitate, it creates this like flick, really hypersonic flick.
And it creates a supersonic bubble, which supercavitates really quickly.
And it actually knocks out their prey.
It will knock out a fish and like stun them and completely find a picture of the shrimp.
The mantis shrimp or the pistol shrimp, the pistol shrimp or mantis shrimps do it too.
So.
Yeah, it's got this one claw that creates the super cavitation effect in it, right?
In water. And what happens is for a brief moment,
the water vaporizes and turns to gas and also like evacuates the area.
So like it blows out so it creates like a vacuum for a brief time.
So it allows it to like lunge towards its prey, like.
No, it doesn't lunge toward the prey.
What it does, a fish comes near and it creates this shock wave that is it stuns
the fish and knocks it out.
It just it creates such a strong, powerful shock wave that it just knocks the fish
right out, knocks it out cold.
So man, just shrimp punch, you know.
And you're saying that this this is like what they use with rockets.
They use it and they use it in in in ICBM, some of the advanced
intercontinental ballistic missiles will use this.
What they do is they direct energy.
They shine a laser, a laser point.
There's a laser tip in the nose cone that blasts energy a certain distance.
And again, you mentioned how they use these computers to calculate that distance
a way that they need to do that detonation for the for the atomic bomb.
It's similar to that.
They create this detonation in front of the nose of the rocket or the torpedo or
whatever, so they super cavitate the air or water.
And so that the rocket or torpedoes actually flying through a vacuum
so that they can eliminate or greatly reduce the air drag by production of these
these directed energy induced plasmas.
And so they're able to get craft up above Mach 10.
Using this super cavitation technology, which they're which is
this is again, this is developed from this is a grandchild of that marabou
light craft technology, because they started out with the lasers and they're like,
oh, creating these plasmas in the sky.
And they're like, oh, well, we can.
The problem is we need to move that the laser off the ground and actually put it
on the on the craft. That was the first step.
And once they did that, they could they could figure out how to, you know,
they figured out how to tone it just right to create this super cavitating effect.
And how do you know that this has been published that these are being actively
like they're being tested on these ICBMs or.
It is no video tests of it anywhere.
There's one video I could find of a torpedo test.
I think of South Korea doing some tests with these super cavitating torpedoes,
but there's no like videos or anything on it.
But you can find the patents.
You look up Kevin Kramer, K-R-E-M-E-Y-E-R.
And he's got a bunch of patents on this,
including one where they actually they actually shine the they shine the laser
down on the surface of a plane's wing and they can take control of they can control
the air flow over. That's what that is, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
So they can basically. Oh, my God.
They could take control over your plane and fly you from remotely by affecting
by creating these plasmas on your wing.
They could they could flip your plane
ground you, they could put you in a stall.
They could do lots of things to your your flight controls by by inducing these
plasmas on the surface of your Chinese airframe.
And yeah, there's all kinds of variations and experiments that that public has no
idea about that have been done with these technologies.
And I think a lot of this UFO stuff is is is almost like a Pentagon psi op to
because none of the technologies are ever talked about.
And it's always just like it's aliens, it's aliens, it's aliens.
And it's almost like the Pentagon is like putting out pushing, pushing this narrative
super hard to get right.
But it also gets people to to report these things,
which is good, because if the Chinese and Russian have Russia have these things
and they're flying them over our country, then we want them to be reported.
We want to know about it, right?
So but this gives a safe layer of safety for the DoDs, because now people like
reporting it, but they're not getting scared.
They're just like, oh, am I seeing aliens?
It's a little less scary than my seeing, you know, high tech hypersonic
spy drones from China and Russia.
Now we can talk about the Navy pilots.
The the Navy pilots commander favor in 2004 off the Nimitz saw these the Tic-Tac UFO,
the thing that basically was like mimicking
or mirroring his movements in his F-18.
And the thing like arrived at his cap point before he like exactly where he
he didn't even know where his cap point was.
He got there and the thing was already there.
He explained that Tic-Tac thing.
Hovering above the water, creating a disturbance in the water.
How do you explain that?
Well, there's there's a couple of different, you know,
technologies, a lot of different missiles that can travel like it look like a Tic-Tac
and can cause those disturbances on the water and travel that that fast.
So, you know, I'm not absolutely convinced on that.
Again, I take pilot, you know, testimony is pretty credible.
These guys are trained.
They've seen a lot of different stuff.
So it's it's hard to argue with them.
Even Kevin Day, we've had Kevin Day on and I believe these guys have seen Kevin Day.
He's another pilot that's seen some of this stuff.
So, you know, and I and I've
never got the chance to really sit down with
favor or graves and really grill them on it because I'm again, I'm not like
I'm only interested in extra what kind of technical intelligence data I can extract
from those testimonies and where that can get me because that's that's where I'm at
in this game. It's like, you know, if they're not telling me, you know,
yeah, I know there's stuff that flies around that does crazy stuff.
Yeah, I know that there's all kinds of stuff out there.
But what specifically are they seeing?
It sounds a lot like, you know, again, that the cube inside of a sphere sounds
like this project palladium technology, which is actually.
Yeah. So Graves said that he never actually saw this thing with his own eyes.
Graves said that he saw these things on his radar once they upgraded the radar
on their f 18s. And then some of the guys that he was flying with claimed
that they saw one guy flew directly past this thing that looked like a cube
inside of a sphere went right by his wing.
Yeah. And those are actually that project
palladium had these balloons that they put a radar reflector.
And it was actually in the shape of an octahedron, which easily mistaken for a cube,
you know, because they look very octahedron.
Can you find a diagram of an octahedron?
It looks very similar to a cube, but.
Yeah. So if you saw that inside of a balloon, you think a cube inside a sphere,
right? That's an octahedron.
So yeah, that's actually an octahedron.
And that's what's in the patents for these these balloon type devices.
And and what is the purpose of these things?
So these are early.
These are early repeater technology, like
their signal reflectors, and some of them would be
a little bit more sophisticated that they could do.
Radar repeat spoofing signals.
So a lot of them were used as like spoofing, so they would create these balloons.
They could inflate one out of a buoy.
They'd have these buoys set up that could
spontaneously inflate these balloons and then they could they could inflate or
detonate or detonate and pop them on command.
So what they could do is have one buoy here, put up a balloon,
then pop that balloon and have another buoy put up another one.
So the radar signatures would look like this balloon
teleported or did a jump maneuver from one point to another.
And that was like some early experiments that they did with that stuff.
But then other projects palladium.
And this was just and the purpose of this was just to confuse enemy radars.
Yeah. Yeah.
A lot of it was to confuse enemy radars and also to confuse, you know,
your plane like a plane's coming in with radar.
A lot of planes report seeing these types of things.
And the fact that it mimicked his
technologies, that sounds a lot like like a DRFM technology, like this digital radio
frequency memory where it can take a it can take a signal and then repeat it back.
But it's it's almost like something that's looking at it and then recreating that
because like why did it do those maneuvers?
And that also is interesting because one of the ideas we had is this projector
thing, you know, that that's projecting this.
And then someone pointed out, well, you know, the thing did a circle and then it
followed him around in a circle, so it would have to project through him at some
point, right, you know, for him to go in a circle around it.
If there was like one source down the ground.
So what about, you know, the SDI program put these things in satellites, apparently.
So they might have these types of lasers in in satellites so they could project.
They could potentially project these types of things from above.
And do not program.
That's the Star Wars Defense Initiative.
That's under Reagan.
So they had a there's a number of these things.
And then they were actually practicing with these these lasers to be able to take
out ICBMs like incoming this of Russia sends over nukes.
They can shoot them out of the sky with these lasers on satellites and stuff.
It's a whole program that was developed.
It's called the Star Wars program under Reagan.
And a lot of these technologies and stuff are basically, you know,
the grandkids of those pro of that program, you know, a lot of that stuff
that that was started in the 80s under the Reagan program is connected to a lot
of this stuff.
But that's not the only thing is there's a lot of other projects that were even
earlier than that, like 1958 is when the CIA set up Project Rainbow out at Area 51.
And that was their invisibility and stealth program where they were trying
to figure out electromagnetic frequency responses.
And so EMF response is important to invisibility because it's how do you
minimize your radar signature because it's your return signature and your
cross-sectional area and a lot of things have to do with it.
It's one equation that they have.
It's actually on the Area 51 patch.
They have the equation for the cross-sectional radar area of an object.
And they just exploit that equation to figure out how to minimize that radar
cross-sectional area so that you can be invisible to the radar.
By exploiting that formula, that's the reason that the F 117 has those flat
surfaces because that those flat surfaces minimize that contour.
There's less of an edge for and it's really the edges.
It's that side of the fuselage, which is that
reflective surface that they're trying to minimize in order to minimize that return
for the radar signal.
There's a lot of technologies that have been done into radar and counter radar.
And as I mentioned, those are called ECCMs or electronic counter countermeasures.
Right.
So radar would be an ECM or an electronic countermeasure.
You're countermeasuring, you're having a countermeasure against incoming airplanes
by shining your radar to be able to see them ahead of time.
And they're using their ECCMs against your countermeasures to counter your
countermeasures using, you know, shapes or flares or other radar spoofing technologies
like the palladium one we talked about, or that there's a bunch of nemesis,
project nemesis is a whole other series of these war game things where they actually
can use this DRFM technology to implant, you know,
specific signals into different radar systems so they can they can spoof certain
radar systems to see whatever they think they want, whether it's a huge fleet or a
giant, you know, whatever, they can make them see whatever.
So I talked to Ryan, you saw the clip.
You saw I talked to Ryan, I asked him about possibly, you know,
these war games that are or testing these dark technologies, radar spoofing
technologies on off the coast of North Carolina or off the coast of San Diego.
And his argument is that they would have they have specific ranges that are designed
to test this stuff.
Number one, number two is they wouldn't be testing it for a span of 10 years from
2004 to 2015 off the busiest traffic, heavy,
heavily, most heavily militarized sections of airspace.
Right. There's more, there's more air traffic going through that area off the
coast of North Carolina where he was flying than anywhere in the United States.
So he was like, why would they be testing it there?
And why would they be testing it over a period of 10 years?
Yeah, it's interesting, you know,
Catalina Island always looked like a good place to do testing to me because it's
off the coast and stuff.
And, you know, as a Navy SEAL training base there and a lot of set ups,
it looks very similar to a lot of the stuff that they have at Area 51 where they
build like these mock cities and mock towns out of like cargo containers and stuff.
And they do like training, you know, bombing, bombing training and other
exercises on these facilities like the SEALs will, they'll build a whole compound
and then the SEALs will have to set up against one team versus the other to do
a raid or something, you know, and they'll do training in these types of facilities.
There's a lot of that on Catalina Island.
There's also a lot of like interesting microwave and radar array systems set up
there that, you know, other people have been curious about.
So so there's definitely infrastructure there to do this kind of stuff.
Again, why they would do it for a period of 10 years and why they would do it
there is another question.
And then, yes, it would definitely indeed be, you know, not the military
contractors deploying this technology.
It would have to be the military itself doing this type of, you know,
using this technology in active training or warfare preparation or other types
of scenarios and maybe that's, you know, maybe that's maybe it's just new
technology and they've been training with it all along.
And it's just it just happens that other people see it from time to time and then
have to be, you know, derailed from with other explanations about what it is.
Maybe that's that's a possibility.
I still haven't, you know, completely dismissed that yet.
I haven't dismissed the possibility that it's aliens either.
I mean, it could be aliens flying out there.
But then again, you know, they have the technology to get here.
Why are they using their invisibility cloaks?
Because many materials and invisibility cloaking and carbon nanotubes that all
those types of technologies you can produce invisibility with.
We've done it.
Look up Mirage Effect.
Look at Mirage Effect's CNTs.
CNT is short for carbon nanotubes.
It's incredible.
We can find all this stuff right on Google.
Yeah. If you know what to look for, if you know what to look for, right?
Yeah, you got to know what to look for.
You have to know the key words.
And if you don't, then you will never ever stumble across it in your random
research, you know, not a million years.
But if you know what you're looking for, yeah, we'll come right up.
Absolutely.
So they have a sheet of carbon nanotubes and they run a voltage through it
and it creates a Mirage Effect, which bends the light around it.
So.
Whoa, that's way easier than a warp drive, bro.
So if you got warp drive, you can you can invisible.
You got visibility cloaks, bro.
This is underwater.
Yes, and it's underwater.
Actually, so explain to me how this is happening.
So what happens, right, is they run a voltage through those carbon nanotubes,
which are like what's a carbon nanotube?
So like think of like graphing, you know, almost like a super almost like a real
real, almost like a superconductor, but not quite a superconductor.
So it's real high,
really low electrical resistance in these things.
They run a high voltage through it.
It produces a massive amount of heat locally very quickly.
So so it's heating up to like like maybe.
I don't know, like four or five thousand degrees at a very small point
on the surface of that.
And that temperature inversion creates a creates a warping of the space.
And this happens, actually.
You ever heard of Fata Morgana?
No.
So type in F A T A.
Morgana.
So a Fata Morgana is another type of mirage.
It's called the Flying Dutchman because it's where like ships will appear to be
floating slightly above the surface of the water.
OK, yeah.
And that's caused by if you see that graph, the the color, the red, the reddish one,
the reddish picture, that's the one.
Yeah, you get a bigger, you got to get a bigger version of that.
There has to be a bed of really hot air on top of a bed of cold air.
And that that
see the super hot air and that layer between the hot air and the cold air is
where that refractive index is key.
The refractive index is key because when that refractive index changes rapidly,
there's a reflection off there.
So you're actually getting a reflection off of that temperature gradient.
Same way that you're getting a reflection of the mirage off the temperature
gradient in those carbon nanotubes.
So it's that's how visibility works, man.
We you are blowing my fucking mind.
Our ice melted.
I got to get us some more ice.
Well, let's let's don't pause.
Just keep running it.
I'm going to go grab some ice.
It's going about to get real.
Do you need to wet my whistle if we're going to get deeper than this?
Right. So it's the same idea.
You have a surface of hot air or a hot a hot
the temperature gradient creates a an inversion effect where you have
a refractive index and that's the same effect that you look at the hot road on
a hot sunny day and you get that mirage effect looking down, right?
Exactly. Same thing in a desert.
You see that when you look at like a telephoto shot of a desert.
You can see it and people are walking down the road.
The surface of the sand or the road is hotter than the surrounding air, right?
The sun's right there and that that temperature gradient
a layering effect creates it creates.
So is there any proof that this is actually being used in defense research or any kind
of like technology bigger than something in a fishbowl?
Yeah, well, there's so they started the again.
I mentioned the Project Rainbow is the U.S.
Invisibility Project started by Edward Mills.
Project Rainbow so you can search Project Rainbow.
So you're right and they created a number of interesting technologies.
One of them was this is where the metamaterials first kind of got their background.
So yeah, you're not maybe not get it for that.
But look up on wallpaper, Project Rainbow wallpaper, for example, right?
The other stuff called the wallpaper.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
So they created a grid and they printed on it like a grid with
on the wallpaper and the grid was like a metamaterial that was tuned to the same
frequency as the Russian radar, the radar systems they were trying to be invisible
against and by coating the U2s with the fuselage of the U2 with this wallpaper
stuff, they were able to make it invisible.
And this was like a very early version was very, of course,
it was very thick and heavy and it created too much drag and other other problems
for the craft to really be usable and effective.
But that was like the big thing because, you know,
they started the Russians were tracking our U2 flights as you know, as early as the
50s, we were trying to figure out how to how we can get these these programs to go
over when this was Lockheed that made this.
Yeah, maybe developed by the Lincoln Lab team
at Lockheed. Yeah, yeah, it was Lockheed.
Yeah, so so then they had some of these other ideas for for how to how to do it,
including that, yeah, the trapeze reflectors and stuff.
But eventually this this stuff
developed into a study on materials themselves.
So it's actually the paint that the black paint they use on the SR 71,
which replaced the U2 for as a recon plane.
And also the paint that's on the F 117.
It's this black, very dull black paint, right?
It's actually Brett was talking about this when you guys were on when you were on
his show, yeah, briefly.
Yeah, so they actually figured out it's made out of barium titanate,
a version of barium titanate and
which is a ferroelectric and it has an interesting radar response.
So they use this paint with
metamaterials built into the paint to make it more radar absorbent.
And they burned a bunch of this stuff out.
Because they have to replace, they have to scrape off and replace the paint very
often because it's it's very susceptible to weather and other things.
In order to keep it fresh,
it costs a ton of money to maintain and to repaint these things and do it.
And also the toxicity of disposing of this stuff, they were burning in open burn pits
at an area 51 and a bunch of guards got sick.
You can look up a case of the guy, the guy's name is Fred Dunham.
And he's one of the guards that got like super sick from these open burn pits.
So they were actually burning the stuff and people were breathing in and getting
sick out there as a way to dispose of the technology, supposedly, so that it wouldn't get out.
But yeah, that's it's there is evidence of them using this, yes, on active craft.
There it is.
And is there any like has there ever been any footage of what we saw on those little
tubes inside the water of basically the thing becoming invisible?
Oh, of like, well, it looks this cloaking technology.
So if you look up, look up BAE stealth tanks.
So they have these polychromatic.
This is the earlier version of this is a very a different version.
So they use these polychromatic hexagon.
BAE is what?
BAE is British Aerospace or something like this.
It used to be Marconi.
Believe it or not, look at that tank.
Look at the look like all the guys standing next to it right over there.
Holy shit.
Look at that thing, dude.
It's like a Tesla tank.
Yeah.
So those those hexagon panels on the side of it can change the color and they can
also they change color to make it like visual camouflage, but they they can also
change heat signature with infrared.
So look at that that image with where the tank is in the infrared.
The infrared one
in the middle on the bottom.
Oh, right there, yeah.
So that's the tank and then it activates the panels and it looks like an SUV
out there from the heat signature because it changes.
It cools the other panels and heats the other ones up.
Oh, wow.
Yes, it's.
I don't know what BAE actually stands for.
I thought it stood for like British
aerospace like the British version of Lockheed or something like that.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, by the way, you know where Britain's Area 51 is?
No, Porton Down.
What's the significance of Porton Down?
Porton Down is where the area that's Britain's Area 51.
Where they do all their classified, you know, aerospace and physics research.
What country?
What country do you think has the most sophisticated US?
Definitely US.
Yeah, we definitely, definitely have the other countries beat.
What makes you think that makes you sure about that?
Yeah, I'm not so sure.
China, the thing is, China has a lot of us be in the academic literature on some
of the stuff they are a decade ahead of us on a lot of the stuff.
And also our electronics.
I mean, they produce all of our cutting edge electronics.
In fact, the Pentagon's put out reports about, you know,
warning us about how, you know, we don't catch up to China soon.
We're going to have real problems because, you know, even even with the computer
issue with all the computers, the Pentagon's computers, you know,
that you can't find, you can't buy a computer
anywhere that doesn't have a Chinese chip in it or Chinese manufacturer.
So so like they're finding all these hardware problems with these little tiny
chips that have these call home functions or other things that are built into these
circuit boards that are contacting Chinese servers and sharing information.
You know, so like they they have all these problems and holes.
And it's like a crisis right now in the Pentagon to try to to try to get our
own manufacturing infrastructure for integrated electronics and computer chips
and stuff going here so that we don't have to be so reliant on China and
for this kind of stuff.
But also as far as like, you know, the some of these, you know,
Pilaraton condensates and all that entanglement and those type of technologies
is way more papers that I find in the academic literature from Chinese
universities than I do from the American universities, which is, you know,
disturbing because it's like we're not spending enough time and we're not taking
this seriously enough and looking into it enough and China is.
And if we don't pay attention soon, they're going to be decked.
They could be decades ahead of us within a short period of time.
But as far as, you know, as far as the actual development of it and application
of it, this the US has has done more as far as I'm aware.
I mean, this this stuff that I know about that the US has done and I know.
I mean, I don't know how I'd know about China doing any of it.
But there's obviously a lot of espionage going on.
So the Chinese are they copy everything that we do.
So right.
That's a whole other issue.
So I want to I want to tie this back into these.
So you have all these spoofing technologies.
You have all these, you know, technologies that can be used to fake UFOs and different
different, yeah, confused for UFOs.
Right.
Then you have the issue that there might be real UFOs out there.
Of course, you know,
I like to think of the prime directive
interpretation of, you know, why the solution to the Fermi Paradox.
So like this, all this statistics and stuff say the aliens should be out there.
Why aren't they contacting it?
Why don't we see them?
Right. Where are they?
And I like the zoo, Zoo Hypothesis is my favorite.
You know, it's called the Zoo Hypothesis that we're we're being
we're being we're like a zoo and they're just observers, but they're hidden from us.
So we can't see them.
They keep themselves hidden and they they kind of watch.
Yeah, it's like almost there.
It's like almost like they're they're mocking us or messing with us to the point
where like when you think of UFOs, they are they show themselves enough to where
they can convince the person willing to believe, but they can't convince the skeptic.
Right. Right.
And the other thing is that
right in Star Wars, there's no actual like there's no real solid evidence of it.
Right. Like there's just that little bit they give you.
Right. And well, it's also the Star Trek.
In Star Trek, they have this thing called the Prime Directive.
One of my favorite episodes of Star Trek is called Who Watches the Watchers?
And it's about them watching this Bronze Age civilization.
And one day, their invisibility cloak malfunctions and fails.
And someone from the Bronze Age civilization discovers their outpost and sees them.
And then so he goes back and starts telling, you know, all the villagers about what he saw.
And so they want to kind of correct him and they show him,
they bring him up on the spaceship and try to show him a couple things and explain
stuff to him and then send him back.
And it just you can see the details as he tells it to all the villagers.
It just morphs into a religion and all these other things
very quickly from from his experience of his interaction with these higher beings.
And it just and then they set up this thing of all the Prime Directive.
We shouldn't have any contact with non warp civilizations.
So, you know, once you once you discover warp drive and you can open up the cosmos,
then, you know, then we'll make contact.
But pre warp civilizations, we don't make contact with.
And I like I like that.
I like that idea very much.
And there's no proof or, you know, evidence for it.
I just I think that's the one that resonates with me the best.
And then obviously resonated well with Gene Roddenberry as well.
We wouldn't put anything that we can't understand,
something that's way too advanced for us.
We think of it just to be God.
You know, like there's all those famous paintings from from the Renaissance era
where there's these paintings depicting a UFO.
There's a there's a famous what is it?
Ezekiel in the Bible.
Ezekiel's wheel.
Yeah. Ezekiel's wheel.
Yeah.
Yeah, the wheel, the wheel and the ring of fire in the sky.
Again, if you were seeing a light
craft that was being propelled by, you know, trapped in and light energy,
how would you describe it?
Sounded like that. God.
Ring of fire. Sounds like God.
Yeah. A lot of the angels stories sound like like too.
One of the things I want to say about the you about aliens and species and stuff.
Yes.
I made like a video back in the day where I talked about this idea that just
imagine that we had gene editing technology where we could go in and change
anything we wanted and we wanted to create a perfect space faring race.
Because we're not really built for outer space, man.
Like astronauts who go into space for a long time have have lots of problems.
And so we're not like we're built for we're built for Earth.
Not even outer space, just like outer orbit.
Yeah, outer orbit, like the stuff that happens.
So so imagine we were going to re engineer our bodies and make some adaptations.
You know, so let's add some chlorophyll to our skin so that we don't have to eat.
We can just use sunlight and let's, you know, we'll make our eyes
way better at seeing, you know, we can add some more spectrum.
You know, we can expand the actual color spectrum of what we see.
You know, did you know that there's pit vipers that can see infrared and there's
also butterflies can see like high ultraviolet like a whole another range
of frequencies that we can't and birds can too, like like flowers and other stuff
look different to insects and birds and stuff that they do to us.
Different colors show up different ways and and and whatnot.
So imagine we could like incorporate all that into our our eyes.
So we make our eyes really big so they can, you know,
see really well in the dark and low space and also see really good,
good at our voice box, you know, make it so that we can make any animal sound or
any noise or any, you know,
you know, you know, stuff like that we could you could edit and just gene code.
And eventually you'd end up with something that looks like an alien gray,
you know, like big eyes and green skin and, you know, all these things.
So suction cups on the ends of the fingers was another interesting thing they
described, because if you're going to manipulate things in space,
you want to be able to do it with one finger and all you need is a suck.
If you have an octopus suction cup on the end of your finger,
it's really easy to pick stuff up and move it around.
That was another interesting thing that was.
Yeah, I'm sure you're familiar with the Rua Zimbabwe UFO.
Yeah, that Zimbabwe UFO where there was, I think, 60 school children.
The aerial school aerial school in Zimbabwe.
Yeah, there are 60 school children who all reported a very similar incident of
these crafts that landed outside of the playground and these beings that came out
and then like communicated with them telepathically.
That's interesting.
And they all had the Harvard psychologist, psychiatrist, John Mack,
went there and he interviewed all of the kids separately and they all they didn't
have like perfect.
Their stories weren't like perfectly similar,
but they were they varied a little bit, right?
Like they each had a different experience, but it was all generally the same.
They all they all said that they when they looked into these things,
eyes, they had this this feeling or thought of technology is bad.
And they said that they never talked and they never made a sound,
but they were all standing there talking like looking at them.
And when they looked into their eyes,
they had this sort of like telepathic
communication experience with these things about like the future of technology.
And all and there were 60 of them.
And it's been it's one of the most mind blowing,
like close encounters in history of the world.
Yeah, there is so many witnesses and the kids even to this day, they still recall it.
They still like vividly can recall what happened.
I remember that case.
It's a super interesting case.
And I've seen like a lot of the skeptics, you know, takes on it.
We're like, oh, we could fake this, you know, like, let's see how many school
children think this really we could fake an incident and then see how many school
children would actually believe it happened and other stuff too.
And, you know, there are some technologies
out there that can actually beam voices in your head, voice of God technology.
Right. I've heard of this.
It's called a microwave auditory effect.
I think it was discovered in the late 1960s with a certain frequency
of microwaves can create a clicking sound in your ear or different noises in your ear.
And then they can actually create multiple clicks and then modulate
the clicking frequency and the noise to actually modulate voices and other
signals into your into your using it.
They could actually beam voices inside, you know, inside your ear.
But that's not telepathically.
You'd actually be physically hearing that.
You wouldn't be like thinking and feeling that in your head.
That's another level of technology.
You know what I mean?
That's something different.
If you're like, you know, getting a message in your brain directly beam to you,
that's different than, you know, these technologies that we have, you know,
that's different than voice of God.
These were like these these kids describe them as as feelings or like images in their minds.
Not any kind of like audio.
There's no audio.
It's interesting.
There's so many of them that show up and kind of like, you know,
the kids that say that they were taken on board and shown this like rapid
collage of images of the, you know, the human race and like all the bad things
and stuff that technology is brought and stuff.
And there's other ones that have said that like, oh,
the aliens have warned us that they're us from the future and that we're going to
screw up our genetic code and end up like them and not be able to get back.
And weird stuff like that.
And I think that's kind of scary considering, you know, what we're doing now
with some of the experimental, you know, technologies and in bio and in biology
in general, I think it's like M. R. N. A.
M. R. N. A.
Can edit it's like a genes like CRISPR and they can edit your genes and now
they can do it through your food.
They can put stuff in your food that you can absorb through your digestive system
that will actually activate, you know, and change your RNAs.
So they're talking about this.
They're talking about this and in articles about, you know,
saying that people who don't get the vaccine will be able to just put it in the food.
You know, now if you really did you ask Brett about this?
No, I didn't. I didn't.
But I should I didn't learn about this until afterwards.
But yeah, that's I thought that was like kind of crazy.
Man, that would be good.
That would be a good one. I should ask Brett to talk.
Do you think there's any possibility that these things, these gray aliens,
it seems like that these seem to be the common depiction.
I always wonder like, who is the first person?
To come up with this idea of this being.
And, you know, I always think I always wonder, you know,
especially when you think about alien civilizations and, you know,
with us also the tall grays, there's the short little mini,
the mini ones, the three foot or four foot ones.
And there's also the reptilians, apparently.
Do you think there's any possibility that this could be us from the past?
And it's just like a super advanced version of us that somehow got off the planet.
Yeah, that's another theory, too.
It's like the breakaway civilization theory, you know, it's something else
that got away and then went, you know, light years into the future in a different
timeline or something could be again.
I don't think we know enough about the physics at this point to really to tell one
way or another. I mean, these guys that are saying, well,
if you have warp drive, you have time travel and then you have time travel.
But then I just look at time travel like,
well, if I can just go back and edit any event that ever happened,
then what's reality?
Because I can just go back and, you know, just change it.
You know, right?
So then you get into a whole existential argument and debate there once you get
into if you believe in time travel or not, because.
And I don't believe in time travel in that sense.
I think that, you know, it's allowable within the realm of physics,
but you have to understand that the universe is what's called a discrete event
system. And in control theory, a discrete event system is a system where
discrete events happen independently of one another and sort of tangential
and influence and then cross influence one another like the universe works.
And that's how everyone works in the in this universe, I believe, is that
it's a it's a discrete event system and that in order to reverse time globally,
you'd have to reverse the time in all of those discrete events.
And you can only do time reversals on individual discrete events.
I don't think it's it's possible to do a complete group time reversal on all
these discrete events, because they.
I just don't see it as being possible.
And I wish I was more good with I wish I was better with the mathematics
to be able to prove that with like some kind of theory or something.
But I'm not so right.
Someone else might be and be able to do that.
But, you know, I that's the issue of time travel is if they're if they're beans
from the future and stuff, I don't necessarily believe that.
Although, if, you know, like.
Because you can go further into the future like Buzz Lightyear, you know,
every time he goes further into the future, but he can't go back.
You know, you can you can go far into the future.
You can stay young and go into the future if you stay traveling at light speed forever.
Right. Well, you can't go back before the time travel was created.
Yeah. Right.
Like you can go from whenever we figure out time travel, we can go from then on.
We can travel forward and backwards, but we can't go before we figured out time travel.
Yeah. And that's that's related to that whole event.
Yeah, the system of events and causality and everything.
If you get into the time cones and the
Penrose charts and diagrams and all that stuff.
So that's some interesting, interesting physics, interesting takes on physics.
And but as far as, you know, explaining all the UFOs, I.
I don't think that our scientists are there yet as far as our classified programs,
because I've seen what they're working on the classified programs.
I've seen what DARPA is throwing money at.
And if they had these things, they wouldn't be wasting their time.
You know, I mean, if they had figured this out in the 50s and they had warp drives
and anti gravity, they wouldn't be wasting their time giving, you know,
a couple of million dollars to Mike McCulloch to look into, you know, quantized inertia.
They wouldn't be interested.
You know, they wouldn't be doing the other research they're doing.
Maybe they would just to throw people off.
I don't know. It's it's a it's a hard game to play.
But you're looking at the real scientists and you have to work with what's out there.
Because at the end of the day, I mentioned on Brett's podcast,
who do the science, who do the government go to for answers on UFOs?
At the end of the day, they're asking the scientists, right?
You know, so even if the government is an
authority on this and takes authority there at the end of the day, they're they're
talking to scientists and maybe there's some, you know, scientists out there that
are more privy and access to the information and have more
data sets that aren't available to the public.
And that's what I'm concerned with and
whether those data sets can be made available to the public or not or whether they should.
And, you know, I've kind of gone through that stuff and
deep on this path looking for those answers.
And I'm reporting on everything that I find.
So who are what do you think is responsible
for these Nimitz and East Coast UFOs?
They're so close to our military ranges and our military centers of these
technologies and these, you know, SoCal test range and Camp Pendleton right there.
You know, Catalina Island on the West Coast and then Norfolk, Virginia.
There's, you know, military base right there, BAE systems and a bunch of stuff.
It just seems more plausible to me that it's some kind of our own technology that
we're running or testing or doing stuff with.
And then you just say you thought it wasn't that we were not there yet.
Oh, that stuff.
This is what we're seeing.
I don't think is warp drive technology.
I don't think we're seeing.
Oh, OK, you're talking about different.
OK, I see. I'm talking about.
Yeah, that what, as I mentioned, is warp drive technology, like the ability to go
interstellar or OK, or maybe.
But you do.
So these these things that are flying these modern
UFOs that we've been seeing in the past 20 years, you think that those are those?
How are those being propelled?
How what is the means of propulsion with those?
Do you think if they're actual craft and not just like the laser induced
plasmus and holograms and stuff like that, if they're actual craft, then then
they might they're probably drones.
You know, it was interesting.
I did a lot of research into craft and found a lot of drone research connected to this stuff.
In fact, if you read Louis Witton's auto, he did an interview on American Institute
of Physics with and I read it.
And he talks about this work that he did with Martin Mary at a corporation.
He says that in 1947, the first job that he was hired to work on out at Martin
Mary at a corporation was pilotless aircraft.
You know, and.
Not just that, but like control and guidance systems for them and stuff.
So it's it's super interesting that back in the 40s, you know, you have this guy
working on this in this classified program and then he's he's also can, you know,
the guy they picked to look into anti-gravity a couple of years later.
That's I thought that that's super interesting because there's a big overlap
with a lot of this, you know, pilotless UAP and drone technology and this.
There's there's there's so much of it you find.
Like, for instance, a company that merged with them later was called Teledyne
Ryan and Teledyne Ryan did a number of these
craft there, you know, triangular UFOs, a lot of the triangular UFO sightings.
I now believe were Teledyne Ryan's craft and their research that they were doing
back in the 70s and 80s.
They had developed this craft called the TR3A Black Manta.
And it was a little flying triangle wing black triangle and people were seeing
these things all around UAV drone technology.
I just haven't seen anything in video.
And again, I point out and Brett asked me a good great question.
I was just thrown for a loop because, you know, is there any video evidence that you
do find like super convincing?
You know, and I'm not interested in video evidence because, you know,
the skeptics aren't convinced by it.
And I pointed out that, you know, 1993 had that one video that looked cool with
the crop circles in the UFO that made the crop circles.
But 1993 is also not familiar with that video.
There was a video that apparently this guy had a camera set up over watching
the field and caught a UFO made a crop circle and stuff.
It went viral on the internet a ways back like skin walker ranch or something.
No, but I pointed out that 1993 is when Jurassic Park came out.
So they create fake looking real dinosaurs in movies.
Yeah, I don't trust anything I see in video.
I don't know. It can be so easily with CGI.
I said anything before 1993, which is like the quality of film from back then.
Every UFO video is like crap, you know, the probably the best UFO footage that I
would say exists if I were if I really had to think about it and go back is
actually the Mariana UFO footage from the 1950s because it's from the 1950s.
Right.
And it's just it's just an interesting case.
So that that's the Mariana M-A-R-I-A-N-I-A case.
And that's interesting because Dennis Dennis Mariani or it's Mariana is the
yeah and sorry, I'm getting the spelling wrong because I'm thinking two things at
once because Bob Lazarus said his his his his boss at Area 51 was Dennis Mariani.
Oh, we've never been able to find Dennis Mariani.
They never tried.
They got apparently got Mike Figpen and tracked him down.
I haven't seen the evidence for that.
But apparently, who is this guy?
This is Nick Mariana.
OK, so this is Mariana, one of the oldest and most famous UFO cases from,
you know, the 1950s in Montana.
He recorded this early UFO footage.
Mm hmm.
And this is, you know, one of the because you can't by the time video started
getting good, that's when also when CGI started getting good.
So, man, it's like how do you lie on a trust anything?
Right.
This is Alan R.
Win.
This is the film in double frame or slow motion.
Look like tic-tacs, right?
Yeah, movement of the objects as well as the tower is perceptible.
This is due to the handheld camera.
The film analyzed frame by frame shows the movement of the objects to be
horizontal and steady.
We will now vary the action and size of the objects and also stop the action
from time to time for your study.
We have just made a jump cut in the film to an enlarged size and reverse the action.
Yeah, it's again, it's early UFO footage.
Right.
This is probably taken on a eight millimeter, you know.
Yeah, some of the early stuff really boggles my mind because there's a lot of
pilots that have records, you know, that have reports and there's accounts of these
pilots seeing these things like there was a case in the 50s with the swarm of UFOs
that were close to the White House.
Yeah, yeah.
That went past the White House.
They scrambled planes and jets to go like track them down.
There was even a guy who I think shot at one of them.
Yeah, there's there's lots of like Lonnie Zamora.
Yeah, the police officer, the police officer who saw the thing they came and they saw
like they actually found the marks in the ground where they thought that thing where
they saw that where he saw that saucer had landed.
You know, there's just so many old cases that just
scramble my brain when I'm trying to think of this new stuff.
Like, why don't we see that old stuff anymore?
We don't like we don't see any of those traditional flying saucers.
Is Michael Schrat has like a whole archive of all those cases and stuff.
And he draws like the the you know, the pictures of them and stuff and he talks
about the cases and it's it's kind of curious how the stories, the technology
kind of coincides with the literature of the era.
So like the UFOs of the 1950s and 60s look more like Buck Rogers, you know,
and UFOs of today and stuff look, you know, more more like, you know,
I guess like Star Trek or something, you know, like something more modern.
So like the
these things have developed and, you know, on their own too, which also kind of leads
me to the conclusion that these are our our replications of these technologies.
And maybe they fly on some, you know, different principles or something.
Maybe they were experimenting with some neat new technology during the time.
Because we had a space program, bro.
Like I went I went to up to they had the whole Man on the Moon exhibit up in
Boston, and I went to it with I took my kids.
And when I went to that Man on the Moon exhibit,
they had all the stuff from the space program.
And I was just I was I was like I felt like the like I was like going over more
stuff than they had on the plaques and telling more history about everything
than they were telling on all the plaques and stuff.
And I just was like a stonest that there's this whole period there from like
nineteen, you know, 45 to 1958 that they just completely left out.
You know, they said like, oh, well, just 1958, you know, we started NASA.
And we had a space program.
No, we had a secret space program for like a decade and a half before that became
NASA. And then we had that we had NACA and a bunch of other organizations that,
you know, we're running a lot of these, you know, programs and stuff like
AIMS research labs and the AIMS scientists and stuff.
And that's fascinating because you look at the Beiffel Brown case, right?
Guy was it discovered this effect in 1928,
was trying to like get it out there and talk about it.
Finally met with some people from the military, gave a whole presentation on it
in the 1940s, they told him he was crazy.
Go home.
And then they went and hired a bunch of AIMS
scientists to do the research instead.
And, you know, so that that's kind of what they do in the public domain,
they ridiculed it, discredited it in the public domain.
Then they threw this guy to the curb, said,
you're ridiculous, this doesn't work and there's nothing to it.
And then they went and funded a research study into it with some of their own
scientists behind the scenes.
So this seems to be like a recurring theme in a lot of these, you know,
topics like, you know, cold fusion came up in the 80s and they, you know,
debunked it very thoroughly in the mainstream press
and with some experiments and then it kind of disappeared.
And and but they research, they've been, you know,
the spay war in the US Navy is still researching cold fusion to this day.
So like they're still looking into it,
even though they covered it up and suppressed it and they didn't want it to get out.
It's almost like what it seems.
But then there's also egos involved with a lot of the people that that jumped on
the board from both sides as well.
So there's a cold fusions, a whole another interesting animal of itself.
What is cold fusion?
So cold fusion is now, I guess, a lot of the scientists like to call it LENR or
lattice assist LENR, lattice assisted nuclear reaction or low energy nuclear reaction.
And it's this idea that,
you know, normal fusion, what you have is the Coulomb barrier and the Coulomb
barrier is the force between, you know, two to nuclei.
And as you try to move the nuclei together,
the positive charges repel and they push each other apart.
So the harder you try to push them together, the more they push apart.
And there's this barrier that if you can push them together with enough force and
energy, you can get them to stick together and get a little bit extra energy out of
it because the mass drops and some of that mass gets released as energy.
There's a conversion equals MC squared.
Right.
So you get a little bit of that mass out as energy from the fusion process.
But pushing these things to the Coulomb barrier is very difficult.
You got to use these, you know, magnetic bottles like the Itar or the
Takamak reactors and stuff.
And or you have to use in the sun, a lot of gravity and a lot of, you know, heat.
So the heat gets these molecules going really fast and the gravity pushes them
really close together.
So their quantum mechanical behavior of them moving really fast plus being in close
proximity allows for the tunneling through that Coulomb barrier and allows for fusion.
Although we're not exactly quite sure how that process takes place
even on the sun, you know, this debate about that.
So but in these low energy nuclear actions,
what you're having is the first experiment that Pons and Fleischman did is they
packed a ton of deuterium.
So deuterium is hydrogen with an extra neutron.
So it's heavy, it's it's heavy.
It doesn't change the atomic number.
It just changes the weight of it.
So it's a little it's it's like hydrogen, but it's extra heavy.
And then they pump that into a lattice of palladium using electricity.
So they have the deuterium in heavy water and solution.
And then they charge the water
and then charge the cathode.
And so like the deuterium and all the molecules get absorbed into the cathode
and they get packed into this lattice structure of the metal.
And as they get packed into the lattice structure of the metal,
they become really, really close to one another.
And something about that in the physics of that lattice structure,
once they get to about a ninety four percent loading,
they start to see these fusion effects in the in the cathodes.
And this has been confirmed by a number of labs and a number of scientists
who have replicated and done this research and have been trying to figure out ways
to extract usable energy from it.
And so far, no one's done that.
But there's a big debate and controversy over over it.
And there has been for 30 years now,
since the 1980s, when Pons and Fleishman first went forward with that discovery.
It was called it was it was highly criticized because they wanted
they thought that it would get shut down.
So they wanted to create a press conference to get the information out there.
And so they were criticized heavily for doing science by press conference instead
of science by the academic and peer review method.
But as science has shown in the 30 years
past, that that method and that that, you know,
approach has failed tremendously in science has failed science tremendously.
In fact,
before we created these these journals and all this
this sort of stuff, there was a much more free and open science and people were
more free to experiment and create new ideas.
But we've sort of with this peer review process and this this method,
we've stifled a lot of a lot of new thinking and new ideas and,
you know, enforced a lot of old beliefs.
And we've seen that happen through science and history with like plate
tectonics or the pilt down man or other other scientific discoveries or
revolutions or controversies.
So it's interesting what's happening in science right now.
I don't necessarily believe that peer review is all bad.
It's good to have, you know, people who are on your level and do the work you do,
reviewing your work.
But I also see how it could be used manipulatively in certain situations.
So I like what we're doing.
We kind of have this open source disclosure approach where we're trying to just
put the information out there just to get it out there.
And then we have the experimental side where we try to, you know,
verify or get results with it.
And that's also open source so that
you don't get the information out there a little bit easier.
Because again, you're dealing with this massive secrecy in this wall of information
where you're trying to get data
and trying to sort that out from the crap, you know, where's the noise and where's
the signal, you know, because some of this stuff is real and can be used for real
things and some of it can.
What are the limitations of that?
Like how good is it and how well does it explain this or that?
Yeah, this is an open field, man.
And I look at like what's going on in the mainstream media and to bring
technology and not include technology in this conversation is is is a sin.
Entertainment is a huge driver of this topic, right?
There's so much money in the documentaries and the history channel TV shows.
Yeah, that just attract the layman to just be you got it.
You got to add in the drama to get normal people interested in this stuff, right?
You can't just talk about particle physics and photons and neutrons.
I lose everyone.
I probably lost half your audience.
No, I guarantee you that's not true.
But for the layman, for the average,
I hope they're looking it up and trying to like learn more about it and stuff.
So because I am too, man, for the average working class person that's sitting at
their, you know, in their living room in Bumfuck, Montana, that I was watching
the history channel about Skinwalker Ranch or about, you know,
Bob Lazar area 51, it's like infotainment, right?
So it's information, but it's dramatized and it's turned into a TV of a piece
of art, like a movie to make people to draw people in.
But what's good about that is it brings more money into the topic.
Yeah, it creates an economy that money.
Well, no matter who's get doesn't matter who's get it.
I think even if it is the TV company is getting the money,
it's creating an economy around this topic, which I think is only going to draw
in more people to this topic, right?
It's going to that will essentially drive more interest, more people like you,
you know, more people even younger than you who are just going to see a podcast
like this one day and decide to dedicate the rest of their lives to studying
physics and just figuring out how this shit works.
I mean, that's what that's what I dreamed of.
And you know, what's awesome is that I started my channel in 2008 and I've
gotten to see the people that like started watching me early on,
go through, you know, go through undergraduate and then, you know,
some of them have gone through grad school and seeing people that like got
inspired by me talking about this kind of stuff to go and study physics on their
own and some of them, you know, come back to me and they're like, you know,
thank you or years later, I even have, you know, grad students and PhDs and stuff
that like, dude, thank you for this or that, you know, like I have people that wrote
their PhD thesis based on stuff that they learned about on my channel,
which is like, that's awesome, bro.
That that is where we need this to be.
And that gives me so much hope for the future, because if we don't have people
thinking about these things critically and really understanding, you know,
our universe and the science and the technology that's out there,
we're not going to ever be able to figure this stuff out.
And if we're just diving into this world where we're mixing it with the paranormal
and, you know, werewolves and dino beavers and all this other stuff,
I think we lose a lot of that, a lot of that and like the ghosts and stuff.
That stuff's cool.
And I see how some people just like are drawn to those topics because there is
so much mystery and intrigue.
What do you think about Robert Bigelow speaking of ghosts?
Bob Bigelow.
Bob Bigelow is an interesting guy.
You know, he's super interested in the UFO topic and he's got a ton of money.
So that's that's kind of how he got into it.
He's always been fascinated by.
Did you watch his interview with Joe Rogan?
Yeah, I watched it with his interview with Joe Rogan and then once he did with George NAP.
He's talking about like this remote viewing technology.
He's talking about poltergeist in his house.
I mean, he got sucked sucked into a lot of like real crazy weird stuff.
I think, unfortunately,
you know, a lot of that stuff is tied up in these programs, too.
As I believe counterintelligence to sort of like right,
just confuse and muddy the waters and confuse the issues and then also mix up
the alien stuff with, you know, just nonsense so that people, you know,
scientists and other people don't take it, take the other stuff.
Cattle mutilations.
Yeah, the cattle mutilations is another thing.
I brought that up on Brett's podcast and I talked about the mirage men thing.
And I had a bunch of people like, you know, talking about
different ideas on that, you know, why wouldn't the military just pay for the cattle?
You know, why would they just buy it or set it, you know, like, well,
obviously they can't directly be buying the cattle.
They don't want people to know so they can set up a front company or something else.
You know, easily they do it all the time to just buy the cattle.
So if any for let's kind of like lay some context to this.
Yeah, OK.
Sorry, I'm just jumping into that and people haven't seen that.
So this is a movie called Mirage Men and
this in Mirage Men, they kind of did this investigation into into this cattle
mutilation thing where they talk about this operation or project plowshare.
It was called it was a series of
nuclear tests that they did underground during the time.
And so they were burying these noobs deep in the ground like broken arrow where
they might huge mining tunnel, send a nuke down there on a train and blow it off.
And then they were trying to monitor the spread of the radioactivity
to see if they were contaminating groundwater and other things.
So apparently
they were the ones abducting these cattle or taking these cattle and cutting
the thyroid glands out in order to test the thyroid.
Your thyroid has iodine and it has uptake of iodine.
So if there's radioactive iodine
that's produced from nuclear fallout or from a blast, it's going to end up in the
environment and it's going to get picked up immediately by your thyroid gland.
That's why a lot of people develop thyroid cancer from the radioactive iodine that
your thyroid gland absorbs.
So
one way to test how this contamination is getting out into the environment is to
take local animals and cut out their thyroid glands and test the iodine levels
for the radioactive isotope.
And so if you're going to do this and you don't want the public to know about it,
you might cut out other things like their tongues and their eyeballs
and their livers and you might drop them from helicopters and do other weird things.
Apparently this is what they alleged in the Mirage Men interview that the military
was doing to cover up for the fact that they were just testing for this underground
nukes and they didn't want people to know about the radiation and what was really
going on.
And it's all a big cover story for
nuclear tests and and and medical examinations of farm animals that they
didn't want to just buy and pay for.
It seems kind of crazy and elaborate.
You know, a lot of people have pointed that out and stuff.
You know, and
you know, Linda Moulton-Howe was the researcher that researched a lot of this.
Bob Bigelow knew Linda Moulton-Howe.
I heard that they had dated for a while, but people attacked me.
And so that was never confirmed.
And his wife is, you know, about that.
I don't know what the deal is, because Robert Bigelow was married and stuff.
So I don't know what the whole relationship with him and Linda Moulton-Howe was.
But for some reason, Bigelow decided to, you know,
pay Linda Moulton-Howe's rent for five years so that she could
investigate these cattle mutilations and get to the bottom of that.
And of course, she, you know, concluded that it was aliens doing it.
And, you know, that would have been perfect if it if it was that plowshare
narrative, but other people have pointed out some, you know,
interesting things that maybe I agree, it would have been easier for them to create
a front company and just buy out the cattle.
You know, that seems like a much more.
You know, training them.
I mean, there's like they've be some of these farmers found their cows with
all the blood drained out of them, like, like ridiculous, stacked on top of each other.
It's interesting because I've talked to a couple.
One of the guys I met out in Colorado when I lived there was Chuck Zuckowski.
And he's got the license plate UFO nut for Colorado.
And he's investigated.
He's a police officer, actually.
He's like law enforcement training.
And he did a number of these cattle
mutilation investigations out there.
And he's got some interesting views on that stuff, too.
And, you know, again,
it seems plausible that if I was an alien visiting here, that I would take genetic
samples from, you know, what are they eating? Oh, they eat these things.
Let's see what they're made of.
You know, just makes sense that they, you know,
aliens came here, they would collect those kinds of things and take data, you know,
they would take, you know, they would harvest organs and harvest, you know,
you know, look at we cows, what are they made of?
What's going on with these people?
You know, it just seems like something that aliens would do.
So, you know, again, it's one of those things that that kind of confuses and baffles
me as well, because, you know, you can you can come up with these skeptical,
plausible, like alternative explanations for things.
But then, you know, those kind of seem a little bit outlandish in and of themselves,
too, sometimes, you know, when you consider the other things that they've done
to cover up stuff, it's quite easy to create a front company and buy a bunch of cows,
you know, like and and not have to create this whole elaborate scheme.
But then again, when you have someone like Linda out there creating it for you,
again, I pointed out that that's the easiest way to do disinformation is to find
someone else who's already confused or misinformed and just prop them up and let
them promulgate it.
And you'll find very often that, you know, organic misinformation works the best
because it's what people already believe.
And that's one of the reasons I think Skinwalker Ranch was chosen as a
location for some of this stuff because of all the legends that it was this place
that's haunted and, you know,
habitated by spirits, you know, the stories from the Native Americans about the place.
But it's interesting because a lot of the stuff that seems to be going on out there
sounds like some of this electronic warfare technology, like the spoofing
technology, the laser holograms or the voice in the ear or, you know,
some of the stuff that these people have seen out there sounds a lot like some
of these technologies to me, anyways, is my skeptical, rational explanation of
trying to come up with explanations for this stuff.
And it reminds me of this place.
I don't know if you've ever heard of Camp Hero before.
Yes, I have heard of that.
So Camp Hero was this
facility out on the end of Montauk Island and Montauk is Long Island, New York.
So right on the tip of Long Island is Camp Hero.
You can look this up and there's this radar station and there's this whole
military facility that was out there.
And you remember you watch Stranger Things?
Yes. So episode one, you remember like the first season of Stranger
season one, sorry, the first season of Stranger Things, they have that facility
out on the end of the island and the government runs it and this whole setup
out there. Yeah, or they have where they had like that hole that goes into the
upside down. Is that what you're talking about?
Yeah, and they're doing all this research out there into this crazy weird stuff.
That's about Russians.
That's based on Montauk.
That's based on Camp Hero.
The real story, it's based on a real story of the research that went on out
on the end of Long Island and the rumors that would go on around people who live
near there because, you know, you take a ride at night and stuff and go down the
island and realize, oh, there's a military base and I can't get down there.
And what the heck are they doing out there?
And there's weird stuff going on because they have this really large
high power radar tower that was set up out there that could that could do a lot
of interesting things.
And this is right around the time they were researching Project Rainbow and
doing a lot of the EMF response technology.
So that there's a whole another subsection of that, I believe, that was handled
under MKUltra, where they were specifically looking for EMF responses
and biological systems, so they're looking for signals that can affect biology.
So and and if you look this up, you can actually, if you go to icnirp.org
.
OK, there's a whole organization.
icnirp.org
and there's a whole organization that does research into radiation
and harmful effects.
OK, you look at the arm.
Yeah, so the RF, EMF guidelines.
So there's a whole report that they publish every year.
This report is very interesting because you can get this.
It's a couple hundred pages.
The bibliography of this report is is key if you want to research this kind
of stuff, because in that bibliography of that report, you're going to find every
single study that's ever been done on frequencies that interact with biological
systems, the bad frequencies that fuck up your biology, basically.
And there's a lot of them, apparently, you know, you get the right frequency,
the right amplitude, you can do things in the human body and they're different
for different people, because we all have different bio biogenmetrics and stuff.
The resonant frequency might be a little bit different for your
pituitary gland than it is for mine, because yours might be a little bit
different shape or size.
So they have to tune these things specifically.
But I believe that, you know, if they did an EMF project with Project Rainbow
to study all the EMF responses and the materials and different arrangements
of materials and they had to have done one with biological systems.
And MK Ultra, again, there's a lot of sub projects.
There was over a hundred something sixty eight, maybe a hundred something sub
projects of MK Ultra and in it, you'll find one of them where they they looked
into some of this stuff, these these frequencies that would
interact with biological organisms.
And I think that that's the research that they started out on Camp Hero and Montauk,
Virginia, and then they needed a place to move this research,
you know, because rumors were going around and other things were just causing
too much problems where it was.
So they need to look for a new home for that.
And if I were doing electronics warfare and that kind of research and I needed
a new home for something like that, Skinwalker Ranch would be my number one
choice. Do you know why? Why?
Because everything could be blamed on all the legends and all the paranormal
stuff that has the history of it.
So I can have a what year are we talking again?
What year are we talking when all this stuff was going on?
Project Rainbow and Camp Hero?
That was like this project Rainbow started at fifty eight, fifty eight.
Right. So throughout the sixties,
maybe the seventies is when they shut down Camp Hero.
This maybe a little bit of gap period of time for when Skinwalker Ranch was first,
you know, Bigelow bought it first and started running some of this stuff.
And he brought in NIDS and some of these other teams to run these
investigations.
And I think that, you know, Bigelow working with these aerospace defense
contracts, working close to, you know, with Bigelow Aerospace,
trying to get into this stuff may have been involved in some of some of this
research or contracts and stuff.
That's my theory on on Skinwalker Ranch is that it was Camp Hero 2.0,
that they chose it as a place because of the paranormal history to run these
experiments so that they, you know, if anything got uncovered or got loose,
they could just be like, well, it's ghosts and dino beavers and poltergeists
and stuff, and they could also use that to mix in a lot of the.
I don't know.
It just seems like a lot of counterintelligence
because to me, because I can't, I can't make sense of it any other way.
Well, it's like the number one show on History Channel now.
So you think they're still doing it there?
I don't number one show on the history.
Probably. Jesus.
Probably.
I'm surprised.
I'm, you know, it nothing surprises me anymore.
But again, I have not watched a single episode and I watched a couple and I could.
I could barely get through one.
It was so cringe.
It is so hard to get.
It's so.
I watched a couple of the technical
explanations with Travis Taylor as their lead scientist.
And again, this is a guy who he's got a history of research with all this laser
technology and laser induced plasma technology.
He's got patent, you know, he's got papers written on this.
He did a lot of research on this stuff.
So he's connected.
He's one of the guys that is connected to this stuff.
So that makes me suspicious of the whole thing.
I don't know how I talked about this before when I had James Fox on here.
I told him that I think shows like that do this subject to discredit.
I do, too.
I believe they do.
Absolutely.
I wouldn't have started my podcast if it weren't for shows like what I what I would
watch, the one of the ones I watched was Michelle Kaku back in like the early 2000s.
He did this one of like the UF with the government recover a saucer.
And what would the technologies be that would be on it?
And he talked about metamaterial.
No, he talked about invisibility cloaks, but he never mentioned metamaterials.
And I was like, come on, man, you're not like how can you be a sign like this
top theoretical physicist and scientist talking about these things but not know
about what's out there in the literature?
What's already out there?
Like, why are you not talking about this and this and this and this and this?
He's got a new book coming out about quantum.
Yeah, quantum entanglement.
What's that? What's his new?
What's his new book?
Google, Michio Kaku's new book.
I'll have to check that out, man, because, you know, Kaku's interesting.
He's done a 180 on the UFO topic, but I really didn't like his stance and what he
said about the UFO topic, you know, he like now the burden of proof has shifted, you know?
He said like, oh, it used to be on us to prove that these things, you know,
but now we have to prove that these aren't real.
And like, no, that's nothing to do with what's going on right now.
I just felt like I don't want to supremacy.
How the quantum computer revolution will change everything.
Oh, that sounds interesting.
Yeah, Kaku would be super.
I would love to have a sit down conversation with him where we could just get into it,
you know, on some of the stuff, man, because that that would that would get super deep.
Quick, if we could put a panel together with like Kaku, Weinstein,
Bob Lazar, Bob Lazar, it's got to be on there.
I don't I guarantee you and I'll bet you anything is like he will not be on Joe
Rogan ever again. I you can mark my words and I'll bet you I'll make a bet with you
that he will not debate Weinstein and he will not go on Joe Rogan again.
I don't think he's going to I think he's going to fade out of the public domain,
you know, he just moved he moved United Nuclear from Michigan to Oregon.
He's got a new setup out there.
He's got an 11 acre horse form that he lives on with his wife out there now.
And I think he's just going to retire and say, forget all this.
I guarantee you, I just don't see it happening, bro.
As much as I would love to see that and it would be awesome.
My prediction right now is that he's going to fade out and he's just going to
just going to drop out altogether.
That's my prediction anyway.
What what is the biggest pushback that you get on this shit?
Obviously, you have a lot of critics and you have a lot of people attacking you
for your positions on all this stuff.
What I mean, some people consider you a quote unquote skeptic.
But like what is the most prevalent pushback that you get?
Well, I mean, I'm on Twitter a lot.
So UFO Twitter is just notorious with these defenders of TTSA.
And when I spoke out about TTSA and some of my criticisms of them early on.
TTSA.
So TTSA was to the Stars Academy and that was Tom DeLong and Chris Mellon,
Lou Elizondo, and there was a CIA guy, Jim Semivan, Semivan.
Yeah, yeah, Hal put off a number of these other guys that all came forward and said
that they were going to release, they were going to build a spaceship for us if we
funded it and they were going to release free energy and anti-gravity technology.
That was all in their first press conference thing.
And I had been researching anti-gravity for 10 years at that point.
And I was like, there is no F in way.
And I was super vocal about that.
I even started my own company to try to compete with them for who's going to make
the real anti-gravity technology and who's going to release more real information
about it. And I was just criticizing everything that they put out because
they weren't talking about any physics, any real technology.
They were just making promises.
They didn't even have a science division.
They ended up shutting down the science division after they started and just
focusing purely on the entertainment division.
And I was just like, I predicted it all right from the start.
And I called it out and but I had tons of people just give me all this backlash.
And then my questions about these guys and their credibility and what they're
doing in ufology and do we need them? Are they helping?
Yeah, they got a New York Times article.
They got a bunch of attention to the subject.
But what if the purpose was all to create a bunch of smoke and mirrors and then have
it all get a ton of attention and then debunk it?
You know, that would be like what I would do if I was the Pentagon and I wanted to
run a PsyOP and get rid of all this stuff, I would hire a bunch of guys, pump it up,
hype it up, hype up a whole bunch of fake crap for as long as I could.
And then just until everyone got tired or burnt out or I debunked it all.
And, you know, and I really feel like the the when they pulled the plug
full fully was Super Bowl weekend with those those three UFOs that were shot
down in the same weekend and they were just like it's Chinese spy balloons.
Right. That was just like Roswell, you know, 1997 US Air Force all over again.
Yes.
Was interesting about the US Air Force.
In 1997, they had the whole, you know, they they released a new report on Roswell
and they did this public press conference and the opening line of that press conference.
The first thing that the DOD says is, wow, look at all the people here.
If only we could get this many people to, you know, pay attention to aerospace defense.
You know, we'd be doing something productive here.
You know, so it's like that right there was like,
they must have realized, wow, this way too much, you know, we're not going to fight this.
We have you can't beat them.
You have to join them.
You know what I mean?
At that point, they must have realized that you cannot you cannot like your
denials are just creating more contra, you know, when they came out with that report
and then a year later after that report,
Corso publishes book the day after Roswell,
I almost felt like that was disinformation or disinformation as well put out by the
Air Force because like the timing of it was just too
too close and then the technologies that Corso mentioned were none of the real
technologies and it was all technologies that I found had traceable sources to,
you know, human inventors and human scientists who built and worked on these things.
Some of the other stuff is is is I've traced it to humans too,
like the invisibility stuff and the metamaterials.
It goes back to Project Rainbow and all that the classified stuff they were working on
and different, you know, EMF responses that they were observing and things.
So there's a lot of this that's just you think it's aliens because it seems like
it came from nowhere, but it really came from these, you know,
classified programs or these scientists who worked on it for their entire life.
And even if it wasn't classified, it's just obscurity.
So it's a scientist that worked on it and just nobody knows about it except,
you know, very, very few people.
So yeah, one of the I think one of the
most impactful things, one of the most impactful quotes from your conversation
with Eric was when you were talking about disclosure, when it comes to like
New York Times and looking to like the biggest irony in this whole disclosure
movement is that we deeply distrust, we deeply distrust authority while
simultaneously looking at authority for verification of all this stuff.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
You know, yeah, that's that was that's a good point
because that just brings it all full circles because like, who do you trust at
the end of the day? And the only thing I trust is what I can verify, you know,
with my own, you know, research or experiment or evidence or something.
And, you know, some of the stuff is you just have to like accept it as a mystery.
And maybe you're never going to get to the bottom of it.
And some of it you have to,
you know, think about it outside the box that other people, other researchers
before you haven't approached this this topic or this problem the same way and
haven't come up with the right solution.
Sometimes you do.
You know, sometimes you're looking at a UFO video and you're like, dude,
you we looked at a UFO video.
We finally like tracked it down to where where the location was taken.
And then we noticed that there's mountains in the backgrounds with all these,
you know, motocross trails.
So it's what they were actually filming were dirt bikes going down the mountain
on motocross trails and it looks like UFOs in the video.
This is like all kinds of cases like that, where you just have to
step outside and get a different, a little bit different way of thinking
about things or a perspective and then instantly things make sense.
Right. Yeah.
What do you know about that guy, Malcolm
Bendal, who has been working with Randall Carlson for the past year on this plasma
technology?
I haven't seen any of his like actual technology or his lab.
I heard he's got a lab like in Malaysia
somewhere and doing tests and like experiments and stuff.
I haven't got, you know, I contacted him on Twitter and tried to get like a little
bit more in with him and see, but he didn't seem real vocal or open with me,
you know, and I don't know if that's a bad thing or a good thing.
Sometimes, you know, if you got something
to hide, you definitely don't want to talk to theoretical physicists and scientists
because if you're if you're pulling a trying to pull a front, then you're going
to get found out real quick.
Right. So
that's the same the same thing.
I tell people who criticize Gary Nolan, you know, people like, oh,
you work for the CIA and the CIA recruited him to study these brain,
you know, injury victims to understand Havana syndrome.
And that's how he got into all this.
So you can't trust him because he worked for the CIA.
But he's a scientist and I don't I think that more science.
We need more scientists in this field.
We need more science scientists studying this.
I think the more scientists, the better.
And if he is a disinformation agent and he's trying to spread, you know,
misinformation to the scientific community, good luck.
Right.
Well, it's like it's another it's just another example of people like yourself.
People like, you know,
you're very similar in your field of physics to Ben Van Kerwick is to like this guy.
He has a YouTube channel and he studies all this ancient high technology
evidence in in Egypt where the pyramids are.
Like he has he has finds all this evidence of these precision
core drills and these precision saw cuts and these basalt stones.
Yeah.
He had to have iron.
Yeah. Right.
Like it's during the time where they say the pyramids were built.
They had literally like stone tools and iron chisels, right?
And there's no way they could copper chisels.
Yeah, that's what I meant copper chisels.
Right. Yeah.
And there's no way they could have created these perfectly symmetrical,
perfectly square, 80 ton bricks of of I forget what the stone is like basalt rock.
It's like on the most scale of hardness.
They're like some of the hardest rocks that exist.
That's another thing, right?
So if you were an ancient civilization and say you did create a blast furnace
and develop iron smelting and forging technology ahead of, you know, everyone else.
Wouldn't you keep it classified?
Wouldn't that be like a highly classified military secret?
That would be like, you know, to ancient Egypt, you know,
figuring out iron smelting technology would be the equivalent of, you know,
our hypersonic missiles.
You wouldn't share that with your anyone.
You know, you wouldn't share it with even your citizens.
So it's easy to see how technologies like that could have gotten lost over time.
Like could have been discovered and then lost.
Yes. Yeah.
I mean, there's been there's been Greek fire.
There's evidence of cataclysms, of massive floods, of comet,
comet impacts that created global cataclysms that wiped out civilizations.
And there are extinction level events.
And, you know, what modern academia says is that the Egyptians 2,500 years ago,
2,500 years ago, they built the pyramids and they created everything that's that
you see there today.
But with all the evidence of the technology they had, it's not possible.
They were the ones that were drawing, that were carving those hieroglyphs
with copper chiseled copper chisels into the sides of those giant basalt obelisks.
They weren't the ones that were actually moving those massive 20, 30, 80 tons.
It's like we found them and we just did stuff to them.
Exactly.
Rather than we built them.
It's the equivalent of like toddlers drawing with cranes on the side of a mausoleum.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
To say that these giant pyramids were created to be tombs.
I think that a lot of that stuff is super interesting.
You know, there's a lot of cool, you know, Egypt research and a lot of unsolved
mysteries there, but back to like specifically the Malcolm Bendol, this Malcolm
Bendol guy, I know that he he did some stuff on Twitter with this
periodic table that he created where he like he arranged it in a circle and said
that there's some significance to that.
And I made a video where I showed all the different periodic tables,
including the real period, the real full periodic table, which is the chart of
isomers, and that includes like all the isotopes and
and all like all the different, you know,
arrangements of isotopes and isomers.
So it's like the the full the full chart.
And, you know, that's like the full periodic table.
That's like when Gary Nolan says, you know, our regular periodic table,
we're working with like, you know, 100 elements.
But, you know, in between those, there's all these isotopes of each element.
So they're they're working with like 250 in their building blocks and rather
than, you know, what we're working with and why they need those might be, you know,
is another issue, a debate and stuff I can get into.
Like, for example,
they did they took a different isotope of lithium and replaced it with like the
regular lithium and they found that like because of that isotope replaced basic
functions in the brain that weird things happen because of the isotope.
So there's there's functions in your brain that are clearly, you know,
affected by these these spin relaxation times, because that's the only thing that
changes when you up the isotope is that that spin route that that Larmore
frequency or Larmore procession.
So there's quantum mechanical processes that occur inside the brain.
This has been proven with the with the with the lithium study in mice where they
gave an isotope of lithium to the mice and they behave much differently than the
ones with the normal lithium.
So there's obviously something going on here
and with with the physics and the science of these isotopes that that create
something, some of these effects.
And again, I think it's really it's definitely related to that spin relaxation
time factor.
But I think that Malcolm's got some,
you know, interesting ideas and I like to talk to him more and get him on the show
and really have if he's got real science, I'm the place to do it, man.
Like come on my podcast, like you can talk to a whole bunch of people ask you
really good questions and really like delve out your your your ideas
and get to the nuts and bolts.
If you've got something legit, like it will be proven.
Like I'll make sure like we're not just going to like fake debunk you and make
and ridicule you and send you off.
Like we're going to give you everyone a fair shot and keep an open mind to stuff.
And if you're wrong about certain things, we're going to point it out.
Like your periodic table is not the full periodic table.
And there's there's other there's other things in some of the stuff that he's put
out where I'm just like this looks like
it's not it's not the real story.
It's like it's like a I don't know some of the stuff I pointed out already with
with his stuff. But again, I haven't gotten the chance to speak with him
directly or really look into his experimental work and research fully enough
to get to that. But just what I've seen of the theoretical basis stuff like that
periodic table of elements he had with the circle chart.
I mean,
I don't I think what is he claiming?
He's claiming that what he's discovered is a plausible explanation of
how sound was able to manipulate massive objects and move some of these massive
objects in Egypt and like build the pyramids potentially.
So they have sonic levitation.
Yeah, they built sonic levitators that, you know,
they'll levitate a golf like a styrofoam ball or something really lightweight.
I've yet to see anyone.
Levitate, you know, a silicone block or a sandstone block, you know, a piece of
pyramid stone, yet to see that experiment done.
You know, Nassim Harriman, a number of these other guys talk about how they
cracked the ancient Egyptian Egyptian technology.
Well, just show me how to lift the stone.
Show me how to lift lift the rock and how to do that. Right.
And I've heard lots of different
theories and ideas on how it's done and how to do it.
And, you know, this was scepter that the Egyptians had that had this, you know,
like a tuning fork on one end that they supposedly resonated at a certain
frequency and that could, you know, get the stones vibrating that would cause
them to levitate and, well,
someone's got to figure if the ancient Egyptians figured it out with their
primitive technology, man, why can't we do it in some of the labs we have and
figure this out? Why do we get like teams and, you know, real
PhDs and other kinds of people working on this stuff and we haven't figured it out.
If it, you know, it's just so I'm skeptical.
Well, that's what Ben.
That's what Ben Van Kerwick points out.
He says it wasn't the ancient Egyptians.
It was a civilization much before them with much higher advanced technology.
And the ancient and the ancient Egyptians simply inherited that stuff.
Right. The technology was gone.
Or New Zealand, India, one of these ancient
civilizations that structured and then the collapse and everyone moved to Egypt, you
know, and then, you know, people like Randall and people like Graham Hancock that
point all this stuff out, they just get like discredited and called, you know,
racist like Graham Hancock was called a racist for some of the theories that he
pointed out about ancient Egypt and how the pyramids were constructed.
There's there's these these these attempts to discredit them by labeling them
on social media and portraying them as bad guys when really all they're doing is
paying more attention than anyone else.
And it's just it goes against what modern academia and all the people that have.
I can sympathize with some of those people because they're like, oh,
how could brown people have built the pyramids?
You know, that that's racist.
You know, just think that they're in Africa.
And so the other thing I think is like the same thing I see with scientists
all the time is like I get I get pissed off because the scientists are not getting
the credit and you're not getting the real education and not knowing the real
knowledge and you're just giving aliens all the credit for stuff and not getting
a good understanding of the science or anything that's going on because it was
real scientists who worked and built the stuff like the transistor.
Do you know who Walter Schottke was?
If you don't, then you should look up, you know, what he did in his research
and how it developed the solid state theory and group theory that led to
what became the transistor of P doped and endoped, you know, silicates and stuff
like that, the science that went into it.
And you don't get an appreciation for that.
And that's the same thing I look at with the pyramids, man.
It's like you're you're taking all this credit away from humans.
Who humans have done some amazing and just a miraculous, just awesome things.
And you're giving all that credit to something else or aliens or, you know,
some advanced technology and civilization.
Maybe we're not thinking hard enough.
Maybe we're not. I don't know.
I get to also see on the other side is anyone who's been able to show
how you can lift stones and do all this with primitive technology and do it.
I like the idea of the grand gallery being this cog mechanism where they walk
the stones up this the grand gallery as a ramp where they actually,
you know, drag the stones up for construction project.
There's lots of cool theories on how they built the pyramids.
I love that guy.
Have you ever seen that guy that does all the concrete buckets?
He moves all these super heavy objects by finding the center of mass and then
balancing the object on that center of mass and then just rotating it or spinning
in different ways or just, you know, rocking it back and forth and putting,
you know, lifting a little bit of you lift this side,
put a stick under, tip it back this way, put a stick under, lift it back this way,
put a stick under. You can jack up like huge mega mega lifts.
No, I haven't seen that. What is this called?
Look up like man shows how the pyramids were built or a man moves heavy
enormous objects by himself.
I think it is.
There's some guy that he was fascinated by how they built the pyramids.
And he started the guy from Florida.
I think no, that was Edward Leeds,
Gailan and down in Homestead, Florida.
Yes, in Homestead, the Coral.
The Coral Castle. Coral Castle.
Yeah, this dude moves 20 ton blocks by hand.
That guy, yeah.
Yeah, without machinery, he shows how to do it.
A couple of these things he builds and shows.
I thought that was, you know, super
interesting and because if you deal with just the physics of it, man, like
some of the stuff's not that crazy.
You know, you could build one of these ramp systems.
Look how he pushes this enormous stone by himself.
Like you get a you get it.
Well, what is he using right here?
What is that?
He balances it on a pebble and then he's put it.
He is big concrete block and he's put leverage on it.
So he cares about moving blocks around.
But then when you look at the magnitude of the weight
said he's moving around, it is really impressive.
He's not used to any equipment or anything.
In playing with blocks,
Wally thinks he's discovered how Stonehenge was moved.
This is my first Stonehenge arch I permanently put in place.
Three blocks away over a ton each.
It's all based on a very simple technique.
I found a simple explanation for this to move a block about the weight
of a minivan would be to place a stone underneath it.
And once I balance on it, I can spin it.
Holy shit.
Yeah, it's all about that center of mass and the balance.
But I got two handles on my lever
and I could place another stone on this side.
Now, every time I spend a half location on each stone,
I move the block horizontally the distance between the stone.
For my own output, I could move a one ton block 300 feet per hour.
Using this technique, he's moved everything from one ton blocks to buildings.
Look at that.
So he's tipping it with weight.
He's raising it off the ground six inches at a time
by placing a wedge underneath each end.
And that's going to put the entire weight of the block on this rope.
So then I'm going to release the rope, come back in, the rope's going to be my break.
I'm going to guide it into the pit.
The easiest way I can explain this is
this is just a big teeter totter and I got the big kid on that end and he's going
to go down, this ends going up.
So each time he does the teeter totter, he places another wedge underneath.
I got thrown over top of a block and a couple of times I had the blocks roll off
the top and almost landed my feet.
That's pretty wild, but still even with this kind of technology,
I mean, imagine how long it would take him to build the fucking pyramids.
I think there's like a mathematical equation that was done based on like modern
technology and how much each of those blocks in the pyramids weighs like two
million blocks that weigh like five to ten tons each.
Yeah, it would take like how long would it take?
Maybe a place like one stone every, you know, like you'd have to place,
I think like two thousand stones an hour to do it.
I don't know, let's do some math.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fine.
Google, how long how long would it take to build the how many blocks would you have
to move per day to build the pyramids?
So it's two million blocks.
Two million, two million.
So if you had two million
divided by seven thousand three hundred,
that means you'd have to stack two hundred and seventy four blocks every day.
Two hundred and seventy four blocks.
So that's how many years?
It's 20 years.
Twenty years.
That's not using what that guy was doing.
That's not using what it ledges like a lot of people doing a lot of people.
Right.
Twenty thousand.
Bizarre man.
I don't know.
It would be it would be cool to do some more experience with it.
But like as the as a lot of people pointed out,
like you couldn't hire a contractor today to build the pyramids.
Right.
It would cost so much.
Yeah, the amount to cut Google a picture of one of those giant obelisks
that on just type type in uncharted X.
The one that they started excavating that cracked and they stopped.
Yeah, obelisk.
O B Y L hundred tons or something.
Yeah, it's insane.
But it's like cut with perfect precision and they get him inside of these pyramids too.
Hmm.
Yeah, look at that one.
Look at that one on the very top top.
Yeah, that one right there.
Yeah, that's it too.
Thing is insane.
You're not doing that with copper chisels.
No, and in fact, you need like some kind of like rigged machinery to keep it that straight.
Like you'd have to have things on like a line going back and forth.
Mm hmm.
Even set up like automated, you know, cutting systems like like Ed Leeds
Scalmin apparently had that at Coral Castle, like he had this this tower with
the electrical signals they would put through like he had all this stuff on the
walls and people pointed out that those are actuators.
You know, like you have this electromagnet and you put something inside of it.
You can have like a whole like a saw system on on automated like running by
power that would just, you know, cut blocks, you know, the way he cut the blocks.
He's cutting coral, so it's a big coral bed and corals are really soft stone.
So it's really easy to cut.
So the way he would do it is he took like a big, heavy steel door and and just rubbed
it back and forth and that would cut that would cut through it over time.
So like that's kind of like the method he used.
But they said that he set up those steel doors on like these actuators.
And that's what that that flywheel was like a electromagnetic generator
and that it would create current and this guy rebuilt like a whole.
If you look up Coral Castle mystery,
solve this guy like did a whole bunch of experiments where he showed like how he
built like this coral cutting automation system using these actuators that were
very similar to all the stuff in Leeds Scalmin's shop.
And, you know, said that he used like a system of
cranes and chain hoists and other lifting techniques to be able to lift the stones
and position them and put them into place.
But that ultimately it was
there was no anti-gravity technology involved in the whole magnetic current book.
Doesn't really make much sense.
I've looked at that and his whole
you know, this whole idea that, you know, he was using magnetic current to somehow
you know, lift the stones.
We've had a lot of people look into this any kind of potential
coupling between electromagnetism and gravity and there doesn't seem to be one.
You know, it doesn't seem to be like
electrorevittic seems to be a misnomer.
It's eye on wind and all the it doesn't work in a vacuum, for example.
And,
you know, how do you lift physical objects, non-magnetic objects with magnets?
It's no one's been able to do it.
So how do you, you know,
what is gravity? Nobody knows, man.
It's it's a mystery.
So
I don't even know how to end a podcast like this.
But you already missed your flight.
We're like almost four hours and we're three and a half hours in.
Is there anything we missed that we should cover?
Ten, twenty.
Look at that.
Is there is there anything we've covered a shit load?
But we covered a ton of stuff.
Anything important that we missed?
Great. I think we we nailed enough stuff to keep people busy for the next,
you know, a couple of weeks.
Yeah, all I want to say is we have a lab
down that we're trying to do these experiments and replicate these experiments.
And we're encouraging people who have
information or prototypes or anything they need tested or verified.
You know, we're trying to encourage and foster this community to do that and be
the pioneers or leaders in this field to try to.
If this technology does exist, you know,
Bob Lazar did work out there for real, then there's got to be other people.
There's got to be other guys that were recruited into this program or other
programs similar to this.
And if there are, we want to talk to them.
We want to talk to them in great detail and deep detail and make sure that we're
getting, you know, all the technical intelligence that we can extract from these people.
And if we can extract any, then we're I'm trying to, you know,
show people where they can get real technical intelligence and why they
shouldn't look at certain sources if they're not reliable, you know.
What do you think it would mean for humanity if our government just came
clean and said, yes, it's true, Bob Lazar was telling the truth.
Those flying saucers were real.
We found them in archeology, archeology, easy for you to say, archeological dig.
And we found them.
We reverse engineered them.
We don't know what it is from another planet.
And like all this stuff was just made transparent.
Like, what do you think that would mean for the for science,
humanity and like the evolution of our species?
I think I think the truth would honestly be like the best thing for us.
It's almost like.
Although I don't know because it could.
I don't know what that technology contains or what that file might contain.
So it might contain something like really bad.
There may be a reason they're they're keeping it, you know, out of,
you know, everyone's, you know,
the public domain, I might be a reason for that.
But at the same time, it's like, where is humanity going?
You know, where are we going right now?
Are we going to we either have to get off this planet or or we're going to.
And if we don't get off this planet, then we're eventually going to die here.
Like we're either going to nuke ourselves, kill ourselves or an asteroid is going
to wipe us out entirely.
So if we don't colonize the moon,
colonize Mars and do these other things that, you know, Elon, Elon's super,
you know, invested in this as his mission, his company mission, you know,
how do we get to Mars?
How do we colonize Mars and create a Mars colony and all this?
That should be our ultimate goal.
And to become a space fairing civilization and to get off this earth.
So it's either we go that direction or we we go backwards and we say screw
technology, we're just going to shut all technology down and we're going to go
back to, you know, rural serfdoms and far and you know, and that's never going to happen.
So where do we go from here?
There's how many options do we have?
We either we either leave the planet, become space faring and become, you know,
a post warp civilization or we die here.
I don't think there's any other.
It seems so fucking mind boggling that we were still flying around on the same
fucking airplanes we were back in what the 50.
How long ago do we figure out commercial airplane travel?
Well, commercial plane travel probably like 19 early 1930s.
So how is it?
We're still flying on the same planes we were flying in the 1930s or 40s.
It seems like just modern technology has not evolved.
Yeah, we're working on anti gravity in the 50s.
What the fuck?
We're I mean, you could you could make an argument like electric cars.
Like we're we got computers on wheels powered by batteries.
But like like Eric said, you know, if you look past screens,
really nothing else has has really changed.
Yeah, as far as energy production and you know, we're still using turbines
powered by steam and that's that steam is either generated by nuclear heat or
burning coal, burning fossil fuels, burning old dinosaur bones.
Yeah, I don't know.
We need to get off and curb our addiction of fossil fuels and find better energy
sources, what those are going to be in the future is, you know,
as is definitely an issue still up for debate and stuff.
But as far as we as this UFO issue is concerned, I just think that it's
created this state of ultimate secrecy, you know, surrounding this topic and a lot
of other topics. I think that that didn't necessarily create the state.
It's almost like that emerged from the Manhattan Project, which was created,
you know, out of this whole thing.
It seems like it seems like it started with this whole top secret
research project in the Manhattan Project, you know, right?
Because it's like where did it go from there?
The aliens started showing up after we blew these nukes off and the Atomic
Energy Commission and everything is has been, you know, deeply tied to this
men in black and this conspiracy to keep stuff covered up and whatnot for years.
I think that there's there's definitely more more to it.
But as far as, you know, where we're going to go with it,
it's got to be through the technology because I don't think the tech.
I don't see that ever happening that the government's going to come forward and
be like, right, we're going to admit to anything.
Because when does that ever happen?
And then if they do, it's like it's automatically caused to not believe
whatever they said, it's like, right.
So so I don't think that that's how it's going to go.
I really that's why that's why we started the APEC conference in the
and the and the all propulsion and Falcon space labs because we want to create
this environment where like, well, we're going to force disclosure through technology.
So like, you know, if the technology exists, all we have to do is show show
other people how to do it with an experiment.
You know, you got these these these awesome YouTube channels out there that
like that will take this and do an experiment with it and show people how to do it.
And then like other people, once once it's once we put a video out there with
an experiment and all the details in the recipe for how to recreate it, then.
You know, other other scientists, other labs and other people can go out and
produce it for themselves.
And I think that that would be the best man.
If we could create like a free energy or an anti gravity and then just show
people like, well, this is how you build it, this is how you do it.
I think that that's the way forward.
And and and also the physics, too, because we go over we go over the physics
and we get into the physics and good in these arguments with other physicists
about what's the way to do this and how do we do it?
And and well, this will work.
This won't and coming up with those better ideas is the way we're going to get
through this and we're going to, you know, eliminate the noise and get to that.
That signal we're chasing after, man, because that's what it seems like is
that there's a very faint signal and there's lots of noise and lots of muddy
mud in the water to prevent us from seeing clearly through the bottom.
Well, I hope I can.
I'm trying to do everything I can to amplify that signal.
How can people get in touch with you, watch more of your videos?
What kind of what kind of interviews are you doing?
Who are you? What kind of people are you talking to on your on your show?
I'd love to talk to Malcolm.
I want to talk to anyone that wants to talk science, like because because I get
real deep on science and technical.
So I want to talk to people that want to talk science and want to talk it
with people on a more intellectual level than, you know, normal, you know,
sometimes we break it down to that.
I like to come on podcasts like this and try to explain this really complex
technology at a layman level so that more people can learn about it and know about
it. But at the same time, I want to work with those scientists at that next level
to try to produce it and then know how to share that information and what not
with everyone. So yeah, it's I think it's only the start.
And I think that what we're going to be doing in the next, you know, 10 to 20
years, as far as this technology and in this field, I think we're going to see
some pretty amazing stuff like you already seen some really cool shit on.
Yeah, today.
So one thing I forgot to ask you about actually how put off we didn't talk about
him. Yeah, we talked about him briefly off the podcast and you kind of blew
my mind a little bit.
How is interesting?
I don't know where he like started with all this, but I know he like was an
SRI International.
It's the Stanford Research Institute and they were like not really affiliated
with Stanford, but I think it was like a CIA run organization or something that
did a lot of research into weird and paranormal stuff.
They were, you know, investigating Uri Geller at one point in time.
Then he was also in if you read the Jim Mars book, Sci-Spies about the whole
men who stare at goats was based on that whole story and this army psychological
warfare operations center that they had set up and they were running experiments
with, you know, mind control, all the remote viewing stuff again.
I don't think there's any evidence for remote viewing.
I don't believe in remote viewing.
I think it's, I think it was put out a study that was done by the CIA into
the possibility of whether this worked or not.
I think it failed and when they some other documents leaked or someone found
out about it, they put out some other studies like that project Stargate stuff,
you know, to suggest that it was real.
And that the CIA confirmed that, you know, it did exist and that they use it
and it was it was real and all this stuff.
And I think I laugh at that.
You know, people like, oh, how can how can the CIA confirm that, you know,
we have remote viewing and people still not be paying attention?
I was like, well, it's kind of like, you know, when all those CIA directors
and stuff stepped up to confirm that the Hunter Biden laptop was Russian
misinformation, like they're full of shit, you know, like, like no one believes
Yeah, of course, the CIA is going to tell people we can read their fucking minds.
And we want everyone to think that we can read their fucking minds
because then they they'll be we don't have to worry about thought criminals
and thought control that they'll do it themselves.
If they think we can read their fucking minds, you know what I mean?
So of course, the CIA is going to tell people, yeah, we got remote viewing
and we can we have we have super soldiers with superpowers that can like
see inside, you know, your every detail of everything.
Yeah. Of course, they want the Russians and everyone else to think
that we have these these kind of capabilities.
But do we actually have them?
Is there any evidence that we've changed our, you know, the way we train CIA agents?
Are we still training them intelligence collection methods of the the typical
way or are we just abandoning that and now only training remote viewers?
Because if it worked that well and it was that great and that accurate,
then that's all we'd be doing.
You know, we wouldn't even worry about, you know, hiring espionage
and hack, you know, people that hack sources and these prostitutes
that go and sleep with people for for secrets and stuff like that.
We wouldn't have to do any of that if we could just, you know, use superpower
super soldiers to look in people's minds.
And of course, that's my whole take on that.
I don't believe I don't buy in it for a second.
And I think that they did a lot of research in it just to see if it was real or not.
And then afterwards, of course, that, you know, they're going to say that it was real.
Because why not?
And how you should be a Scientologist, didn't he?
Yeah, he was he was big in the Scientology, too.
He's an interesting guy.
But he also like some of the stuff from the 80s and 90s is interesting,
because he talks about a major breakthrough that happened around 1984, 85.
And in one of these interviews where he's talking about the polarizable vacuum,
one of the early ones from the 90s, he's talking about the first
stuff on that polarizable vacuum theory of general relativity.
So it's a it's a wave saying, well, relativity only works if, you know,
the speed of light is only the speed of light because of the permittivity
and permeability of free space.
These two magnetic and electric constants that govern space time.
And if we can locally affect those, then we might be able to change the speed of
light and therefore change the laws of relativity, at least locally or in other ways.
So that's this whole idea that they can polarize the vacuum was one way of
they thought about doing it.
Again, that's that's what I've been talking about with these polariton
condensates, these condensates that they're polarizing the vacuum with.
And, you know, when you keep this polarizable vacuum approach,
you change the local refractive and index of space time.
And much like we're warping, you know, the Mirage Effect warped that
the photons and light energy around objects, we could potentially warp
gravity around objects by using a similar, a similar method,
methodology or similar physics.
And that's, you know, put off greatest, you know, work that I've seen in the field
is that stuff he put out.
And I'm not sure, not sure if that was entirely one hundred percent,
you know, him and his ideas, because it seems like a lot of that stuff.
You know, Bernard, he publishes a lot with some of these other
authors like Bernard Hayes, the Caltech senior staff
physicist from Lockheed Martin, who I mentioned, you know, he wrote a lot
of papers with how put off, and I think that they shared a lot of research
and ideas on inertia and the zero point energy field and how gravity
and mass and inertia come to be from the quantum vacuum.
And I think that some of his research into that is super
deep and fascinating.
But I also think that, you know, like, why isn't he talking more about that?
He'd mentioned that metamaterial and some of the aspects about that.
But that's about as far as, you know, he went with TTSA in the science division
is as far as has they declassified this as like he doesn't even talk about it.
He's never interviewed or really gotten deep into it.
Even that, you know, I watched the one he did with Eric
Weinstein, Jesse Michaels and all that stuff.
And even now, I'm like, man, you know, like they could get so much deeper on this.
And they did Eric was being very polite with him during the interview.
I mean, he was asking him about, like, is there is there an operation
designed to wield stigma?
Yeah, that was a great interview, man.
I just like that's that's those are the conversations I really, really like.
And I would love to have been a part of it.
It got to ask some of my own questions and got in there because that's just.
Yeah, I wish how put off would would talk to more people like me, at least
and do that more publicly and stuff.
That would be cool because and that that that light experiment
he was talking about in the 80s, that breakthrough was a squeezed light.
You know, they squeeze light and that's what they use in LIGO
for the detectors to detect gravity, gravity waves in LIGO.
And one of the theories in physics is that if you can build a detector,
you can build a transmitter.
So that maybe the transmission and the signals might have something
to do with this, the squeezed light.
So they squeeze coherent states.
And I pointed out what it was a squeeze state.
Well, it's you take Heisenberg's uncertainty principle
and then you squeeze one of the parameters.
So like you can only know the position or the momentum of an object,
the quantum mechanically, to within a degree of H bar over two pi,
this quantum limit of what actuality is.
So if you were to squeeze one of those parameters,
like say the position or the momentum, the other one will jump
instantaneously to conserve this Heisenberg uncertainty relation.
So you could potentially create instantaneous spikes in momentum
if you if you squeeze that position state or or changes in its position,
if you squeeze its momentum state in the right way.
And so there might be some deeper quantum mechanics involved in that
that is related to this, these Pleroton quantities, again, these light,
these trapped systems of light and how we can squeeze those systems of light
to get them to do things physically that they ordinarily wouldn't.
And I think that's a lot of interesting physics there.
And I'm hoping that the next breakthrough happens in my lifetime
that I get to see it and that maybe someone who is part of it
is got got into the research because they heard about it through this.
Because it's out there, it's being done, how put off, worked on this stuff.
You know, and I just wish that he talked about it more or that it was explored more.
And I think, you know, maybe the reasons are that because they're afraid of,
you know, who might get this technology or how quickly it advances or develops.
But I'm afraid of what might happen if it doesn't develop quickly enough.
Also, you know, and also.
They talk about this is a playing ground field, you know, level or you have this technology,
it's going to make us all gods.
Kind of essentially.
So we're going to have to humanity is going to have to go through this process of growing up.
And right, it's kind of like humanity is as we're hitting puberty or adulthood, you know,
this this word, you know, we have to.
Give away our childlike ways and realize we're part of a much bigger universe,
a much bigger cosmos.
If these technologies do exist and if we're going to wield them and utilize them,
we need to, you know, evolve not just technologically, but spiritually as well, too,
so that we don't destroy everything once we have the power to wield that, you know, ability, you know.
That's a great fucking way to end this thing, man.
Thank you so much for doing this, dude.
Thanks for having me, man.
And like, I got a pleasure, bro.
Missed my flight.
I'm going to stay.
Yeah, we miss your flight, but we'll book you a new flight.
You got to get someone on here to debate me and have me come back on again some time,
man, this will be awesome.
I'm 100% going to have you back on.
There's no question about that.
You completely just blew my mind.
I'm going to have to watch this back like three or four times to really grasp it.
But so again, tell people where they can find more your work, your videos, the talks that you're doing.
So I'm Alien Scientist on YouTube and my email is thealienscientist, one word, at gmail.com.
And if you want links or sources for anything I discussed or more information or want to share
something or anything, drop me an email, send me a line.
And I'm Alien Underbar Scientist on Twitter and subscribe to me on there.
And I'm working on a rumble and an Odyssey account to back up some of my videos and stuff,
but I haven't quite got that set up yet.
So thank you again, man.
I'll link all your stuff below so people can look at it and check it out.
Thanks, man.
Yeah, feel free to contact me.
And I've got sources and papers for days if you want to get into this.
I'll keep you busy for the next four years.
Cool.
All right, dude.
Thanks again.
And good night, world.
Sleep tight.
