So they cordoned off the area that I'm talking about right now and that's where the girls
at the encounter and two blocks away at 530 where military officers Marco, Chirisi and
Eric Lopes saw this creature run across the road in front of them, slammed on his brakes,
Marco jumps out the passenger door and grabs this thing with his bare hands and he takes
it and he puts it in the back seat on his lap.
Believe it was the back seat.
On his lap?
On his lap.
And they take it initially to a clinic in the town of Varsinia and the guy comes out
and says, I don't know what the heck that thing is.
Get it out of here.
I've no, what are you guys doing kind of thing.
So they go to another hospital called Hospital Regionale and at which point the creature
remains in hospital, regional hospital, sorry, the creature remains in regional hospital
for I'm not sure exactly how long, but it ultimately ended up in Humanitas Hospital
and we have testimony from doctors that performed certain things as well as military guys that
drove the creature.
We have the whole, the entire area where the creature was.
So they captured two creatures, one was alive and I think the other one was not alive.
The one that Eric Lopes caught that you said was in his lap in the car, was that one alive
or dead?
It was alive.
That one was still alive.
Yeah, but very little resistance.
So he got a cut on his arm, kind of on his shoulder like right here during the capture
of it, whether it scratched him with a nail or I don't know what exactly happened, but
he got infection and within days, week or whatever it was, he went into the hospital
and the doctor administered antibiotics and he said he'd never in all of his years prior
or since seen anything like it, Marco Trees, a perfectly healthy 23 year old young man
got this like complete immune system failure and he died.
And we interviewed the family, his sister.
We interviewed the doctor who worked on him and they wanted to put him in the ground as
soon as possible.
I couldn't believe that you actually got the doctor on camera, the doctor that treated
him.
I know, it's crazy, right?
What did he say?
What was he looking for?
What did he see when he was treating Eric?
He just said that he'd never in all of his career and he's been in there for like 40
plus years.
He's never seen someone with an infection from a simple cut like that have a complete
immune system failure and not respond to any of the antibiotics and he pumped him full
of everything and nothing worked at all and his health just went down and he died.
There was some sort of mention of a granular toxin?
Yeah, I know.
I didn't quite, yes.
We have the autopsy reports which the family had to fight to get.
We interviewed, I didn't interview his wife.
His wife was interviewed one time, very briefly, never seen the light of day by Roger Lear.
Dr. Roger Lear is a UFO researcher.
He used to take allegedly implants out of people and when Roger Lear found out that
I was making this movie years ago, 2014, he was adamant that he wanted to talk with me.
He wanted to get together and I sincerely wanted to talk to him too but I was investigating
Rua at the time and I was kind of back burning Virginia case.
Long story short, he said, well if you can't get me on camera, you've got to have my tapes.
I went to Virginia in 2002 and I documented a bunch of witnesses, some of whom have gone
off the radar completely forever.
Those tapes had never seen the light of day, I transferred the tapes, had them digitized
and then Dr. Roger Lear sent them back to Dr. Roger Lear and then he died and so I never
got a chance to talk to Dr. Roger Lear but I got his tapes and one of those tapes, he
interviewed the wife of Marco Trizzi, nobody's ever done that, nobody's even going to get
a hold of her.
But nobody had ever managed to get the driver, Eric Lopes.
He'd been in hiding for like 26 years.
Marco, what's the name of the guy who died again?
Marco Trizzi.
That was Marco, right.
Marco Trizzi died, yes.
He was the guy that leapt out of the passenger seat and grabbed this creature, apparently.
And the guy who was driving the car has never been.
Won't even talk to the family of the guy who deceased.
The guy who was driving the car, that's the guy who basically was about to shoot you guys.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a crazy story.
We interviewed the town mayor.
He was like, yeah, this is unbelievable as this sounds, I believe this actually happened.
I interviewed the local news station saying the same thing, they completely threatened
to lock us up if we asked one more question at the military base as a to lock up the local
media in prison for asking questions.
They came down so hard and then, you know, I don't want to give away too much of the
film, the storyline, but because I want to ruin it for anybody, but they shut it down.
They shut the story down.
And then we came to the realization, not for about 10 years on my last trip to Virginia,
which was just last year, we came to the realization that the U.S. government was 100% involved
and that they arrived and they took, we talked to the radar operator who saw the plane coming
in and saw U.S. Air Force plane coming in.
You know what I'm saying?
It's Air Force airplane coming in and it came into the exact area where we knew the body
was because we interviewed the guy who drove the body to the location and then the United
States Air Force plane came in and then flew out in and out.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's heavy.
Highly likely, extremely likely that one of the reasons for the level of secrecy is that
the Brazilian government would be exposing the U.S. government by revealing what they
know.
So I'm just guessing here, but there are some pretty crazy aspects that we uncovered during
meeting the witnesses and stuff that you just go, Jesus, like really?
Guys in suits from some unknown government agency coming and trying to like intimidate
and influence testimony and offering large sums of money, bribes, and then you've got
like the lead UFO researcher on the case, Ubarajara Rodriguez, who's a lawyer in the
town of Virginia, who suddenly after writing a book does a complete 180 and he won't even
talk to anybody anymore, Pacaccini, the same thing, Claudio Covell's unfortunately passed.
But so they managed to like get the lead UFO researchers to either recant what they said
previously or made to print in a book or just go silent altogether and never comment on
the case ever again.
And then threatening the witnesses and say, I never heard a witness say to me, they said
they're going to kill me.
They just say that the consequences of revealing what you know would be extremely severe.
The punishment would be extremely severe.
And then ask, you know, how's the family, you know, that kind of thing.
Right.
Right.
So, yeah.
So, as crazy as it all sounds, and I think I told your audience earlier, don't believe
a single word I'm telling you because I wouldn't if I were you.
But this story happened.
One of the parts that freaked me the fuck out the most was the interview with the X-ray
technician.
Crazy.
What did he say specifically, like how was his description of it?
Just working it, working a lot, you know, working in the hospital one night, one late
afternoon or an evening and military trucks pulled up.
And they're like, this is, you're going to be doing some work for us.
He's like, okay, like what exactly am I doing here?
And they had an object in a black body bag.
He said it's stanked and no end and it was kind of smaller.
But he said that they were armed guards in there watching his every move.
Look at him in the eyes.
You just perform this.
You can't look at the X-rays for the first time in history.
He couldn't look at the X-rays because he always verifies to make sure they come out.
Couldn't look at the X-rays.
They just looked at him very carefully and then he'd performed his duties.
And then they said, don't you ever talk about any of this stuff?
