Where you are back on the podcast today with Matthew Cox, how you doing?
You're well known for making over $12 million through mortgage fraud.
We're sentenced to 26 years in prison and now you're a true crime author.
Right.
Does that nail it pretty well?
Yeah, that's pretty good.
Okay.
You also have an entire episode done about you on American Greed, is that the name of
the show?
Yes.
American Greed on CNBC.
Yeah, there was one on Dateline too, but it's nowhere.
You got to be pretty well known to be on American Greed, I mean you had to have done a pretty
big time crime to be on that show.
Yeah, well $12 million is big, right?
Yeah, the number $12 million is a big number.
Is that the most amount of money that you acquired over that period of time?
Kind of the federal, it's difficult to determine exactly what the number is because the government
kept shifting the number.
It's basically the FBI at one point had said that the mortgage company I owned had done
like $40 million in mortgage fraud, but keep in mind too that it's misleading because if
you have $100,000 alone on a piece of property that you bought for $110,000, there's no real
dollar law, so they're counting that as $100,000 in fraud.
Well, I didn't get any of that.
The mortgage company, they were saying at one point they were threatening that they were
going to charge me a $40 million in mortgage fraud for the mortgage company that I owned,
and then there's multiple frauds, so it really, the numbers really that I'd always kind of
heard was $15 million, but $11.5 million, $12 million, I've heard $26 million, somebody
was throwing around $26 million, but $12 million is good.
$12 million.
I didn't see $12 million, so it's misleading.
What was your plan with all of this in the beginning?
What inspired all of this, and how do you get into that, because you're probably doing,
you're probably running a legit business first, or is it just ...
I was thinking about that.
That man, the Joker, when he says, do I look like I have a plan, I'm just a dog chasing
a car.
If I caught it, I wouldn't know what to do with it.
No, I mean, I had no plan.
I opened a mortgage company.
I was a mortgage broker.
Basically, I got a degree in fine arts.
Were you a legit mortgage broker at any point?
Man, I mean, initially, I went into it.
I got my license.
I was going to be a mortgage broker.
I started being a mortgage broker.
I had full intentions of being a legitimate mortgage broker.
My very first loan, I go into my manager's office.
We lay the file down.
She goes through it, and she pulls out one piece of paper and sticks it to the side.
I don't really necessarily even know what fraud is, or even how you would go about committing
fraud.
I'm just trying to close loans.
She doesn't.
She goes, okay, it's perfect.
I go, whoa, whoa, whoa.
She goes, well, you didn't even look at this, did you?
I went, no.
This is a verification of rent, VOR, and I went, okay.
This girl was 30 days late about 11 months ago on her rent, and I went, oh, geez, I didn't
even notice that.
She goes, yeah, and I go, oh, my God.
I'm thinking right now, based on an underwriting guideline, she doesn't get a loan, and she
goes, so, she pulls out some light out, undoes it, and she goes, just go ahead and get rid
of it, make a copy of it, and we'll put it back in the file, and it'll be fine.
You guys can spell.
No.
Yeah, and I went, I said, well, that's fraud, right?
And I go, that's fraud, and she goes, keep in mind, like Ford Motor Car is looking for
my truck.
My credit cards have been shut off.
I mean, I'm behind on my mortgage.
I mean, I'm in, I'm in dire straits, so, you know, she said, look, worst that's going
to happen, underwriter, underwriting catches it.
She goes, and maybe you get fired, maybe they just don't close the loan.
She said, you're nobody's going to jail, and I went, you know, she said, do what you want
to do.
She's nobody's looking for my car.
And so I, you know, I grabbed it and I whited it out, I made a copy, stuck it in, sweated
bullets for about five days, five days later, boom, the loan's ready to close.
I go down there, the girl signs the paperwork, I get a check for $3,500.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm ecstatic.
Yeah.
Wow.
I mean, $3,500, I'm like 29 years old.
That was a ton of money that got me back on my feet, and I, next thing you know, I'm closing
four loans the next month, I'm closing six loans the next month, the next month it's
eight, then it's 10, then it's 12.
They make me a manager of the Brandon office, and then that mortgage company got shut down
in maybe six months.
And keep in mind, too, at that point, when I kind of realized what's going on, it, you
know, it got to the point where you walked in and it's like all the numbers work, but
you only made $45,000 last year.
But if you made $55,000, I could get you a loan.
So I mean, it's not like.
Right, so you just put $55,000.
Yeah, it changes the change to W2.
I have a degree in Fine Arts.
I change it to W2, I send it in, I pray that they're not going to ask any specifics when
they call to verify the employment, keep in mind the verification of employment comes
to me.
I change that to say $45,000, or to say $55,000, just like the W2, it closes, and boom, closes,
there's a check for $3,000, $4,000.
At that point, it just seems too easy then, right?
It does.
It's just like.
Too good to be true.
Right, nobody's.
In that industry, so many people were doing it.
That was pre-financial crisis.
So that's back in, this is back in like 1999, 2000.
So I'm like 29 years old, and by the time I opened up my own mortgage company, if you
basically, if you walk through the door with a pulse, I'm getting you a loan.
You got a house, you don't have your down payment, I got it, we'll take care of that.
You wash cars, you've never claimed taxes, it's not a big deal, it's not a big deal.
Don't worry if I got you.
We'll slam this loan.
Yeah, if I pull your credit, it's questionable, I can get you in a house, I got you.
Wow.
I mean, just to get them in there, and maybe they make a few payments, maybe they make
all the payments.
So that's the problem is that right there, if that's a $200,000 loan, well that's $200,000
in fraud.
I only got a broker fee at that point.
But what happened was very quickly, I ended up with a staff underneath me that were just
guys doing that.
So we're all rehabbing houses, we're buying houses in Ybor City, Tampa Heights, we're
fixing up houses, we're selling those houses, we're getting our own people loans, and we're
committing a massive amount of mortgage fraud.
I mean, at one point I probably had 14 guys working for me, you know, it was always in
between like eight to 14, and there was really only like half a dozen of them that were any
good anyway.
Right.
You know, and what's funny about it is like most of the guys that worked for me all still
work in real estate.
Like they're all around.
Really?
Oh yeah.
So I'll see somebody, I remember I saw somebody who was on my indictment, this is when I was
in the halfway house, a girl that was the best broker I'd ever had, she was amazing.
And I saw her, I was in the halfway house, I was on my way to work, pulling behind her
and dunking donuts.
And she looked right at me, she looked right in the mirror, she goes, she does this.
Keep in mind, she's thinking this guy's getting out of prison in 2030.
So I'm not supposed to be out of prison.
So she does this, does one, I can see her, she's got the mirror right here and she goes
like this and then she backs up like she's hiding from me.
I'm still staring right at you, if you're staring at me, I'm staring at you.
So I'm looking at her like, you know, and I kind of, I do this to her and she goes,
and I mean, it's just, she never, she didn't, I thought she's going to get out of the car,
she's going to say, hey, what's up, how are you, nothing.
Of course she also is like the manager of a bank and you certainly don't want to be
associated with the manager of a bank and you're also listed on an indictment that
you just were never prosecuted for.
Oh shit.
Right.
So, you know, I've got all these people that are around that are like, hey man, what's
going on?
How's it going?
What's going on?
And they all want to hang out and talk, but only to veering degrees.
So well, I own that mortgage company.
Right.
Like I said, I own the mortgage company and at some point one of my mortgage brokers left
and opened her own place.
She and her husband and she, she was doing what's called a, she got involved in what's
called a straw man scam, which is where let's say I get Danny to buy a house from me for
a, I can buy a house for 500,000.
I put 100,000 in it, fix it up.
I get Danny to buy the house from me for a million dollars.
So we, there's 400,000.
I give Danny 200,000, I take 200,000.
Danny just rented out and make the payments, but Danny can't make the payments.
And you can't make the payments on that house because it won't support a renter at that
amount.
Maybe he makes a couple of payments.
Well, what happened was she worked with a group of investors that bought multiple properties,
four or five properties.
They pulled out like half a million, a million dollars to a million dollars.
She made 40 or 50,000 in ridiculous broker fees and the loans all went under.
Well, when the loans went under, these guys weren't even making the first payment.
That's called the first payment default.
What happens is the lender start investigating.
As soon as they investigate, they realize right away it's fraud because she's making W2s,
pay stubs, she's creating documents.
So it doesn't take much to uncover that.
They uncover it, they track it back to her.
The FBI shows up, they say, they talk to these guys, these guys cooperate, everybody's cooperating,
she cooperates.
I know the whole thing's happening, but I'm not that concerned because we're friends.
Well, what happened was I had run several of my loans through her because I couldn't
run the loans through my own company because I own the company.
It's not an arms length transaction.
So anyway, those loans were rental properties and stuff.
No payments had been missed or anything, but it was not an arms length transaction.
The FBI came in and she wore a wire on me, she and her husband wore a wire on me and
they said, hey, look, the FBI's asking questions about you and I went, oh my God, you didn't
tell them this, did you?
You didn't tell them this.
So I start saying, I just bury myself, not realizing she's wired.
I halfway through the conversation, I realized it and I said, oh man, that's fucked up.
I got up and I left, FBI contacts me, I end up hiring an attorney and I gave him like
$75,000 to plead me out.
So he pleads me out for 75 grand.
So he pleads me out, I accept a plea deal.
Well, there was no dollar loss.
So if there's no dollar loss, you don't have a record, you're not going to go to jail.
There was no even potential dollar loss, which means you could have, you didn't lose the
money, but you could have.
There was no potential.
So I get three years paper, but I can't, now I can't own the mortgage company anymore.
That's an issue because that's how I made my money.
I was married, I'd just gotten a divorce, my child support's a couple thousand dollars.
I gave her whatever, it was like, and with everything combined, it was like a hundred
thousand dollars.
So I'm just wiped out.
So I've got, I'm starting over from scratch with no real way to make any money.
And at that, by that point, I'd figured out how to make fake people.
Does that make sense?
Fake identities.
Well, yeah, there's synthetic identities, for example.
What I'm going to say, I figured I want to start buying houses in Ebor City, fix them
up and sell them.
The problem with Ebor City and Tampa Heights area is that the dollar amount's so low, you're
dealing with lower middle class people and they tend to switch jobs, they have bad credit,
you know, they don't have disposable income, so they tend to have bad credit.
So the issue is, I bought a house, I fixed it up, I go to sell the house, two or three
of the borrowers that want to buy the house can't even qualify.
So I'm either committing fraud to try and get them to qualify, or it's just an issue.
So I realized right away, even if you commit fraud, you'd be shocked how many people, like,
things good, you've committed fraud to just massage the loan just to get it to close,
and the people would still sabotage it.
They quit their job three days beforehand.
So the lender calls, and the one thing you did have was a job, the lender now calls,
and you don't have a job anymore.
So it's like, your credit's jacked up, you don't have a down payment, you have no job,
you have no rental history, this is just bad all the way around.
You're basically, I don't even know why I'm dealing with you at all.
And that's kind of what it got, it came to the point where I realized, I don't really
need these guys.
If I could figure out how to just create fake borrowers, then I'd be in a better situation.
And so that's what happened was, I had had a woman come in earlier, like a year earlier,
and she'd come in and she had perfect credit.
But when I got her W-2s, the social security number didn't match her W-2s, and the name
was slightly different.
And what she told me she'd done was, she'd gotten divorced, and her husband had stuck
her with a bunch of bills, and she needed to get her electorate turned on.
So she said she was using her maiden, she said switched back to her maiden name, and
she used her son, her like two year old son social security number, and went in to get
the electorate turned on, and she said this is my name, this is my so-sh, this is the
address.
So they don't have the old address.
She didn't want to use the old address.
She had a new so-sh, she had a different name, so it was so different, it created a new
credit profile.
And so she explained it to me, and I went, I don't understand, you've got like 700 credit
scores, you've got a car loan, she goes, yeah.
I said, using your son's social security number, she goes, yeah, about two years ago.
And I went, you've got a Dillard's car, she was using my son's social security number.
I said, you've got this, and she goes, yeah, she said, so what are we going to do about
the W-2s?
And I went, I want to switch them.
I put the new so-sh on there, and bam, she got like 100% financing, she bought like
$150,000 house, and it was perfect, and everybody's happy.
Well, I mean, I was happy, I don't know, I clearly was fraud.
Right, right.
Everyone's happy except the feds.
Yeah, they made all the payments, I don't know.
But so what happened was, I had realized that that was something.
And what happens is ultimately I end up figuring out how to get social security to issue social
security numbers for kids that don't exist.
I started making fake birth certificates for kids that are like 10 months old.
Because if you say that the child is, let's say, over 12 months, you have to show up with
the baby.
I don't have a baby to show up.
Right, so that's not going to work.
Right, so I said, OK, well, 10 month old, and I have a degree in fine art, so coming
up with the actual birth certificate was pretty easy.
Yeah.
So I played with it, I ordered the security docs.
How did you create it?
Yeah, how do you make it back then?
I'm sure you're not just typing it out.
You don't have Photoshop though.
Nowadays.
No, well, there was Photoshop, but I didn't use Photoshop.
What I mean, what I did was I'd gotten one from South Carolina in the name of another
guy, and I ordered the security paper, you know, what you copied it says, Voidif copy.
So I ordered the security paper, and then I just made a template that I would run the
security paper through a copy machine, and it would lay out the template, and I just
typed out in Word exactly what it was supposed to say.
So now I just print, I'm printing on it.
So I've got these papers, these birth certificates with templates, and I'm printing new information
on them, and I would get a, I got a, what do you call it, the seal, you know, you can't
go in and say I need a seal for, so, right.
But the problem is you can't do that, like I can't go in and say, hey, I need one for
Hillsborough County Vital Statistics, they will do that.
So what you do instead is I said I need one for, you know, Hillsborough County Vital Rec,
or Vital, what did I say, no, Virtual Records Office or something, which is kind of close.
And then I took sandpaper and sanded it down a little bit, because they look worn out for
a while anyway, and then I use that, and of course they don't check them, it's not like
they're holding them up feeling that.
Yeah, they don't look at that, they just look to see if it's there.
Yeah, they just grab it like that, and they go, okay, thank you, and you need a shot record.
So I had to make a shot record for a 10 month old baby.
So I made a shot record, so then I just went into Social Security, sorry, and I said, hey,
my name's Joe So-and-So, I gave them a driver's license, fake driver's license, they looked
at the, a little more complicated, anyway, they looked at the documents, they checked,
they go, you're right, your son doesn't have a Social Security number, I go, yeah, I know,
they go, okay, well, we'll go ahead and order one, they'd ask why, they'd say, was he born
in a hospital?
I go, no, no, he was born with a midwife, I remember the first one I did was for, anyway,
I ended up, it's irrelevant, the point is, is that I did it, they ordered the thing,
10 days later, bam, I get a Social Security card, and I started ordering these, first
it was in real people's names, and then I started using the names like I used Lee Black,
the name Lee Black, do you ever see reservoir dogs?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, I used Lee Black, I used Brandon Green, James Red, William Blue, David Silva.
So, so I then turned around and I went and I started buying houses and e-boards, so I
paid, I made the, I would get everybody's secured credit cards, so everybody gets three
secured credit cards, I barely put anything on them, and I make the minimum payments,
so you've got a $300 credit card, a $200 credit card, a $500 credit card, and they have very
little money, 20, 30, 40 bucks on each one, well in six months, the credit bureaus generate
credit scores.
So now you've got, these guys come out of the gate, 710, 720 credit scores, so you've
got a 720 credit score, well the minimum credit score back then to get a 95% loan was 620,
so they've got 710, and they've got, they've got employment for two or three years, because
I'm making the W-2s at PaySubs, and so they've got canceled checks, because I was able to
figure out how to make, it looked like a canceled check, so I'd make 24 months canceled checks,
so I'm sending perfect packages in, so what I did was I turned around, and I went, I bought,
sort of buying houses in E-Ware City, I would buy a house for $40,000, and I'd buy, and
I, in the name of, let's say, Alan Duncan, or Brandon Green, so I'd buy it for $40,000.
And that's somebody you created up?
Completely fictitious person, so I then turn around, they call them, now they call them,
like back then I just, it was just a phantom borrower, but now they call them synthetic
identities, so I turn around, I would go to public records, I was dating a girl at a title
company, and she explained to me that if you paid the additional doc stamps, document stamps
on a sale, then the sale shows up higher, so I bought it for $40,000, but if I pay an extra
$7 to $900, it'll show up for $160,000, you have to do the math, but $160,000 or $140,000
sale, so the house I just bought for $40,000, now looks like I bought it for $160,000, or
$200,000, or $190,000, whatever I want, I based it off square footage, I started saying,
okay, $110,000, $120,000, a square foot, in E-Ware City, so I'm buying houses that are
1,400 square feet, that are praised, that I'm recording the value, I'm buying for $40,000,
recording the value, or the sale at $190,000, $180,000, but I bought one in the name, Brandon
Green, one in the name James Red, so I've got one here, one here, one here, so I started
buying them all over, what happens is when you send out the appraiser, the appraiser
goes in and says, man, what a piece of garbage house this is, I cleaned it up a little bit,
but he'd be like, this is a rough area, and I'd say, yeah, you bought it for $190, yeah,
yeah, this whole area's going up, and they'd go, yeah, I know, but Jesus, and he goes,
well, you know, there's comparables everywhere though, you know that house over there's sold
for $190, no, that one over there's sold for $200,000, that's crazy, and you own them
all, that one there's sold for $160,000, that's insane, you have the app of course, and so
I write down the addresses for him, he's like, yeah, I'll check that out, comes back, I can't
believe it, I got you an appraisal for $190,000, that's crazy, thank you so much, well then
I take that, I send it into the lender, the lender says, yeah, there's documents that
have to support it of course, so I have supporting documents, because of course I'm making those
documents, and if they need it to be verified, well I'll come up with a cell phone, or I'll
come up with a landline, or a website, whatever I need to come up with, I'm going to come
up with, I have degree in fine arts, I'm fairly creative, so you know, I'd come up with the
documents and the verifications, and since I'd been in the mortgage industry, I knew
what they were going to ask for, what are they looking for, what's the tax ID number,
where are they going to look for it, how can I piggyback off of a real tax ID number on
a W-2, and they won't verify it, or if they do try and call it, they'll call, they'll
go online and they'll look it up in the, what used to be the business white pages, well
you can go online and put your business on it, so now they're calling a cell phone, that's
in the name of a guy that doesn't exist, to verify it, or there's something called HQ,
have you ever heard of HQ, it's a, they're these offices that you can rent, they'll be
on like the 30th floor down, some building down there, offices, well they'll also, for
40 or 50 bucks, they'll answer your phone, they'll forward them, they'll collect your
mail, they'll forward your mail.
So it seems like you've got a real deal of business in here.
Yeah, you've got a real business, real business card address, so these loans start closing,
I buy them for 40, fix them up for 10, borrowing 150, walking away with $100,000, and each guy,
I'm buying at least five or six houses, so you're getting about a million dollars worth
of loans, you're walking away with five or six hundred thousand dollars.
And that worked like a charm for a long time.
How long did you do it for?
About two years.
About two years.
About two years.
The 11.5 million is what they, we borrowed it about two years.
So.
And every time the loan would go through, the first payment would always default, or?
No, no, of course I'm not an idiot.
I mean I would pay three, I'd pay three, four, five months.
Sometimes I'd rent them out, sometimes I'd just, if the place was so trashed, I'd just
make the payments, for at least three or four months.
Keep in mind too, I'd then turn around and I'd borrow personal loans, I'd then get about
$30,000, $40,000 worth of credit cards, because now this guy's got multiple mortgages, he's
got perfect credit.
So now I can borrow, I can get a bunch of credit cards, I get a bunch of credit cards,
those guys were worth about five, six hundred thousand, so I'd pull the money out, you know,
and we would do really just stupid things, you know, I had like a drawer filled up with
socks that I'm never gonna wear, you know, I've got 60 pairs of underwear that, you know,
it's just stupid, you don't even know what to, you know, I don't really know, and I'm
thinking it's gonna last forever, because I'd figured out that when they would go into
foreclosure, they'd start going into foreclosure, they'd start sending letters, and I'd get
the letters and I would take an article from like, let's say the Tampa Tribune of a five-car
pileup, or a 20-car pileup, and I'd retype the entire article, and I'd insert my guy's
name, James Redd, into the article, and it'd say James Redd was life-flighted to Tampa
General Hospital, and so I would print out the article on newsprint, make a copy of that,
then I'd write a letter from James Redd's sister, and saying, listen, my brother was
in an accident, here's the article, highlighted, the doctors say, even if he wakes up from
the coma, he'll never work again, you might as well go ahead and foreclose on the house,
and so they just stop sending in the letters, they just foreclose, they just, they make
a few phone calls, but they get that letter, it's over, they take the house back, and they
never come looking, so it worked really well.
Yeah, sounds like it.
So, for a long time.
Crazy.
You gotta make sure you cover all your ins and stuff, you know?
Yeah, I did, you know, there were one or two times when, for instance, there was a buddy
of mine, he's in Tampa and still in real estate, so I won't mention his name, he was in charge
of making the payments on this one guy, it was like, look, I'm juggling eight people,
everybody's sharing in the profit, you got 10 grand from the last one, you got 20, you
got 15, you know, I can't be expected to make all of these payments.
Yeah, keep up with them.
Right, so here, here's red, you're gonna make the payments for, no, I remember it was Alan
Duncan, it was Alan Duncan, because it was one of my first ones I'd done, and he's about
to foreclose, so I'm like, here's Duncan, you make the payments on the house we just bought,
which was like the last house, we're gonna make a few payments, all of them are going
in foreclosure, so he didn't make the first payment, and I remember the mortgage broker,
he comes to my house and she says, oh my God, it was it, it was it, oh my God, oh it's South
Star Bank, South Star Bank, I don't know if they're still around, but South Star Bank
just called, they can't get a hold of Alan Duncan, they said they know that the bank
accounts are fake, they know, like they just started to know, we know this, we know this,
we know this, you've got a problem, so I find out, I go to the guy, the guy said, what
happened, and he says, oh my God, I forgot to make the first payment, I didn't know
what to do already, so I get them on, I get South Star on the phone, I call up and I say,
listen, this is Alan Duncan, I need to just talk with this guy, forget what his name was,
let's say, Mr. Johnson, and they go, oh he's in a meeting, I say, well this is Alan Duncan,
I assure you, he wants to talk to me immediately, please interrupt the meeting, it's extremely
important, so the secretary interrupts, and boom, they put me on the phone, and it's their
head of fraud department, some lawyer, and like a vice president of the bank, and they're
like, okay, Mr. Duncan, and I'm like, yes, they're like, okay, well, we've been, we've
spent quite a bit of time looking over your file here, and I'm like, okay, and they said,
we got $140,000 loan to a man that doesn't exist, because we know you don't exist, and
I'm like, okay, well, listen, I'm not sure where this is coming from, I mean, I understand
I missed the payment, I'm putting it in the mail today, we should have this all, oh no,
it's too late for that, it's too late for that, and so I went, okay, well, let me catch
up the payment, and he's like, no, no, no, he's like, look, you know, we're gonna submit
this to the FBI, we're gonna do a full investigation, you're gonna end up, I remember he kept saying
like a, something like a six by six, or an eight by eight concrete box, I remember he
kept saying that, you're gonna end up an eight by eight concrete box, and anyway, I said
to him, they were real cocky about it, and I'd been caught before, I got caught one time
with $2 million, but the loans had already been, part of the package had already been
sold to Household Bank, and the lender didn't, he wasn't willing to push the issue, because
it was several million dollars, he was gonna be on the hook for it, so he just continued
to sell the paper, and so he let me off, and came back and told me to keep sending loans,
this is when I owned the mortgage company, but these guys were cocky, and I remember
thinking, so as we're talking, I was like, okay, they're not, they're really cocky about
this, and so at one point I said, okay, I don't understand, I said, aren't you guys concerned
about getting your money back? I mean, you know, I'm trying to give you your money back
here, and they said, oh, we'll get our money back when we foreclose on the property, and
I went, oh, I said, now I get it, you think that your $140,000 loan is attached to a property
worth $180,000, and they're like, right, I said, no, now, now things, I could always,
like, now things are gonna shift in my favor, I can feel it, so I said, okay, let me explain
what I did, do you have the appraisal in front of you? Yeah, so I'd send them, obviously,
appraisal, they've done what's called a desktop review, where they review it, but they don't
actually go out to the property, they just review it, they have an appraisal review it,
and I explain, look, take a look at comp number one, that's owned by a guy named Lee Black,
comp number two, James Redd, comp number three, David Silver, and I explained what I did,
I did this, paid the dock stand, boom, boom, boom, I said, you told them all? I have to
at this point, I gotta try and convince them. That's your only angle, Ethan. Right, I'm
done anyway. Yeah. So I said, look, here's the deal, and so they're like, oh my God, I said,
right. So I said, as you can see, you now, you have a piece of property that I bought for $40,000.
I paid an extra $1,100 to get it to appraise at $180. You know, the appraiser had,
everybody involved, the appraiser did exactly what he's supposed to do, he didn't do anything
wrong. The mortgage broker has never seen me, she did everything by the telephone, she doesn't
have any clue what's going on. Every single document was provided by me, you lent the money,
your underwriters lent the money doing exactly what they do. Everybody involved in the transaction
does what they do on a daily basis, and I walked away with the money. Now, if you want to get your
money back, you'll let me cut you a check, and you'll agree not to contact the FBI. So we end
up working out an agreement where they let me cut them a check back, and that's not the only time
that happened. I've had it happen with Washington Mutual caught, we'd done like eight owner-occupied
properties one time. You understand, owner-occupied properties, like your house is an owner-occupied
property, right? If you go buy a rental property, it's a rental property, they lend you about 80%,
maybe 70%. Well, I had a realtor that had bought eight duplexes, all of them we said were owner-occupied
with eight different lenders, got caught that time, ended up that several of those duplexes
were on Washington Mutual's credit lines with different lenders, and Washington Mutual ended
up with all of them, and they figured out we've got three, not all eight, but they had like three.
So their lawyer contacted us and said, look, this is what you did, this is illegal, this is this,
this is that. And of course, they don't even know that the W-2s are fake, they don't even know how
bad it is. So I convinced them to take like $30,000 less money to just let us refinance them,
and the lawyer accepted that, he was okay with that. Really? It's insane. That is crazy. What's
stopping them from taking the check and then turning you in? Yeah, I mean, and that happened,
I've got a story when I was on the run where I actually had to go to a lawyer, I didn't trust
the guy, so I actually went to a lawyer, and keep in mind, too, that they've caught me,
they're trying to get the money back, I mean, it doesn't necessarily make them look good either,
nobody wants to be a part of fraud, and you don't want like the one guy, which was a pinnacle bank,
where they'd caught me with a two million, this guy doesn't, he doesn't, and even said to me,
look, nobody wants the FBI going through their files, because it's got to think of the industry
at that time was so dirty. Right, that probably opens up for multiple other people like you who
were doing the same thing. Right, who knows what they're doing. Right, right, on top of that.
Well, what ultimately happened was Allison Arnold, the girl with the brown hair and that.
Yeah, in the American greed. Yeah, she and I, we were dating, and we decided to do a scam,
and now this is after all this is over. Oh, yeah, no, I'm still, we're still,
I'm still in Tampa, I'm still running, you know, I'm consulting with the mortgage broker,
brokerage business, I'd sold it, because I couldn't own it anymore, so I had a buddy of
mine named Dave Walker, who was running the company, so I'm still going in and
committing fraud on a regular basis. Does Dave Walker have a pulse? I don't know what happened
to Dave. I mean, what he wasn't. Oh, no, he's a real person. It sounds like a made-up name, right?
Right, right, right. So does Danny, you know, so does Danny Jones. Yeah. Oh, that's a pretty
good generic one. Yeah, it was very generic. We did a loan and she, she dyed her hair black,
and she was pretending to be a person named, a real person named Rosita Perez,
and so I didn't have any fake, any women, and Rosita Perez, a broker that I knew this, she had
said that this woman had somehow or another wronged her, they'd gotten into a fight, she hated her,
she'd cost her $10,000 in damages to her house, whatever the case may be, I don't know how she
justified her, I justified it, but somehow or another Allison, we decided Allison was going
to impersonate her and I made a fake license and Allison, the woman, it was a real picture of Allison,
she dyed her hair black, she goes into the closing, we had several closings, about half a
million dollars with a closing set up, we bought a house, we satisfied the loans on the house,
and Allison was, Rosita Perez was going to borrow like half a million dollars, we had several loans
set up on the same house, and she goes in the first one and she gets a check for like a hundred
change, I don't know what it was, $110,000, $120,000, something like that, so she gets it,
the next loan she goes in to get, to close, she signs a paperwork, but the woman looks at her
and she says, you don't look like your picture, I saw that in the American ingredient, the picture
was her though, or yeah, it was her, oh really, yeah, that was what was so strange, the picture was
Allison, but Allison had changed her hair, like a couple of days beforehand, she dyed it black
for the photo, and then dyed it back, and I remember going, what are you doing, why would you dye your
hair, you know, and she's like, I'm like, your name is Rosita Perez, you know, and she's like,
she's like, oh it's fine, it's still my picture, and it was her picture, so I was like, yeah, okay,
you know, there's any number of reasons her name would be Perez, although she's pale, green eyes,
now she's got brown hair with blonde highlights, and she goes in and the woman has an issue with
it, and they put like a fraud alert on the check, because the woman starts making phone calls,
and she finds out very quickly that the property was supposed to be in someone else's name, we
changed the name of the property, she calls another title company, it unravels very quickly,
and a buddy of mine was running a scam in Orlando, and he had a bank account, and so Allison couldn't
open a bank account, so we gave the check to this, my buddy, he ends up putting it in his bank
account, he gets a call a couple days later from, well now, but keep in mind, there's a flag on,
a red flag, it's been, it's, there's a, like an alert on the check, so they get alerted,
and the bank calls him and says, hey, by the way, can you come in and sign the back of the check,
because I did sign it, yeah, but because it's over $100,000, we need to witness it,
and so I remember he's going to the bank, and I said, I called him, and I said, hey,
what's going on, he said, oh, the manager called me, he needs me to come in, I said,
something doesn't sound right about that, never heard of that, cash, or I've deposited lots of
checks for over $100,000, nobody's ever said they had to witness my signature, anyway, he's like,
oh, it's fine, it's fine, you know, he goes in the bank, he gets arrested, so they let him go,
you know, he says he didn't cooperate, you know, and start the investigation,
I know differently, but hey, he's a friend of mine, and I like the guy, and I grew up with him,
and he's a nice guy, and he's in a bad spot, and you know, and I love him to death, and so a task
force is put together to investigate me, and how hard is it to prove that this is a fraud,
all you got to do is go on Hillsborough County tax collectors, tax appraisers website and say,
green, blue, red, I mean, not the most brilliant, at the time it seemed really cute,
not the most brilliant of all the things I've done, so very quickly they realized, okay,
you're like the riddler, we're the safe brothers, stupid, stupid, so I look back and I think,
what were you thinking, when did you think that was going to be, how did you think that was going
to be okay, so they put it together, and months later, you know, months later,
I'm dating, I just started dating another girl by the name of, by the name of Rebecca Halk,
and I just started dating her, single mother, single mother, yeah, I, you know,
really irritated about the whole American Greed single mother thing,
so they had some good producers on that episode, they really, it is a spice it up a little bit,
but I mean, it is, what I already did, isn't it bad enough, you know, do we have to say,
he was also mean to children and small animals, I mean, what are you doing, is it bad enough,
so anyway, so I just started dating her, and so one day, I had dated this girl like a month,
okay, so I don't even know this girl, so I go to work one day, and this guy, a sheriff's deputy
that I knew, his name was Steve Sutton, and I'd done like a million dollars worth of real estate
for him, got him, so he comes in one day and he says, listen, I gotta talk to you, and I go, yeah,
what's up, man, you know, hey, buddy, what's up, hey, talk, imagine how bad this day was,
I'm like, yeah, what's going on, he says, I used to date a girl on the Tampa PD,
okay, he said, she was a part of a task force recently that was just handed to the FBI,
he said, the task force was on you, they're gonna arrest you in a couple of days, my name came up
because of all the real estate you've done, he said, and she came to his house in the morning,
like six o'clock in the morning, knocked on his door and said, don't talk to Cox anymore,
they're arresting him in a couple of days, so he said, I just thought I wanted to tell you,
we're friends, I wanted to let you know, he said, I'm not gonna talk to you anymore,
I don't know what to do, and I said, you know, don't do anything, you don't know anything,
you're not gonna get in trouble because you don't know anything, just say, you came to me,
you need it alone, I got you the loan, that's all you know, you're not a mortgage broker, you don't
know, so he said, okay, he goes, what are you gonna do, I said, I'm leaving, I'm already,
I'm federal probation, so I'm already on federal probation for the first one,
I mean, that's pretty bad, what am I gonna do, the judge, he wasn't happy the first time,
I can imagine going back in on 11.5 million, that's not gonna work out well for me, so I thought,
yeah, all I know about prison is Shawshank Redemption, I can't go to prison, look at me,
I mean, it was 15 years ago, I was a lot prettier, but dear God, I can't go to prison,
I'm as soft as cotton. Being pretty is not necessarily good for prison. Yeah, I'm like,
I can't do this, I gotta go, so it was like a Thursday, literally the next day I got out 80
grand in cash, that's all I could do, we had probably a million or so dollars in the bank,
but you can't go in and say, give me a million, I'm sending people in with checks for 9,000,
8,000, people will start to figure it out too, and you go, hey look, can you go cash 7,000,
yeah man, I can't, they're realizing you look panic-stricken and something's wrong,
so it's like, okay, I understand, so I get out like 80 grand, pack my bags, Becky happens to come
by, we were supposed to go out like Friday night or something, and she sees me and she's like,
what are you doing? I'm packing my bag, what are you doing here? She's like, hey, I'm ready,
what are you doing? I'm ready to go to dinner, and I'm like, you haven't been answering your
phone? I was like, fuck, I got a problem, so I tell her, and she tells me, I want to come with you.
She wants to hit the road. What do you even want to come with you? Are you crazy? You've got a son,
and she's like, no, you don't understand, she said, basically, he'd basically been raised by
his father, I brought him down here, I can't handle him, he's been picked up twice after curfew,
he got caught smoking pot, he's failing his grades, he was going back in December anyway,
or at the end of, you know, he was going back anyway, I'm sorry, at the end of the school year,
it was December, the first part of December, and so I'm going, I don't, okay, well, we don't even
know each other, I'm like, no offense, I remember telling her, look, this is never going to become
love for me, you know what I mean, it's been a week, and I mean, it's been a month, but you know,
this isn't happening, she's like, look, I don't care about that, she said, look, you don't even,
and I was like, look, you have a normal life, you have a family, remember, she told me,
she said, you don't even know why came to Florida, she said, I got caught stealing, she had caught
stealing money from her boss, which was a casino lawyer, and he didn't turn her in,
because, and she was using the money to gamble, so she owed him like 10 or 12,
15,000, something like that, so she said, he says, look, I'm going to send you to Florida to work
for the dog track, he didn't turn her in because she's sleeping with him, doesn't want the wife to
find out, so he sends her to Florida, she meets me, I'm going on the run, she wants in, so you're
an adulteress, thieving, yeah, you know, so all attributes, by the way,
wow, she's perfect basically, you're like, solid argument, you know, so she comes, so I said,
okay, you know, you can come with me, so she comes with me, we go straight to Atlanta,
she rents a house, we remove, take the, I assume the guy who owns the house's identity,
and I borrow like $400,000, and I pull the money out, we pull the money out, and we take off,
so now we got about $400,000, we have 80s, you rented the house from, you rented a house in
Atlanta, right, in a neighborhood in Atlanta, right, and then you, how did you get the $400,000
in the $400,000? Well, 100,000, rented a house for like $190, it was valued about $190, so okay,
so the value of that house was $190, if it was, okay, right, so we're paying whatever it is,
$13, $1400 a month in rent, and so what I did was I went downtown, and he had two loans on the
house from Bank of America, and I created a satisfaction of mortgage, remember I told you,
I dated a girl who worked for a title company, so I know how a satisfaction, what a satisfaction
looks like, so I create a satisfaction of mortgage, I then go back down, and I record it,
well what happens is if you have a mortgage, you have a, for instance, your house right now,
you've got a whatever, $200,000, $300,000 mortgage on the house, to let's say Bank of America,
well when you pay that off, how does public records know it's paid off? Bank of America gets
their $300,000, well what they do is they then create a satisfaction of mortgage, they then mail
it in with $7 to Hillsborough County, or what are we, Pinellas or something, Pinellas County
public records, and they say hey, the mortgage that was taken out to Danny Jones on this day,
for this amount of money, is hereby satisfied, with this loan number, or whatever number,
is hereby satisfied. The guy who owned this house had no clue that his mortgage was now
satisfied. Oh no no, two of them, so he has no clue, and all I did was make a fake ID, I figured
out how to make like a fake ID, so I don't even have a real ID at this point, I just made a fake
one, I mean I did, I started going, what happened was I realized look, making the fake ID is a
problem, you got to use the laminates, you have to overcome the issue of the hologram, I mean
you have to rewrite, it's a pain in the ass, so it's much easier to just go into the DMV and get
you to issue a license in somebody's name. You get them to print it for you. Right, so they print
it up, so it's easier to just steal someone's identity, so then I very quickly realized that,
but at this point I needed his ID, so I made, I didn't even have his real middle name,
so I just made up like, it was like S was like the middle name, I was like Sean, so I end up
making a name, I don't have his real date of birth, keep in mind I just need to go in and get a check,
I don't even have his social security number, I just need the same name on the ID, because I'm
borrowing from hard money lenders, so they charge like 14% interest, and so
matter of fact those guys, a couple of them were on American grade, there were three,
one lent like 110, one lent 150, another one lent 150, total came to like 400,000 roughly.
And how, when you get the loans from the hard money lenders,
they can't see that there's other hard money lenders giving you loans?
It's called a shotgunning scam, and so what happens is you do it so quickly, you apply with
multiple lenders, and you close within a day or two of each other, and if you do that,
what happens is the documents are prepared at the title company, you sign, you get your check,
well a couple of days later, when they've got all their paperwork done, they mail it in, so
these things get mailed into public records saying, this loan, there's a new mortgage on this
property, please record it, and here's the payment for that, and they go, okay, so public records
puts it down, and they go, okay, here's the address, here's the folio number, here's this,
okay, okay, boom, recorded, two days later, another one shows up, wow, they go, okay, same thing,
there, boom, another loan, another mortgage, two hours later, boom, oh, same one, keep
in mind, this woman has, she's doing this, that's all she does, so she doesn't even recognize the
even if she did, it's irrelevant, you're allowed to have three or four mortgages on the same property,
she has no idea what it's valued at, it's a recording system, not a verification system,
they simply record documents that are mailed in that you pay for, and so they get it, boom,
record it, record it, record it, so I've got $400,000, I go open a couple bank accounts,
I deposit the checks, I remove the cash, and that's a funny story, this is a funny story,
so I go in, I get a real driver's license, right, in the name of a guy named Scott Cugno,
so I got a Scott Cugno driver's license, real license, I have his real source, everything,
so one of the checks I had issued to Scott Cugno for $29,000, so I go into
SunTrust, I walk into SunTrust, and I say, hi, Scott Cugno, I need to cash this,
and the guy goes, $29,000, why don't you just deposit in your own bank account, Mr. Cugno,
and I say, well, because my bank account, I'm in Georgia, it's in Florida,
I'm gonna hold it for a few days, and I need the cash, okay, well, okay, well, it's really odd,
and you know, okay, well, here's my driver's license, here's my, here's a credit card,
driver's license, here's my Social Security card, I'm good, you need a thumb print,
thumb print, I'm already wanted, so, you know, he's like, okay, well, go ahead and have a seat,
I have a seat, my cell phone, give my cell phone, is your Razor phone, my Razor,
Razor, Motorola Razor, Motorola Razor is there, and Becky's sitting in the car, so I wait,
the guy comes out and he says, okay, this is like the president, whatever, the manager of the bank,
he comes out, he goes, okay, he said, look, why don't, I don't understand, what do you need the
cash for? And I went, I said, we're, I cashed checks, I said, I'm a general contractor, I just
did a job for somebody, they paid me with this money, and I have to, I said, I typically write
checks to the guys that work for me, and I cash the check, so they don't have to go to check cashing
companies, and he goes, okay, that makes sense, that makes sense, he knows something's wrong,
right, he just can't figure it out, right, he walks off, but I'm not leaving, if something's
wrong, and you start asking those questions, you would leave, most people would leave,
but I know you can't, I'm thinking he can't, he's not going to figure this out, so the phone rings,
boom, boom, phone rings, I pick it up, it's Becky, she goes, hey, she said, what are you doing,
what's taking so long, I went, calm down, the guy is, he's a jerk, you know, he's been a jerk
about it, didn't want to give him the money, well then leave, I go, no, no, I can't leave,
I said, he's checking on stuff, so she goes, well, I go, look, calm down, she's nervous,
yeah, if the cops show up, if you see two cruisers pull in, call me, I'll run out the back,
you meet me at the 7-Eleven down the street, so she's like, okay, okay, hang up the phone,
a few minutes later he comes out, he asks some other question, what about this, what about that,
I'm like, where'd you get the check, I said, I got the check from the homeowner,
and he goes, okay, and I said, I don't understand what's taking so long, I said,
it's a cashier's check written from your bank, the money's good, he's like, no, the money's there,
it's just, there are certain protocol we have to go through, I said, okay, okay, so he leaves,
the phone rings again, what's taking so long, I don't know, the guy's a dick, I don't know what
to say, he's taking forever, he's checking, checking on what, I don't know, comes out again,
and I said, hey, what is taking so long, and he goes, well, we're trying to, he said,
turns out that the name of the guy is Michael Shanahan, that the guy that owns the house,
and I went, oh, keep in mind, I'm Michael Shanahan. Right, you're Michael Shanahan.
So I went, okay, and he says, and we're just trying to get ahold of Mr. Shanahan,
he's the guy you did the work for, I said, right, he goes, we're just trying to verify the check
with him, they're now trying to get in contact with Michael Shanahan, who I've pretended to be
using this zone, and I've already signed it for the check, I borrowed 400,000, so I'm like, Jesus,
it's Christ, so the phone rings again, it's Becky, boom, hey, what's going on, she goes,
what is taking so long, I said, he's trying to verify the check with Michael Shanahan,
she, it was complete silence, and she just suddenly goes, get out of the bank,
get out, I'm like, I can't get out of the bank, I'm walking out with the money,
if the cops show up, call me, and I hang up the phone, so I'm sitting there, the phone rings again,
I look at the phone, I don't recognize the number, it's the bank, I pick up the phone, I go,
hello, they go, hi, Michael Shanahan, this is Jennifer from SunTrust Bank, and I'm like,
she's right behind you, she's behind the window, behind the touch, I'm in a glass cubicle,
you're looking right at her as she's talking to you, yes, and she goes, hi, we have a Scott Cugno
here at the bank, he's trying to cash a check that apparently you had issued off of a refinance
that you made, and I go, yes, we just need you to verify the amount, and I go, yeah, I believe
it's Scott Cugno, and I'm pretty sure it was for 29,000 even, and she's like, that's right,
and I appreciate it, and thank you very much, and I said, real quick, I said, how did you get my
number, this number's on the list, and she goes, oh, we called the title company, and they gave us
the phone number, had she called information, she'd have gotten the real Michael Shanahan, but she
called the title company, because they did have, that's where they banked, so she called them,
they gave her the number, they called, I said, okay, she said, oh, hope it's not a problem,
not a problem, no big deal, thank you very much, boom, hang up the phone, sorry, wow, so, yeah,
so the guy walks out five minutes later, counts out $29,000 and stares at me,
and he gives me the 29,000, and I remember, I'm cautious, but I'm also feeling real cocky,
oh yeah, so I stand up, and he goes, Mr. Cugno, he said, I'd like to, I'd like to let you know,
I feel very apprehensive about this transaction, I go, really, what is it exactly?
I mean, I was stuffing money in my pocket, what is it exactly? And he goes, he said, I can't put
my finger on it, and I go, I'm sure it'll come to you, and I walk off, I get in the car, tell Becky
what happened, I'm like, you're not gonna believe this, fucking off, drive off, I mean, she's like,
oh my god, oh my god, wouldn't, I never even tried to cash a check for that, ever since then,
it was always under 29, it was always under 10,000, wow. Because over that, they give you,
they investigate it more? Well, yeah, I mean, I don't know, but that, keep in mind, I had been
doing like 9,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000. Yeah, no problem. No problem, and then I, one time,
I finally went, you know, this is taking forever, I'm just gonna start, what do I care? They can
fill out a CCR, I don't care, call the IRS, I'll be gone before they show up, so I didn't care,
you know, which was a mistake, because had he made just the wrong call, it was just luck.
Oh yeah, and they call you when you're in the bank, that's crazy. So, that's insane. We got all the
money, we take off, I, we left with the 400,000 change, what did we do? Oh yeah, now it was
more than that. You left the house in Atlanta. Yeah, because where did you go after that?
Well, you know, what's funny is I totally neglected to mention the other, like,
we borrowed, we'd also gone into Tallahassee and done the same thing in Tallahassee,
so, but that was uneventful. I was just a regular old scam. We had more than 400,000,
so why is it only 400, oh, that's right, there was that other one. It's pretty bad when you,
when you start forgetting about the 100,000 you stole here, the 200,000 here, and you're like,
that's right. Now, what happens? I feel bad about that, don't judge me, I see you judging me,
he's got this look like this. What happened to the actual Michael Shanahan in the house?
Very upset Michael Shanahan. So, is he out of all that, like, his house is now paid off?
Well, yeah, they don't look like that. But it's not really paid off. So, what actually happens?
What happens is, he can claim against the title insurance. Okay. You know, and that's one of the
things that I, you know, it's like, I very easily justified in my mind, I'm just borrowing money
from the bank, and I never really thought I was screwing over those people that own the house.
Because of insurance. Because they have, I always got title insurance. Right.
And for example, the guys in the show, American Greed, they talk about how one of the guys got
paid back from the title insurance, and the other guy says he didn't get paid back. Now,
it's my understanding that all of them had gotten paid back. But in the show, he says he didn't get
paid back. So, he may not have been paid back. I'm not sure how that's possible. I mean, the title
policy has been produced that way. Well, I think maybe they just fought it. But I mean, look,
you've got a title policy that ensures you against fraud. One of them is, or clouded title,
whatever the case may be. It was very clear that it covered fraud. He should have been paid back.
Now, whether he was or not, I don't know. He says he's not listed, as far as I can tell,
on the people that I have to pay back. I believe that the title agency that he got the loan from
probably paid them back. But somebody owns that agency, and I probably owe them the money. You
know what I'm saying? So, it's like, look, somebody somewhere got dicked over. So, we take the money,
we go to Charlotte, North Carolina. How much money do you have at that time?
Like $500, $600,000. Cash. Right. In cash. In a little duffel bag. You ever see those guys,
it's like, it's like half a million dollars. It's huge. It's pouring out of the bag.
Are those in ones? Is that stripper money? Because that's not in 20s and not 50s. It's
not that much money. So, we go to Charlotte. We go downtown. We rent a place, amazing condo
downtown Charlotte, like a couple thousand dollars a month. And 15 years ago, that was a lot.
A lot. Yeah. Charlotte was amazing. We lived there. We got new cars. So, we're driving like
brand new Infinities. And what did Becky get? She had two cars. Keep this going. I'm going to pee
real quick. All right. All right. Sorry. I told you, I could go on. And I'm giving you, I'm giving
you the, this is like the condensed version, right? Oh, yeah, this is good. Oh, I'm sorry.
No, that's the best type of guest to have, honestly. Oh, is it? Oh, yeah, for sure.
I'll just talk and talk about it. No, it's good. The stories are super fascinating.
So, you guys are living in Atlanta at that time? No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, Charlotte,
North Carolina. So, we go to Charlotte. You know, we set up there. We hang out for like a month or
so. Yeah. I think we ended up going on vacation. We went to where we go. What's the plan at that
point? There's no plan. You're just rolling with it. I mean, the plan is get three, four, five
million dollars, something like that. And, you know, and I don't even know to take off, retire,
invest it in real estate, do something, you know, and you're just going to bounce around,
build up as much as you think you can. The plan was don't get caught and go to prison. Yeah. So,
I, in Charlotte, that's where we got a tremendous amount of plastic surgery. I think
Becky had already gotten like a boob job or a fresh job. What's the politically correct version of
boob job as far as I know? Yeah. That's what I call them. So, she got, you know, what she called
the twins. So, she got a boob job. Then we went to Charlotte. We got, I got a, she got surgery
again, additional surgery like liposuction, that sort of thing. And really, to be honest, she was
smoking hot anyway. You know what I'm saying? She had the whole pink thing going on. She had the
short haircut. She was cute. She probably weighed 110 pounds. She probably weighed 115 when I met
her. She's now, she's got five pounds of silicone and she's down to 110. We're jogging. We're working
out. We've got great clothes, great cars. I think she mentioned she's got, she's got, you know,
she's got Rolexes. She's got diamonds. She's got everything she wanted. So, but the money's going.
Yeah, it's spending fast, right? Yeah. You buy a 60,000 dollar vehicle, another one for this,
even if you finance them. It's 20,000 down. We don't have really any credit at this point. We're
just starting credit over. But we'd figured out, I'd figured out that how to get fake IDs, or
sorry, real IDs, but in fake people. Right. What happened was we were sitting at a light one day
and I was like, the problem with this whole situation is that, for instance, I'd started
using other people's IDs. I put, ran to add the newspaper and people would call up to,
to, because I realized I can't make a fake ID. I can't get pulled over by the police and give them
a fake plastic ID, a fake ID. They're not going to make it back to their car. A cop's going to go,
okay, that dude's, you're done. Get out. You know, he's a bank. Okay. But not a, not a
patrolman. Right. So I, I realized we need real IDs. And so when we were in Atlanta, we started
acquiring real people, real IDs. And what I did was initially I put ads in the newspaper for,
it was like a home loans available, good credit, bad credit, no problem. You pay a couple hundred
bucks and you get 20 calls a day for the four or five days. Yeah. And people are calling up to
try and get home loans. And it doesn't matter if they have good credit or bad credit,
I just need you to have a driver's license. Right. You just want some info. Right. So I start
asking questions, you know, and I'd done it a thousand times. You know, I've done, I've taken
a thousand applications. So it's, you know, hey, name, date of birth, social security number, where
do you live? What's your, what's your date? What's your, how many kids do you have? You know,
you know, where do you work? What's your phone number? What's the address? Rambling right off
and then you get to the last page, which is like, it's a bunch of statistical questions for the
federal government. And then as you, you just add one or two in there, where were you born,
what county and state were you born in? What's your mother's maiden name? By this point, they,
they're just answering every year. They spewed all the info. Right. They don't realize,
in the course of answering 30 questions, you've given me enough to steal your identity.
Wow. Yeah. So. And that's what you did with a homeless guy, right? Right. Well, initially,
it was real people, but one of those guys was a guy named Michael Eckert. And Michael Eckert had
told me specifically when I was asking all these questions at the very end, he goes, oh, wait a
minute. He said, I'm a felon. You know, he, not about, he goes, he said, I just got my driver's
license back. No, he said, I think he did say I'm a felon. He said I'm a felon, but it was like,
it was a DUI. And I went, do you have a driver's license? He goes, yeah, yeah, I just got it back
like a year ago. And I thought for him to have lost his license and be a felon, he, he had to
have lost it multiple times before it becomes like a felony. So at that time, I mean, I'm pretty sure
that's how it works. So I just remember thinking, you're a felon because I'm a DUI for some reason.
Or even if it wasn't from the DUI, I'm assuming it was. I'm thinking, what if he loses his license
again? I could be driving around with the guys. I could have a car, two cars, an apartment,
credit card, everything in a guy's name. Cause see what I would do is I would pair them with
social security numbers that were recently issued. I would go straight into social security number and
get what a social security card issued to Michael Eckert. And I'd get a whole new credit profile
based on him. New address. So knew everything. Lots of people had the name Michael Eckert. I
changed the middle name slightly. Boom. Credit profile, 700 credit scores. So by a car, house,
whatever. My point is, is that I'm driving around. What if I get pulled over? This guy's got a DUI.
I go to jail. I get fingerprinted. I'm done. Right. So, and Becky and I, we talked about that
multiple times. What if you get, what if you get grabbed? And I was like, look, worst case scenarios
at this time, I don't know if this is how it works now, but this was over 15 years ago.
I was like, worst case scenario is if I get grabbed and they bring me downtown and they
fingerprint me, they won't run the prints right away. They only run them right away through AFIS
if your identity's in question. Give my, my identity won't be in question because I'm a
real driver's license. So if it's not in question, they're going to fingerprint me.
You can get me, I'll get, it'll be something stupid that I get arrested for. So you can easily get me
out within 24 hours. You get me out before they run my prints and we're gone. And she was like,
okay, okay, okay. Cause a lot of these small towns, if they don't run your prints right away,
they do them in batches or they don't, you know, they don't, it wasn't back then. There was no,
it wasn't the digital scanner thing. They're printing you. So even if when they did have them,
they don't necessarily run them. They get charged for running them and your identity's not in question.
So we talked about that. Anyway, my point is I started stealing the identities of real people,
but one day we're sitting at a red light and she, I said, what we need is an identity of
someone who doesn't, isn't really using their identity. And she's like, what? I said, I don't
know. She was like mental patients or something. What I was like, she's people about people that
died. And I said, no, because when you die, it gets registered so that the, they can get the death
benefit of $250. And so social security knows you're dead. So it shows up on your credit profile.
So I can't use those. It's no good. We need permanent IDs. And I went, she's like, well,
I could when I went and there was a guy staying in there holding a home. We, you know, hungry,
we'll work for food. So I don't go like that guy. Yeah. That's just the bomb. I was like, yes.
So we pull over, I go up to the guy, I go, Hey man, what's up? He's like, what's up? I said,
can I ask you some questions real quick? I'll give you 20 bucks right now. Five minutes.
He's, yeah, what's up? And I start asking him questions. Do you have a felony? Do you have a
driver's license? How'd you lose your license? Was it a DUI? Was it, you know, and it wasn't,
he didn't have a DUI. It just expired. He doesn't have a car. How would I get a DUI?
You know, I've been arrested multiple times. I don't have a felony though. I have a bunch of
misdemeanors. So as you start, so I came up with a statistical survey form where I went around and
I would question homeless people. I was trying to get their information to try and determine where
we were going to, where the Salvation Army was going to open their next homeless facility.
You just keep a guy 20 bucks and say, of course you take a survey for the Salvation Army. We're
trying to determine where we're going to know where we're going to open our next homeless facility.
That's what you're telling. Yeah. And they give him 20 bucks and I take their information. They
have no clue. And then I turn around, I order their birth certificate, I order their social
security card, I order their, their high school transcripts, I order everything. I then turn
around, I go into a state where they don't have a license. I go in the DMV. Hey, just moved the
state, lost my license. Here's my proof. I would register to vote in their name, get the card within
a couple of days. I just registered, here's my voter's registration card. Here's my birth certificate.
Here's my social. And here's my high school transcript. And obviously I'm a resident of
the state. Sometimes I would say, have a, sometimes I'd have a lease for my apartment
in the guy's name. And they would go, okay, great, stand over there, take a picture, bam,
bam, bam. You got a driver's license. They just print you out the driver's license.
I then turn around, I go straight to, straight to the passport office. What, not straight,
a couple of days later. Go straight there. Here's my birth certificate. Here's my driver's license.
And they take all the information down. You pay like a $55 fee. They mail it in.
Two weeks later, you get a passport. So I mean, so what happened was once we moved from Atlanta,
we went to, I mean, we're going everywhere. We're going to, you know, we're going to
Las Vegas. We're going to, we go to Jamaica. We're going to, where else? I mean, we're just
traveling all over the place. Yeah. So, so I remember we went to Las Vegas and we,
this is, this, okay. Listen, what time, what, how much time do we have? Because this is a good
story. We got all night, man. This is a good story. We got plenty of time. You're going to
allow this. This is, this is, and it's horrible. And I feel bad. I like to say, I feel bad about
this. Okay. So we go to Las Vegas. So Becky can see her son. Yeah. And we give, we hand over some
money. And, you know, she, you know, she's handing off money to family and making everybody happy.
And she's buying presents and doing all the things that is going to make her feel good.
So while we're there, I said, look, let's get, let's, let's get to do some surveys. Yeah.
Because she goes, oh my God. So we drive to an area and there were so many homeless people. I was,
I was nervous about getting out. That's the first place I thought of with homeless people. I'm like,
that'd be perfect. Las Vegas. Well, and I didn't want to pull out, I didn't want to pull out a
lot of money. So I was like, man, there's just too many of them. Oh yeah. So she goes, okay,
so we go to another place. I'm barred. She, well, she went, she goes, okay, another place. She goes,
how about these guys? There were a couple of guys sitting on a park bench and they were
pretty clean cut. They were so clean cut. I thought, they may not be homeless. So I got out and one
of the guys gets up and he goes, yeah, what's going on? I said, hey, uh, did you mind taking a
survey real quick? And this happened all the time. I said, and they go, no, I'm not interested. I paid
$20 cash right now. You're gonna give me $20 cash right now, right? It takes three minutes,
17 questions. Yeah, man, what's going on? I started asking the questions, you know, his name,
Gary Sullivan, date of birth, social security number, blah, blah, blah, blah. We're going
down the thing. I asked, you ever been arrested? No, like, hesitation and give you their social?
No. Really? No. The few guys that did hesitate, I would always go, um, cool, I have to have it.
And I'd say, well, okay, I look at them, I go, okay, well, what would I do with it?
And they go, well, you could steal my identity. I go, do you have good credit?
They go, no, I got shit credit. I go, okay, well, then what good would it be? Yeah.
They go, do you have a bank account? No. Okay, I don't, so I don't understand. And if you don't
want the $20, it's fine. So it's no big deal. I got somebody else. You were right behind you,
you were. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Okay, here it is. But I remember, now I want to see the
social security card because I don't think you're going to get me a bad one. Fake number. Yeah.
Let me, so now I got to see it. Yeah. So anyway, Gary Sullivan gives me this information. And as
we're going down the list, and I start to ask, there's random questions I would ask, you ever had
a passport, you ever had, how many states have you had a driver's license in, which state,
that sort of thing. When was the last time you were gainfully employed that, you know,
or, do you have a felony? And the guy goes, he goes, no, I don't have a felony. Because I've
got a misdemeanors. And I went, misdemeanors. Yeah, he goes, yeah, for prostitution. And I went,
okay. I went, okay, well, you mean solicitation? Because, you know, my mind, guys get charged with
solicitation. Right. Didn't even occur to me. And I went, you mean solicitation? He goes, no,
prostitution. He goes, I offered to blow an undercover cop for $20. And I went, really? He
goes, yeah, I've been arrested a few times for it. I went, oh, okay. I said, wow, I, okay. And
he goes, yeah, he said, well, you know, 20 bucks. Wow. So you gave him a survey for 20,
he's trying to, yeah, a survey. I'll take 200 surveys. Good day for that guy. I remember,
I said, he said, that's what I thought you were here for. And that's what they're hanging out
there for. And I went, he goes, this is basically an area where sex traffickers hang out. Oh,
Becky knew that. She's sitting in the car laughing. I'm like, unbelievable. So I take his
information and I leave, get in the car. She's telling me, talking about my boyfriend, like,
oh, what'd your boyfriend say? So we leave, we go back to Charlotte, we set up, we're all happy.
I figure, okay, well, I need, we need some more money. I gotta get a couple, I gotta get at least
a million dollars on the next one than we do. So I go to Columbia, South Carolina, I buy a couple
houses. And one of the houses I buy is a house for 200, it's like 230,000. So basically, I just
got a realtor and we drove around the houses and I just put contracts on owner financing. I need
you to own a finance. I need you to own a finance. And they, and you put five houses, five contracts
on five houses, at least one or two of them come back and they want to talk about it. So
one of the realtors comes back and says, my clients are, he's a, he's a doctor and they're
moving to Atlanta and they're interested in doing the owner financing. And I said, okay, cool.
So I said, okay, so I'll give you guys 10% down on a 200 and I think it was 225,
and 225,000 in our house. So I'll give you, give you 25 grand down. So and you own a finance
$200,000 and they had a mortgage on the house for 200,000. So it's called a wrap around mortgage.
So they're going to give me a mortgage that wraps around their mortgage. So I pay them,
they pay the mortgage company. So we go to the closing. We have a closing and I think Bridget
Brown is on the American greed. She, I think she's on the American greed. Pretty sure she is.
I remember, I remember there was three girls on there. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, this was a Dr. Brown's wife. And so we go to the closing. We go to the closing and
we just have a, it's just a quick closing. I mean, later on when I watched America greed,
she says that she talked about how she'd had her identity stolen before. And she says that my eyes
got real wide. Is that the lady with the kid? Yes. The sick kid, right? Yes. So we go to the closing.
I do remember her saying that. I don't remember my eyes getting wide, but I remember thinking,
oh, okay, you know, I'm just in and out. We're not hanging out. We're not making friends. I'm not
asking any, any personal questions. She mentions that we sign, I leave, I now own the house in the
name of Gary Sullivan's name. So I then turn around and I go, and I, I go downtown a week or
two later and I satisfy the loan on the house in their name, the one they had. And I satisfy the
loan that they had in the name of like federal credit union or something like that. Federal,
yeah, it was like federal savings credit union or something bank. And that's when I started signing
like the, the mortgage, the satisfactions with like cartoon characters. You remember, like,
I signed it with the name Seamont Gummary Burns, which once again, I thought that was extremely
cute. Yeah, did not play well in front of the judge. A couple years later, he no sense of humor
about that. Yeah, didn't you like leave some sort of like paper mache statue in somebody's house?
That's actually not true. I did leave it. And he, the guy said that I left the paper mache statue
in the middle of the living room like screaming, taunting him or something. But I have a degree
in fine arts. Fraud is not a full time job. We're jogging. We're working out. We're doing rock
climbing. We're going on vacations. We're still bored. And one of the things I did was I made
like a paper mache guy and I was, I was working on it. But by the time we started getting the money
out, I didn't finish it, have time to finish it. And I couldn't fit it in the back of the vehicle
we were driving. So I left it in the garage when he shows up at closing or at the, that was pretty
creepy to me like on the show. I made it sound less. You were like, well, what's, what's funny is
that when it, it ended up at, at sentencing and on the shows, it's that I left it in the middle
of the, he says, when I walked in, I'd left in the middle of the living room with, and the entire
house was trashed. We had a, a bed upstairs in the master bedroom. We had no furniture.
The house wasn't trashed. We'd had the carpets actually steam clean before we left. Yeah. So
there was nothing too trash. So it was like, you know, it's like, look, I'm already in a bad spot
here. Can you, can you please not say that? You know, I know you're tweaking it a little bit to
make it worse, but it's already bad. Yeah. You know, so they, it's always the, the tweak of the
and he left it here and he was taunting me. No, it was in the garage. Right. Along with the back
seat of the vehicle we were driving because we had so much crap, we couldn't pack it. We had to
pull out the back seat. Anyway, but whatever, like I said, it's the same thing. It's like saying
you're a murderer. You killed 13 people and he's, oh, it's not true. I killed 11. So it doesn't
matter whether I did leave it. It was there. Still feel like the house was clean. But anyway,
so we get, we borrow, we go to the one house. I satisfy the loans in public record. I then turn
around. I have no credit. Gary Sullivan has no credit, but I have a house worth $210,000.
So I turn around and I go to multiple banks and I borrow money. I borrow 190,000 from one bank,
196 from another bank, 180. Against that house? Yeah. So I borrow like five loans. It's like 900,000
and I borrowed another 400,000 on the other house. So it's $1.3 million. So then I go to all the
closings within a few days of each other. Now, one of the loans I'd closed was with BB&T bank,
sorry, one of the loans I had applied for was with BB&T bank. I applied for the loan. Well,
the loan officer went on vacation. So she went on vacation and didn't process the paperwork. So by
the time we close all these loans, I closed the loans, I then turn around, I've opened up like
six or eight bank accounts. So I'm putting a couple hundred in each bank account and I'm
varying the balances by swapping out cancel checks so that the balances don't just drain. They're
shooting up and down and up and down and up and down until they drain completely. So I'm not having
any problems taking the money out. So I'm taking the money out 9,000, 9,000, 9,000. It's plenty
of banks. I'm just driving back and forth. This is my job. I drive back and forth and I pick up 30
to 60 to 90,000 to 20,000 every few days. I drive back and forth and the money's piling up.
And then one day, what happens is BB&T's loan officer comes back from vacation and she says,
hey, she calls up Gary Sullivan, Mr. Sullivan. Guess what? We're ready to close. It's been
two weeks since I started closing. So if they were to now check the public records,
they're going to see that there's mortgages showing up. And they sent an abstractor down
there to physically look at public records. I can't have this woman send anybody down there.
She's like, oh, we're going to close. I'm like, well, did you already do the abstraction? She
goes, oh, yeah, they're going down to like today and it. Oh, fuck. Oh, that's a problem. I'm like,
okay, well, listen, I already closed the loan. So let's not have her go down there. And she's like,
okay, no big deal. I'm like, well, please call the abstractor. Make sure she doesn't go ahead. Oh,
no, she's down there anyway. I understand. But let's go ahead and stop her from going ahead.
What can you say? I'm panicked. Where is she? I'm headed. Exactly. Let me stop. I'm going to
slash your tires. But I'm thinking it's going to be okay. Yeah. So one of the things that
happens in the meantime, by the way, is that the other house that I had, one of those lenders
did a loan. They did a loan on the second house and they caught that they were in third position.
So that's a loan for like 180,000, 170, 180, something like that. And so I get a phone call
saying, hey, is this Gary Sullivan? I said, yeah, it is Gary Sullivan. He says, listen,
my name is, you know, let's say Mr. Thompson from Washington Mutual. And we caught 150 or $160,000
loan on your house on that house. Oh, okay. He said, and it turns out that we found we realized
that there's another loan on the house. We're in second position. And this is an issue. And
we're contemplating calling FBI. I'm not sure what you want to do about that. But I wanted to
see if there was an explanation. I said, okay, well, wait a second now, Mr. Thompson,
let's talk about this. Let's not get crazy. It's not, you know. So I said, look, let me,
let me call you back. I think what's in both of our interest is that we get Washington Mutual's
money back as soon as possible. And he says, well, I agree. So let's, let's work on that.
So I drive to my corporate lawyer in Columbia and I explain the situation to him and he says,
so you're saying you've got four or five loans on this one house. I'm like, yes, like,
like 400,000. I said, he says, what about this other house? And I said, oh, I've got like 900,000
on that one. And he goes, okay, well, Gary, that's a problem. And now I've got two lawyers.
They're two lawyers and they're like, this is a problem. I look, my immediate problem
is paying these guys back the 160 right now. So let's pay them back the 160. And he goes,
okay, we can, I'll, I'll, I'll call the guy. So he calls up and he says, listen, you know, 160,000,
he can work this out. Let's work this out. And I said, okay, and, you know, we go back and forth
and I'm like, look, he wants 160. I'm like, look, I'll give him the 160. He's like, whoa, they also
want the prepayment penalty. I'll pay the prepayment penalty. Okay, well, they also want the first
month. Well, that's ridiculous. It's only been a week. I'm like, I'll pay the first month's
right. Come on, man. Just pay them everything. Right. So they come up with whatever 165. I
forget the number. So I say, okay, okay, okay. So he hangs up the phone. He says, great, you
got to go get a cashier check. I remember they wanted me to go into the bank,
like a Washington Mutual Branch and bring them. I said, I'm not going into Washington. That's
not happening. Right. So I said, I'll get a cashier check, bring it to you. He goes, okay.
They write up an agreement where they prompt, they, they agree that it's a, it's not a criminal
matter. It's a creative financing error and that it's a civil matter and that it's being
taken care of. So they felt the paperwork. No big deal. They faxed it back and forth. I sign it.
I remember the lawyer. This is the funny part about this is that the two lawyers are sitting
there and he says, okay, well, what are we going to do about, about the other mortgages? And I go,
what do you mean? He's Gary, you've got multiple mortgages on all these properties. I went,
right? Right. And he said, well, this is an issue is what if these other lenders find out
about the mortgages? And I went, well, I leave town. And he goes, and he said, no, they laugh.
They go, I go, Gary, that's not going to work. They've got your date of birth. They have your
social security number. They're going to find you. And I go, you're assuming I'm Gary Sullivan.
And the look on their faces was just like, yeah, they didn't even think of that.
Right. And he goes, well, we'll, we'll, we'll cross that bridge when it comes to that. That's
right. Let me get the check. I go get the check. I come back. I give him the check. And I remember
he said, okay, well, I need money for my fee. And I said, well, what's your fee? It's a couple
hours work. And he goes, I think $1,500 is good. And I said, okay, so I pull out, start counting
out cash. He goes, well, we typically, I don't take cash. I take a check. And I said, after what
you just heard, you take a check from me. Yeah. And he goes, I'll take cash. He pays them. That's
good. They're good. We're all happy. I keep pulling money out of the bank. Becky's happy.
Becky and I decide once we pull all the money out, because we're close to getting all the money
at this point. I've been pulling out money. We got $6,700 out of the bank. We still have a
chunk of other money. We've got, we've got a chunk of money. So, so we decided we're going to move
to Houston, Texas. So she's moved to Houston, Texas. She lives in Houston now, downtown Houston,
amazing building. And so she's in Texas and she is already in Texas. Yeah, she was in Texas.
So I go into the bank one day. I go into Wachovia. I walk into Wachovia as Gary Sullivan.
Typically, when I walked into a place, I only had information on me that was specific to that
person. Right. So you don't get it mixed up. Right. Happened to have a, I happened to have
a Michael Eckert driver's license in my, my wallet. I walk in. I go up to the teller.
I say, I need nine grand in cash. She goes, okay. She turns around. She goes, I got to get
authorization for that. I said, no problem. She walks in the back.
Five minutes go by. I'm standing there. The whole place is crowded. Next thing I know,
boom, somebody pulls my hand behind my back, pulls the other hand behind my back. I turn
around. There are these massive, massive sheriff's deputies. I mean, I'm, I'm five, six, I'm five,
seven with a good pair of shoes. I mean, these guys are huge. So I'm like, Hey, they go, hey,
they said, hey, they grabbed my drop, my ID. And they said, you're being detained.
Mr. Sullivan, you're being detained. Come with us. They put the cuffs on me. They walk me in the back.
Everybody's staring. They sit me down in the manager's office. I'm sitting there.
And I said, well, what's this about? And they go, all we know is to detain you.
Five minutes later, a detective shows up. They were waiting for the detective. I heard detective.
I thought, okay, FBI, because I knew the FBI was already looking for me. And by this point,
when I left Atlanta, the Secret Service had gotten involved. And the Secret Service had placed me
on the Secret Service's most wanted list. Because the Secret Service deals with
aggravated, with identity theft, with anything to do with the, with the infrastructure of
currency or money of any kind, which is a lot of banking. They basically took over a massive
amount of the FBI. Once the FBI kind of shifted towards terrorism, they took over a massive amount
of that. So, so, you know, I know they're looking. And so anyway, I go back. I'm waiting. I'm handcuffed.
The detective walks in, I'm thinking FBI, Secret Service. They walk in, the guy says,
he walks in, and he says, Hey, Mr. Sullivan. You know, I'm whatever his name was, you know,
Richard, I'm John Richards, you know, Detective Richards. And I say, okay. And he says, we were,
you know, we were contacted by Wachovia's, the head of Wachovia's fraud department.
We understand that you've got multiple loans on a piece of property that you borrowed money from.
One of the loans you took out was from Wachovia. And you've got, you have, he says, you've got
three loans on one piece of property. I actually had six loans on that piece of property. So,
I know they've only caught three. Yeah. So, I looked up and I'm, and I go, I remember, I said,
is that illegal? And he went, you know, I don't know. And I remember right then thinking, I'm
walking out of here. Yeah. I'm good. All I've got to do is convince this guy, I can get out of here.
And he goes, you're not under arrest. I go, I'm not. I feel like I'm under arrest. I show him
the cuffs. He goes, oh yeah. Can you take those off him? So, they take, take the cuffs off.
And I said, what's going on? He goes, I don't know. Let's get Wachovia's head of security on
the phone. They get him on the phone. He started saying, this guy is running a shotgunning scam.
He's borrowing so many mortgages on the house we couldn't catch it in time. And he's removing
all the money in cash. And he said, you're removing all the money in cash. I said, I am removing any
cash. And he said, why? And I said, well, because I work for a day labor company and I had,
I pull out my, I have a, I have a little business card, day labor. It says I'm a site manager,
Gary Sullivan, site manager, labor on demand. And I said, it's, what happens is I said, we,
we cut these guys checks and they have to go cash the checks and they charge them like 10%.
So I usually just cash their checks for them. I said, I mean, I don't know if that's illegal.
And he was, no, that's, that's nice. I, that's fine. I'm like, okay. So the guy says, listen,
he this, he that he's, he's got multiple first mortgages. And I went, okay, well,
I read every one of the mortgages I took out, none of them said first mortgage, because it's
actually the placement of the mortgage that determines whether it's a first, second, or third
mortgage and not, it doesn't really say anything on the mortgage. So he's like, he's like, you know,
oh, that's, all right. So he's, he's, I'm unraveling his little thing that he's trying to convince him.
And I'm saying, no, no, I read the things that didn't say it. Why didn't he take them all out
from the same bank? I said, well, you know, I don't know. I came to Wachovia. I know Wachovia
knows they're in first position. So I said, I borrowed a first mortgage from Wachovia. I told
them that I needed like half a million dollars. So the, the loan officer at Wachovia had a friend
at, and I go, shoot, what was the name? What's the name of the other lender? And he goes, he,
and he tells me, he's like, Oh, SunTrust. I'm like, right, SunTrust. And they gave me a second
mortgage. Well, the girl at SunTrust said she could give me additional money for a second and
for a, for a home equity line of credit. This guy, that's not a home equity line of credit.
He's lying. He's, and I'm like, look, this is what happened. Then I signed that and
they gave me the money and I don't understand. What did I do wrong? And he's like,
yeah, I'm not sure what the, what he did wrong. I mean, it sounds to me, I go, sounds to me like
they got a problem at the bank or loan officers didn't do anything wrong. And so he's screaming.
And then he goes, look at his ID, look at his ID. And he goes, okay, he looks at the, I only had
an ID, not a driver's license, because I had a vehicle that was in the name of Michael Eckert.
So I didn't need a driver's license. And he goes, yeah. He goes, it starts with zero, zero, zero.
He goes, no, no, our, our, our ID start with zero, zero, zero. He goes, it's a fake ID. He goes,
no, I ran him through NCIC. It's his real ID. He is Gary Sullivan. And I went, oh, now I'm not
Gary Sullivan. I go, come on, man, what are we doing here? What are we doing? And he goes,
so you already got that guy. At that point, you already know you're like your goal to get out
here. Oh, the two sheriffs are still standing there. The two deputies are still there. Yeah.
So he goes, ah, he's screaming and hollering. And he's, and he's telling him to calm down. I go,
look, man, I think they got a problem at the bank. I wouldn't know how to do this. I said,
I work for a labor company where I'm going to trick the bank out of half a million dollars.
Come on. I own two houses here in the area. And he goes, that's right. Yeah, he owns two houses.
Yeah. So he goes, look, I don't even know if he's committed to crime yet. I'm going to bring him
downtown. We're going to fill out a police report and I'm going to see what the district attorney
says. He hangs up on the guy. Guy's furious. Yeah. I get up to leave. And he says, Gary,
this is a South Carolina ID. Do you have a driver's license? And I went, I do, but it's in Nevada.
I don't know if Gary Sullivan has one in Nevada or no clue. He's a homeless, homeless guy.
You know, prostitute. Yeah. Yeah, right. So this, so the, the, the given reach around behind
seven. Yeah. So the detective says, he, he goes, oh, that's right. He goes, you're from, I forgot,
you're from Las Vegas. And I write then, remember that he had said, he pulled me through NCIC.
So he knows Gary Sullivan's been arrested twice for prostitution. Oh, shit. So I thought, no,
I looked over at the deputies and these guys are glancing at each other, smiling. And I thought,
son of a bitch. Don't think you're a male prostitute. He was a male prostitute a few years ago. And I
went, fuck. And the guy goes, one of the cops grabs the ID and says, I'll check to see if he's
got a driver's license. He walks off, he comes back and he says, yeah, he's got a valid driver's
license in Nevada. And the deputy goes, he goes, checks out. He goes, everything's good. It's
valid. He goes, yeah, yes, it's valid. He's well, it says he's five foot 10. And they all look at me
and I go, well, fellas with a good pair of shoes. And they go, ha, ha, ha. Gary, follow us back to
the police station. So I'm driving back to the police station with the cruiser behind me and the
deputies car in the front of me. My phone rings and it's Becky. And I go, hey, what's going on?
And she says, oh my God, my, I've got like 40 missed calls. By the way. Oh my God, what are you
doing? What are you doing? And I said, okay, I am not going to believe this. I said, I just got
detained. I'm being driven back to the police station. I have to fill out a police report.
And I explain what happens. And she goes, get on the interstate, get out of there. I said,
I can't. There's a cop behind me. I can't. I got to play this out. I said, listen,
five minutes ago I was in handcuffs. I can do this. I can get out of this. I'm good.
She says, you don't understand your number one on the secret services most wanted list. They just
raised you to the number one. He says, you got to get out. I said, look, I can't. I can't. I said,
look, the worst case scenario is this. I'll get arrested. You get me a lawyer. Get me out. She
goes, I'm not getting you out on bond. I'm not getting you a lawyer. She goes, I'm not risking
everything I have to try and get you out of jail. She's got all the money. Oh, so I'm going.
So well, I guess I better not get arrested. Yeah. So I hang up the phone. I go in there.
I fill out the police report. I wait. He won't let me wait in his cube. He says,
can you wait in the hallway? I got to go talk to the, to the, um, my whatever, Lieutenant,
whatever. Right. I wait in the hallway. In the hallway, there's all of these posters.
There's one color poster, which is my secret services most wanted poster.
A picture of you, a picture of me. Now keep in mind, I've had plastic with their real name on it.
Oh, Matt Cox. Yeah. Now keep in mind, I've had plastic surgery by this point. I've had liposuction.
I had a nose job. I have what's called a mini facelift. I got, um, porcelain veneers. Um,
I had, uh, two hair graphs, you know, this isn't my real hair. Really? Yeah. It's from the back
of my head. Um, it's my hair. I paid for it. You know, you did all this because I did not want to
go to prison. Okay. So you wanted to alter your, yeah, on purpose to avoid being caught.
Yeah. Absolutely. Right. Okay. I'm not sure what else I would like. I don't know. I don't know if you
mean vanity. Maybe. Yeah. Maybe you just did because definitely vanity too. I mean, I'm,
yeah, absolutely. I mean, I'm a straight narcissist. So I gotta, you know, there was,
there was room for improvement. Right. So if I could have made myself taller,
right? You would have paid for that too. Right. And you can, but can you really? Oh,
yeah. You can get it. There's like two different ways. One, they extend your legs. They actually
break your legs and then they have a thing where they actually extend the bone and the bone grows
together. So it's a slow process. Yeah. So the other one is they take like a piece of coral
and they actually cut it and they slip the coral in. Either way, you're immobile for several
months. Yeah. Okay. My problem was that Becky was. Did you actually look into doing that?
Yeah. Really? Becky, well, listen, I'm all in. Yeah. Yeah. If I'm doing something, I'm all in.
So Becky was a lunatic. She's bipolar. She wouldn't take her, her, what was the medication
they wanted her to take? Like she'd take it for like a month, get better, and then she'd get off
of it. And then she'd be like a lunatic. She'd have the police called on me twice, like woke me
up in the middle of the night screaming and the police come and I laughed and the cops show up
and I'm not there. And they're like, look, if somebody was, if two people are here, somebody's
got to go to jail. Right. So I'm like, this, she's, she's going to get me arrested. It's happened
twice. So I can't have her watch me for three months while I'm laying in bed immobile. That's
insane. Who knows what she'd do to me. Yeah, that ain't going to work. So at this point, we don't,
we're not even together anymore. I got in her, we both have two separate apartments in, in Charlotte.
She lives in a condo and I live in another condo both in downtown Charlotte. So I'm terrified of
her. She's got all the money because she's afraid I'm going to leave her, which I would have. Yeah.
I mean, there was multiple times I tried to leave. She'd call me up and beg and plead, come back,
come back, come back, please. I'm sorry. I messed up. I messed up. I'll just take the medication.
I'm going to, I'm going to be better. I'm sorry. I love you. Please don't do this. I can't do this
without you. Okay, fine. I'll turn around. I come back. So at this point, she's now, I, I go in
there. I'm in the police station. She's not, she's telling me she's not going to pick me up if I get
arrested. The detective goes and talks to the lieutenant. He comes back. What about your poster
on the wall? It was on the wall, but it's among a bunch of, but I mean, literally imagine this.
As I look over and I see it, he walks up behind me and puts his hand on my shoulder. He goes,
you ready to go? I'm like, oh my God. So ready to go. So we walk off. We get in the elevator.
We get downtown. I don't know if you've ever been a police station, but you know, like I couldn't
have left. Like to get, they have like a code in the elevator to get down, to get up. I mean,
there's all these doors. You're not leaving. You're not getting in and you're not leaving.
So I'm just, I'm done. They were behind me. They escorted me there. I mean,
they got to let you out. Right. A lot of people are like, why didn't you just take off it and what?
They're behind me. I'm not, you know, I'm not a race car driver. I can't outrun the police. I
can't outrun, you know, the radio or the helicopter. I have to go to the bank. Right. And then they're
like, well, when he walked off, why didn't you leave? It's a dungeon. I can't get out. I'm not
an escape artist. So he walks me out and he lets me leave. I get in the car. I go to leave. I pick
up the phone. She's been calling. Right. Pick up the phone. And she's first thing she says is,
I go, I pick up the phone. And listen, I lay in a U. I just start screaming at her. She's like,
I was on my way. I'm putting everything in the car right now. I'm coming to get you. I'm like,
lying. Yeah. So anyway, I remember, she's like, okay, okay, you're going great. Get on the interstate
guy. I said, no, no, I'm going to go to a couple more banks. What? Straight from the police station.
Straight from the police station. I go to two more banks. I get out more money. The third bank.
How much money? Not much. 9,000. Okay. You know, 8,000. Yeah. Next when I walk into, I see the
person in the spot and they look at me and they like immediately go for the phone and I realize,
okay, no, turn around. I get in my car. I leave one of the girls runs out and watches my car
as I leave. Just like right now in the tag. Oh, something was so, there was more to it
than I did. It's getting hot. Yeah. I don't know. So I leave, go back to Charlotte, pack up all my
stuff in a U-Haul van, leave my car in the parking garage and I drive all the way to Houston.
I get to Houston. Becky and I get into this massive fight. Argument. Just say an argument.
And it started because I said, look, I mean, I got there. I was like, you know, we, I said, look,
I, I said, I need to check out some real estate, figure out where I'm going to live. Like, oh,
you can't stand the idea of living with me. Can you? You can't stay with me for even a few weeks.
I'm just discussing. You can't. I'm like, what the hell is going on? What are you doing?
She's screaming and hollering. Then I, this is in the car. I remember getting the elevator. We're
going up. There's some, some girl in the elevator that was like amazing. You know, you've ever been
with your girlfriend and you're like, you see some chicken. You're like, oh, guys, look away.
Becky's staring at me here. You know, you can feel her staring at you. Yeah,
she's staring at you. The girls over here piercing you. And I'm just like, this is so bad. She's
already borderline insane. Right. She's going to snap. Right. The elevator door opens. I walk out
and I remember she goes, oh, you just love to fuck that skank, wouldn't you? And I remember thinking,
she's probably a very nice girl. What are you doing? You know, you know, the girl's like, did
she say skank? Yeah. So we go in. We get into this huge argument in, in her apartment and I say,
look, I'm just, I'm done. I'm leaving. And I said, we're splitting up the money. And she
goes, we're not splitting the money. She says, I'm keeping the money. I don't know what it was,
six or $700,000. And she's like, we're keeping, I'm keeping the money. And I went, no, no,
no, we're splitting it. I'm leaving. And I remember she said, no, she goes, no, no, she said,
you can go somewhere else and commit another, do another con. I'm stuck. I can't do what you're
doing. And so I went, okay, well, what do you think's fair? And she's, I think $10,000 is fair.
I go, $10,000. What am I going to do with $10,000? I can't get an apartment. I can't do all the
things I need to do. What am I going to do? I'm going to go get a job. What am I going to do?
I'm going to bust tables. Come on. Let's be reasonable. So we start arguing back and forth,
back and forth. Finally, she says $100,000. So I go, okay, count out $100,000. She gives me $100,000.
And I leave. And in the American Greed episode, they say that she like went in the shower.
Right. And I left your phone on the bed or something.
I did leave my phone. I left my phone because every time I tried to leave her before,
she would call me and guilt me into coming back. And this time I remember thinking, no, no,
yep, she can't guilt me now. I'm done. It's over. Take the $100,000. I leave. And the only reason
was because she was saying she's not going to pick me up. Yeah. So you weren't going to pick me up.
We're done. Yeah, you already know you can't trust her. I can't. Yeah. Can't count on her.
So we're done. So I leave. How much money you leave her with?
Probably $500, $600,000 she probably had. So she's good. Yeah, she's straight for a while.
She wouldn't got a job or did whatever she could be okay for. She could buy a house. She gets
longer that money. So anyway, we leave. Or I leave. I get in my car. I drive. And on my way,
this was another huge mistake of mine. On my way, I stop into like, I drive through like
Baton Rouge or something. And I get a track phone. And I call home. I call a few people.
And I had everyone. So I would do that when I was somewhere else I'd call,
just to check out my mom, my dad, you know, so I call and I call a friend of mine. And she says,
look, call the FBI agent, see if you can turn yourself in. At this point, I'm pretty strong.
I'm pretty exhausted. I've had a bad couple of days. So I'm, I'm thinking, okay, so I call the FBI
agent. His name was Candice Calderon. Candice is like a law enforcement zealot. And really,
really did not like me. Just despised me. I don't know why everybody else was very pleasant.
So very professional. Candice was just vicious to me. And so I remember I called her and I said,
hey, my name's Matt Cox. I understand you wanted me to call you. And she's like, oh my god,
yeah, Mr. Cox, we've been looking for you. I said, yeah, I understand that. She said,
yeah, I need you to turn yourself in. I said, no, I'm not going to do that. And she said, well,
let's talk about this. And she said, I go, well, what am I going to get? How much time? And she
said, well, I mean, that's not really how it works. You turn yourself in, then we determine,
we take that into consideration. I said, yeah, I'm not. Yeah, right. That's not going to happen.
I'm not doing that. And she goes, well, I can talk to US Attorney and see if he can recommend
something. And okay. So she, so she's like, you do understand, we're going to catch you.
And I go, I'm not sure how she's well, she's well, I mean, let's face it, she's eventually,
you'll get pulled over by the police. I said, I've been pulled over by the police. She says,
well, I mean, you'll go to get a ticket, you'll try and hand them a driver's license. I said,
I've handed him driver's license. As a matter of fact, I've gotten like four tickets
in different people's names. I actually went to traffic school as another guy recently. I got
like three tickets in his name. He was going to lose his license. I had a car in his name. I had
to go. Jesus. So plus it was eight hours. I didn't have to spend with Becky. So,
so I, you know, I'm sorry, I'm telling her this. And I, and she's like, you know, oh,
you know, you're so cocky. She said, you think you're not going to get away, you know, eventually
you'll get caught. You'll get, you'll, you'll, she said, you'll go home to see somebody,
somebody will recognize you. You'll get pulled over. You'll, somebody, something will happen.
I said, listen, nobody's going to recognize me. He said, I've had multiple plastic surgeries.
I mean, you know, and if you actually look at the pictures of me, I mean, I look vastly different.
They actually, anyway, that's another story. And the point is, is I'm like, look, nobody's
going to recognize me. I got multiple driver's licenses. I've got passports in other people's
name. I've been in and out of the country. I said, and there's nobody in Tampa that I want to see.
So unless we work something out, you're never going to have this conversation with me in,
in person. And so she says, okay, she calms down. And I remember she said,
what did she say? She kept calling me sweetie, listen, sweetie, listen, sweetie.
And she goes, I remember she said, you don't realize how close we are to catching you.
She's, we're 90% sure of where you're at. I go, yeah, well only a hundred percent counts,
sweetie. And she was just like, oh, she hated me. See, she was cocky and I was cocky. She was,
you know, and I shouldn't have been like, I shouldn't have, you know,
just gotten down there and started being snied back to, but she was so arrogant,
right? You know, and arrogant people hate arrogant people. I can't, you know, so I,
I really her, her condescension was just like, so we go back and forth, back and forth.
By the way, when I was eventually sentenced, this is brought up in front of the judge.
And instead of me calling to turn myself in and try and figure out how to turn myself in and get a,
try and work out a deal, it turned into Mr. Cox constantly called the FBI and mocked them.
Just to fuck with them.
What are you talking about? I called a couple times. So anyway, I hang up the phone and when she
says, she goes, okay, I'll call you back. I will wait a minute. I'll call you back. She was,
just leave your phone on. I go, no, I said, cause I'm gonna shut my phone off. She goes,
just leave your phone on. I went, I said, no, you're probably tracking this phone right now.
You're trying to triangulate it or something. And she goes, she goes, oh, get over yourself.
She goes, you're not that important. And I remember thinking, yeah, she's right. Who do I
think I'm nobody? They're not trying to track the phone. That's just stupid. Come to find out when
I later ordered the Freedom of Information Act, they were tracking the phone out of Baton Rouge,
and they'd actually sent two us marshals to the, to the seven 11 where I'd bought the phone
where I was sitting talking to her on the phone. So it just so happens that I hung up the phone
and I turned it off and told her I called back in a couple of hours and I got up and I got my
vehicle and started driving. So I was driving when I called her back a few hours later and I called
and she said, look, I talked to Robert Mazakowski, which is the U. S. Attorney here in Florida in
Tampa. She says, I can get you seven years, seven years. And I thought that's seven years. And she
doesn't even know about the other stuff. And I'd already told her, look, there's other stuff you
don't know about shoes. Yeah. But if you come in first and you tell us about it, we don't charge
you. We'll take it into consideration. So I thought, if I tell her about the money and this
and that, I might be okay. Anyway, I was like, I'm not doing seven years. And she says, look,
we can maybe work something out. And I go, okay, well, what about in Atlanta? What about for Atlanta?
And she's like, well, you need to turn yourself into Tampa. So we start going back and forth,
back and forth. And eventually, like, what about the Secret Service? And she's like, look,
you need to turn yourself into the FBI in Tampa, just come back to Tampa. And I went,
well, yeah, but I'm closer to Atlanta. Maybe I should just turn myself in Atlanta.
And eventually it comes out that I'm like, look, I've mentioned Atlanta several times,
you won't even address it. Did you talk to the U.S. Attorney in Atlanta? And she goes,
finally, she says, no, I didn't talk to the U.S. Attorney Atlanta, I can only speak for Tampa.
I go, so the seven years is only for Tampa. And she goes, right. Yes. I said, oh, yeah,
we're done. We're done. I wouldn't believe you if you told me water was wet. It's over. And I just
chucked the phone out the window, kept on going. I go all the way back. I have to stay at a hotel,
whatever. I end up going back to Charlotte to get my car. I don't have a vehicle. I'm driving
a rider truck. Wow. So I dropped the rider truck. We'd emptied it, by the way. We'd emptied it.
No, now, now Becky has all my furniture. She's got like $50,000 with the furniture
and all the money. Yeah. So I've got like my clothes and a hundred grand, which is not a
bad start. I admit it. You know, and I have a certain skill set. Yeah, definitely. I'm gonna
be okay. But I have no, my ID, like I have an ID that's questionable because she knows for all.
I know she's calling up saying, Hey, this guy is traveling on this side. I don't know. So I can't,
everything's tainted. So I go back to Charlotte. I drop off the rider truck. I take a taxi back to
the apartment where my car's parked. And I remember thinking I'd gotten several cell phones on my
cell phone from the detective to Michael Eckert. So he'd put together that Gary Sullivan and Michael
Eckert were the same person. So I know they've probably tracked me back to Charlotte. So I go
there. I see my car. I look around and I remember thinking if the car is okay, they haven't been
here. They're not here. So I get the car. I drive down the parking garage. I pull out. I go across
the street from the apartment complex, from the condo, whatever place that I'm staying in downtown
Charlotte. And I go to Starbucks. I need a Starbucks. Pull my car up to Starbucks. I've got a
infinity, the sports car, the two-door sports car infinity, super, you know, G something. So brand
new. So I pull up, I get out, I go into the Starbucks. I'm standing there. I'm waiting. And I see two
people from the, from the leasing office. And they're giving me weird looks. And it was like the
sixth, fifth or sixth. And I remember thinking my rent's due on the first, but I hadn't paid it
because I'm leaving. And I'm looking at them. They're really whispering to each other. There's
something going on. There's a real issue between the two of them. But I'm not thinking anything.
I just picked up my car. If they were, if anybody had tracked me back here, I'm good.
So I missed them. So finally one of the people leaves. The woman, the female leasing agent walks
out the back. They call this guy's order. He gets the order. He's got in his little styrofoam tray.
I get my order. I walk outside. He follows me. I get in my car. What I didn't know at the time
was that the female leasing agent had gone across the street and gotten the U.S. Marshals who were
currently interviewing people at the apartment complex. They are now running back to the Starbucks.
So I get in my car. And when I get in my car, the guy is sitting there and he starts screaming.
He's right here. He's right here. And I look in the rear view mirror and the Marshals are running
by our on foot running on foot running. I had already started the car. So I just hit the gas and
I just drive off. And they're standing in the middle of the street and they call. I actually have
a freedom of information act that says that they had called and put out a Bolo for, for, you know,
for what's a for you in your car. Be on the lookout for. Okay. And the name of the tag number
of the vehicle. Yeah. So I went straight to a homeless facility, not even half a mile away.
I pull over. I have no, I'm not terrified, but I had, I've got to get some IDs and I saw a few
guys standing outside. So I get out of the car. I walk straight over. Listen, it's not easy to find
like a 35 year old, 36 year old white guy who's homeless. If he was African American, fine. They're
everywhere. If it was 50, 50 year old white guy, 60 year old white guy, you could find them. But
we're talking about a 35 year old guy. So I see these three guys and I'm like, Oh my gosh, I got
to pull over and pull over, walk out. Hey, my name is John. I'm Salvation Army. I'm doing a survey.
I take the survey. I ended up getting the several IDs. Gary, I think Walter Holcomb,
one of them was a guy named Joseph Marion Carter Jr. And I went by Carter. I didn't want to go by
Joseph. I'd be Joe. I don't want to be a Joe. I'm not a Joe. Joe's a kind of guy that's kind of a
tough guy. He could, you know, you can puke in his car. He's cool. He drinks with you. You know what I'm
saying? I'm not Joe. I'm not Joe. I don't want to be, I don't want to be Marion. I'm going to
be picked on. I can't, I don't want to be a junior. So I go with Carter. So I go with Carter. I
immediately drive to Nashville, walk into Nashville, go to Nashville, go to Green Hills,
happen to see a guy. I go immediately get a cell phone and I get a business card made for
manufactured funding group, which is who I said I work for. Drive through Green Hills, see a guy
putting a sign in the front yard of a house, which is actually a duplex. Green Hills is a really nice
area in Nashville. See him. I get out, I walk over and I say, hey, I'm new to the area. I'm looking
for a place to stay. And he goes, okay. And I walk in the place. I come back and he says, great. And
I say, Hey, here's my business card. I don't really have a reference right now. Is there any way I can
give you double the security deposit? I don't really have any credit. I don't have any idea what
this guy Carter's got. I still have to go get a kid's social security number issued. So he said,
so the guy looks at me, I remember, he looked at me, he goes, you look like an honest guy.
And I remember thinking, I'm going to do well. Do I really? You dumb motherfucker. I am going to do
well here. So he said, give me its first month security, sign this. No problem. By the end of
the day, I got my electric water by like the next day they turn the electric water on. I'm good.
I've ordered furniture. I then drive. I then within a week, I I've got a driver's license.
I ordered all of Carter's information. I get all the information. I get a driver's license. I drive
the car back to Charlotte. I leave it in long term. Same car. Same car all the way. Not worried
about getting pulled over in that car. Terrified. Why don't you get rid of it? I don't want them to
find it in Nashville. Okay. So I drive it all the way back, park, long term, get on a plane, fly
back, go immediately buy a new car. No credit. Convince them to give me a new car, 20% down,
get a new car, go back, driver's license, passport, completely set up within a month or two.
I'm buying houses. Again, all over again. I borrowed 3.5 million in Nashville. Wow. I meet
this girl named Amanda. She's amazing. Anyway, she was like 25. At this point, I'm 26. No,
she's 24. I'm 26. No, I'm sorry. What am I saying? She's 24 and I was 36. Okay. I turned 37. We dated
for about a year. We traveled all over the place. We went to, gosh, we went to Italy. We went to
Croatia. So you're doing this all over again. You're making money. Yeah. I have to have like
$100,000. I'm broke. Now, okay. So I pull out a bunch more money. I meet Amanda. Amanda's amazing
and we're doing great and I remember we went to Venice and it had been about a year and
by this point, Becky's been arrested. Oh, shit. Becky is a gangster, by the way.
I was just about to ask what happened to Becky. Becky gets grabbed. What happens with Becky is
she ends up confiding in a family member where she's the general vicinity of where she's at
and that she's currently in beauty school. So her family member calls the Secret Service, says
she's in a beauty school in this city. They think she's wanted to. Yeah. Still. Yeah. But her family
member, it wasn't like she was malicious. She just wanted her back. Yeah. So they come in,
guns drawn, the whole thing on her. Get on the ground. Get on the ground. The Secret Service
agent told me the whole time, from the moment they handcuffed her to the moment they got her
all the way back, she bitched and moaned the whole time saying, I don't, my name is Rebecca
Sue Hickey. I don't know who Rebecca Halk is. You guys made a mistake. You're going to lose your
job. You've embarrassed me. I'm going to sue you. I'm going to. So she just played that card the
whole time? Oh, screaming the whole, he said all the way up to the point when they put her hand
down on like the scanner and she goes, okay, all right. It's me. I'm Rebecca Halk. What do you
want to know? Holy shit. And I remember thinking, and he was like, it was like an hour. They said,
I mean, she was, they're like, it's you. We know it's you. So what did she tell him when she got
caught? The first thing they said is, where's Matt Cox? And she said, I have no clue. He left me
like a year ago. And so they're like, damn, she didn't know where I am. Yeah. So at this point,
I'm, you know, I'm borrowing money. At this point, what's happened is
Amanda and I are one day sitting in the dentist's office and she picks up a
a Bloomberg business week and keep in mind the St. Petersburg Times, which is now the Tampa Bay
Times. There's a guy, there's a guy like Testerman, Jeff Testerman. Okay. Yeah. They did 30,
roughly 35 articles on me. Tampa Tribune did articles. The Chicago Tribune did them.
They did a whole series called The Fugitive, the Atlanta Journal Constitution. The, I mean,
it just, it just goes, you know, so it's, it's everywhere at this point. Datelines putting
together a segment. I was in Fortune magazine, did a whole segment on Becky and her take of
the whole womanizer, manipulator, you know, that whole thing, the, the forcing boob jobs,
forcing her to leave her son, you know, just, are you serious? So, you know, a bad guy, you know.
So anyway, it's, uh, so I'm with Amanda and we had, I remember we were going through the
Mediterranean. We were on, uh, took a cruise. So it sounds rough, doesn't it? It sounds like
a lot of rough life. I remember looking over at Amanda, my, at this point, she's like 25. I'm
like 37. She knows what you're doing with your whole deal. She knows. Yeah. And I look over at her.
She's 25 bathing suit. We're on a, on a European cruise ship going through the Mediterranean.
You're living a good life. And I'm like, this, this is so worth it. Yeah. Wow. It wasn't, by the way,
it wasn't worth the prison term. But I remember thinking this is one of those moments. Yeah.
This is amazing. People are calling me, you know, Mr. Carter. Yeah. I'm walking through passport.
So you smell the roses. Yeah. I'm walking, well, I'm walking through passport control.
Boom. Hi, Mr. Carter. Are you giving them a passport? I mean, it's, it's like James Bond.
You feel like James Bond when you walk into, when you walk into Bank of America and you give them
a bunch of false documents and they're calling you Mr. Black and they give you a check for 250,000
and then thank you for ripping them off. You walk out like, this is, this is better than the money.
Yeah. Forget some money. It's a thrill, right?
Living in a movie. Yeah. It's ridiculous. It really is. And, you know, right up until that
sentencing. Yeah. So anyway, what happens is Amanda and I start seeing a girl, Amanda lives with me.
Yeah. We start seeing a girl. I dated this girl like one time. And Amanda, you know, you're,
you're with a girl and, you know, eventually they start saying you've ever been interested in
and being with two women and I'm, I'm like, of course, like, you know, hell yeah. I'm like,
no, I would never do that. I, you know, have you ever done that? I'm like, yes, once it's bumpy
and awkward. It's just, it's just, it's not my thing. And she's like, really? I'm like, no,
of course, of course. Yes. Yeah. And she's like, would you be interested? I'm like, absolutely,
of course. You know, I'm like, actually, I said, no, no, baby, but I'll do it for you out of love
for you. Yeah. I'm not interested. Yeah. But I'll do it for you. So anyway, we start seeing this girl.
She comes over every, every once in a while. And what ends up happening is Amanda finds out that
date line's coming out. Date line's going to do a one hour special. And now I realize I just can't
stay here anymore. You know, I like the United States. I didn't really want to leave the United
States because I know, I knew how to, basically, I knew how to run a scam in the United States.
I don't really know what it's going to be like in another country, but I know I can't stay here.
So we've got a few million. We've got, unfortunately, we have a million or so,
at least in real estate. So the money's all over the place, but we've got some money.
So we decide, look, we're going to get a couple, two, three million dollars out, and then I'll
take off. I've got a month or so. I've got the real estate. I satisfy all the loans on everything I
have. We start, I start borrowing. We start having people cash, get cash for us. One of the things
was this, the girl, she ends up getting, Amanda ends up asking her to cash them checks. I don't know
that that's what sparked the conversation, but somehow or another, Amanda ends up telling her
why. She's like, you know what I'm saying? He's leaving. He's going to Australia. We've already
done the research on Australia. At that time, you could become a permanent resident alien.
You didn't have to actually get fingerprints or anything. You could go there. You get a driver's
license. You get a lot, even though you can't work there, but you can open a business. So
you have to show up with like $200,000. Well, I'm showing up with millions. So I'm good.
So we decide I'm going to go. Amanda's going to come with me. And while we're pulling out the cash,
it ends up that this girl contacts the secret service and negotiates a reward for turning me
in. And she turns me in. And one day I'm coming back to the apartment. We'd had a robbery, like a
home invasion, a couple nights beforehand. So I pull up, I get out of the car. About the same time,
I'm on the phone with Amanda. Amanda tells me, oh my God, I think something went wrong. I'm like,
what do you mean? She says, I just got a phone call from this other girl. Her name was Trina.
From Trina. And she's asking me where I am. She's asking me a bunch of questions. She asked
if I was at the office, like, didn't want her to go to the house. And she was, I think she may
have done something. I'm like, done what? She didn't know anything. And then Amanda's like, I think I
fucked up. And so I'm like, what do you mean you fucked? And I'm getting out of the car and
everything. And, you know, realizing she's not really telling me, but I'm realizing something's
wrong. And that's the Secret Service show up and guns and get on the ground, get on the ground.
And I just remember blanking out, like, I didn't even get on the ground. I'm just like,
just there. You just weren't expecting it then. But you knew that was it. You knew that was the
end. Oh, yeah. Well, you know, then I lay down. They like, he was getting on the ground. The guy
gets all the way up to me with the gun. He's like, and that's the first like, there's so many people
yelling. I just kind of like blank. I remember he goes, he comes right up to me, he goes,
get on the ground. And I was like, Oh, so I get on the ground. They cuffed me, picks me up.
They hold up the poster and they're like, sad him. He's like, it's not him. He's like, no, it's him.
It's him. It's him. So they kind of go, okay, it's him. He was, yeah, definitely him. It's definitely
him. So he's like, Hey, Mr. Cox, he said, we've been looking for you. You are Matt Cox, right? And I
went, Yeah, Matt Cox. Yeah. Unlike Becky, who went gangster all the way. Yeah. Okay. So
yeah. So, uh, wow, they drive me back and I eventually, I end up, I ended up doing dateline
because when I got caught, the government asked me to be interviewed by dateline. So I was interviewed
by dateline and, you know, they started off saying I'd stolen 26 million and we argued for a while
until I got them down. And then eventually the PSI, which is your pre-sentence report,
they said that there was 9.5 million in loss. I argued about that. I got it down to 6 million.
And I ended up getting sentenced and I was sentenced. I thought I was going to get 12 years.
And instead, You took a plea for that or? I took what's called an open plea,
which means you get whatever the PSI says. Well, my lawyer looked at the PSI and she said,
well, we can figure it out. You do this, this, this, this, this. She's like, you're in between 12
to 14 years. Okay. I understand. So we go in thinking 12 to 14 years plus I'd done the interview
for dateline, which they said they were going to consider substantial assistance and they were
going to reduce my sentence. They were going to put in something called a 5K1 to reduce your
sentence based on this interview they asked me to do. And technically a 5K1 is for cooperation
against your code offense, but I don't have any code offense. Yeah. Becky's been caught. Everybody
else in Tampa has either cooperated and been sentenced or was not subject to be indicted or
they were going to indict them, but, but it had been so long. It hadn't happened. So I just did
the interview, you know, not that, not that I wouldn't have cooperated and didn't fully intend
to cooperate. I'm ready to cut anybody's head off to get out of this. Yeah. I'm no, I'm no gangster.
I mean, you got these guys that are like, I'm going to do the time. I did. Okay. Well, you do
that, bro. But I'm not interested in having my son call another guy dad or have my mother visit me
in prison for the next 10 years because I want to act like I'm some kind of tough guy. I filled
out paperwork. Yeah. You know, that's the extent of my car. I filled out some paperwork. I borrowed
some money. There's no guns. I'm not, they're not getting into a shootout, but there's just nobody,
it's not possible. So I do the interview and they said they'd reduce my sentence for it. Well,
I get in there. I'm thinking 12 years. I get a PSI says 26 and then the night before my lawyer's
like, yeah, but this doesn't apply. This doesn't apply. Don't worry. We're going to talk in front
of the judge. We're going to get that knocked off. She seemed very confident. And plus you're going
to get your sentence reduced. Well, the night before the US attorney says, yeah, I'm not going
to reduce the sentence. It's not enough. So I go into sentencing and my lawyer argues in front
of the judge and judge just says, no, I disagree. I disagree with every enhancement. I disagree. I
think that applies. I disagree. I think that applies. I disagree. I think that applies. So every
time he says I disagree, that 12 years keeps going up to 26. He sentences me to 26. I get 26
here. And where is this in Florida? This was in Atlanta. All of my cases were consolidated
like in Atlanta, Tennessee, Atlanta, South Carolina, Tampa. We're all consolidated there.
Holy shit, dude. 26 years. It was a bad day. That was a bad day. Yeah. What is that day like
after you get sentenced for 26? I mean, talk about like if I really try to talk your way
out of it still somehow or after anything. Yeah. After the sentence you. I'm done. Yeah,
no way. You're give up at that point. Well, you know, you always hold out hope. You know,
doesn't it? Like if you can't psychologically, I couldn't sit down and say, oh, I'm just going
to do the time. Yeah. I've got, you know, I'm, look, you know, it doesn't sound good. I'm a
schemer. I'm always looking for an angle. Yeah. I'm always trying to figure out how to get around
something through something over something and I'm trying to figure out something. So I'm trying to
figure out how do I get out of this? Yeah. But that day when you get 26 years and you're walking
down, you know, that hallway, I mean. Right. You're trying to digest all that. It's a bad day.
I mean, talking about just being, just fundamentally just fractured to the core. I mean,
I tell you right now, I've never, you know, and based on like me talking about it, you know,
you wouldn't, you wouldn't, you know, it's a lot of laughing and joking and, you know,
and I'm very proud of myself. Good stories. Yeah. Good stories. You know, and it's the
narcissist in me that, you know, finds it comical and funny and I, it's very surface. You know, I
don't, like I said, I don't really think about the fact that the Browns had to go through hell
trying to fix their house. I told myself they're just going to fill out some paperwork and it's
going to be fine. You know, I don't think, I don't really focus on those things. I compartmentalize
them. But, you know, that day, I mean, just, just fractured my psyche to the point where
if I even think about it or focus on it at all, I mean, just, I'm just like an emotional mess.
And going, you know, doing all of those things and then going to prison and then I was sent to a
medium because I had so much time. Well, there's super maxes, which is like where terrorists go.
Nobody goes there. So there's pens and the pen at Coleman, they have two penitentiaries
and then they have a medium security prison and they have a low security prison and they have
a camp. It's a woman's camp though. So I went to the medium because I had so much time.
And I mean, I was nonviolent. The medium? No, no, I mean, I mean, your crime was a nonviolent.
Right. I was going to say, this is the first day when I show up. Yeah, what's that like? I get there
and as soon as I get there and I get my room, like I meet my celly and I always say sell it.
People hear that. They think it's that's what you're, you're the guy, your cellmate.
Yeah, you're celly. So I meet my celly, Mexican guy. Hey, man, what's going on?
Oh, you just get here? Oh, yeah. Okay. So I meet him and I'm walking downstairs and I remember
it all of a sudden they start screaming, lockdown, lockdown, lockdown. And my celly runs up to me
and he says, Hey, he said, sell, sell, you got to go in the cell now. We got to go in the cell.
I'm like, okay, what's going on? And we walk into the cell when we go in the cell, I'm like,
what happened? Whatever he said, oh, someone got stabbed on the yard. And I went, someone got stabbed
and he was in the, in the recreation yard, somebody got stabbed and I go, my God, someone died.
And he goes, no, no, no, he just got stabbed up a little bit. Stabbed up a little bit.
You can understand the different, the world you're in. You're like, stabbed up. I mean,
it's like it's jumbo shrimp, you know, it's just a complete contradiction. I'm like,
that's where you are now. Yeah. You don't talk to him. This is day one. Oh, this is day one. Listen,
I'm at, I'm at, I sit at it. I'm sitting in a, you know, you go into the cafeteria and you sit
down and guys are like, Oh, you just get here? Yeah. All right. That's if they talk at all.
Most people just don't even really talk. They're just, you got guys, I complain. I got, well,
I just got 26 years. And the one guy's like, yeah, I got 30 for selling, you know, a little bit of
crack. The other two guys are leaving in a pine box. They're like, yeah, life, life. So I can't
even bitch about my crime, about my time because this guy got 30 for selling for bringing a gun
to a, to a $10 crack deal and gets 30 years. Wow. These two guys are never leaving alive. And so
how do you even, how do you even complain after that? Wow. So yeah. So it took three years before
they said it was like a king for so long. You made so much money. You traveled the world and,
and it doesn't matter. And all of that, you get 26 years compared to a guy who just
bought some dope at the wrong place at the wrong time. And he got more time than you.
That's crazy to think of. Yeah. Well, what's not sure. What's crazy is that I remember watching
TV and we watched, we were watching the news one day. I'm sitting there watching and this guy
had drowned his like 11 year old niece. He was babysitting her and he drowned her on purpose.
And he pled guilty to 13 years. And I remember thinking he got half my sentence for drowning.
Killed somebody. Yeah. On purpose. I can't. Yeah. She was playing in a pool and she'd
splashed him and he told her to stop and he got pissed and he drowned her. And I remember just
thinking, wow. So, you know, you can debate the amount of time, you know, it's all relative. Some
people would say it wasn't enough. Some people would say it was too much. I feel like it was too
much, but then nobody's asking my opinion. Right. You know, I'm biased. So yeah, it was, it's a,
it was bad day. Bad day. Wow, man. Well, how long is this? How long was this? We did about two and
a half hours. Are you serious? Yeah. That's a good place to end it. I think for this one.
We got to trim 30 minutes off of that. No, that's good. We'll let it roll.
