You got a ring on your finger, Matt.
I know, man.
It's the first time I've seen you with a ring on your finger.
Congratulations.
When did you get married?
Yeah, congrats.
You're a married man.
Look at you.
Turned your life around.
Is that a one day of February?
Just before, two days before, two days?
13th?
No, 13th of February.
13th of February.
What's the field?
Valentine's Day.
I mean, I don't feel this.
Don't feel no different?
You know, Jess is like, you know, we're married.
And I'm like, I know.
What's it like?
I mean, are you guys, do the kids live with you guys or?
Jess's daughter lives with us.
She does?
Yeah.
Okay.
She's being homeschooled.
Did you sign a prenup?
No.
Why?
I don't have anything.
One of us have anything.
Yeah, but you got some potential out there.
I mean, maybe.
You're really making a life for yourself, Matt.
What's it like to be a guy who's on the run from the FBI for 10 years, did 26 years in
prison now?
Sets it up good.
Now look at you.
You're on TV.
You're the face of life lock.
You're the face of home mortgage lock.
You're on half of that.
What's the guy?
I see you on title lock.
I watch ESPN religiously.
You're on ESPN at least almost once a day.
I know.
My mom or Yosha go, Matt Cox is on TV.
You almost convinced her to buy title lock.
I almost had to talk her out of it.
And you're on Steve Bannon's show.
You're everywhere, Matt.
Yeah.
Yeah, Steve Bannon's probably one of my favorites because he doesn't say anything to me.
He doesn't even talk to you.
I mean, he does his whole spiel and then he's like, and he talks about home title lock
and how horrible identity theft and aggravated identity theft or title theft and all these
things.
He goes on and on and on.
And then he's like, and that's why we have Matt Cox here.
Mr. Cox, what can they do?
What can my watchers do to protect themselves?
And I go, well, they can buy home title locks, Steve.
And he's like, that's right.
Thank God for it.
And then he goes on and on.
It's like, I barely say anything.
I might say 10 lines in five minutes.
He didn't pop in.
And then it's over.
And that's it.
It was great.
I love it.
It's so fucking funny that last time you were on here, you mentioned that.
You're like, what's this guy's name?
Some guy that had something to do with Trump.
I go on his show and I promote home title lock.
I don't remember this guy's name.
Meanwhile, it's Steve fucking Bannon.
Steve Bannon.
Jesus Christ.
He's about to go to jail.
Is he?
Well, yeah.
He lost.
He's supposed to go to jail.
He's fighting it.
It's appealing it.
He's dragging that out.
How much time do you think Trump did?
That's what they said about Trump, too.
They said he's about to go to jail.
But look at that.
They've said that.
I was just thinking about that.
You know what's so funny?
It was for two years, it was like nothing but Russia.
About the Russia Gator, Russia investigation.
And then, okay, we don't talk about it.
And then it was, you know, this.
And then it was, you know, documents.
And then it was, and it's like, they've tried to get him for so long.
I mean, shouldn't you just quit at some point and say, yeah, it's not going to happen.
No, it's not going to happen.
And then there's all that stuff coming out right now about Jeffrey Epstein.
There's like five, five articles that came out in the last three days about Jeffrey
Epstein and all this new, these new documents that got released about his schedule, about
his calendar, meeting with the head of the CIA and all that shit.
Yeah.
But those were like, they were, he was supposed to meet with, like that was, he was on his
schedule, but they know he met with him.
They literally met many times.
But there was also, I guess there was time, they were supposed to meet again in the future,
but he died.
Okay.
But he had met with him.
He met with him and he was like the head of the State Department or something like that.
It was before Bill Burns was actually the head of the CIA.
Okay.
But he was.
Yeah.
This was when he was with Obama, right?
Yes.
Yes, exactly.
I think so.
And then he said, and then they said, when they asked him about it, he said, oh, it was
about reintegrating into society or investing money or something.
It was he had some, some benign, like out of all the people you were going to meet with.
Of course.
Yeah.
It was benign.
Of course it was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's fine.
Hey, listen, Amadeo, you know, they talk about these getting a background check.
I think about it.
Amadeo met with President George W. Bush.
That's insane.
So tell people who got out of prison for all of our new listeners who aren't familiar
with who you are.
Give them a brief background on your history.
Let's, let's sum it up.
I mean, we did a whole podcast on this, obviously in the beginning that went completely viral
and made you into who you are today.
And it's your take.
So tell, give us like the elevator style pitch of your background, your life on the road
with the FBI, how long you spent in prison and how you met Amadeo.
I mean, that was it.
You just did a great job.
So, okay.
So I owned a mortgage company, right?
I owned a mortgage company and we were doing some, you know, light fraud, changing W2s,
pay stubs, you know, not, you know, I mean, I was going to say nothing, all that sophisticated.
And then eventually I got in trouble for buying properties.
Like I would buy a house for 40,000, 50,000, renovate the house and then sell it to my
wife at the time in her maiden name so that I could get around something called seasoning.
Well, I'd done that several times and one of the brokers that worked for me, she started
her own place and she got in trouble running what's called a strawman scam.
She wore wire on me and then I lost my license, right?
So, FBI comes in, you know, they, they, they, they call me, I lose my license.
I can't be a mortgage broker anymore.
So I started a larger scam.
So instead of like saying, okay, I'm just going to go get a job, you know, and just I'll go sell used cars.
And, you know, what instead of what I did was I said, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to, I was on probation.
I got three years probation and I started making synthetic identities.
I started making fake people.
I would, I eventually, I started just by experimenting, but eventually I figured out how to go into,
into the Social Security Administration and get them to issue me social security numbers for
children that don't exist, like a 10 month old kid by giving them a fake birth certificate and a fake
shot record.
No, shot record.
And they'd issue me a social security number in any name that I said.
That was on the birth certificate.
So I'd get these names.
I would then pull the credit a few times.
I'd give them a couple of secured credit cards.
I'd make the payments and they'd end up with like after six months, they'd get like a 760 credit score,
750, 700 credit score, something like that.
And so what I, I then turned around, I started buying houses in those names, recording the value of those houses.
So I'd buy a house in Ebor City for $50,000.
And I'd record the value of the house at 200 or 250 or 230 or 190, whatever.
So look, I'd bought so many houses in so many different names, the whole area shot up through the roof.
That way, my synthetic identity can buy a house for $50,000, record the sale of that house just by paying the
extra docs names on the deed.
So record the sale of the house at $200,000.
And because he got perfect credit and I can provide W-2's and pay subs and proof of his residency and
residential, his history of payments, he could refinance that house for, let's say he could get a loan for like $180,000.
We bought it for $50,000.
So $180,000 minus $50,000 is like $130,000, less closing costs, whatever.
So let's say $120,000.
So I walk away with $120,000.
I make a few payments, let the house go into foreclosure.
And I did that.
Each guy bought five or six houses.
So each guy borrowed roughly a million dollars.
And of course, I'd also run up his credit cards, borrow $50,000, $60,000 in credit cards, get a couple personal loans.
So he gets another $100,000.
Ends up with like a million, million point two, whatever.
Make a few payments, let them all go.
Well, I did that for, how long did I do that for?
I did that for about 18 months.
I borrowed $11.5 million in the name of a bunch of fake guys.
Well, eventually another friend of mine gets caught in a bank trying, in a similar scam that he was working with me and somebody else.
And he ends up getting caught and he cooperates.
They put together a task force.
They watched me for three, four months.
Another buddy of mine comes to me and says, listen, bro, he's a sheriff's deputy.
He's like, I used to date this chick on the tape at PD.
She's a part of a task force.
They're coming to arrest you.
The FBI's coming to arrest you.
So I take off on the run.
I go on the run.
I immediately go to Atlanta.
I rent a house from somebody.
I satisfy the loan on the house.
So it looks like there's no loan on the house.
So I'm now living in a house.
As the owner of the house, I make a fake ID.
I get a social security number issued in his name.
I then build the credit history and I refinanced that house and I pull out like $400,000.
So like $350,000, $400,000.
What else?
I'm wrapping it up.
So then I take off from there.
Secret service is now after me.
So now the FBI, Secret Service is after me.
I then turn around and I go to South Carolina.
And at this point, I'm surveying homeless people.
I'm getting their information.
I'm getting driver's licenses in their names.
I'm getting passports in their names.
I end up buying a couple of houses in South Carolina.
I borrow $1.3 million, pulling out money out of that.
I get about $500,000 out of the bank.
I end up getting handcuffed in the bank, you know, questioned in the bank.
Oh, yeah.
This is the best part.
One of the best parts.
So I'm pulling out cash.
Well, I get an $8,000 out of seven or eight different accounts.
Like I get $8,000, $5,000, $7,000.
Like every other day, I'm pulling out money.
One day, I go into the bank as Gary Sullivan and two deputies walk up like I'm waiting
to get the cash and they call the police or the sheriff.
And two deputies come out and they walk up behind me and boom, they grab me by the arms.
My arms behind me, put handcuffs on me, bring me into the bank manager's office and they
start questioning.
Well, they don't question me.
They actually wait until they call a detective or investigator or whatever they're called.
They call him.
He shows up, but they keep calling me Gary Sullivan.
Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Sullivan, like, hey, Mr. Sullivan, you know, you're being detained.
We're waiting for a detective to come.
I thought it was the FBI, but he walks in and he says, hey, the head of Wachovia's,
there was Wachovia Bank, the head of Wachovia's fraud department said you're running some kind
of a scam.
He says you got three mortgages on the same house.
And I went, was that illegal?
And the guy goes, yeah, you know, he's, I'm not sure.
And I remember thinking like, I'm walking out of here.
And so to wrap it up so that, you know, to get through this.
So basically over the next 10 minutes, we talked to the head of Wachovia's fraud department
and I convinced the investigator that the bank has made a mistake, that I couldn't do anything
wrong.
The bank's loan officers may have done something wrong.
And so we go back and forth, back and forth.
Listen, the guy from Wachovia 100% knows what's going on, but he can't seem to convince this
guy because I'm running interference.
And finally at one point he says, this is really where I think he messed up.
At one point, you know, we're going back and forth, back and forth.
And I'm like, well, no, that's not what happened.
This is what happened.
No, no, no, no, that's not why would I do that?
And so we're going back and forth.
And finally he says, the guy from Wachovia goes, listen, he needs to be arrested.
He's running a scam.
He's using a fake ID.
His ID starts with zero, zero, zero.
South Carolina, their ID start with zero, zero, zero.
I had gone into the South Carolina DMV and gotten a real driver's license in the name
of Gary Sullivan's name.
So the detective says, he says, no, no, he said, our ID start with zero, zero, zero.
And I remember I lean into him and I go, I said, oh, come on, bro.
Now I'm not Gary Sullivan.
I go, what are we doing here?
And he goes, I know Gary.
I know.
And he literally got him there.
I was like, oh yeah.
Like this guy, now he clearly knows it's a real ID.
And this guy says it's fake and he knows it's real.
So he didn't believe anything this guy said.
Like everything, all the credibility he'd built up just got thrown out the window.
And I was like, come on.
So he's like, OK, Gary, he ends up hanging up on Wachovia.
He says, look, I'm going to have this guy come downtown, fill out a police report.
And then I'll talk to the district attorney, but I don't even know what to charge him with.
Yeah.
So you guys need to fill out a police report and an official complaint.
And he said, we'll see what happens from there.
So I end up leaving and following him back to the police.
I wasn't going to do the whole, because I didn't do the whole setup of the prostitute thing.
Like the guy that I had stolen his ID had been arrested multiple times for male prostitution in Las Vegas.
So he had run my stuff that he actually thought.
So everybody there thought years earlier I'd been arrested for prostitution in Las Vegas.
And I hadn't, but the homeless guy had.
So anyway, I follow them back to the police station, fill out a police report, and he releases me.
Like I get my car and I leave.
I then go to, I then go back to Charlotte, North Carolina, pack up my stuff, drive to Houston where I was dating this chick.
She'd already relocated, go there, get into an argument with her, empty the truck of all my IDs, everything.
I have nothing on me except for an ID that I'm sure they're looking for by now.
And I drive all the way back to Charlotte because I get into an argument with her and I'm just like, okay, we're done.
Drive back to Charlotte, on the way back to Charlotte, I call the secret, I call the FBI agent.
Try and talk about turning myself in, but she's lies to me a bunch of times.
So then I go back to Charlotte.
When I go back to Charlotte, I get my car.
I go into a Starbucks and I almost get caught in the Starbucks from the US, from the US Marshals.
I then go to Nashville, Tennessee.
I borrow $3.5 million and I'm there for about a year and a half.
So I was on the run for about three years and then I was there and I end up getting caught there because
Dateline NBC News was about to come out.
I was leaving.
I was cashing out a bunch of cash out of different banks.
I was pulling money out because this was before Bitcoin and all that stuff.
The only way to get cash out in 2006 is you go in the bank and you ask for cash.
So I was pulling out cash out of multiple accounts and we were asking people to cash checks for us.
The girlfriend, the girl I was dating at the time, asked a friend of hers to pull out cash.
That sparked a conversation.
She told her who I was and she called the Secret Service and the Secret Service
watched my house for a couple of days and then they arrested me.
That's the short version.
Obviously, I left out a ton of stuff but they end up arresting me.
I end up getting 26 years in prison.
I go to prison.
I get my sentence reduced twice.
I end up doing 13 years.
I was in the halfway house four years ago.
I called Danny to see about starting a true crime podcast because everybody said I should start a podcast
because I wrote a bunch of stories when I was locked up, true crime stories.
Danny used that to get me on the show and then never helped me.
So I do this podcast.
I just got out of the halfway house.
I've been out a few months and he says...
I don't even think you were officially out yet.
No, we talked.
I was in the halfway house.
But when I got out, it was like in October.
I got out in July.
You called me in October.
You said, listen, man.
I remember the day you came in, it was a guy...
Another podcast canceled.
Yeah.
And I was like, can you come in today?
Yeah.
Because that's what you said.
You called me that day.
You were like, listen.
You hadn't put anything up, I think, in a week or two.
And you said I...
The guy canceled.
Or he rescheduled.
Yeah.
And he couldn't come in.
And he was like...
Because I had called up multiple times and asked him questions about how does YouTube work.
When I got locked up, there was no YouTube.
Yeah.
So I'm like, how does YouTube work?
I don't understand.
How do you make money?
Well, what kind of cameras do you need?
You know, I'm asking him these questions.
So when Danny called me, he said, listen.
Somebody canceled.
I need you to come in and do a podcast like today.
I answered all your questions like...
You've been annoying me for two or three months now.
You said you'd come in and I need somebody to come in.
I was like...
He did answer all my questions.
I conned the con man to the stars.
But I remember I looked at the thing...
And I don't know what any of these numbers mean.
But I remember whatever it was that I saw, it was like a video...
And I don't know how to do it.
I don't know how to do most popular, most this.
So I looked at a few videos and they had like 15,000, 20,000.
And I remember thinking...
Oh, I don't think it...
Because I remember thinking...
Videos got millions.
That's a viral video.
It got millions.
And I was like...
There's like 15,000, 20,000.
And I went...
Nobody even watches this guy's show.
I'll go on his show because I was kind of nervous.
Yeah, I'll go do it and see what happens.
Good little starter.
Right.
I come here.
It ends up getting, you know, fucking 1.5 million views.
And it's blowing up.
In a month.
Yeah.
And then people start reaching out to me saying...
Hey, we'd like you to come...
You know, we're having a lunch or we're having a convention.
We'd like you to have lunch with a small group of investors just to tell your story.
Yeah.
On a little obscure island in Virgin Islands.
No.
It's Puerto Rico.
Yeah.
In Puerto Rico, yeah.
Little St. James.
And so I fly it and they pay me like 1,800 bucks and they flew me out, flew me out.
I couldn't believe it.
I was like, this is insane.
These guys are going to pay me to come talk to them.
And then...
Life is good.
Right.
And now...
And then it becomes...
Hey, we've got a mortgage convention.
Can you come talk to us?
You know, and I'm like, sure.
How many people will be there?
Like, yeah.
And then they, you know, we arrange for whatever it is, 3,000, 4,000, however much to fly out,
tell my story over the course of 45 minutes, answer some questions for 15 or 20 minutes,
get on a plane, fly back.
Nice.
So...
And then that's evolved.
I've been doing that.
Like I'm trying to do more and more of that.
So if anybody's out there, I speak at mortgage conventions, what do you call...
Cyber conventions, whatever.
And how long did it take for the home title lot to reach out to you and make you like
the face of their brand?
You know who got home title lot was...
was Tyler.
Really?
No shit.
Yeah, I didn't.
Like I literally remember, I used to get up early on like a Saturday and they were always
playing on Saturdays, they play the infomercial.
And I would go watch those commercials and I'd sit there and watch them and you know,
they'd have a lawyer, they'd have an FBI agent, they'd have some victims, and then they'd
have some guy in a hoodie that you couldn't see his face and his, his voice is muffled.
And I remember thinking, you're showing everybody except for the, for the fraudster.
And I thought, you guys make it seem like you're doing it like cinematically, like on purpose.
But the truth is, you guys can't find anybody to talk about this.
You know?
Like guys like me don't come out and start talking.
They come out and try and kind of try and reacclimate themselves or blend back into society
and don't talk about it.
And I remember thinking, those guys, they need, I need to be doing those commercials.
But I forgot about it.
So years later, my booking agent contacts me and says...
Tyler?
Tyler.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He calls me and says, listen, have you ever thought, have you ever heard of home title
lot?
And I was like, yeah.
And he goes, well, well...
It's amazing.
Everybody loves it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You'd be perfect for this.
He's like, you'd be perfect for it.
I mean, I used to watch the commercials and he goes, you mind if I reach out and try and
talk to them?
I was like, sure.
Listen, an hour later, I get an email from these people saying, hey, we'd love to talk
to you.
When can we arrange a meeting?
Next day, I talk to them on the phone.
Give me a couple of days.
I tell her my story.
She looks at the podcast, Danny's podcast, which is like, at this point, it's 1.4, 1.5.
One point's climbing.
And she says, we'd love for you to fly you out to Oklahoma and shoot some commercials.
Like a week later, no, like a month or two later, I'm on a plane flying to Oklahoma.
Then they pay me to do all these spots.
And then, listen, that's not like it.
It just...
How many years ago was that?
Was that three years ago?
Yeah.
Four years ago?
You know what's funny?
That's crazy.
People will say, people will be like, man, would Danny pay you for that?
And I'm like, nothing.
I had a cheap mother.
He didn't pay me nothing.
He didn't give me nothing.
And I'd be like, no, no, man, what do you even do that for?
Are you serious?
Yeah.
Bro, I haven't had a job since.
Yeah.
Like, I got out.
People are buying paintings from me.
They buy books.
I got book sales.
I'm getting asked to...
Flown out.
I'm getting flown all over the place.
Minded dying.
Right.
Like, people are so narrow-minded that they're like, they don't want to do anything.
They don't see cash right now.
They don't see it.
And I didn't see it.
But now, I realize, like, Jeff...
I bought you Waffle House the first night.
You did.
I only...
Only because I complained on the way here.
Because I remember saying, listen, man, listen, my truck barely...
Or my Jeep.
Right.
That Jeep.
Right.
Nothing.
This one's that much better.
But at least this one's got it.
I remember the very first podcast we went to Waffle House afterwards.
Yeah.
I love Waffle House.
I fucking love Waffle House, too.
It's one of my favorite places.
Yeah.
Now look at you, Matt.
Yeah, I'm doing good.
You were on Funky TV.
So I'm doing a fucking TV.
You were on Valuetainment.
Valuetainment.
Valuetainment.
Underbelly.
Oh, yeah.
You did software underbelly.
I did Vlad.
I just did Larry Lawton.
Wow.
Larry, who said, I don't interview snitches and sex offenders.
We just had an hour and a half interview.
He was like, well, you know, you did what you did.
What's his problem with snitches and rats?
I what's his problem with him? Yeah, well, he's a stand-up guy and you know, he doesn't like him
That's like they're not okay with sociopathy. I
Don't even know that means sociopath sociopath. Oh, okay. We but what we mean. They're not who's well
They're not okay with like a recognizing that their own sociopathic values like you are like you you're a self-admitted narcissist
Sociopath, which is you're okay with yeah, you're okay with the fact that you ratted people out
But you mean you mean Larry lot and what's his problem in his problem. Is that what you're saying?
No, I mean like what did he say to you? Like what was his he didn't that's what I'm saying
I really expected like a confrontation. I brought I brought Jess with me, you know just in case you got
Yeah, I need to ease it down a little bit. No, I thought she could take it
um and and
Like I'm not gonna do well, but Jess is tough. So no, bro. You look at you. You're freaking your jack diesel right now
Fucking this is this is the brand-new shirt that shirt just came off the racks at Nordstrom. That is a brand-new t-shirt
Target um so so anyway we go and we yeah
He I kept waiting for him to I was when we got to that point
I thought he was gonna say be like you what and he was like yeah, I understand
You know they are race these people already snitching on you. You're in a bad spot
I was like that wasn't what I expected from him at all
And he said I have kind of changed my I've softened it softened as I've gotten older kind of changed my yeah
You probably hear a lot of stories. What what is have you ever heard of the Prisoner's Dilemma? Yes
Yes, that's a famous that he won the Nobel Prize. Where's that Nash?
Can you find out who who came up with that the Prisoner's Dilemma? It's fascinating
I just heard it like articulated beautifully in a book. I was just reading and they they they
they compare it to
Mutually assured destruction with nuclear bombs. Yeah, it's a Nash
What who his last name is Nash the guy beautiful mind. Oh
Really a beautiful mind the the guy who that was based on his last name is Nash was a mathematician. Oh
You did Michael studied with his grad students. Wow. That's cool. That's cool. Anyways, so
Can you explain what that is like what the idea it is?
It's basically like you have two people who who collaborated in a crime, right? You separate them
Right, and you talk to one of them and you say look if you don't give me this stuff
if you have two options you can a you can give me this information and
Reduce get yourself off basically save yourself, right and you're gonna have to give up this guy, right?
Or this guy is gonna do the same thing to you like you present them both the same thing
Mm-hmm and each one thinks that fuck fuck fuck. What if I don't give him up?
He's probably gonna give me up right and they're both think thinking the same thing, right?
But I think the third I think you know on it a little bit
The prisoners limit is a game analyzing in game theory
It is a thought experiment the challenge is to completely rational agents to a dilemma
They can cooperate members of the lower lower. Okay. There you go two
Okay, here's the members of a crime criminal. Yeah, you go ahead and read it. Hell. No
I two members of a criminal gang a and b are arrested and imprisoned each prisoner is in solitary confinement with no means of communication with their partner
The principal charge the principal charge would lead to a sentence of ten years in prison
However, the police do not have evidence for the conviction
Their plan is to sentence both to two years in prison on a lesser charge, but offer each prisoner a
Faustian bargain if one of them confesses to the crime of the principal charge betraying the other
They will be pardoned and free to leave
While the other must serve the entirety of the sentence instead of just scroll down
Instead of just two years for the lesser charge
This leads to a possible of four different outcomes
number one if a and b both remain silent they will each serve the lesser charge of two years in prison b if
A betrays B B wait if a betrays B
But B remains silent a will be set free and B will serve ten years
Option number three if a remains silent, but B betrays a a will serve ten years
But B will be set free option number four if a and b both betray each other. They share the sentence and share five years each
Yeah, that was that's very very interesting so most prisoners
What do they choose out of these four options Matt wait like 90 95%
They brought both sides on each other right no they
well
The problem is that scenario doesn't necessarily really work in the real world because if I snitch on you
Who do you snitch on they're like we already got yeah, they don't even they don't need you to they're not giving you both five years
Yeah, they just need one person this right now. You're doing 10. Yeah, I'll walk away. You do 10
Yeah, I put money on your books. So it's just the first one that snitches
Right, but in this scenario where there's gotta be like this
It's usually that usually there's always 99% of the time somebody snitches. Mmm. I it's it's like
It's probably 90 95% here's the problem is that the statistics say that's like
It's like 87 88%
But the problem with that is that doesn't mean that they didn't they didn't call the other guys that only 88% cooperated
It means that 88% got the cooperation
So you and I both might have cooperated
Right, but I get the cooperation and they say yeah, you did tell on them
But that was three days later and you're the king late. It's too late
This guy is gonna give you up and you're the bigger fish. So you don't get any cooperation. You're doing 10 years
He's going free and by the way, almost nobody goes free like you're probably still doing still do it, too
Yeah, right, which is better than it's better than five. It's better than 10
Yeah, right and you you were even beyond any of these options because you were
Aggressively going out and seeking opportunities to wrap people out in prisons people that you had no involvement with nice Wow
Nice. Wow. That's actually not true. By the way, that's not what happened. Oh, really? Yeah
It was it I was just writing stories like this guy at one point
I'm walking around the compound with him and
He says he asked you if you could he could trust you. Yeah, at least you were honest keep in mind
Just I had just gotten back from getting seven years off my sentence for cooperation
Yeah, and then I come back a month or so later
I'm walking around the compound with this guy who's also cooperating against some his co-definance and he keeps saying
He ran a Ponzi scheme. His name was Ron Wilson and he kept saying
Yeah, they're never gonna give me any cooperation. I'm like, yeah, these guys are gonna arrest these guys
They're gonna indict them. They're gonna plead guilty. You're gonna be fine
They're gonna reduce your sentence. No, you don't understand. I was like, well, what are you talking about?
And he goes they think I hid Ponzi scheme money
I'm like, well, they'd have to find the Ponzi scheme money and you didn't as it did you and he's like now
I go, well, right. So you didn't hide it. They'd have to find it prove that you were lying in order to not give you something
And he said no, no, they're gonna fuck me out of the cooperation. I was like, okay
Well, that's not possible. And if it is then we'll hide we'll get this. There was a guy Frank Amadeo Frank will
Sorry
Frank will Frank will get you. Yeah, Frank will reduce. We'll get them forced the government to reduce your sentence
So that goes on and then let's say
Like let's say two weeks later
Comes up again and then a month later it comes up again. I go, you know, you keep saying this
Like they would have to find the money and I said, there's no money. So that's not gonna happen
And he sat there and we were walking and he goes
Can I trust you?
And I went probably not and he goes I
Did hide some money I gave you know my my my wife I gave her it was like 150,000
He's like but the problem is she found out since then she found out he was having an affair
And she we're getting a divorce. She hates my guts
My fear is she's gonna turn the money in just so I don't get any time off my sentence
And he said and my brother's got like 30 grand. I was like, okay
but he's not even like 200 that life's like us less than 200,000 and I
Didn't like he won it fell on my lap and I didn't do anything right away. That's what I was listen
I almost feel bad about that. I was filled like you're an idiot. You should have immediately gone to the phones
But I didn't because I thought your Matt running to the phone right after that like like like in the middle
He just says it Frank and I go what and then I just start running doing like the windmill all the way
It's like you be Frank meet me at the phone
But but what happened was I remember thinking
The government didn't want to reduce my sentence the first time when they promised to
So like they're not like first of all, they're not gonna they're not gonna do anything for this
This is a couple hundred thousand dollars
And that's if they go there and these people admit it and I doubt they will so I was like
Well, listen, they're not gonna say anything. Don't worry about it. And so we have the conversation. No big deal like a month later
My lawyer was supposed to send me my transcripts from when I'd been resentance. She never did so I call her
Hey, what's up? I said, you never sent the transcripts. He's like, oh, man. I'm so sorry
I'll do it and whatever. Okay fine. You got lost in the shuffle. Yeah, right. So we we're talk
So I said, okay, okay, that's cool. Please, you know, please don't forget. She said no, no, I will I'm gonna send them
I'm gonna go on right now. Okay. And so we're talking and she goes and she says so what's what's going on?
And I go, what do you what do you mean? She's what's happening in there anything happening?
And I thought like this is this chicken this woman never wanted to talk to me. Yeah, which he was representing me
She didn't want to talk to me. She damn sure doesn't now. She heard her job done. Yeah, and she goes. Yeah, anything happening
And I went no like and I went well, you know something weird happened the other day listen to this and she was what's the guy's name?
I told her what happened. She's what's his name? I go Ron Wilson. She looks him up Ron Wilson. She says, oh, wow
This is a big deal. There's a lot of articles. Oh, this is a bad guy
Look at like nine. She's got like 900 victims like he stole from churches and stuff and she's going on and on like
I don't know. I've never ordered anything on the guy and she's like, oh, wow. She's like, yeah
Yeah, she goes, let me make a call a couple calls and I was like, okay, like she never really wanted to just chatted you up
Yeah, and I was like, okay. I hang up the phone. I don't even think about it again a week later a
Correctional officer comes up to me. He goes, hey Cox and I go. Yeah, what's up? He was next move. You got to go to SIS
Now SIS is internal security, right?
Like they're the special investigative services and they investigate like the other cops they investigate
They do like investigations against like people bringing in drugs, whatever. Mm-hmm, and I was like
Okay, or if you're cooperating like against other inmates will cooperate against each other or whatever the case may be
You know cell phones like hey that guy's got a cell phone. They said Johnny's whatever and I was like, um, okay
So I go to SIS and everybody knows that's
Yeah, you're going out, but here's the thing. I was writing people's stories
So SIS called me a venture every once in a while or maybe every month or so they go cocks go to SIS
I'd be like, okay, so I go to SIS. I'd walk a what's up and they go hold on cocks lit
We got a freedom of information act you ordered on this guy. They'd be like here this guy John Boziak
Like what's going on? You're not allowed to have his stuff. I'm like, no, no, no
I'm allowed to have that's and then I'd explain I'm writing a story on that guy
You got to give me that that that I need that I need that maybe they go
Well, what's the story because I'd had some guys in Rolling Stone magazine and you know
I'd been in some magazines. They knew I was writing stories. They knew I had a book deal
So they're like, well, what's the story and I tell them the story and they go, okay here
You can have it. So I go there thinking they just caught something in the mail
Open the door. They go sit go stay in that room. I'm like, okay. I walk in. I walk in the room
There's a fat CEO there and he goes sit down. I'm like, okay
Dial stuff. This is how they talk to you sit out. All right. They dialed the phone
Yeah, yeah, I got him right here. All right. Hold on here. Talk to this guy. I'm like, okay
Like he didn't tell me shit. Yeah, you're like, what's the fuck going on guy goes? This is agent, you know
Whatever I remember his last name is griffin. This is Tom. I think it's Tom griffin is this is Tom griffin with the Secret Service
I understand that you know where Ron Wilson hid some Ponzi scheme money. I'm like, whoa. Oh shit. I
Said whoa, I need something in writing. I need
Yeah, no, I'll get you something right. Well, what do you have I said, no, no, no, no, like yeah
You guys are involved in multiple times and I was like, no, no, I need something in writing
I need and I sorry explain it to him. I need something in writing from the US Attorney and
And I said, listen, it's not millions. He's well, how much is that I guess not millions
He has a half a million. I it's not millions. Okay. It's a few hundred thousand dollars
But I do know where that word is and the people
Wilson seems to think that they're gonna give it up if you even ask for it and he goes, okay
I'll get you I'll get something so we end up emailing each other. He gets me something from the US Attorney's office
Saying that they will reduce my sentence if there are arrests or if there's an indictment arrest
Or a significant amount of money is recovered
You know who that's pretty all that's pretty subject whatever that's supposed to be right
So I explain this is what he told me they turn around they request interviews from both of those people from the the wife
Who at that point they're they're getting I don't know if they were divorced yet, but they were getting divorced and
His brother his wife comes in and turns over
Remember he said a hundred and fifty thousand in cash. She comes in and turns over three hundred and fifty thousand dollars
The brother comes in the next day and walks in and turns in
150 so it's half a million dollars and some of it's like
Silver
You know ingots and you know cuz he was a silver. It was a precious metals dealer. She's got fucking gold coin
She's got so it's mostly cash, but there's also probably a hundred thousand between the two of them in gold and silver and whatever
just a half a million dollars and
Listen like a couple weeks later
Wilson comes to me and he goes
They indicted me. I'm like no
They indicted you. He's like, yeah, that's crazy. What after what?
My wife they called my wife and my brother. Oh, how did they know? I don't know that's crazy
And he's like yeah, I've been indicted in her. I'm like, okay
And so they put him on a bus bring him back to South Carolina
He pleads guilty because he's done and he gets six months added onto his sentence
His ex-wife gets like six months probation and the brother gets like six months probation and like I
Think the wife got a hundred community service. I was like neither one of them became felons
It was other sentence was under a year
So you're in the federal system if it's over a year you're a felon. It's under you're not so
Both their sentences were under they're both
And it was for obstruction of justice they were charged with obstruction of justice so was Wilson Wilson got six months
He already had 19 and a half years now. He's got 20
Turn around go to the US Attorney. Hey said you reduce my sentence
if there was a substantial amount of money recovered arrests or
Indictments there was all of those and they said yeah, it's not really enough but first they said they said we don't really
We don't know what are you talking about? We don't know what Cox is talking about
So I had a file of motion with the court. Well, Frank Amadeus filed a motion with the court 2255
They said we don't even know what he's talking about your honor
We sent him a copy of the letter the judge says I want to we weren't any evidentiary hearing or something like that
and you know, you guys are gonna we don't have to figure this out and so they
Immediately come back and they say look we'll reduce your sentence. We'll give you I forget what one level off
We argue we end up with three levels off which was five more years
Six months later. I get five years knocked off my sentence
And he gets six months added. He got six months added, but then COVID happened and he got released. He's home now
Oh, really? He's been home since Kobe. He's been home for a couple years. Where's he live South Carolina?
He'd be a great guess. We got a yeah, listen. Let me tell you something. He didn't he didn't like a
Some happened somebody said he like thanked you or something later on wait. This is what's so funny. So I've heard two things
The I that story is true, but then I'll tell you something another one too, which is the opposite
So what happened is?
Probably
Whatever five four or five months after he was sentenced
I'm standing there waiting for count, right? I'm standing at myself. Okay, and you know that the
You've seen prison shows, right? Like, you know, they're just let's just door after door
Yeah, well, we don't have doors. This was at a low
So there's just it's just an open oh kind of an open bay
But they have you have like you're like at a cubicle, but it's concrete block
So you're standing there waiting for the cop to walk by and count
Understand there and this new guy had just gotten there black guy. He's still wearing his he's still wearing his
The bus clothes they ship you in and he's standing there and I'm standing there and he looks up at me goes. Hey, I
There's not a lot of white guys in prison. So if you ask like, hey, you know, we're Dan, you know, you know
We're Danny is like there's a good chance to white guys. Like yeah, there's like four day white Danny's
Yeah, so he was hey, and I go, yeah, what's up? And he goes he was uh, you know a guy named Cox and I went
Yeah
What do you need? And he goes I got a message from from uh
Ron Wilson and I looked at him and I went
And I'm thinking this is gonna be a problem. Yeah, this is where the movie goes bad. Yeah, this is where I get stabbed
Like I'm already looking at his hands. I'm like, okay, and I went. Yeah, I said, I'm Matt Cox
He's get the fuck out as I don't know Matt Cox. I said, what's up? And he goes not seriously
I pull out my ID and he goes, holy shit. She's kind of laughs. He's okay. He said, um, yeah
I got a message from when I said what's that we're still waiting for the count for the cop like he's counting the other unit
He'll be here in five minutes or two minutes
Who knows and he goes he said he and he looks around right because he realizes what we're talking about
It's pretty dicey. Mm-hmm. And he kind of looks around and he goes he want he said I was locked up in South Carolina with them
And I went, okay. He said he want he was he wanted
He told me he was because he knew I was coming to Coleman to the low and he said to look you up
And he told me to tell you that
He understands what you did
He's not angry
He hopes you get as much time off as you can now by this point
I'd already got my time off
And he goes hopes you get as much time off as you can and he wanted to let you know
He's at peace. He's found Jesus
And I went he was a religious kind of kind of a religious guy anyway
and I went
Okay, I said, all right, and he goes yeah
And I said, is this going to be an issue like
Am I going to hear that you're telling everybody this and he goes, no, he said let me put it this way
He said bro. He said
I'm gonna he said he said something like I he was I just got you know six years or something
He said but I he was but I plan on being out of here in a few months
Like that he's and I said, ah
It was he was that's between you and me. I said absolutely
He said but I Wilson told me about you and the whole thing. He's like I got you. I understand. I said, all right
I think I was gone two months later. Yeah two months later
And I would see him like I'm we walk by each other. He'd look up. He go. What's up?
Are you what's up one day? Boom. He's on the pack now gone
So, you know how we how we got out
What no he had snitched on a bunch of people. He'd already testified at several trials
He was just waiting for those people to get sentenced and then then he's out. He's out. Yeah
So what's funny is so that's what I had always heard that wilson didn't have an issue that right
You're all like
so
Then what happened was I'd say
Oh
Never mind
Then I did an interview with a guy that I was locked up with this guy named chris marrero
He's like a sovereign citizen and we're doing an interview
Was maybe it was before the interview and chris had been moved to
I don't know if it was but no it was yazu yazu or butner
I forget but he'd been moved and he was locked up with wilson
I said, hey, I said you locked up with wilson and he goes. Yeah. Yeah. He's yeah
He told me he told me about you about what happened. I said, ah, you know, it is what it is that I'm laughing about
He said oh, he hates you and I go really
I said I told him what had happened
And he said he goes well, I mean, maybe that's true. He said but when I mentioned you I said, hey, you know, what's up?
I said, um, I asked him if he was still in communication with you and he goes and and he said what did he say, um
That piece of shit motherfucker or something like that like like he really he was oh really just
Jump, you know, uh that he snitched me out and I'm which always kills me
He was in the middle of snitching out
Two guys on his case like you were in the middle of snitching
So you snitched but didn't you snitch?
Fuck you. Yeah
Just had a bad day, right? Oh, man. So that's what chris told me. Oh, yeah, he hates your guts like
So I was like, okay. Well, that's completely at odds with what the black guy told me
Um
We need to get to the bottom of what are you?
How do you talk to people who are like extremely uncomfortable with you?
Admitting to be being a snitch like that guy that one guy you did a podcast with like when they get really upset about you being
A snitch and who's there? Oh wait. Oh, what's this?
Big hurt big hurt. Yeah, like what is your how do you how do you rationalize it to them?
um
I mean I rationalize it because they here's the problem with those guys
Those guys always turn around and say
that
Well, uh, the code of the street like and that's where it just right then it's like stop it
Like they're trying to say hey, there's a moral code among inmate or among prisoners or criminals that say you don't cooperate against other criminals
but the truth is
If you're a criminal you don't really have a moral code if you're a moral person or a code of ethics like
You would be working two jobs to pay your bills and not robbing banks
So for you to sit here and say hey, I'm a moral person. I'm a I have a code
Yeah, but there's a difference between like fucking over a friend or a fellow human being versus
Just not obeying the laws that are put into place by our country or our government
But who am I who am I fucking over?
Another criminal
You think he wouldn't fuck me over? He's a criminal
Defined by the government. He's still a another. He's a still another human being. He's a could be a friend
Yeah, there's a difference between like selling drugs and like destroying your friend's life
Well, wait a minute. My friend's committing fraud or my friend is selling drugs with me. I'm not randomly saying hey
I'm gonna go pick somebody and say this guy who works at wal-mart as a cashier has never done anything wrong
I'm gonna say he sells drugs with me
Like I'm not gonna do that
But if you and I run into a run into a bank together
And we run out and I get caught and you take off
And I'm looking at 15 years and you're not answering my fucking calls anymore. You're fucking done
You're done
I'm in the bottom bunk bud. Yeah, I mean, you know, what if we're both caught?
We're both in prison and we're in the prisoner's dilemma and we're both separated and you'd better hope they talk to you before they
I mean, I don't know what to say, you know, I know that I mean the appropriate thing to say is, you know
I would never here's the thing you remember the guy. Oh
That's right. Um, okay. I interviewed a guy the other day
That gave up like 11 million dollars in gold
To the government to try to get out of prison and they reduced the sentence. They got him out
now when we were talking
During the interview, he said, you know, they caught me and they got me in the room
They wanted me to snitch but I was like, I'd rather die. I'd rather die than snitch and I was like, right, right?
He's like, you know, you know, I'm saying I said, no, I don't I said, bro
I said, I had a fucking goal on anybody. You made a mistake there and he kind of like stopped and he went, um
Well, so so I and he didn't obviously doesn't realize my stance on it
Yeah, so he just kept going and said, you know, they asked for this much money back
He gave him that they wouldn't like gave him like whatever
He gave him like three or four million in gold. They said now you got more because somebody else was cooperating
Um, and they said now you got more and so he takes and he finally he said after a month or so
I finally went
I can't do this
So he said I went and I gave him the rest of the money
I said, okay, and he said, you know and so then like a couple days later
They let me they they gave me a they gave him a a minor sentence
And he ended up getting out of prison. I'm forgetting exactly what he ended up getting
But it was instead of the 15 or 20 years. He got next to nothing and he got out
so
The point is that
So that's what he was saying, right? Like, yeah, you know, this and that I would never I would never
And then when it was all over and the the cameras were off
I looked at him. I said, you know, you fucked up by giving him all that money back and not just cooperating against all those fucking people
Same people that are cooperating against you. I said and he goes
And you know, I said, I mean, I hear what you say you'd rather die you died. He said, well, that's how I felt then
He said but after going to prison
And after what happened with all those people and realizing that everybody was cooperating against me
He said even after I got sentenced people would get arrested that I didn't tell on
And they would cooperate against me. They try and get me fucked up on something else
He said, um, I just he said at that point I realized like
Yeah, he said I I really fucked up
He said and I said, you know, I said, I'll bet you all those people you didn't cooperate against
I'll bet you none of them contacted you
None of them came to visit you. None of them put money on your books. He said they don't answer my calls
I said, right. So for a bunch of scumbag piece of shit that wouldn't even talk to you anymore
They expected you to take the whole rap and they run off
And I'm left here. It's not like you guys are putting money on my books. You're helping my mom
You're going by to see how my ex-wife is you're going by to help, you know with my with the kids
No, you're saying you got caught go fuck yourself. See you the fuck you and then then if it's every man
So they're saying it's every man for himself. You're right. It is
But watch this
And next thing, you know, you start cooperating they all get knocked off you get a bunch of time off your sentence
Still got a few million in gold. Yeah, exactly like that guy could have cooperated and kept the money
And that's what he says about I wish I and he said I wish I'd cooperated and kept the money
But he didn't know that at the time. He was still believing that whole bullshit code and listen
All of these guys that I talked to say the same thing and there are guys I know
That I'll interview and they'll say, yeah, you know, and they gave me 10 years
and I'm just like
Give you 10 years like the man you've been arrested four times you've been in prison four times
You've been like the mandatory minimum is 20
On that many kilos of meth. How'd you get 20? You know, you got to but I don't say anything because I know what they want to do
It's the same thing big hurt does he doesn't question. Some guy says he robbed 10 banks and he got five years. Stop it, bro
Stop it. You took people hostage. You did home invasion. You got five years. Yeah
And then they yeah, my fucking could have finished they snished on me. They they okay
Typically what happens is when it's all over. I realized like I'm not gonna out you you don't want to fucking say that's fine
But when it's all over I say bro, come on man. You got fucking and they usually go
Well, you know, I like I'm gonna tell you
But you don't want anybody to know. Okay, I understand and then they say
Well, yeah, here's what happened
Listen half the fucking stories that I've written either they admit to it and the ones that won't admit it
I know the truth like I got all your paperwork in you're walking around saying you're a solid guy and it's like
But you had a 20 year mandatory minimum. You got 10 years
What's I read your sentencing transcripts. What's that about? What's up with the 5k one? They're like, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
Where'd you get that? Yeah, don't say 5k one. That's a sentence reduction. Like don't say 5k one
I'm I'm I'm walking around the compound telling everybody they're snitches
You know and then I'm a stand-up guy like it's like you're not even man enough to just fucking
To even admit to it. So one you cooperated now. You won't even say it. Yeah now you're telling everybody else
Oh, you that dude over there. Yeah, I think he fucking snitched you snitched shut up
Like just be quiet
That's what that guy John a light said when he was in here and hey
He was in some sort of rico case right and he said that there was like an
Endless laundry list of mob guys that snitched on him to get out
Yeah, which fucked him
Well, listen the and they were they were all guys that were like high-level mafia dudes
Of course and those are the guys that are most outspoken about like snitching. Yeah snitches get snitch stitches
Or yeah, they get fucking buried in the desert. You know, and this is the other thing about that is like
If you're a high rent like these are guys that it could be dangerous to tell on each other like these these are white collar guys
They're not hurting anybody
They're not gonna like once you worried am I worried about the banker
The banker he's gonna come and do a hit on me because he got five years or he got six extra months
He's a fucking banker. He fills out paperwork. He's harmless
That'd be different if these were murderers or gangsters or you know monsters that are shoot
Well, then you could be like, yeah, they might hurt my family. That's another thing like that always kills me too
Like well, I don't want to say anything. They might kill my they might kill my family like
Like these are the people you're protecting people that you're worried. They might kill your family. These are good guys
These are scumbags
I cut anybody's fucking throat to get out of her
Clip that straight up
I love do me a favor
Look at me and then look directly at that camera and say I'd cut anybody's throat to get out of prison
I'd cut anybody's throat to get out of prison
That's a good one
That's that's fucking great. There there's a yeah, what your tiktok's got
I noticed that several of my clips have millions. Oh, yeah
I just we just posted one a couple days ago that has like I just looked I just noticed today
It has five million views not a tiktok. It's a youtube short
A youtube has five million views in like a week. Yeah
That's
How many subscribers do you have now?
Uh, I don't know. It's like almost there's like 600 and something 600 and change on the main channel
And then it's like 300,000. I I have 300 on the clips channel. That's insane. I have
I have 77,000 subscribers
Not that i'm complaining, but it's not 600,000 like that's insane
And I have these people that clip my stuff and put them up and they got like three million hits five million seven million four million is like
What is going on they're doing more views on their clips than you are
I got guys entire channels. I mean, you know four five six thousand
You know, they just started a channel ran a couple of interviewed me ran a couple of clips and they got
That all helps though. That all helps you
It doesn't I mean maybe not
Directly, but it definitely not right now. I don't know if you've picked this up
But i'm not really a big fan of helping other people. It's a benefits me
You know, I don't know anybody out there helping me going out of their way. Let me do this to help
Actually, that's not true. There's this guy this canadian guy that started my
My tiktok account got taken down and he started a tiktok account for me
five months ago
Maybe and it's got it's got
Um, it's got over a hundred thousand follow a hundred thousand followers in like five months
Nice. Yeah, but then he got busy and can't do it anymore
So I had to get somebody else
And he did that for free
Really cut him up and said look man. He said can I start doing I'd like to do this for you
I'm like
Why I can't pay you and he was like no. No, I just want to do it
I just think I can I think I can run up your numbers
That's great. Yeah, you got people that like you you got people that follow you they're hardcore fans
They believe in what you're doing and they connect with you because you're a great storyteller
That's some they believe in what you're doing. What am I doing? You're telling stories. You're talking to people the interview people
Spreading the word you're doing these guys that send me things saying you're inspirational. What are you talking about?
I've never said anything is inspirational in my life. Like I'm not making an attempt to be inspirational
title lock
I don't know you're inspirational because of your incredible physique mat cocks
I want to know the secret behind what is your what is your workout routine? What are you eating?
I'm too much the basics test D ball
He just goes on
Dude is fucking insane. It's so it's so what do you want? What what kind of what's your uh protocol right now?
What are you are you waking up a 5 a.m. Every day and hitting the iron or what no wake up it?
I wake up about three three this morning. I woke up at like 3 30. You're like jocco
You're like the jocco of true crime. So I wake up and I write for you know, I write for a couple hours two three hours
and then
um
Then jess gets up from three to six
um
Yeah, well usually probably from let's say three to five because around five jess comes down the stairs
and makes coffee
And she'll make me a cup of coffee and then she'll sit there
And we'll talk for a little bit a little on and off she plays on facebook and we kind of talk and then she goes up
And she gets her daughter up and then by six
Yeah, by six o'clock
We um, we walk out the door and we go to the gym
What do you write about when you wake up?
um, I mean i'm still like just start writing or do you like pick things no no no i'm i'm i'm working on like
i'm working on three different stories right now. So
One of them is consolidating that one story
And one of and I don't always do that like I sometimes i'll write like somebody will pay me to do like a
Press release and I'll write a press release or they'll ask me to write a story like a ghost write a story
You know, so I'll ghost write a story for somebody
um
And then they pay me and then so it's not always
You know, it's not or sometimes I'll wake up like it's I'd say three days out of the week
Maybe four days out of the week. I'm probably four days out of the week. I'm writing. So maybe the other two or three days
like I might come downstairs and and
Do something regarding painting or or fill out bills or answer emails or sometimes
I'll just grab my phone and start answering comments like I'll answer like 40 comments 50 comments and
you know and then
But usually because here's the thing i'm i'm working with my buddy pete right in prison
Right and he does research and then he sends it to me and then I pull it off the email put it into
Um a word document and then I consolidate it because he'll send me
He'll send me like a thousand words that really honestly. I need like 150 200
What is he researching? He's researching that that listen that same story. I started
um
The same time of the pandemic and then we just kind of stopped working on it and then we started working on it
It was the chinese
It's the chinese story about um
That that where these the um, what do you call it the uh, the chinese triad and
In california, they started hitting this is back in the night early 90s. They started robbing
Um computer chip manufacturing
Plants in the united states throughout the united states like they did by probably maybe 20
25 to 30 different warehouses. Um, sorry manufacturing plants. They go in
They zip tie 15 employees at two o'clock in the morning. They load up 10 000 intel processing chips
Into a couple of vans and then they drive off and then they go sell them for
You know, maybe it's 10 million dollars worth of chips. They sell them for like six million dollars
The chinese would ship them back to china put them into
computers and then ship them back to the united states like the whole chinese
Startup of building their whole tech industry was built on stealing computer chips
In the united states and shipping them back to china to then ship them back to sell them to the nice
When was this back in the it was late 80s early 90s
Wow, listen. It was so bad that that bill clinton
Ended up making a uh, uh, presidential. What do they call it not in a presidential order?
What do they call it? You know, they do a um, can you pull up something on this press where he signed?
Yeah, you know, they they signed into law
Because if it's national security then they can just sign it's a presidential. I want to say decree. I'm saying it wrong
Anyway, he signs it where he says listen. It was so bad
He says from now on all computer chip manufacturers have to have armed guards because they were getting robbed left and right
Damn and so then they then these guys turn around they start hitting the trucks
So now they wait for them to load up the trucks and then they just hit the trucks over
Um, and anyway, it's it's a super cool story. The name of the guy was uh, john long
But it mean I whether there's something on it specifically or not
John long. Who is john long john long is that the guy that was arranging all of these
Really? This guy's got two life sentences. What plus probably 150 years. He's in a pen
He's never getting out. I talked to him on the phone a couple of times
Hardcore gangster. I mean they were making millions a million. We're talking. We're talking about like a 25 year old kid
25 six 26 year old and he's getting directly paid by china
Well, I mean like he's getting paid through
Intermediaries like it's not like gg ping was cutting him a checker, you know walking over here. But yeah, so
Um, I wonder if you put computer chip with Chinese computer chip heights. What went on? No, that's 2016
john long. Look look john long
John long computer chip heist
Well, listen, they got they it was multiple different times that they got arrested. So
Like they didn't all get arrested at the same time. What is the title arm robbers of silicon valley?
Striking high tech companies every 10 days or so making off with computer chips and other components worth more than their weight in gold
with workers
Terrorized and losses in millions the fbi and the san jose police began an undercover
Operation 18 months ago by today in the wake of the biggest crackdown on thieves of computer components in the country
dozens of suspected high-tech
Birgans were under arrest
Caught in a sweeping raid that involved more than 500 police and federal federal officers on wednesday
Whoa, the operation led to more than 120 arrests mainly in silicon valley about 45 of them on wednesday
And they rest over recent months. The authorities said today
Damn bro
But do we still make computer chips in the u.s. We don't make them, right? They make them all in taiwan now
Yeah, but those are the no those are the semiconductors. Those are not the same thing, right? Well, well, I mean the united states makes
I'm sure they make some of them, but something like 80 of all computer chips are made in
Uh in taiwan and there are chips made in china
But they're low level chips like they might be chips that you put in a refrigerator or right, right, right?
These are not super sophisticated. What are the ones that are made in taiwan?
What what's the like stuff that goes in your goes in your car? They go into
computers, you know like your cell your cell phones like you know and they'll ship them over to like china
And the chinese are you know, they'll put them into the like they're like their workers. They're not super sophisticated
That's the problem with
where they keep saying like if they
Invade taiwan
They're not going to bomb the crap out of taiwan because they want to invade it because they obviously want right there
They want the at least they want the factories and everything put in place
The problem is even if they get over there, they can't if they kill too many people. They can't necessarily run the factories
so
You know, they don't want they don't want to bomb the factories either
Right, they should they showed some sort of animation of like all these bases in china
Basically like sending missiles over the over the fucking water and like hitting taiwan like some sort of threat simulation that they like posted
But that's the problem is like so you've got a if you bomb the hell out of them
Then you've taken over the island, but i mean you've just first of all it's all fucked up
It's all fucked up and then then they've always seen what what they did in uh in ukraine, right?
Like like russia invaded ukraine and and putin kind of thought meh
They're gonna and one they're gonna invite us in
That wasn't true
um and two
They're the the the europeans and americans. They won't do anything. They'll bitch and moan
They might put a couple sanctions, but they they're not going to really do anything and that's not what happened at all
so
Now china is watching that and china was was thinking to themselves
If that goes well, we'll invade taiwan because we'll get the same treatment
But now they are like, okay, if we invade taiwan and these guys
Put an embargo on us
And kind of quarantine us like in six months. We're starving to death. They can't feed themselves right so
That's a problem. That's what that guy zayhan says right peter zayn or whatever his name is. You know i'm talking about yeah
Listen to him. He's he's he's a smart dude. Yeah, and yeah, he also talks about the the gap in um
In um their workforce. There's a huge because of the one china policy
What's that i'm sorry one china policy the one child per family policy
So there's like for like 30 years or so
30 to yeah, i think is it 30 to 40 years?
No, it's about so i think it's i think it's almost 40 years so like 35 years, let's say
china basically they were concerned that
They were growing too fast and they were afraid that like the new generation was going to like eat them out of existence
Like we're not able to feed ourselves and we've got everybody's having kids and stuff
So they said you can every family can have one child. Yeah
So two things happened one the bulk of the people that did have children ended up having boys
They're drop it. They're giving away girls. They're you could you could listen in the 80s and 90s
um in 2000
You could if you wanted to adopt a a girl
Chinese a tiny little chinese girl
They were you could get one because they were giving them up left and right or they were aborting them or they were
Like abandoning them. So what happens is the bulk of
Children are male in china, right?
So it's like a huge like it's like two or two men for every one woman or three men for every one woman
So that's a problem and the second problem is
That in order to pay for the retirees you have to be able to replenish
Your workforce well, they have a huge gap in their workforce
So you don't have enough people to fill the jobs
And you don't have enough so that means that the economy is going to decline
And then those people that are paying in there's not enough money being generated to pay for the retirement of the older generation
So there's like this huge gap
so now
If you and I if i'm married i have to take care of
My parents your parents and probably some other parents like how do you how do you how do you do that?
It's a lot to come up with and these jobs
Aren't being filled because there's not enough people to fill the job. So the economy is going to shrink like
Peter uh zohan or whatever his name zane zane. Yeah, he's saying like listen 10 years from now
They're gonna be devastated. They're they're already seeing the effects 10 years. They'll be devastated 30 years from now
That whole country's fucking collapsing and they all know that it's the same the same thing's happening in russia
you know the united states
We have a slight dip but not a huge one
Keep in mind too like in world war two and stuff like we didn't lose as many people as everybody else did
And we came in our we came back our economy boomed other economies didn't boom for for decades
It took to recover. So if you're broke you don't have kids
You know we came back and there was baby boomers like people started getting jobs the economy boomed
They're having kids other around the world. That didn't happen
So there's this massive and here's a problem is that as that
As that workforce
Isn't there if you said, okay. Well, here's what we're gonna do. We're start promoting like in japan. They promote
You to have children. That's great
But those kids will be ready to work in 25 years or 20 years. What do you do? We need them now
Yeah
You know so it only gonna get worse
It's a thing too like the media all of a sudden like turned this whole they turn the whole narrative like china china china
Everything's got everyone's gotta be worried about china. There's this spy balloon this china spy balloon
So they're trying to like the media narrative everyone left and right like they they both united against china
Everyone's united against china right now. Did you see that video on tiktok where they have like
40 or 50 newscasters
All the same the same. Oh my it was like it was literally like they must have
Emailed all of them at the same time and all of them. They literally they're they don't even rewrite it. They they're reading it verbatim
What the government is telling them to say?
It was so air. It's like, oh, no, you're not you're not basically just an arm of the federal government
Michael i'm gonna text this to you
But yeah, anyway, so we're like we're like united against china right now
So like the u.s. The boat both the left and right are both like in line with
Going after china or like trying to paint china as the bad guy. Yeah, and that's
Some people speculate that's because they know that we're gonna have to get involved in taiwan
Yeah, definitely. I mean you don't want china taking over taiwan like like china's
They're very outspoken about basically they're just they want to be the world
Power like the united states is right now. They want to be they want to replace the united states
They want to replace the dollar
They want to replace the united states as being the yeah, but here's the thing everyone paint like everyone paints all these scary narratives like
Like they have all these they're way more technologically advanced than us. They can control our power grids
They can control all this stuff, but they're not they're not doing anything
I think because I think we are leaps and bounds ahead of china when it comes to any of this stuff
We're leaps and bounds ahead of anybody else in the world
We spent literally a trillion dollars just south of a trillion dollars last year on the military industrial complex
Like that's that's the next nine countries in line. That's more than all of them combined
Right, it's insane. Yeah, it's and if you look at some of like the fucking blue sky research
Some of these scientists are doing and like these companies like DARPA and like these
The stuff that they're fucking researching and like look at those drones that are off the fucking coast bro like that
There's there's gotta be there's no I I can't fathom
that the people that are like in the
The people who are running like the military industrial complex and the people that are in these organizations
Like these private military contractors
They're not worried about china like the stuff that they're doing and and testing and researching
Is gotta be did you see more than two decades ahead of china, right? But but I mean, you know to sit there and say
Oh, well, what do you know? We we do our own independent, you know investigations
We we we look into things. We don't get our marching orders from the federal government. Are you serious?
Like that was like like the u.s. Government sent out a massive email and then like the twitter files
Where they're like, oh, yeah, listen, we need this post taken down. We need this taken down
We need this done. We need to suppress this we need to and then they lied like the whole time
They were saying this is what you're doing. They're like, no, we're not no, we're not then elan must takes over and says, yeah
Yeah, you are and then they're like, oh, well, we're not gonna talk about that anymore
Right, it's like, you know, hey, we're we're gonna raid trump's office and we're gonna get him and we're gonna throw him in jail
Because he's holding these these papers these secret papers and then you find out the biden's got a bunch of and then they say, okay
Well, let's drop that. It's also it's also doing it's also so weird that like and just like the government aligns
They're all aligned left and right when it comes to war
They're locked up. They're they're in full agreement on war like let's let's spend all this money on war
Let's let's do it. We're gonna fucking go invade, uh, Ukraine and then we're gonna go fight russia
And then we're gonna go help taiwan right and oh if you don't support taiwan, who are you?
You're a racist. You're a sexist. You're a homophobe. Well, okay, so
So one there's a whole slew of republicans that don't want to give
Ukraine any money. They're like, we don't need to be involved in it. There are a huge slew of of republicans
But here's the problem
I mean, I don't I don't know their name, but I've seen the I've seen tapes where they're like
We're giving so much money to them and it's ridiculous and we could we we have people homeless people here and it's mostly republicans
But here's the problem
I think feel like they're and it looks like I'm I'm extremely conservative
But it's to me. It's like stop it, bro. You guys know damn well
You can't let putans just start invading countries
And I think they're only doing that because
Because biden's behind it like if trump wasn't in the office
You guys would be behind him. You know what I'm saying? There's some people
They just want to get votes right right and I'll bet you the moment if trump got back into office
I'll bet all of you guys would step in line saying yeah, well, let's send them tanks
Let's let what you are saying
You know and then of course the the democrats that are now saying let's send them this let's send them that would be like
No, we need to back off. You know someone was so stupid
Well, that also the us isn't helping negotiate a peace deal between them. They're they're actually like not like actively not trying to
Negotiate a peace deal because they want to spend more money and then they and then when
Eventually when the contracts to rebuild ukraine come in that's gonna those are going to be us contracts
Right. Well, they can't rebuild. Imagine if china negotiated a peace deal between the ukraine and russia
That would be terrible for us. First of all, Putin isn't gonna pull back and they're saying we're not gonna accept anything unless you pull back
Like you guys have to pull all your troops back
We get our entire country back and we can negotiate a peace and so they're they're at odds
They neither want to want to budge. Um, but the problem is once again
That you've got a problem because ukraine
Has so many fewer people even though ukraine is killing like it's for every
Every one ukrainian that dies like it's like three russians die
And you think man, they're kicking ass that they are kicking ass
but if you've got
if you have
let's say
You know two million troops and russia has well let's say let's say you have
200 000 troops and russia has
Three million troops like yeah, you're kicking ass. You guys are taking out a lot of their guys
Yeah, but it's only numbered. It's only 600. You're only going to be able to take out 600 000 before you're gone
And they still have four or 1.4 million
And putin doesn't care about throwing wave after wave of these guys
Because he can't lose because if he loses like you don't in russia, you don't typically retire to your dacha
in the mountains and and and do well
Like the new guy comes in and says
The coffers are empty. They've been robbing the country for the last 20 years
Go arrest this guy
And so now he ends up in prison or he ends up dead like he knows like he's only got one choice
I've got to stay in power as long as possible
That's a that's a scary situation
Yeah, and he's probably the richest man in the world
I mean, you know, they're probably very close to it. Yeah, because they always because those guys don't they don't really tell their wealth
Mm-hmm. So
And he's been robbing you know robbing the coffers for
20 is it 20 years 30
Is it 30 years? I think it has even a power for 30 years
2020 I think it's been like 20 25 years 25 years at least like yeah, I think it's 20 20 or 25 years, right?
It was early early 90s
Yeah, well the wall came down in 90. I think or 89 or 90
Yeah, it was 89 and then in 90 and then 91 all the competent countries basically the
Broke apart. Here's the thing about that area
The control of different parts of that area of the world have always been
Interchanging like throughout our history, right? And just because russia they only really wanted like their dom boss reason region
They didn't really I don't think they wanted all of Ukraine. Well, what they want
I don't think I think they want he wants all of those uh eastern
Soviet the former soviet block countries
I think he wants them all but the reason he wants them black or wants them back
This is what kills me is everybody says well, he wants them as a buffer zone
because there's so much flat land between like Moscow and and um
An eastern europe that you can basically just drive straight to you know, like there you can just drive straight there like there's no defense
There's no mountain regions or anything, but my problem with that is that
Is that like so I need I want to invade your country. So it's a buffer zone between us and like that's ridiculous
You don't get that's just what are you doing?
You don't get to invade my country because i'm a buffer zone like that that's your argument
Well, NATO is too close to us. Yes, but NATO is not invading. Well, we feel threatened
What i'm sorry about that, but maybe you feel threatened because you're invading other countries
It doesn't make sense
And you know, all these countries are ridiculous the same thing with the oh shishi ping like he's well, we do have it surrounded
We literally have them completely surrounded with NATO. We have launch pads and every single one of those countries
I agree, but do you see united states invading, uh, russia?
They're not why i'm saying if if he just are they creating a reason right now to invade russia
The russians invaded another country like if they invaded that country if they took ukraine they took ukraine
Do you think that who took ukraine russia if russia took ukraine?
Do you think that in
Do you think he would stop there or do you think in two years he he'd take something else?
He would probably take something else. Yeah, I think he just he just keep going because that's what bullies do like
You know and russians really only respect strength
Like i mean that's i that's just the bottom line. They only same thing with the chinese. They only respect
Strength and they think americans, you know, I just they I just don't think they have any respect for americans
They just think they were weak. They don't think we have the stomach for war
That's what the japanese did we don't right well that's well sometimes like look at the japanese
The japanese in world war two thought look here's the problem. They were arguing over oil
Well, you know gas and oil oil so they were arguing over oil with the united states
And united states have embargoed them japanese came and they were arguing and they realized they weren't getting anywhere because they had invaded china
so
They thought here's what we're gonna do
We're going to if we can take out the pacific fleet from the united states
So we're gonna go into hawaii. We're gonna pearl harbour take out their entire fleet if we can
They're gonna have such a disastrous
um
A disastrous uh defeat in pearl harbour
They'll negotiate
That's not what happened at all. No opposite, right? That's like osama bin laden saying thinking if I can
Crash the towers then the united states will pull back
They'll get they'll say hey, we don't have the stomach for this and pull back, but that's not what happens
Like the united states get they we get nuts and then we overreact
Like now we're invading two or three countries everybody. Yeah
So I I think that's don't you think it's crazy though that like the politicians and the government will spend trillions of dollars to like
To protect the freedom of other countries, but we can't pay
Elementary school teachers more than twenty thousand dollars a year. You've got you've got veterans that are sleeping on the streets
Yeah, you know, yeah, like it's it's you know, you're not funding the va
You don't get to vote on what the tax dollars are spent on like we don't get to vote like you're gonna get okay
Every single american you're gonna pay a thousand dollars to fund this war. We don't get to choose any of that shit
They fucking do it. Yeah, I mean, you know
I think you know the problem is I think that if you were if the american public had
The ability to help dictate what money was spent on one it'd be spent probably a lot better
But two we probably wouldn't have half the stuff we have
Because like what well, I think like like our infrastructure
Um, our infrastructure. Yeah, like roads like like there's tons, you know roads
There's our roads and airports are dog shit compared to other countries
Even trump said that I I understand that well, so did obama obama was like this is like it's bad what i'm saying is
That you have to say, okay, there are certain projects that you have to be funded right like we're gonna spend
Whatever, you know
Half a billion dollars to look into building this sub and they look into it and they do all this research
And they build it and it doesn't work out and they cancel the policy like they cancel the project and the subs
Cut up and sold for scrap
It's and people would be going nuts
But the truth is those are building blocks like dumping a bunch of money into nasa
Like spending all this money in nasa wise so that we can go to the moon which didn't do really any good
Other than to say hey look we're better than the soviets at this
Um, so people would say you guys spent like a you know, three trillion dollars over the course of five years
Like that's insane that was back on the 70s like that's that's insane
But I I kind of feel like those are important programs because you know, we got a bunch of stuff out of it
It helped in that advance a lot like it helped advance plastics rubbers. Um, it helped advance, um, you know
What is it? We got um opticals. We got suffer cameras for
um
what do you call it, uh
Contact lenses you got a computer chip like it it forced them to come up with all of these
Inventions that they never would have done, you know, did we lose a bunch of money?
Yeah, but the government really shouldn't be in the business of making money
Sometimes they have to spend money on stupid shit
Unfortunately, and I think that the the public wouldn't understand that
You know, that's my you know my takeoff. Let me keep in mind too the public
Knew how much money we're spending on the military. They'd be like, no, this is ridiculous. Let's just let's just we'll just
Hunker down
But what happens when they start invading then it's like, where's our military?
Well, you didn't want to spend any money on the military. Remember you guys wanted free health care
Well, we wanted to buy these new jets. We're spending a trillion. We're spending a trillion dollars a year on the military
Yes, let's just take a billion and spend it on something in the country like let let us get a little bit
I'm not asking for a lot. Hey, listen, you I'm dying for free health care. Like I hear you I hear you
but
You know, I also like the idea that I'm not really concerned about you know the um the chinese invading
You know, I'm not concerned. What do you think about if china and russia are teaming up right now?
What do you think? I don't really think they are teaming up because it's working for china's benefit
to
They're buying cheap cheap fuel
And I also don't really think that china is
planning on invading
um
Taiwan anytime soon like like they don't have like to get across that straight right that the waterway between the two
Bustamante said he thinks that they're going to evade before the new the presidential election
No, like they don't I don't I don't I can't I can't believe that first of all you need specialty class that guy's a that guy's a
geopolitical galaxy. I hear I hear you. I hear you. I mean I that's I know that's just stupid to go up against bustamante
But I'm saying that I was I've been watching a bunch of videos and so that makes me an expert
Um, like he's probably can call a general or something. They'd be like, yes, I have
Um, no, he's xca. Right. I know I know I'm the one that told you you've got to interview this guy. Who is he?
I don't know
Two weeks later bro. Did you call him? What who is this again?
What does he want? I don't know
Bugged me to call bustamante for like six months before I called him now. Look at that guy
Then he calls him bustamante blows up. He won't return a fucking text for me
Wait till you see what you said you come on my program. It's like it's he's working on something big right now
He's about to be worldwide
insane
Yeah, he's stepping on the backs of little people climbing the ladder. I get it. Oh, how dare you probably won't talk to you
He's not probably gonna talk to you in six months. He'll be like Danny Jones. God that sounds familiar
Oh
Um, but I I think look I think to move that many troops so petty
I was gonna say like, you know, like you need specialty
Crafts to move that many people to get them on the beaches
Of taiwan
Like they don't have they have those they don't they don't have enough of you've seen their new ships
They don't have enough listen as of two weeks ago
I watched a couple of videos where they were like this so they don't have them
They could build them fairly quickly, but they just don't have enough to move that many people and they're gonna lose a ton of people
Going across that straight
They're gonna it would be a bloodbath and here's the thing. Here's what I heard too and I heard this from what if russia helps them
Russia can't drive to Kiev
They can't drive there
Like they ran out of they ran out of fuel. They they they logistically they're they're not capable of even
Making a drive 150 miles outside their border. They're damn sure not going to go all the way to china and be able to help them
What are they gonna help them with they don't have landing crafts
They got bombs
I mean, yeah, they got some bombs. Do they still have any smart bombs left? They got planes. They got some planes
like look like we have let's say
um, whatever let's say
550 or however many, you know f 22 raptors, right and we have like f 35s and
And so we've got whatever let's say roughly five or six hundred of them
Like they have like their their their version of that. I forget the name of it. It's really cool looking
They've got like 80 or 100
Like that's it. That's the remember they keep they kept saying why aren't they using these in ukraine?
Their fear is they're gonna get them shot down
That they're just not as effective as everybody says like nothing about the russians worked out
All of these things that united states and everybody was saying how amazing the russians were
And how advanced their military was like look what happened. They got more nukes. Thank god. They haven't used a fucking nuke yet
That's if they even take off
Like who knows bro. Come on. I i'm i'm serious
Their trucks are breaking down
Their tires they don't rotate their tires on their trucks half the fucking
Tires were falling off. They couldn't even drive their trucks like this. They're not taking care of anything
They're they're right now. They're they're doing really you really think that their nukes probably don't work
You think there's a chance that they're they're of course. There's 30 40 years old 50 years old
This is 30 40 50 year old technology has been sitting at silo. Do you think they're keeping?
Do you think they haven't been doing tests though?
That's what i'm saying because they don't even take their trucks and rotate the tires
Like you're giving money to generals that are underpaid that are using it to spend it on other things
Putin thinks oh, we've all of our guys have night goggles
and um
Body armor like no, they don't I understand. No, no, they have to we gave them money for that. Yeah
They bought some of them some of the special troops might have them
You know, but the bulk of these guys are using like walkie-talkies from like radio shack
I mean, it's it's you know, you've seen that like why they should have crushed ukraine
They should have crushed them. Hmm. They didn't what happened your forces
10 times as big
The country borders your country you should have driven straight into the capital and crushed them and you didn't
Like that's not that's not a solid ally
Like that's not
How do they you know and as far as missiles like china doesn't need russian missiles china has a whole
they have a whole
Sector of their army just dedicated to missiles like we have like the the army navy air force marines
They've got another one which is just a missile division interesting
It's I mean it's and that's like because they're gonna
Well, probably bomb the shit out of taiwan if they can't take it really
I mean they obviously they can bomb just the beaches and strategically
but
I don't know
I just don't see them I don't see them invading
Because I just think that will there will be a huge embargo on everything chinese and the chinese will be
Yeah, they're massively starving death in six months to a year. They're you know, the the us is already doing these
They're doing these war game simulations, right where like all the people in the military and like government
They like play this game where they all play characters in this like
fictional war scenario between
uh
taiwan and china where china's invading taiwan and they like they're basically like creating this science fiction scenario on like
What do we do like you people play china you people play taiwan and we're gonna play the us, okay
Do what you do to invade like and we're gonna try to see if we can figure out the right move and see what happens
And they're like doing these crazy simulations and and almost and that was there was a uh a think tank in
uh, washington dc and this was like three months ago. They did all a bunch of simulations and they said like
taiwan if taiwan can
survive for three days
on their own
Which is long enough for us to move like battleships and get there to help them if we come to their aid
Then they can probably do like an 80% chance that they can stay off an invasion
But that's if the united states helps the united states doesn't help
Then ultimately they fall with anything. They said three months. I think they said they they can't last more than
Was it 60 or 90 days without the united states help?
And with the united states help there was like an 80% chance
I forget what the chance was but they had to be able to hold their own for like three days because for us to
You know, you got to load up the ships. You got to get there. You got
Have you ever seen the there's a graphic where it shows all of the military bases the u.s. Owns around the world
Oh, they're everywhere and you compare it to china even with the fucking uh, what's their um
Uh, what's their thing they have the road? What's it called the the belton road? Yeah
Yeah, the china's belton road initiative where they have like all these airports and and uh
Factories and all this thing all these things all around the world
But if you look up the u.s. Is based it's like 10 times that everywhere. It's insane
Yeah, but i mean that's also part of that
You know trillion dollars that we're spending to maintain all that money and pay all that and the other thing
I feel now the other thing is you gotta think like
How far does that trillion dollars go?
Compared to the ccp spending?
Like they're not paying they're not paying ten dollars for a light bulb
You know they're paying a few cents for a light bulb like you know our money doesn't go as far as theirs
So they are spending a lot of money. They do have a ton of troops a ton of people
Yeah, I just saw something recently where our the u.s. Army's having trouble recruiting people. Yeah
They they made a video. I saw this video on youtube. I forget who posted it, but it was uh
I think it was actually on fox news posted on youtube where they the u.s. Army posted a video of like a
Trans like a guy dressed like a woman
Like doing some sort of song and dance like for the u.s. Army trying to recruit people like young people
To join like trans people to join the army
So sad, bro
I was like, but those aren't the people you want to recruit to the u.s. Army
That should have like matt cox like shooting up some test at the gym jacket some steel
No, that's kaja. I was gonna say that's like the bud. That's like the bud light campaign
Let's alienate let's alienate everybody that drop that drinks our beer, right?
That's like what we thinking
you know like
And then her explanation the the head of marketing, you know, you know, it's been a bratty kind of a you know kind of um
Or not sorority a frat boy immature humor like
These are the people that buy your beer like what are you doing? Did you see that video of her? No?
Oh my god, she
Their head of marketing was a is a female and she she saw a picture of her came up and see a video
Yeah, she came up with the campaign
And then she was explaining
She was doubling down on it when it started going bad
Saying, you know, well, we needed to be more inclusive the brand is in decline. We need to be more inclusive
Well, there's inclusive and then there's alienating
And what you did was you included
Less than one percent of society
And you excluded 100 percent of your
Of the people that currently buy your point right right right like and you insult them and then you go on and insult them
They're like fraternity boys
in mature
You know bratty, it's like
What are you doing?
It's your customer. Yeah, that's your customer like don't insult your customer
I mean, I'm not a I'm not a marketing genius, but I'm sure
That you don't that's a bad move people that are buying your brain. I understand you want more. I get it
I love what kareel said about it. What did you remember what he said in that comment?
He's like beer fucking sucks. It's like drinking bread
Like you know, they're they're selling it like Costco now for like that like a case of beer for like a dollar
25 or a dollar 30 like it's insane. I hate beer. They're desperately trying to and
You know, they're desperately trying to get rid of that beer now like it's piled on a Costco
Like there's like it's like empty like like all the other beers are empty like cores and all these other ones like that
The shelves are empty with that and and there's a there's all the but light brands are still there
I also heard Costco's got their own brand of golf balls now
Multiple people have told me this
Yeah, and they're selling them for like super cheap. They've been doing it. Have they so
They ripped off the pro v1x and they had to change their golf ball
Because it was basically the same exact one as the title list
So Tyler it was like a quarter of the price. Lexi's brother Tyler was just saying that he was like trying to get up there
He wanted everybody goes Lexi to go up there and get him and she went up there to go get some balls
And I'm like shit for that cheap and like hell. Yeah, get me like three boxes of them
Yeah, and they were sold out the guy at Costco's like yeah, they come in and they're off the shelf same day
Yeah, that's Kirkloons and apparently um Costco's trying to come up with like a bunch of golf shit
They're gonna start making clubs and shit. They sell clubs already. Oh really? Yeah, Costco brand. No
I forget what brand they sell. I want to get a Costco set of clubs or maybe it's not Costco. Maybe it's maybe it's sam's
I think it's Costco
But they do you have they just talking about beer. Oh, yeah, I think that was over. Yeah, that's this is uh a dollar
You said well how much it was like a dollar 75 or dollar 25 like it was super
I just remember to pass up on that I just remember thinking my god like in the guy was like they're practically giving it away
Because they had just they was just stacked up. Isn't it so weird that we're the only aren't we
The only country that like has all this in fighting about like
people trying to be different genders
or like trying to train like
Because even like because when you even talk to people in europe
like people in france or germany or like some of these like
Left-leaning sort of like semi socialist countries, right? They're not super conservative, right? They're kind of they're kind of liberal
And they're a lot of young people that just look at it and they laugh they're like it's so weird what's going on in the u.s
When you when you hear people's perspectives who aren't in the u.s. Especially it's like they're like it's
I don't know it's not going on in any other countries
I mean it definitely not places like russia obviously because they're like their war-torn country that's been you know through
Crazy color they have they have real things to worry exactly. It's like it's so it's funny
If there was a war right now
Like a major war like a serious war not like we're sending off our current existing troops to go fight some war
That doesn't really affect the united states the continental united states actually got invaded like if suddenly
Yeah, exactly like all that shit would be out the window all of it. My fear is that the
that the youth
These are the people that would have to help fight that war
My god
could you imagine
If if if 1920 22 year old kids had to help fight a war right now the kids that are being raised like that
It's well, isn't it isn't it like they can't get their driver's licenses. Isn't it the same thing as
What happens to late stage empires?
Like like what happened in roam like collapse they gonna they start to wait exactly like shit starts happening
like they start looking for more things to
To battle against or they start looking when there's no real
External threats they start like eating themselves from the inside and looking for more problems
I mean I I that's kind of what I feel like like you don't have real problems
In your life
So you're manufacturing these issues that I have to call you he she or I have to
Or you know that you
You have want me to
Acknowledge that you're you know
Whatever binary or whatever the hell that is and you know, it's like like these are what you're arguing over like and they
And it's like it ties into media and politic and people they love it
People politicize it for votes people like aoc. They just fucking amplify it
Just so they can get more people to follow them and vote for them and like whatever happened to her
She's still out there chirping the republicans. She's off all her committees. She's like is she
She went nuts when they started pulling her
She was just off of a bunch of committees and she was just talking about some guy that happened and some guy in new york
I guess got killed there was like a there was like some homeless guy on a train in new york
And he was like threatening a bunch of people and then some like marine
I guess put him in a chokehold and killed him by accident
okay, and uh
And I guess he didn't get charged with murder. He was it was a homicide
But I guess like there was other people trying to restrain this guy who was going crazy
The guy put him in a chokehold and the guy suffocated he died
and um
So there's people writing there's people in the streets protesting about this like saying that that guy that marine should have gotten
Put in prison for murder and aoc is like out there tweeting like oh this guy's a fucking murderer like of course
Of course she is like they never hear anything about the transgender that ended up going in and killing all those kids
Um, you know a month ago. Oh, yeah, you don't hear anything about that. Yeah, that was everywhere when it happened
Wasn't it was for like well, we forgot about it. All right. Yeah, they already gone already
Yeah, like if that it that had just been a regular white kid
Mm-hmm if we'd be hearing about it right now
You'd still be hearing but you couldn't hear anything else about it, bro. That was a terrifying video
Did you watch the video of that the like the cops video footage from this? Oh, yeah going in going
They're walking through the classrooms like these little baby chairs like these little kids sit on
And they're like running through like clearing it and oh my god. Just just the mental
Mental cases that are out there
When do we become a type two or a type one? We're a type zero right now. When do we become a type one civilization?
Yeah, what is that type one civilization?
You gotta stop interviewing all these smart people. I can't come I haven't interviewed these smart people
type one civilization is when we become a global species
Or are we to start thinking of ourselves as earthlings?
Not just americans russians chinese and we stop becoming these territorial apes
Bombing each other and trying to invade and take more territory. I think we gotta get to another planet
Create a colony on another planet. Maybe that would help. Yeah, that would probably help, huh?
Yeah, elon no because it would still be it would still be us though
It would still be yeah, but then it's a whole planet of us
Yeah, but then you're you're saying you've got a so what are you saying because I'm saying like like progress like we progress
You're saying this earth
Be a type one. Yeah, when we do that. I think you become type one because the only way
I don't just have a one-world government a type one
Yes, you would a type one civilization is able to access all the energy available on its planet and store it
for
Consumption a type two civilization can directly consume the energy of a star like the sun
Finally a type three civilization is able to capture all the energy emitted by the gas well
We don't have to worry about that yet. That's way deeper than I've ever stayed like I we ain't even talking about people
No, so type one right, but type one is like we're already sort of
On our way to type one right like we have like we're we're we're regressing
We're becoming more global in a sense like we have the internet, right? We're all connected to the worldwide web
So that's that's like
Not all of us a slow step some countries aren't some countries aren't that phrased energy specifically though. Yeah
Yeah, they were talking about like so. Yeah, so like a nice resources
That's so a fear putting in so when you start becoming like type two civilization
Then you can like travel throughout the universe like right obviously that means you get off the planet and you can
Move interstellarly like between stars like between our between what we went there. I'm a fraudster between
Yeah, bro, haven't you had some scientists like is this a question you I'm not I'm really honestly not even uh really um
versed enough to
Talk about half the stuff we've already talked about
You can't take anything you said so far for truth exactly like I'm not that's why I'm interested because you have an outside perspective
I'm wondering like like I've been thinking about it like the type zero right now. We're type zero
We're fucking monkeys with with bombs. That's basically all we are just trying to make money like everything
Everyone who has gets any sort of power or money all they do is just try to get more
And they try to take it from other people
It's the basics of what you did right you fucking found a way to exploit a system
And you fucking kept gaming it and gaming it and gaming it until you eventually got caught and couldn't do it anymore
It is that's like what we're doing. We're not looking out for our own species. We're not trying to
to
Better ourselves as a species like Elon is
Do you I mean? Yeah, he's kind of
He's like to him. He's like he's dumping a ton of money into
A venture that honestly is he ever really going to get that money back to go to mars for what reason
Yeah to build a colony why because I think we should be an interplanetary that well
He's getting it from the gull of the money. He's getting paid by the government to do all this stuff, right?
Yeah, some no well some of it some of it. It's not he's using his own money
He's getting a lot of it. He is using his own money. It's funny too because not for not for
Um
Not for spacex though. He's got a lot of people like did you watch a documentary about him on netflix?
Yeah, he has a lot. He has a lot of he's getting recouped for a lot of money, right? Yeah for you know doing things like you know
Bringing up satellites and things like that
But is he making back all of his money and who knows if he would or not look look at what's his name?
Bezos like Bezos is not in getting any of the contracts like he goes up against elan loses loses loses
But he keeps dumping money into it because of course he's one of the richest man in the world
So he can like to me it's like if I had that kind of money where i'm not going to run out of it
I would probably do something absolutely ridiculous like that like like i'm not going to run out of money
Let's see if we could what I pretty much got everything
I mean elan's got so much money that he doesn't even care anymore like he's sleeping on people's couches and sleeping in like
Nothing matters anymore. Yeah, exactly like hey, let's drop one of these little these little rooms that i'm building here
These little cubicle things and drop it and what are those things that you know i'm talking about they bring them in on a
Yeah, yeah, what are they called they're called tiny house tiny houses. Yeah, they're kind of like tiny things
They are tiny houses. Yeah, so he's like he's got one of those so he can sleep there
Like he doesn't really you know the couple of houses didn't sleep in like prefabricated homes, right like he trailers
You've seen him like he's just he's a mess
They're built in factories there's dropped there and then you've got then you've got jeff bezos who
Has got like five yachts gotten around to how about him getting all buff getting him
He's all good jacked now. He's on test e-ball
He's running around with like like 21 year olds on his yacht. It's all zipped up
You know, it's so funny. It's so funny his transition from fucking nerd to like billionaire playboy
Did you ever see the interviews when he first started? Oh, he's a total geek bro
Same with elan too. You see like his early. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he was he was bald now
He's got a full fucking head of hair. Hey, I heard you just did a deal with some turkish hair loss company
No, I didn't do it. You need to hook me up bro. My corners are getting
Yikes that they got they have them in um
They have a clinic in uh, uh in mexico. So you don't even have to go to turkey. Oh really? Yeah, it's probably really good
It's not it's not fda regulated. So it's probably good
It's just surgery. It's the same surgery they do here. Oh, is it the same shit? Yeah
Oh, then why did you go to mexico? No because it's cheaper cheaper super cheap like the guy
Why would you go to mexico for everything right? Why would he come here and compete with american doctors is doing the same thing
He can go to mexico. I want the guy who did your hair
I want that guy just to fill in the corners like maybe a quarter inch
I don't know that guy. I want one more surgery
Really? Oh, we had a talk and everything but the problem is in the end
I'm gonna sort of go fund me
In the end i'm gonna have to come up with you know, you gotta come up with a few grand
I have to explain to my my probation officer that i'm going to get a hair
You know hair grafts. He's gonna be like, couldn't you maybe throw that towards your restitution?
How can we scam your an insurance company to paying for your hair?
I mean health insurance companies are the biggest fucking scam artists in the world
We gotta be able to get them back somehow. I don't have health insurance. Oh, you don't know. That's sad. I know
What if something happens?
Yeah, I got health insurance
I got health insurance. You you can't get here. You're they pieced you back together like
Jesus like an old car they rebuilt you like and every time I hear about all this stuff that was titanium, but it's like the scarecrow
You look fine though. You walk fall like I wouldn't think you were like, you know
In all the accidents and you're back and oh my god. He's fucked up
You shouldn't start the surgery made it better, man
But you seem fine. You don't did we already don't like sit weird or hunter. I got a weird walk. Do you? Yeah
My back's like my back's fucked up. Well, you seem fine, but
My equilibrium's like fucked up. Did we talk about last time you were here to be talking about your heart your heart rate?
I don't know. Yeah, I think we did. What's wrong with your equal equilibrium?
I don't know. It's all fucked up since some accidents and shit. Really?
I get like I ever get that ringing sound in your ears. Oh, yeah
If I drink like three cups of coffee, I get it a lot. I have it all the time. Yeah, I get it probably
At least one today. Really? I get it. Well, it just goes it goes like full fucking
You know the world's tuned out. Oh that loud. Yeah. Oh shit. I go to totally deaf
I have like mild tinnitus, but it's only for like 10 seconds
Like fades in and fades out
I got my blood work done. You might have uh, you might be getting directed energy. You might be like targeted
By the cia might be looking bro. I had a guy like Carson said it's aliens
Talking to me. Oh god. Listen. I got my blood work down the other day. Oh, yeah, let me tell what's your test levels
They were everything was like they give you a range like between, you know, your
Whatever is between should be between 200 and 250 right or whatever for what I'm saying in general just
This should be between 1200 and you know 1500 and mine would be like 1312
You know, this should be between 300 and 375 and mine's like, you know, 300 and you know
40 you're right in a dead center very I'm almost always right in the middle and then you got to test ostrom
And it was with the range is it's 200 to like 650 or something it's 250 no it's 250 to 1100
Okay, my mind's like 1560. Oh nice
And I was like you're pinned wow
And I and and you know I called Ryan root. He's like, that's fine. He's like, yeah, they don't care
He's that's good, bro. It's good. You feel good, right? I feel great. Yeah, that's good. It's good rock hard, baby
How's your labido? Yeah, it's uh, yeah
But I'm hungry all the time. What's your dose? What's your dose? I don't even know because Jess gives it to me
You don't know how many milligrams you're taking. No, how often you take it how often you shoot twice twice a week twice a week
But listen, I mean I'm I'm I'm I'm strong. God. I want to get back on it so bad like I'm I'm like
Like I can do
I can do like 30 dips. I do like four or five sets of 30 dips
I do
Wow pull-ups I do four or five sets of 30
Like I've never been able to do pull-ups like I knew pull-ups behind my head
I can do like this. Yeah. Oh easy easy. Wow. I don't mean like one. I mean we're talking about look at him
How many clubs can you do Shane?
Oh, my shoulder would pop out, bro. One pull-up kid one pull up one pull-ups do a lot of fucking shoulder out
Fuck dude
Told you I mean I could do other shit. I just can't do right or shit
Oh, listen, I didn't think I could never do like I've never been able to do like a uh, you know pull-up like
I need shoulder surgery bad
He needs to get the stem cells. I gotta go to Mexico. He needs the stemmes. I need stemmed up
You don't know stem cells that illegal
No stem cell states. No, it might not be federally right off FDA approved. It might not be FDA
I feel like there's lots of places broken gets them all the time. So it's got to be all right. Yeah, but he went
I think he went to um, Colombia
No, they go over there. Medellin. They got a medellin
No, the guy in his podcast said they go right over the border in california right down there. Oh teowana. Yeah
Yeah, that's one teowana. They're right to teowana. They fucking put you up in the five star hotel
Juicy up. They got they got saunas. They got hyperbaric oxygen chambers. They got a spa there
Then you just drive right back over the border. Oh, yeah, it's full treatments like eight grand for the week
They give you multiple sessions like you go in there on a monday start a go fund me for that
Bro, you already got the go fund me. Just ask ask the boss, man. Yeah, they ain't funding it
Hmm
I feel like I want to do anything. Are you just on the test or what else? No, I also take a um
I take an estrogen blocker. Oh you take that thing too. Yeah
Only because like so you did your blood work and your estrogen was too high
No, no, it's just because when I started taking the test like my
One of my oh your gyno
Yeah, my well and you know keep in mind too like they're gone like the glands are gone. Are you got them removed?
Yeah, I had two surgeries one. They cut them in half. It started growing back. When?
Oh, this is when I was younger 20 20 something. Oh, yeah, because you said you were taking that shit when you were young
Right, so then
They removed them. So then they just removed them
But still something must still be in there because I started getting this a little bit of a pain
In my in one of my breasts, right like right. I hate to say breasts because
My mask but but it's just started kind of hurting a little bit, right? Like I was like that fucking hurts. I heard so I
talked to a ryan and
um, we ended up getting he said look just take like this as you need it like take like half a tablet
Every time so I took half a tablet. Boom. It's gone
And other than that I feel great other than the fact that I'm hungry all the time, but you look phenomenal. I you don't look fat
I you look the only reason I feel fat walking here like a fucking bulldog
Like a little bulldog, dude
You know the only reason I I feel fat because I weigh like 180 pounds and I'm like this is you weigh 180
Damn, yeah, you weigh the same. Yeah, I weigh like a little over 180
Like I was typically like I want to be like 170. I feel like I need to lose like 10 pounds
How long should I wait till I go back till I go on the test? I don't know why you got off it
Like what was the reason I was never does anything more than like fucking one week
I did it. I did it for a month and I felt just like the best way I can describe it is I felt
Over stimulated all the time. Well, then take a lower dose. I did
I did I started I dosed down and then I started doing it water it down. I started doing
The injections every other day just like I split it into threes, right? So I did it three times a week
And I still felt like I felt a little bit less over stimulated
But then look less. So I did my blood work pre doing the test Ostrone. Were you working out?
Yeah, I was always working out. Okay. So I did my blood work pre test Ostrone and my test level was like
730 right in the middle
So I got in the middle of the month when I was doing the test Ostrone
I did my blood work again, and it was like
640
What why would be I stopped right? I stopped the end of
November makes sense. I know I stopped the end of November test
And then I got my blood work done again end of January
I'm back up to 750
How did you never where you go? How'd you never get out the same place? Everybody goes bro
How did you go into that lady with those fake machines? No, what's her name?
Literally the blood work I got I got the they're just typing them up
I got literally like the most comprehensive blood panel that you money can buy
They were the lady had the needle in my arm and she you know, they fill up those vials
She had like a fucking grocery bag full of those. They were falling on the ground everywhere
I'm like helping her pick them up. She had like 30 of them
It was insane that she did they did like they tested everything like literally everything you could possibly have
And I don't know for some reason it was lower. I wish I had money to burn
I'm like, what's the cheapest one? I need to test Ostrone. Can I just get that? No. Sorry. It's a whole panel. Okay. Well, that's all I need them
Yeah, like
Listen, I went I might have had like there's different esters like there's sipeonate
Enanthate there's like three different esters you can take one that the sipeonate lasts the longest the
That's what I'm thinking and they ate has a shorter half life
Um, so I don't know I gotta I don't I want to try it again, but I want to figure out
I'm like at 750 right now. So I don't want to like there's really no need
I mean, I mean, that's where you're basically supposed to be. Yeah, all right
Like that's when I was like probably where I am normally. I mean this thing was off the charts
I don't know what's happening
But when I first did it like the first red line the first injection I did feel bad for her
The first injection I did I was like
I've already
She's like what? Oh, she's like enough already. I'm on her down. I go, you know, she's all like hey, hey, hey
Fucking horned up bulldogs walking around with one of those five gallon paint sticks, you know, bow stop it
sit
Matt's humping legs in the kitchen
That's hilarious
But yeah, no, that's why I got off
But I want to try it again. I'm like, I really want to try it again. So I think I'm gonna try it again
You know, what's funny? I wonder what would happen to bozak because you know, he's super hyper
Sensitive to any type of
Any type of drug like you'd look at him to I am too you look at him
You'd think he's taking he would he takes drugs like he doesn't listen. He doesn't drink. He doesn't take drugs
He can't drink coffee. He can't take aspirin
Like hey two fucking 25 250 milligram gummies the first time he came in here. Listen. No weeds a different now weeds different
He's big on he does a lot of weed
He has no problem with weed, but he has a major problem with
Any kind of medication like anything I'm like that too. Um
So yeah, he couldn't he couldn't take anything. It's called a hyper responder. It's horrible like it's horrible
Because you can't take anything for anything like if it's good if you're addicted to pills because then you save money
Yeah, I guess so but if you need medication, it's not good
Nothing he said if you're addicted to pill it's pills. It's good because you know, you save money because you can't take them
It's like it doesn't I don't know where that came from. But I mean, what if you need medication?
He can't take it. Yeah, you just take a smaller dose. You just break the thing in a quarter
He does he takes like he'll take little like he'll take he'll have like a pull his back or something
And he's and he's like he takes ib pro for it and he's he gets all like feel sick and he really yeah
It's like it's ib pro for it. He's like I brought I'm like, how much did you take?
He's like I broke a pill in half. He's like, what do you mean?
Right like I barely took any of it and I'm like, well, that's not gonna do anything
I got a little pamp up in a thousand ib pro. Oh, that was a milligram. Wait till you my age
I wake up. That's just part of my routine. I woke up to take fucking three of three 200 milligrams
This guy got COVID. He's fucking chewing up Vicodin, bro
That'll help right
Two days later, I was straight. That's the secret left it off. Fuck ivermectin, bro
It's the Vicodin that my grandma came over brought over 800 milligram ib pro fence of Vicodin
Fuck it's so so COVID some cough syrup. I'm laying on the couch. She brings over a ziploc bag of pills and some cough syrup
Here Shane take this
I was straight two days later slept it off sweated out. Fuck
I had COVID again. I've had it twice really just had it three times. Damn
I got it when I went to I went to um pod fest that we both got it. Just and I both got it really pod fest geeks
Got me. I'll shake it hands and you know, I'll cope it up. Yeah
Hmm. Yeah
Did I tell you what happened? I gave a speech
Did I tell you about my speech? No, listen, so I gave a I had to give a talk basically it was
it was something like
60,000 subscribers like in
Two years or something. I forget what the name of the speech was like how do you like whatever, you know like
And I basically got up and just said look, you know, you you have to I just gave like five tips, right?
Now here's what happened though
So there's a room and I remember thinking like these guys are going on this app
And they're trying to get people to go to their their little show, right? I never did that
I go to the show I go to the thing pod fest. It's okay. It was five days. It honestly could have been two so
You say everything the first day and then maybe you want to loop around again
But after that so then they have these rooms that are broke up. It is very professional
Like it's a super cool kind of thing for two days. So
Then they have
Breakout rooms where you go and you talk sometimes they have big ones. There's 500 people there sometimes is a small one
There's 150 people
So i'm thinking nobody's gonna be at my my thing. I never tried to promote it. I never tried to do anything
I just told the guy that runs the place chris. I told him i'll do it. He said okay
So I go to do it chris. Yeah chris chris chris musta whatever his name is. Yeah chris k so I go
And i'm also was on a panel so I go and I get there and i'm like
Like this place like it's packed the room is packed
And somebody goes and they do a talk and that's great. They do their talk more people are kind of coming in
Um, the place is packed this guy does a talk and he sits down no big deal
And then this other chick gets up and she does a talk and listen like halfway through the talk
I remember looking over at jess like
This is the worst chick to follow up
This chick's been doing this for five years. She's polished
I mean, I was like wow and jess was like, yeah, she's good. She's good
And it was thanks for the support. Right. It was just like wow
So then she's done as soon as she's done
I'm thinking
Okay, great. So now I get up to do mine
And she and as I'm getting up to do mine and she says, okay, she's got the mic
She kind of stops and she says listen
If anybody else wants to talk about this or needs some help or needs this or new just blah blah blah
She said I'll be out in the hallway. Come on out in the hallway
Half more than that 90 of the room gets up and walks in the hallway. There's like six guys left
And then you went and did your and then I went and did my thing. So obviously I was fine because there's only a few people
But but I sat there. I thought
Wow
Like that like I would never do that to somebody. Yeah, that's kind of it was real like I wanted to go to her and say
The fuck did you just do? Yeah, did you see what just happened?
Like did you see what you like would you want that done to you? Yeah, that was fucked up. It was just such, you know
If it was anybody but me like if I was in the crowd like I probably would have been like
Like, oh my god, that was horrible
But I was like I was like, wow, well, I'm not nervous now
Because there's nobody here. So she should have thanked her. Yeah, there were so there's maybe whatever let's say 15 or 20 people
So I did my little speech whatever it was fine
Um, but yeah, I got sick like the next day when I got home. I was all by the time we got home that night. I was feeling
achy the next day
Super achy and so was Jeff. We both super sick that night and I was supposed to go to Ian bick
Fly up to see to be interviewed by Ian bick. Do you know who he is?
I think so. I think you sent me something about him
Yeah, I supposed to go up there and I had to cancel the last minute and I've I still haven't really been able to go up there
Since then and so now when people say hey, you should be on matt cox's podcast to Ian bick. He says
Fuck that guy. He canceled on me. Really and I'm like I really says fuck that. No, I don't see nothing real
Say fuck that guy. He said no, he kind of almost does he goes he's he basically is like
He says like screw that man the hell with that guy. He canceled on me
I had coveted
Like I had coveted. I even texted him. Uh, did he get his flight reimbursed?
Um, no, he said he he said he just lost it. I told him I said look I'll pay for my own flight and fly up
I get it and he came back and I and I told him I said hey quit telling people
That I canceled on you. I had coveted. He's like, yeah, I get it
But you said you'd be up here within a month and it's been a it's been like two months and I haven't heard from you since
Okay, granted. That's my fault
But you know, come on, bro. Like I'm gonna get up there. Give me give me a minute
First of all, you invited me to fly up to your show. Do you know how many needles you gotta bring with me on the plane?
Yeah, you invited me to fly up to your to do your podcast
And you have like three thousand at that time. You think he had like five thousand subscribers
I think he's got like 30 or so. He'll probably be at a hundred thousand before i'm at a hundred thousand
Like he's
He's listen. He's he's booming people like him bro. When is tucker gonna start a podcast on youtube?
I don't think he can he would take it down. He was immediately built for the internet, bro
Have you watched his full send podcast? No. Oh my god. It is so fucking hilarious, dude
He is so
Funny when he's able to speak freely and he's not just like reading off a teleprompter
I saw a video on line where he was fishing in central park
Central Tucker was yeah in new york. Yeah
really
Yeah, some guy comes up and like he's like turns around the guy's like
Uh, you're tucker carlson. Are you supposed to be fishing? He goes. Yeah, you can fish and he's and he's like
Totally cool. The guy starts talking to the guy's like
No, don't you need a license? He's like no people don't know that but you don't need a license
He was a good fish any good. He said not really
And he was yeah, he's a big hunter and fisher and he likes to hunt and fish a lot
But he oh, he likes to uh, he likes to hunt. He's like a big bird hunting guy. Is he yeah
My god, he's already got 62 thousand subscribers
What do you bench in how much do you bench? No, we use um, you don't do bench?
Yeah, but but it's on a machine. Oh you fucking like I don't actually use the bar how much how much do you and the machine?
like it's it's like
250 to 6 like it's it's it's almost the whole rack
And I and I'm not doing by the way. I'm not like barely going down like I'm going deep all the way down like all the way
Yeah, I don't do all that but yeah, so and I started like 225
I'll do like 225 then it goes like 245 then it goes like 255 and then it does goes like whatever 15 or 20
One where you sit up the one where you're sitting up and you go like that. Is that the one you're talking about?
I do a slight
Incline incline. Yeah, so so it's not quite so I'm not laying flat. I'm you know, yeah, I like doing the incline too
So, you know that way you don't build like the the bitch tits down there. You build up the top
No, I mean I do that. I do flies on a machine. You come on. I'm working with working out with Jess
And then we just pretty jacked. She is we do we do dips. She's strong as fuck all she looks like it
And the worst thing is like I'm I'm my upper back strength at least double everything she does and yet when we wrestle
I can't pin her
It's it's it's I don't I now I just don't even fuck with her anymore. It's it's gotten to the point where it's so embarrassing
I mean it's embarrassing. It's like literally like I'm I'm like I don't understand like I'm I'm
And I'm like I'm sitting there going I don't understand
Like I'm benching double what you're benching more than double and I can't get you off of me and she's poor
It's ridiculous. Yeah, she's got my wife. She's got a retard shrink. She does
She does
I'm glad you whispered that. I hate to say that. Hopefully the algorithm didn't hear it. I'm sorry. I hate to say that
I mean, I know I know what it but it is what it is like and I went to a school with
Kids with special needs like I know it's a serious. It's just real. It's real
We had a guy named Rodney who had Down syndrome strongest. Fuck
Yeah, who was Rodney? I don't know. He was scary though
He was he would chase you around like John. Oh, yeah
Yeah, that is crazy how they are strong. Yeah, they are really fucking strong
For no reason. Yeah, it's ridiculous
And Jess is like that. It's she's strong. It's is it all right here? You okay?
I don't know I've drank two cups of coffee
This is this is literally probably my fifth
Sixth couple coffee. This is your first time in here since we got the new ac
I'm actually kind of cold. You know, are you? Yeah
We don't we don't hear a lot of talking. I'm doing a lot of talking
We don't we don't have that loud that found that fan going anymore right quieter now
And it's I think it's a lot cooler now. This looks like catching a draft right here. You like that?
Yeah, I that's that was the last time I saw it. I'm getting ready to get a new studio
We're here or in someplace else not in this building but somewhere around here and then we get one in uh
Really big shot. Yeah
Yeah
We're in a big warehouse
Really? Mm-hmm fantasy factory fantasy factory bud on indian rocks beach
Seriously, mm-hmm. What you know why why like it bothers me until you see it and I like that jealousy feeling
How would you be jealous because I feel like I'm I'm above that
But I'm not because because I'm running my whole thing out of my out of my living room
I'm running this whole listen people show up. No, it's fine. We'll show up and they're like this
They're like, hey, what's uh, they look around like so does he so does lex freedman. He doesn't his fucking kitchen
I I know I know but oh, you know who I had on the other day. Um
Uh, uh brett johnson
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I had him on here a while ago. Yeah, I've this is second time. I've I've uh had him on
Oh, really? He's great
Yeah, he is good. Yeah, we were both both on the secret services most wanted list
Yeah, we both go back and forth back and forth. Oh, I bet that's fascinating who you guys saw it's it's uh, hey
What's up with russini you told the story about him when he's when is he getting out of prison?
Didn't you ask me that the other day? Yeah, but we didn't we're on air now. So, um
He so I mean literally he should be in a halfway house right now. The problem is the halfway houses are packed
and so he's
They've there's just nowhere for him to go like he should be home
He should be in a halfway house or on an ankle monitor right now
Like he's literally telling his case manager like have me go. I'll immediately go on a on a you know
I'll immediately go home like my home's already been approved like I in
He probably will not be in a halfway house for six months and even then he may only get a month or two
Yeah, you know basically he'd be out of prison. Where's he gonna move? Where's he gonna be?
um
the halfway house like
His mom is somewhere up. I want to say in the panhandle
Area, but they tried to get him in a halfway house everywhere like like ocala or lando tampa
They're just all fully everything place in florida's for full. It's packed with people that did artisans and did full
Yeah, well in the halfway houses too. That's so wild
You know, but great guy. I can't wait to listen. Listen russini
Do you remember the other day when you not the other day? It was probably a year or so ago
You had a guy sit down and start and was talking about the cartel
usually that
Pete can tell you the
origin
of every single cartel
how they've
Turned it the different factions
Why they become different became different factions the murders and double crosses he can tell you
It's insane. How much he knows he could sit here
For six hours straight and tell you just about everything. How does he know about it? He just you know, he's got watch narcos
He's probably got 180 iq and really. Oh, it's insane. It's insane. Listen when I was doing his story
This was the kind of stuff he would do
It's funny too because as much as I despise devaroli. He was super. He was he was much like this only pete's likable
um
And pete would go
You know, I would say okay. Well, when did this happen and he'd go that um, let me think that was uh, uh, he said, okay, so
It would have been that was that was tuesday the 12th
and it go
What yeah, june. It was a tuesday. It was uh on the 12th of june
You know 1992 and you'd be like
Why the rain man like how do you know that he'd go?
Well, because I remember so-and-so's birthday was on this
This date and I remember we went we went to this concert
And it was two days after that concert and like he literally has this whole and he could do it
All the time with everything and if you went back and double checked
Damn if he wasn't right. Really it was it's bizarre and he'll keep in mind too. He's he's from brazil
Right, so he's brazilian. He speaks spanish. He speaks portuguese
So he'll you know, listen, I can't say spanish words
Like he's or portuguese and he or french or anything these
pronunciation is perfect. He
Just you know, he's one of those people that I talked to that I feel like you know
You know, you feel like you're drooling when you're talking to him. You're like god like this is ridiculous and I feel like he's
Patiently talking to me like
Right, he's like he's like he's like he's just putting up with me. Yes
He just has like an incredible sense of fucking time where he can put timestamps on anything that happened on different
Different things. It's not just that. It's not just that like he he like he'll talk to you about quantum physics
And and he'll remember names. I can't remember names for anything
He'll remember the names the pronunciations when the book came out how this book it was I remember he was it was like
1,100 pages and this and this and this and there's a chapter
I think it's chapter 13 chapter 13 was about and you're like, are you insane?
He'll tell you it listen
I'm gonna get him first
I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna completely just just spend like two weeks with them and get as much information out of him as possible
And then you can have him on here. He'll tell you I want him on here with you
I mean, that's fine, but he'll tell you about his case. It'll take eight hours. He knows every single date
He has every single document. It's insane
It's three harder. It's insane
He also is extremely wordy
Like he has no concept. He reads what one book a day in prison. How many books do you have?
I don't I don't know a lot and I mean not normal books
These are like typically if I get a book I can give it to four other inmates
He gets a book and you might as well just throw it away. Nobody else is reading that shit
Like Pete it's it's a it's a book on mathematics. I know there's a whole chapter on the on on the comma
What like what are you what? Yeah, there's a whole
It's it's it's just it's nuts. So is he autistic?
He is mildly his I always say he's got a touch of asperger syndrome
And you don't notice like you notice it when you first meet him
But then as you get to know him you don't really notice it
But when somebody else comes over you start to notice it again
Like with me he talks to me. He looks me in the eye. He has we have a conversation. We're open
He's very comfortable with me but somebody else comes over and he immediately
Hey, how you doing and takes like four steps back like
And you're like what's going on like like you don't notice it because we we could hang out all the time
And then somebody else would come in and he'd do it and I'd be like
Why is he in prison again short version short version is uh the the charge is basically
um conspiracy to murder two federal informants
Uh in his two fbi federal informants
That were both murdered
Then supposedly he he ordered the murders. He ordered their murders in the disposal of their bodies
And he'll he'll tell you look. Yeah, I I didn't order the murders, but I did dispose of the bodies
He's like, but you know
I didn't kill him. I just threw the bodies in the dumpster. Exactly. That's exactly what it was
Um, one of the bodies they found in the dumpster the other one they didn't
And he's like, you know, what was I gonna do? I came home the guy's dead
He can't just leave him the body. We were it was a meth lab. I can't call the police
The story was fucking crazy. Yeah, it's not. What's the name you wrote? Did you write a story about that? Yeah
Devil exposed devil exposed. I actually wrote
I wrote so I have an abridged version
And then I have a full book
The full book is basically it's like a true crime book the abridged version
Is really more about the crux of the case
How they built the case against them and they're actually both really good
The problem like I said that he has no concept of brevity at all
he
he'll
It'll take him
Two minutes to explain something that really would have taken about 20 seconds to explain. He's just he's very wordy
He's very detail oriented. He thinks everything is important in the story. He can't cut to the chase
So but his research is
Fucking amazing. The problem is you have to read 2000 words to end up saying, okay, here's 2000 words. I'm gonna use
200 of them and he's oh, are you serious? What about this? What about that? It's irrelevant to the story peak
I'm sorry. I
It's all upset all upset
And then I'll I'll tell him I'll send the email and I'll say I'll be like bro. Thank you so much. This was great
It was really informative
I chopped it down to two paragraphs and and I'll I'll say you really need to work on not sending so much information
You know, damn. Well, I don't need to know every single thing about that person to introduce them in when they're only going to be
In one scene
So what exactly is he helping you with in prison?
The book um the book it's called we call it the company. It's about the um the chip heist all those chip heists. Yes
He's doing the research and listen
from inside prison
So during the pandemic they shut down the archives because these are old like they're all archive, right? Like there's tons of
Articles, but you can't get them on the internet. They were back in the late late 80s and 90s
so
And then all even a lot of the court documents are on the archives
They're not on updated on the system like right now something 10 years ago
You can go pull everything on my case on pacer, but this is back in the 80s and 90s. These are this is on micro fish. Yeah, so
he um
We we couldn't get into archives
so
Pete happened to be talking to his cousin
who knew a girl
That was actually dating a federal judge
So he got to her
Got to the federal judge explained that he was doing research on this case
And the archives was closed
But he really needed it the federal judge calls down the people from the archives
And asks them to go and pull the file and boom we get a fucking chunk of everything
We went I I end up having to pay for I think I paid like whatever it was $600 or something for the research
To get the research so now he's got all the stuff and he's recent and he researched everything
Read all the trial transcripts read everything went through and highlighted it. He ordered
um
tons of um
newspaper articles on archives
I end up having to join some archive system to pull articles and send those to him and then he just he's a machine
He reads it and comes up with the information that you need
But it's a super interesting story
Do you pay him?
No
Wow, I've offered to put money on his books do this and that but keep in mind. He's got a mom is it's
It's Pete and his mom. That's really and in some cousins. So that's really all there is left
Pete's dad died when he was in prison. You know and and honestly, you know, um, how long has he been in? Oh, Jesus
Almost
Over 25 years
How old is he now?
He's exactly my age
Wow, we're both 53. I think our birthdays are
I think he's his birthday is
A few days before mine. Maybe a week. Wow
I want to say maybe he's june 5th or so. I don't know. I could look it up. That's crazy, man
Well, matt cox has been enlightening. How long how long has this been? Uh, uh, two two and a half hours
Oh, yeah
435 30 two and a half hours. Yeah, wow
Thanks again. Well, listen
I uh
I was gonna say sell it
Thank you for watching the video and if you like the video do me a favor and hit the subscribe button
Hit the bell so you get notified of videos just like this. Leave us a comment in the comment section
We'll respond as quickly and promptly as possible try and respond to most of those videos or most of the comments
If you want to get in touch with us go into the
Description box dany's email will be there. My email will be there and also we'll leave the link to my channel
Which is amazing. Although it is a grind and it's not blowing up quite like concrete
Um, but it's it's it's all true crime, uh stories and it's a lot of fun and super interesting
so I appreciate you guys watching share the video and
Hit the uh hit the hit the like button and subscribe. See you
See you. See you
