We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world.
Today my guest is Mark Levinson.
Mark is a trained particle physicist
who got his PhD from the University of California, Berkeley.
Before going to Hollywood is a sound editor
on films like The English Patient,
The Talented Mr. Ripley,
The Movie Seven,
and House of Cards.
On this podcast we talked about
his documentary Particle Fever
where Mark tells a story
of the experimental discovery of the Higgs Boson.
The film covers the scientific process
and the scientists behind the research
with the Large Hadron Collider,
which is the a billion dollar piece of machinery
in Switzerland that basically collides
and smashes atoms together and shit like that.
The film covers the scientific process
and the actual scientists behind the research
and it documents the first time
they discovered the Higgs Boson.
So without further ado,
please welcome the amazing Mark Levinson.
Thanks for coming on here, man, I really appreciate it.
Good, well, I'm looking forward to it.
The very last line of the Particle Fever documentary
where he says the most important things,
the things that make us human
are the things that we don't depend on for survival.
The things that humans don't need to do
are the things that are most important.
Yes.
That was a very profound statement he made there.
Yeah, you know, I mean, the thing is,
I mean, I've always been interested
in the overlap between art and science.
Sorry about that.
That's okay.
Let's see if I can just turn this off.
You know, I mean, for me,
you know, as somebody who started in the 19th century,
started in the field of science, really,
and, you know, getting my doctorate in physics
and then moved into more of the arts with filmmaking,
I never really made that distinction, you know, people,
I mean, people always ask about that,
oh, how did you make that transition?
And in fact, it was something that I wasn't even aware of
as a big transition.
I mean, obviously my day-to-day activities
in some sense it was,
but it's not as if I felt like I have this part of my brain
that is doing science and this part of my brain
that's trying to do film.
I mean, they're both creative
and I think they're both important.
And so what Savas says there,
I think is reflective also
of both frontier level scientific research and the arts.
I mean, that these things that really distinguishes
humans, these abstract things that we pursue,
I mean, why do we try to understand the universe?
As I think he also says in the film,
it's not something that's going to,
for the most part, influence our day-to-day life
or have a lot of practical applications,
but we need to do this and the same thing about art.
I mean, you could say, you know,
for a lot of people would question,
what is the usefulness of this?
Why do we do this?
And the answer is that it's just,
it's something that it's what makes us human.
I mean, Fabiola talks about this too in the film.
You know, she has the Dante quote, you know,
that this is the thing that distinguishes us
from beasts or animals that they don't paint
and write literature and try to understand
where they came from.
So I was very happy that Savas came up with this.
I mean, it was something I was interested in,
but I didn't want to, you know, just feed them the lines
and Savas, Fabiola, Nima, I mean,
all of them, you know, really felt the same kinship
to artists and what they do.
What was it that brought you to make the decision
that you wanted to go dive into this world,
into the lives of these people
who are creating this billion dollar machine
that is its purpose is to just smash atomic particles
into each other?
How did this journey start for you to create this thing?
Well, I mean, the journey actually started in college
when I got interested in physics.
And so I originally was going to college,
I thought I was gonna be an MD.
And so I actually was in a program,
it was a special program that was a combined MD-PhD program.
And I thought I'd get an MD and I thought I'd study,
and then I'd do research and I'd sort of do a combination.
But it was sort of the quintessential story
of an incredible professor at college
who was this brilliant physics teacher.
And I decided to take the physics major physics course
because also I just sort of wanted to be away
from the pre-med rush
where most of the pre-med people are just taking physics
because they have a requirement.
And I was interested in it.
So I thought, okay, I'll take the physics major's one.
I was good in math and science.
And the guy walked in the first day
and he picks up this huge book and he says,
this is the book that tosses it across the room.
He says, but we're not gonna care about books,
we're interested in learning how things work
and learning how the enormous works.
And I thought, wow, sign me up.
Especially in contrast to a lot of the pre-med stuff
where it was really about memorization
and learning things like that.
And I think it was, I was just really fascinated
by the search for fundamental truth and understanding.
I mean, that's what I was interested in physics.
And I really got drawn to the most theoretical physics.
And the most fundamental physics.
And so particle physics is, in a sense,
it's the ultimate physics.
I mean, everything ultimately comes down
to what are the fundamental particles of the universe
and what are the forces and how do they interact?
And essentially everything comes from that.
And that was very appealing to me.
I mean, to just, to try to understand,
just if you wanna understand the universe,
that's the most fundamental level that you can understand it.
And so that took me through college
and through graduate school.
So it was, you know, I was studying this field,
but at the university, I did begin to see other,
you know, the other things.
I was sort of awakened to film and to literature.
And I think it was particularly,
actually a lot of Eastern European cinema that I saw
that was very complex, intellectually challenging
and trying to understand the universe also,
but, you know, from a more humanistic perspective.
And so that's the other thing is I saw,
I suddenly, I saw film as another way
of trying to understand the universe.
And, you know, physics, you were looking at it
from the, you know, aspects of the physical components
like particles and forces.
But film, I saw as a way to also examine,
you know, how the universe works from a human perspective.
And there's a number of parallels, I think,
but between the two, that for me,
a script in some sense is like a theory.
A film, for me, you know, is something
that is a representative of something of the world,
some truth that is in a compressed form.
I mean, at least for me, you know, the greatest films are.
They're saying something.
They contain some sort of truth in a compressed form,
which is like a theory in physics, actually,
that, you know, you look for a theory
that is a simplification of things,
but is also representative of much broader things.
And, you know, you look for,
you look for, again, a sort of a simplification
and essence of things that has a broader significance.
And even in process, in a certain way,
in science, you look at,
you have a theory of something
about how the universe works.
And in film, you know, you start out with a script,
some idea of something that you're trying to investigate.
And then in physics, you go off
and you do an experiment to test it.
And you are, you know,
suddenly the experiments are often really huge
and expensive and you hope you get something useful.
And in film, you go off and you make the film.
And again, it's suddenly very different
from the more solitary process of writing
or coming up in the theory, but you go out,
you have a crew, you, you know,
do this incredible crazy thing
and you hope you get something useful.
You hope you get some useful data.
And then in physics, you go back
with the results to your theory and you say,
oh, okay, what is the, what it really is?
What is the real world like?
And in film, you know, you get the footage
back into the edit room and you sort of say,
oh, that's what my film is about.
You know, it may be very different.
So there's certain parallels in that regard actually too,
in terms of the steps.
So when I finished, when I got my PhD,
I really did get interested in exploring this other way
of looking at the world from the humanistic perspective.
And I actually went into narrative film.
I mean, what I described is really the path
for a narrative feature where you have a script
and then you shoot and you go to the edit room.
And I actually had nothing to do with science.
I mean, so my foray into film for many years
was in the narrative world.
I wrote a script about former Russian dissonant artists
dealing with all the changes after Glasnas.
Again, it was, I was so fascinated by art and artists
and, you know, what they were doing.
And so I worked in that field.
I wanted to do more writing and directing.
And I began to specialize in post-production
and working with actors to redo lines and to change lines
and, you know, something that's called ADR, right, looping.
And then alternately working on my own things.
But I was always thinking that I wanted to do something
that, you know, tried to perhaps connected the strands of my life.
And I was thinking about a script, possibly writing
a script that, you know, looked at sort of science
in a very realistic way.
I mean, I didn't feel and still don't feel
that there's a lot of fiction films that deal with science,
you know, in a very authentic way.
And so I was thinking about that.
And then I heard about this physicist, David Kaplan,
who wanted to make a, he was trying to make a documentary
about the startup of Large Hadron Collider.
And the Large Hadron Collider was the experiment
that was designed to test the fundamental theories
of particle physics, which is exactly what I had been studying
in graduate school.
So it was something where I could recognize very much the issues,
the stakes.
And I knew what was involved and what people were looking for
and how long they'd been looking for it.
And so I could sense that if this thing was really
finally about to turn on, it could be a dramatic film.
And so I told David that, you know, I was not interested
in doing a straightforward science documentary
where we're just going to try to explain particle physics,
but that if I could use my filmmaking tools
to make it about characters and make it, you know,
try to make it follow a narrative,
that would be really interesting.
And I could see the potential.
And he agreed.
And so I jumped in.
And so, you know, it just presented this opportunity
to sort of combine in my mind these two strands of my life,
two strings in some sense of physics and film
and narrative and story.
And that's how it came about.
And of course, it ended up being much more dramatic
than we expected.
I mean, when I started, most of the physicists
said they probably wouldn't find the Higgs boson
while we were filming.
And I, you know, wasn't trying to think
of various dramatic scenarios, you know,
thinking in terms of story, what it could be.
I had various ideas of, you know, how I could set it up
and, you know, what we might do in terms of, you know,
different, you know, different teams competing
or the difference between theorists and experimentalists,
which was something that was very interesting to me
and something I think was not so well known
outside of the field.
Outside of what happened to a lot of science,
but it's really aggravated, accentuated in physics
because the experiments like the Large Hydrogen Collider
are so enormous and, you know, so time consuming.
And, you know, so I was thinking about those distinctions.
And, you know, we were very lucky that they did end
up discovering it while we were still filming, so.
Why does that thing have to be so enormous?
Well, it is an irony that, you know,
you're studying the tiniest things in the world.
But in order to study them, you need incredibly high energies.
And, you know, we get high energies
by accelerating these things around and around.
And you need a certain distance, in a sense,
to build up the speed.
Also, to keep particles, to keep charged particles,
this is accelerating protons, which have a positive charge.
To keep them going around in a circle,
you need very, very strong magnetic fields.
And, you know, the tighter you try to bend them,
the stronger magnetic field you need.
So there's a certain size requirement you need to, you know,
in a sense, to get them faster.
So, you know, the faster you want to make them curve
around the stronger the magnets you need.
And, you know, there's a trade-off.
And the energy you need to basically keep them in track
and the energy that is in them to combine and create something.
And the fact is we're looking for particles
that are very massive, that have a lot of mass.
And by I-sized famous equation, equals mc squared,
E is energy is, you know, proportional to the mass.
And so, to get higher mass particles, you need higher energy.
You need higher energies that you're creating
that basically you're putting energy in,
this movement energy.
And crashing them together.
And you want to transfer that energy of this motion
into the mass of these particles.
So, you need this huge thing to build up enough energy
to create massive particles.
And the size also is determined by, you know,
by the energy that you need to get
and how you keep these things going.
I mean, it's a phenomenal technological feat
when you think about it that, I mean, I remember,
I think I saw something that said, you know,
getting these things because, you know,
you're accelerating protons.
And that it's, it'd be like firing a gun from here
and from the moon and you're having the bullets collide.
I mean, that's almost the accuracy that you need.
So, it's, it is pretty astonishing that it actually works.
Yeah, it's extremely mind-bending how the scale
and the enormity of that thing.
So, there's four different chambers within that 17-mile loop
where the particles actually collide.
Why do those chambers, can you explain what the significance
of those giant chambers are
and why they have to be five stories to,
it's basically like a, I think they described it
in the documentary as a five-story camera lens.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, so, so, yeah, so, so the Large-Hundered Collider,
the Large-Hundered Collider itself is this ring
of two basically two tunnels of protons
that are sent circulating around in opposite directions.
So, they're sent around and they get faster and faster
and faster and then these two beams are, you know, crossed.
So, the beams are directed toward each other
and they cross at four points where you can have the collisions,
okay, and the collisions, you know, again,
you're slamming things together, each of them going very fast,
you're getting the best, the highest energy.
When these particles collide, lots of things come out.
So, it's, you know, it's the combined collision, you know,
the mass, the energy is converted into mass that flies off
into various different particles.
And so, what you want to do is you want to see what they are.
So, they go flying off in all directions
and the detect the experiments.
So, what are in these different chambers
are four different experiments
and they're completely different teams of people.
They work independently.
They are designed to detect different things.
You can try to detect different things
and, you know, you can set it up in different ways.
And so, essentially, they're layers
because as things come out, you can detect,
you can slow things down in some ways, you know,
and you can measure the speed and the energy of the things.
You put in your own magnetic fields
and you can see these particles then,
charged particles will curve in these things
and by the angle of the curve,
you can determine things about their mass
and other internal properties with their magnetic properties
and things like that.
And so, you have these layers also to stop different particles.
Different particles are going to get stopped
at different places.
Different layers are going to detect different properties.
And so, again, these things are happening
in such enormous energies and it's happening so quick
that you need things that, you know,
can register them as successively as they go out
and to eventually stop them, you know,
so you need to ideally want to find the thing
that actually stops it too
and really, really determines its final energy.
So that's what these are for.
I mean, that's why you need them.
And, you know, it's a camera in the sense
of more of an electronic camera now
where you have things, you know, like in a camera
that the photons are coming in
and, you know, can activate various pixels
or something like that in a digital camera.
And that, in a sense, is what's happening here.
These charged particles come through
and you have various wires.
You can have various electronics there
that pick up these charges and send information
about where exactly it happened.
And, you know, you reconstruct.
You see, oh, this thing, it looks like this particle
has gone in this curve, in this direction.
This one looks like it's curved off in this direction
and this one stopped here.
And this one suddenly looks like it branched out
and other things came out of it.
And, you know, using our current theories,
we can reconstruct what those are
and predict where things should go
and what should happen.
And so that's what, you know,
that's sort of the origin of these things
and why they're so big.
But as Monica says, it's not like it's just a lot
of rebar and space.
It's like, you know, a seven-story Swiss watch.
Everything, you know, this is custom-built.
I mean, this is all things that, you know,
there's no place that's really using things at this level.
I mean, you know, one of the things is
that in getting to this level,
they've had to develop technologies
that are used in many other fields at a lower level, right?
I mean, so it's taught us a lot about imaging
and cryogenics, superconductivity, I mean, magnets.
And it generates so much data
that it has also necessitated a better understanding
of how can we process so much data and information.
And so, you know, famously, the web language
was invented at CERN by Tim Berners-Lee
in order initially to just be able to communicate
with all the physicists to distribute
all the information.
The World Wide Web, right?
The World Wide Web, right, yes, exactly.
So the, right, so that language,
that protocol was developed there.
And thankfully, because it was not,
they don't charge for it.
So, you know, it was made available, I mean, CERN,
which is the overall research facility
where the LHC is not a profit.
It's a nonprofit organization.
It's for the universal pursuit of science.
And so it was sort of made available to everybody.
And, you know, it was a private enterprise.
Every time you did a search, you'd be paying somebody.
Yeah, it's amazing all the different people
from different countries,
even countries that are enemies of each other,
all these scientists working together on one massive thing.
And I mean, I think that's the biggest
man-made machine on Earth, right?
So if I understand correctly,
there's basically a fork in the road.
There's two different general possibilities
for our understanding of the universe.
There's either the multiverse,
which means everything's chaos and we can't understand,
we're never gonna be able to understand everything
because we're only like a compartmentalized universe
on our own and we'll never be able to get
any other particles.
And then the other fork in the road
is called supersymmetry, right?
Yeah, I mean, I think these are two alternatives
I mean, in terms of how we view the universe,
we know that our standard model,
the theory that we have right now
at the most fundamental level of how does the universe work,
is called the standard model of particle physics.
And it's based on the idea that there's a certain number
of the most elementary particles
and certain forces that they interact with, okay?
And so there's a finite number of particles, we think.
Basically, there's things called quarks
and there's things called leptons.
And so the quarks are quarks
and the leptons are things like electrons and muons.
And the idea is that these are fundamental,
there's nothing smaller,
they're not made up of other things.
And there are certain fundamental ways
that they can interact.
They can interact by electromagnetic means,
which is the way we mostly are familiar with,
which is when particles have charge,
that they can form electric currents,
they can form magnets.
We know that that is both electricity and magnetism now
are sort of combined or one force really.
There's something called,
well, gravity we know is another fundamental force,
that anything that has mass,
there's an attraction to it between them.
We know that there's something called the weak interaction,
which is something that is responsible
for the fact that some particles decay
and you have radioactivity.
So the reason we have radioactivity is particles,
there is a certain instability,
they decay into other things.
So a neutron, for instance,
can decay into a proton, an electron, and a neutrino.
And then we know that there's something called a strong force,
which is understood as a necessity
because we know protons are not fundamental particles,
protons are made up of quarks.
And so there's something that's holding
these quarks together that is very strong
because quarks, they have charge
and they would not stay together necessarily,
and they have to be kept very close together.
So there's something that's a very, very strong force as well.
So we have those four forces of strong force,
the weak force, the radiation force,
the electromagnetic force and gravity.
And this has been incredibly successful as a theory.
I mean, it explains pretty much every phenomena
that we see on Earth in terms of its accuracy,
it's the most accurate theory of science
in terms of the scale that it can get down to
and the scale that it can get up to.
But we know that it's not the end story.
We know that there are things it doesn't explain,
in a sense, as soon as you look up into the sky,
into the cosmos, there are very big questions
that we don't understand.
We know that there has to be more mass out there
than can be accounted for by the particles that we see.
We can see that things, essentially,
galaxies rotating and things like that,
we can tell there's something
that is gravitationally pulling it, but we don't see it.
It's not visible.
And so it was given the name dark matter
because it's dark, we don't see it.
We also see that the universe is expanding.
It's not only expanding,
it's expanding at a faster and faster rate.
It's accelerating, it's going away from,
it's expanding at a faster and faster rate.
So there's something, we understand that as meaning,
something, in a sense, is pushing it.
It's almost like it's pushing it out.
And we don't understand what that is.
And that's called, we call that dark energy.
We also-
How can we tell that it's expanding faster?
Well, you can tell by, when things move away,
light, there's something called a Doppler shift,
there's a red shift.
So it's the phenomena when, for instance,
you hear a siren and a siren approaches
and you hear it as an approach,
the frequency goes up and then comes down.
And that, it's a shift in frequency
and that happens with light as well.
And so stars and various other things,
they emit light with certain colors, okay?
I mean, light, different frequencies of light
correspond to different colors.
And any source of light has a very distinctive pattern
of the colors that are in it, essentially.
And when things are moving away,
we're moving forward, that pattern shifts.
And so we can tell by examining the shift,
how fast something is moving towards you or away from you.
And so by doing these detailed spectrographic analysis,
they can tell the speed at which something is moving.
And they can tell the things that are further away
are moving faster than the things that are closer.
Again, looking at examining the time
and studying the movements of these things,
and studying this red shift, this shift,
they can get an idea of how fast these things
are moving away and how far they are as well.
And so it's an incredibly detailed astronomical observations
that have really allowed these things.
So we really, yes, it is, how do you tell
what's happening that far out?
And it's from very detailed spectrographic analysis,
really, of the light coming from the light.
I'm saying light, it's really electromagnetic radiation
in all its form.
So that includes X-rays and infrared and visible light
and ultraviolet and everything like that.
So they have things that are sensitive
to all these different frequencies.
So we know that there are these fundamental problems.
And there were also fundamental questions
about well, why is the universe the way it is?
Why there's a different range in the strength of the forces.
Gravity is very weak compared to electromagnetic forces,
for instance.
And you can see that just by the fact
that I can just lift up an object,
my glasses, and the forces that I'm using to lift it
are basically it's electromagnetic forces.
It's, you know, that's what allows the arm,
it's biological, movement is contractions of muscles,
which are, you know, ions moving in the arm.
So it's electromagnetic, it's fundamentally electromagnetic.
But just little me with my arm lifting this
can overcome the entire gravitational attraction
of the earth.
So that just gives you an idea of how much weaker gravity
is than electromagnetic forces.
And similarly, there's a real hierarchy
in the strength of the weak and the strong force.
And so this is another thing
that's really was very, very difficult to understand.
And, you know, there's things in the theory
that, you know, really don't predict this at all.
And there's, you know, in terms of the acceleration
of the universe as well, we don't understand this.
And if you try to do a calculation
based on our best understanding, it's humongously off.
The calculation is humongously off.
It's really one of the worst predictions in science.
And so again, this is a question
of what are we missing?
And what's really interesting is it seems
to have a very specific and sensitive value.
This value at which the universe is accelerating.
What this force is, it's pushing it out.
Because if it was a little bit more,
if the force was, you know, if the force was a little bit more,
or the gravitational force was a little bit less,
then, you know, things would never have actually formed.
We never would have, you know,
after the initial Big Bang,
they never would have come back together again.
You know, and gravity would not have been strong enough
to pull it back together.
But if it was too much, then, I mean, if it was too much,
then things would not have expanded at all,
or it would not be accelerating.
So there seems to be this, you know,
we don't understand that there seems to be a sensitivity
and sort of a very specific number
that accounts for this balance between a universe
that would never form,
and a universe because it just flew apart,
and it would never form because it would just never expand.
So there are these various issues,
and traditionally in physics,
we've tried to understand things
in terms of the fewest number of particles,
and certain, you know, there's certain,
there's a certain patterns,
there's certain patterns and symmetry,
and that has been the approach that has worked up to now.
We've seen certain parallels in particles
that they have counterparts to things,
and you know, it's sort of like a right hand has a left hand
and a positive charge has a negative charge,
and a spin up has a spin down,
and various things like this,
that have a certain symmetry.
And so the hope has been to try to understand
any new particles that might be necessary
to understand these odd phenomena
in terms of the things that we have,
that they're related somehow,
that they sort of fall into the same theory,
and that we just haven't seen them,
but there's something that they're gonna fall
into the same pattern, and again,
behind me have this illustration
of the standard model of particle physics,
it has this very nice symmetrical round structure,
and the hope was that maybe this could be expanded
in terms of other symmetries,
other parallel things that would follow the same pattern,
and these theories are called supersymmetry,
the idea that there's additional symmetries
that we are beyond what we know now,
but we could mathematically see that they could work,
and mathematically they're allowed,
and maybe there's particles that would correspond to that,
and so that has been one of the big hopes at the LHC,
is that we'd see new particles
that would fall into these new patterns,
and that could be part of our theory, our expanded theory,
but we haven't seen them,
and so this alternative idea has arisen,
is that maybe we're asking the wrong question,
in a sense, and we shouldn't be asking
why do these numbers have very specific backgrounds,
values, the number that determines the expansion of the universe,
it's something that's called the cosmological constant,
and maybe we shouldn't be asking for a theory
that's going to predict that number,
because maybe it's not a special number in general,
it's a number that happens to be special in our universe,
and so the parallel that's often made is,
if you look at the distance the Earth is to the Sun,
or any of the planets to the Sun,
and you could say, well, why is it that distance,
I mean, the Earth in particular,
you say, why we have this very particular distance,
it's just right, that it's not too close,
where it would be too hot to allow life,
and it's not too far,
where it would be too cold to allow life, as we know it.
But what we know is that it's not,
there's not a theory that says the Earth has to be here,
in the aftermath of the Big Bang,
I mean, things fell into various distances,
just because of the way things were exploding,
and the gravity, and they fell into them,
and this one, at this distance,
is the one that allowed life to arise.
It just got lucky.
It just got lucky, but Mars was not so lucky,
Saturn was not so lucky, as far as we know,
any of these other ones are not as lucky,
and so this has been this wild idea
that maybe there are other universes,
and ours is the lucky one,
that has this expansion that allowed a universe to form,
but there could be other universes,
where things are not expanding the way they are,
where they didn't, or where maybe it's another universe,
it's of course, it's hard to even say,
well, what's another universe even look like,
but say another universe that also had
a Big Bang or something,
and that the acceleration is different than ours,
or that it never expanded the way we're expanding,
and so this idea, which is a theory called about
that there are multiverses, is a competing scheme,
and it's a very different way of looking at the problem,
and it's controversial within the physics community,
because in some sense, physics has always worked
on the precept that we could find an ultimate theory
that would explain everything,
but this is an alternative that's gained more ground
in the last 15, 20 years,
especially in the last 10 or 15 years,
which is basically saying,
it's the wrong question to say,
how do we predict that number?
So it would be, you'll never predict the number,
because it's a matter of chance that it came out
in this universe that way,
and there's some support for this idea from other theories,
there's theories like string theory that seem to indicate
the possibility and maybe necessity
of different universe configurations.
String theory?
String theory, yes.
So a string theory is a theory
that basically,
one of the other biggest outstanding problems
of the physics is that the weak, the electromagnetic,
the strong interactions are all, in some sense,
fundamentally built the same way,
quantum field theories,
they're quantum, really,
and gravity is not.
Gravity, our best theory of gravity is still
Einstein's theory of general relativity,
which is a theory of gravity,
and it's really just a complete outlier
in terms of how it's set up,
that Einstein gave a theory that basically said,
gravity is because of curvature in our space and time,
that it's a very hard thing to picture,
but we come up with three-dimensional images
of surfaces that are curving,
and mathematically, Einstein showed that,
if you think of four dimensions,
the three dimensions of space and time,
we can study those things geometrically, mathematically,
and the mathematics shows that if you think about curves
in space-time, that is completely equivalent
to the force of gravity,
because gravity, we know gravity affects anything with mass,
and so anything in the universe that has mass
is occupying some space and time,
and we can say that if you've been space and time,
things are gonna move in a certain way that's gravity,
but this is a very,
it's completely separate from quantum mechanics,
and so the holy grail of physics, in many ways,
has been to figure out a way to unify
quantum mechanics and gravity,
and one of the candidates that has been being worked on now
for also quite a number of years
is something called string theory,
which, in a very simple manner,
imagines that the little fundamental particles
are not like little points, balls,
but they're little vibrating strings,
and that it's the different frequency vibrations
that might correspond to different types of particles
and interactions are the interactions of these things,
and there's hope that this might be a way
to unify gravity and quantum mechanics,
and there are also indications in string theory
that you may need other dimensions,
and it gives some credence to the idea
of a multiverse.
Again, I mean, none of this is completely proved,
but there are overlaps that support it,
so I think that has given more weight
to the arguments of a multiverse in the later years,
in the last years,
but it's still unclear,
which way it's going to be,
and so experiments like the Large Hadron Collider,
you know, so, I mean, the big thing
with the Large Hadron Collider
is that in the standard model of physics,
there was, you know, even though the theory
worked incredibly well at the center of it
was this thing called the Higgs boson,
which was necessary for the theory to work,
but had not been seen,
and in a sense, the LHC was designed
to really determine yes or no if the Higgs existed,
and it did, and so in some sense,
it was this incredible success.
I mean, it was just the ultimate confirmation of,
you know, a theory when you think about it,
just this incredibly abstract theory
that is incredibly elaborate and accurate
and, you know, ultimately explains
all of the everyday phenomenon we see on Earth,
and they found it, you know,
with this enormous machine that is mind-boggling
and, you know, the evidence really was convincing
that yes, there is this Higgs particle,
but, you know, so that sort of capped off this nice picture,
but then, of course, it's like, you know,
you look outside and there's everything else
that's going on, and it didn't,
so, you know, I think what physicists,
you know, in some sense, you wanted to find the Higgs,
but the real hope is they find something else
to sort of start to indicate what is the bigger theory.
What exactly is the purpose of the Higgs
and what other particles have they found
since they discovered the Higgs?
Well, the Higgs is, it's a very unique particle.
It's the only one of its kind
that has certain properties of what are called spin
and its mass, and it is, you know, in a simple way,
we understand that it's necessary
for particles having mass, for them actually having mass,
that the theory itself and quantum field theory
is a great theory for particles
that are without any mass, the way they interact,
but in order to essentially explain
certain mathematical aspects of it,
you need something like a Higgs particle.
You need a particle that has the properties of a Higgs
mathematically to have the theory work out,
to have the theory work out and have masses
and things like that.
You know, there's a lot of analogies people make
and, you know, some of them are better than others,
but, you know, the one that's most often used
is the idea that, you know, the Higgs is this field.
It's a field that permeates everything
and particles moving through the field get mass.
I mean, in the simple analogy being, you know,
throwing a ball through the air versus throwing it,
you know, trying to push it through water or molasses,
you know, that the different,
the medium that things move through determine its mass.
So the Higgs is like the medium?
The Higgs is a medium.
So the Higgs is, you know, fundamentally,
the Higgs is something we call a field.
And, you know, what we believe is that
in the very, very early universe,
for, you know, right after, you know, the Big Bang,
in some sense, this field turned on, you know,
that suddenly this field turned on
or it was created at this early stage.
And particles obtained mass
and, you know, began to have the interactions that we know.
So the Higgs is a field.
What we know is that in a field, you know,
when you combine these particles, you can excite the field
and it manifests itself as a particle coming off.
And so that's what the Higgs boson is,
the Higgs, you know, when they see the Higgs particle,
it's a perturbation in the Higgs field
that when we combine these things,
it's such incredibly high energies
and it creates a disturbance in the Higgs field
that we see as the Higgs particle, as the Higgs boson.
So are there, is there any way,
are there any theories that suggest
that there could be like dimensions
that we can't even perceive with our senses?
Oh yeah, yeah, I mean, we can't perceive
with our senses more than, you know, four.
I mean, you know, the three physical,
I mean, the three space dimensions and one time dimensions.
So yes, so yes, so that is the question that,
I mean, all these ideas, I mean, many of these ideas,
well, certainly in string theory posits more dimensions,
you know, this question of multiverses
is do multiverses correspond to more dimensions?
And, you know, there's various theories about,
you know, why don't we see them?
You know, is it possible that these dimensions,
but somehow they're all crunched up.
So beyond our dimensions, they're crunched up
and they're so tiny that we can't see them.
They're folded on into each other.
But yes, I mean, we don't see these dimensions clearly
in our normal activity, but there are theories
about how if they exist, they might be manifested, okay?
And I mean, again, just to give you an example
of what this could mean, you know,
it would mean essentially it would be a bizarre phenomena
where something might just appear.
So one of the classical examples is if you think of,
if you think of the fact that suppose you lived in a,
you know, on a piece of paper,
suppose we lived in two dimensions.
So a piece of paper is just two dimensions.
And, you know, you walk around, you're just on the paper,
you can't see above or you can't see below.
So all you can see is what's in the paper,
in the plane of the paper.
And now suppose there is another dimension.
You're not aware of it, but there is another dimension
and some ball, you know, comes in and enters your universe.
Well, what would you see?
You would see, you know, when it first touches,
you'd suddenly see a spot.
And then if it's a sphere, you know, you'd see it expand.
And as it goes through, you know, and passes through,
the spot would get bigger and bigger
and then it would get smaller and smaller
and then it would disappear.
And so it would be this phenomena
that you would not be able to explain
with your normal theories of, you know,
you've never seen anything like this.
Suddenly something appeared and disappeared.
And that would be evidence of something, you know,
possible evidence of something from another dimension.
So, you know, that's sort of one simple way to imagine.
What does this mean?
You know, what would it be if there was another dimension
and how could we detect it?
And so we look for strange phenomena like that,
that we couldn't, that doesn't fit into our theory,
but might fit into how it would work if it was, you know,
if it was coming from another dimension.
Right, it's not something that you could explain
with just shapes.
That's right.
You couldn't, or, you know, just like, you know,
forces that we know and things like that.
So, you know, evidence, yeah, of other dimensions
would be really weird phenomena, you know.
Is there any weird phenomena that sticks out
that people have, that we've found in the past decade or so
that hints to anything like this?
Not that I know of, no.
I mean, no, no, no, no, like sudden appearance of a UFO
or things like that.
So, no, I mean, that's what they're looking for,
is they're looking for things that don't, you know,
that don't follow the normal rules of physics
that might follow, you know, might be explainable
in terms of some of these other theories.
And there are other theories that do explain these.
And, you know, using other ideas
and multi-dventions and things,
they can try to explain some of the, you know,
missing understanding in cosmology.
But, you know, there's not enough,
there's nothing that's definitive for sure at this point.
Have you heard of this element called 150?
I think it's 115, I believe.
A new element that was recently discovered in the past,
I believe in less than 10 years,
where I think I've heard Bob Lazar talk about it,
the guy who is working,
he was working near in Roswell at area 50,
or near area 51.
And I believe it was an element that was used
to basically fold gravity.
Cool.
And it was basically, the story of him is he worked
at a secret base near area 51,
where they found these outerworldly crafts
that the way they moved was instead of using a combustion
engine to pull air in and shoot air out the back,
what it did was it bended gravity around it
to accelerate in any direction.
Like there was no acceleration,
you know, start off slow, get faster, and then slow down.
It's just instant, up, down, left, right.
And apparently from what he was explaining
was that it's this special element called 115
that enables these crafts to basically fold through gravity
and use gravity to propel itself in any direction.
I don't know anything about this, I have to say.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's fascinating.
So yeah, what particles have been found
besides the Higgs boson since your documentary?
Well, there have been no new particles.
I mean, there's no fundamental new particles.
I mean, there's certain variations of things,
certain things that have certain properties
that we didn't expect.
But in terms of anything beyond the standard model,
which is the quarks that we know,
the electrons, the muons, the neutrinos,
they have not found a new particle
that doesn't fit into this paradigm.
So, you know, that begs the question,
is it, is the theory wrong?
Or is it just that we don't have enough energy?
Because, you know, the problem is these theories,
they don't really predict definitively
what the masses of these particles are.
We had a certain idea of what the mass of the Higgs should be
around what it should be.
But, you know, it's always a question,
are we at the higher, are we at it?
Because we know that you need higher energies
to find these particles.
I mean, that's one of the reasons we don't see them
is that they don't exist normally,
they're not stable.
I mean, even the Higgs boson, it doesn't last.
We don't really even see the Higgs.
The Higgs almost immediately decays into other things.
But our theory predicts what it should do,
and that's what we find.
So, the, you know, the general,
the idea still is that for many people,
they think that we should make,
we need even more powerful accelerators.
We need to get to higher energies.
But, of course, the question is, well, how high?
And, you know, it's very expensive
and technologically difficult,
but there are efforts now to build a,
already to build a successor,
to build a successor to the LHC.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, there's a-
What was something like that look like?
Well, again, you could do, it could either be a big ring,
another ring, even bigger,
or the other alternative is a linear collider,
where you basically, you have things that, you know,
are originated at two ends,
and you just accelerate them right to each other
and bang them together.
And so, there are proposals in Asia,
and there's a proposal at CERN,
but these are, you know, 20, 30-year plans.
So, the LHC itself is still, you know, very active.
They actually have just upgraded.
They're in the middle of a big upgrade.
So, they already have the capability
to go to higher energies,
and they keep improving their optics, in a sense.
You know, so they've also upgraded,
they've upgraded both the ring to get higher energies
and more accuracy and more what's called luminosity.
So, you know, these are bunches of things that come together.
And, you know, the more you can focus them,
the more collisions you're going to get.
And that's not just one proton, one proton.
These are packets, you know,
million and billions of protons,
and, you know, they sort of fly through each other,
and you get a certain number of collisions.
And so, of course, if you can focus it more,
you'll get more collisions.
So, they're improving that.
They're improving their detectors,
you know, their ability to detect things.
And then they're also starting to lay the groundwork
for what could be the next generation of things.
As well as, you know, there's also a lot of efforts to see,
can we learn anything about this
from alternative experiments?
And there are alternative experiments
that are looking at other phenomena,
that are looking at the way these things
called neutrinos behave.
Neutrinos are, you know, these light particles,
very, very light particles that are, you know,
involved in weak interactions,
and they pass through almost everything,
but they have very unusual properties,
and they might be able to shed light
on some fundamental problems.
And so, people are looking for them,
you know, often in deep caverns in the earth,
where, you know, they build them really, really deep,
and, you know, in minds and things,
hoping that they, you know, that they can stop them
and analyze them.
And then, you know, more and more astronomical studies,
where, you know, people are hoping,
as your sensitivities are getting better and better,
and they're coming up with new techniques,
maybe they'll find something that sheds light
on issues like dark matter and dark energy.
So, you know, the problem is, I mean,
the scale of these things now are huge,
and so, of course, they're very expensive,
and this gets back to, you know,
the issue we talked about right at the beginning of this
is what is the value, you know,
what value does society place on these things
that are, as Salah said, not necessary for survival,
but they are, you know, intrinsic to our need
to understand and our curiosity,
and, you know, that's something we as a society
have to evaluate.
That's an interesting question.
How much money, do you know how much money
has been dumped into the Large Hadron Collider to date
or into CERN, and who pays for all that?
So, I mean, I think the construction of the Large Hadron Collider
was, I think they say, about $10 billion
to, you know, get it to the point of finding the Higgs boson.
It's a consortium, so CERN,
which is the consortium of countries,
was actually an outgrowth of UNESCO,
so it was created shortly after the end of World War II,
and it was a consortium of European countries
that the idea was to unite these countries
who often had been very recently enemies
into the peaceful pursuit of science.
The idea is that science could be this unifying endeavor,
that, you know, there's a truth to science
that would transcend political differences
and opinions and things like that,
and so there are these founding members of CERN
and they each contribute money based on their size,
and so that's where a lot of the money comes from,
and then there are other affiliate countries
and institutions that contribute money
for the privilege to be able to work on these experiments
because, you know, essentially,
if you want to be at the forefront
of understanding particle physics,
you need to be, you know, participating at CERN,
and so other countries like the US,
the US is a huge contributor.
Are they really?
Yeah, oh yeah.
I was just gonna ask you, how much of this money does the US,
how much input does the US have, like,
financially into these things?
You know, I'm not sure how much,
but it's, I mean, it's probably at least, I don't know,
I mean, again, I'm not sure,
I'd say an order of magnitude of 200 million
or something like that,
so it's not inconsiderable,
and so what happens is it usually,
it can come from the US government,
but often also from universities,
so universities that want to participate,
they want to send their students there,
then they contribute,
and they get affiliated with one of the experiments,
so whether it's Atlas or CMS or LACB,
they contribute a certain amount of money,
you know, for their students to go and to work there,
so that's what you saw in the film,
is that Monica, the graduate student at Monica,
she was formerly, I think at that point,
she changed, she was at University of Pennsylvania,
then she was at University of Chicago,
she was formerly University of Chicago student,
she was living at CERN, working at CERN full time,
but it was the University of Chicago collaboration
that was working on Atlas,
and they contribute a certain amount of money to do that,
and they build things, they work on it,
so they work on the detectors,
so CERN itself is really, I think,
I believe really supported by the members,
so that's the ring, you know, that's permanent staff,
I think there's 1500 or so people that are permanent there
that are part of CERN,
the experiments are really, they're independent things,
they are, and they're supported by the institutions
that participate in it,
so all the universities that work on Atlas or Alice
or LACB or CMS, they are independent organizations,
groups of universities that come together,
yeah, we wanna work on this together,
and we're gonna put this much money into the experiments,
so the funding for the experiments
is a little different from the funding of the ring,
that they'll maintain the ring.
The interesting thing to me about all of this,
I think the most interesting thing to me is that,
you know, there's so much that goes into this massive,
massive undertaking of the LHC
and all the experiments that go on,
and it's a very difficult thing
for a normal everyday civilian to wrap their mind around,
right?
Normally, if someone explains this
to somebody who's never heard about it,
you say, well, what's the point?
What's the goal?
What's the goal of all this?
But what I've realized is that,
no matter what the goal is, the coolest thing is that
all the things that you can discover
on the way to that goal,
like for example, the World Wide Web,
like all the different innovations that come along
in the process of trying to reach some peak,
you know what I mean?
Or some summit of some, like some big discovery,
or some a-ha discovery.
Is that the interesting things that are innovated
or discovered or learned about during the process?
Yeah, well, I think that is exactly the point, you know?
And again, it relates to this question
that would be brought up right at the head
that Savas encapsulates in other people,
is that the people that do this for the most part
don't do it because they want to make a better mousetrap.
They're doing it because we want to understand,
but the offshoot of that is unpredictable and immeasurable
and it has resulted in so many other things.
As I say already, I mean, from the LHC,
I mean, the advances that we've gotten in understanding,
you know, how to work with super cool temperature things,
materials sciences, optics things,
magnetic phenomena, information processing,
you know, the web.
Yeah, I mean, you know, even just at the simplest level
of information, I remember a number of years ago,
you know, we obviously are having an information exploit.
We're living in an age of information explosion.
And my, a cousin of mine was working
in the field of bio information
and, you know, in particular dealing
with all the genetic sequencing and understanding of genes.
And, you know, this used to be very hard and expensive,
but it was changing where now the cost of, you know,
sequencing DNA was getting, you know, less and less
and easier and easier.
And suddenly people in biology were being, you know,
faced with an enormous amount of data.
And they didn't know, you know, how do you deal with this?
And so they decided they need to seek out the advice
of the people that deal with the most data of all,
and it's the people at CERN.
And so they went to them and talked to them.
And so one of the things that, you know, was interesting,
he has said at that time is that at CERN,
the amount of data created at the LHC,
you know, the trillions and trillions
of collisions every second,
there's, it's impossible for us to imagine,
we can't deal with it, okay?
It's happening too quick for our computers.
We can't possibly store it all.
And so the first stage in after the collision
is that it goes to an analysis, it's called the trigger,
and it immediately throws away a huge amount of data,
which is things that they already know about
and are not interesting.
And so it filters out at the very first stage,
a lot of uninteresting things that were not needed.
There's a lot of junk, a lot of things that aren't interesting.
And because they just can't even deal with anything else.
So this is a very, you know,
and of course it's a very tricky thing
because you're throwing away data.
And, but there's no alternative.
We just couldn't deal with it.
And what my cousin had said is at that point,
he said biology wasn't at that point
where they could imagine throwing away data,
but they were gonna have to get to that point, you know,
because there was, and so how to do that intelligently
is something again,
it's not something you would even expect necessarily
would be a result of the, you know, physics,
but it's part of it.
And it's one of the things that has been an outgrowth
of this, you know, you're pushing the frontiers
of understanding in science and technology.
And that does eventually have,
you know, it can have a certain unexpected benefit.
So, but you know-
So you're saying when they collide all these particles,
when they use this thing to collide the particles
and these atoms together,
whenever there are events that we've seen before
during those collisions,
we're able to just filter those out
and only take the new things that we've never seen.
Right, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, not so simply new and old,
but yes, yes, basically exactly,
that there are a lot of things that are happening
that we know are not interesting, you know,
there are a dime a dozen and, you know,
or, you know, just seem, you know, relics of something
and, you know, just see the, you know,
just focus on the new ones, yes,
because we can't possibly keep all the information,
they can't possibly keep it.
So, you know, talking to people
that are on the trigger division at, you know,
the various experiments, they become very,
very popular with their collaborators
because, you know, certain theories predict
certain things could happen.
And so it's a, you know, it's a very tricky,
you have to make some, you know, tricky decisions
about, you know, what things you're going to eliminate
because everybody may not agree
on what are the interesting things,
but they have to make certain decisions
or they couldn't possibly deal with any of it.
So-
How are they, are those just sort of like click-baity
headlines where they talk about making little black holes
with the LHC or purposely creating black holes?
Well, mostly yes, you're seeing click-baity things.
Yeah, yeah.
So the theory does predict that it, you know,
it's possible that it could create really many black holes,
but the idea that it would create a black hole
that would destroy the universe is just complete fiction.
And, you know, it was astonishingly,
it was mostly promoted by this, you know,
ridiculous high school science teacher in Hawaii.
And, you know, but because it had such, you know,
sensationalistic aspects,
it was picked up by the press everywhere.
And this guy really knew nothing.
I mean, in fact, as they, you know,
they said if he read the next lines in a paper,
you know, in any of the technical papers,
that the same theory that predicted
that you could possibly create a mini black hole
also predicted it would evaporate almost immediately.
So, and, you know, but unfortunately,
it did get the attention of the press.
And I remember I was over there at CERN
right before the first big turn on,
and, you know, there were big headlines.
And so it did force the administration
to basically take a couple of physicists and say,
okay, you really need to do another study,
just definitively show that this is not a problem,
which they did.
But, and, you know, the other argument is that
in the cosmos, there are collisions happening
at far, far greater energies than we can ever create here.
And the universe is here.
So, you know, if this was really a problem,
if, you know, these high energy collisions
could create these things that would destroy our universe,
they, you know, most likely would have already happened
and we wouldn't be here to worry about it.
How are we ever gonna figure out what dark matter is?
Well, I mean, it's basically just blackness,
nothingness, right?
That's how we can perceive it.
Yes, yes, well, but we do,
it does have effects on mass and things like that.
So, you know, we do, dark means
that it's not visible electromagnetically.
It doesn't mean that it's not all,
that it doesn't interact in other ways.
We know it interacts gravitation.
So, we can detect things that don't emit light
because of the other properties.
I mean, there are other particles that, you know,
don't emit light that don't have a charge
or something like that.
So, we can detect them because of their interactions
through these other forces.
Okay, does that make sense?
So, you know, you're saying how do we detect something
because we can't see it,
but seeing is only one way of detecting things.
We can detect things, which is how we know
that it exists, which is how we know
that dark matter exists because of gravity.
So, it affects other things, right?
So, you know, if you saw something rotating,
you know, you saw something that you can see
and it's going around in a circle,
you know, to keep something going in a circle,
we know is gravity needs to keep something going
in a circle.
There needs to be a force, okay?
I mean, even at the simplest level of Newton's Laws,
we know that things, you know,
if they don't go in a straight line,
there's got to be a force that's holding it in.
So, the reason things, you know, any object,
any object with mass moves around something
is because something is holding it in.
Now, that something could be electricity and magnetism.
So, if, you know, if you have a positive,
or say you have a positive thing at the center
and an electron around it, like, you know,
this primitive idea of an atom, right, an electron, okay?
It's the electromagnetic force that's holding it together,
right?
The attraction between positive and negative charges.
You have the earth going around the sun.
It's because the sun has a huge mass
and the earth has also as mass and it moves around it.
But, you know, suppose, you know,
it's possible that you don't see something.
So, suppose there's something out there
and it doesn't emit light, like the sun,
but we see an object, we see a planet moving around something,
okay?
Or even what we see is sometimes a whole, you know,
a whole galaxy is moving around something.
We know something is there, something is there.
We can't see it because it's not emitting light,
like the sun, but we know something is there.
And so that's how, you know, if you study the motion
of these things, you know, what the speed is,
what the distance is, what the curvature is,
again, the curvature is really important.
How we can tell what the strength of this thing is
and we can tell properties about it,
even though we can't see it conventionally with light.
Have you ever seen the movie Interstellar?
Yes.
What did you think about it?
Do you like it?
Personally, I liked the human story the most,
but I think, you know, I mean,
I've heard that, yeah.
Kip Thorne was involved in it.
I mean, in fact, I think what I read
is actually one of the originators of it.
And, you know, so, I mean, you know,
Kip is a, you know, very, very respected physicist
and, you know, they, I think, made it as realistic
as, you know, as possible and in a speculative way.
So it had, you know, it was very, very legitimately done.
They, I know that the graphics people actually
really worked with, I think, with scientists
and even, I think may have even written
a couple of scientific papers on how do you visualize
certain of those aspects of it and things like that.
So it really dealt with that as well.
Again, you know, I mean, it is for me an interesting thing
is I primarily, I consider myself a filmmaker at this point.
And so I, when I look at a film,
I'm looking at how they are dealing with that aspect of it.
And I thought there were some very interesting things there.
I thought, you know, with the, you know,
I actually thought the way that they handled
some of the things near the end
with the different dimensions with the daughter
and the father was very interesting actually.
The hardest part for me to conceptualize
was the way that time changed.
How he got farther away from the earth
and time went slower for him than it went on earth
because at the, when he came back at the end,
his daughter was like a hundred years old
and he was still like the same age.
Right, yeah.
And that's a function of relativity.
You know, it's part of Einstein's theory
in terms of how the time and space dimensions get altered.
And again, in a similar way to,
I mean, you know, somewhat parallel to what I was talking
about the way, you know, things shift
when they're moving in color, right?
That you shift frequencies.
There's, you know, a certain sense too,
what you can imagine that, you know,
it's time also can be changing, you know,
that when you're moving, when you're under the effect
of a field of a strong gravitational field
or something like that.
So I don't know if that helps at all,
but think in terms of the way we know that sound
or colors can shift when you're moving.
Well, time as can as well, actually.
I think the next thing that we're gonna discover
is certain is time machines.
I think that would be pretty cool.
That would be cool.
What else are you working on now?
It's been a while since you released that movie.
Right, so I-
Was that 2014 you released that?
Yeah, it actually, it premiered at festivals in 2013
and we sort of did the festival run for 2013
and then it actually came out in theaters in 2014.
And so it was nice.
I mean, I think that, you know,
we had the benefit of a discovery
that was on the front page of essentially
every newspaper in the world
and people were interested in it.
I mean, they are, you know, people, we were surprised.
I mean, look, when I started, I had no idea
if anybody would be interested in this sort of film.
And it turns out that there's a lot of people
that are interested in these questions
and these fundamental pursuits.
So that was 2014.
And then I actually got involved
and I made a new film about a man named Claude Shannon.
And Claude Shannon is this unbelievably unknown genius
who essentially laid the foundation for the Information Age.
And he is somebody who, he really is the person
that first realized what the significance of bits
and that everything could be converted to zeros and ones.
I mean, he was somebody, he was looking
for a universal theory of communication.
So this was in the, you know, 40s, late 30s, 40s.
And, you know, we had all these different things
like, you know, radio and TV and a text
and all sorts of things that you wanted to communicate.
And what Shannon realized is fundamentally
what is it, it's about communicating information,
you're transmitting information.
And nobody had really, there was no real theory
of information.
I mean, I think information was considered
to be this sort of abstract thing.
Probably people thought, well,
information is about data and, you know,
amount of, you know, how would you measure information?
Well, it's like amount of text on a page
or something like that.
And what Shannon realizes that information is fundamentally,
it's about the resolution of uncertainty.
So it's something you didn't know and now you know.
That's the basic unit of information is you find out
something that you didn't know and now you know.
And that he realized that it basically could all be reduced
to this simple binary thing of, you know,
not no or no or true or false, yes, no,
zero or one, a bit.
And so he realized that, you know,
you could, if you changed all information,
if you reduced it, if you changed it all into, you know,
basically this question of a zero or a one,
you could have a universal theory.
I mean, this would apply to any information,
whether it's, you know, text or pictures or sound
or things like that.
It's all the same and it's all zeros or ones.
And you could come up with a mathematical theory
and he showed how you could measure it.
You could measure information mathematically
and then you could optimize it.
You could talk about compressing it
because he realized that a lot of things are redundant.
And so he looked, you know, initially at that,
like the English language where we know that, you know,
if you, you know, the whole notion that, I mean,
if you have a cue, you was gonna generally follow.
And there's a lot of other things
that we have incorporated in our grammar and patterns.
And he, you know, looked at it in a more general sense,
realized that, you know, there's a lot of redundancy
you don't need, so you could compress information
and that you could transmit it
and that you could actually come up with a theory
of how to overcome errors in transmission of information.
And that, you know, if you had a good theory
and an understanding of what you have,
you could essentially code it in certain ways
that could compensate for errors.
And, you know, the earliest most popular manifestation
of this was, you know, when we suddenly had CDs
that could compensate for scratches
because, you know, they could overcome scratches, you know,
as opposed to an analog LP record,
but, you know, digital media could often be encoded
in a way that it could compensate for scratches
and things like that.
And so it was this, you know, comprehensive theory
of communication that allowed you essentially
to, if you were clever enough to code things
in a way that you could have efficient
and perfect communication.
It seems like such a distant memory of playing a CD
and a CD player and having it skip memory
when you bounce it or you vibrate too much
with the music would skip.
Yeah.
What was this guy's name again?
Claude Shannon.
Claude Shannon, what led you to discover this guy?
Well, actually a friend who is an information theorist
who told me about it, he was a friend
and he said he has an idea for me for another film
and he said it's about Claude Shannon
and I admit I didn't know who Claude Shannon was myself
and then started reading about it
and you start thinking how could we not know
about this person?
He, you know, is so fundamental to everything
in our modern world.
And, you know, in a sense he did three major, major things
as a grad student for his master's degree.
He actually was the first person in 1938 to realize
that you could, men meld something called Boolean Algebra.
So Boolean Algebra was a mathematics of thought.
I mean, it's basically, you know,
you see these sort of logical arguments that, you know,
so-and-so does this, so-and-so does this, then this does this
and, you know, it's sort of the logical statements
that can lead to a conclusion, you know,
that children don't like alligators,
alligators eat children, you know,
you could do this sort of series of things
and they were all just, it was basically logical statements
and he showed how you could make those mathematical
and they were all, and just being about true or false,
you know, the statements were either true or false
and you could use, you could make logical arguments
and, you know, as a basis of, you know, how we think
that this is a logical argument.
And what Shannon realized is that that basic, you know,
true-false aspect could be mapped to electric circuits
which are either on or off.
And so the on, you know, a circuit is either on or off
and then that could correspond to true or false.
And he showed that basically any logical argument,
you could have an electric circuit to mimic it.
So you could basically make circuits that could do logic.
And so in a sense, it's the basis of the idea
of a modern computer that does something more
than just, you know, adds numbers or things
like, or, you know, makes steam.
Like something that's true or false?
Yeah, so true or false could be correspond to just,
you know, whether a circuit is on or off,
whether a switch is, you know, connected or not.
And so, you know, the whole, the basis of this,
of idea of a computer that, you know,
really could do logical operations comes from this.
And this was his master's thesis.
Then during the war, he was working,
he was at Bell Labs and he was working on cryptography.
And he wasn't that interested in, you know,
specifics of code breaking.
So, you know, a lot of the effort during the war was,
you know, how do we break a code?
You know, this was like the enigma with Alan Turing
and things like that.
But Shannon was really interested
in a much more theoretical fundamental question is like,
what is a code?
And how much information do you need to break a code?
Can you make a code that's completely unbreakable?
And so he wrote a paper that basically people consider
as the foundation of theoretical cryptography.
And then he really worked on,
he came up with this theory of information theory.
And it was really, he was working on it on and off
for 10 years and didn't really talk to anybody about it.
Nobody else even was thinking that there was a theory
of mathematical theory of communication like this.
And he sort of wrote a paper in 1948, two big papers
that just sort of created this field
and threw down a challenge basically
because he predicted that if you could find the right way
to code things into zeros and ones,
if you could find the right way to code things
into zeros and ones and then to compensate for errors
that you could have perfect communication.
And he threw this down in his paper in 48
and it took until the nineties
to basically be able to prove everything.
And people began to use it right away.
And it was very important for even for like the Voyager
for our satellites, the way,
the reason we can actually communicate
over these huge distances because they were using
applying principles that Shannon had laid down
in terms of how you could press the signals,
how you could compensate for the noise
of millions of miles of travel.
And it was used in obviously compression
is something that is critical to our light way of life.
I mean, the whole idea, the way we compress images,
the idea, the ability to be able to us to talk on Zoom
and see images, yet it all comes down
to basic principles still of what Shannon laid down
of how to encode information, how to transmit it.
So, it seemed like a worthy subject,
but even more is that when I began to read about him,
I found out that he was a really unique individual
in terms of he was a very playful.
And there was a series of,
there was very little footage of him at all.
And he was very shy.
He didn't write a book, I think,
in terms of why don't we know about him
compared to other people.
But the IEEE, which is the Institute for Electronics,
Electrical Engineers at Professional Society,
they did an interview with him in the 80s.
And there were a couple of other interviews with him
in the 80s too.
And it was at his house.
And he was an inventor.
He not only had the mathematical skills,
but he was also, he loved to build things.
And he had the ability to do that.
And so he built all sorts of things.
And so this interviewer came to interview him
and the interviewer wanted to talk about
how he came up with certain theories and things.
And he just wanted to show various things he had built,
which included a juggling WC fields
and a flaming trumpet and a chess playing machine.
And so he built all these things
that just showed a sort of playfulness
that he had this curiosity of a child that he never lost.
And sometimes it revolutionized the world
and sometimes it made a flaming trumpet.
And so to me, this, and again,
this sort of somewhat related to the bigger issues we had,
we've talked about of pursuing pure science
and the reasons for doing it.
And Shannon epitomized for me,
somebody who just, he pursued things
out of just curiosity, this childlike curiosity.
And it had tremendous results.
So he also, and I think that's another reason
he's not so well known is that after his paper in 48,
he sort of threw this down as a challenge
to people to try to prove it,
to try to work out certain things.
And he did some work on it as well,
but then he sort of got interested in other things
and didn't really pursue it as much.
And so he got interested in chess.
And so in fact, Alan Turing came to visit
when he was at Bell Labs.
And they were both working on top secret things
and dealing with cartography.
So they didn't talk about cryptography,
but they both began to talk about chess
and about the fact that, so again,
this is in the fifties, early fifties,
could a, you know, would a computer ever be able
to play chess?
And so Shannon actually wrote the first paper
about how a computer could play chess
and built a primitive machine.
It could only play six moves
because the computers didn't have that much capability
at the time, but he built the first,
you know, at least one of the first computers
that could play chess and wrote the first paper
that I actually, I met some of the people at IBM
that made a deep blue.
So your deep blue was the computer that IBM made
that was the first computer to beat a world champion,
a grand champion, so it, you know, it, you know,
famously won the grand, you know,
the grand championship of chess.
And he said that basically everything, you know,
still in terms of computer chess goes back
to Shannon's paper, basically, that he laid the way for that.
So he built that, he built, you know,
one of the most, one of the first,
or probably one of the first
artificial development, artificial intelligence devices
of a little mouse that could find its way through a computer.
He, then he got very interested in juggling and unicycles.
And he came up with a mathematical theory of juggling.
He built unicycles.
So he just was sort of extraordinary
and he was very playful.
So to me, again, I got interested in the idea of this film.
You know, first of all, I mean,
to let people know what this man did,
but also as a model of how.
And so the film actually is,
I ended up doing a real hybrid film.
And so where I was able to sort of recreate the interview.
I mean, there was no footage, but I had this text
and I sort of wrote a script based on that.
You know, as if we were doing it
and found somebody had an actor
and we were able to film actually in Shannon's house
and we were able to get a lot of these devices.
Some of the things he built were at MIT museum
and various homes and the family had them.
And so we recreated the house in the house
and used this interview, you know,
as the sort of core of the film,
which was to really get the sense of Shannon as a person.
And then have other people talk about him
and illustrate some of the things he did.
So that film, which is called The Bit Player,
was something that I was working on, you know,
for a couple of years after that now,
and premiered last year at the World Science Festival
and it's actually now out on Amazon Prime
and on Curiosity Stream.
So that's, you know, that was my last big effort.
What was the scientific theory for juggling?
I'm curious.
Well, yeah, he, you know,
he looked at it from a mathematical perspective
of like, you know, as he said, you know,
how long the ball is in your hand,
how long the ball is in the air, you know, gravity,
the size of the ball, as he said, even, you know,
how many hands, you know, the speed at which you throw it.
So, you know, those are the different parameters
that you can play with, you know,
is the theory of like, you know,
how high do you have to throw it?
The speed, you know, the number of balls.
And so the idea of how could you come up
with a theory of, you know, was there a prediction
for how many balls you could juggle
or what speed you would need with how many balls
and things like that and what height you should do it at,
what speed you should do it at, you know,
those are all the parameters that he was playing with.
And then he built this mechanical WC fields figure
that actually juggled.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
That's amazing how you can take things like juggling
or chess and solve them with basic math equations.
Yeah, yeah, that's exactly it.
I mean, that's the, you know, that's the real genius
is how do you translate something like that
into mathematics that can be useful.
And that's what, you know, that's what Shannon did
is he, in some sense, one of the genius things
of information theory is that he was able to abstract
from the complexities of the content of information.
And so the content doesn't matter.
That was, you know, we're never gonna come up
with a theory of information
that could account for all the meaning
because, you know, you can have, you know,
every book has different sentences
and you can't measure the meaning.
But what you can measure is what you can measure
is the uncertainty, the intrinsic, you know,
how much of something is new, how much makes a difference,
you know, and that you can measure.
And, you know, it allows you to do so many things
like compress it or like, you know, compensate for errors.
So, you know, it was a subtraction of information
separating meaning from, you know,
an intrinsic thing that you could actually deal with.
And, you know, it actually has had so many,
it has so many consequences now in unexpected fields.
I mean, when it first came out, there was a big move,
you know, people, you know, just were like jumping
on this idea of, you know, using it for everything,
you know, gardening and this and that
and landscape design and architecture and, you know,
everybody, you know, in the social sciences
and we're all excited about this idea and using it.
And Shannon sort of pulled back
and he famously wrote in a very short paper,
you know, where he said people should get off the bandwagon
that this is, you know, this is a very specific theory
and we're still working out the details
and, you know, we need to focus on that first.
The irony is now it's continuing to have incredible amount
of applications unexpectedly.
And so, you know, as varied as in genetics
where when we, you know, interestingly,
I mean, relating to something I was talking about before is,
you know, when you try to sequence genes,
we can't technically still,
you can't basically do the whole thing in one strip.
We can't technically get a whole strand of DNA.
So what they do is they do it in segments.
They have to break it up and do it in segments.
And then the question is,
how do you put these segments back together again?
So that, you know, in the right order.
And it turns out that they're doing it using,
they're using Shannon information theory,
becomes an incredible, an integral point,
an integral tool for how to see
how these things go back together again.
So he's actually having, you know, a role in,
I mean, information theory is important there.
It's turning out to be information in physics
has turned out to be a very, very important concept.
And for a long time, the physicists didn't care
about it at all.
But it sort of changed with
the idea when Steven Hawking started talking about black holes
and black holes started becoming more,
becoming to be more seriously considered.
And what, you know, a black hole is something
where basically, you know, everything, it's so strong.
The gravitational force is so strong
that everything that comes, you know,
too close to it basically gets sucked in.
Nothing can get out, not even light can get out.
That's why it's called black, okay?
So there's another example of something you can't really see,
but we can see the effects of it.
And we now know that there's black holes possibly
at the center of every galaxy.
Anyways, the paradox of the black hole were that
it seems that anything you threw in would be lost
in terms of the information.
Hawking famously showed that in fact,
black holes can leak that, you know,
because of quantum mechanics at the edge,
things can leak out,
but it's just a very diffuse radiation.
So it doesn't reflect anything that went in there.
So no matter what goes in there, you know,
whether you throw an elephant in there
or a book or anything like that,
what comes out is all the same.
So information has been lost.
We've lost the information about what went in there.
What do you mean what comes out is all the same?
Think of it as radiation.
So, you know, okay, whatever, you know,
more concretely, you know, if a star,
a certain star goes in,
certain stars fall into a black hole, other planets,
things fall into it.
What comes out is just a certain radiation.
There's nothing that tells you
what went into forming the black hole.
Okay, does that make sense or?
Kind of losing me.
Okay, well, there's nothing, you know,
it's just like, you know,
different things can fall in different planets,
but what comes out is just light, you know, or heat.
Okay, so it doesn't, there's nothing,
we can't learn anything about what went into the black hole
by what comes out.
So there's information lost,
the information about what the thing was that went in
is not what comes out.
So do things, are you saying things actually
are ejected out of black holes at a different position
like at somewhere else?
No, not in somewhere else that comes out, you know,
it radiates.
So we know black holes,
we can see that there's radiation coming out,
very, very low level radiation.
Okay.
Which was initially thought not to be possible.
It didn't seem like radiation is light.
It didn't seem like anything come out.
We know things do come out,
but what comes out isn't related to what went in.
And it seems like, so the idea was
it seemed like information was lost,
that things fall into the black hole,
it seemed like that we lose information.
And now, and it's still a very hot topic,
but it seems, and one of the things businesses
have had to do is really go back to information theory
and think about information carefully
to try and understand it.
And so it has, you know, information theory
has become a very important in cosmology
in terms of its understanding.
So again, you know, there are people that have claimed
that information is actually more fundamental
than a lot of other concepts in physics.
So famously, there's a physicist named John Wheeler,
who basically Kip Thorne, I think was Wheeler's student.
And so Kip Thorne from, you know, Interstellar, right?
So he worked with Wheeler,
they wrote a famous book on gravitation.
And Wheeler very much believed that in the end,
information was everything.
He famously coined the phrase, it's from bits,
that he felt that everything was ultimately
going to have to be looked at
from the terms of information.
So, you know, I don't think that's been borne out,
but it's still something that people talk about,
is information, is that the fundamental way
we should look at the world in terms of information?
Not just information and communication,
but just is that the way we need to come up
with a theory of the universe based on just on information.
So it's had a lot of applications and...
Well, it's interesting, they do go hand in hand
with the information that you get
from combining particles with the LHC.
I mean, nothing means anything
unless you have those ones and zeros
that are transmitted to those hundreds of thousands
of computers, right?
Right, yes.
Well, that is the way we analyze it for sure.
And that's, you know, I mean, again, CERN, you know,
is at the forefront of how do we handle so much information?
How can we compress it?
You know, one of the interesting things is right now is,
you know, even with everything that CERN has done,
the amount of information that we're having to deal with,
not only at CERN, which is also expanding,
but everywhere else is, you know,
a lot of people believe really going to exceed our capability
of advancing in terms of the classical way
we construct computers in terms of, you know,
our chips, our semiconductor chips and things like that.
And so, you know, one of the...
What chips?
Semiconductors, you know, the silicon chips,
the things that are in, you know, our computers now, right?
So we've gotten used to these things getting faster
and more powerful, right?
That every couple of years, there's new generations.
This was famously canonized in something called Moore's Law.
And Moore's Law was this observation that Moore observed
that it seemed like our abilities to make smaller and smaller
and denser chips of semiconductors, you know,
every year and a half would double our capacity.
And that has been true, has been true for many, many years.
And we had taken, you know, we have benefited from it
as our devices get smaller and faster and things like that.
But we are approaching physical limits.
You know, we're at the atomic level almost.
And so, and we're generating more and more data,
especially like in artificial intelligence
and things like that with these, you know,
so-called machine learning devices that are becoming,
you know, more and more evident.
It requires huge amounts of data.
And so, one of the things people are investigating
is the idea of, can we make a quantum computer,
a computer that operates at the quantum level?
And so, IBM has now formed a consortium
with a number of people, including CERN.
And so, I talked to some of my friends at CERN
and they're very concerned about the fact,
no pun intended, about the ability to deal with all this
and that, you know, are they gonna need, you know,
what is the future of computing
that's gonna allow them to deal with all of this?
So again, information, it's information,
information, information, that's our...
Yeah.
Can you explain in dummy terms for me exactly
the most fundamental basis of what a quantum computer is?
Yeah, so, I mean, you know, classical computers are based on,
I mean, you know, essentially a computer is based
on something that has two states, a binary state, right?
I'm going back to Shannon actually, really.
Whether it's on or off, that you can store information,
if you change everything to zeros and ones,
and you can have an array of circuits that are on or off,
and you can have an on, open correspond to a zero,
a closed correspond to a one.
So you could think about that,
you can arrange circuits that would basically be in a state
of the zeros and ones, right?
Right.
That would encode information.
But what we know is that at the quantum level,
quantum mechanical objects,
they can exist in different states at the same time.
So basically this is the strange thing
about quantum mechanics, that the quantum mechanics,
and it's something where, yes, you know,
you just, you raised your eyebrows
and it's just a, yes, you know what,
okay, what does that mean?
And it's, you know, it's hard to comprehend
because our brain, it is hard to think about
what does that mean?
But I'll give you an example, a simplest example,
or one of the best I've seen is,
if you think about a coin, so okay,
so a coin can be, you know, up or down, okay?
So a coin is heads or tails, a coin is heads or tails.
And that sort of, you know, corresponds to a classical,
you know, chip basically, a bit, okay,
that it can be one or the other,
just like a electronic switch could be on or off.
But what if I spin the coin and I say,
well, what is it a heads or a tail when it's spinning?
Hmm.
Well, yeah, I mean,
it technically has the little tiny edge around it.
Yeah, it has the edge, but exactly,
but it's, you know, it is in,
it's really in both states at that point, right?
Right.
Until it falls, until it,
and that is essentially a parallel to the way
we think nature works,
that nature is not in fixed states
at the quantum level.
When we want, when we observe them,
we see one state or the other.
But in the interim period, it is in both.
And so if you think of, you know, a classical computer,
you know, everything is fixed, everything is, you know,
it's either on switch or off switch.
And so that is, you know,
so any, a single switch can have two possibilities,
could be open or closed.
Yeah, I can open a window or a program on my laptop,
turn it, use it, edit a video on it, or shut it down.
And it's, right?
Yeah, but this is even more basic than that,
is just, you know, what do you do when you open a program?
You know, it's, it's going in there.
And, you know, there are physical, you know,
there are physical, you know, electronics that are,
you know, either the current is going through here,
where there's a one or it's not going through here or zero.
And, you know, just think of everything
as a sequence of zeros and ones, right?
Just everything, every instruction,
every piece of information, you know, the color red is,
you know, this, this is this, the letter A.
You know, just think about how, you know,
we code a letter and come up with it.
We have a, you know, there's a certain accepted string
of zeros and ones that corresponds to A.
Different one that corresponds to D, to B, everything.
So everything has a certain code to it, okay?
But in a computer, those zeros and ones,
each one of them is a circuit,
a switch that's on or off, okay?
And so each one of those switches is either
just one or two things.
But a quantum object, something that,
that is actually behaving at a quantum mechanical level.
A switch is much too big for quantum mechanics to be effect.
It's a big thing.
It's not, not, it's not just an atom,
but an atom itself or an electron or something like that.
It's, it's in a quantum mechanical state.
It's like the spinning coin.
And so it can be both at the same time.
So, you know, unlike in a classical computer
where a switch is, it's either open or closed.
Okay.
An atom or an electron is spinning
and it could be either up or down or in between.
And so, intrinsically, it, it can hold more information
than this thing that's just up or down, right?
The spinning coin can intrinsically be including both information
at the same time.
Just depending on how you're looking at it?
Yeah.
It depends on how you will look.
It depends on what you do to actually look at it at the end.
So if you can put in, you can basically, whereas in the,
in the switch, you can only either say it's either zero or one.
In that atom, you can, you can say it's both at the same time.
And then the trick is, how do you get the, you know,
how do you observe it and see what,
what is the thing that you want?
So the idea of the idea with the quantum computer
is that if we can make components that actually operate
quantum mechanically, there's a potential
for storing a huge amount of information,
much greater amount of information at the same time,
then you could in the, you know,
with the, with the classical computer with, with, with chips.
Okay.
So the main advantage to a quantum computer
is just storing way more information.
And being able to do, to be able to do calculations
that are much, much more complex than you could ever do
with a classical one, because it would just take forever
to do the classical one.
So, so, so things that would basically take forever,
literally for as long as the universe has existed,
there might be a possibility to do it with a quantum
because it can just operate, you know,
with so much more capacity and, and simultaneously.
So.
So like, for example, if we're talking about something
like virtual reality or augmented reality, something,
this is done with a traditional computer
with the same type of information, ones and zeros.
So if you could imagine something like augmented reality
on steroids, like times a million.
More than, more than a million even.
Yeah. Really?
Yeah. Yeah.
So, I mean, things that, things that we think would take,
you know, yeah, it's a completely different level
of magnitude, but the problem is it's very,
they're very hard to do.
So we do, there are quantum computers now,
but they are very limited in what they can do
because one of the problems is,
how do you manipulate things at that, at that scale?
And they're very unstable, you know,
when you're dealing with atoms, you know,
as soon as you, if you, you know, as soon as you perturb them,
they, you know, fall apart or they lose their orientation.
So generally, you know, they have to be done
at super, super cool temperatures
so that there's no heat impacting it and things like that.
And so, you know, this is, it's still, you know,
it's another controversial thing.
It's again, one of these things at this point,
it's incredibly fascinating and theoretically intriguing.
And, but there is debate in the field.
Is this, you know, like the LHV, in a sense,
is quantum computing, is it going to be practical?
Well, I mean, isn't a huge question also
is how are biological organisms like us
going to be able to interact with it?
If it's, if it can store and,
and quantify this massive amount of data,
how can monkeys like us interact with it
in a meaningful way, just like an iPhone?
Like a, like these amazing devices,
we only have our two thumbs.
We can only do so much with an iPhone.
So like the, the input output with a human being,
like we can type with our fingers on a keyboard.
There's only so much that we can do
to interact with these computers.
So like, isn't one of the big questions,
how are we going to be able to integrate with them
to be able to do or learn anything?
Beautiful.
Well, yes, but we do that through a regular computer.
So as I say, there are, you know,
there are quantum computers that exist.
In fact, IBM has made one available to anybody.
They put it, you basically, you can access it, you know,
if you go on the web and you look up IBM Q system,
they have set it up and you interact with it
like a regular computer.
So the point of quantum computers is that
the input and the output are regular computers.
So we will, we interact, we interact with them.
So, you know, your point is a very good point
is that the way we interact with them is classically
because that's the way we interact with things.
So, so the input is classical information.
So we are, you're on a regular computer
and you're writing a program.
Now what those programs look like,
that's the big, one of the big challenges is how,
what is the language to use for quantum computing?
But there are people that are working on that.
And, and as I say, there are, there's online now,
you can go online and there's a whole thing about, you know,
play with a quantum computer.
And it's, you know, the idea of IBM is they want to try
to get people engaged and start to explore what they can do.
But you go on and you write, you know,
you can program something and it sends bits,
it sends zeros and ones to the quantum computer down to,
you know, down to these, whatever the system is,
there's many, many quantum systems you can use.
And it sends it down there
and it encodes the information in a quantum system.
And then you have to get that out of the quantum system
and then translate it back into your classical computer.
Does that take the fun away from it though?
What fun?
I mean, doesn't that take like the, like,
interacting with a quantum computer?
I mean, you're, you have, there's a 2D
or a regular binary buffer between you
and the quantum computer.
Like, wouldn't it be cool if you could just
somehow directly interface with the quantum computer
and eliminate all of the barriers
that our biological bodies inhibit us from?
Well, it's not so much the biological bodies.
Well, except that, you know, look, we are entities
that interact with our world through our senses.
So at some, you know, at some level,
you have to interact with physical things.
You know, the fact is quantum, you know,
we can't possibly imagine, you know,
we don't have the ability to pick up an atom, right?
So at some level, you need something
that actually interacts with the atom.
And it's certainly nothing that we ever could do.
We can't, you know, we can't pick an atom up and move it.
We can do it with a lot of devices and they do.
In fact, you know, we can move atoms now actually.
I mean, we can actually move them around.
But, you know, not with our hands,
we have, you know, we have these huge electron microscopes
and, you know, scanning tunneling microscopes
that can actually, you know, there are enormous machines
to interact with something at a quantum level.
So at some level, you have to have machines that are doing it.
And, you know, we just have to have,
because of our physical limitations,
we have to interact with a machine that can do it.
We can't, you know, I don't think there's ever any hope
that we're gonna actually be able to,
you know, what's gonna change?
We just, you can't move an atom with your fingers, you know?
No matter how good a surgeon you are.
Right.
So you need equipment to do it.
We are dependent on tools at a certain, at that level.
You know, I mean, it is an interesting philosophical question
is in a sense, you know, at the quantum level,
we know it through the tools.
We know the world at the fundamental level at CERN too.
It's not like anybody ever really sees in a classical sense,
you know, with light, a Higgs boson.
It's all, it's all many steps.
It's all measured, right?
It's all measured from these devices that we've, you know,
we've come up with our tools.
I mean, our tools, you know, the way we understand
the universe is basically through whatever tools
we use to observe it.
And so, you know, at the macroscopic level,
we have our eyes and, you know, there's some perception of it,
but our picture of the universe is based on, you know,
our biology of how we see things.
But as soon as we get beyond things that we can see,
then it's based on the data and tools that we have
and the picture that we draw from that, right?
I mean, we will never, you know, what does an atom look like?
It's based on something that these machines
give us an answer to on the picture of.
So there's that abstraction of, you know, the way
the universe looks is based on the way we look at it,
whatever tools we have, the tool looks at it this way
and it can detect this part of it,
then we construct an image of it from that.
Didn't we recently actually get like an image
from a telescope of a black hole?
Yeah, multiple telescopes, yeah, I mean.
So we have an idea of what it could look like.
Yeah, it looks like a black hole with a ring around it.
No, it does, it was very exciting.
I mean, it was, you know, and again, it was,
but again, they are, you know, telescope, it's an abstraction.
It's looking at electromagnetic radiation
of these big radio telescopes that are looking
and it was basically done by using multiple ones
all around the earth.
So yes, but it is true and again, it's another example
where we've created this image, but it's based on, you know,
I mean, these things that, you know,
look like radar dishes and, you know, telescopes,
I mean, they're gaining all this data
and then they combined it all, you know,
in very sophisticated ways to make a composite image
of a black hole, which was, yeah,
it was very exciting to actually see, you know,
what this looks like and, you know,
the hope is that we can study it and study the, you know,
what happens around the perimeter and things like that.
So look, I mean, the idea of a black hole was initially
just an anomaly.
I mean, it was in Einstein's theory of general relativity
that there was this, you know, this problem
that it predicted these things
where everything blew up basically.
And for a long time, it just was regarded
as a mathematical anomaly.
And then, you know, people began to think,
well, actually maybe, can we study these things?
Maybe it's not just something where the math falls apart.
Maybe we can actually learn something
about these mathematically.
And eventually people did begin
to figure things out about it.
And now we think we've, you know,
we predicted that they were existing
and now we've seen one, you know.
And, you know, so first it was just,
we could see that there was evidence of one,
as I talked about before.
You could see things rotating around something
that was black and it was so heavy
that you had to think it might be a black hole.
And now with this new thing that you,
the image that you've seen, they actually see it, you know?
That's amazing.
Yeah, it's amazing.
Well, look, man, I really appreciate you giving me your time.
We just did two hours of a fascinating conversation.
And I hope we can do, I could sit here for 10 hours
and talk to you about this stuff.
I just, it blows my mind, some of these concepts and ideas.
Tell people who are listening,
where they can find out more about what you're doing
with your filmmaking and the other stuff that you're creating.
Yes, so A Particle Fever,
which is the film about the discovery of the Higgs boson,
that's pretty widely available now.
It's on Amazon, iTunes, CuriosityStream, many places.
And the bit player about Claude Shannon
and information theory is now on Amazon Prime
and on CuriosityStream.
And I'm, you know, my next,
another project I'm working on now
is an adaptation of Richard Powers' book,
The Goldbug Variations.
And so that'll be a fiction film
and it's looking at overlaps in music and biology
and molecular biology and, again, exploring this idea
of what is the best way to look at the world
and to live in it, so.
When do you play on releasing that one?
Well, I'm gonna shoot it first.
So, yeah, it's a script right now, yes, so.
Well, awesome, man.
Good.
I really appreciate your time
and it was great meeting you, Mark.
Great, well, it was a pleasure.
And I hope that answered some of your questions
and that some of your listeners will be intrigued as well.
