Hello, world. This episode of the podcast is all about making money. Brian Aponte is
a major player in Florida real estate. He also owns millions of dollars worth of collectible
trading cards, which he's constantly buying and selling every single day. I met Brian
at a restaurant the other day, and he must have done 10 deals on the phone within the
hour I was there with him. It's truly amazing the way his mind works. And I immediately
knew I had to get him on the podcast to get a better understanding of his perspective
on real estate, money, and investing. Please enjoy this invigorating episode with Brian
Aponte.
What's up, Brian?
Not much, brother.
How are you?
Good. It was great to meet you the other day, man. Thank you for coming and doing this.
Oh, it was a pleasure.
This is going to be fun.
You got it.
Tell me, for people out there listening, give me a brief little background on who you
are, where you came from, and what you do. What are you all about?
So basically, I was...
Talk a little bit.
Yeah.
So basically, I'm from Jersey, originally.
Yeah.
Perth Damboy, real close to Elizabeth, Newark, around that area. And what I do is I just
buy and sell anything, mostly real estate, vintage cards, baseball cards, stuff like
that, jewelry, watches, anything that has a liquid value. So growing up, I was born
in 1970. My uncle used to own hardware stores, liquor stores. So I was always brought up
in the grind.
A little bit closer.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Because in reality, there's really no money in school. And back in those days, back in
1976, Carter was the president. We had a gasoline shortage. The interest rates were like 20%.
So the only way to make money was to have cash, just like today. But the world's changed
a little bit. But so the buying and selling game is where the money's at. So that being
said, I moved out here in 19... I would say like 1989, 1990. I had to get out of Jersey
because it was just nothing but trouble. So when I came here, my first job actually was...
I was a custodian at a high school in Brandon, making $6 an hour, walking seven, eight miles
a day to go to work. It was my favorite time of my life, the grind. So then I bought a
little flea market booth in Sefner, Florida, baseball cards from this lady for $2,000.
Within two, three months, just kept stacking my bread, had about $20,000, $30,000. I went
to Tampa. I bought a little baseball card shop in Fiesta Plaza. Then I started hitting
the country, going to the big shows, buying, selling. I've always been a big sports fan.
And then in the meantime, I would only work maybe Friday, Saturday, Sunday, due to grind.
And then I'd meet people, buy their collections, just buy out their tables. And then one thing
led to another. And then you just deal with different businesses, jewelry stores, pawn
shops, furniture, bail bonds, real estate. And real estate's a good hustle because it
has a lot of zeros at the end. So if you buy something, let's say you buy a pair of sneakers
for 500 bucks and you sell them for 800. Sounds cool. We only make it $300. What are you going
to do with $300? You buy a house for $100,000, you flip it for a buck 30, you just make 30
So the bottom line is to make money, you just got to be well versed, well rounded and you
got to be able to pull that trigger immediately. Because in any game, nobody wants to deal
with a procrastinator. It's either you're in or you're out. There's really no in between.
Bro, when I first met you, I think it was like, yesterday was two days ago, I think. You reminded
me instantly of like, you had, you were like just Tony Soprano to me. Like you were, you're
so much energy, you hustle at your hands are in so many different things, so many different
types of businesses. You have sneaker stores scattered throughout the state. You have this
warehouse full of trading cards. Like how much money worth of trading like baseball cards
and basketball cards do you have? So let's get back to the beginning where your question
like the like the sneaker store. Yeah, that belongs to a friend of mine and I was like
involved in the beginning and I still am little involved. It's it's a slower paced fast paced
game. Let me tell you what I mean by that. Then we'll get to the cards. It's a hustle. It's
a grind and you're making $50 $60 a pair. You got to push a lot of pairs. You got to do a lot
of work. You got to pay high rents. And you know, it's just a it's a good game for somebody who's
looking to make a million a year. You know what I mean? I still work with the same people. But
the trading card, the baseball cards, this is that's a hustle I like. But to answer your
question, the value of what I have several million, but I constantly buy and sell every
day. The baseball card game is something that's really come up a lot because it's it's an asset
without a paper trail. And everybody's interested in it. And like I was telling you, it's sort of
like artwork, but on a different level because everybody knows about sports and everybody
wants to get involved. What's the number one most valuable card that you own? You know, I
own some PSA Jordan 10 rookie cards, you know, they were bringing like 750 to 800,000. You know,
they've cooled off a little bit to about 400 to 500,000. Basically, because, you know, it's a new
asset class that that the smart money's coming into. But you know, I have 1988 flare basketball,
I probably have 800 graded packs. You know, the 10s are three, four thousand each. But I have a
lot of different stuff, you know, from Mickey Mantle to Ty Cobb to Babe Ruth to Jordan. You
know, I don't really do much with the newer stuff because they're very volatile. And I'm not
interested in losing money.
Sorry to interrupt. But this episode of the podcast is brought to you by our sponsor, Ridge
Wallet. For years, society has been shoving dumbass, awkward, bulgy George Costanza wallets down
our throats, carrying around old receipts, pictures of their cats and gift cards from 1999.
Well, hold on to your hot dogs, folks. This fucking thing holds like 12 credit cards, and even has
room for your cash in the back and get a clip. Or they got like they make like a strap that goes on
the back, which is really dope. And this thing is so goddamn rugged, it comes with a lifetime
warranty. Ridge Wallet is so confident that you'll like their shit. They'll let you test drive it
for 45 days and give you a full refund if you can't handle it. Don't be one of those fuck boys
carrying around a big leather sack of potatoes in their back pocket. Get 10% off today with free
worldwide shipping and returns by going to ridge.com slash concrete. That's ridge.com slash
K O N C R E T E and use the code concrete check out. Please don't be a fucking nerd. Get a Ridge
Wallet today.
And you do all these transactions on eBay with the cards? Yeah, we'll buy collections. You know,
a guy called me up here, I got this collection 1957 tops baseball set just use that as an
example. So we look at what they have. Okay, cool. We just add it up, figure it out and just buy
from them. Then we get the cards graded. We'll just, you know, whatever we do with it, you know,
you just crack the collections down. That's what I did for numerous years. I should travel the
country, you know, spend a few thousand, buy, you know, 100,000 here, 200,000 there, get some
graded wholesale, some retail. It's just a fast paced business. How do you have time to balance
all the real estate you're doing and trading buying and selling cards every day? Because you're
like constantly doing this all the time. How do you find the time? Well, when you look at real
estate, it's a fast paced, but it's really not. And you just have to use your mind. You have to
take your mind in different avenues. It's like when like, let me give an example, new
construction, you already know what you're getting into because you already know what the
product's worth after before you even build it. If a house is selling for 300 a foot and you're
building for 100 a foot, your vow, your profits based on what you pay for the dirt minus your
expenditures. And then at the same time, you're constantly looking for different avenues to
make money. Like, you know, I've used car lots. I mean, that's a dead business. But you know,
there's some money there. Anything that makes money and it doesn't take swallow a lot of my
time that I could pull on off to one of my people at my camp, we'll figure it out. Because
there's always some way where and when to make money. But in the real estate, I like real estate
because everybody's your client, your mother, your father, your sister, your brother, your
cousin, your neighbor, because everybody lives somewhere. Every everybody, it's a necessity,
a luxury. It's, it's an avenue to just make a lot of money, especially in today's day and age,
because the rental income is very high. And we're in a market that's growing and the interest
rates are low. What kind of real estate do you own? Well, you know, we own commercial real estate,
trailer parks, single family homes, multiple family. But when I own them, to be honest with you,
I did a bad job because I don't like to own much. I like to buy and sell it immediately. You know,
I've probably bought a few thousand houses in Tampa alone. My thing is get it under contract and
call one of my members in my team to dump it immediately. 90% of the stuff I bought, I bought
it in one day and sold it the same day. But the ones the stuff I do, yeah, that's insane. And I
really think about it logically, if you're buying $100 bills for 90, how fast can you sell them?
So because everything has a dump price, you know what I mean? If you're looking at an asset,
you already know what it's worth based on the wholesale value. And if you're looking at the
retail value, you're looking at it wrong. The money's made when you purchase it, not when you sell
it, you only realize your profits as you sell. But now the game has changed because, you know,
we live here in Florida, Tampa, St. Pete area. So there's a lot of people moving here with no
state tax. Everybody wants to be here. And the properties have gone way up due to the fact that
people from up north, Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Boston, and in California,
they're tired of dealing with the state taxes dealing with a lot of liberal liberalism,
they just want to come here and get out of that. And their houses are worth so much more than ours.
So it's easier to it's easier for them to purchase them. Wow. But what's the most amount
of houses you bought at one time? And didn't you tell me you bought like a shitload of houses
at once like a couple hundred? Well, you know, I sold one guy like 56 houses, I think in 90 days
is buying sell the same day. But you know, we bought 18 unit buildings, we've bought beaches
on the walk properties on the water, you name it, I bought it. The thing is, like when you say
what's the most I bought at one time, obviously, I think, you know, we could buy 50. I think we
bought 36 houses from one guy in a deal, the way you structure it on the finance owner. So you
always want to pay cash because it's easier to acquire. But at the same time, you want to use
owner finance, this way you could control the deal with the seller's money, you could manipulate
the product using their money. Yeah, that's another thing that you were telling me about,
you don't use banks. We had a we had a long discussion about that, because there's a difference.
We were talking about another guy who I used to deal with, we won't mention his name, but
he uses banks and you were saying that why use banks? Well, the thing with the banks, the banks
they want to lend money to people who don't need money or people who are desperate,
because the government backs FHA. So if you work at a fast food chain, and you're making
a tad below above poverty, they're going to lend you money because it's almost their forced,
the Dodd, you know, Frank Dodd acting all that. So a guy who has money, and who's going to sell
the property immediately, and they look at your track record, they don't want to lend you money
because they can't see the profit in it for them. The only way they're going to lend you money is if
you leverage it, and hold it for a certain amount of time, as a rental asset. And rentals are cool
for certain people, because it's like a fixed income, but I don't really care for the rental
business. No, you don't like the long term. Well, let me put it to you like this. Let's say you buy
a property for $100,000, use round numbers, and you rent it for a thousand a month, you're bringing
it in $12,000 a year. By the time you pay your property manager, expenses for taxes, insurance,
maintenance, you might net $8,000. So you're working on an eight cap. That's good for an investment
company because they're borrowing at 2%. So they're 400 times in their money. But for a guy like me
who bought the house for $100,000, I could sell it for $120,000 in one day. So I can make $20,000,
I can make 20% of my money in one day, when I can make $8,000 in a year and deal with the headaches.
Because most tenants, 90% of the time is a headache.
But how do you find these buyers? So like, when you say you find a house right now,
you can go buy it right now and sell it. Like, how do you know who you're going to sell it to?
You already, you just have like a Rolodex people, you know, you can just like,
I know how to sell to this guy. So, you know, on my phone, I probably got a couple thousand
people's numbers in my phone over the years. And I know who buys what and what area and what
they're paying, how they're buying it. And, you know, there's a high demand for the asset,
you know what I mean? So it's going to sell immediately at the right price.
Let's take the $100 bill example. For $98, you're going to have a line a mile long. For $101,
you won't have one client. So you have to know the bottom, the bottom line, the razor thin line,
where to buy and where to sell at. That's where the money's made.
How do you, so, so you, I like, I could look, you tell me Tampa, Florida, like I, like in the city
limits, I know most, I'd say 95% of the streets. Okay. I don't look at GPS. I already know what
the house is worth before I get there. Right. Because everything is based on retail minus
the expenditures minus your expenses. And most people want to make a certain amount of dollar
amounts. So you already know what they're going to pay before they buy it. Okay. That makes a lot
of sense. So let's get back to the, let's get back to the sports shit, the baseball cards.
No problem. Are you going to buy or sell any cards today? Like, is this a daily thing you do?
Yeah, daily. Are you like riding the market day to day? Are you, are there any cards,
any things that you hold, hold out on long term? Definitely. Like the best cards to hold are the
vintage cards. Like you want to buy stuff that's going to go up in value based, based on the story
of the player. Like let me give you an example, Babe Ruth, she's probably the greatest baseball
player ever to play the game. So you have a lot of people that are looking for that card,
and a lot, there's more collectors than product. So the grading company is great from a scale of
one to 10. And then they have a population report of how, how many cards have been slabbed in certain
grade. Like I buy cards now, let's take an example for $10,000 that I sold for a thousand three years
ago. So you want to buy the old cards and the newer cards, they have a lot of height because a lot
of young people who are flipping crypto and making money in the stock market, this is what
they're seeing. But at the same time, when you're spending $300,000, $400,000 on a card of a guy
who's been in the league three years, you don't really know the outcome of his career. So you're
basically making a bet. Like me, I don't make bets. If it's not a guarantee, I just don't want to
deal with it. Right. That makes sense. You know, I get in the prop, I get in the product cheap,
I try to buy as many as I can. And the more I buy, the more they're worth because I'm the one
that's going to drive up the price. What other kind of businesses are you in? Well, I dabble in
anything that makes money. You know what I mean? Like, look, yesterday a friend of mine hit me up
that he's a, he's a realtor. He's a good friend of mine. He's actually selling a property of mine
for like $4 million. And he hit me with this Eureka coin. He said, Brian, look at this Eureka coin.
It was $1.90. It was $1.90. You can pull it to you. It was $1.90. And I think the last night
he hit me up at about 2 p.m. yesterday. And the last I checked about an hour ago was at $5.50.
Really? Yeah, look at that Eureka coin. Neither did I. Well, 99% of the things today,
I've never heard of. See, that's why, you know, I jump in and out, you know, and then I'll play
to wave and, you know, I'll day trade and I'll make 70, 80 transactions in an hour due to the fact
that you never go broke on a profit. So if you can make your little in and out money, just do it.
Right. Because I don't feel comfortable with any stock unless when you look at the balance sheet,
their assets are greater than their debt. Like, like Macy stock last year, I think a drop to like
five bucks. When you looked at their their balance sheet, their building in Manhattan alone was
worth more than their stock plus their debt. So I bought a lot of that. How do you find their balance
sheet? Well, you know, any stock broker, anybody knows about stocks, we show you how to work that.
It's really not that interesting, but it's a common sense. You can like go online or something
and like download it. Yeah, just talk to a stock guy. Hey, look, what do you think about this?
What do you think about that? Okay. But like the stock game is really not my hustle. I just
don't find any pleasure in buying something that's intangible. I like to actually feel and look and
smell the product. Yeah, that's what a lot of real estate guys do. They're like, oh, I want to drive
you around and show you my buildings. You know what I mean? They get like a high off of off of like
driving around and saying like, look, I own this piece of land, I own this giant building.
There's like something to that. Well, the reason being is because you already know the worth,
you already see it. When you're dealing with stocks, you got millions of dollars riding on
somebody else's knowledge or somebody else's fear, because stocks are mostly news and emotions.
Yeah, it's just an emotional play. You know, I mean, it's just hard. It's hard to control that
when you when you're a guy that's been doing business and you've come from nothing,
you have a lot of insecurities. And the biggest insecurity that I've noticed with the thousands
of people that I've dealt with is not knowing the future. And when you're dealing with something
that's intangible, you don't know the future. But when you look at other people who've come from
money, and they make it easily, they just they don't really have fear because they don't know
what bad is. You know what I mean? It's like, let me give you an example. Let's pretend that your
father was worth $100 million. And you lived in a sky rise and he had Bentley coops and phantoms.
And you know, that's all you know, you go to your sheltered in your life. And then he throws you out
in the middle of the road, gives you a million dollars here, and then you're driving a E class
bent. You think you're doing horrible. But those people have never starved. They've never ate
tomato sandwiches on five day old bread. Right. So it's hard to respect that hustle.
You know what I mean? So when when you come from nothing, you see the value of anything.
You see the value of one night staying in a motel. You see the value of getting to the hotel
at 601 p.m. a.m. So you could stay an extra day. You see value in different things. You see a value
in buying getting a used car license and buying a car and using it for free and reselling it at
the auction next week after you detailed it made 500 bucks basically on a on a floor plan.
So you see different aspects of life when you go to other countries and you see how people live,
and then you come back and see, wow, you know what, nobody in the United States should ever
complain because you were born in greatness because you already have a major head start.
Why do you think people from other countries come here within three, four years? They own businesses,
houses. Meanwhile, you have a lot of people in this country. All they want to do is cry,
and their net worth is negative because they don't understand what that is.
So if you once you understand what that is, you'll realize that no matter what,
you're going to make it as long as you're steady. You know what I mean? Yeah.
Is there any point where you can just kind of like sit back and relax and kind of stop the
hustle? Do you do you think that one day we're going to stop hustling and just relax and enjoy it?
Or do you think that's going to something that's
No, I think it's something that's embedded in my mind and my heart and in my blood,
because this is all I've ever known and this is all I've ever did. I honestly,
I'm never happy when I take a day off because to me, taking a day off is just a waste of your mind.
You know, obviously, you have kids and you have your wife and you want to maintain that that level
of respect and have fun. But your mind never stops. So, you know, like I go to the gym in the morning
just to take a long drive just to think about my next move. So when I get to push the weights or
punch the bag, it's just basically a routine to figure out what's next. Yeah. And you know,
like I honestly love downturn markets because you actually make more money. Because when you see
people's ribs showing, then they get nervous and they start dumping their assets. When you're like
when you're in a when you're in a market as we're seeing right now, you know, COVID has
affected a lot of things and it's made a lot of people filthy rich. They never had any money.
Who's it made filthy rich? Well, when you look at when you look at the world today,
you look at these big companies who've profited off off off of this. And you've seen like companies
like Amazon and Internet companies, you know, just basic companies that you already know,
the Walmarts, the Amazons, they're they're making money out of people's fear.
Why do you think there was no toilet paper? Because they would buy because people,
the media embedded in your mind fear, because that's what makes money for them.
So as people fear, you see their moves and you understand the person by the moves they make
when they're in fear. See, a guy like me and I don't mean to act like I'm anybody special,
but I don't fear anything except time. That's the only thing that moves. So you have to follow
the time. Exactly. You know, I've we spoke on that the other day, you can't buy time.
So that's got to be your most precious asset. Everything else in life is replaceable. You
know, obviously, human beings are not replaceable, but every other physical every other thing in life
that you could purchase is replaceable. Getting back to the baseball cards. That's why they have
such a high value. If they're extremely rare, they're unreplaceable. So people want to buy them
because it brings back a point of their childhood. It brings the ego out of them.
Me same thing with pain with anything, anything that's rare has a lot of value.
Yeah, like real estate. I like real estate because
they don't create new dirt. In reality, the only thing you're buying is the dirt.
The actual building is just a liability because it's depreciating every single day.
It's the dirt that's going up, not the building. How much, how much do you fuck with cryptocurrency?
You know, I've dabbled it in here and there and I got lucky and I bought some. I don't really
like talking about it because it bothers me that I own it because I feel like I made free money
and I don't really care for it. And when I talk about it, people get excited and that bothers me
because it takes credit away from me. So I rather just let not even talk about that.
Yeah, because a lot of people listen to it, love it. And it's like,
Yeah, no, most definitely. But if you it's like stumbling on a diamond ring, you know, the floor.
I mean, I own some and I've made a few dollars, but that doesn't determine who I am. It's just like
it's just like buying a car and finding, like I said, a Rolex in the middle.
I don't really I don't respect anything that that that I didn't earn. Yeah.
That was just luck. What do you think about? But what do you think about the future of it?
Do you think there's do you think potentially in the next 10, maybe 20 years, it could be
something that's legitimate that replaces the financial system we have now?
I'll give you my point of view on crypto. Like Bitcoin, I think there's 21 million
bitcoins. Yeah. And I don't think there's going to be any more generated. And I think
the people have value in Bitcoin, A, because it's manipulated very heavily,
and B, it's the fear of the US currency. If you look at this pandemic, we've already
created $8 trillion of nothing. Yeah, it's insane. So I think our debt was 23 trillion
previous. Now it's they recreate another eight. So a third of our world of our overall debt
has a year in a year. Yeah. So people look at crypto as a hedge against whatever else they're
doing. Yeah, it's just the way I look at it. Like I hedge a lot of things. But I think crypto's cool.
But if they outlaw crypto, where you can't use it, it'll probably take a big dip. And now the IRS
is getting heavily involved. If you spend it, you got to pay taxes on it. So I don't think it's
going to be, I don't think it's going to go up as fast as people are predicting. I mean, it's
hedging, it's hovering around 55 to 60,000 at its peak, even though last year around this time
was about 4,000. It might generate, you know, higher and higher and higher yields. But I mean,
it's just, I own it, but I don't really care to talk about it because it doesn't make me who I am.
And it bothers me even owning it. Well, it's just interesting. I mean, it's interesting because a lot
some people will buy it and just hold it forever. Like me, I don't know what the
fuck I'm doing with it. I have a little bit of money in it. And I just kind of sit there and
watch it. When it dips, it dips. But I don't take money out when it gets up or buy more when it
goes down. Or when it goes down, I do buy more. But when it goes up, I don't sell it because I'm
like, well, maybe it'll keep going up. Or maybe it's smarter when it goes up a little bit to pull
it out, all of it out. And then when it goes down, put it all back in. I don't know. Yeah. So how I
play it is once it hits a certain number, I target, I sell it all. And then when it dips,
I buy it back because I've already made a lot of money just moving whatever I have.
But once again, it's like a hobby for me. It's like I'm driving out of red.
It's like playing fantasy football. Yeah, kind of sort of. But you know, and it's a lot easier
than real estate or baseball cards or use or vintage cards or diamonds or watches because
you're buying and selling in seconds. Yeah. You know, for sure. What about NFTs? We talked a
little bit. You know, it's funny when we mentioned that, and I'm like, wow, this is pretty amazing
how people are just buying pictures of nothing. I personally don't understand it.
Me neither. I don't think anybody does. I do see the value in it because you have a lot of people
today who don't know how to interact with people and they live in a box. Yeah. So they'll have
a thousand Facebook friends that have like two or three real friends. And if they walk
somewhere, their head is down on the floor and they don't know anyone. And the unfortunate reality
is I think that's what the world's becoming. See, like I interact with thousands of people
because that's what I like to do. You're a real estate guy. That's what real estate guys do,
though. That's true. But I don't really consider that a real estate person because I only deal
with the same people every single day. And when I meet new people, I just try to throw them on one
of other guys because unless they want to sell me something because real estate is basically
you don't really need money to make money in real estate. What you need in real estate is either A,
a buyer or B, a product. So like what I mean, let me tell you what I mean by that. Let's pretend
your mother has a house that she wants to sell, right? And it's worth 500,000 and it needs work.
And I say, hey, how much you want for this house? Give me 300. So I say, look, I'm willing to pay
320. So anything under that 320, that's money you made. So if you get it for 200, you just made
120,000. Whatever I sell it for is irrelevant. Second, if I have a property and say, hey,
look, I want to sell this for 250. Anything over that 250 is the money that you make.
So that's why it's easy to make money without money in the real estate business. You just need
to have somebody in your camp that can close. You mean come up with hard money? Come up with the
cash to buy because it's hard to make money with hard money. It's really not an option for me.
What do you mean it's hard to make money with hard money? Well, hard money.
All you mean is like doing like hard money loans? Yeah, hard money lending. But yeah,
no, but getting back to that point. But what if I don't have money and I want to do that? What if I
don't have the cash, the capital to do it? And then you got to do a hard money loan.
Like I was explaining previously in the conversation, I would try to get a loan from the seller.
Right, right, right, right. Okay. Because if you get a loan with the seller, then you don't have
to pay for appraisals. You don't have to pay points on the loan. You don't have to, you know,
beg daddy who basically is the bank to help you. I mean, you're going to be in a positive
position instead of playing behind the eight ball. Right. But what if this, I mean, a lot of sellers,
a lot of people who own single family homes, they don't have that kind of that kind of money.
Well, you want to target properties that are owned by the property owner that doesn't have any debt.
Because remember, you make money on real estate by controlling the asset. Owning it is just
a piece of paper, a deed. You get a HUD, you go to a title company, now you own the property.
But you're not going to own it that long. So if you could get a lease option even,
if you could get, if you could buy a house for $300,000, here's $5,000, I have a recorded
lease option that I could assign to another buyer. So you could make money controlling that asset
without physically owning that asset. Like I said, real estate. Now you're getting into options,
which is more options. Can you explain like basic for dummies, what an option is?
Well, basically on a lease option is this, you own the house, right? And I make a lease to rent
with the option to purchase it with the agreed time and the agreed price. Okay. So and then what
you put in the lease is in the purchase contract, you have an assignable option to sell. So let's say
you sell me your house for $200,000. And then my buddy wants to buy it for $225,000. So he just pays
me the $25,000 and he, he takes over the purchase. This way I made money with very little money out
of my pocket. Because when you're first starting in the real estate game with limited capital,
you need to acquire capital by any means necessary, bringing other people to the table,
you know, selling their properties for them, you know, stuff like that.
Is it hard to find new deals to make money on? Or are people just blowing up your phone
all day every day? I mean, are you on the computer like scouring websites for shit for sale?
No, I never use the computer. Really? Never use a computer. No, never. My only, my only device I
use is my telephone. And the reason being is because I have a lot of people in my camp
that do certain things and I call them and I say, this is what I'm looking for. This is what I'm
selling. This is what I got. So new construction is the flavor of the year. So it's like I hire
an engineers and I hire people to do the work while I own the asset, then you hire a builder,
then you hire a property manager to manage the project manager. So then you're just paying the
draws or you're paying the city for permitting or whatever it is. I try not to get too deep inside
the game because then they won't, they, people are going to want something from you. They're
going to want to take your time. They're going to want to take your money. They're going to want
to pick your brain. And at the same time, that's value. So I prefer to just have somebody on deck
that they could just work through me and pay them. But at this current time to buy property is very
difficult because the market is extremely hot and the assets are very rare. Yeah, it's insane.
It's been getting hotter and hotter over the past year. Yeah. Well, you're dealing in the
number one state. You know, I think we're the third largest populated state in the country.
Yeah, it's fucking bonkers. Yeah, you were telling me we got more heads here than New York.
New York. Yeah, definitely. We have like 23 million. I think they have 21.
And but New York is on the decline. People are going to start moving here left and right in groves.
Oh, they're coming here and on growth droves already. Exactly. I think they're just tired of
the politics. Yeah, politics controls a lot of people's thinking. Yeah, it does, unfortunately.
Can you walk me through one of these deals that you're talking about these new construction deals?
Like what what do you look for? Like, obviously, you buy it starts with buying land and if you
gotta find some land. So basically, let me take a sip of this. Take some sick of it. I like this.
Yeah, murder your thirst. Got it. Alright, so you look at the area and you see what the new
houses are bringing. So let's say we're building at 110 a foot due to the fact that the wood has
gone up and the trusses are hard to find. So whatever. So if you're selling at $110 a foot
and you build a 2,500 square foot house, right? So the cost to build a new house is about 110 a
foot, right? Plus your impact fees, the price at a dirt. So you got to work backwards. So let's
say that let's just use round numbers again. Let's say the house is selling for 300 a foot
and you build 2000 square feet. Okay, so you already know your retail number $600,000. So you're
probably going to have to back out about 8% because you got to pay when you sell it real estate
commissions and closing costs. Got it. All right. So you're going to net 92% of your sale price.
Okay. So let's say 92% of 600. Let me see. It's 540 plus. That's like 550 to 2000. So you're going
to net 550 on that sale, right? And if it's 2000 square feet and it costs you two and a quarter
to build it. So now you got 325 in between profit and dirt and all fees. Okay. So if you could buy
that dirt for $150,000 at the end of the day, you're going to make about $150,000 on that deal.
And but that's including if you're paying cash for everything, you're not using anybody else's
money. No, no, no financing or anything. Right. No financing. Wow. But that's a lot of that.
That takes a long time though. That's like a long time. You're looking at about six months,
but remember if you got six months to build a house, probably like three to four months,
but let's say you got 20 or 30 of those going at one shot. Holy spot. Every week you're cash
in a check and then you buy dirt. Like we make money by buying large parcels of dirt and knowing
the future land use and doing a PD, which is a plan development and built getting the plans
ready. So we take that and we sell it to the builders. So like I have a property I bought
for $250,000 and it's costing me like $50,000 to get it to where it needs to be Pete plan
development for 60 units. So I'm going to be in that property for like 300,000 and I'm a listed
for $1.8 million. So once I sell it, let's say I take one five after fees, I net one three.
I'll make a million dollars on that asset with $300,000 out of pocket
because I happen to get the dirt cheap enough and I know the zoning and I know what I can do with it.
So obviously knowledge is always supreme. So you have to know what you're doing before you do it.
And when you're selling that piece of property, you're selling the dirt and you're selling,
there's already permits in place to build. You're selling what it's going to be
and you're going to sell that to a guy who does build and sells because he's going to take a 1031
exchange, which is basically he's going to use the proceeds from his last sale to do the same
thing over and over again. This way he doesn't have to pay the government high taxes. So basically
they're buying a piece of property turnkey ready to be built on. You have the permits,
you got the plans, you got the builder, everything. And because a lot of builders,
they don't really have much money. They use the bank's money. So the time once going back to
our original statement, time is very precious. So they're using our asset that we purchase,
develop it for them to get ready. So that's how we make a large substantial hit. Okay.
Wow. So do you do any 1031 exchanges? Not really because I move pretty fast and I don't mind
paying the government because it's easier for me and it's just less headaches. Yeah, it's a lot,
it's a lot of stress to chase that window. And I'm the kind of guy that I just, I just like a simple
life. You know, I, you know, sometimes I go crazy, do me, but I just like to have fun and make money.
What's your day? Walk me through what your day, what's a typical day in the life of Brian Aponte?
It depends on the season of the environment we're in. You know, every day is different.
You know, with COVID, it's changed a lot than normal times. But let's just say like a day like
lately. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll get up at 530 in the morning. I'll put the TV on. I watch Squawk
Box at six. I'll leave by 620 to go to the gym. I hit the gym, talk to my trainer, work out for
45 minutes, then I go to a little restaurant, have a cup of coffee, go home, take a shower. It depends
if it's because Monday, Wednesday and Friday, I do boxing, but then I take my daughter to school,
I have four kids, have one in middle school, and then I just start hitting the phones nonstop.
I call the same people 10 to 15 times a day, force them to act, because if you let somebody slip,
then they're not going to make money for you. You see what I'm saying? A lot of people are content
in their lives. Yeah. So whenever you're content is when you're really going to lose. So I try to
push the people in my team to do different things. It's like this, what do we got going on? What do
we got new? What's closing? What's happening? Okay, search this. What deals do you have? What
new construction projects? What owner finance can we get? What hotel? What motel? What land?
What can we buy? That makes sense. Then meanwhile, I have another partner that does the baseball cards
with me. So I'm on eBay doing the cards. Okay, cool. Let's buy this. Let's try to buy a bunch of
these. Let's get these graded. And then, you know, I just look for any opportunity that makes
mathematical sense. So you got your partner in the cards, would you say he's more knowledgeable
about what's going on in the card market? Like at this specific moment? Well, basically, he's
like a retired attorney and he does like teach his kids this. So yeah, we're kind of like we've
been in the business maybe for like 35 years. Go ahead. I was going to say like he he's more
the expert. You're just the guy that's pushing him to like do more deals, make more money. And
you're just I think we're both experts because we've both been in the game and I've traveled the
nation. I did 35 big shows a year for like 10 years. And I've been a lot of athletes hung out
with celebrities bought and sold big collections. You know, I have a lot of crazy stories too. So
the point of the matter is the card game to me is more fun than the real estate game because
you're picking and choosing. And even though it's rare, it's readily available. When you deal with
real estate, it's like you're finding a needle in a haystack because the the it's very limited.
What do you mean when you say it even though it's rare, it's readily available?
Because eBay is a dumping ground. A lot of people want to realize profits on stuff that
they inherited purchases of stuff that they had years ago. So they're the black sheep of the
business because they're the dumpers. So let's say Michael Jordan rookie in a certain grade is
worth whatever dollars as soon as it goes up in value, you'll see a lot of people just start
dumping on eBay because they want to realize the profit. So a guy like me will come and hope they
drop and then I'll start picking chipping them off. Boom, boom, boom. And then when the dumpers
are not dumping, then I'll start buying to buy it now to make the values keep going up. Because
if I have a hundred of one item and it's $5,000, then I could create it to jump to $10,000. Now
every single one of my cards is now worth $10,000 each. That's how you make money. Holy shit.
So you don't make money in selling, you make money in buying. Bro, have you ever seen that
movie with Adam Sandler? It's it's a came out a couple years ago where he's a I think he's in
New York or somewhere and he's the jewelry guy, the jewelry guy. So he deals with Kevin Garnett
and he's he has an old. Yes. I mean, that movie made no sense because I used to own jewelry stores
and he needed money to pay debt. He had about 100,000. He had about 50,000 grams of gold
and gold scraps out. At the time, gold was 2000 an ounce and 10 carat is 41 percent gold,
14 carats, 58 percent and 18 is 75 percent. So he could have took the gold and scrapped it.
But I get the yeah, he was on 47th Street in the Diamond District. Bro, that motherfucker was like
a roach, a cockroach running around fucking Robin Peter to pay Paul fucking like. Well,
yeah, the jewelry game is a strong hustle because the diamonds are the most manipulated item on
earth. There's more than people. Right. But you know, that's not my expertise, even though I own
a lot of diamonds and I own a lot of jewelry. Yeah, it's just the card game is different because
it seems like it's a similar like kind of lifestyle, though. It seems like it's a similar
mindset. That dude's mindset, his fucking just sleep and breathe fucking making money and paying
people back and fucking trying to rob this guy to pay this guy. And eventually he thinks he's
going to come out even, but he's he's fucking, he's just digging his own grave the whole time.
The problem is he's a compulsive gambler. And you know, it's this in life, like a lot of people
like to spend the money before they have it. So at the same time, they're not really moving forward,
they're moving backward. It's just like in the real estate business, any business,
people are purchasing out what their payments going to be, not what the price is. How do you
think these furniture store gives 60 months, zero credit, zero interest, no credit, because
they're banking on the fact that they need this necessity and they're willing to pay that payment.
They're just cheap. Right. So it's like when you when you're a sharp and you a shark and you swim
with guppies, you're always going to make money due to the fact that you see the hidden value
in people's necessities. How can you control that? And when you're dealing with sports cards and
stuff like that, you're banking on other people's egos. So you look at the guy you see the ego and
you already know how to play him. See, that's the you know, you see my point. Yeah, everybody has
a certain need. So the way to make money is just to have a level head. And don't worry about anything
and just try to figure out your opponent, because everybody's your opponent, they're either with
you or against you. There's really no medium. That's why I only deal with the same amount of
people all the time. Because a lot of people I deal with, they think they could take advantage of me.
And those are my favorite people, because the only way they think they're going to get me is to do
a deal with me. And when they do a deal with me, the odds of me losing are very low. So those are
the people I like to work with, obviously, because people are edgy, pushy, fearful, spiteful, hateful.
Those are the best people to do deals with. Really? Of course, if they hate you, that means you love
them. If somebody hated you, you should love them because they're jealous or they have something
against you. And if they're going to take time out of their life, their most precious asset,
to have a negative thought of you, you must be in the back of their mindsome. So in their storage,
in their mental capacity, you're sitting there. See me, I don't really hate anybody.
Even if you screwed me, I still love you. Because it doesn't make sense, because the little thing
you got from me, I'm going to get it back. Then at the same time, I got that hidden story on you for
life. I like to collect stories more than I like to collect anything else.
Yeah. Well, the businesses that you're in, you must have a fucking plethora of stories.
Yeah, definitely. We're going to get into that another day. I just wanted to come and check you
out, see what we're about, talk about the game. Keeping it real estate is a good game. Real estate
is the key to everything. Can you tell me about that story your cousin was telling me? What was
your cousin telling me? You guys were somewhere in Jersey. Yeah. So basically, like I told you,
we used to do the card hustle. He was a bail bondsman. So one day, we were at the National
Convention in Atlantic City. And we were a little tipsy, and I hadn't seen him in about a year.
So I seen him, and I'm playing craps, roulette, whatever. He's having a good time. And I hear
his voice, and we're screaming, blah, having fun. And he's like, oh, Brian, what's up? It was my
cousin told me I hadn't seen him in a whole Toby. So I think we had like four G's left combined.
We took that house down to about $300,000. You know, the pumpkins or the 2500 chips,
and we had all the chips. And then Tito Ortiz, the MMA guy, remember back in the day? Yeah,
of course. He was there. I'm like, Tito, black or red. Every time he'd give me a color, I'd lose.
And we were buying. Yeah, it was funny. We were buying shots for everybody. You know what I mean?
It was a lot more wild, a lot more vulgar, worse language. But at the end of the day, I think we
hit him for about 60,000. But, you know, it was just fun. But there's thousands of those stories.
You have thousands of those stories. That's fucking wrong. But, you know, that's the that's
the byproduct of dealing with liquor, money, and people with a lot of adrenaline. Yeah. And a lot
of craziness. Egos flying everywhere. That's clashing. Yeah, it's cool. You know, it's fucking crazy.
If you anybody out there who doesn't know anything about what I'm talking about,
just study the game, because the game of the of the real estate, because, you know, you look at a
real OK, cool, Zillow, blah, blah, blah. That's the that's the afterthought of all the dedication
and work that goes to that little sale. You know, I bought properties that I went in there that had
so many code enforcement violations, like, well, how could I even deal with this? Right. But the
more problems, the more money, the worse the problem, the more money you make. Right. Yeah,
absolutely. What do you say? What do you say to somebody who is like small time
wants to get in the real estate game right now? Maybe they they have enough they have enough
credit and capital to maybe get a down payment on like one single family home, right? And they
want to get started in all this. What do they do? So basically, you know, you know, I hear a lot of
like credit has more value than money and blah, blah, blah. I mean, that's true to a certain
extent. But in reality, it doesn't. Because once again, if you're not going to dwell 51 percent
of the of your asset that you're going to purchase, the bank is going to have a difficult time selling
you the asset or excuse me, explain that again if you're not going to do what. So basically,
banks lend money to people who are going to live in the asset of its commercial property.
You use at least 51 percent. OK, so that's, you know, with limited down payment, 3 percent,
like an FHA loan. FHA Conventional with small down payments. But what I would tell anybody
that just that type of person, look, just try to find an area, do the comparables. You know,
I mean, look at sales, try to find something that is not that big that you can add square footage
later on, because it's cheaper to add square footage into buy a big house. Because let me
give you an example. Let's say you buy a two bedroom, one bedroom, two bedroom, one bathhouse,
a thousand square feet in an area that's bringing 350 a foot, right? OK. And you buy the house,
you could always build an addition for $100, $120 a foot. Right. So now you triple doubled to
tripled your money on the added square footage you're doing. So then you could resell that house
and make more money, or you could get a second line of credit, HELOC, or that, you know, then you
could use that money to go make money. So there's very that's what I would do. If I had limited capital,
yeah, I would try to get a house that's very small in a good neighborhood. OK. Then what I would do
is I'd get a GC to get plans to build a square footage, added square footage, then build the
added square footage. Now my house is worth more money and I'd immediately sell it. I wouldn't
get it. I wouldn't get a HELOC anything. I would take the money, then I'd stay in the same neighborhood
by renting a house, take the money, then go buying some jalapes in worse neighborhoods and just keep
re-flipping them. So you would keep doing that same thing, just buying them, buying decent houses,
or decent or bad houses in good neighborhoods, adding square footage. I've done that many times.
You know what, I heard, I was just watching this video, this dude bought a fucking,
like a mansion in California. And he said what the realtors are doing now in California, like
specifically Beverly Hills area, is they're building these fucking like pool cabanas
out of block and they're counting them and they're literally counting them as square footage.
Like even if it's like a couple hundred square feet, like a pool house out back.
Yeah, well think about it. If you have a carport that's 250 square feet and it costs you $30,000
to encapsulate that with heated square footage, and it's 250 square feet and it goes for 300
a foot, that 25 turned into 75. So your cash on cash investment tripled. Right. But can you just do
it yourself? Do you have to fucking go get out and get permits and do all that? Yeah, well you have
to have everything permitted, otherwise it's not going to be on the tax record as legal square footage.
And then when you go to sell it, you don't want any problems. See like taking shortcuts is the
worst thing you can do. Really? Of course. Anytime you try to do something that's not 100% legit,
you're going to get busted. And then that's just going to cost you time, energy and money.
Do it right the first time and you'll never look back. Never screw anybody over. You never
have to sleep bad. You never have to look over your back. Always have to be a man of your word
because in reality, what else do you really have? Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Because
business is a way of life. You know, a lot of people talk to me, hey, Brian, how do I get in
this part time? I said, look, to be honest with you, real estate is not a job. It's not a profession.
It's basically a lifestyle. Yeah. You constantly have to be thinking when I go on vacation,
I try to buy places where I go. Oh, maybe I could buy this here Airbnb or something. Yeah.
You know, you always constantly have to be on a mental grind. I love what you said to me.
Your way of your way of looking at bullies. Yeah, you got to pimp the bullies, brother. You know
why? Because you pimp the bullies. Yeah, let me tell you what I mean. That's fucking dope. Let me
tell you what I mean by that. Let's say you buy a car lot and you got this guy's a salesman and
he's pushing 50 cars a month at Honda. Like how much you making a buck 50 car you making 7500.
How about I pay you 20,000 because you want somebody who's going to work for you,
even if they steal from you, even if you make a profit, it's irrelevant because you have to have
the best people to do the job for you. Why do you need three people when you could have one?
So you bring the best that you can do and just overpay them because when you overpay them,
because everybody has a worth and if you underpaying them, they're going to rob you.
If you're paying them more than what they're worth, they're going to work harder for you.
And when you talk to them and pick up their phone call every time you never miss a meeting
you're there, then they're your family. So basically all you did was capture the best team
and everybody and when you have a good team, you never lose because you're only as weak as your
weakest link. My goal is always to be the weakest link and everything I do, I always want to be
the weakest link. You mean when you say that, you mean you're surrounded by people who are
stronger, smarter, richer. Because think about it logically, if you're the smartest,
best guy in that room, you're definitely in the wrong room. Yeah, yeah, for sure. But what about
when you're doing business, when you're like getting ready to do business with a dude or like
trying to, he's trying to buy something from you or you're trying to buy something from him.
It depends. It's a one time deal. It's irrelevant if it's a multiple time deal, it's different.
But at the same time, I try to treat people the same way. See, a lot of people try to disrespect
me, so I just reciprocate the same thing. Because the way I look at it, if you're going to challenge
or hate me, like I told you before, I'm going to make more money on you. Because if you hate me,
you're definitely going to want to do a deal with me. Yeah. And that's what you mean by pimp the
bullies. No, what I mean by pimping the bullies is this, like I just said, having that guy on your
team. When they're working for you, but I'm saying, nobody works for me. I always have partners. I
don't have any employees. I don't believe in employees are the biggest liability on earth.
You have to have partners. It's better to have a partner than an employee.
Right. I see what you're saying there. But my question to you is when you're dealing with a
bully, that's trying to you're trying to do a deal with them. And they're trying to they're
trying to fucking, you know, hassle you, they're trying to hardball you, you know, lowball you
have to switch it up on them. You know what I mean? It's like this, like, let me give you an example.
Give me an example. What you're talking about. I'll tell you how to switch it up.
You're trying to sell a house for look, I got this house. I need 300,000, 300,000 and the house
ain't that fucking great. I'll give you I'll give you I'll give you 200 cash and I'll close tomorrow.
No problem. It's only cash and it's going to close immediately. Otherwise, you're not even talking to
me. But here's the thing. You only want to pay 200. I got a better idea. Do you have any similar
ones? I'll pay you 250 and I'll close today. Wait, what? Okay, so if you're willing to pay me
to buy your house, exactly. That's my point. If you want to pay 200 and close tomorrow,
how about I buy yours for 250 and close today? So if I'm buying a 250, how am I selling a 200?
So you switch it up on them. Yeah, you feeling me now? Yeah. So you want to pay me 200, I'll pay you
250. So right then in there, they already know they can't dig in my head, because I already know what
I got. God, you see my point. Yeah, I see what you're saying. It's like a psychological game
you're playing with them. Yeah, you know, mind games are easy to play, because that's the only
thing I play. But at the same time, it's like this, it's either you're going to chill with me,
or you're going to be real with me, or you're not going to deal with me. So it's like, look,
this is 300. It's either you buy it or you don't. I mean, if you come in at 290 and I can't redump
it, maybe I'll sell it to you. Right. Because I'm not really stressing it. Because I'm already
going to give you the best number. I'm not going to, I'm not going to tell you 300. And I already
know I want 250. I'm going to hit you with the bottom line immediately. Otherwise, I'm not doing it.
Because I'm not trying to get extra bread. Because I prefer for my person that buys from me
to make more money than me. Because this time they want to keep coming back.
Right, right, right, right. I've heard that. I've heard that before.
That's just your busy man. Your phone's blowing up. I got about 40 minutes call. But the point is,
in any business, in any walk of life, you always want to treat the person you're working with
better than you. You always want to be on top of the game. And you always want to have the best
team around you. And you only want to do things that you can handle. Because once you start trying
to jump rope that you can't jump, then you're going to make promises that you can't keep.
And then your word of shit, and then nobody wants to deal with you anymore. So you have to be able
to produce. You have to be able to figure things out. And at the bottom bottom line is you have to
keep what you say. Because if you don't, you're going to get stuck. That's strong, man. That's
super strong. Well, thanks for doing this. I know you're busy as fuck. You know, I really
appreciate it. You're still blowing up. Yeah, I gotta take these calls. No worries, take them, man.
Thanks for doing this. Oh, always.
