The thing is, all you motherfuckers that don't like my video, don't push play.
Fuck it, put pause, fuck it, watch cartoons, watch porn, whatever you want to do.
Don't fucking push play.
Follow me, I will lead you in temptation to deliver you to evil.
Come on, follow me.
Don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don
fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don't fuck with me, don fuck with me, don fuck with me, don fuck,
Fuck it. So I quit. I'm done since 1979. Yeah, fuck it
Last time I talked to you you were doing beach cleanup. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, fuck yeah
But I quit but up I went back out fishing again. It's clean now
The fuck as far as red tide is yeah, yeah
But I got a new job, you know, guess where I work. Where do you work?
Fuck it
I'm a dishwasher working as a dishwasher
Remind me to never fucking do anything. Oh my god, my hands are so clean
I fucking swear to God all the comments rinsed right off my hand
Shit now we're in trouble
Cuz I'm a creep
We're going to hell come on
Where's your friend the lady cop fuck yeah, she fucking handicuffed eat me and I was like to spake my ass just do it
Yeah, the motherfuckers she was afraid of my fucking safety she underrested me
So she put me in the handicuffs and everything like that took me to jail and
then I fucking
She was worried about my safety because she didn't want me to walk out in front of traffic. I'm like
man, I
Am fucking drunk, but I am not fucking stupid. I'm not gonna walk out of fucking car
Oh, no, I look like a bug so that it took
They made me walk all the way home from 100
14400 49th Street North Clearwater Florida 37642 how long it take you to walk home from there four and a half hours
four and a half hours
Without no shoesies
No, these are shoesies the thing is I had to buy these shoesies
Why did I buy these shoes? I have no idea. I'm at the hottest mother fucking hooker
She was so fucking smoking Sasha. I love you
Good god, I love her. Oh my god. I just want to jerk off
I'm a fucking weirdo creep something like that. I have no idea the thing is all you motherfuckers that don't like my video
Don't push play
Fucking put pause. Okay. Watch cartoons. Watch porn. Whatever you want to do. Don't fucking push play
Fuck
I only see him every once in a while. Fuck. Yeah, when I do he's usually in a good mood. Oh, fuck
How long have you known chain for it?
Like two years. I've only been in town two years. So basically the day I came into town is the day I met the first customer
Yeah, it was probably the first customer out the door enough. All right guys. Okay. Yeah, that's gross. You shut up
Adios amigos parkers
Fuck yeah, let's
See it's got party time man party on fuck. Yeah party out girls
What the fuck
Fuck yeah, don't go
Well, I went back out fishing
It got my fucking ass
Handed to me. What do you mean?
Well, because I got ripped off because
All these new captains
the
Shit's it's gone to fuck over there man. I
And I hate to see it or hate to say it but
You're not gonna charge me for your fucking
problems
If I have a drug problem, I can pay for it myself and I will not fucking charge anybody
If you got a problem, why are you gonna charge me? So who's charging you?
Fuck it goddamn the goddamn boat you work on. How could he possibly charge you for his drug problem?
Spaghetti. Oh, here we go with this shit again. I can't say nothing. You can't be you can't tell details. Nope
If anybody
Has a job for me hit a comment up on this and fucking give me a job. I'll work for you
I don't give a fuck what country with county would state. I'll come and work for you
We'll have fun
Fuck yeah, what's up fucker?
Where you from? Orlando
Do you gotta eat any drugs? Yeah, fuck it
I just finished my my last like two g's well, I could tell because look at this
You
You
Oh my god, look at her help
Look at this pretty little thing. I think it's so beautiful
Just blasts I guess
No, we're in love forever
Is that true? Yeah
How old are you? 25. You're too old for me buh-bye
Are you dating chainlee? I am. We're married
We are
You don't know me? Chainlee's a bachelor for life. Oh, shit
No, I'm married. I married a hooker back when I was a good fucking seventh grade or something
I mean, you know, Shane has a reputation for being the most salty pirate on this fucking island, bro
You know what I mean?
And this guy, motherfucker will never let me down. He don't give a fuck about anything. Fuck yeah
I care about a little bit of shit
What? I care about everybody's all right. Like if you were fucked up on the fucking street, you're like fucked up
I'd fucking take care of you. Oh, I mean, I just care that everybody's safe and taking care of a man and fucking
My mom coming home
You took me in and you drove me out. Brooday had me hypnotized
Lost him found him turned around by the fire in your eyes
I could be right. I could be wrong. It hurts so bad. It's been so low
Oh.
Mama, I'm coming home.
selfish love as false As long everyone has a hat they can pull.
Fuck it. Fuck Rolla.
I fucked it all up.
Everyday we bed, I'll fall down.
company
I'm coming home, I'm coming home, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Fuck! Fuck that fucker!
