Okay, Jack, thank you for coming.
For people who don't know who you are, you are a former KGB sleeper agent who worked
for the KGB for ten years spying on America and eventually worked with the FBI.
Correct.
So how does a guy go about being recruited to the KGB?
Unlike the CIA where you can actually apply, the KGB, you could not.
They would recruit you.
I wouldn't have known where the office was.
They weren't in the phone book.
And anyway, I would never have thought of applying because like everybody else or like
most people, you know, spy stories are very interesting.
We had our own spy stories.
We had our own James Bond, Communist James Bond.
But that was all in the realm of fiction or in the realm of adventure.
That wouldn't be me.
I was going to be a college professor.
That was my dream.
That changed one day when the KGB knocked on the door.
It wasn't my third year studying chemistry, sitting in my dorm room on a Saturday doing
a little bit of studying.
And in those days, almost all the students that could would go home over the weekend.
I couldn't.
It was too far.
So I was alone in my room.
My roommate wasn't there.
And that's interesting to note because the person who knocked on the door knew this,
knew that, must have known it.
The person also knew which room, behind which door to find me.
There were no nameplates on the door.
So after many years, it occurred to me, I had a neighbor in the next room.
There was a Russian exchange student with whom I had some interactions and talkbucket
for it.
I guarantee you, he was the one who fingered me.
Why do you think they chose you?
As you probably know, in those days, the stars, he had files on everybody and they apparently
gave access to those files to the KGB or maybe they gave the KGB some hints that you want
to talk to this guy.
If you systematically went through files for students, you know, the future intellectual
elite of the Communist Party, the society and so forth, I was a standout.
You would shake this a little bit and my file would come out for two reasons.
I was an active party member.
I was active in the Communist Youth Movement of the university, but the standout entry
was that I had just received the Karl Marx Scholarship.
Karl Marx Scholarship was very rarely given.
It was limited to 100 concurrent holders in the country, 100 concurrent.
In other words, if you get a new one to go in, somebody else has to be out.
So they were looking like the CIA, they're looking for the best of the best and I was
a good candidate on paper, right?
So the fellow, I get this knock on the door and we had a custom at the college at the
dorm that when you went to visit another student in another room, you knocked and you walk
in.
The knocking was just telling them that somebody's coming.
After the knock, the door didn't open.
So I knew this would be a stranger.
I say, come on in indeed, it was a stranger.
The fellow was entirely unimpressive.
He was short.
He had his right arm and a cast and he was just not likeable.
He was one of the few KGB guys that I didn't like.
He was German.
So right off the bat, I figured he was probably Stasi.
When you say Stasi, what does that mean?
Eastern German secret police.
Okay.
Stasi, that's a abbreviation for security police.
Okay.
Okay.
And then he came up, he asked me whether I am, I break the leaf, that was my name.
And he said, yes, what can I do for you?
And then he came up with the dumbest statement I've ever heard, the KGB agent give in my
entire 10 years working with a couple of dozen KGB agents.
He said, well, you know, I'm from Carl Zeiss Jena.
It was a firm that was very well known in, not only in Germany, but in the world.
It made high quality optical instruments.
And then he said, you know, I just want to find out, what are your plans after you graduate?
Now the reason it was dumb because in those days, the entire time while Eastern Germany
was in existence, when you graduated from college, you didn't have the freedom to choose.
You were assigned.
So in other words, companies did not recruit, never happened.
That guy didn't even know how his own country worked.
All right.
And he said that I knew immediately that he's making it up.
And he's probably secret police.
Now I wasn't at all concerned that this would be bad.
It had to be something, let's say interesting.
So we talked a while, you know, I played along with him, some, you know, small talk.
And you know, what it's like to study chemistry, which was, it was pretty hard because this
is one of the subjects where you have lab.
So you spent every, no, every afternoon after you have your lessons and your seminars, every
afternoon you spend four hours in the lab, then you have to write lab reports.
And then you have self study.
So my day started at six and it ended at 10.
There was no play during the week on Saturday morning was lab Saturday afternoon.
When I went for recreation and went to a soccer game and, and then I went dancing, trying
to pick up girls in a student club, I usually went home by myself.
I was not as, as charming as I think I am now too late.
And I was, I was very shy actually still anyway.
So that, that's what we were talking about.
And then he abruptly, abruptly changed his, his tune.
He did a 180 and he said, you know, I got to admit to you, you know, this was just a
way to come in here.
You know, I, I made that up.
I'm really working for the government.
I could have made him uncomfortable by asking what part of the government I didn't want
to do it.
You know, I just wanted to hear what he has to say.
And he came right out with it.
He said, well, can you, could you imagine one day to work for the government?
And I said, yeah, but not as a chemist.
So do you think maybe they wanted you to work as a chemist in the beginning?
Like maybe you make poisons and stuff like that?
You know, my, my best friend from college actually did work for the Stasi as a chemist.
He wound up the, as the head of the forgery department.
And, and he told me that the passports, West German passports he, he forged, he, they sold
to the KGB.
It is quite likely that he made a passport that I used to travel with.
Oh, wow.
So yes, this is, I think he really recruited me because of what happened next.
He recruited me for something, not science, because he was, he was a German who was a
volunteer collaborator with it, with the KGB, right?
I didn't know this when he said government.
I thought it was still secret police, East German secret police.
So bottom line is he, he had asked the question.
He came to ask me for, even though not in so many words.
And I answered him probably exactly, gave him the answer that he wanted to hear.
So he invited me for, to have a meal.
When I say dinner, it's inaccurate.
It's all in Germany, the big meal is at lunchtime.
So in the most expensive restaurant in, in, in town, I still remember what I had as my
favorite meal.
So, but as I walk in there, he was already sitting there in the back at a table and there
was another man at the table, which made me a little bit cautious because in those days,
it was not unusual for strangers to set a table, tables because there were very often
not enough seats.
So I just approached the table slowly, but my man who never, by the way, gave me his
name, not even a cover name.
He came up to me and walked me to the table and he said, I would like to introduce you
to Herman.
We are working with our Soviet comrades.
So it was clear that it rhymes.
That's why I'm going to say it.
One, two, three, I was with the KGB.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Masterworks.
Did you guys know one of the most brazen art heists in history happened only three years
ago in Russia?
A man named Dennis Chuprikov calmly walked into a crowded Moscow gallery, lifted a million
dollar painting right off the wall and walked right out the front door.
Of course, this didn't end well for Dennis, who was caught after trying to sell the painting
online for only $37,000.
Now I know we've all thought about how valuable art can be.
Few can imagine holding a piece of canvas that's worth millions of dollars.
But what if there was a way for you to get a piece of all this crazy art money and it
was backed by the SEC?
I'm talking about Masterworks.
The first platform where you can be an investor in legendary artwork from the likes of Picasso,
Warhol and Banksy.
They buy these incredible paintings and put them on their platform.
From there, members can buy shares, with each being an actual investment in the painting
securitized by the SEC.
Since 2017, they've sold three paintings, with each returning over 30% IRR to investors.
Although I legally have to add, past performance does not guarantee future results.
But still, 30% that's crazy.
And now, concrete subscribers can skip the waitlist to join over 350,000 people on Masterworks.
Just click the link in the description box below.
Back to the podcast.
Wow.
So my German introducer said goodbye, never saw him, never heard from him again.
And from that point on, I was working with Harman.
Wow.
It was 15 months getting to know each other.
We talked about life.
We talked about what at this point it became clear that they were thinking of preparing
me for espionage in West Germany.
How old were you?
That time I was 21, between 21 and 22.
And that was interesting.
We talked about the espionage, about what's going on in the world.
From early on, I showed how honest I am.
I told him about some weaknesses that I thought I had, shyness with the girls, stuff like
that.
And then he started giving me some tasks.
So for instance, he would drive me to a building and point to it and say, see if you can find
out what organization is in there, there was no nameplate, no nothing.
So I had to make friends with some people who walked out the door after work and ended.
I also, one time, was asked to knock on the door of a family and have a talk with somebody
who opens the door to find out about their relative in the West.
So that's sort of false flag interviews, so I pretended to be a sociology student and
came with a survey.
I asked him, could you answer some survey questions?
Pretty innocent, but sounded good.
And as we were talking, somehow I find a way to talk about West Germany and make it into
a little bit of a social conversation.
And you wouldn't believe how easily people volunteer stuff that you want to get out of
them.
So I didn't like doing this because my shyness got sort of in the way, but I couldn't fail.
It was not an option for me.
So over, and I believe this Herman guy eventually determined that I am a really good candidate.
So he got in touch with Berlin, the headquarters of KGB in East Germany, and they invited me
for a three-week visit to Berlin.
That was my first trip as a would-be agent because I was given a code name, a code phrase,
a time, and a place where we would meet.
And so I would go find that place in Berlin and meet my new friend who introduced himself
as Boris.
I worked with Boris for about three weeks.
He gave me tests to do.
And he also gave me West German literature to read, des spiegels des stands.
The things that were forbidden, you were not allowed to have them and almost nobody did.
So that made me feel good because I was already, I had one foot outside the law, but having
always been a contrarian, wanting to be different from everybody else, that was very flattering.
How long did your spy training last with them?
And then at what point, how long did it take for you to be deployed to the United States?
Okay, so the base training was two years.
That was their standard training period.
I was already working as an assistant professor in college when they finally made me the offer.
On the last day in Berlin, I got the offer.
And within a month, I quit the university and moved to Berlin.
By the way, that will be interesting to know.
In those days, East Germany, good apartments and nice houses to live in were where.
So here I am, you know, I'm now in the KGB, I go to Berlin.
I would expect the key to a nice apartment.
So I meet my new handler, the boss that I had for the two years in Berlin, and his name
was Nikolai, interestingly, he was Ukrainian.
And we talk in his car and then he says, I have a task for you, that's your first task.
Find yourself a place to stay.
Now he knew, and I knew, everybody knew that all apartments and houses were under the control
of the government.
There was a waiting list up to 10 years to get an apartment for a couple with a child.
It was impossible to just go and rent an apartment, so I could have failed.
This was a pass-fail task.
If I can't find an apartment, if I can't find a place to stay, they don't want me.
I needed to show my ability to improvise.
So I did, and I figured the further away from Berlin I get, the more of a chance I have.
I took the city train to the last stop to a town called Akna and knocked on doors and
asked if somebody had a room.
Eventually I found a place, it was an outbuilding.
It was made out of brick, but it had two rooms.
One had a bed and a chair, and the other one had a wood-burning stove and running cold
water, and that's where I lived for six months.
So the training, after six months, I think Nikolai determined this guy is a keeper, so
he gave me a key to an apartment.
So the training in Berlin was two years, and I was going to be departing for West Germany
after two years.
One of the things I was required to do, they told me everybody has to learn a foreign language.
And they gave me a choice.
I said, oh, I'll pick English.
English was easy for me in school.
I was straight A's without studying.
And with everything else, I threw myself, I gave myself 100% into learning English.
I mean, I became a maniac, and within seven, eight months, I had enough of a vocabulary
to be able to read English novels without a dictionary.
Every word that I, when I read stuff, every new word I wrote down and I learned, it came
to about 100 words a day.
I counted them.
And so one day, some guy from Moscow comes to visit and he asks me, how's your English?
And I said, well, I pulled a book out and said, I can read that, no problem.
And he said, what?
All right, we're going to get you a tape recorder and you just tape a message.
You can talk about anything you want.
So a week later, I get the tape recorder, I give it back to Nikolai.
He sends it to Moscow.
A week later, I was on a plane to Moscow because they had heard enough to think that there's
a possibility that I have enough talent to learn American English well enough to have
nothing but a slight action left that can easily be explained.
So in Moscow, I met with a college professor, a Russian who taught English and a born American.
And we talked for about two hours.
And afterwards, they discussed it between the two of them and it was uneven.
The Russian figured, nah, you can't do it.
And the typical American optimism, I can teach him.
So bingo, now they had a potential asset, somebody they could put into the ranks of
the main adversary, that's what the KGB called the United States, as an illegal.
So I was moved to Moscow to get another two and a half years training.
And then before they could launch me with the right documentation, it took another half
year.
So I spent five years in training.
Wow.
Yeah.
And your perception, once you were in the U.S. for so many years undercover, you had
obviously a preconceived notion of what the U.S. was from being overseas, was it accurate
and how did your perception change once you were in the U.S. for a certain amount of time?
Well, you probably know half the answer, of course it wasn't accurate.
I came to the United States knowing, in exclamation, not knowing, what do we call, airfingers,
right?
Knowing that the United States was a dangerous enemy and had to be defeated because the U.S.
and NATO was in the way of the master plan that was creating the workers' paradise on
Earth, where there was no exploitation, there was no poverty, everybody got along.
It's a pipe train, obviously, but that's what I believed in at the time.
Slowly I got disabused of some of the strongest communist beliefs.
When I had my first job, professional job, I met life as a computer programmer.
We were told, in the East we were told there were like three types of companies that were
the worst in the United States.
It was the military industrial complex type companies, the Wall Street investment companies
and insurance companies, and I started working at an insurance company.
They treated us very well as workers, we were paid well, we got free lunch, and we were
even pretty much promised a total job security.
I was constantly looking for the evil bosses.
There were some bosses you didn't like, but there was no systematic exploitation.
There was no systematic, what you would call, unfairness.
Based on your performance, you could go up the ladder and make a lot more money, so this
was all pretty good.
Part of my ideology melted away rather quickly.
I was still at heart a communist.
I just thought maybe there's a way to combine the good parts of capitalism with the dream
of a communist egalitarian society and get everybody happy.
That was actually a theory that was called convergence theory.
It was developed by social democrat parties in Europe.
It was popular for a while, and I thought that might be a way out anyway.
We were misled, but here's an interesting statement.
It is much easier to believe a lie if it has a kernel of truth.
When you know something, when you can relate to something that is true, then everything
else that you're being told that you don't know about, you think it's true too.
Example, we knew for a fact that in West Germany, there were some ex-Nazis who made it all the
way up to the top in the government.
We called them neo-Nazis.
At one point, the West German chancellor, by the name of Kurt Geo Kiesinger, had been
a member of the Nazi party.
The head of the Bundesnachrichtendienst, which is the equivalent of the CIA, was a fellow
by the name of Reinhard Gehlen, who, under Hitler, was in charge of espionage on the
Eastern Front.
We knew that there were Nazis in the West German government.
We figured they would eventually come attack us and unite Germany and sort of recreate
the Third Reich.
We knew the support of the United States.
That was the reason why, given why East Germany built the wall in 1961.
I believed in that too.
These Nazis that were going to come over and conquer us.
Another lie, we didn't know that there was a kernel of truth, but we clearly didn't know
that it was a lie, that the fact that the standard of living in the West was significantly
higher than in the East, was explained to us that the evil imperialists were stealing
all the wealth from the Third World countries, like natural resources, fruits and vegetables
and stuff like that.
I had not really shed that belief because I had no information to the contrary.
Now vice versa.
Fundamentally, one more thing here, fundamentally, nobody in the East, no high level Communist
parties, members, no philosophers, not the folks in the KGB really knew how the United
States functioned.
They didn't know, they were ignorant, because clearly they believed in their own lies and
he is the problem.
If you want to deal with an enemy and you don't know how the system works, you are missing
a joker in your deck.
Vice versa.
The CIA had no clue what was going on in the USSR.
I give you a very interesting example.
I met the fellow who was in charge in the CIA for Eastern Europe, all of Eastern Europe,
so he was a direct report to William Colby.
He wrote a book, and his book is the most telling sentence and sort of funny that goes
as follows.
I'm citing from memory.
So I sat in my office, he writes, I sat in my office and watched the only credible source
of information about the Soviet Union CNN.
This was in the context of what happened when the Soviet Union fell apart.
Nobody knew that.
The same way when the wall came down, the CIA had no clue what was going to happen.
Neither did the Stasi, nobody.
There was stuff that just happened and when the Soviet Union fell apart, the CIA was caught
by surprise.
So there was a lack of understanding, cultural understanding and an economic understanding
and it had a lot to do with being lazy and not really trying to get into it and believing
in your own prejudice.
Going back to what we were talking about before, you said that during your time, there was
maybe a max of 10 undercover KGB agents in the USA.
I don't know if they made it, there were 10 that were trained and sent out.
It is quite likely that quite a few of them actually had to abort.
When I look at the danger points that I passed, there were at least a half a dozen where I
could have been caught, where I could have blown my cover, the other guys were faced
with the same problems.
It's not easy to show up and say, hey, I've always been here.
I told you how I was so careful with my integration in society so as to not betray the ignorance
that I came here with.
Now how did Moscow, how are they able to make sure that you weren't losing sight of
the grand vision of all this, making sure, did they do anything to make sure that you
didn't lose sight of the goal here?
Because obviously it's such a long play, like you were doing this for so long.
Well, they didn't do much of anything other than that every two years I was back in Moscow
and I have to tell you I also was married in Germany.
I had a wife and a son, so that was an anchor.
It's kind of hard to defect if you're endangering your family and I wanted to go back and live
with them.
The other thing is the KGB trusted me, their trust appeared to have been limitless.
Now this kind of a relationship is based on trust, right?
If they don't trust me, they don't send me out and if I don't trust them, I'm not leaving.
I'm not going because they promised that they would take care of me.
But I had established a reputation and I didn't do this on purpose, that's the way I am.
I have never been afraid to admit mistakes.
So even during my training, there are some things that happened that were only known
to me but I told my boss I did this, this and this wrong.
So I guarantee you in my file there was sort of an entry that says he is aggressively honest.
And so they probably also didn't quite understand that over time changes will happen whether
you want them or not.
But there was no attempt made to ideologically train me again, retrain me or give me a boost.
In those days there was always this danger lurking about potential nuclear war.
And it was mostly during Reagan's presidency that we were really concerned that Ronald
Reagan was a madman and he would blow up the earth.
He was a Christian and apparently at least once he cited some passages from Revelation
and again he is ignorant.
The Russians thought that Reagan thought of himself as the man who would be used as a
tool by God to bring about the end of the world.
Revelation isn't meant that way for Christians but again we didn't have any understanding
of Christian religion so we were literally very much afraid of Ronald Reagan.
At that point do you think there was a number of USCIA undercover spies in Moscow?
No.
Maybe not Americans.
What American in his right mind would do what I did going to the United States because
you know you don't want to live in squalor, you don't want to live in near poverty.
That is a huge sacrifice and on top of it it's very difficult, it was a closed society.
How do you get in there?
America was open.
Would they recruit people who were already on the inside there?
Yes.
To the extent they had success, that's how they did it and the most successful ones
were volunteers, were like Russian high level generals, even members of the KGB who knocked
on the door of the CIA and said you know I'm not happy with what's going on here.
They were typically not for money, they did it because they wanted to save the world from
a nuclear war and be, they were pissed off at what was going on in Soviet society.
Who do you think was the more elite spy agency, the KGB or the CIA?
That's a good question.
They were both rather ineffective in the long run.
The United States had their most, I already said that the United States had their most
successful, working with volunteers, the Soviet Union also.
There's the two spies that did the most damage to the United States and that caused quite
a few assets, CIA assets within the Soviet Union killed.
For Aldrich Ames, he was a CIA employee, Aldrich Ames was actually in the department
that spied on the Russians so he gave away information and named names and Robert Hansen
who had a similar function counterintelligence in the FBI.
Both of them did it for money, both of them volunteered, both of them are still alive
but they're rotting in jail.
How was it that you eventually got caught?
How did you eventually get into trouble?
That took a long time.
So I come here in 1978, I make my way into a professional work at Midlife and so I'm in
the country for eight and a half years when I made a mistake.
I had a steady girlfriend who was a citizen of Guyana.
She came here illegally and one day she confessed to me that she was-
You're moving up a little bit closer, you can move it.
She confessed to me that she was in the country illegally and she asked me if I could help
her become a citizen and after some analysis I figured I could do that and it worked.
So here's one illegal who made another illegal legal.
But then the mistake was that I wasn't aware that this was, it's very typical for West
Indian ladies who want to move up, they catch themselves a man and then get pregnant.
She got pregnant and she gave birth to a girl in 1987 in the month of June, first of June.
And that changed my life, I wasn't prepared for that, but I'm seeing this little girl
grow up, I watch her take her first steps and she had the biggest eyes and nice curls,
a very, very pretty girl and I've always had a great liking for pretty girls.
This was my daughter and without really being aware of it I fell in love with her at big
time.
I think at that point, that was the point when I became a human being because up until that
point I was very much of an egomaniac even though I wanted to help the world but it was
really all about me, I'm the special guy, I get to do things that almost nobody else
can and I'm eventually going to have decent money and have a good life, it was all about
me.
I mean I left my German wife to spy in the Soviet Union, I could have, at that point
could have said maybe I shouldn't.
So I fell in love with this girl and she was 18 months old when the KGB was spooked, somehow
they got some information through some channel that indicated that I was in danger of being
caught and they decided to implement the emergency procedure.
So there was a particular plan that we had in case I had to run, either I find out myself
that I'm in danger or they're telling me.
The procedure was as follows, I had emergency documents, a driver's license, it may have
been a secondary document, Canadian that I buried in a park in north of Manhattan some
place, I was supposed to retrieve the documents and make a beeline to Canada going across
the, I think it's called the Friendship Bridge at Niagara Falls.
I had tested, they asked me to test how easy it was to cross and in those days you didn't
even have to show documents, you just walked.
So and then make my way to Ottawa where I would get in touch with a diplomat there,
a KGB agent and they would extricate me out of Canada, straight forward, right?
Wow.
That was, so and I would have to set a signal telling them that I'm starting the emergency
procedure.
We had two signal spots.
One was for me to put a signal, that was some place in Manhattan and it was under a bridge
and it was next to a highway when the Soviets lived in the north of Manhattan and they would
drive to work a certain road and they would pass by that spot every day.
So if I place a red dot, a paint red dot on that spot, that means they would be alerted
that I'm on the run.
The other spot was for them to put signals there and for me to read and that was on my
way to work on a support beam for the ATRAIN that ran above ground in that part of town.
And one morning it was in December when I was going to work it was still dark.
So I go there and as usual I just take a peek and not expecting anything and there was this
red dot.
May I use the S word?
That is what popped into my head, oh shit.
See at that point I was still trying to figure out one day I need to go back, they will call
me back, how do I take care of this girl?
So that was what that red dot meant.
The red dot meant emergency, I'm young.
Actually if you read this you just don't go home, don't pack your bags, just make a
beeline, collect the documents and get out of there.
And you had documents buried in a park?
Yes, actually that was then nine years later when I started working with the FBI we went
and I found the documents that were still there.
It wasn't really buried, there was a park bench that was broken and you know the concrete
things on both ends that hold the board, there was one of those concrete elements that was
still standing there without anything so I pulled it back and put the document underneath
and nine years later it was still there.
That helped with my credibility with the FBI you know.
So you saw this red dot?
Yes and I said oh shit and because I wasn't ready to go I had not found a way to take
care of this girl who I loved dearly because her name is Chelsea, she's 34 now.
She was born a month before me.
Oh really?
So and her mother was poorly educated, she had I think four years of formal education,
Chelsea would have grown up in poverty no doubt in my mind and I couldn't stand that
thought.
So I just decided to ignore the dot and I told you I was always a risk taker, obviously
was a risk if the KGB was right and I hang around for some more days the FBI will come
knock on the door and I wind up in jail right?
Right.
So I go to work, that day I really didn't get anything done I was just staring at my
computer monitor and do nothing and then I go home and I didn't sleep well and I was
just still thinking what do I do, what do I do, what do I do so I play for time.
And so the dot was on a Monday, on Thursday was my regular, there was a regular day when
I listened to shortwave transmission every Thursday for 10 years, 9.15.
Okay.
What was the purpose of this?
Well that was when, that was how they communicated with me.
Oh, okay.
I never met another agent, I never met my handler in the United States, you know you
see that in the movies that didn't happen with us, that was forbidden, was too dangerous.
Anyway so I'm dialing the frequency, I'm listening, I decrypt the message and it says in so many
words we have reason to believe that the FBI is investigating you, you know start emergency
procedures immediately blah blah blah and that was the end.
Okay, so reason to believe, they weren't really convincing, they didn't tell me exactly what
the reason was.
So I thought there was some hope and I was still paying for time, I was still trying
to figure out what to do, what to do and I also started some, to take some measures
to find out whether I'm being under investigation, there's some way, some things that you can
do in your apartment where you, when something is moved, that people when they look through
stuff that is not in the same space anymore, so I-
The other stuff that you were trained?
No, no, I made that up, you know, but I was trained to do one thing and I did that too,
to find out how your mail is being opened.
So you write a letter to yourself with a fictitious address and write something in there and when
you close the envelope, you don't, you leave blank spaces in the glue, all right, so you
close it and but there's a couple of spots, maybe an inch each where the word isn't glued
because the generally mail is opened by machines and then it's closed automatically with machines
so when you get this letter and it's fully glued, you know you got a problem.
Wow.
Okay.
Wow.
Another thing is I did, you know, I was extremely well trained to find out whether somebody's
following me, so I took a day off and I was wondering and wandered around in New York
City and I saw absolutely no sign that anybody was following me and because I got feedback
in my training in Moscow from the head of this department, the guy was really, really
good, he said, he gave me a compliment, he said I was one of the best he ever worked
with so that gave me more certainty that they may be wrong.
So at least gave me more time to play for time because at this point, the KGB didn't
know that I received the messages.
I could have been in a hospital, right, or my radio was broken because one time I actually
had an injury and for like three weeks, I could not do anything because my right arm
was in a sling, but then they went to the extreme and did something that they normally
wouldn't do.
So on my way to work, again, it was a dark summer, winter morning, I'm waiting for the
A train on the elevated platform and from my right comes a short man in a black trench
coat and he comes really close.
There weren't too many people around, it was early in the morning, and he whispers
in my ear, you got to come home or else you're dead.
And then he walked away.
Now, people think it was a threat, maybe 20%, but 80% chance was that, you know, he was
a Russian, he spoke with an accent.
He didn't quite understand what that phrase means.
You're dead, you don't say it in this context because then it could be taken literally.
I can say to you, you know, if you do this, you're dead, that means you could lose your
job, right?
It's a metaphor or whatever you want to call it.
So it seems like you just didn't want to believe, you just didn't want to believe.
I didn't want to believe that this was a threat.
It could have been, but whatever.
But here's the point, now they knew that I knew, so there was no more playing for time.
In the next radio, in the next radio transmission, they called me to implement a dead drop operation.
That's when somebody drops something over there that has maybe money or a passport in
it, some kind of a container, and you go pick it up.
That's the real short description.
And they changed the emergency procedure they were going to give to me in a rusty old oil
can, travel money and a passport to get out, still across to Canada.
I still hadn't made a decision, but at least I was going to get the money, right?
And then I knew I would have to make a decision rather quickly.
So here's what happened, which is the most odd thing in my entire career as an agent.
The operation was in a park in Staten Island.
The spot where the container was to be placed, I found, I described, I knew exactly how to
go there.
And I was told with regard to these types of operations, I was also very good.
They actually used some of my descriptions to teach others how to describe a spot so
it can be found.
So this was in the dark, for some reason, it's the only time we did this in the dark.
And I go to Staten Island and there was a spot where a signal was to be placed that
told me you can go and get the container.
I did it.
I put it there.
The signal was there.
So I walk into the park and there was supposed to...
What type of signal was it?
It's a chalk mark, real simple.
When I get to that tree with a hollowed bottom, it was really, really easy to find and there
was no oil can.
I said, what the heck's going on here?
I did a double take.
I wandered around a little bit.
Maybe he just dropped it and it was gone.
I couldn't find the container.
So as I walked away from that failed operation, it said in here, I'm staying.
You see this how imbalanced this was because obviously I was in danger in some way.
And if I disobeyed the command from the center, I could have been in danger through the KGB.
I knew they did not treat defectors very well.
And all the good things for me were back behind the iron curtain.
The wall hadn't come down yet and took another year.
I just knew that I had a lot of dollar savings and I had a wife and a child and the Russians
even promised me once I'm done, they promised to give me a house, which was a rarity.
And in the communist world.
So everything good was over there and everything not good was over here.
The only thing that was the counterweight was a smile of an 18 month old girl.
And in here it said, I'm staying.
And so now the people always ask, how did you do this?
How did you manage?
Brilliant.
It's another thing that just popped into my head.
Oh, yeah, I'm making up a story.
So I sat down the next day, I wrote a letter in secret writing and told them unfortunately
I can't come because I have HIV AIDS.
And that was as good a lie as I could have come up with because they believed it.
They had no reason to not believe it.
They didn't know I had a child.
They didn't know I was married in the United States.
They didn't know any of this.
They didn't know what was going on in my head.
All they knew was, yeah man, I get to go back and be celebrated as a hero because my ten
years were considered a success.
Year before I received the second highest declaration of the Soviet Union.
So they believed it so well that they went to my German family and told them that I had
passed away from this dreaded disease.
I didn't know that they believed this until I was able to reconnect with Germany.
That's when I was told what happened.
So for the next three months, I was very careful not to be predictably in the same spot at
the same time.
So I would go to work at different times.
I would go zigzag, you know, just like was unpredictable.
And after, I had already decided that the FBI wasn't going to come after me.
And after the three months, I said, well, I'm in the clear.
Now I'm going to live out my life as an American with this new family over here.
And a year later, I bought a house and then we had another child.
So that was, my future was, I was going to have a nice career in information technology
and then retire, play golf, but never go back to Germany for sure, and never be able to
travel outside of the United States because the one thing I would have avoided is to apply
for a passport again.
So you were okay with not seeing your original wife and your first child?
Yes.
I had this really artificially split personality.
When I was here, I was Jack Barsky.
So I really, there were no thoughts about Germany left in me.
And when I was back home, I was really weird.
And that's when I told you that occasionally when a German word pops into my head, I can't
find the English because there is no real good connection between the English and the
German in my head.
So yeah, and so, and then nine years after I resigned, the FBI found me.
And so that's, that changed my life again.
How did that happen?
Well, there's this fellow, there was an archivist in the...
Get this thing a little closer to you.
You can scoot it.
There was an archivist in the KGB who was in charge of moving the archive from the Red
Square from Lubyanka to a new facility outside of Moscow.
And as he was doing this, he had access to all kinds of secret documents and he was pissed
off at the Soviet Union.
He really wanted, he was trying to find a way to do maximum damage.
So he copied, hand-copied notes over many years, smuggled them out in his underwear
or in his socks, buried them in his dacha, eventually, eventually transcribed them and
one day he showed up with five suitcases worth of documents at the British Embassy in one
of the Baltic Republics that was after the Soviet Union had collapsed.
But you know, if the Russians had found him, they would have given him the death penalty.
And amongst those documents, there was a brief note that there was an illegal, by the name
of Jack Barsky, living in the northeast of the United States.
And since Barsky is not a very common name, the FBI pretty soon figured who that was.
It was me.
And I think the confirmation that they received was, yeah, the fellow got his Social Security
card when he was like, was in his mid-thirties.
So yeah, that's him.
It took him three years to actually introduce themselves.
And I understand why, because all they knew was that I wasn't illegal and I was extremely
well trained because I had survived in the United States 19 years without being caught.
So the concern was that I was still active or I was at least still, you know, a sleeper
who could be woken up any time.
That was at the time when I was telling you about Aldrich Ames and Robert Hansen, the
two very dangerous and damaging agents that were in the CIA and the FBI.
They were concerned that I might be running yet another one of those agents in the U.S.
government.
So in knowing that I was very well trained, they kept away.
They watched me from a distance.
They didn't really come close except for coming to my house at night and taking the garbage
out and replacing it with other garbage and then going through my garbage.
And at one time when we left the house of family to go to Toronto to visit my wife's
brother, they installed a listening device in my kitchen.
And this was the moment when I got busted.
So one day my wife and I had an argument in the kitchen and she was really, you know,
she treated me as if I was an enemy, as if I wanted to, you know, do harm to her.
I don't want to get into the psychological background.
It was just an argument back and forth and I decided to use the nuclear option.
I said to her, listen, I'm 100% on your side.
I'm as supportive as anybody could be.
I took a significant risk by staying here because I used to be a Soviet agent and I was called
home and I decided to stay because I love you and Chelsea.
So the FBI listened to that confession.
They had it on tape.
And as far as the nuclear option had backfired because now my wife was thinking to herself,
I can't trust this guy at all.
He was a secret agent, right?
So that didn't work very well.
Oh, she didn't even know.
No, she didn't.
Oh, no, I kept it from her.
As a matter of fact, when we moved in together, I found an apartment where there were three
rooms and a kitchen where at one end of a corridor and at the other end, there was one room.
And I said to her, this is my office.
When I'm in here, I cannot be disturbed because I'm doing complicated stuff on the computer.
And she observed that.
This is where I did my spy work while she was in the other end of the same apartment.
Wow.
So how long did the FBI confront you?
After they, from the moment they found me that they knew that is the guy that we're
after about three years.
And that came pretty soon after they got the confession on tape.
And the fellow who is now a good friend of mine convinced headquarters that he had seen
enough.
He watched me from a distance.
And he had seen me interact with my wife.
He had seen me interact with my children.
And he came to the conclusion that I loved my children.
There were some problems between me and the wife.
And he figured that because of the love for my children, I would absolutely cooperate.
And he convinced the headquarters.
And so they said, OK, say hello.
And he was 100% right.
After the first surprise, after they say, FBI, we want to talk with you.
God, I caught myself rather quickly, though.
And I told them when we sat down in a motel, the first thing that I told them says, I am
fully aware that the only way out of this for me and my family is if I 100% cooperate,
I have no reason to lie.
And I will cooperate.
And you can give me a lie detector test and you can double check some of the information
that I give you.
I will not lie to you.
And I have a pretty convincing way of communicating what I think.
And that was a good start.
And then we did like six weeks worth of debriefing sessions.
Eventually there was a polygraph test.
And I failed one question.
Really?
Yeah.
Which question?
I don't remember the question, but when the guy who ran the test, he took the material
and they have all these little graphs that they look at.
He went to a room and a half hour later, he said, it looks pretty good, but you failed
this one question.
And I said, which one?
And I forgot the phrasing.
It wasn't so much the phrasing.
At one point, a light went up here and said, this has a double negative.
He said, oh, oh, oh, oh.
So I had to go back another day, answer the same question without the double negative.
And many years later, it occurred to me that was a test of the validity of the entire
procedure.
Because I had to fail that one.
And the polygraph is so damn sensitive.
And I ran this by some of my...
Kind of like a baseline.
Yes.
Some of my FBI friends, and they said, yeah, that was a check on his own judgment.
And it was true, you know?
Now what year was this that you finally got caught by the FBI and cooperated?
88 plus nine, 97.
Okay.
97.
So during your years when you were still working with the KGB, did you ever have any communication
or any kind of run-ins with Vladimir Putin?
No, no.
Vladimir...
Was he working in Germany at that time?
Yeah, he was stationed in Germany in a city that is about 60 miles from where I grew up.
I grew up in a small village, but that was one of the closest cities.
He got there in 85.
I was already here for an 85.
Okay.
So you never had any sort of communication?
But just to volunteer some information about what he did there, he would have been the
kind of person that let's say if I study in Dresden, it's a good possibility that he would
have been the one who I would be working with.
Because the fellow that worked with me was a generalist, you know?
In these outposts, they didn't do a lot of espionage work, it was East Germany, you don't
spy on the East Germans, right?
You maintain a relationship with a Stasi, you may meet somebody from West Germany who
comes to visit, or you may actually operate as a courier for a little bit, but most of
the work was maintenance, bureaucratic work, and working with trainees like me.
And so this is what Putin did, I guarantee you.
He was mid-level, he wasn't even in charge.
And so the myth that is floating around about Putin, the 10 foot tall KGB agent, is exactly
that.
It's a myth.
A lot of Americans have bought into this, a lot of top-level politicians and journalists.
When I first got interviewed about this Ukraine thing, the interview always started.
So how did the KGB, the time in the KGB enable Vladimir Putin to do what he's doing now?
And my answer is not at all.
The only thing that helped him, having been a member of the KGB, he networked with people
who, when the Soviet Union went bust and when the industry was privatized, and when there
was politics that you could get into, guess who had the best chances?
Because the KGB hired nothing but the top people, the elite.
And KGB actually, a lot of KGB knew how the West functions and how you can become a capitalist
or an oligarch.
So this network, there's still residues of that network that works with Vladimir.
But all the other stuff that his ability to manipulate and play chess and intimidate and
be brutal, that was not developed in the KGB.
Do you think it's possible that the person that Vladimir Putin is today is, do you think
it's possible that that's a result of the United States constantly trying to destabilize
Russia for decades and constantly antagonizing Russia and doing all the things that we've
done, you could talk about the coup in the Ukraine and putting anti-ballistic missiles
and defense missiles that could easily be transitioned into offensive missiles all throughout
NATO and pushing them and pushing them back into a corner, so to speak.
Do you think it's possible that who he's become today is an effect of all of that history?
It's an excellent question.
First of all, just to lay the foundation.
In the Russian national psyche, there is a lot of paranoia about being attacked because
Russia since its founding has always been attacked from the north, the Vikings, from
the east, the Mongol hordes and from the west, Adolf Hitler, the south.
There was always war and so there is a reasonably based fear amongst Russians and most likely
Vladimir Putin of being under attack.
Vladimir Posner, I don't know if that name rings a bell, he's a bilingual, he's actually
trilingual.
He speaks fluent and almost accent-free Spanish, French, German and no, Russian in English.
During the time of the Cold War, he ran a program on US television with a very, very
famous talk show host whose name I can't remember.
Vladimir Posner knew his stuff and he knows his stuff and he is not necessarily Russian-Russian
and he's not anti-American.
He has a higher level view and he gave a lecture at Harvard University maybe three, four years
ago and I watched it on YouTube and he points out that yes, there is at least part of what's
going on right now can be attributed back to the actions and the words of the United
States.
Now, I also believe that Putin may not necessarily believe the entire story but he's using it
because his people believe it.
You know, the NATO expanded right to the border of Russia and we're not really admitting
this right now in the open.
I don't know, I haven't heard any American politician to even address this in some way.
I am thinking it is not, it was inevitable.
I'm thinking it contributed and I'm thinking again it had something to do with the lack
of understanding how Russia operates and Posner pretty much made the same case in his
address to Harvard.
Another interesting, like I mentioned to you earlier, watching the six-hour of sit-down
interviews between Vladimir Putin and Oliver Stone is it seems like he does have the best
interest for Russia like whether he's putting on a tremendous act and being unbelievably
deceptive and manipulative and putting on a show.
If that may be the case, then it is what it is but it seemed like I was convinced that
he does have the best in mind for Russia and again, talking about his perspective of the
United States, it seemed to be sound for what it's worth.
It seemed like it was very logical and he's a guy who has to deal with a new president
every four years and he watches this cycle happen every four years and in his perspective
on, you know, during every US election cycle they have to demonize Russia.
It's what they do.
We're used to this from the United States and it just seems kind of like, it seems kind
of silly in a sense like from his perspective looking back at the United States as kind
of like they're just playing games.
I'm trying to run this country as it should be but again, you know, that's only one perspective.
There's a lot of thoughts that came to my mind as he was speaking.
First of all, he's not stupid and unless he ignores history, he should know that the United
States, other than in Vietnam, has not been an aggressive country.
We went into Kuwait and withdrew.
We went into Iraq and withdrew.
We didn't take any oil out.
So when you're talking about playing games, yeah, he should know that these are games,
right?
Then American politicians have a big mouth and they always want to blame Russia and paint
Russia as the main enemy, which is not the case anymore by the way.
Now everybody pretty much agrees that China is the biggest adversary.
So there's some cynicism, I believe, under in Vladimir's head.
Also one other thing I want to say, regardless of what the contribution of American foreign
policy and military policy was, this does not excuse Mr. Putin going after a sovereign
country and killing innocent civilians.
By the way, if he really is so concerned about Russian people, you know, he's killed quite
a few Russians in the Ukraine for sure.
And I didn't watch the interview, but there's an article that he wrote, he probably didn't
write it, but he put his name under it, where he clearly lays out what his goal is in life.
And it is rebuilding greater Russia, uniting all the Russians that originally were part
of, you know, when Russia was formed, the organization was called URUS, R-U-S.
They had Ukrainians and Russians and other nationalities mixed in, and then throughout
history and with all these wars, you know, they split up, and then the Soviet Union came
back and united them all by force very often, and then the Soviet Union collapsed.
And now what Vladimir Putin wants to do is recreate a cultural, unified Russia, a paradise
for the Russian Orthodox sort of religion and culture and make it all good for all Russians.
But obviously there's a strong personal impetus at work here.
He also wants to build for himself a monument that could be put next to Peter the Great.
He wants to recreate the Soviet Union, right?
I say Russia, greater Russia, not the Soviet Union, because there are in the Soviet Union
there about a handful of Asian republics that are an Asian population.
He's not so much interested in the Asians, and that possibly would create a conflict
with China anyway.
But you know, we're talking about, you know, the Baltic republics were at once part of
Russia, and they have quite a few Russians still living there.
You know, the Ukrainian language is very close to Russian language.
I understand sometimes when they talk, the Ukrainians, I understand what they're saying.
And the culture, they have the same Orthodox religion.
Poles, you can count into that group, and he wants to create the Russian empire.
In that article, the focus is on Russia, Russia, Russia.
Not so much getting bigger and like occupy the world and making greater Russia the third
big power on the planet, the way the Soviet Union was the second.
Let me ask you this.
Why not, if you're the United States, why not let, why not encourage Ukraine to make
a deal with Russia and give Russia half of Ukraine, or at least, why not let Russia take
Ukraine?
Wouldn't Russia make, wouldn't, if Ukraine was part of Russia, wouldn't it make Ukraine
more stable?
Well, the concern is that if you allow Putin to take over without taking any losses that
he would then have an appetite and the ability to go further.
And then we got NATO countries in play.
Isn't that sort of his buffer?
Isn't Ukraine sort of his buffer between NATO?
In a nuclear age, it doesn't make a difference, I think.
I think it's vastly exaggerated, whether you can fire intercontinental missiles from the
United States and hit Moscow.
You don't have to be in Kiev.
I've had the same thought.
You need to, the most important thing, and I agree with the Biden administration policy
in this respect, the most important thing is to avoid a nuclear disaster, because that
would, there's no good solution, but this one would be the worst, right?
And I'm concerned that there is a real danger that it might happen, not necessarily because
somebody purposely launched a nuclear weapon.
When everything is in high alert stage, when the motions are high, and mistakes can be made,
and I have no real information about it, but I'm concerned about how well maintained the
Russian arsenal is.
Really?
I've lived in Moscow for two years.
The Russians, as far as industry, do not produce quality, no matter what they touch.
Even their ...
Don't they have the biggest nuclear submarines in history of the world?
Yeah, but they are not necessarily all high quality.
They're spaceships.
They're not excellent.
They function.
So that's my guess, that the American nukes are much, much better maintained and less
prone to potential accidental misfiring.
What do you think?
I mean, he's already killed a handful, I mean, thousands of thousands of people in the Ukraine,
I mean, including his own armies.
There's been thousands of Russians that have been killed.
It wouldn't be much.
I don't imagine it would be that far of a stretch for him to drop like a tactical nuke
that would kill 100,000 people.
I have no idea, but ... oh, sorry, that's my phone.
I mean, what do you think would happen?
What would be the next, if that was to happen?
I have no idea how many lives a tactical nuke could destroy, but let's just assume whatever
it is and you kill 100,000 people.
I'm afraid I pass.
This is a wild guess because now if you're the decision ... and who is the decision maker?
Is it the American president or is it NATO commando?
They're multiple decision makers.
Would they decide to wipe out Russia?
Would they let it go or would they just shoot one missile at one of the big cities in Moscow
and then send an urgent message if we've got to stop it now?
I don't know.
If that starts, I don't know how to stop it.
That's a scary scenario, but possible.
I hope and pray that somehow Zelinsky will give enough for Putin to be able to go back
home and declare victory because right now he doesn't look so good because it's not going
as well as he thought it would be going and there's a good chance that five generals were
already killed.
There's a good chance that the military is not happy with him, so dictators are not immortal.
If you could imagine, put the shoe on the other foot, imagine that the Russians install
some sort of leader in Mexico and they all of a sudden start funneling a billion dollars
of weapons and jets and stuff in Mexico.
We didn't install Zelinsky.
But the guy before Zelinsky?
No, they're all homegrown.
They were all homegrown dictator types, very similar to the ones.
The system was very similar to the one in Russia and at the time when people were talking
about it, honestly, more corrupt, it was a model of corruption.
With regard to the industry, the percentage of the gross national product that is controlled
by oligarchs is very similar in Russia and in Ukraine, even though Russian economy is
ten times bigger.
But they're both oligarchies even today.
This was not the United States doing and the whole idea of bringing Ukraine into NATO.
Let's say war is over and they want to be a member of the NATO.
We can't have an oligarchy and dictatorship as a member of NATO.
That's a misfit and how Zelinsky eventually will turn out leading a country in peacetime,
we don't know.
We don't know.
Are you familiar with after the 2014 revolution or coup, whatever you want to call it, there
was a recorded phone call with Victoria Newland and another high up senator or something
in the U.S. there was a recorded phone call between them and Victoria Newland is talking
about two people and who would be the best fit to be the president of the Ukraine next.
And she's basically saying, yes, I think we think this guy's the best fit.
We just need to sign off for Biden.
Who was Victoria Newland?
Victoria Newland is the lady who was just interviewed in front of Congress the other
day by, I think it was Marco Rubio talking about chemical weapons being in the Ukraine.
She's been deeply involved with the Ukraine for a very long time.
Neo-conservative, her husband's a neo-conservative, her husband is Robert Kagan.
And there was a recorded phone call with her talking about who would be the next best fit
for president of the Ukraine after that coup.
Well, okay, but that's talk.
And I don't think it is possible for the American government to install a president
in a country like Ukraine.
Do you think during that, during that revolution, when the opposition was going up against the
police force of the Ukraine, are you aware like the snipers and all the people that were
getting killed?
The war was ongoing.
And I told you about the journalist who told me, who was the correspondent for The Guardian.
He wrote a book, it's called The Long Hangover, and that has a lot of stuff in there about
the ongoing back and forth between Ukraine or within Ukraine and Russia and so forth.
And it was deadly for a long time.
There is no hint in his writing that Americans had really anything to do with it.
The guy is really good.
I'd be really interested to hear your thoughts.
If we could find it, Austin, could you find the YouTube video of the recorded phone call
with Victoria Nuland talking about the next leader of Ukraine.
She mentions Biden.
No, Biden was not in the picture.
He was the vice president.
Obama was the president.
He was the vice president at that time.
Okay, and Biden was in charge of Ukraine.
Yes.
Yes, I remember that now.
And then he had his son, his son was a board member of one of the big energy companies that
was formed in Ukraine.
So fast forward.
There was a phone call.
There it is.
It was a call between Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Victoria Nuland
and the U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Jeffrey Pyatt.
Questions of credibility are being raised after a private chat between two top U.S. diplomats
was leaked online.
I think Yadz is the guy who's got the economic experience, the governing experience.
He's the guy, you know, what he needs is CLEACH and Tony Boke on the outside.
I just think CLEACH going in, he's going to be at that level working for Yadz and Yadz.
It's just not going to work.
Yeah, no, I think that's right.
Okay.
Good.
Well, do you want us to try to set up a call with him as to the next step?
He's come back to me, a VFR saying you need Biden, and I said probably tomorrow for an
out of boy and I get the deeds to stick, so Biden's willing.
So you had this remarkable phone call where you have these two senior officials of the
U.S. government apparently talking about a coup or how they were planning to restructure
the government of Ukraine.
Fuck the EU.
No, exactly.
I'm not saying the whole ...
Fuck the EU.
... deals that way.
There is division on this, but the neoconservative element wants very much to change the strategic
dynamic in Eastern Europe.
By the way, this documentary was just banned from YouTube last week.
This is an Oliver Stone documentary.
Oh, really?
Yes.
So when I hear neocons being involved, the whole story has more credibility because the
neocons, and I think they're not all Republicans.
Right.
No, yeah.
Hillary Clinton.
Yes.
They're warmongers on both sides, and they're hawks, and they're irresponsible.
And you want to know something crazy about that lady, Victoria Nuland, her husband.
If you could Google her husband, Robert Kagan, one of the biggest advocates of the Iraq war.
So anyways, the documentary is fascinating, and it goes into the whole thing, and they
talk about agent provocateurs being a part of that revolution in Ukraine, killing cops
and killing Ukrainian cops and killing parts of the resistance.
That sounds very similar to some of the worst activities that was conducted by the CIA,
for instance, in Chile.
Right.
Yep.
I mean, that was horrendous.
It's the CIA playbook, right?
Yes, and that was not supposed to be repeated.
Now, if this grows, this could become one of the biggest scandal in history of the United
States, but we don't have enough to go by as to whether they actually followed through
on the talk.
There's, you know, signals, and then Biden was in charge of Ukraine, but Biden was never
a hawk.
Was he?
I don't think so.
Yeah, Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, and you don't know whether Barack Obama had
an independent opinion, whether they saw eye to eye on these things.
Hey, you're scaring me, but I'm at the edge of my sandbox that says competence.
Right.
Well, in the interviews, you know, he discusses this with Putin, and Putin is very much aware
of all of it, and he says, you know, this is what we're used to, this has been going
on forever.
During that revolution, he let the, forget the name of the current president that was
there, he let him go to Russia, and the EU-backed president came and then took over Ukraine.
Anyways, and then, you know, it's scary.
It's dark.
But then you take the article that he wrote, it's about 6,000 words.
It's a pretty lengthy, rather elaborate article about his plans.
That doesn't say anything about, you know, responding to the evil United States.
It says, this is my vision.
So that vision was there before.
True.
And even if we monkey it in the Ukraine, that still does not excuse what Putin has done
to innocent women and children.
There's no justification for that.
Now we're doing, what is the U.S. doing specifically, like seizing the yachts of these oligarchs
and going after the oligarchs?
How does that cripple, or how does that hurt Putin?
The oligarchs, well, yeah, they become somewhat feckless once they all leave the country,
if they are actually in opposition to the war.
They may lose control of what they currently still control in Russia.
I think what hurts more is limiting the ability of Russia to be involved in international
commerce.
I mean, they already have shortages all over the place.
In a Wi-Fi, I mean, they can't go to the grocery store, they can't watch Netflix, can't
go to McDonald's.
Yeah.
Well, this is inconvenient.
But I don't know if the entire SWIFT system has been, Russia has been locked out of that.
If so, they can't do any commerce.
Because you know, have you ever made money abroad?
No.
So I have euros, right?
So you need to get a SWIFT account to get money transferred from there to here.
So this SWIFT is the system that enables international commerce.
And I think at least partially it has been blocked to the extent the Europe still buying
gas and oil that may still be working, but the Russians are feeling it.
And in his most recent speech, Putin has acknowledged it and he said, well, yeah, we're
going to have this and this, and this is all going to be pretty bad.
But we need to get through this to, it's for the greater good of the country.
And believe it or not, most of the Russians are behind him.
So if people think, you know, oh yeah, there's mass demonstrations and he will be toppled
by an angry populist, not going to happen.
Not going to happen.
No.
Because there has been too much propaganda, whether that is new, whether that is right
or has roots in reality or not, the majority of the Russian people believe in the propaganda
that comes out of Putin's government.
And it's an ideology.
It's called Russian nationalism.
And he's been pursuing that ever since he became the head of state.
Where does, as far as this history between the United States and Russia and the Ukraine,
where does George Soros fit into all of this?
I don't know.
Has it he's funded many NGOs that have been involved in the conflict in the Ukraine, as
well as media companies?
And Soros to me is an evil man who wants to, you know, change the world to his image, sort
of unified to some degree, but he won't be able to see it because he's so damn old.
I mean, you know his history, right?
You know that he was...
To an extent.
To an extent.
He was a young Jewish man who cooperated with the Nazis.
And when he was asked about whether he has any regrets, he said, no, I had to do this
to survive.
It's a cold-blooded individual and it's raw power.
I thought what he's after is uniting all of the Western world in a sort of a collectivist
type system.
What rule Russia and even China is playing in his scheme, I don't know.
You did a lot of homework.
Well, I mean, I used to always think you'd always used to see, you know, I would hear
people talk about, oh, George Soros is behind, you know, when you would see like the BLM
marches and stuff like that, you'd hear people talk about, you know, George Soros is behind
this, you know, trying to get people to cause violence.
And then when I started watching these documentaries, seeing how he actually did create NGOs and
fund media to create dissent in these other countries like the Ukraine, it starts to get
deep.
But as far as pro-Russian dissent?
Both ways.
You don't have to create it.
It's there.
I mean, not necessarily.
Historically there.
Right.
There's a lot of Russians living there.
And remember, I don't know if I told you in this interview, the hatred that Ukrainians
have for Russians is based on Stalin's action when he starved four million Ukrainians to
death in the thirties, okay?
Because in those days, Ukraine, a lot of Ukrainians didn't want to be part of the Soviet Union
and particularly the somewhat wealthy peasants didn't want to be collectivized.
So this is what Stalin did.
You know, he took the Ukraine away from them.
And so the national conscience of Ukraine, of the Ukrainians that consider themselves
as part of the Ukrainian nation has this incredible hatred for everything Russian that happened
to me when I was still a Soviet agent and I met some Ukrainians while studying in college.
And I was blown away by when we talked about the Soviet Union, how much hate came out of
them.
So I had to stay away from Ukrainians.
And where was I going with this?
And there are Russians living in the Ukraine.
So that conflict was there before Putin invaded and it's been going on since the Soviet Union
fell apart.
And there are some Nazis still living in Ukraine.
Quite a bit actually, right?
I can give you one proof.
I need only one piece of information.
You know who, I forgot his first name, Pandera, Bandera, there was a Ukrainian Nazi.
There's like statues of him, right?
Stepan Bandera.
Yes, yes.
Stepan Bandera was born in 19
The anti-communist, anti-Semite.
Anti-Semite and he led a bunch of folk.
I mean, the Ukrainian Nazis were as murderous even more so than the Germans and they participated
in pogroms and killed Jews and all that.
Bandera was born in 1919.
In 2019, the Ukrainian government issued a commemorative stamp to honor Stepan Bandera.
Nafz said
Isn't that when Zelensky was
Zelensky was not yet in power.
No, he wasn't.
Okay.
Was not yet.
But somebody high level enough thought it was a good idea to honor this Nazi killing
machine.
I mean, it's crazy.
It's the amount of power, some of those, I don't know what you would call them, Nazi
militias in the Ukraine that are currently there.
It's like the equivalent of, it'd be like the equivalent of the KKK having its own sort
of military power in the U.S.
Yeah.
And so what we're talking about right now is it cannot be found in United States media
because it's too complicated.
It is too complicated.
I think the entire Ukraine has been a hornet's nest forever and it would have probably been
a good idea for the Western world not to meddle in this because it just isolated and
let it play itself out because no good will come of it.
But then you see, you know, what's the incentive for the Western world to meddle in this and
what you do see is you see, you know, the stocks of companies like Raytheon going through
the roof and then you see, you know, people that are in government investing in those
stocks before this whole thing happens and ...
Yes.
And, you know, remember President Eisenhower, a military man, warned of the power of the
military industrial complex and that's apparently at work here.
You know, we send a bunch of arms over there.
They need to be replaced, right?
The arms are ... the money that we give away is taxpayer money, yours and mine and, you
know, the weapons manufacturers make more money.
Yep.
And it's very often when people say follow the money, that's ultimately ... that dictates
where people are going, you know.
Right.
Well, I mean, it's hard to predict where it's going to go from here.
Obviously, you know, it's definitely becomes a lot more sensitive when we're almost kind
of in another cold war.
Are you familiar with ... I'm sure you are, with the story of the Russian submarine commander
who was, I believe he was off the coast of Cuba and it was given the command to strike.
Yes.
Right.
And he said that we're misinterpreting this.
Yes.
Well, what is that?
How does that story go?
There were supposed to be three individuals who have to agree, two out of the three ... no,
three, generally three.
But in this case, the commander had override power over the other two.
The other two were going ... they voted yes and he says, I'm not doing it.
And this was officially set up that way.
I don't know exactly the background.
Yes, that could have started World War III.
This one man could have prevented the nuclear apocalypse.
That is correct.
And we might well be in a similar situation going forward here.
It's frightening.
Yes.
Terrifying.
Yes.
Well, Jack, I appreciate you coming and giving us your insight.
Well, our people listening and or watching, where they can see what you're doing as far
as your own podcast or where they can find the books that you've published or anything
else that you're doing now.
Thanks for giving me the opportunity.
My website, there's quite a bit of material on the website, lots of videos and some writing.
It's jackbarsky.com, real simple.
If you can't remember, just Google my name.
It's all over the place.
The book that was published five years ago is called Deep Undercover.
I don't care about the subtitle.
And last December, Imperative Productions issued, released a podcast, a 12 episode podcast,
which is about my life, but it's narrated and it has a lot of voices other than mine.
These interviews, who will talk about how they relate it to me and how they saw my situation,
it is very well made.
It has Alden Ehrenreich, an A-list actor as a narrator and professionally composed music.
We got nothing but great reviews for it.
Can be found on all major audio streaming platforms, free of charge.
That's it.
That's incredible.
Well, thanks again.
I very much appreciate it and I'll include links to your stuff below in the show notes.
Thanks again, Jack.
Okay.
Goodbye, world.
