What is the idea of Julian Assange being painted as this incredible supervillain?
So the problem here is that if he were to actually be equitable in the stuff that he
leaks, if he were to leak as much stuff about Russia as he leaks about the United States
and as much stuff about Brazil as he leaks about Lithuania, if he leaked everything equally,
then it would be very hard for people to say that he was a puppet of some evil power.
But instead, he leaks the stuff that everybody's the most interested in, American Secrets.
Well, when you leak American Secrets, you become a threat to the United States.
If you become a threat to the United States, then you can expect the United States to rally.
Because remember, we were just talking about how the U.S. is the big hit on the block.
They're the global superpower.
Everybody wants to invest in the United States.
Everybody wants to be friends with the United States.
So when the U.S. says, OK, Assange is now anti-America and we need your help.
Everybody, taking him down.
It's really hard for someone to be like, oh, well, I disagree with you there, but I want
to keep investing in you.
Because America starts to say, well, if you're not going to be on, if you're not going to
help us with this, we're not going to help you with anything you need help with.
So that's how you end up, that's how we get into the WikiLeaks situation, where he, he
became inordinately focused on leaking information from one target.
And that makes it so that our adversaries could start funding WikiLeaks, supporting
WikiLeaks, running cases and leaking information to WikiLeaks from their
espionage cases.
And that's, that's not at the heart of what he was trying to do.
It's to keep his business alive, to, to deliver the maximum beneficial product to
the people who love WikiLeaks.
He, he let himself get led astray by the larger game of espionage.
Right.
But to be held up in the, how long has he been held up in that embassy for 10 years?
They want to extradite him and, and he's stuck, man.
And then you see the reports, the, the report on Yahoo News, it was that the CIA
plotted to kidnap or kill him.
So again, this is, this is, um, let's check the news.
Let's check the news.
Kidnapping or assassination, London shootout.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And some of the CIA secret war plans against WikiLeaks.
Yeah, so let's just, and there's, and there's like, they changed the narrative
like, like Pompeo, when he talked about WikiLeaks, he completely changed the
definition of who they were.
And through his words, tried to change the public narrative about what they were
doing and class of, no longer classified him as a journalist.
So look, there's a lot going on here, right?
So first Yahoo News, that's, that's not, I wouldn't call that a reputable news source.
That's an information aggregation source.
Right.
And then if you look at the headline, you can see how emotional that headline is.
The CIA's secret war plans against WikiLeaks.
I don't like, it just, it doesn't make any sense.
It's a little sensation.
So the, this headline is doing something that we call an influence and in
covert influence, what this is doing is it's weeding out the wrong audience and
it's aligning itself to a conspiratorial audience.
It's a tactic that you use in influence campaigns because what you want is you
want to say stuff that's so sensational that your target audience just consumes
it and loves it and trusts it right away.
But you also want to use language that's so sensational that your non-target
audience just dismisses it immediately and doesn't even read.
Because like for me, I'm sure I saw this headline at some point and I just
dismissed it and I dismissed it so quickly.
I didn't even dedicate my short-term memory to remembering it.
It's so nonsensical to me.
But to the target audience, they love this and they read more of this and Yahoo
News gets more clicks and that's, if you want to count how many ads are on that
page, you'll get a chance to see why they do what they do.
But what I'm getting at is Assange is stuck.
He, he had a choice maybe 10 years ago to decide how much he was going to let
himself get controlled by the larger geopolitical narrative, Russia versus
China versus US versus Europe, right?
He had a chance to decide, am I going to swear, am I going to let myself be
swayed by dollars and dollars and cents when other people, when Russia
specifically starts giving me information from their spies inside the United States
and then letting me leak it at specific times that are to the detriment of the
United States.
Once he made that choice, it's, it was all downhill.
But did he not, is it true that, I mean, how do we know that he didn't leak
sensitive stuff about China or about Russia?
Like maybe we're just not paying attention to it.
We're only paying attention to the stuff that he leaked about the US claiming
because we want to bring him here because it embarrassed the US and
embarrassed the CIA.
Well, not just embarrassment.
It, it, there's, there is strong analytical, strong empirical evidence
that shows that the timing at which he was releasing facts that were given to
him by Russian counterparts.
It was given to him, the stuff that he was given.
I thought it was proven that it wasn't.
Not all of it, but, but a lot of it was actually provided to him by, by assets,
by informants to the Russian Federation and then dropped specifically at times
during the election in 2012, 2016.
I thought he, what, didn't he release the Hillary emails in 2016?
Yep.
So, and, and then those weren't dropped as soon as you got them.
Those were dropped at a specific time to cause chaos in the middle of an election
cycle.
Right.
But I think it was already proven that that stuff was already public record.
It was already posted on various news sites.
So that, yeah, if, if that's, I can't speak to that one way or the other.
I'm pretty sure they disproved that that wasn't Russian.
That wasn't Russian intelligence.
So then you had, you had Hillary emails.
I mean, there was WikiLeaks's drops, a lot of different information.
I know I have, I have, I have tried to cite WikiLeaks sources in even my own
publications and had CIA come back and tell me that it can't be published because
it is still classified inside.
So he just, your original question was, is it fair?
Yes.
It's fair.
He picked, whenever you pick.
Fair to picture him as, as some sort of supervillain.
Like to the United States, to the United States.
Right.
Right.
If somebody else out there wants to, wants to grant him exile, they can, but
nobody's doing it.
Right.
If somebody else wants to be like, Hey, we back you up Assange, come stay with us.
Come live in, come live in whatever Borneo, come live in South Africa, come live
in Switzerland, they can, they can totally back them up.
They can grant him exile.
They can, they can grant him refugee status.
But guess what?
Nobody's doing that because they know what he did against the United States was
not, it was not unmotivated by political implications.
He was intentionally trying to be a threat to the United States.
He was giving enemies of the United States an advantage that is against the
best interests of the United States.
So he's, it's look at Snowden.
If you look at the grand book tour of Edward Snowden, where has he been?
He's been to Hong Kong.
He's been to Cuba.
He's been to Ecuador.
He's in Russia.
Well, it's because he can't come to the U S right?
He can't go to any place that has a positive relationship with the U S right
because of the threat is exactly right.
Not that the U S is going to kill him when he, when he lands in Germany.
That's not going to happen.
But the Germans are going to be like, we care more about our
relationship with the U S than we care about you Snowden.
Do you know what I mean?
That's, that is the world that we live in.
That is international geopolitical collaboration.
That's why you do it.
It's why you have extradition agreements.
It's why you have international law.
That is how people and civilizations work.
What is the difference between, or could there be a fundamental
moral difference between the way someone like Julian Assange may look at the
world and the way China or the U S looks at the world?
Like maybe Julian, you know, the biggest, the closest thing I can compare it to
is, is social media, right?
So you have somebody who has this, you know, grandiose social media presence
they put on an act or on, on the news rather or someone on the news who talks
about certain things, pushes some sort of narrative.
And then behind, when the camera's not rolling, there's somebody completely
different and someone tries to expose this person for being somebody
different than who they portray themselves to be.
They're doing things that they're not actively doing in the limelight, right?
There's, they're two different people.
They're wearing two different hats, two different masks.
That's what he was trying to do to the United States to make, to make the
world a better place for lack of a better term, right?
To, to not say like these are three evil empires all against each other.
He's trying to remove the lie or trying to expose just lies.
Like shouldn't the United States be doing that?
Shouldn't the United States be doing what it, doing exactly what it says
it's doing in the public light behind closed doors?
No.
No.
Are you a parent?
Yes.
Do you do exactly what you tell your child you're going to do?
No.
Because you're protecting your child.
The US government has been put in a position where, where the people have
said, I raise my hand and I vote for you to keep me safe.
There's a, there's a pyramid, a fantastic, if you, if you don't know the pyramid,
there's this pyramid that talks about the creation of a state.
There's three levels in the pyramid.
At the foundational level of the pyramid is tribalism.
It's, or it's individualism where everybody's out for themselves.
This is what we were like before when we were like cavemen.
I ate what I hunted.
If I was hungry, it's because I didn't hunt enough, right?
I, I ate and I drank when I could find food.
That's the base level.
Everybody's out for themselves.
We evolve.
Societies have the opportunity to evolve into tribalism.
Now let's become a tribe, a tribe of seven people, 12 people, eight people.
You're a good hunter.
I'm a good gatherer.
So you go hunt, I'll go gather and then we'll come and combine our resources at
the end, but I have no say how you treat your wife.
You have no say how big I grow my garden.
We just share resources.
Second level of the pyramid, right?
We're trading.
I'm trading my individual freedoms a little bit so that I can be part of a
collective because now I can't just take your, your property and individualism.
I can walk into your camp, club you over the head and drag your wife home.
Right.
Now we're saying we're a tribe.
So we're going to protect each other, but we're going to blow up every other tribe.
We're going to steal their resources, make them our resources.
Tribalism is the second level of that pyramid.
The third evolution of that pyramid is called the creation of the state.
Now what you're doing is you're letting a state organization, a centralized
organization of, of some sort of elected or some sort of chosen official.
Maybe it's an elder, maybe it's a politician, whatever, but you're choosing
to let this small organization capture the efficiencies of everybody.
You're not just your resources, which like you see with the tax base, they tax everybody.
That's a collection of resources.
And then in exchange for taxation, they're giving everybody security.
Now there's police forces, there's military forces.
They're giving everybody social welfare.
Now you have, you know, if, if somebody gets sick and they're too old for you to
take care of, we'll take care of them.
If you're homeless or you lose your job, we'll take care of you.
There's environmental and, and like services that infrastructure that's put on
top of that, we'll take care of getting you clean running water.
We'll take care of giving you electricity so you don't have to worry about those
things at the individual level, you have to worry about your own clean water and
where your own power source is at the state level, the third level of pyramid.
Somebody else is doing all that for you.
How are you paying for that?
You're not just paying for that in taxes.
You're paying for that by giving up your individual rights, your individual freedoms.
That's the, that's the power of the pyramid.
The higher up you go in the pyramid, the more civilized you get to live.
But the cost is that you lose your individual freedoms.
