We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world.
Today my guest is Andrew Bustamante.
Andrew is a former covert CIA intelligence officer
and US Air Force combat veteran.
He spent seven years in the CIA as a clandestine operative
for the agency's undercover arm.
He not only lived, plotted,
and fought in dangerous spots around the world,
but he had a lot of everyone he knew,
including his parents and everyone he met.
Manipulation was part of his job
and his podcast, which is called Everyday Espionage,
teaches the psychology of being a covert spy
by being able to understand who you are
so you can manage the experiences around you
in a very deliberate way.
Andrew is so smart, it's scary,
and some of the knowledge he drops on this podcast
blew me away.
Without further ado, please welcome Andrew Bustamante.
Bustamante, is that how you pronounce it?
You got it, man.
Cool, well, Andrew, thanks for doing the show.
For people out there who don't know,
can you give me just like a brief explanation
of who you are and what your background is?
Absolutely, my name's Andrew Bustamante.
I'm a former CIA field officer.
I left the agency in 2014
and went on into corporate America
and then started my own gig.
Now I teach spy skills to everyday people
from individuals who wanna learn increased security
to corporations and even going back
to government enterprise as a private intelligence consultant.
So what exactly did you do in the CIA?
So I was a field officer, there's, I mean, CIA,
if you know anything about the military or the government,
it's a whole separate world, right?
You've got cooks and chefs and everything else.
So inside the agency, it's the same way.
So I did what was known as human intelligence
for field operations, which is completely different
than the stuff that you see from satellites
and the people who collect radio signals with SIGINT and NSA.
So yeah, just as an overarching definition,
human intelligence or what's known as human.
Okay, what do you think are some of the biggest misconceptions
about the CIA with all the conspiracies going around?
Yeah, I think you nailed it right there.
It's a fun thing to talk about.
So the biggest misconception to me
is that people think that CIA is somehow behind conspiracies
that work against American interests.
I get that that CIA has secrets
and I get that it's done some kind of crazy stuff
like trying to kill people in the past
and make Fidel Castro's beard fall off.
Like we've done some zany stuff.
You just had, you had a guest on here
not long ago talking about MKUltra and mind control
and experimenting with drugs.
Absolutely, CIA has done some wackadoodle stuff.
But to ever think that a government organization
is working against its own country,
against its own people is absolutely ludicrous.
And that's the biggest misconception
that I see out there is there are people
who genuinely believe because of conspiracy theories
and otherwise that there's something to gain from CIA
hurting the government, American people,
like people who think it's behind 9-11, it's just insane.
Right, the MKUltra thing's weird
because it's not necessarily, I don't think he was saying
that they were trying to hurt the American people.
They basically were just taking in certain people
as test subjects like prisoners and stuff
and doing wacky experiments on them to try to,
whatever, gain influence in foreign countries
or with foreign leaders.
Yeah, learn how the human mind works, right?
And that's, I think MKUltra's like, that's out there.
People know that that's true.
And the stuff that was done in MKUltra,
when it comes to the details,
I don't know if I didn't know, I couldn't say,
but does it make sense that the CIA of the 1960s and 70s
would take people who had lifelong prison sentences
and take them out and then subject them to like,
downers and uppers and all kinds of crazy transitions
to see how the brain works, it totally makes sense, man.
But at the same time, they were doing that
to increase national defense to all people.
I'm not saying it was the right or the wrong decision,
but I am saying it makes sense
that they would do something like that
because they had a justification
that was in the best interest of the American people.
That's what you see with so many things
that happened with the agency.
I know one of the things that is popular to talk about
is Edward Snowden.
Snowden's entire story is based,
like hinges on the question of whether or not
it was legal or illegal for government intelligence agencies
to collect information on people, like big data
on cell records and who was talking to who
and record all that information.
And it was ultimately discovered to be illegal.
So that's a good thing,
but the justification was always
in the best interest of protecting America.
So that's what's so hard to understand
about the intelligence world,
and that's what drives those misconceptions.
Yeah, so what is your view on the whole Edward Snowden thing?
A lot of people are against him saying
that he gave up too much information
to countries like Russia and China,
and other people say that he did what was best
for everyone in the country.
Yeah, and when I look at Snowden,
and I've said this, and I'll say this
until the day I die, right?
The dude did the right thing the wrong way, right?
It's what you see happen mostly like at work
or in your family, like people try to do the right thing.
There's a noble intent behind what a lot of people do,
but they do it the wrong way.
And when you turn to support,
when you get support from places like Russia and Cuba
and some of the places in Central and Latin America
that Snowden got support, that's a big hint.
You're dealing with bad guys, right?
But you're doing the right thing.
To call into question secret courts
that landed on the conclusion that it was okay
to collect information on the average American,
yeah, that needs to go up the chain,
but there's a chain that you're supposed to follow.
There's a series of steps that you're supposed to take
to make sure the information, the threat,
the hostile actors out there don't know that it's happening.
If you recall back in the days
when we were hunting Osama bin Laden,
I think it was the New York Times came out with a story
that was talking about how the intelligence services
were following bin Laden based on his use of a satellite phone.
And then like the next day, guess what?
We lost all contact, all ability to trace bin Laden
because this open source newspaper basically told the world
that the agency was tracking him through his satellite phone.
So we just stopped using a satellite phone
and in ushered the era of covert communications
for Taliban and extremists.
And then we had to relearn how do you track these guys
if they don't use satellite phones.
So there's all this damage that can be done
in the intelligence world, the national security world,
when people do the right thing the wrong way.
I love one of your videos I was just watching earlier,
which was super eye-opening was you were talking about,
I guess you spent a lot of time in China, right?
I can't say where specifically,
but yeah, Asia was one of my specialties.
So one of the things that you mentioned,
which was like, wow, was you said like,
the United States is only a 200 something years old
and China is almost 3000 years old.
And it was crazy to like think about that.
Like I never thought about that.
Like how China is, people think China is,
I mean, it's crazy communist.
There's a whole bunch of issues with China, their culture,
people, we think of China as just this crazy outlandish
place, but it's, they have 3000 years of history.
It was interesting your perspective on it.
Yeah, so, I mean, a lot of that goes back.
There was a time, my wife is also a former agency.
So my wife and I met at the agency undercover,
got married, we had two different disciplines.
The agency saw right away that we were
an operationally useful couple.
So they sent us around the world doing what we did,
kind of what's known as a tandem operating couple.
So just she and I against the world.
It was pretty sweet.
Like Mr. and Mrs. Smith.
Yeah, but you know, I don't look anything like Brad Pitt.
But we were in Japan on tourists just traveling
and we went to this water, this like historic site
and it had this old school water mill
where water was coming down off a mountain,
turning them out mill, grinding some like corn
or whatever, right?
And the tour guide, the English-speaking tour guide
who was with us looked at us and said,
it's beautiful, right?
We both looked at him and we're like,
this thing is gorgeous.
I can't believe it's still running.
And she's like, yeah, it's two times as old
as the United States.
And that just, the way that the tour guide
explained that to us, right?
She didn't say it was 200 years old, right?
She didn't say it was 400 years old, excuse me.
She said it was two times the age of my country,
which just, that means that little flour mill,
that little corn mill has been doing its job
twice as long as the United States
has been demonstrating that democracy works.
And that put everything into perspective for me.
And now all of a sudden, you know,
when we left that tourist trip
and went on to continue our operations,
I started realizing how big the world really is.
The average Chinese person that you sit across the table from,
whether they're here in the United States
or whether they're in Beijing,
that person doesn't just have pressure
from mom and dad like you and me.
They don't just have pressure from, you know,
what school they went to
or what their future's supposed to look like
or making people proud or putting food on the table.
They've got 3,000 years of cultural pressure.
How are you going to do something in your life
that moves the center kingdom, right?
Zhongguo, Chinese word for China,
is the center kingdom, right?
The center of the universe.
What are you going to do that moves us forward?
Cause guess what?
For 3,000 years, people have been moving us forward.
Are you going to drop the ball?
Like in the United States, we're kind of like,
eh, I can help the country that I live for or not, right?
Like I'm free to leave anytime.
Freedom, you know, you can't hold me back.
Don't tread on me.
That's our attitude.
That is not the attitude in China.
That's not the attitude in Japan
where you're basically given a trade at the age of 12
and you do that trade your entire life
and you smoke and you drink
and you like drive yourself to work
off of four hours a day of sleep.
Like it's completely different than mindset
when you start traveling the world
and seeing how people think.
Wow.
It's super cool, but it's one of those things
that when I come back from a big trip,
when I come back from operating abroad,
I still operate abroad just in the commercial sector, right?
You come back and you just take a big deep breath
of God bless America, man.
It's an awesome feeling.
Why do you think it is that those countries
have turned out the way they have?
After, I mean, they are just being so old.
What do you think it is?
What do you think time, how time has affected the culture?
It's like, do you think we're gonna end up there
in 2000 years?
Well, you know, it's an interesting question.
When you consider China, right?
China's been through how many,
they've been through multiple emperors
and then they had a nationalist movement
that turned into a communist movement.
They've had democracy that basically failed
and then they've turned over and become communist
and now their communism has adapted
into like this hybrid communist government,
but bull market economy that like grapples with itself.
What you saw it do in Hong Kong is a perfect example
of how like, what does it want to be in the future?
So it's still evolving.
What I will say is that if you just look
at our election cycle,
just look at what happened in November.
The country is split.
Half the country wants Donald Trump,
half the country wants Joe Biden.
The advertising that was going out
to try to encourage people to vote
and encourage people to participate,
very little of it had to do with how our country
should look 10 years from now, 20 years from now, right?
It wasn't based on the vision of the country
that we wanted to make.
It was basically based on the vision
of the country that existed.
Right, like fear.
Yeah, it was fear mongering.
That's exactly what we were doing, right?
And that's what we have been doing increasingly
every electoral cycle,
every time that we have a new president
or every time that we go back to vote, we fear monger.
If you look at the results
or if you look at some of the studies
that have been done on attack ads, hate ads,
you'll literally watch them double and triple
in the amount of money that's been spent
going all the way back to like 2008, I wanna say.
So it's just insane.
But the reason that that's important
is because we're going through that now
after being in existence for about 200 years.
If you look at where China was
about 200 years into its existence,
it was basically fear mongering too.
Like which emperor is gonna take over?
Which house is going to take
and own like the largest chunk of land?
Who's gonna live where?
It was back in the days
where there was no running water or electricity,
but there's a very natural cycle.
There's an evolution to all things.
Just like you watch a child
and you watch the child go through these simple mistakes
that you as an adult don't make anymore.
And then you talk to some person who's 80 years old
and the big problems that you have right now
being 30 something are problems that they laugh at.
They're like, dude, my heart may fail tomorrow, right?
I don't really care if you have,
if you pulled your calf,
I haven't exercised in 30 years.
So it's that same kind of thing.
So what will happen to America 3,000 years from now?
If America is America 3,000 years from now,
who knows how we're going to have evolved?
This great democratic experiment
is either gonna be kicking ass and taking names
or it's going to evolve into some kind of hybrid.
So I mean, I don't wanna hijack like your questions, right?
But just as another example,
what China does right now, right?
What Russia does right now,
the reason that America looks at Iran and China and Russia
as such powerful threats,
isn't because they make more money than us.
We're the largest economy in the world.
Like we make what like,
I think China's entire economy
is like 60% of the United States.
We dominate financially.
We dominate in technology and innovation.
We just, we crush these countries
in every kind of measurable aspect.
But what they have that we don't have is authoritarian rule.
They don't need to ask permission from a Senate.
They don't need to go to Congress to get money approved.
It is literally a handful of people
who make all the decisions
and then everybody else follows suit, right?
Imperial Japan that we went to war with in World War II
was the same way and they were a freaking powerhouse, right?
My point here is that the threat
isn't necessarily that our economy is going,
we're never gonna get eclipsed by China.
If people somehow think that we're gonna become Chinese
in the future, that's not how it's gonna work.
You don't think?
No.
Okay.
What's gonna happen is we're either gonna just...
I was scared for a second.
We're either gonna implode from the inside
and then in the vacuum of confusion,
like we left in Iraq, somebody's gonna step in
and we're gonna reevaluate what our purpose is
and what our values are, just like what happened in Rome.
China's not gonna invade America.
China's goal is to just keep being China
because every year that they succeed,
they just grow a little bit more
and they grow a little bit more
and that's the Chinese mindset.
That's the Japanese mindset.
That's the Vietnamese mindset.
That's the Asian mindset.
Stay alive today.
You're gonna get more tomorrow.
Wait till the bad guy dies.
You basically outlast your enemy, right?
And one of the ways, one of the tools
that they can use to outlast, yep,
is simply they don't have to ask permission.
They're just like, we're a police state.
You are now being observed and you don't have a right.
We're listening to your phone calls
and you don't have a right to say anything about it.
You're going to jail, you don't get a fair trial.
That's the end.
That's kind of, but doesn't that kind of seem like
that's where it's going in the U.S.,
like with the Patriot Act and with what Snowden revealed
with them listening to all everybody's phone calls
without permission and with the prison system here
and the war on drugs and everything.
It seems just like that's the direction
that we want, that the government wants to go.
I absolutely think that there's some experimentation
going on in that direction
and it's just a matter of how we justify it, right?
It's the same, if you look at how-
Calling it something like the Patriot Act.
It's easy to justify.
Exactly, so I mean, just look at the house, right?
Look at Congress.
Originally, our country was built
so that public servants were servants, right?
You went out and you were like super successful
selling cards or you were an inventor
and you created lights or something, right?
You did something important with your life
and then you stepped out of that important role
to basically sacrifice four years of your life
to being a two-term senator or congressman, right?
Or I'm sorry, a two-term congressperson
or like a one-term senator for six years.
But you took a hit.
That's why you were called a public servant.
The president was supposed to be like a business tycoon
who then steps out of his role and takes a hit
and he lives as a president, right?
Instead, now we have these professional politicians.
Now you make $250,000 a year to sit on your butt
in Congress doing nothing except making sure
that you get invited back again.
It's like a two-year thing, right?
Where they're constantly raising money.
Yep, that's it.
And then because they want to get elected again
and again and again.
And they make their entire career
being a professional congressperson.
So when you've got that kind of engine driving us, right?
You've got to find creative ways
to fight an evolving bad guy.
And you've got these people who are in power
and want to stay in power.
So what do they do?
They basically subdivide themselves
into intelligence committees.
So I'm a congressman, but now I'm also a congressman
that sits on an intelligence committee,
which means I keep secrets from other congressmen.
And the secrets that I keep are like a subset
of the secrets that CIA keeps.
And then we start, we take our entire judicial system
and we make a second judicial system in the secret courts.
So now it's like the secret court's job
is to keep secrets from the public court, right?
All we're doing is just adding layers of segregation,
which keeps the everyday person who's in charge of voting
for the right congressperson,
uninformed about what's happening.
So that's why Snowden's revelation was such a big deal.
Because your elected officials who sat
on the congressional court,
who appointed the judges to the secret courts,
who are supposed to support CIA and NSA,
basically all approved.
Yeah, it's okay if the government collects
your private data on your cell phone.
Right.
That's a big deal.
Yeah, it's terrifying.
It's fucking terrifying.
Oh, God.
Isn't that a big problem with democracy too?
I remember, I don't remember the exact name of the guy,
the philosopher who had the quote about,
I mean, I'm completely gonna botch this,
but basically question democracy is being like,
everyone, should every idiot in the country
be allowed to make a decision that changes everyone's lives
or should it be the most educated people who vote?
Yeah, so this is, I think it's a fascinating question.
And the reason that it's a philosopher
who asked that kind of question is
because everybody else who would ask that question
would just be called an asshole.
Yeah, true.
But yeah, you've got, we live in what's known as a republic,
a representative republic.
So we elect people to represent us.
So even though we wanna believe that every vote counts,
all those people out there who say,
my vote doesn't count, yeah, you're like 40% right.
Your vote, my vote, it doesn't really count.
Our vote only counts if we are part of the majority votes
that are able to swing the representative letter,
latter, right, so that we get representation that we want.
If you don't get representation that you want,
then your vote doesn't really matter.
But that's our model.
So we try to pick the right people to represent us.
So it's like picking an attorney.
You have a family attorney, your one attorney
represents all 12 people in your family.
But guess what, your dad wants something different
than your mom, you got, you want something different
from both of them.
Your six year old sister probably doesn't have the right
to say what she wants anyways,
but somehow she still gets an attorney, right?
That's exactly what we have here.
The person who busts their ass to build a business
and turn that business into a $5 million a year enterprise
who puts 200 people to work,
that person has exactly the same amount of voting power
as the person who cheats on their taxes,
collects unemployment illegally
and just doesn't do anything with their life, right?
The person who lives off of food stamps and whatever else.
What kills me about our country sometimes
is that you've got both sides attacking each other
and what they're attacking each other with
is totally correct.
There are absolutely the top 1%
who could care less about low, like poor people
who just wanna collect more wealth
and become stronger and wealthier.
That's how all human beings are.
And there are absolutely the bottom 1%
who are out there scavenging off of loopholes
and taking advantage of people committing crimes
and stealing from whatever.
Those things exist, so the attacks are true,
but the attacks like the complaints
are about such a small subset of society
that we're just blind to the other 98%.
All of the people out there who are just trying
to do the right thing the right way for the right reasons.
And it's just, it's hard.
So that's part of I think the evolution
of what we have to get through as a democracy.
So what made you wanna get into the CIA?
How did you get into the CIA?
How does somebody start a career in the CIA?
Mine was kind of accidental.
So I was an Air Force officer.
And I was coming to the place
where I could leave the Air Force
and I was so excited, man.
I'm not cut, if you can see me now,
I'm not really cut out for short hair
and clean shaving and polished boots.
And honest to God, all I really wanted
was to meet a nice hippie girl and have like 12 kids.
That's really how I wanted it.
So I applied to the Peace Corps.
And I still remember the day like in uniform,
taking like a four hour break in between shifts.
And I went to like the computer lab
because that's what we had back then.
And I logged in and I started making
the application to the Peace Corps.
And about halfway through the application,
this screen pops up and it's like,
hey, you might qualify for other government positions.
We recommend you put your application on hold.
If you continue past this point,
you'll be disqualified from certain government jobs.
Now I was 24 at the time, 25 maybe?
No, 27 at the time.
So I was always on the lookout
for the next best opportunity, right?
So I was like, shoot, 72 hours.
I'll put myself on pause, except no problem.
Went home, 24 hours later,
I get a phone call from an unlisted number
and they say, hey, we'd like to have a conversation
with you in Langley, Virginia.
Really?
That's all it took.
They didn't say who they were, they didn't say.
No, they said, we represent a national security entity
in McLean, Virginia.
We're gonna send you tickets to fly up to Langley.
And if you accept our invitation,
and you'll have like your first personal interview.
And then after this, you'll be able to continue
with whatever government applications you want.
And that was, that's how it started.
And that's how it starts for a lot of people.
Really?
Yeah, they get a phone call
or they get kind of somebody stands in front of them
at like a career fair, believe it or not.
See, I did a lot with career fairs,
college career fairs and general career fairs.
But yeah, you kind of get that weird stranger
who talks to you and you think, yeah, this isn't real.
And then they follow through with something
that you're like, there's no way.
This person who just described themselves
as Betty or Bob on the phone,
actually just mailed me tickets
to fly to Virginia next week.
And then you go and you're like, why the hell not?
So when you flew to Virginia, what happened?
I got off the plane, checked into like a Hampton Inn
or something like that.
And then went and had a day of,
or half a day maybe of just generic interviews.
Like, hey, we see that you're a foreign military.
Can you tell us, tell us one big success in your life
and tell us what you're most afraid of
and tell us this and tell us that.
And you know, we, I knew I was interviewing
with national security, but I didn't know where.
I didn't know it was intelligence
or if it was like homeland security or homeland defense
or if it was just border patrol.
So then about halfway through that, they're like,
you know, you'd be a good fit for our intelligence services.
And for me, they were interviewing me
for clandestine intelligence services.
So undercover ops.
So they were like, you'd be a good fit
for clandestine operations.
And I was like, yeah,
because I'm ambiguously brown, right?
You don't really know where I'm from.
And that's when I kind of got real.
That's insane.
And you were 27 years old.
Yeah, 27 years old.
Don't they, when you join the CIA,
don't they make you sign like a lifetime
non-disclosure agreement?
Yeah, it's a lifetime secrecy agreement.
So that's been kind of the bane of my existence
for a while now.
Wow.
So you got some stuff in your head
that you're not allowed, you can't say to nobody.
Yeah, and like, and the thing that sucks
about that lifetime security, like secrecy agreement,
is it's for a lifetime.
So it's not just the stuff that I did in the past,
but if I have some badass idea of what I want to do right now,
like for example, I had a collaboration going on
with another former intelligence officer,
a guy who was what's known as deep cover.
So much deeper than like generic cover,
kind of like what you see in most movies,
like super deep cover guys that people don't even,
they barely know their CIA.
Wow.
So I had a buddy of mine that I was in collaboration with
and we were trying to get a book written
that represented his life.
Cause he was part of a really important,
like exciting operation that nobody knows about.
Really?
And I was like, oh, here's a chance for us
to use Everyday Spy, which is my training platform.
Here's a chance for us to use my training platform
to tell your story and still protect your identity.
And we ran up by CIA and they were like,
we approve in concept, we agree with your approach, right?
So we go into this six month,
just deep dive collaboration, writing,
getting maps together, pulling evidence from the past,
like getting this badass package put together.
So we can tell this story.
We have, you know, Hollywood producers that are on board,
we have audio producers that are on board,
TV producers that are on board,
people who are super excited to see this thing come to life.
We get the whole thing finished,
finished meaning ready for submission back to CIA
to say, hey, you approved of the concept,
here's the final product.
Man, they saw the final product and they were like,
this is never going to see the light of day, you guys.
We can't let this out.
And then we went back and we were like,
oh, but you said conceptually it was okay.
And you know, what's the difference?
And they were like, well, when you see all the information
kind of put together, it's just too dangerous.
It's too dangerous to the op,
it's too dangerous to the individual,
it's too dangerous to the people who are, you know,
still associated in some way with that kind of unhop.
So then boom, six months of work, just trashed, man.
And that's the, that's what I signed when I was 27,
looking for the next best opportunity.
So it gets to be a pain sometimes,
but then other times like, you know,
it's really nice to know that everything that lives
on the internet for me right now is CIA approved.
Like I'm never going to go to jail
because they aren't going to come back and be like,
oh, you know, this thing that you said you did,
like we don't like it, so now you're going to jail.
So everything you do, you have to talk to them
and get approved.
So you have a good relationship with them still?
You don't really ever have a good relationship
with the agency, but yeah,
I have a working collaborative relationship.
They, when they like what I do, they don't talk to me.
When they don't like what I do, they tell me not to do it.
So it kind of works out.
Fuck, it's crazy.
So did you ever have to get,
I know there's like people at the CIA
who their job is specifically to disguise people, right?
Did you ever have to go under any kind of crazy disguises?
We kind of all do to a certain extent.
When you work in the field, disguise,
we call it costume actually.
Costume, okay, okay.
So like the disguise department
is actually like called the costume division.
So yeah. Really?
It's just like Hollywood.
It's just like Hollywood, yeah, exactly.
So we all do it because there's a lot of security benefits
to different levels of disguise.
And by and large, there's like three levels to disguise.
But yeah, so sometimes we go under a very light disguise.
Like even what I'm in right now,
if I were to just do my hair,
grow and shave my beard straight,
like shave it so I've got clean skin,
that could be a version of disguise.
Put on a pair of glasses, put on a ball cap,
wear something I don't normally wear.
So like those are simple disguises.
We wear those a lot.
We'll wear those just going for a walk
just so that we can shake surveillance
if we need to.
Without an everyday thing for you to be disguised?
To some level?
It was like a, I would say a weekly thing.
Okay. Yeah.
So if you consider the fact that we basically execute
anywhere from like two to five ops a week,
then that would be a weekly thing.
One of those almost guaranteed is going to be
in some kind of disguise level.
But then the really crazy stuff,
like you might only get into prosthetics
that change your face and your nose.
You might only get into changing your skin tone
or your eye color.
Like that kind of stuff,
you're only gonna do that a handful of times in a career.
Did you ever do it?
Yeah, we all do it.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, the typical,
like your typical field officer
will have two to three field tours
before they get pulled in to do,
like become somebody's supervisor.
What do they do to you?
What do they make you look like?
They make you fat.
They make you tall.
They make you, they add, right?
So they can make you taller.
Yeah. With like stints that go into your shoes.
What?
So they can raise your shoulders.
So it looks like your neck is smaller,
but your body is taller.
There's the key to disguise is that you can always add.
You can't take away, right?
You're not gonna make a six foot tall person, five foot eight,
but you can make a six foot tall person, six foot two, right?
You can make somebody who weighs 180 pounds,
look like they weigh 210 pounds,
but you can't take them and make them 160 pounds.
So the general rule is you can always add.
So they like to work from a foundation.
One of the reasons why so many intelligence officers
look the same, you know, shaved faces, short hair,
whatever like fit bodies is because you can always add.
You can make them a little fatter,
make them grow a beard, make them grow long hair.
Easy to add, hard to take away.
So that's basically how it works.
So for us, you know, put on a fake tattoo,
put on 20 extra pounds, put like a tack in your shoe.
So you walk with a limp
and all of a sudden you're a completely different person.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's fascinating.
Well, keep in mind, the majority of people don't observe
accurately, right?
We most, most of us live our life
in what's known as a zone of situational awareness
that's called the white or the green zone,
which means you're really only aware of
between six inches and like two feet around you.
Somebody could walk right by you
and they could walk by you four times
and you'd never even notice, right?
It's not until you become a trained observer,
a skilled observer that you start seeing those patterns.
So it's really easy if you can believe it.
Like I have literally put on a black wig with straight hair.
I'm a black curly haired guy
and I have put on a black straight haired wig
and a pair of glasses and that's it.
And sat at tables with friends
who did not immediately recognize me.
What?
Yeah.
Your own friends.
With my own friends.
And it's just, it's mind boggling.
People are like, I've seen you before, right?
And I was like, yeah, we have met before.
Because it's just, you know, people don't get it.
They don't trust their instinct enough.
So they feel like this tickle that says, we've met,
I know you, why do I know you, where do I know you, right?
They don't trust it.
They don't trust it because they're like,
ah, you know, whatever, this, I'm just gonna move on.
Whereas for us, when you become a trained observer,
you trust that little tickle, you trust that spidey sense
and you're like, something's shady here.
Like I have seen that guy before.
So did you have to go through a lot of training initially
before you started, before they initially shipped you overseas
to do all this undercover stuff?
Yeah, there's two types of training
that you go through at the agency in general.
There's your intro training,
which is whatever your skill set is,
whether you're gonna be a target or field officer,
tech officer, whether you're gonna do break and entry,
whether you're gonna do whatever you're gonna do,
right, hacking, you will go through like a,
it prolong the training.
And most of those lengths are classified,
but my training was the farm,
just like you've seen in the TV shows, right?
So I went to the farm and then they teach you everything
you need to operate independently in the field
at that training course.
And then from there, you'll continue going through training
that's more like specific where it's needed.
So if you're gonna go into the desert,
if you're gonna go into the jungle,
if you're gonna go into a position
where you'll only be in contact with your support element,
like once every month or once every two weeks or something,
if you're going to create a deep cover alias,
different trainings, right?
So those are much shorter,
but essentially all of our training mimics this process
of what's known as just-in-time training,
meaning you're taught a skill
and then you're immediately put into an exercise
where you use that skill.
So it's completely different than what you're used to
in college or anything like that, right?
If you could imagine, like if we had weapons right now,
I could basically teach you how to put a gun together
and take a gun apart, right?
And then the next step would be to force you to do it
while I'm keeping a clock and you have real risk.
If you don't do it in less than two minutes,
you don't complete, you don't continue the training, right?
A real risk scenario, spikes the adrenaline,
forces you to process the information that you had
plus the skill set that you have in front of you
and then you have to perform.
That's called just-in-time learning.
If there's no real risk, it's basically like college
and you're like, ah, I can handle a 40 on this test,
I'll just make it up on the next exam, right?
There's no stakes, you can plan it out
over the course of a semester and be like, yeah, I'll be fine.
And where did you go to first when they shipped you overseas
and what was your main objectives when they sent you?
Where do they send you first?
This is, now we're getting to more classified areas, right?
Because our personal operational background
is where we start running into classification problems,
where we start, you know, stuff is confidential,
stuff is classified, stuff can't be shared.
What I can say in general is not everybody gets shipped out
right away.
Some people will be deployed into positions
where they're going to learn a special skill,
like maybe you're gonna go work with joint military ops
and you might honestly go to Paradise,
you might go to Southern Florida
and just practice jumping out of helicopters
and doing amphibious assaults.
That might be your first tour.
Other people will stay at Langley,
they'll stay at headquarters.
Some people might go, you know, take a tour with FBI
or take a tour with NSA and just, you know,
be a joint liaison, learn that side of the operation.
And then other people will go and do
different types of field ops.
Some long-term field ops, some short-term field ops,
some special operation field ops,
different stuff like that.
So for me, let me think,
for me it was more of a traditional route.
So traditional overseas assignments,
traditional domestic assignment,
traditional overseas assignment,
traditional domestic assignment.
And then it was actually in 2012,
there was some big developments in like the world
of counter-terrorism and counter-nuclear proliferation
where my military background kind of came into play.
And I was all of a sudden like,
I was so fleted out of this traditional world
and into special ops covert action world.
And that was kind of how I ended my career.
As a program manager doing covert action
with joint US military
and other domestic intelligence community partners.
And then we had our first kid, the long story short,
we left because my wife and I left because we had our child.
And when we kind of did the math,
looking at how other parents in the agency end up,
we were like, eh, I don't know if it's worth it
to like potentially sacrifice our marriage
and the childhood experience,
the parenting experience for a career
working for a secret intelligence organization.
But so haven't you said that,
like said previously where you were like generally,
like the countries that you were in?
Correct, yes.
So I specialize in Asia.
Okay, Asia.
And what's nice is that when you specialize
against the target that's an Asian target,
the thing is just, I mean, it doesn't take a rocket scientist
to think of the different targets that are in Asia.
They're actually all over the world.
So I've had a chance to travel in Latin America,
Central America, Europe, Africa, Asia,
chasing these bad guys all over the world.
Wow.
Yeah, it's been a lot of fun.
And so your job was basically to just like find yourself
in the same environments as these bad guys?
Yeah, basically, yeah.
So the way that our ops worked,
because my wife and I were a tandem couple,
she was what's known as a target.
So her job was to find targets.
And the way we define a target is somebody
who is in possession of secret information
that the American government wants.
Maybe that secret information has to do with nuclear weapons
or maybe it has to do with troop movements
or maybe it has to do with artificial intelligence.
Who knows?
But she knows what American intelligence needs
and she finds the people who we think have access
to that information.
And then my job is to build an op
where we meet that person and collect that information
or prove whether or not they have what we think they have.
So a lot of that is, it's just social skills.
It's social skills across cultural barriers
dealing with people who have no reason
to trust you as an American
unless you put on a disguise and pretend that you're not.
And you were most often the not in a disguise
pretending you were somebody else, right?
No, yeah, yeah.
Most often I was not in a disguise.
Okay, you were not in a disguise.
Not in a disguise, yeah.
And then, but I also didn't overtly claim to be American.
Right.
Like I don't look Caucasian.
So a lot of times if I'm meeting with somebody
and we're speaking in English,
they don't have English that's sharp enough
to know that mine's an American accent.
If we're meeting in a foreign language,
then my foreign language skill
would always have an American accent
or a Western accent, right?
Cause it would be their native language.
And they would realize kind of early on
that I'm a Westerner, most likely American,
but stereotypes about America are super strong overseas.
Like if you're not white, six foot two and like 195 pounds,
people actually don't think you're American.
They're like, maybe you're Canadian.
Really?
Maybe you're European or maybe, yeah.
They don't think like, just like when I say Chinese person,
an image comes to your mind.
Not all Chinese people look like that.
Right.
It's the same thing overseas.
If you're sitting in Japan and you say American person,
an image is gonna come to mind.
Like Hollywood, football players, celebrities.
Interesting.
Yeah, that's gonna come to their mind.
That's not what I look like.
Wow.
So you would, so your wife would basically figure out
the people who have this information
that the government wants.
And you would somehow find a way
to meet this person in public somewhere.
Yeah.
In public or it could be in virtual world
or it could be, it could be in private
if you had like the right kind of connections
where you could connect through what's known as
like access agents.
Sometimes you hear them called useful idiots.
Like people in between who can connect you
to the person you wanna talk to.
And then you can have a cup of coffee in private
as your first meeting.
But a lot of times it's really just,
I know this person's gonna be at this hotel.
I know this person's gonna be at this conference.
I know this person's gonna be at this baseball game, right?
I gotta find a way.
So as part of your training to develop these social skills
and these like psychological tricks that you could play
to sort of get these people to like you and trust you.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
So one of, just to kind of reference back
to your previous podcast on MKUltra, right?
MKUltra was a goal to try and get people
to understand mind control.
I would say that we never mastered mind control
in the way that MKUltra set out for us to do.
But we have very much learned the process
of mastering persuasion, mastering influence,
which is all a form of mind control, right?
And we do it without drugs.
We do it without anything except
for mastering deliberate social skills, right?
Understanding how the human mind works,
understanding the cognitive processes,
being able to put deliberate elements in place
that steer a person's thinking
and get them to land on a specific outcome.
That is what we wanted to, that we want them to deliver.
So you're doing it right now.
I don't know if you've thought of that.
Every interview that you have,
you are using some of those skills, right?
So just as a real quick exercise, right?
Okay.
What's your name?
My name is Danny.
Danny, Danny, where were you born?
I was born in Clearwater.
Clearwater, Florida?
Yes.
That's an awesome town.
Yeah.
Did you like learn to love the beach growing up in that town
or do you not love the beach because you grew up in that town?
No, I've always just loved, I love the beach and the water.
You love the beach, are you a water person?
Do you do stuff on the water?
Oh yeah, absolutely, all the time.
Like what?
Fish, surf, swim, dive, everything.
So who's in control of this conversation?
You are.
I am, why?
Because you're steering it,
you're guiding me with the questions.
What do you do every time you have a podcast interview?
Sort of, yeah, the same thing.
The exact same thing, man.
That's a form of like cognitive control.
Interesting.
But we don't often think that.
Most people think that if you're talking most,
you're in control of a conversation, right?
It's why when you wanna impress your date, you talk.
Right.
If you wanna impress your date, shut the hell up.
Right, exactly.
Listen.
Yeah, exactly right.
Because then you'll be in control of the conversation.
Like cognitively, when you start receiving questions,
you start to feel like you are the center of attention.
Even though you're only the center of my attention, right?
Anybody else who's in the room
doesn't really know that you're there.
But you start, you feel good.
There's all these emotional receptors
that start to trigger.
You feel like the center of attention.
You feel like you're interesting.
You feel like all these things about you
that are mundane to you,
you're like, oh, this guy really likes me.
Like, I feel really good about myself, right?
And then you start to associate that
with the person asking the questions.
And you start to be like,
I feel really good around this guy.
In fact, you just feel good
because you're getting questions, right?
But if I ask you the right questions
and every time I'm around you,
I ask you questions and every time I'm around you,
I stroke your ego or I pump you up
or I help you connect in ways that you wanna connect
with like business networks or whatever else.
Like you're gonna start to associate positive feelings
with me as a person, right?
And now all of a sudden,
it's not hard to take that one step further
and be like, you're not just positive towards me,
but you're actually loyal towards me.
And that's the human cycle, man.
From stranger to friend, from friend to loyalist.
So are these the kind of principles that you teach
with your everyday spy podcast?
Yeah, exactly right.
Yeah, these are the principles that we teach.
And then we also teach people
how to apply them to everyday life, right?
Because it's one thing to understand something conceptually.
It's something completely different
when you know how to apply it.
You can apply it to finding a date.
You can apply it to getting a raise.
You can apply it to securing a job.
When I left the agency, I had to get a job, right?
But guess what?
I couldn't tell anybody.
That you worked for the CIA?
So it's like-
You really couldn't tell them that?
No, I couldn't tell them.
I went through a two-year cleanse
where my cover had to be scrubbed.
So I wasn't allowed to talk about who I really was
or what I really did.
I was only able to lean on this fabricated resume
that CIA gave me with phone calls
that would like answer on-
Like sources and stuff and then resources.
Everything was fake, yeah.
Wow.
So after like six months of trying to find a job
and not finding a job,
I was like, to hell with this,
I'm just gonna use the skills that the agency taught me
and I'm gonna like fraudulent myself into a job.
And that's essentially what I ended up doing.
So I got myself into an IT position
with like a Fortune 10 company lying the whole way there
and then I spent like a year with no skills at all
learning on the job, trying to like balance.
It was just an op, right?
It was just another op.
But when the agency finally rolled back my cover,
I was able to go to my boss and be like,
hey man, it's been nice working for you.
Just, I wanna make sure that you know this
in case there's any kind of legal ramifications.
But my resume was fake.
My application was fake.
I really don't have any of the skills
that you hired me for.
And what did they say?
Well, my boss was like, thanks for telling me,
keep doing a good job.
And I'm gonna talk to my boss too, right?
So then like my boss and the boss above him
like knew the truth.
And I don't know if it ever went any further than that.
But essentially like I was doing a good job.
I learned what I needed to learn.
Right, right, you're very competent.
That's one of the most important things.
And that's an everyday skill, right?
I can drop you in almost any job
in any industry, anywhere.
And you're gonna learn how to do it, right?
The hard part is getting through the gatekeeper, right?
How do you get past the HR person?
How do you nail the interview?
How do you fake it until you can prove it?
And that's kind of, that's an Intel skill.
Wow, that's fascinating, man.
So what was it like after,
how many years total were you in the CIA?
Seven years total with the agency.
Seven years, what point was it that you and your wife,
like what drove you guys to ultimately
make the decision to leave?
So I would say about the five year mark,
we started realizing like it may not be the best fit for us.
You're always, it's the government.
It's the CIA, but it's still the government.
You don't really have a lot of control over where you are,
whether your boss is a dirtbag or a superstar.
You know, it's not a meritocracy.
Doing a good job doesn't make more money.
It doesn't get you choice assignments, right?
It's all about who you know still.
It's a good old boys network, right?
So we were both kind of realizing
that maybe it wasn't gonna be the best long-term fit for us
at about five years.
And then we got a sweet assignment that we were both like,
there's no way we're gonna turn this thing down.
Like let's ride this wave and see what happens.
And we had such a good time on that assignment
that we ended up getting pregnant.
How long did the assignment typically last?
They last between two and four years,
depending on where you're going.
I mean, some short-term assignments
can be much shorter than that,
but your typical assignment is somewhere between two and four.
So we went out and like we had a blast
and then we ended up getting pregnant.
And once we got pregnant, if anybody out there has kids,
knows what it's like to be in a relationship
where the wife or the girlfriend gets pregnant,
everything changes, right?
Like there becomes this, like an extra lens is like lifted
and you're like, oh, these are my real priorities
and these are the things that are just nice to have.
It's crystal clear.
As soon as you know there's a baby in a belly,
you're like, holy smokes.
It should change it, it's crazy.
So that happened to us.
And we were like, okay, we're gonna have a baby.
This baloney's gotta end, right?
I mean, before that, my wife would get shipped somewhere
for like two months.
I couldn't talk to her.
She couldn't tell me where she was going.
Really? I didn't know if she was coming home.
You guys wouldn't even talk for two months.
Yeah, I mean, we would talk through secret systems
that the agency provided us
because we were coworkers, right?
So we'd be able to plan for one op
while she's still on her other op.
But essentially that's just glorified email.
So it's like, your wife is doing one thing
and then you're here and then she'll come back for a week
and then I find out I'm gone for two months.
And then like, maybe we're both gone.
Nobody knows when we're gonna talk to each other next,
if we're gonna talk to each other next.
And it's sexy and it's fun and it's exciting
when you're 28 years old.
Absolutely.
And you know.
Oh, it's like a dream job for a bachelor,
for a single person.
Yeah, exactly.
And even when we got married, we were like, oh, this is sweet.
Like, you know, who gets to live this life?
They make movies about this kind of thing, right?
But then all of a sudden there was a baby
and now we're like, okay, if you leave for two months,
what do I tell them six years from now
if you don't come home, right?
And then the agency starts to play a role
in what you can and can't tell family
and who you can and can't tell about whatever, right?
And it becomes this really messy, like pit of just lies.
Lies and compromise.
And that's why the agency has one of the highest
divorce rates in America, right?
And the agency employees, marriages just don't last.
Divorces, rife, adultery is rampant, like stuff,
bad stuff happens when you start compromising
on these core values, like the agency doesn't care
because you're still loyal to the United States,
you're still doing your job.
They don't really care about whether or not
you stay married or not, right?
As long as you don't start selling secrets to the Russians.
I can imagine already husbands out in Russia
on some covert mission and he had to sleep
with this Russian lady because it was part of the mission.
Sorry, I mean, I had to do it.
Yeah, and then how are you gonna talk about that
when you come back?
Exactly.
Right, like it was, you know, the things I do
for my country, like triple X style, right?
Right, right.
Or is it like, yeah, nothing really happened, babe.
It was a really boring trip.
Right, geez.
I only talked to Sasha, but Sasha was a boy
and he was fat, you wouldn't have liked it.
Let's make spaghetti and meatballs for dinner.
Yeah, that's the worst possible career I could imagine
you could have for raising children.
Yeah, and that's what happens.
And that's what's so, the reason,
one of the reasons I am so positive still
to this day about the agency
is because the men and women working right now
are making that sacrifice.
Like they are going to work every day,
lying to teenagers every day,
missing birthday parties, missing baseball games, right?
They're going on these missions
that they may not come back from
because they believe so strongly in the mission
and they are voluntarily putting everything
about themselves and their families second.
That's not the way I'm wired, right?
But if that's the way they're wired,
God bless them, because they're doing a job I won't do
and they're doing it to keep my family safe.
I can't talk trash about that, you know what I mean?
I'm not going to write some trashy memoir
that tries to bitch-slap the agency.
When there are people out there
making that genuine sacrifice and some of them,
they make that sacrifice, it doesn't go well.
They lose spouses.
They have children that never want to talk to them again,
right?
I mean, they retire at 60 with a divorce
and half their net worth is taken away
and they've got to keep working
at like doing whatever they do, right?
It's a huge compromise, it's a huge challenge
and it's one that I will always honor
and respect the people doing it.
Yeah, definitely different kind of human to do that work.
Absolutely.
So when you were on,
a lot of these covert ops that you were on
how often would you say your life was actually in danger
when you were on these jobs?
Like were you, if say for example,
someone figured out that you weren't who you were saying
you were, would your life be an immediate danger?
So it's interesting when you think
about what a life really is, right?
So we call espionage the gentleman's game.
It's more like chess than anything else, right?
When you capture a piece,
the piece has more value to you alive than it does dead, right?
So it's not like a soldier where, you know,
here's a company of, here's a platoon of army people
trying to, you know, storm a machine gun nest.
The machine gun nests only mission
is to kill every single person at platoon
and make sure it stays safe, right?
We're in a completely different kind of game.
So if we're overseas, if we're on mission,
if we're doing something in a war zone,
we are worth way more if somebody can capture us
and hold us than if they just neutralize us.
And it's the same way with us.
We would rather follow a Russian spy for years
and let them keep operating than pick them up
and scoop them into a cell somewhere and arrest them
because you learn so much more watching them operate.
You learn from interrogations,
you learn from monitoring communication systems, right?
So it's a gentleman's game because there's so much more
at stake when you're being observed
than once you've been captured.
So I would say that was my life in danger.
And I wasn't really at risk of losing my life very often.
That, you know, there's always IEDs
that go off on the sides of roads.
There's always, you know, bullets in mission
and rockets that fly overhead if you're in a war zone.
Yeah. Or a civil war zone, right?
Yeah.
And that kind of stuff is kind of always a threat.
But when it comes to whether or not
someone's gonna individually target me
and like snipe me from like the 12th floor of some building,
it's not really like that.
It's the bigger risk is that somebody
has identified me through my cover.
That ruins the mission.
And that ruins the mission and I don't know it.
And now everything I do every day, right?
They're tapped into my phone lines, tapped into my cell phone,
they're following my emails, they're following me,
they're following my wife, right?
And they're just sucking up every piece of information.
They find my assets, they find my targets,
they find my mission, they find the objective.
They let me do everything while they build a big case,
a big international case, right?
And then, right before I get on a plane to go home.
The last thing they wanna do is let you know
that they've figured you out.
Exactly right, exactly right.
And that's something that you don't see.
Like in the movies, it's like,
oh, they're following James Bond
and as soon as they think they have a good shot,
they try to kill him.
Like no, James Bond, I would just watch that guy all day long
and be like, this guy is such a douche.
Really?
He's just, there's his asset,
there's the lady he's sleeping with,
there's where he keeps his money,
like there's the car he drives.
We can put a GPS tracker on the car
and always know where he's at.
He wears the same three suits, right?
He uses the same gun.
It's way easier to watch the guy
and learn about MI6 than it is
to just neutralize the guy and stick him in a cell.
Right.
I know one of the things I wanted to talk about
was the Havana syndrome.
Where, I mean, when I first found out about it
a couple months ago and I read about it
and I saw like an interview
from one of the guys on YouTube,
that was absolutely fucking terrifying.
All of a sudden, your whole family
is waking up with migraines and bleeding out of your nose
and I guess from what I understand
is the Russians were blasting microwave energy,
very focused microwave energy at these buildings,
like either US embassies or buildings like that
where they knew Americans were working
either for the CIA or for whatever,
blasting microwave energy at them
for some reason or not,
basically the jam signals or communication.
Do you know anything about that?
Yeah, so what you're getting at
when we talk about the Havana syndrome.
So, I mean, first and foremost,
we have to recognize that nobody knows what it is.
Nobody knows, nobody can confirm if it's even real, right?
We've just had enough instances of it
where we're like, you know,
predominance of evidence suggests something is going on.
We don't know who it is,
but we know that it started in Havana
and we know that in Havana,
it's like the Russian embassy
was across the street from the American embassy, right?
So, like that's the foundation,
that's where it all started.
Outside of that, a lot of what's happening is speculation
which makes it dangerous,
but here's kind of what I would add to the conversation.
We know that there is an inherent risk
in direct weapons, kinetic weapons, right?
If person A shoots person B,
like we live in a world where the whole world knows it now.
You can't hide the ballistic evidence,
like there's gonna be a bullet that has a unique,
you know, caliber that's gonna come from a gun
that has a unique caliber,
so you can't hide that kind of stuff.
So now we're getting into this world of like energy weapons
and we've seen them in crowd control too,
like how do you break up a crowd without killing people,
like what happened in Kent State back in,
you know, the 60s or whatever.
So you've gotta find a way to break up crowds,
you gotta find a way to basically target individuals
in a way that can't be tracked.
So that's where these energy weapons
come from or indirect energy weapons, right?
So basically, whether it's a fire hose
that just, you know, nobody wants to get here
with a fire hose, so they all run away.
Or whether it's a sound wave that makes you vomit
or makes you disoriented, like we've seen these things
in other parts of the world,
we've seen them here in the United States.
What we have here is an instance where something,
and theoretically, like it wouldn't be hard
to take an energy weapon and mount it
and direct it at a certain floor of a building.
There's an infrastructure requirement anytime you have
an intelligence operation going on.
So with an infrastructure requirement,
like it's hard to just move your command center
from place to place.
So once people know where your command center is,
they could use a pulse energy weapon
and just aim it at the windows and do their thing, right?
Disorient you, make you sick to your stomach,
you know, cause nosebleeds, you know,
push for brain aneurysms, things that can't be tracked.
So what's fascinating about the Havana syndrome
is that it happened in Cuba and in China and in Russia
and in other countries around the world.
And it's oftentimes most often associated with,
you know, diplomats and people who are
in the intelligence service who are, you know,
at some point in a diplomatic facility.
So there you see, like the infrastructure is there,
permanent infrastructure,
things are like individuals who are being targeted.
It's not like you hear, you know,
you don't get articles about janitors
who are complaining about this stuff, right?
Who are on the first floor.
It's always US diplomats, isn't it?
Yeah, that we hear about the most.
Exactly.
And the kind of technology that would be used
to make this kind of effect is not the kind of technology
that's gonna exist in Nigeria or Kenya, right?
It's gonna come from a first world tech savvy country.
But yeah, and that's kind of what we're seeing.
So for me, it certainly suggests
that there's an intentional weapon of some sort
that's being used to deter people
from going to these command centers.
Like if I was still in the agency
and somebody told me I had to go to Moscow
and like sit on the fifth floor,
I'd be like, oh, come on guys,
like I don't really wanna be throwing up every afternoon.
That sounds miserable.
Would you really say,
would you really be concerned if they told you that?
Oh yeah, I can't tell you, people are doing that right now.
I promise you.
And that's what makes these weapons so powerful.
Like what's happening?
I don't know.
What's the risk?
I don't know.
Is it gonna happen to me?
I don't know.
But you have to make a decision to go or not go.
And you're like, oh.
And one of the biggest issues with it is,
I guess initially a lot of people were getting,
like paid benefits or paid,
basically like they were able to leave
and get all their medical stuff
taken care of by the government.
But I guess now, from what I understand,
I could be wrong, but in the most recent cases,
the government has basically like denied any of that stuff
and these people aren't getting some of those benefits
or those medical benefits.
Yeah, I would hope that,
I mean, because if you are a government employee,
you always have certain government benefits,
which goes like kind of points
to the whole SolarWinds debacle and the recent breach,
the cyber breach with SolarWinds.
But yeah, so since all government employees
have government benefits,
then it doesn't matter if you're undercover
or not undercover,
you should have the coverage you need
to get taken care of.
What is SolarWinds?
So there's was a massive breach.
I think it was December 12th or 13th.
So it's a-
Just a couple days ago?
Yeah, just a week ago.
Really fascinating example of what I teach
as industrial espionage.
So SolarWinds is a database company.
They basically, they're a contracting civilian company
and their job is basically to monitor the performance
and the health of different databases for companies
and government entities and state organizations.
Like they have something like 18,000 customers.
So they're a massive successful company, right?
Well, a breach was just identified.
They don't know who it's from.
They speculate that it's Russia.
And essentially what happened is
some sort of foreign hacking malicious code
was inserted into their system,
specifically so that their server,
their servers would forward that malicious code
onto these targeted clients.
And then once it was on these targeted clients servers,
it would penetrate those servers
and then start collecting data and sending it back.
Holy shit.
Massive, man, it's the biggest,
it's the biggest breach that we have ever had
in American history.
It's all over the news in certain circles, right?
It's not something people are keeping secret,
but what I think America doesn't understand is like,
this is traditional espionage.
I am on, the reason I'm excited about my business
is because I think we are on the brink
of possibly the greatest espionage revolution in history.
What do you mean by that?
Because espionage has become so much easier now.
You've got countries that have access to information
that allows them to make their own decisions.
So the days of the Iron Curtain in the Soviet Union,
even the days in North Korea,
where you see people having information control
and brainwashing entire countries, that day is over.
Like North Korea is literally counting the days
until somehow somebody can sneak in with Google, right?
Right, right.
But people can make their own decisions.
When people can make their own decisions,
they can make their own bad decisions.
And it's very, very hard for even a state-controlled organism,
like even a police state to protect all of its information
when individuals can choose what they do
and what they don't do.
On top of that, that same technology that makes it possible
for an individual to make a bad decision
is also the technology that makes it possible
for cyber actors from anywhere in the world
to target anywhere else in the world.
And espionage is all about finding the weak point
and the most vulnerable point
and entering through that vulnerable point.
You can get to the strongest guy in the world, right?
Your UFC fighters, your powerhouses, right?
Whatever they are,
they all still have vulnerable points, right?
They're still soft between their toes.
It still sucks when they have an earache, right?
They still rush to the dentist when they have a cavity.
They have vulnerable points,
even though they're big, strong people.
Countries are the same way.
United States, big, strong country.
Guess what? We still have vulnerable points.
SolarWinds was one of those vulnerable points.
That was the weak spot between our toes.
Somebody out there was like,
oh, look at this little company
that has no protection and weak passwords
but is connected to all of these secret government
organizations all through the DoD, right?
Look at this, it's connected everywhere.
And if we can just penetrate there,
we'll get into everything and that's what they did.
So how did we find out about it?
So interestingly enough, this is such an ugly story, man.
There's an international cybersecurity group
out there called FireEye and they're like top,
top quality cybersecurity group based,
they might be based out of New York,
possibly Singapore.
Anyways, these are shit hot cybersecurity guys.
Guess who they did business with?
SolarWinds.
SolarWinds managed all their databases, right?
All the performance, all the health,
all the server requirements, everything.
So then FireEye used their own cybersecurity tools
on their own systems and they started seeing
these anomalies and they were like,
this looks like we've been penetrated, right?
So they isolate the penetration,
they start to reverse engineer it and they're like,
we have found something that looks like it was exported
to our server from SolarWinds.
So FireEye tells all of their clients,
hey guys, we know you counted on us for cybersecurity
and we're connected to all of your systems.
We think that we've been compromised.
It's like COVID-19 for the cyber world, right?
Here's our contact tracing.
Hey guys, I know we hung out last week,
I just tested positive for COVID, right?
And then all these people start to freak out.
And then the person who tested positive, FireEye,
looks back at SolarWinds and is like,
hey, we think you might have been penetrated.
SolarWinds does a scan and they're like,
yeah, we've been penetrated.
So then they have to go out and tell all of their clients,
we think we've been penetrated, keep an eye out,
like look for these kinds of anomalies.
And then once they told all of their clients,
everybody's like, well, we see anomalies,
we see anomalies, we see anomalies.
And it's just this, it's not ugly.
It's not like sloppy.
It's not sloppy cyber tradecraft.
It's really refined, effective tradecraft.
So refined that SolarWinds never found it.
FireEye barely found it, right?
Like that's how quality the penetration was.
So it's a big deal.
And how did we figure out it was Russia?
Nobody knows.
Everyone's saying it though, right?
The reason everybody says it is because,
so there's an MO to cyber operations.
There's two types of cyber out there.
There's slap your mama's cyber where it's like,
hey, I just like, I took you, I took you down.
I want the whole world to know about it.
I'm gonna do everything except say, I did it.
I'm just gonna say, hey guys, like,
not my fault that you suck.
And then there's a cyber that like,
you don't even know happened.
Super refined, professional,
you don't even know we were there, right?
It's the same kind of thing that you see
with like professional athletes.
There's a professional athlete who comes out there
and dominates on the field
and then like wants to be the one on all the talk shows
and wants to be like, I'm the best, I'm the bomb,
I'm the shit.
And then you've got the, like the quiet killer
who's you don't ever see on talk shows
who everybody wants to wear their jersey
because they're like that guy's a killer, right?
Two different types.
China is this one.
When they break in and steal something,
they leave footprints everywhere, right?
They're like-
They're marching all over the grave.
They leave red flags just to give you a hint.
But then if you come back and say,
China did this, they're like, oh, it wasn't us,
wasn't us, but you know, it happened to you.
Sucks to suck. Sucks to suck, exactly.
Russia on the other hand is like,
they don't even get caught 90% of the time.
Belarus doesn't get caught, Iran doesn't get caught.
Like these are really, really refined cyber folks.
America, we pride ourselves on being so good at what we do.
You don't even see that we've been there, right?
That's how refined this was.
So when it's that refined, Israel,
they are so good at what they do.
I stepped away from the mic.
They're so good at what they do,
they don't even leave a footprint.
They don't ever get caught.
Like this group barely got caught.
And the reason they got caught is probably
because they were going up against the hardest
cyber targets in the world.
There's only a handful of players that play at that level.
We're one of them, Russia's the next one on the list.
So it makes it really easy for us to be like,
Russia did this, but you can't see anybody confirming it,
right?
One person that says it was Russia,
two other people say we don't know.
Super refined, man.
That's espionage.
That's insane.
It's super, for me, I think it's super exciting.
It is exciting.
No, it's exciting and it's insane and it's scary.
It's everything.
Yeah.
Why do you think it is?
I mean, I hear a lot that Russia,
their spying techniques and their technology
when it comes to surveillance and stuff
is way more advanced than us.
Is that accurate?
Yeah, there's, I wouldn't say it's more advanced.
I would say that it's more aggressive.
More aggressive.
Yeah, so you've got these handful
of national intelligence organizations
that have very refined, very sophisticated,
talented people, intelligent people.
They understand technology.
They know how to use it, right?
Some of the country's on that list.
Israel's on that list.
America's on that list.
Canada's on that list.
The United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia in the Middle East
on that list.
China's on the list.
India's on that list.
Brazil is on that list.
It's a huge list, right?
There's lots of Korea, Japan.
These are super refined places
that are really good at what they do.
The difference between them is how aggressive they are.
Okay.
America doesn't want to get caught.
Like we want to be the quiet, gray person
that never gets caught.
So we use our stuff less aggressively.
China wants the whole world to secretly fear them.
So they don't worry about aggression.
They want to appear aggressive
and then they have this excellent narrative
because they're not a democracy, right?
A handful of people decide that they have their own,
what's the word I'm looking for, propaganda organization.
Their job is just to come up with a narrative.
So whenever someone accuses China of being aggressive,
China just comes up with a narrative that's like,
hey, we're trying to be a world leader.
We're trying to help.
Don't mistake our aggression
or don't mistake our goodwill for aggression
while we figure this thing out, right?
So that's how it works.
Places like Russia, super aggressive
because Russia's in this funky spot
where it's still a state-controlled nation,
but they're trying to play this role
where they're like a peacekeeper in the world.
Like they're trying to offset American supremacy
with their own kind of Russian supremacy.
So it gets really sticky, man.
How do you put surveillance on all your people
but then tell people, like tell other countries
that you can trust us, we're here to help?
Right.
It's really hard to do that.
It's hard to do that when you've got a country
like America that actually helps you
with no strings attached, right?
Or Canada that actually helps you
with no strings attached
because the real strings are hidden.
So nobody even knows that they're there, right?
That's the difference between what's known as tradecraft,
how we do our tradecraft
and how they do their tradecraft.
Do you think, this is one of the terms of espionage.
Do you think obviously when they charge Snowden,
his main charge was espionage?
Was that actually espionage?
A lot of people say, there's like one guy on Twitter,
I forget his name, that basically says
that he compromised a lot of stuff
by giving things to China and Russia.
But basically, I guess from what I understand
is what he did is not technically espionage
because espionage is giving compromising information
to other countries.
So here's what's interesting about Snowden
and going back to what we were talking about,
vulnerabilities and soft spot between your toes, right?
Snowden wasn't an intelligence officer.
He was a contractor.
That's often mistaken.
A lot of times it's reported that he was an NSA employee.
He was not, he was a contractor.
A contractor that's a third party contractor
just like SolarWind is a third party contractor.
We have multiple cases in the United States
where third party contractors are targeted
by foreign intelligence services
because they have access to top secret systems,
but they don't have any of the protections
that like full blown CIA officers, NSA officers,
DIA officers have, right?
So as an example, when I was in CIA,
I had to take a full scope polygraph.
I had to go through multiple interviews every year
to make sure that I was not compromised
to a foreign intelligence unit, right?
When I worked, I would often work side by side
with a contractor, a contractor from Booz Allen Hamilton,
a contractor from Northrop Grumman, a contractor from CACI
who didn't have any of that security like bat barrage
that they had to go through.
They basically were like, CACI,
the government went to CACI and was like,
we need a body, we need a body to type.
And they were like, here you go,
this person has a top secret clearance and they're yours.
That's a third party contractor, that's the weak spot.
And they don't sign those confidentiality,
lifetime confidentiality agreements?
They don't sign a lifetime confidentiality agreement.
Their contracting company signs that agreement for them,
right?
So that's how it's like Snowden could be in a seat on Monday
and then the next day the contract goes
to a different organization or like Snowden's contractor,
contracting firm decides, you know,
this guy's not worth it, let's put somebody else in, right?
That's part of the problem that has been identified
with SolarWinds.
We have this huge soft underbelly
because we've relied on contractors
and third party contractors for so long.
So with Snowden, he was never an intelligence officer.
He never had direct access to intelligence policy.
Therefore, he doesn't really fall under the Espionage Act.
The Espionage Act specifically applies
to intelligence personnel.
So if an intelligence personnel officer
who's been entrusted and sworn their oath
to the United States violates it,
they can be tried for treason and for espionage.
If you don't sign that, they have to find different charges
which is why you see he has all sorts of charges
for like compromising information and selling information
and giving away secrets that shouldn't have been like,
he's got a whole rap sheet of things that he has done
that are valid criminal charges
that can be upheld.
But that's why there's so much question
about the Espionage Act.
Got it.
Yeah, I thought, for some reason,
I thought that just because that he revealed information
that was specific to American government spying on Americans,
I thought that it wasn't espionage
because it didn't have anything to do
with any sort of foreign entities.
Yeah, so when he left the United States,
he basically started selling his services,
his services meaning his information.
That's how he paid for his escape.
Oh, really? Yeah, so he gave information to Uruguay,
gave information to Cuba, gave information to Russia,
gave information to China.
That's how he kind of, that was the barter that he used
to keep getting state level protection
to evade American authorities.
They all offered protection for a limited period of time
until they got the information that applied to them
and then they shipped him off to the next person.
Wow.
Yeah, that's where the treason charges come in.
That's where we can say that he has compromised information
that was secret national security information
that he swore to protect, but then he didn't protect it.
Not espionage act, but that is a criminal charge.
Do you think that's how he's in Russia right now?
Yeah, absolutely.
The way that that guy has been able to evade capture
isn't because big hearted countries around the world
want to support him.
It's because they're like,
Snowden is a giant black eye to the United States.
He's only getting help from countries
that hate the United States.
So that's how it works.
And if something were to happen the other way around,
I promise you right now, if some contractor
who does business on behalf of Russia's FSB,
if somebody were to come out
and basically out themselves in the press
and say, hey, Russia does this terrible thing.
America would be like, come on over to America.
We've got a nice house for you in Seattle.
Yeah.
We're gonna give you lots of prime time television spots.
Oh my God.
But do you think that's the only reason they're protecting him
is because it makes the US look bad
and it's a black eye to the United States
or is he actually giving them
any kind of compromising information?
Yeah, I don't think he has anything else to give.
No, he gave everything out publicly.
As soon as he left,
like I'm sure he didn't give everything out publicly
because he's a smart guy.
A smart guy would know you give 80% of it away publicly.
You keep 20% in reserve for that day
that Russia comes in and they're like,
okay, we don't really need you anymore.
You're like, ho, ho, ho, ho.
Did I tell you about this?
And then you buy a little bit more time.
So I'm sure he had stuff in reserve.
But yeah, the reason that Russia keeps him
is not because he's doing anything that helps them now.
He's not giving them anything that's super sensitive.
He's not talented enough
to be developing technology for them.
All of their resources are more talented than he is.
Maybe he can give them some context or some insight
into how American cybersecurity works.
But he's outdated.
He's obsolete in a lot of ways now.
But what he is still current on
is he is still a big hot seat.
Like he's a big hot ticket item in the United States.
If Russia gives Snowden back to the United States,
you can be sure it's because they're trading him
for people that have been captured in the United States
that they want back.
Wow.
Yeah, it's called a prisoner exchange or an intel exchange.
But couldn't he just be pardoned
by the president or something?
He could be if a president wanted to do that.
But that's not good politics.
They would most likely try to do a barter.
Yeah, most likely,
and I think that's what our government probably knows too,
is there like Snowden's being held in Russia
so that the next time we bust 70 legals
for your call back in like 2010 or 11,
we busted like seven Russian illegals
here in the United States and put them all in jail.
And then there was a big prisoner exchange.
So that's what they're waiting for.
They're waiting for the next big exchange
where like it's just public enough,
but not too public where they can be like,
hey, we'll give you Snowden and you can close this case
and you can show that the United States is all powerful.
But in exchange for that,
we're gonna want these three guys that you wrapped up.
Like that's what I think they're waiting for.
That's what most intelligence professionals think.
Snowden's value now is just as a chip for some future date.
Yeah, but you would think that,
you would think that just pardoning him
would take that power away from Russia, you know?
It would take that, they're holding him,
they have that leverage of Snowden.
If the president could just pardon him,
they would take that leverage away from them.
But it also validates what he did.
Like if you pardon one person who's been deemed a traitor,
what keeps you from pardoning a future trader
or a past trader, right?
And there have been some massive compromises.
CIA officers, NSA officers, DIA officers, contractors
for all different intelligence community firms.
How do you choose who gets a pardon,
who doesn't get a pardon?
And even worse, you're basically saying that Snowden,
what Snowden did was 100% right
and everything that our system did was wrong.
So now we're gonna pardon it.
And that's a hard thing to do, right?
That's basically admitting that our system is broken.
It's hard to admit that in a world stage,
even though we've had to come close recently.
Yeah.
Well, they did recently come out and say that
and admit that everything that they were doing
was illegal and violated the Constitution.
I think that was recently, I saw that in a,
I think it was a Washington Post article,
I think maybe like two weeks ago.
Yeah, correct, like the courts, the civilian courts
ultimately ruled that the secret courts
made the wrong call, right?
And that's why I still say that Snowden
did the right thing the wrong way, right?
Our civilian courts have said we should not have collected
this kind of information.
He did the right thing, calling attention to it.
But you don't call attention to something
by pawning it off to our most hostile enemies.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts on the whole election fraud scandal?
Do you think about that at all?
Have you talked about that at all?
Yeah, it's the whole...
With the Dominion servers and Russia and all this,
it's hard to keep a handle on all of it.
So here's, if anybody's old enough to remember the Matrix,
there's this, the whole first movie basically
revolves around this red pill and blue pill, right?
Why oh why didn't I take the blue pill?
The blue pill being the pill that keeps you ignorant
to all this stuff, right?
One of the first things that Espionage taught me
is that just because you're aware of it
doesn't mean it's not happening to you, right?
So in every election around the world
that has some nexus that impacts the United States,
I don't think it's surprising to think
that the United States is probably involved.
How can we make sure that things in Somalia
go favorably for us?
How can we make sure that things in the Middle East
go favorably for us?
Or in South America go favorably for us?
How can we, how can we as an intelligence infrastructure
influence that to make sure it works?
Why do we think that that hasn't been happening
the entire time the United States has been alive, right?
Japan was Japan, three, what?
300, 250 years before the United States
was the United States.
China was China, 3,000 years before the United States
was the United States.
Do we really think that we've ever had a presidential election
that hasn't had foreign influence?
What happened in 2016?
Yeah, what happened?
The Trumps that elected?
That was just when foreign influence was caught.
Do you see what I'm saying?
Every election before that, it's reasonable to assume
it had foreign influence, it had foreign interference.
When you say they were caught,
what do you mean specifically?
That means like Facebook caught Russia.
Right.
Twitter caught Russia, people caught Russia being involved.
Right.
Whether or not there was any, like.
Where they were using Facebook and social media
to basically create these toxic echo chambers on YouTube,
rallying people up on.
Correct.
Certain narratives or whatever.
Why do we think that that didn't happen before 2014?
Just because there's no evidence,
just because no one's looked,
like what makes us think that didn't happen in 2008?
What makes us think that didn't happen in 2004?
What makes us think that didn't happen in whatever, 1982?
Yeah.
Right?
Logically, every single presidential cycle
has foreign influence.
Logically, Russia would be involved
in every single one of them.
It just so happens that technology got to a place
in 2014 where Russia got too aggressive
and they got caught, just like SolarWinds.
Right.
You see what I mean?
We don't know if it was Russia or not.
Somebody got aggressive and technology made it
so we could catch it.
They caught it in 2014.
So what was everybody looking for in 2016?
They caught it.
Everybody was looking for it in 2020.
They caught it again.
Right?
So where do I land on the whole like election fraud
and whatever else?
I think that now that we know that the narrative is muddy,
now that we know without a shadow of a doubt
that foreign intelligence services
are actively involved in our election cycle,
like what is being said matters less than realizing
we can't trust everything that's being said.
How much of it is coming from somebody who has an opinion?
How much of it's being fabricated?
How much of it is alarmist rhetoric?
How much of it is genuine?
Not just on the Republican side either,
but on the Biden side too.
Let's not forget that like we had intelligence reports
that were saying China wanted Biden,
Russia wanted Trump.
Really?
Whether or not those are true reports or not,
what makes us think that China isn't just as involved
in the narratives happening right now
as Russia is accused of being involved
in narratives right now.
And we haven't even talked about Iran being involved
or about North Korea being involved.
Like it's not hard.
The whole cycle that there's an anatomy
for how you drive an influence operation.
And we know how that anatomy works.
It was silly for us if we ever thought
that somehow the United States
and our electoral process was independent
of influence operations before 2016.
Right.
I just think it's weird.
Like it's so much different now.
Like before it was Facebook,
now it's this weird company called Dominion
that owns these ballot machines or whatever.
And they somehow, their servers somehow
or got compromised and...
Or at least that's...
From Venezuela or whatever.
I can't even keep track of it all.
It's so confusing.
And that's a big, for me,
that's a big sign of a conspiracy.
When it's that confusing, right?
When it's that confusing and it's that complicated
and it's that hard to follow.
If it's that hard for you to follow
and you're a pretty smart guy,
how much harder is it to architect, right?
It's much, much easier for like somebody
to think up some sort of paranoid idea
and then someone like Iran or someone like Venezuela
chimes in with a couple of fake accounts
and magnifies that alarmist rhetoric, right?
It could all be real.
It could all be fake.
The problem is nobody's realizing it could be both.
People are either believing it's real
or believing it's fake.
Nobody's sitting around saying,
hey, like elements of this are probably real
and elements of this are probably fake.
Let's figure it out.
The definition of intelligence
is landing on a conclusion
when you don't have all the information.
That's what makes intelligence intelligence.
If you had a conclusion, it wouldn't be intelligence,
it would just be fact.
If you had no basis at all for what you're saying,
it would be fabrication.
It also wouldn't be intelligence.
Intelligence is what you do when you take missing pieces
and complete pieces and you put it all together
and you come to a conclusion.
And then that conclusion can change
but you land on some kind of conclusion.
My conclusion in this is elements of this are real.
Elements of this are fake.
We need time to collect more information.
Right.
Yeah, it's crazy that it's almost like,
it's almost just like a battle of different countries
around the world trying to determine
who the next president of the United States is gonna be.
I mean, could you think,
if you were in charge of China or Russia,
would you, that and I,
at putting tens of millions or even billions of dollars
into influencing the outcome of the United States
most powerful person?
It's gonna directly affect you in a positive way.
Absolutely.
Exactly, right?
Like we do it every day.
We're gonna buy the right kind of car insurance
that benefits us.
We're gonna go to a restaurant that benefits us.
We're gonna watch the show on Netflix that benefits us.
Like we're dedicating our resources
to making those decisions.
It makes perfect sense that some foreign country
would be like, well, we've got to dedicate resources
to getting the right person in that office.
Kind of a weird segue,
but have you ever heard of a guy named Barry Seal?
It's only faint.
He was a commercial airline pilot
who started working for the Medellin Cartel,
and he was flying tons of cocaine
from South America or Central America
to, I think it was Arkansas.
Nice.
And basically he got busted
and he became a DEA informant.
And he was when he was-
Was he one of your guests too?
No.
Or was his story told?
His story was told on one of my podcasts, yeah.
I think that may have been where I've seen it before.
Yeah, a guy by the name of Sean Atwood,
a guy who lives in the UK,
wrote a book about the war on,
a series of books about the war on drugs.
And basically there was a whole book about Barry Seal
and George Bush and the Clintons
when Bill Clinton was still a governor
or whatever the hell he was in Arkansas.
And this guy, Barry Seal, who was now a DEA informant,
flying drugs back and forth
from South America to the United States.
Basically there's like the theory is
that he was doing that for the government, for the CIA
to fuel the war on drugs.
And the government was directly doing business
with the Medellin Cartel.
And he could have compromised George Bush somehow
for being involved.
And when he was murdered,
the claim is that the US government, George Bush,
gave the Medellin Cartel, this guy's position,
basically gave him up so that they could execute him
so that it would bury everything.
Crazy, amazingly fascinating conspiracy
about the CIA's involvement with the war on drugs
and all of that, just diving down another rabbit hole,
which I thought was interesting.
It's definitely interesting.
And I would say, excuse me, I would say that
I don't ever write off conspiracy theories.
I've seen too many conspiracy theories turned into
conspiracies that turn out to be actual facts, not theories.
I don't think that the theory is ever 100% right,
but it might be 20%, right?
Do you know what I mean?
And just like we know about some shady stuff
that CIA has done for MKUltra and against Fidel Castro
and against leaders in the Congo, anything's possible.
We gotta remember that the agency, CIA,
is a tool of the executive branch.
The executive branch is the president's branch, right?
So that means the president can do whatever he wants
with CIA.
We don't fall under, we're not under the judicial branch.
We're not under the legislative branch.
We're under the executive branch.
We work for the executive.
If the president comes up with some harebrained,
wacky idea, like when he comes to us,
he has the authority to do what he wants to do.
And we are still a government organization.
CIA still does what they're told to do, right?
Sometimes they run it through attorneys.
Sometimes they run it through secret courts.
And secret courts might come back and agree
or disagree or whatever else.
But is it beyond the realm of reality
to think that that story is true?
Not at all.
CIA's done wacky stuff.
And if it comes to, if the president wanted it to happen,
like we ultimately salute, smile, and execute, right?
Like that's the job of a government servant.
Give everyone out there an idea
of where they can find more of the stuff you're doing
with your podcast, with your website,
with anything else.
How can people find you?
Yeah, absolutely.
If you are a podcast listener,
I've got a very popular podcast called Everyday Espionage.
You'll find me on all the major platforms out there.
Everyday Espionage, you can search for that.
You can search for Andrew Bustamante.
You'll find it there.
All of my lessons, everything that I teach
is available through everydayspy.com.
Everydayspy.com, I've got a free spy game out there
for folks to actually come on and test their own spy skills.
I've got tons of content.
A game?
You can play online?
Yeah, remember how I was telling you
about just-in-time learning?
How we learn, how we train,
basically just-in-time to use a skill?
We've simulated that same kind of training
into an online game that you can do right there
on the website.
I just wanna give people a taste of how fun and powerful
it is to learn these skills quickly
using that just-in-time learning process.
That's amazing.
Yeah, and then all of our content is available there,
and we offer all sorts of stuff through our newsletter
that you can sign up for there.
And then we've got social media, just like everybody else.
We're not as popular as you,
but you can find us on YouTube,
you can find us on Twitter,
you can find us on Facebook.
Everything is at Everyday Spy.
So yeah, if people wanna find me, reach out,
and let's talk, and it's a blast
doing what I do.
That's amazing, man.
Well, thank you for being here and sharing your knowledge
and your experiences with us.
I really appreciate that.
No, it's my pleasure, brother.
Cool, man.
Well, let's definitely do this again.
It's super interesting.
Yeah, I'm in.
Sweet.
Goodbye, world.
