Hello world. At 23 years old, Jessica Kent was incarcerated on drug and gun related charges
in Arkansas. Shortly after her arrest, Jessica discovered she was pregnant. Although she
was still struggling with withdrawals, she was given very little support in prison. When
she gave birth in prison at age 24, the process was barbaric as she was chained to the bed
and not allowed to get up even to use the bathroom for 48 hours afterwards. Today, Jessica
uses her YouTube channel to talk about PTSD, addiction, and other issues that she believes
in. Without further ado, please enjoy this episode with Jessica Kent.
Alright, thank you, Jessica Kent for doing this. Welcome. You have a sweet YouTube channel.
It's mediocre at best, but I appreciate the enthusiasm.
You have lots of cool videos with a wide variety of topics. Very interesting topics.
It gets crazy over there, but before we start, I just want to thank you for your patience
with me because this is an episode that was supposed to happen six months ago and it didn't.
So you've been very patient with me in my crazy schedule.
Oh yeah, no worries. No worries at all. Thanks for being here. How did you get started on
the whole YouTube journey that you've been on? After you got out of prison, what made
you want to start a YouTube channel? Yeah, I never thought I would talk about
my time in prison. It was not something that I even wanted my own family to know about
because it was so rough and I'm sure we'll get into that. But I actually found this gig
where I was talking to a reentry class in prison and I was filming these little videos
on my phone, like three, four minute videos, and it was like, yeah, man, you can get out
of prison and not go back. Like you can do it. And they were really short, like motivational
type videos. I got fired from that volunteer job because a new reentry teacher came in
and they're like, nah, she too street. We don't like her. We're not going to play these
videos in prison. So I was like, well, that fucking sucks. I have so much more to say.
And then I decided I was going to film seven videos on my phone sitting on the floor in
my living room and they were going to be called Heroin My Road to Recovery. And if people
find them cool, if they don't, whatever, I'm going to record a seven video series. That
was three years ago. Now I have like a thousand videos all across the internet and it kind
of just took off. And I realized how the fuck can you film your whole story in seven videos?
That makes no sense. And people came in and they were really supportive and really kind
and it just made me continue to share my story.
So wild. So many people that have stories similar to yours that I've spent a lot of
time in prison or fucked up their lives somehow, they end up finding stuff like this, like
an outlet on the internet where they gain tons and tons of momentum and followers and
stuff like that. And there's a huge following in true crime in general, the true crime genre
is bigger than it's ever been, I feel like right now.
Yeah, which is amazing. And it's a true testament to people can be hustlers in the street and
doing shit the wrong way. And if they take that same energy and that same drive and focus
to something positive, they're going to see success in that. So there are so many hustlers
in prison that could be entrepreneurs if they, you know, devote that time to that. So when
you see someone come out of prison and they're successful doing whatever it is, any kind
of business that should be celebrated.
So what was, how much time did you do in prison, first of all?
So I've served, I was always a short timer, just under five years or so.
Just under five years.
It's a long time.
Yeah.
And how old were you when you ended up going to prison and like, what's the story? How
did you land, how did you get in trouble?
Yeah, so birth, I was always in trouble from the age of like 13 is when I started to get
in trouble and started to get arrested. And I would get brought home drunk for underage
drinking and fights. And that kind of started this whole criminal life, I guess. So I got
put on pins probation. That was through the school because I was getting in fights and
drinking and just, I wasn't showing up for school and I was just a frickin wreck. A lot
different than other 13 year olds that are just getting in like tiny little trouble.
This was like a dramatic scene. So pins probation turned into youth probation. And then that
turned into adult probation. And then I caught my first felony at 17 at 17. You caught your
first felony. And that was criminal sales of a controlled substance. And the person
that I sold these pills to overdose and he didn't die. And you would think in that moment
that would scare me as it should, you know, like this is you're, you're really lucky this
person has his life. And what you're doing is dangerous and you need to get out of that
world. It reinforced everything that I wanted to be. I wanted to be a drug dealer. And I
didn't give a fuck about anyone or anything besides money and myself and my own addiction
at the time. And instead of being scared at the idea of prison or someone getting hurt
because of me, I threatened this kid's life. And he had to get a restraining order against
me because I was like, you fucking snitched on me. And now I'm going to go to, you know,
I'm getting locked up over this. So I was just a really angry, dysfunctional drug addicted
kid that did not care about anything, not consequences, not prison, not my own death. It
was just a really weird thing. Like I'm 32 and I'm a mother now, right? So to look back on the
teenager that I was, I don't even know who that is. It seems like it was a lifetime ago or not
even really me. So that first felony kind of set in motion a whole laundry list of stories and a
whole laundry list of things. I got one and a third to three. Didn't think it was a big deal.
Yeah, what one and a third to three. What does that mean? In New York, it means you have to
serve a year up to three. So you'll serve one and then the rest on parole. And I was violating my
terms and conditions of probation and then parole all the way through. I was getting violated for
absconding parole, which means going on the run, or failing drug screens, or getting into fights,
or just living with a felon that you can't live with parolees, can't live together. So I was
constantly breaking the rules. And it was just kind of a shit show to the point where parole had
to be like, we're maxing you out, because you're fucking absconding. What I would do is I knew I
was going to fail a drug test. So I'd run and I'd travel the country with this magazine group
of people. Have you ever seen American Honey? No. No? Oh my god. You? Maybe. Yeah. Should I look
up? Yeah. I did see that. So he's selling magazines door to door all across the country.
That's what I did to go on the run from parole. And they just had enough of me. So I maxed out.
So I served the rest of my time. No parole. So at like 19, I was like, oh man, I'm not on parole.
I can do whatever I want to do. No. I ended up selling a lot of heroin in upstate New York.
And that time was really dark. I was really addicted to heroin, getting in massive amounts of debt
because I was using heroin. And I was supplying heroin to my friends, my boyfriend. I was living
this weird lifestyle where I thought, really fast lifestyle. I was paying my bills, my parents'
bills, my mom's bills, my friends' bills, and traveling and partying. And I was racking up
thousands of dollars worth of debt. And it kind of came crashing down. February of 2011,
my boyfriend robbed a store that I worked at. And I was thousands of dollars in debt and my dealer
caught on to it. I was arrested for conspiracy to commit grand larceny, or no, I'm sorry,
conspiracy to commit armed robbery, grand larceny, false written statement, false police report,
because I lied to the cops. And then I went on the run again. So I'm like, well, I didn't rob a
fucking store. So I went on the run from a drug dealer that owed thousands of dollars to. And I
went on the run from New York State again. And I detoxed in a hotel in North, Norfolk, Virginia.
And I thought, just get a lawyer. You're gonna be fine. Not a big deal at all. Just get a lawyer
that way you don't have to detox in jail. And you're gonna fight this case, you're fucking innocent.
Turns out when you're on the run, you have to do illegal shit to survive. So long story short,
I find my way to Arkansas. And I was, I kind of transitioned into being a heroin dealer into a
meth dealer. And I got how was that transition? What how do you do that? Terrible. I knew absolutely
nothing about meth. I knew the world of heroin and pills and weed and I had all that down.
But meth is a different game. It's a different world. Everyone's trying to get over on you.
Everyone's trying to rip you off. And it's just this very strange underworld of people
that you think they're your friends, but they're constantly trying to steal your shit and then
help you look for it. It's fucking chaos. They're trying to sell you a TV and like stolen watches
and like an army knife or some shit. So it was just a crazy fucked up world. When you talk about
heroin, are you talking about like oxies and stuff and rock seas and all that kind of stuff?
Sure. Okay. Kind of. But I'm talking about heroin. Right. But that stuff is basically heroin, right?
Okay. Yeah. Same effect. Hail Billy heroin. That's what they call it. Yeah. Legal. I don't know.
People in Florida. People in Florida. Yeah. People in Florida should be a Netflix series.
It is. What's a YouTube series? It should be on Netflix. Florida Men.
We got heroin. It was a different lifestyle. You know, people don't want to be sick from
heroin. So they'll do anything to bring you cash. Meth is like a different thing. And I couldn't
keep up. I wanted my reputation, you know, to kind of follow me wherever I went. Like, oh,
I'm good for this. My product is good. But I couldn't keep up with meth heads that were and I was a
meth head too. But I couldn't keep up with people on meth that were constantly saying your shit is
cut and I'll sell you this TV. So it was just a complete mess. And I was also at the time heavily
addicted to meth. Because I realized you're not going to get sick really when you come down off
meth. You're going to sleep and you're going to eat. Well, my DOC was heroin. So when I figured
that on a meth, it was like, oh man, I'm not going to throw up and have explosive diarrhea. TMI,
I'm sorry. But I'm not going to be violently sick. And I really liked that. But I got down to like
85 pounds. And I'm already really small. So you can imagine I was like a napkin flying out of
car windows. I was small. Like I was tiny. But October of 2011, I got another three felonies.
On top of the felonies that I have now out of New York. So it was very overwhelming for me. But
my felonies were possession of intent with intent to deliver almost three ounces of meth,
simultaneous possession of drugs and a firearm, and delivery of meth in the south. They were
not fucking around. Jesus. And how old were you during all this?
Jeez, at that time, 23. So young. Yep. But that's, I was 23. That's 10 years in that world.
So to me, like saying that I was 23. Yeah, I was really young. But at that time, I had lived
10 different lives by the time I was 23. So I had those felonies in Arkansas. So I'm going back.
But I also have felonies out in New York. So I had no idea how much time I was going to get.
I didn't know if it was going to be 20 years like they first said when I was arrested.
And in Arkansas, 20 years doesn't really mean 20 years, but that was a learning curve.
Plus I have all these felonies in New York. So I really didn't think that I would even be sitting
here right now. I didn't think I'd be out of prison until I was like 40 at the time.
Wow. It was really scary. So as I was trying to figure out what New York is going to do,
what Arkansas is going to do, trying to navigate the prison system down there and what the laws
even really mean, I found out that I was also pregnant. And like I can go to prison. I can do
the time. I fucking deserve it. I know I do. And but the variable of pregnancy, how the
fuck do you go to prison pregnant? I had no idea. I had no concept for what that looked like or
what that would mean for my life or now my unborn child. I didn't know if she was going to be safe.
I didn't know if I was drinking enough water or getting nutrition for her. It was a lot. Plus
I'm coming down off of drugs. I don't know if she's healthy. I don't even know if I'm healthy.
So at first, like the first few weeks in jail in Arkansas, I was terrified for the first time in my
life. It caught my attention. Like this isn't about you anymore. You have to stop being a selfish
kid running and gunning and thinking that you're a thug. And now you have to take responsibility
for your shit. And that was a mountain. So once you you ran down south from New York and you
started getting into meth and all that, how did you eventually get arrested and sentenced?
Those are two different things. So those are well arrested. Okay. So I was going to leave
Arkansas many times. And I had friends that would get me a bus ticket so I could leave.
I would call them up in a moment of clarity and say, I'm really fucked up. I'm really sick.
Treatment. I need your help. And I would have friends buy me bus tickets that they,
I mean, they would do that in a heartbeat. And I really appreciate that looking back
because they tried, you know, and someone was there trying. But I had a bus ticket.
And at 430 in the morning, downtown Fort Smith, Arkansas October 20th of 2011,
I decide that instead of sitting in this hotel waiting for the bus the next morning,
I'm going to go to the gas station and get food. Why the fuck? I have no idea.
Nothing good happens at 4am in the South. No one is out. You're not in Times Square.
Like there is no one on the roads. Just you tweakers and cops. That's it. I'm the tweaker.
And there was a cop across the street from the gas station. And we pulled into this gas station.
And I saw him and I thought, fuck, leave everything here. Throw it away. Don't, don't
drive away from this gas station with drugs and guns. Like this is, you're going back.
And the person that I was with, I was trying to let him know, like,
we're about to get arrested. Like we're at least about to get pulled over. Make sure you ditch
everything. And there's this thing in the meth world where everyone's like, you're paranoid.
It's not even that bad. Like you're fine, relaxed, you're too high, you've been up for too many days.
And it's not paranoia if they're really fucking coming for you. So try to convince someone that
is also high on meth that you're about to be arrested. You can't because when you get high
on meth, people will look out the curtains and they think the cops are coming for them.
So you cannot tell someone this is really going to happen. They don't believe you.
They think that everything is a scam. Everything's a game. So he thought I was going to try to take
whatever stuff he had, right? Because if you leave it at the gas station, maybe I have planned
for someone to go in and get it. There's no reasoning with this person at all. So I get back
in the car and I'm like, okay, I'm going to fucking prove it to you. Let's go to prison today.
Like instead of just not getting in that car and walking away, I just wanted to prove a point.
So we pulled out of the gas station and sure enough, within two minutes,
cop gets behind us and hits the lights. Now I am really high, like really fucked up.
On meth.
And I'm texting a million miles an hour to everyone I know, jail for Smith, jail for Smith,
jail for Smith, because that way they're going to know I've got arrested and I'm in for Smith.
Well, sober people didn't know what that meant. They're like, why did just text me at 430,
jail for Smith? What the fuck does this mean? I'm texting people that I sell to,
I'm texting my family, I'm texting my friends in different states, so they know where I am.
Half of them had no fucking idea what that text meant. But I'm like, someone's going to know
where I'm at. I'm going to get bond. Well, when the cop came to the window, he immediately opened
my door. And he immediately took me out of the car. And I'm like, this is not a routine traffic
stop. This is very different. And within five minutes, DTF was on scene, the Drug Task Force.
And that looks like unmarked cars and cops in regular street clothes in like a badge
with like around their neck or whatever. And I'm looking around and I'm like, oh fuck,
usually when I go to jail, it's just a second cop car pulls up and maybe a drug dog. This looks
dramatic, you know, so I immediately was like running through my mind of this has been an
investigation and they know who the fuck we are. And I was I was scared, but I was also like a really
angry, high little shit of a person. So you know, he he arrest me almost immediately. They search
the car, they find two ounces of meth and a gun. And I get sent to jail, where I'm trying to come
down and trying to get through the intake process, which is a really long day. And DTF came in
within a few hours to interview me. And I told to interview me. And I told them to go fuck themselves
and take me back to my cell. And they're like, Are you kidding me right now? Like we have pictures
of you from inside your own car. Here's a picture of you selling a big bag of meth. And I'm like,
I don't give a fuck taking back to myself. I go back to my cell. And I think the next day is when
a new charge slid under my door on this piece of paper, like a CEO had brought it in. And it was
delivery of meth. So now, you know, I had the two charges when I was arrested and then delivery of
meth came a little bit later. And the DTF or the drug task force tried to interview me probably three
or four more times before I finally took a plea six months later. And every single time I meet her
to tell them, I'm not fucking helping you get meth off the street. That's not my job. You're a
crime stopper. Figure it the fuck out. And the whole time, everyone around me was like, Jess,
everyone snitches in Arkansas. There are three kinds of people in Arkansas, those that told,
those that wish they told, and those that wish they had somebody to tell on. Which one are you?
And I'm like, I'm a lost New Yorker. Like what the fuck? You don't snitch where I'm from. And I just
didn't understand. I really didn't. Until I did until my emotional discovery came back and there
were strangers in it. People snitched on me that I had never met before. So it just kind of made
sense. Same thing for everyone that I knew. Strangers will snitch on you to get out of that
arrest because they just want to go back out on the street and use meth. And that's the meth world.
You know, there's absolutely no loyalty. And it's just a really fucked up place to be.
I don't think it's only in Arkansas from the amount of people we've had on here. It's everybody
snitches on exactly what you said that goes. That's the way it goes everywhere.
Yeah, it's fucked up. It's fucked up. I'm a firm believer and do your own time.
If you're running and gunning and you're in that lifestyle and you get arrested and just to get
out of trouble, you try to tell on someone else, fuck you. Do your own time. We had this guy on
here last week and he was talking about how he he was in prison for like 20 years and he met some
old guy who ran a Ponzi scheme just randomly like on his and like 10 years and he met this old guy
and they'd walk the yard together. And he said this guy was just like telling him a story about
all this stuff and where he has this money buried or whatever. And he asked him, he's like,
can I trust you to tell you this? And he's like, probably not. And he's like,
fuck it. And he told him and then he immediately went to the feds and told them and he got like,
he got like five years knocked off his sentence. Maybe seven or something.
And the guy that he told on only got like six months added to his sentence.
Man, I mean, for what? Five years, he got five years for it. Would you do it for five years?
To get five years knocked off my sentence. Would you tell on some old guy who and get
that what ran a Ponzi scheme to get five years of freedom?
No, because you have to think about it. Yeah, he got five years, years knocked off of his sentence,
but now every single person on that compound knows you're a snitch. There's not a second that I'm
going to live in that in that light. It's dangerous. You know, so there's there's not a fucking chance
in hell. Yeah, it depends on the kind of a correctional facility you're in, right? If you're
in there with a bunch of people that are dangerous or you're in there like in a low level one with
a bunch of like blue collar criminals, then everyone can be dangerous on any day. Emotions
run really high in prison. They're not, you know, we're not drinking enough water. We're not getting
enough sleep. We're not getting enough nutrition. We're away from our family. Emotions run really
fucking high. I've seen people get beat up over a 50 cent pizza sauce packet. Like people are not
playing. So anyone can be dangerous at any moment in time, no matter what level you're at of prison.
But yeah, man, I'm not snitching. Yeah. What kind of you were in like a state prison? What kind of
where were you? So most women do time in maximum security prisons. Okay. So I was maximum security
and that might seem weird, right? Like my cell in the last place that I was at had capital murder
because there's not a lot of facilities for women. So men will get transferred around a lot, you know,
low level crimes will be kind of sectioned off with low level crimes. And there's all of these
yards that you can you can go on. It's different for women. So men will go like through diagnostic
and then they'll go finally to their home jail. The feds will move you all around.
It's just very different for women. We had had a couple of female ex cons on here about a year
ago and they were talking about how they were in a low, low security prison camp. And they were
saying that they could basically manipulate the guards however they wanted. Like they would have
the guards basically like wrapped around their fingers because they would just, you know, these
guys, these guys who were prison guards were kind of like losers. And they were just like desperate
for any kind of attention from a female. So these girls would just like play them as far as they
could take it as far as they possibly could to get whatever they wanted to the point where these
these prison guards would bring them like McDonald's. That's not what it was like when you were there.
I cannot believe it. That is shocking and devastating. Hey, one second. Hey, Michael,
can you hit the power button on the AC behind the bookshelf real quick? Just turned off.
Sorry, go ahead. So yeah, that happens. It happens. You can get anything that you want in prison.
It doesn't matter if you're a male or a female, you can get anything you want. If you're good at
manipulating guards, if you have money, you can get what you want. You can do drugs in prison,
you can drink alcohol in prison, you can get McDonald's and free world food. It's not easy.
It takes time. You know, it takes time to kind of warm up a guard or manipulate a guard into
doing those things for you. But it happens every single day. Yeah. Now, so you got arrested, you
went to jail. And then how long did it take for you to get sentenced or get like a plea, a plea
deal? How did that process go? So the last time. New York is quick. Arkansas is kind of slow.
They gave me a plea within, I want to say like a few weeks, a month or so, and it was 20 years.
And I said, fuck you. No, I'm not signing a 20-year plea. And then they came back and said,
probably two more months later, they said, what was it, 10 years. And I was so happy because
we were negotiating. You went from 20 to 10. That's amazing. Still no. But great, we're negotiating.
And I had a public defender because when you're a drug dealer, all your assets are seized, all
your money is taken, car, anything that you own is taken because they just assume that you have
gotten all of that from selling drugs. So I didn't have a good lawyer. And I was being told by my
public defender, we're going to go to trial and you're going to fucking lose. Like please listen
to me and take this 10-year plea. 10 years is really, you'll do 50% of your time, which is five
years. And now I'm like really pregnant at that moment. Really? I found out I was pregnant like
three weeks into this arrest. And I didn't know how to handle that or what to do.
Three weeks after you're already in jail? Yeah. Holy shit. They didn't test me for my pregnancy
when I came through intake in this jail, which is really bizarre because a lot of places do that.
Just to make sure that no one's getting pregnant while they're there, right? So I didn't even
think about it because I was high and it just didn't cross my mind in the intake process.
But I found out I was pregnant because another girl put in a sick call for me because I was
really sick after I had been there for a few weeks and it was something beyond coming down off drugs.
So yeah, I found out I was pregnant and these pleas, like I can't sign a 20-year plea because
I'm never going to get out for this kid. I can't sign a 10-year plea because I'm never
going to get out for this kid. If I was not pregnant and they said 10, but 50% of your time,
I would have signed it in a heartbeat to get out of county jail. County jail's horrible. I can do
five years. But I just knew that I had to fight as hard as I possibly could so that I could get
out for this baby without snitching because at the time, like right before this arrest, I sold
meth for the cartel and I just wasn't going to go. So six months into my stay, I got a five-year
plea and when I tell you I signed that piece of paper so fast, I had never signed paper faster.
I'm like, give it to me. So I got five years, 15 suspended, 40 years exposure. That's just a bunch
of noise to say that if I ever commit another felony in the state of Arkansas, I am so fucked.
But I'm retired now, so it's fine. It's working out. I am currently off parole,
but I am still serving suspended sentence time and then my 40 years exposure kicks in,
which is just, again, noise for don't commit another felony.
So explain to me what that was like when you first found out you were
pregnant in prison, like that you have to go to like a clinic and they like, how does that go
with women who get pregnant or who are pregnant when they get incarcerated?
Every facility is different. So I can't speak for what it's like to be pregnant in other places.
I can just speak on my experience in Arkansas. So when I found out I was in complete denial
because I didn't know how to handle it. I'm coming off drugs. I'm looking at 20 years.
I can't handle it. So I remember telling the nurse like, you got the wrong one.
You mixed up my stuff with someone else. There's no way. No way I'm pregnant. She's like,
okay, crazy. You can go back to your cell now. Like weird. And this was just like mentally for me.
It was it was too much to handle. So for my first two months in, I probably just didn't even think
about it. Logistically, the jail had to come to the realization that I'm not going anywhere.
I'm going to be here for a long time. So they had to take me to the free clinic in the street.
So I would be cuffed up, chained up and taken into the free world in orange and chains to
doctor's appointments. So embarrassing. And they wouldn't like bring me through the back door.
No, no, we're walking through the front door. And like they'd hear the chains. Everyone would
turn and look. I had one girl taking pictures of me one time. And I'm like, I swear to God,
if I was not in these handcuffs, I would get the fuck out of you. Like I was so embarrassed and so
mad. And that's just how they handled it at that facility. You're like sitting in the lobby and
shit with all the other people. Wow. With two guards on my side. Like I like I'm a serial killer
or something. And it was so embarrassing. And like I think every moment throughout my incarceration
this last time was so embarrassing and so hard, like mentally draining, physically exhausting.
It was so traumatic and difficult for me that like it just it changed everything for me.
It changed how I saw myself, how I looked at the world, how I looked at the street life that I
had meditated on for so long. Like I was 12 and 13 saying like I'll go to prison one day,
but I'll just handle it. Like that makes no fucking sense. So finally I get my plea,
and I get transferred out of county and sent to prison, right? Well, I have to give birth at some
point. So that has to happen. At what point do you like accept the fact that you're pregnant?
And do you have like some sort of like mind like a change in your way of thinking to where like
you want to actually like take care of the baby and like and think about like being a mom and then
getting out of prison. What are you going to do when you get out? What's it going to be like when
you give birth and then you get separated? Like did you start to like think about this kind of
stuff and did that start like change your way of thinking at all? Like in labor, I thought maybe
I am having a baby. Like I was I was just in such denial for so long and I didn't know what to do
or how to handle it, right? So when I got to prison, they transferred me out of the max into a medium
and that will make sense in a second. I had met other girls at the time that were also pregnant
and you know I would watch them because we're all at different stages of our pregnancy. I'd
watch them go have their babies and then come back to the unit and show pictures and then see
their babies on like a Saturday because these babies went with family members. Right. And I'm
like oh this chick did it. I can fucking handle this. I'm tough. I got this. I can do it. I had
nine months to prepare for what was about to happen and I just thought you know if I'm seeing
these women do it and I've had nine months to mentally prepare for having my baby and then
coming back to prison, I can do this. I have gone through so much shit. I can handle this. Well
it was like four o'clock in the morning which is like my time I guess for everything happening
and I went into labor and I was just in complete denial that I was in labor. I didn't want to tell
the guards I was in labor because I never talked to the guards and I was just really scared.
Well they made me walk down to the infirmary which was very difficult and active labor
and I get to the infirmary and I thought they're gonna help you now because you're at the infirmary
like which is a really long walk. Prison has long hallways. You have to be buzzed through every
single door. They have controlled movement. You can't just like walk freely. It's not like Orange
is the New Black so it takes time to get to where you're going and I thought oh man just get to
the infirmary and they're gonna help you out. I got there by like 4.30 maybe five o'clock and
the the CEO or like the nurse says to me just sit down here and when shift change comes then
we'll take you to the hospital. I'm like shift change. That's at like 7.30 and they have to do
count on the compound and corrections officers no offense if you are one and you're listening
can't count. Right. So they fuck it up every single time. Don't worry you offended plenty of them.
Cool. I'm sorry but count gets fucked up every single day all day long. They just they cannot
count and they misplace inmates which means like I'm in the infirmary they're gonna fuck it up
because I'm supposed to be on the unit so I just know that that's gonna take forever.
I had to sit there in active labor by myself in a wheelchair with like a puppy pad underneath me
just by myself watching the clock. As you were in labor. Inactive labor. First time mom I have no
idea what's gonna happen and no one took it seriously because my water didn't break but I
don't know what that means like I've never had a fucking baby before so I'm like I don't know if I
should be at the hospital right now I don't know what's happening and all I could think in that
moment and this is probably the first time in my life I've ever thought this is I just wish my mom
was here. I just wish my mom was here. So finally we go to the hospital and the the nurses are like
swishing around me and they're talking to the CO's and they're not really talking to me and
I feel so degraded and embarrassed that I'm here as an inmate plus I'm also in extreme pain
and they asked me if I wanted an epidural but they asked me through the guards if I could have one
and I'm like this is a medical decision you're gonna ask a CO if I can get have an epidural
they're they're fucking babysitters they're not medical professionals it was just a really
bizarre experience for me so I am trying to like mentally prepare for having a baby today like we
are having a baby today by myself with no one just CO's on my shoulder my family's not here
I don't know where my baby is gonna go I don't know how to have a baby like it's so much are you
in any communication with your family at all zero at this point because once you leave the prison
and you're out you can't make a phone call you can't let them know that you're outside of the
facility it's a security risk but how earlier have you spoken with them prior to going into labor
that's a good question I think I had wrote my mom a letter maybe that month I would talk to
my mom as much as I could prison phone calls are really expensive so I couldn't call my mom
that often but we would write pretty regularly a couple of times a month I wasn't exactly even
sure of my due date you know we were just kind of guessing so she didn't know I was having a baby
she did but she didn't so um Micah was born at three and I to prepare for this I thought
when she comes out they're gonna take her over here and I'm just gonna look over here
and if I don't look at her maybe I'll be okay like then I won't love her and as weird as that sounds
and as much as people have judged me for saying that in the past you have to understand I spent
nine months preparing to give birth to a child I wasn't going to have and I didn't know what to do
so I had to put these walls up or these barriers up in my own mind for a second because it was
so heavy and so hard for me to handle so the CEO at the time shift change came an awful one came
in but the CEO that was with me during this process was actually really nice to me and she saw what
I was doing and she said girl it was a female it's nice no it was a female and a male the dude
left he's like I think we're good here I'm gonna step outside and I'm like thank you bro
like thank you um but she sees what I'm doing she sees that I'm not looking at this baby and
she says girl you better look at that baby and I did and she was the cutest thing I've ever seen
in my life and they brought her over to me and I held her and you asked a minute ago if I had
thought throughout my pregnancy that I was going to be different no not until I saw my daughter
when I saw her everything changed everything changed and people talk about mama bear instincts
but they don't say like you will kill for this little baby that you met five seconds ago and
it's so fierce and it's so strong so during my pregnancy I was trying to protect this baby I you
know I was trying to make sure I was eating enough and drinking enough water and staying
active and healthy the best that I could in prison I had to fight for prenatal vitamins at one point
and I was just desperate to keep this baby inside of me healthy but I didn't think beyond that
so now when I'm holding her on her birthday I thought oh my god I have to protect her at all
costs I have to be there for her which is a really traumatizing thing because two days later I had
to go back to prison and I'm grateful for the two days that I had they let you have two days with
the baby I was only supposed to have 24 hours so uh the doctor came in and for whatever reason she
granted me another 24 hours and I was so grateful because you only get 48 hours in the hospital if
you're an inmate if it's a c-section and I didn't have a c-section so I was so grateful I still to
this day don't know why she gave me the extra day but I'll take it um and I was trying to
like prepare during those two days for like leaving I just wanted time to stand still so I
could stay with her and unfortunately the co's that were with me they refused me getting up and
going to the bathroom getting up and walking around they refuse these requests so my recovery was
really hard but at the at the time in the hospital I didn't know wait after you had the baby they
refused you going to the bathroom they didn't want to unchain me that often Jesus Christ
so because I was so embarrassed I didn't push and I didn't fight I have a baby in my arms if
it was just me and I was just a regular inmate in a hospital bitch unchain me I have to go to the
bathroom like I would have lost my mind but I was so scared of like something happening to my baby
that I kind of just let them treat me however they wanted because they're intimidating and
every aspect to my attitude and my personality completely changed when I saw this baby and I
was really afraid of the guards that were in there because they were shitty to me and what's
even more disgusting is that the co's that were with me were mostly female these the two days that
I was there there were women they were women and denying me bathroom privileges and the doctor
came in and said hey she has to get up and walk around so that her recovery is better and the
co straight up said no it's a security risk so being left chained to a bed for two days after
you give birth just because you're an inmate is the most fucked up thing that we could ever do
in this country to women in prison it's fucked up and I didn't possibly be worried about like
you're you're in a gown I mean I'm not only in a gown but I had an epidural I had a whole ass
baby okay like not I don't want to like gross y'all out but like you can't run after a baby
like your sore everything hurts and even if you have a that's crazy if you have a c-section they
only give you two days like it takes you minimum two days to recover from a c-section if you're
not in prison or whatever like you have to stay there for two days mandatory then after that you
can't even walk for a couple days after that I can't imagine how hard it would have been if I had a
c-section like women that have had c-sections are fucking warriors I can't imagine how painful
that must have been but yeah I I now have to go back to prison right like it's coming yeah so
it was I don't know one or two in the afternoon on day two and the guards came in and they're
getting me ready in a case where it comes in and takes my picture and they let me know that your
daughter's gonna go into foster care and they're they're saying things but I'm not really paying
much attention because whatever I have to look at this baby and stare at her I have to hold her
and stare at her and talk to her and tell her I'll be back for you and I am almost losing it
finally a guard comes in and she is at the she's at my back so she's at the door and my back is
to her and Micah is now in this little bassinet and she said Kent it's time to go and I'm holding
on to the bassinet and I said no you can't tell us you know no let's pause there it's a bad idea
but she said don't make this harder than it has to be and I was just I was so like I will kill you
over this baby right like I have to protect her I can't leave her and the co's come at me from
behind and they grab me by the shoulders and they grab me and throw me into this wheelchair and
immediately they're working together to shackle me up and chain me to this fucking wheelchair
and as fast as they get me down in the wheelchair they fly me out of this hospital room and we're
now flying down this corridor to get me out of this hospital so that I don't get violent and cause a
scene I guess and all I can think about is but what about this baby like what about my baby she's
alone in this room like what is going to happen and I completely lost my mind they left the baby
alone in the room in the bassinet because a nurse is going to come in and foster care is
going to come in and take custody of her but all I can think about is the room is now empty
you know and that baby is by herself and I was like tears were just pouring out of my face
and I was shaking like violently shaking and scared and it was just awful people are staring
at me as we're whooshing past people and they throw me into the van outside and they close the door
and then they get in the van and they're we're driving away right and then the conversations of
these officers were like completely fucking normal you know like oh what are we gonna do for lunch
and I'm like what are we gonna do for lunch are you fucking kidding me they're talking like it's a
regular day at work and this is single-handedly the most traumatizing experience I've ever gone
through and we go back to the prison and we go into the sally port and the co's are trying to talk
to me and ask me questions but I can't even really hear them and I can't speak and I didn't think
about why but the next moment that I kind of came out of that I guess I realized that I was in the
infirmary I didn't know how long I had been there but I knew that I wasn't in GP and I wasn't on my
unit so I didn't I didn't know then but I know now that I have PTSD and the reason why I don't
remember what they said to me and the reason why there's huge gaps like days missing after I get
back to the prison is because it was so traumatic for me that my brain was just trying to protect me
from the trauma that I was experiencing yeah so there are days missing after Micah was born
where I just don't really know what happened I don't maybe I slept the whole time I don't know but
I wish I knew what the guard said when I came back I wish I knew what was going on but I have no
fucking idea and I I laid there for probably a week or two and finally I woke up one morning
and I thought you cannot be there for her if you're gonna sit in this bed get up like what the
fuck are you doing here why are you in the infirmary still go back to the unit and I asked the nurse
like hey um can I go back to my unit do I have to stay here and she goes oh well how are you feeling
I'm like I feel fine I'm okay I just I kind of want to go back to the unit and she said yeah I'll
get the paperwork now if you think you're ready to go back then you can go back which is bizarre to
look back on because I didn't have a psychological evaluation done then I didn't have any medical
or mental health professionals coming in and talking to me that I remember maybe they did I
don't remember it I just went back to my unit and I signed up for every class I could take
I signed up for thinking errors and parenting classes and just anything I could think of to
make it look good for my jacket so that I could try to get out early and I didn't get a picture of
my daughter until she was probably two or three months old I didn't get visitation with her I
didn't talk to her on the phone I didn't know where she was I didn't know who had her and the first
time that I finally saw her again she was six months old and it was at a family court hearing
and that was really hard the judge granted me like 15 minutes in chambers with her and I got to
hold her for 15 minutes and I got to meet the foster family and they were such an incredible
couple the the wife was very interested in what I had to say and just very kind and compassionate
immediately I could tell that she wasn't judging me I could tell that she really loved my daughter
and for the first time in six months I was so relieved that a good person has my daughter
because I didn't really know like she was writing me letters after the first couple of months but
I didn't know and I'm a firm believer in like energy so like I really loved her energy and she
was just so kind her husband was in a blue polo in the corner of the room with his arms crossed
and I'm like he's a cop I could just tell so I wrote her a letter once I got back to the
prison and I asked is is your husband a cop and she goes oh yeah he is he is a cop I can tell so
it was that awkward like cop inmate vibe and I could just pick up on it which was really funny at
the time like the irony in in that but they they took such good care of her and I told Heather
the foster mom I told her I'm gonna do whatever I can to be in Micah's life I'm changing my life
and I will be there for her as soon as I get out and she believed me and she she saw how serious
I was in that moment her husband did not yeah because statistically he would have been right
I was a drug addict multiple time offender you know so to say that she's not gonna be able to
get it together and you we're gonna be able to adopt this baby that's a fair statement
judging by all of the signs I would have probably made the same assessment I am different I I got
out and was released to a halfway house so I was technically homeless I had prison shower
shoes which are really janky flip flops and I had sweatpants that said 711 548 my inmate number
that's all I owned in the world keep them I bought them oh yeah that's awesome pay for them you still
hope you still have them I don't actually I have a prison t-shirt with my number on it but I think
I lost the sweatpants I know they were really comfortable too I worn them in so I was homeless
and I got a couple of jobs one was at a telemarketing job and one was at a smoke shop like vapor
smoke shop and I had to travel four hours to have visitation with my daughter because that's where
she was placed and in order for me to do that I had to hustle to get rides so she was placed
you know four hours away and I'd get hustle get rides visit with her for two hours to hustle back
and I was you know working these two jobs and trying to save up money I had to get a driver's
license and that's kind of hard because all my shits in New York so I had to get a birth certificate
and like it was just so much right I had to get an apartment to make sure that I could you know
have a place for Micah it was just obstacle after obstacle after obstacle in Arkansas they don't want
to rent you if you're a felon so that was even more of an obstacle and I was doing hair follicle
drug testing and I was doing all these things for parole and it was I was doing therapy I mean it was
a very long process that spanned over a year long and finally a year after my release I was granted
full custody of Micah really nine years old that's awesome what was the um what was like the arrangement
with like the foster family and you did you guys like have some sort of like mutual understanding
of like like because sometimes you would imagine if there's a foster family that takes a baby a
brand new baby they'll get attached to it and they'll want to keep the baby a thousand percent they
loved her to death and I'm so glad that she was with people that loved her and a lot of people
think they can't do foster care because they're like I'm gonna get attached and I'm gonna love that
child and I'm not gonna want to give her back or give him back um if you have that much love to give
you should be a foster parent yeah um despite you know your own personal feelings and attachments
if you have that kindness and that love you should open your home if if possible because we have so
many kids in foster care so don't get me started on that um but the arrangement was that if I lost
I would move to the town that they were in and I would have you know daily access to Micah and
she would still be in my life which I appreciated but I wasn't gonna settle for that I was gonna
fight until my last breath to have custody of my baby and really to be completely transparent I thought
I was gonna lose because the odds were heavily stacked against me and I just wanted my daughter
to know I fought for you until the end and then when I lost I appealed it and I fought more and I
fought and I've been fighting all your life I didn't want her to think that I didn't love her
and then I just gave up on her so I really thought that I was just going to lose and she would know
that I fought the best that I could I had heard horror story after horror story of parents losing
their kids and not getting in the back so I I really thought that was gonna be the case with me so
if anyone's listening and they're shocked that I got my kid back me too bro me too I didn't know
how to raise a kid or cook anything like I didn't know how to be a mom but I learned and Micah
taught me every day what to do and you know it it's amazing looking back that I was able to do
everything that I did in such a short time you know and I'm really proud I think my my biggest
achievement my biggest accomplishment is getting custody of Micah and then obviously you know staying
sober and doing everything else that I've done but that if that didn't happen nothing else would
happen if I would have lost her I would have I'd probably be dead I probably would have relapsed
how long did it take you to finally get custody from the time you got out of prison until you got
full custody over over a year over a year still it doesn't like one year doesn't seem like that
long of a time to do that it doesn't but it was really hard really you know they didn't want to
give her up not the foster family oh this is the court system oh okay gotcha so I had to do you
know drug testing and psychological testing and therapy and meetings like NA and AA meetings and
parole and go visit her every single week I never missed one visit even though I didn't have a car
to start with so I would just hustle and I'm like asking people at work I need a ride I need a ride
like help me please give me a ride um so it was it was a tremendous struggle but I did it and I
still can't I still don't even know how like when did I sleep I was working two jobs at the same time
right so it was crazy I think I just worked myself into staying sober like I worked to death and I
had no time to think about you had no time to yeah it's crazy there's people like out there like
that people that would just take in a random baby into their life and and raise a brand new baby
that's so much work so much work you lose so much sleep it just takes away so much from you you know
do you have kids yeah I have one kid so you know yeah I couldn't imagine just being like okay let's
take somebody else's kid and and you know let's raise it tell her he or she is too and then give
it back like that's yeah it's the most I would love to be a foster parent but I understand why
like to some people it's like holy fuck why would you want to do that so much
but if I wasn't like a career criminal on paper I would love to be a foster parent
because we have like over 400,000 kids in foster care that need good homes so
really how I wonder how many do you know like the statistics on how many children are born
in prison like to mothers that like are incarcerated like give birth like you wouldn't think I would
I should know that I have a whole ass degree in correctional programs for services I don't
have the numbers on it I bet you a lot of them get knocked up by the guards right why do you think
that I mean because I know it happens a lot right in prison like a lot of the female inmates will
have sex with the male guards it's not as widespread as you would think like pregnancy by a guard
sex yeah it's it's happening because I know it happened in Coleman that prison up in
in north Florida there was a girl there who claims she got raped by one of the guards and then she
got pregnant and they found out that her baby was the guards actual baby yeah and then they
ended up like firing the guy and he got I think he got in trouble I mean he should yeah so that's
insane yeah for sure it's not it's not as widespread though as you would think like pregnancy
I'm not saying sex is not widespread in prison I'm saying like pregnancy right right a lot of
women go in to jail in prison pregnant and they shouldn't unless they're fucking serial killers
can they stay home until they have their baby so it's not traumatic like it's the bare minimum
house arrest would suffice most women are in on nonviolent charges nonviolent drug charges specifically
like yours right you had guns but yeah were you violent on paper technically I'm a violent
offender okay but I'm not violent I wasn't gonna hurt anybody for me when I say these things like
women should be able to stay home I fucking know I deserve to go to prison you know I did my time
I know that I deserved it I am technically a violent offender so for me that wouldn't have
changed the outcome for me but it can change the outcome for so many other women and I don't think
anyone I don't think any prison should house pregnant women unless they have a nursery program
because oh my god just the trauma surrounding leaving your baby not just for the mother but
for the baby as well it's so hard I mean you're ripping a baby out of you know it's mother's hands
like this baby has heard the mom's heartbeat and voice for nine months and you're taking that away
yeah so it was like the everything from like the breastfeeding to like that's really important how
did you deal with that that's a really good question they have to like tape you up or something
I I was given ace bandages and told to wrap my chest with ace bandages really and it was the
most painful experience of my life I have some friends that are trans that had top surgery
and they're like you shouldn't wrap it your chest so tightly I can't believe you had to go through
that um but it was excruciating it was really really bad and my boobs did not look good no
I have faked it so we fixed it but it just looked awful and it hurt it hurt for like two months I
want to say so it was really hard and plus because I wasn't walking around in that room like my
recovery was really bad so I was like limping because of whatever reason I'm not a doctor
but my epidural I felt everything on one side not the other so it was reversed in the healing
process where like my limp was on the opposite side and my back killed like my back was so sore
they fuck up the epidural I don't know I don't know if that is like a common thing where the
epidural doesn't set but I was blessed with a second daughter Riley and she's five that experience
was literal bliss and epidural was fire as fuck and I didn't feel anything and like I knew what to
do I felt when I was supposed to push and it was just a very beautiful happy experience
Micah I had no idea what to do I didn't know how to push I didn't feel anything I just
it was like my body was like just completely turned off I didn't know what was happening
they had to tell me that it was time to push I didn't feel it but with Riley I was able to have
the experience that I should have had the first time right you know I was home eating hot wings
and ice cream like a normal person and it was just a great experience well I mean you literally
went through like a woman's worst nightmare yeah having your brand new baby ripped from your hands
like that is literally the worst nightmare of all women I imagine it was horrendous like I
I really don't have words to describe how traumatic it was but I am diagnosed PTSD now so I can put
that you know crown on it was it was eye opening to get a diagnosis actually because I didn't really
know what happened I didn't know what was wrong with me I didn't know why I couldn't remember
things and why I was in a bed for two weeks and I had no idea what was going on you know I didn't
I didn't really understand it now I get it and when you've experienced trauma surrounding pregnancy
I think it just changes how you view everything you know so I never want another woman to go
through trauma in a pregnancy ever again like I don't I don't want anyone to have that experience
I never want to go through it again it was really hard yeah good lord yeah you know the whole uh
the whole argument of all drugs being legal I think that would be uh that would be a better thing
for this country I wouldn't say legal I would say decriminalized you know because people hear like
oh make drugs all legal and they think they're gonna there's gonna be like a cocaine store
downstream I think that would be good yeah what's wrong with a cocaine store I mean do you bro I'm
not telling you I mean as long as a doctor gives it to you and you know it's like safe you know what
I mean the problem with cocaine is it's cut with shit that kills you right I mean that's what's a
lot of other problems that's the main that's the main problem people die because it gets cut with
shelly fentanyl right now I mean the fentanyl epidemic is crazy as fuck and that's what happens
when the war on drugs made it so strict to get pills and have access to pills so they changed
everything and now it's so easy to get fentanyl and fake press pills so like the war on drugs is not
is not helping anyone the war on drugs is never gonna fucking end and it's the war on the people
so I think we should you know decriminalize drugs right and drug addicts don't deserve prison which
is fucking traumatizing right it doesn't help anybody no and you can get drugs in prison
so we're we're not helping the situation maybe drug dealers prison drug addicts treatment you
know I think that would be a really good place to start even though there's a lot of overlap so
there's gonna be problems with that as well so a lot of you know drug dealers drug dealers are
really addicts trying to pay for their supply and we can differentiate between that but there's
gonna be a lot of overlap so I think the first thing that we should do is decriminalize drugs
or at the very least stop putting addicts in prison yeah I mean I don't know if there if you
could say one positive thing about prison like the one thing I would say is that most people that
come out of it at least that I've met have like a profoundly different view on life and they've
it's it's benefited them it where they well when you have to sit in one room for that long
period of time or one place for that long period of time you have to do so much self reflection
you know what I mean like you learn so much about yourself you just by you know the small
group of people that you're surrounded with you're to sit there and you have to think you do whatever
you do you write letters it does there's some sort of I think personal growth that's goes along with
it sometimes sometimes not all the time no of course not of course not prison you know makes a
lot of people angry they're fucking mad at the system and a lot of inmates are you know treated
like animals across this country not that animals should be treated that way bad analogy um prison
is a really fucked up place where inmates are traumatized and abused and PTSD rates of inmates
mirror that of war like combat war veterans that's not okay you know to have a recidivism rate of
upwards of 70 percent in the first three years that's fucked up you know to ostracize felons
from getting work apartments and we're further disconnecting them from society which further
fuels recidivism rates addiction suicide you know so there's so many problems with prison
I'm grateful that you've met a lot of people that are doing really well myself included
but we have so many problems within our prison system that needs to change I'm not sitting here
because prison helped me in any way I'm sitting here in spite of everything that I've I've gone
through have you been in contact with any of the people that were involved like in your past life
ever since like you started doing the whole like YouTube thing and yeah yeah I've interviewed
former runners of mine a friend of mine I used to sell to she's sober and doing well and she has a
YouTube channel so I do talk to people from my past life you know sometimes sometimes I you know
along the way I've tried to help my ex find recovery he's struggling and that's a really
unfortunate thing to get out of it and see people struggle but yeah I talked to some of them or some
people that I serve time with I'll write letters you and stuff yeah there was one time and it was
so funny I had like five notebooks across my kitchen counter at one point and I'd just be
writing inmates right like a couple of sentences here and I'd walk through like throughout the day
of my life with two kids and whatever I'd write a couple of sentences and at the end of the day
when the letters were down I'd mail them out I'm like five we have five fucking inmates right now
and you know my friends from back home they get locked up and they struggle with addiction and
I am the least judgmental about it and the most supportive that I could possibly be
because that could still be me they don't make it easy for you once you get out to they don't make
it easy for you to like fit back into society and try to like build a better life or build a
normal life or because everything it's impossible to get a job it's possible to rent an apartment
it's really hard it's really hard to get a job and even if you do get a job you're not going to
get a career with benefits I mean with like dental and vision or it's just not going to be a lot of
opportunity for like long-term growth so that's why you know when we first sat down I said it
needs to be celebrated when we see people come out and be entrepreneurs and and start youtube channels
it's it's tough not just because we can't get jobs but just the stigma you know I'm incredibly
blessed and I I work for myself and I answer to no one and I'm so grateful but that is because
my subscribers have been so supportive throughout the way throughout the whole journey if no one
was watching my channel then all the other stuff that I do wouldn't have happened I work with a
treatment center I'm a board member on a non-profit and I'm doing a lot of stuff but it started
because the ride or die crew my subscribers they support me and they watch my videos so I'm very
very blessed but you know I I think I think if you go to the short shelf on youtube on any of
my videos or go to my tiktok and you read the comments that is not the ride or die crew and
you'll see like short shelf short shelf on youtube it's like tiktoks but on youtube oh the shorts
oh yeah yeah youtube has the tiktok okay I got you yeah yeah so if you go to those videos that get
pushed out really heavily you're gonna see a fucking laundry list of people that are like just
don't break the law shouldn't have broken the law don't go to jail and it's just over and over again
convict no one gives a fuck criminal and it's just hostile and really violent and I think that's a
really good testament to how people view you after you've left prison you know what I mean
not everyone but it's it's like 50-50 some people are like oh damn dude you've been through a lot
of stuff like good job getting your shit together or you're trying to keep going some it's like half
right the other half is like on the internet keyboard warriors fuck you convict we don't give a
shit and they're aggressive about it which is super funny I love the youtube commenters do so
well they they hate me they want me dead but I think they're congratulations no like that means
that you're doing it but youtube is like a rare thing because it's like it's the only I think
it's the only social media platform that pays you to make shit right besides well does tiktok
pay now tiktok pays okay so tiktok and youtube what else instagram pays what instagram is monetized
so I can take my my tiktoks and make them instagram reels and they pay me and then I can
also get paid on youtube with my shorts you get paid directly on instagram we should talk
after the after the episode I'll help you out oh my god that's crazy I had no idea yeah they
they're changing so they they recently monetized just a few months ago so it's okay you don't know
and what and so and the instagram so youtube is trying to compete with tiktok or making these
like short videos or whatever yeah all my subscribers fucking hate them really stand them
they're like why are these shorts happening but it allows me to be seen on a wider audience
and a lot of my shorts have surpassed my best performing youtube video by millions of views
really yeah it's insane because they push them someone was just telling me about this yesterday
somebody was just telling me about about the youtube shorts and uh basically it's like youtube
trying to compete with tiktok but then I was thinking about it I'm like what the like youtube
subscriber people who go on youtube and they subscribe to a channel they're usually they
want to sit there and if especially if it's like someone they know like you like it's a
personality who they're familiar with like they are used to 10 minute videos or 20 minute videos
of you talking about whatever and if they start seeing these 30 second videos pop up every day
like isn't going to piss them off or annoy them a thousand percent yeah they're so they're so
done with it um but it it's helped my channel grow so because of the short short shelf it's
weird that we're talking about this now because I love and hate them I also hate shorts um but I've
grown like a hundred thousand subscribers just by uploading shorts wow really that's big that's
so wild it's crazy does uh Larry do those two I think he does Larry's a little tiktok yeah lover
he's always on tiktok making adorable cute little tiktoks I'm in tiktok jail right now which is
what I know I they always put me in jail I'm used to it I've done hard time um so I can do jail you
don't want to be in it's the most um but yeah I meet Larry tomorrow and I have all these tiktoks
planned and I can't even post them until like Monday because I'm in jail what does that mean
you're in jail tiktok jail so they violate you for saying shit like ew because they're like
ridiculous yeah ew ew I said ew on someone's video and I got put in jail for like a comment
like a comment mm-hmm it's a fucked up world over there and they suspended you I mean so I like live
in tiktok jail it's either my content or like a comment that I say to somebody um which if it's
my content fair I get it like I'm prison addiction mental health and I swear like okay but a comment
like come on it's they're too sensitive if it's a video like of my story though I a thousand percent
understand why they wouldn't want like young people seeing that you know but why would tiktok
allow it and youtube not or instagram and instagram and youtube allow this shit but tiktok is so
different I don't know I there was a tiktok um like whistleblower that said if tiktok hates you
like people at tiktok they'll constantly flag you so someone at tiktok I've pissed off like they
don't like me and like I'm kind of living for it it's fine um but you know it is what it is and
do you have any issues on your like the kind of content that you post uh like true crime prison
stories stuff like that on your youtube channel do you ever get any kind of issues like youtube
censor in your content all the time really so they'll demonetize a video but that doesn't mean
I'm not gonna post it right you know so that's youtube will be like we're not gonna pay you for
this but I knew going in like from the very beginning that a lot of stuff that I talk about
goes against their guidelines and I'm completely okay with it so I'll film a video about my addiction
knowing full well that it won't be monetized because it's important I'm talking about addiction
they'll they'll demonetize you oh yeah wow yep so you know if you have like heroin or
meth in the title they get a little freaked out mm-hmm they don't mess with you I noticed uh on
one year video yeah they fucked with me hard I noticed on one of your videos uh you uh you
should on the word prison you like put an asterisk on one of the letters of the word prison so you
can't even post something with the word prison on it I never used to be able to they don't care now
so I used to do that to try to like get away with it I know a lot of people who keep say they get
uh shadow banned on youtube to where like they'll post stuff and people can actually find it in the
search especially like one guy I know who has like does like a lot of true crime stuff he says that
and you can like type in the name of the video and you can't actually find it have you dealt with
that shit I mean right now my views on youtube are really low yeah um and it just comes in waves
you know so sometimes youtube won't even recommend my videos to my own subscribers which is so fucked
but it's just youtube is hard it's a hard world instagram is uh I sent it to you him yesterday
about instagram I heard is going back to the chronological feed to where they don't just post
they don't just show you whatever the algorithm thinks you need to see you know how I don't
know if you remember when instagram first came out no but uh when it first came out they would just
show you like what all your people you follow it would show you what they posted in that order
like when they posted it now what you did they just show you whatever they think you're gonna like or
share so this is gonna sound weird algorithm they're getting they're going backwards with the algorithm
I mean I like old school stuff I I know I'm on social media it's like my job but I'm not like
on social media yeah like I don't watch a lot of youtube I don't watch a lot of tiktok I don't
scroll on instagram really I try not to and I don't have my phone on weekends if I'm at home
like I just it's a lot I try to detach as as best as I can well you're busy and you have two you have
two children you're taking care of so that makes sense the phone is violent also like I could just
be minding my own business and I'll get a death threat like randomly I'll just see it I have all
notifications turned off who the fuck would give you a death threat just random people
or they're like fix your teeth and I'm like I know so I'll just be sitting there eating dinner or
something and I even though I have all notifications turned off youtube is like fuck you we want you
to see this one not a nice comment like bitch go die she's crazed you hurt you that's hilarious
that's hilarious yeah no they um the shit like the out the whole algorithm thing how they they
change the algorithm every seems like every single week and people there's people out there who
like make content and they just constantly try to chase the algorithm you know I mean they kind of
they constantly are trying to like find what's gonna like fit what's gonna like hit right the right
clickbait the right thumbnail blah blah blah all that stuff so many people on youtube are so obsessed
with that stuff you know like I've I've been there just studying the data and analytics and what's
performing well and what's not and like I I can get caught up in it too because I get like hyper
focused on shit you know like I have ADHD and I'm like oh I must understand must find algorithm so
like I get it but at the end of the day you have no idea I had a video blow up it was how to make
prison pizza and the the whole thing was like oh fuck I don't have a video for tomorrow like I
usually post tomorrow I should probably whip something up the day before I rummaged through my
pantry for all these fucking snacks to make prison pizza and like my sleeve wasn't finished so that's
super embarrassing I didn't know it was gonna blow up and BuzzFeed picked it up oh shit oh
grand 26 million views on BuzzFeed why and then a bunch of other pages popped off with it because
they stole it right from BuzzFeed which stole it from me I made zero dollars I did however get a
lot of people telling me not to break the law so that was worth it people telling you not to break
the law yeah I shouldn't have broken the law oh wow stop glorifying prison skank so it was fun
really fun to go viral on Facebook how long ago was that this but I didn't know BuzzFeed was
still a thing like a year ago I think prison pizza popped off and got crazy so how do you make
prison pizza so you need to watch the video don't skip the ads thanks uh saltine crackers
and pizza sauce and cheese pepperoni sausage pickles it sounds weird you're gonna find all
this shit in prison yeah really sausage and pickles oh my god yes wow yeah some people
put ramen noodles on their prison pizza don't trust those people they're not to be trusted yeah
that sounds like too many carbs yeah you can just buy it all that stuff on commissary really there's
a whole like there's like cookbooks about this about prison food oh yeah I know that but I didn't
know you could get like like pickles and sausage and all these amazing toppings in prison yes you
can really it's not the gourmet pickles but you get some pickles they're not that they're not the
wickles pickles yeah oh my god that's funny as shit um well cool thank you for uh for doing this
and uh sharing your story it was it was uh very moving and and uh insane just insane I've never
I've never heard like a more terrifying prison story than the one you just told me yeah and I've
heard a lot of fucked up shit babies in prison it's really hard but thank you for having me
after I ditched you like twice now you did I think twice maybe twice wow that's fucked up I know my
life is insane that's okay well I forgive you thank you so much and thank you for having me absolutely
tell our listeners and uh and viewers where they can find all of your amazing content yep it's just
my name it's just jessica kent on youtube my vlog channel where you can see my family it's jessica
kent blogs my podcast on spotify which is not consistent and not a complete shit show it's
just jessica kent on spotify sweet awesome well thanks again jessica thank you goodbye world
