First and foremost, Danny, the Danny podcast. Concrete. Since the last time I saw you, you
kind of, we kind of had some very viral moments, bro. I didn't even realize how big this last
episode we did was going to be until my phone starts shaking like an earthquake and everyone's
like, I see you here. I see you there. This person posed. Like it went, bro, like easily
over a billion views on some of the content of the last discussion we had. And I kind
of wanted to follow up, bro, go a little deeper. And I appreciate you bringing me back out
here. Shout out to Julian Dory. You guys were like five blocks away from my house in the
New York City area. And you guys didn't call me. I missed the party last night with every
A-list celebrity in the world, Danny, after party for the awards in New York City to be
here today, Danny. So we got to make this episode very, very educational, very important.
And there's a lot of information we're going to cover in this. First, we're going to get
into the clip of our last conversation that went viral and how silly it is that people
are actually arguing on that content and to refresh people's memories, the video clip
that went viral was about how little people know about religion, how little they know
about their own religion, yet they want to judge others when they actually have more
in common than they don't. The clip wasn't about me propagating whether Islam is the
true religion or Christianity is the true religion. I believe that's someone's personal
choice. None of us have the right to judge each other except the creator, which all those
religions say, only God's the judge. But a lot of people took that content that, you
know, came off our last conversation and use it as like a debating topic. We broke the
Internet because we showed people that Jesus Christ spoke Aramaic and the core word in
the Aramaic language for God is ilah or Elohim, which is also the same word as Allah, meaning
you guys shouldn't be hating each other or killing each other over Jesus' name or Allah.
They're all cousins. They're all family. They have much more in common. Muslims and Christians
both believe in Jesus Christ, both believe that there's going to be an antichrist who
comes towards the end of time claiming to be his God and the world will be in chaos, right?
That's half the world that believes in that. Yet all three religions follow ten commandments,
ten commandments say do not kill, right? And is anyone really following it? So I don't
blame the doctrine ever because I know human beings are flawed. We make mistakes. We add
to religion what we have no right to add. So I want to start this conversation by stating,
I start this in God's name, the most merciful, the magnificent. I also want to tell everyone
in the audience, I am not perfect. I can make mistakes. You should not take everything I
say 100%. You should go and double check what I'm saying. Check the people I'm talking about
in today's episode because where you get your information, most people just absorb information,
never questioning where it came from or what agency or what company is putting this message
out and who are they backed by? Like you need to know the narration. You need to know the
chain. Where am I getting this information from? You know, when we go to court, we can't
just enter evidence into court. We have to mention I got this from John Smith. There's
a million John Smiths with John Smith, John Smith that lives on 2273 Main Street. Here's
his license. Like you can't just show up to court without being verified. So what I'm
asking you to do is before we get into the subject and they're very heavy today, we're
going to talk about we're the aliens. There are no aliens the way they want you to believe,
the way the media wants you to believe. We're going to get into is there a God, is there
not a God? How can you come to that conclusion? I'll dig deep into the occult and why things
are the way they are in this world and most people have no idea what I'm talking about.
And then we're going to get into a phenomenon known as the evil eye, which is why I believe
many people that are public, your life's in danger, my life's in danger, anyone that
lives a public life is why so many celebrities pass away, why suicide is at all time high
and the impact of social media. I call these phones, these devices, weapons of mass envy
and envy is why human beings are on this earth. And we'll get into that also.
Hey guys, I want to ask you a quick favor. Over the last few months, almost 70% of the
viewers of this podcast are not subscribed to the channel. The most important common denominator
that allows me to keep creating these podcasts every single week is you hitting that subscribe
button below the videos. I want to thank every single one of you who watches and supports
these podcasts. I would not be able to do it without you. Please hit that subscribe button
if you enjoy it. Now back to the show. So there's a lot to cover. It's a very important episode
and I hope people take the good out of this and not look at it as a way to debate who's
right or who's wrong. I will draw upon my knowledge of the Abrahamic faiths for where
I'm sourcing this information. Scholars like Hamza Yusuf, Jordan Peterson, all these amazing
people that are out there speaking very positive things. And I have role models that are of
every religion, every creed. You know, I love the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. He wasn't
a Christian, he wasn't a Muslim, he was a Hindu. So, you know, these are people I've
always looked up to and kind of where I've gotten a lot of my philosophy and my beliefs
from. So, to not give bias, to try to be as fair as possible.
What sort of religion did your parents follow and where you kind of brought up?
So, my family's from what's called the Republic of Kosovo. We call it ethnic Albania. And
we spoke a little bit about that in the last episode. So, Albanians are a mixture of Muslim,
Christian, Orthodox, Christian, Jewish. Then there's even something known as the Bektashi.
There's a lot of little different smaller religions. So, my father's side was like from a
very small sect of the Shia Muslims, of which I did not believe in at all.
Why?
I didn't know much about religion. And it's nothing against the Shias. It just,
it was a really deviated version of that. And I felt more like a lot of those doctrines and that
version of Islam that my family, it came from, wasn't really the mainstream. Not even for Shia.
It was like a sect of a sect of a sect. Kind of like, I guess like Jehovah Witness,
you know, compared to mainstream Christianity, Catholicism, which is the biggest, and then
Greek Orthodoxy. So, I didn't know much about religion when I was younger. And actually what
led me on my journey to study religion was being born to what you would call quote-unquote
Muslim family. That was really secular. I wasn't taught anything about religion in my house. I
don't come from a religious family at all. The version of Islam that my family, my father's side
followed was not the mainstream. Very like, basically, you know, like I said, like an
interpretation of the mainstream, but a lot of traditions added that not even regular Shia would
follow, you know, because in Islam, you have, you know, Sunni and Shiite, which I think is a trap.
The Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, never used the word Sunni or Shiite. So,
anytime a Muslim puts a classification on themselves, they're breaking from the main body.
And the Prophet told the Muslims, he warned them, towards the end of time, you will separate
like the branches of a tree. And only one of you will be guided. Only one group of these divisions,
just like Christianity became Christian, then Orthodox, then Jehovah's Witness, and all these
different, you know, Protestant and Libertarian. The same thing happened in Judaism. You have
Orthodoxy, right, and all these different groups. The same thing he said would happen to you
towards the end of time. So, I was not brought up in a religious household, but the tradition
of what my family practices was like a deviated version of Shia Islam. I do not consider myself
a Shia. I guess you could use the word Sunni. I am a Muslim. I try to follow the teachings of
the Prophet Muhammad. I was not taught this religion. I learned it on my own through going to
different places to study. But what led me on my spiritual journey was as a child,
you know, you grew up in America, bro, and Christmas comes around. Let me tell you how it
feels to be a Muslim or a Hindu during Christmas time. And I feel like everyone celebrates it
anyway, you know, like regardless of their faith. I put the cookies out, man, and I'm waiting for
Santa, and I would wake up in the morning, the cookies are gone, and there's no president,
and I'm like, man, my life sucks. So, like, as a kid, like, we're singing all the songs,
you know, we're in school doing chorus, everyone's excited and shit. And I'm like, man,
I'm like, yeah, nothing. You know, and as a kid, like, yeah, I guess Santa hates me.
But my family kind of had like, they would celebrate New Year, like they would celebrate,
you know, Christmas. But one day, I had some friends in school that were like of Arab descent,
and they were like, you know, Jesus is in the Quran, right? And I had never read the Quran,
never read the Bible. I was only in like fifth grade. I was like, Jesus, we believe in Jesus,
man. They're like, yeah, I was like, dude, that means we can do Christmas, man. You know, I'm
getting all excited. I'm like, shit, we're mussels and we believe, I'm like, we really believe in
him. They're like, yeah, man, we love him. He's like one of the most important people in the religion.
He's mentioned more than any other prophet in that book, by the way. Jesus Christ is the most
mentioned figure in the Holy Quran, by the way. I don't know if Christians know that.
The most mentioned, there's a whole chapter called Mary, peace be upon her. She's the most
important woman in Islam, literally her and the prophet's wife, Aisha, who gave us so much of
his life and his narration. I probably want to talk about that too. People like to attack the
character of the prophet Muhammad based on his marriage. They say he was a pedophile. He married
a six year old and a nine year old. This is the number one way that people want to attack that
religion, try to attack it based on his marriage and try to understand a culture from 2000 years
ago. There is no exact age. This is the question I will flip to people that want to use that type
of personal attack to try to dishonor or disclaim the work of the prophet Muhammad.
First of all, in the state of New York, the age of marriage was 13 years old,
bro. They just changed it a few years ago. If you don't believe me, look it up. The legal age
you could get married in the state of New York was 13 years old. Was that normal? Now, I don't
have a daughter, but if I had a daughter and somebody tried to marry her at the age of 13,
they'd be hanging from a tree, bro. Or they'd find him in the Hudson River.
Because that's just crazy, right? Latino culture, they have something called what?
Quinceanera. Yes or no? Yes, Quinceanera. Most people don't even understand. What does that mean?
Well, why do they dress up their daughters at the age of 15, like basically like their
brides, and then they throw like a party for their birthday? Because in that time period,
hundreds of years ago, thousands of years ago, you were telling the community,
my daughter is of age of marriage. That's what that's from. Sweet 16. Would you let your daughter,
what person in America will let their daughter get married at 16? You celebrated through 16 because
you were telling the world, my daughter's of age, you can start to court her. It doesn't mean you
can take my daughter and bang her. It means she's of age with morals, morality. You have the right
now, she's old enough to date, to seriously consider marriage is where that comes from.
So I'll ask you, is it normal for a girl to get married at 15? Definitely not. But at one time,
it was. Because the world operated, especially ancient cultures, when a woman had her menstrual
cycle, she was now of age to be married. The minute they had their menstrual cycle and ancient,
so people want to analyze an ancient culture 1600 years ago with today's perspective when
meanwhile in their own backyard, these are the laws. And you want to attack a guy that lived
2000 years ago almost, who all his enemies never once said, this girl you're marrying is too young.
No, because they gave, they would arrange, there's people in Albania that were arranged
marriage before they were even born. That doesn't mean they consummated the marriage.
I know people whose grandparents were engaged in the belly because it was a clan structure.
It was like, okay, if I have a daughter and you have a son, like let's say like two different
clans, but they're friends. Yeah, it's like Game of Thrones. Exactly. Your daughter's pregnant.
Your daughter's pregnant. If one has a boy and a girl, you guys want to, yeah, and they didn't
ask you. It was all arranged. So just because he had an arranged marriage before she may have been
the age of consummation does not mean that that was normal or irregular. That was very normal,
not only in the Arab world, but throughout history. And again, go look at the marriage laws in America.
They just changed them. Is it normal to get married at the age of 13? No,
though. Why was that the law in New York City? And that's only 100 years ago. You want to talk
about 1400 years ago. People's lifespans were shorter. And they did things very differently.
So that is the argument I will give to anyone that wants to attack his character based on that.
And the people that, you got to remember the Arabs of that continent wanted him dead. His own
family wanted him dead. They offered him to be the king of all the Arabs, if he would just accept
their pagan way of life. All these gods of Mecca, if you accept it, we will make you the king of
the Arabs. He said, not if you gave me the moon and the sun and everything in it. There's only one
God. Muslims do not believe that Islam is a new religion. The word, the concept might be new,
but the word Islam means to submit, to submit your will to God, to who the same God that we
broke the internet with, brother. It's the same word in all three languages. And I'll debate
anyone any time of the week you saw with your own eyes. He spoke Armaic Google, Armaic word for God.
Why are you using Google to prove it? Well, prove me wrong. Go to the Armaic lexicon,
go to the Armaic dictionary, type in God, it pops up there. It's not some trick or some manipulation,
but it's to show you how little you know about your own faith and you want to judge others.
And that's the biggest problem we have in society today around the world. People that know nothing
about nothing, making statements, and that is one of the dangers of social media, who are not
qualified to talk about these things. And maybe I'm more qualified than most, but I still say I
can make mistakes. I could be wrong. Please research what I'm saying, because I'm responsible
on a spiritual level for the information I give. In Islam, if I preach something to you,
and it's not accurate, and you base your belief on that or not, I'm responsible. I may have been
the one that led you astray because I gave you wrong information. I will be held accountable
when I face God for the information I'm discussing right here, right now. So that's why I start with
an apology. Please double check everything I'm saying. I could be wrong. It is your obligation
as a human being to always question what you are taught, where it came from, the narration,
which is very important, the chain of where this information came from, and where it could have or
could not have been deviated. It's very important to question where you gain information, not just
in theology, but look at the world we're living in. The news outlets, who's financing them?
What is their agendas? What other associations do they put money towards? Maybe you can see where
the bias comes from, and this is the biggest problem we're facing as Americans right now.
What's important for people is not to believe what I believe, and I'm not here to push it on you.
Here's what I want to ask people before we get into the heavier subjects of demonic
attacks. I believe we are under full-blown demonic attack. Under the guise of aliens are coming,
and we're going to get to that at first, but I want to start at the beginning, Danny, because
it's important. I'm sorry for the saliva that shoots out once in a while. It's not easy talking
for hours. So for me, I ask people this, and this is where I start my whole basis from. So,
you know, like I was telling you earlier, it was the finding out that Muslims believed in Jesus
that blew my mind away, and that's how I started my spiritual journey. That's how I started studying
religion, reading the Bible, reading the Torah, reading the Quran, going to lectures, studying
people like Hamza Yusuf, who by the way is amazing. People should really check out this guy's work,
especially when he talks about the occult and the New World Order and all this other stuff.
Amazing scholar, speaks multiple languages, founded a place called the Zaytuna Institute
out in, if I'm not mistaken, Burbank, California, and just a phenomenal speaker. He was involved
in the burial of Muhammad Ali, by the way. He was born Greek Orthodox. Where's he from?
He's from California. His parents were professors. His name before he converted to Islam was David
Hansen. Oh, really? And he had a near-death experience, if I'm not mistaken, when he was younger.
And as he laid in the hospital bed, he almost died in a car accident, I believe. And he realized,
man, I almost, I almost went, like this life really is like a joke. Like I can be here today
and gone tomorrow. Like what's next? What's next? And he went on the spiritual journey,
ended up leaving America going. He studied every religion and he left like Islam.
He didn't even think about Islam. It was like the last thing he studied,
started reading the Quran. He fell in love with it, ended up going to like, if I'm not
mistaken, Mauritania and learning Islam from the Bedouins and became one of the greatest scholars,
I think we have not only in our faith, but in the world. And he's such a brilliant speaker.
I mean, he's done things with Jordan Peterson, I believe.
Didn't Andrew Tate recently convert his religion?
That's what he's saying, yeah. Yeah.
To Islam?
That's what he's saying, yeah. I mean, I can't confer, but he's saying, yeah, I'm a Muslim. So
it's very interesting. I guess everyone that goes to jail these days, when we go to jail, brother,
it's like they call it the jail religion. Like you switch your religion to protection,
because the Muslims in jail are more like, I'm not saying that's why he did it,
but like it seems like when people go to jail, you know?
Yeah. Well, I don't think he had to deal with like, what normal people would have to deal with
when they go to jail. He didn't probably have to pick a side or a team.
Like, you know. No, he was isolated. Like him and his brother.
It's funny how when you go to prison, it's so compartmentalized into like different
racial factions. Like you're really going to be with the Mexicans,
you're going to be with the skinheads, or you're going to be with the black guys.
And you're going to be someone's bitch.
Or you're going to be someone's bitch, right? If you want to run solo, yeah, you're going to be
someone's bitch. You're going to be Andy Dufresne before he got the protection of the warden,
and raw sauce tank redemption, bro.
I was talking to me and Julian, shout out to Julian Dory.
We were talking about this the other day. When we were in New York, walking around,
seeing all the different types of people that are in fucking New York.
Every time.
And it's like, when you think about what it means to be like, because New York is just like
this melting pot of every different culture, everything, right? But when you think about
what it is to be an American, it's hard to really define it. But when you think about what it is to
be an Albanian, that's not hard to define that. When you think about what it is to be Israeli,
definitely not hard to define that. We were talking about, it's really these
cultures or these people that had to deal with existential threats that really define them,
like these other countries, like Israel or Albania. But America's never really had a real
existential threat. So it's like, what the fuck is it anymore to be an American? It was really
interesting to think about. We're in a very interesting crossroad. And things are shifting
dramatically. And really, I hope we're here. I hope we're here in a couple years the way we're
going. I've spoken about this on many shows. I mean, we have empire sickness. I think we're
seeing what it is after you've peaked and corruption sets in. It's like gangrene. You're not going
to die instantly, but your fingers are going to rot, your arms are going to eventually,
you're dead if you don't take it out. We are at the last stage of what corruption looks like.
And we are in a lot of trouble. And all the symptoms and the signs of tyranny are there,
and people are asleep at the wheel, man. Free speech is the most important thing.
That's why podcasting is so important. What you do is so important. Regardless of people
like it or don't like it or don't agree, social media is where the public discourse is. And
there needs to be a serious debate about protecting free speech on these platforms. I don't care if
they're privately owned, because the effect they have on everything from culture to voting,
so you name it, for it not to be protected where everyone has equal opportunity to speak.
And you can't just turn someone off. I mean, it's a serious problem, man. And it needs to be
addressed fast. I also think as AI expands, we need to start using labels immediately,
especially for music, organic, podcast, organic. People can use these apps now. I could take
your sound, Danny, type into this one app, and I could produce a podcast with your voice, bro.
If I have your image, even make it like even right now, I can do that. So I think we need to
start using a label like organic, human made, immediately get people used to that so we can
protect what we do, the arts, podcasting, all this stuff. Getting back to kind of where I want
to go with all this. What fascinates me in all my studies of life, of pursuing is there a God or
not a God, or is there anything after life? What boggles my mind is that most people follow their
religion like a tradition and not because they truly believe it. I was Catholic, therefore my,
you know, my son will be Catholic, and his son will be Catholic. And a lot of people don't even
know anything about their religions. I'm Muslim because my dad was Muslim and his dad was Muslim.
So most people just accept these traditions, they get together for whatever holiday they celebrate
in their religion, whether it's Christmas for Christians or Easter or Eid for Muslims or
you know, Rosh Hashanah for Jews. So like, and they just follow, okay, today we get together,
we do a little feast or we do Ramadan. And they just, you know, a lot of people just follow these
things blindly. This is what my family was, this is what I will be. What I want to ask people is this,
this is the way I looked at it. Why is it that human beings prepare for everything they do? If
they want, you know, human beings that have some intellect, we prepare, we didn't just show up today
in the studio and do a podcast. First, I had to contact you, set up a date, book the flight,
book the hotel, rent a car, drive, like everything had to go in order for me to be here today. I
had to plan for it. I couldn't just come because most human beings, especially ones that want to
succeed, we have to prepare for things in life. I don't just become a doctor overnight. I have to
go to school, then college, medical school, residency, then I can become a doctor. Because
order has to come from order, but we'll get to that in a second. Where I'm going with all this is,
there's people that contribute to a 401k that are listening to this show. There's people that
own their own companies or work in a job or in school or in college and they're preparing for
something in this life. There's someone listening to your show right now that's in college to become
a dentist or whatever the case may be, a lawyer or a financial professional in the banking world
and they're in college right now or they're in grad school right now and they're preparing
for something that they want to do in this life. There's people that contribute to a 401k in their
20s. They're taking money that they can use today in their life and putting it aside so that they
hope by the time they get to the age of 60 and they reach the age of retirement that they're
prepared for retirement. They don't want to be not ready to survive in retirement without enough
money. How many people die, Danny? Never cash in their 401k out. Millions of people never even
reach the age of retirement. They put money away in a 401k in an IRA. They prepared for a day that
they weren't even guaranteed they would ever see. But they can give it to their kids? I understand
that. But in essence, what I'm going with this, Danny, is that they're preparing for a day they
may never see, which is retirement. I started my 20s. I'm 40. There's no guarantee I'm going to reach 60.
My question is, are you not guaranteed to die? So my question to people is, if we prepare for
everything in this life, how do we not prepare for death? People go, what do you mean by that?
Well, maybe there's nothing after death, Danny. But the overwhelming majority of this world,
regardless of denomination, Hindu, Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Buddhist,
ancient civilizations, Mayans, the ancient Egyptians all believed in an afterlife. The overwhelming
majority of this world throughout time, throughout history, has believed that there's an afterlife.
They also believe if you don't believe what they believe, there's a price to pay. If I am not a
Christian and I don't accept Jesus Christ as my personal savior and Lord, I'm screwed based on
Christian doctrine. I'm either going to purgatory or hell. Muslims believe if you associate anything
with God, you go to hell because only God is God, right? So it's like all the religions say,
if you don't follow what they believe, there's an afterlife, that afterlife is forever,
you're going to pay a heavy price. So my first question to the entire audience is,
forget denomination right now. How do you leave something like that to chance? If there's even
a small chance that there really is an afterlife and there is a torment waiting for us, you prepare
for a life that you're not guaranteed to see tomorrow. You are guaranteed to die yet you won't
investigate. You won't go and look. The problem is most people follow their religion like a
tradition and when that tradition fails them, they assume all religion is garbage. There's
nothing that's out there that works. They had a bad, something horrible happen to them in their
faith, maybe a bad priest or a bad Imam or something that happened and now they want to group all
religion into one. They also want to make the argument, well, where's God when you have wars like
you know Yemen, Syria, like where's God, the Holocaust and that's a classic trap that people
fall into. And I would flip the question just like Hamza Yusuf does. Not where's God, where's
humanity? Where are you? You got this gift, you gave me this liquid death, I'm holding the can,
I can pick it up, I can drink it, I can throw it at you, you'll probably get up and knock me out
because you're in better shape than I am. That's called free will brother. What are people doing
with their free will? You want to leave it to chance? I promise you there's an afterlife. Me,
I don't know this, I don't believe there's a God. I know there's a God. I've seen too much
evidence to support that there is a God. My only argument to people is have you really,
really looked? Have you really, really studied? Are you trying to judge a religion based on the
actions of human beings, which are flawed, which can do whatever they want? I could say I'm a
Christian all day or a Muslim all day but if I'm killing people, I promise you I'm not a Christian
or a Muslim. That's not what the doctrine teaches if you take innocent life. Then you have a guy
that gets up there and kills a million people and says he's a Muslim or a Christian or no. So
people look at what people do and then they want to judge the doctrine. To me, these doctrines
are amazing. All of them teach you how to be a good human being, every single one of them.
The only core differences between Christianity, Islam and Judaism is who was Jesus Christ.
Other than that, they all teach you how to be more compassionate to man, man, woman, human,
to be loving, to care about your environment, to be God conscious and aware that God sees
everything you do, that you are being judged for what you do, that you will face the Creator one day.
That's what these were all. Even the religions that are not Abrahamic say that they're, you know,
what does Hinduism say? You're bad. You don't elevate to nirvana. You downgrade. You might be a
a raccoon the next life or a rat or a cockroach. You understand? Because you don't, if you're good,
you elevate to almost the status of becoming a God, right? You become, you know, you reach nirvana.
The highest levels, I'm sorry. I'm talking about Buddhism there. I'm talking about in the Hindu
faith when you evolve, you know, they believe in reincarnation. So like, if you're not doing good
in this life cycle, you will go down to a lower life cycle. If you're doing what you're supposed
to in this life, you elevate to basically a God status. Okay. So all of them have some type of
consequence for actions that we do in this world, in this dimension. And that's another
similarity that all faiths have, you know? So my argument to people is, if there's even a small
chance that any one of these religions could be true, how do you not study the majority of them?
How do you not go deep? How do you not look to see if there's something that actually after this life?
Because if there is, just like in this world, if the landlord comes and says, hey, the rent's due,
well, I didn't know the rent was due. I'm going to kick you out of the house. If there is an
afterlife, that means you have to put work to find it. Just like in this life, we put work in,
we prepare, we get ready. Your death is coming whether you want to think about it or not. Most
people don't want to think about it. The only time they think about death is when they go to a funeral
and they see someone, sometimes of someone that they cared about, they cry for a couple years,
maybe. I have for years. Eventually, we get back up and we move on with life.
How many people really prepare in the way that I'm saying to stop and take a step,
disconnect from life, sit down somewhere quiet and like, I'm not going to be here forever?
I think it's probably the people like Youssef or the people that get old and people that develop
terminal illnesses that actually have to confront death head on when you have to confront death.
I think those are the people who really, who really study it and look into it and think about
death more than anybody. I think all the other people spend all their waking moments trying to
avoid the thought of death. I think everything that we do is a construct or a coping mechanism
to try to avoid the thoughts of death and the fear of death. Most people don't want to think about
it. If there's one thing I know about my listeners is that they appreciate innovation.
That's why I want to introduce you to GhostBed, makers of some of the most cutting edge mattresses
available. Whether it's their world exclusive massage bed, the proprietary cooling technology,
or the patented materials they use, GhostBed is always finding ways to elevate the sleeping
experience. And as a family owned business with over two decades in the industry,
they have garnered a devoted following. GhostBed offers luxury mattresses without the luxury
price tag and they're known for their incredible sales. If you go to ghostbed.com forward slash
Danny and use the code Danny at checkout, you can get an astonishing 40% off your purchase.
You get a 101 night sleep trial along with free shipping and returns when you purchase
your mattress so you can try in the comfort of your own home. And GhostBed has a dedicated
team of sleep experts on standby to help you find the perfect bed. It's an unbeatable opportunity
to enhance your sleep quality. So don't miss out. Visit ghostbed.com forward slash Danny today to
transform your sleep for the better. It's linked below. Now back to the show. Right.
It's still something like you're saying, I agree with you 100%. I think getting gray hair
is a mercy from God. Do I like the fact I'm turning gray? No, but I think it's like a reminder.
It's like the grains of sand. You look like a fucking assassin with that beard.
Fucking Albanian assassin. I know all Albanians are assassins. The grains of sand through the
hourglass is what gray hair means to me. It's like God remind you, yo, you're getting older.
Your ride on the roller coaster is about to end if you live your natural life.
It's a blessing. It's reminding you, hey, you're getting older. Like, have you looked?
Have you done your homework? You want to just wait to see what happens when you pass away?
So that's my first argument to people. Like, are you seeking knowledge? Do you realize that you
will pass away? Do you realize that if there is a creator and if any of these religions could be
true, there's a price to pay on the other side? Do you really want to leave that the chance? And
again, you might go through this whole journey and say there really is no God. I don't have a
problem with the one that doesn't believe if they've done their homework. Some people, they just,
something bad happens to them. They were born to a horrible family or something horrific happens
and they go, well, there's no God. Why would God let this five-year-old die of cancer? Why does God
allow Yemen to starve to death? Like, there's a lot more to that than just that simple explanation
that this makes no sense. Like, if there was this being, why does Bill Gates have a billion
dollars and people are starving to death? Like, how's that fair? And a lot of times,
it sees people that are evil that have all the money, right? So, people use these arguments to
try to say, well, that's why there's no God. I would argue not where is God, where is humanity?
We have a duty. One of my favorite quotes in the Quran is, do not oppress and do not be oppressed.
That you have a duty to stand up against corruption in any civilization and any culture. You have a
duty as a human being to call out evil and hypocrisy. And when you see injustice, you're
supposed to stand against it. Another quote of the Prophet was, if you see evil, stop it. If you
can't stop it, physically stop it, speak out against it publicly. And if it's too dangerous to do that,
then hate it with everything that's in your heart. Like, you have an obligation to stand against
corruption, evil. That's whether you're a Christian, Muslim or Jew. We have a duty
to stand. And these are the things we have in common. And that's really what that whole clip
was about, Danny. It wasn't about, oh, Muslims are right, Christians are wrong. No, it was like,
yo, we all believe in these people. Which position we put them in as king or just another soldier
in the chain of God? Cool. But look at what we have in common. We both believe in the Virgin
Mary. We both believe in Jesus Christ. We both believe in the nuclear family. We both believe
that there's a God who's going to judge us for our actions. We both believe that only God can
judge us. So who am I to judge you? Or you to judge me? It should be the opposite. And this is
another thought that I take from Hamza Yusuf. I got to give the man credit. That if you truly
believe that what you believe is the truth and that these people are in trouble, then there's
got to be a place of compassion where you actually feel sad for them if you believe that what you
believe is the truth. That they're not on the same path as you. You shouldn't be looking to fight
with them or argue with debate because even debate can be harmful if it's done the wrong way. It
creates animosity. People need to have real conversations respectfully and just know that
there's an overwhelming majority that's the same. They believe in Moses. They believe in Abraham.
They believe in Noah of the Ark. Half the world believes in John the Baptist, Jesus Christ, Muslims
and Christians. If you to kill each other and hate each other, all of your leaders, whether it be
Christ or Muhammad would be ashamed of you. And I want to remind the audience, if it wasn't for
Christians, the first Muslims were given refuge by Christians. This is a story that's never told
to bring unity to people. So the first Muslims were being oppressed in Mecca, where the prophet
was from. He was being attacked by his own clan, by his own family. They wanted, you know, so they
started killing some of the first Muslims. Their own family was doing the stuff to them. So they
sought refuge in ancient Absinia. Ancient Absinia is today, present day, Ethiopia. These are some
of the most ancient Christians, period. And that leader was a righteous leader. So a lot of the
disciples of the prophet, they went there because he told them, go there because there's a righteous
king there and he will give you refuge. When they went to meet with the niggas, that's the word, any
G-U-S, you've seen it. They make fun of that clip with the kid in the spelling bee. I don't know
if you've ever seen that clip. That's the actual word for the ancient king of Absinia. So when they
went to seek refuge there, they came and said, hey, we want these people back. The people that
were trying to kill the first Muslims, they went there like, you know, you need to give us these
people. And they were about to be surrendered back to them. And then they're like, well,
they believe in Jesus. Like we believe, and they told them the whole story, hey, we believe in Jesus
too. And he's like, these people believe in Christ also, even though they didn't call themselves
Christians. And he let them stay in the kingdom and he gave them safety and refuge.
That's a big boost in the beginning of Islam. Without that Christian kingdom,
the Muslims might have been wiped out. When was this? This is in the inception of Islam,
you know, during the time of the Prophet Muhammad. How long ago were you talking?
Six something AD. I don't have the exact date. It was like mid 600s, late 600s.
Okay. Okay. So if it wasn't for that righteous king, a lot of the first Muslims would have been
wiped out. And these are stories that we need to remind our Christian brothers, our Muslim brothers,
Jewish brothers that, hey, we don't have to believe in the same thing exactly.
But right now in the world that we're living in, the evil that is coming for us,
all of us, regardless if we're even from those religions, what is coming for all of humanity,
that is something that should unite us. That is something that we are on the same page.
And we need to remind each other that they'll, of course, these people that are doing what
they're doing, they want us to kill each other. They want us to nitpick on these little things
and go to war so they can justify everything that's happened in the last 50, 60 years.
These are the things I'm trying to remind people. You don't need to believe what I believe.
I will face God on that day. At least I made a choice. At least I investigated.
At least I went deep into my studies and my intention, because I believe God judges based
on intention, was to find the Creator. I chose the path that I chose for myself. It's not
me to choose your path, but at least I did my homework. At least I didn't wake up one day and
say, ah, I'm going to just follow. I didn't follow what my father's family followed. I didn't believe,
I didn't believe in any of it. I said, this doesn't make no sense. And I went on my journey
and I studied theology for a very long time. And again, I would never even use the word scholar
because it's an embarrassment to even use the word when there's people like Hamza Yusuf,
when there's people like Jordan Peterson. I have no right to even use that title
because these guys are brilliant, brilliant. And Jordan Peterson is a Christian. I love him,
bro. I listened to his lectures. I think he's an amazing human being, bro. And that's what we're
trying to inspire in this world that is full of chaos right now. So my first argument is the lack
of knowledge, people doing their homework, asking serious questions. And I ask it again, are you
not going to die? Are you going to leave that to chance? Are you going to wait to just see? You
better do your homework, son, because you don't just show up to a test unprepared and pass. Usually,
you're not going to do too well or not as good as you could have done. So that's my first principle
of today's discussion. Do you know who Sheldon Solomon is? I think I've heard that name. He
calls himself the prophet or something? No, no, no. He lives in New York. He's a professor.
I forget the name of his. You had him on your show? I had him on the show, yeah, about a month ago.
And he wrote this book that was a follow-up based on Ernest Becker's theory, based on the fear of
death and how it guides human beings and everything they do. And I asked him what after he did a ton
of studies, like scientific studies on people when he would remind them of death or like he would,
these weird little experiments, right, where they put them in isolated situations and remind
them of death and then ask them a bunch of questions. Anyways, long story short, this guy
spent his whole entire last 50, 60 years studying this stuff. And when I asked him, I'm like,
what do you think happens when we die? And it was pretty, kind of blew my mind what his answer was.
He said it's, he thinks it's the same thing that happens before we're born. He's like, do you
remember what it was like before you were born? No, we don't. He's like, I think that's exactly
what it's like after you die. I don't think so. I think that energy is never lost. It can only
change form. I believe that we are in this life to find the truth. That's the main purpose for us
to be here. I feel like a lot of us don't really like we're distracted, bro. There's so much
distraction out there that, you know, you live in a place like New York, you cut off from nature,
you don't even see this really see the scars, you know, the stars at night, you know,
there's nothing there to remind you of the one that created all of this. So my next principle is,
you know, and I think I take this from Khalid Yasin, amazing lecture, what is the purpose of life?
Khalid Yasin, amazing lecture that really had a profound impact on me in my life.
And he had made this one argument, like, you know, why I believe there's a creator.
Why I believe there's a creator is two principles. First one, if you lived by yourself, have you
ever lived by yourself? And you woke up in the morning and you left your bed a mess. When you
came home, how would you find your bed? Same way. You'd find it a mess unless you either had a maid
or a nice burglar broken and stole your shit. I was like, let me fix Danny's bed because your
bed will not make itself because order, you can't lose something out of order and expect
to find it in order, right? So, you know, the first principle is that order can only come from order.
We had to combine together as a collective to create a society, to create rules, create laws.
This doesn't just happen overnight. It was with purpose. It was with intention, right? We can't
leave things randomly, just expect everything randomly to happen in our lives. We don't use
that strategy in our own daily lives. If I just, hey, wait around and something randomly might
happen, you know, for me to succeed or whatever the case may be. My second principle is very simple.
If we take 10 numbers, Danny, and we number them one to 10, like lottery balls, one, two, three,
four, five, six, all the way to number 10. If I put them in a box and I blindfold you in a zero
light environment where you cannot see into that box, if you shake that box up randomly,
chaotically, and I tell you, Danny, I need you to pull out number one, number two, number three.
In a row, in order, this is basic statistics for those of you that don't know anything about math,
10 numbers randomly without you looking, what are the odds you'd pull out one, two, three in a row?
Do you do? What's it like, one in 100,000? It's like, no, it's beyond. That's actually,
if I'm not mistaken, one in 26 million. Oh, wow. It's almost impossible. 26 million.
From that, it's 10 times 10. That's 10 to the 10th power. Jesus Christ.
So where am I going with this? I'm with my family one time and I wanted to get at the adults.
So I used the children in a funny way, to have fun and inspire them to believe in God.
So I took a box. I did the experiment. I put the 10 balls in. I got 500 dollars ready because I know
no one's taking my money. And I don't gamble. I don't think gambling's good. Have I played
here and there? Yeah, but am I like a part of my life? No. I go to the family. I shake up the box
and I'm like, kids, we're going to play a game. You guys can't look in. You got to pull out one
to 10 in a row. You pull out one to 10, you get 500 dollars. Now, kids don't know the mathematics.
They think it's easy. They're all fighting each other. I want a chance. I want a chance. Like,
I'm like, all right, you go first, Billy. And they would go in, you know, for three and a half hours,
these kids, all like, I'll say 20 little kids, the adults are watching me. Everyone's like,
what the hell are you doing? For three and a half hours, because they wouldn't give up. They're
like, they see 500 hours, they're going fucking crazy. It's like an Xbox, PlayStation, like they're
all like, you know, no one pulled out the number one first. Forget getting to the one two for the
entire time I was doing this experiment. No one even pulled out the number one first. Forget getting
one to two. So like when I say it's like almost impossible to get to 10, no one even pulled out
the one first for three and a half fucking hours. So everyone gets disappointed. The children get mad.
What was the point of this? You tricked us. You knew we couldn't do it. I said, here's the point.
I said it to them and I will say it to your audience. Open your bag. I'm going to give you not
10 balls. I'm going to give you a million balls in order. And you tell me how if that sun was not
exactly where it is in spectrum to this earth, me and you wouldn't be having this conversation
right now. If it was one inch closer to the earth, an inch could be a million miles in space. There's
nothing closer to this earth would be dead. One inch further away, we'd be dead. It'd be too cold.
The way the earth rotates on its axis, the seasons, the seven layers of the atmosphere,
all in order, brother, the ionosphere, the stratosphere, each with its own purpose. It's like
a canopy that protects us. Right? Gravity. One million living species on this planet, Danny,
each with its own purpose. It's called the eco what? What's it called, Danny? An eco what?
Ecosystem. That's fucking a man. It's an ecosystem. If we wipe out enough bugs, what happens to us?
What happens to us? Forget everything else. If we wipe out the insects, what happens? I have no idea.
We're fucking dead, bro. How? There's no more food, no more cross-pollination.
All the creatures that eat the bugs, they fucking die. It's an ecosystem. It's in order whether you
want to believe in it or not. Now, they want to say it all happened by accident. You wipe out
enough of those creatures. We're dead. It's a system. You're breathing in oxygen and carbon
dioxide. It's called a what? A respiratory what? System. It's in order. Without you even thinking
about it, you're breathing out a gas that would kill you, feeds the trees. They breathe out. It's
a fucking system. It's a system. It's all in order, man. The north and south pole reflect a majority
of the sun, you know, it reflects the sun's light back to space. I mean, I can go on for days and
days about everything that is in order for you to be alive right now. You don't expect your bed
to make itself by accident. How did all of this, this amazing look at us, man, by accident?
I don't think so, brother. You can see the design. You can see that there was purpose.
You can see that this was designed for your existence. And that's why God's the most merciful,
because even though the majority of us don't respect the Creator or even believe in the Creator
anymore, I breathe because of His mercy. That's my second principle. Order can only come from
an order. You explain to me how all these, you can't get 10 balls out of a box in order.
How did all of this come into order for you to exist? You really believe it was an accident?
Really? Really you're that foolish? You don't expect anything by accident in your life.
You don't leave anything to chance in your life. Yet you leave the question of death to chance.
You don't investigate. You don't do your homework. You don't dig deep. You don't go into,
even if you learned nothing, just studying Islam or Christianity, you can understand one-fifth of
the world, learning about the Chinese, their culture. This is where we're failing as so many
people we know nothing about. I can study Chinese history. Maybe I can understand how they think,
why they are. They have more of a hive mentality than we could ever have, because there's a private
mentality. Yeah, like the whole, as long as the country prevails, they have that patriotism deeply
rooted in them from the times of the dynasties, man. But we don't study history. We don't care.
And we also study history, not looking at where we get any information from. Who gave me this
information? Who's the author? Who was he? So this is my argument. I do believe that we were
created. I do believe in an intelligent creator. I do believe it is your duty as a human being,
regardless of our religion. If you're a Muslim, you should study Christianity. If you're a Christian,
you should study Islam. If you're a Jew, you should study and vice versa, because this is where
you can see the commonality, how much we have in common. There is no reason to kill each other.
Any of these incidents that happened throughout history were by leaders that were not following
the doctrine of those fates. An example of that, no offense to the Turks, the Ottoman Empire. They
were a nationalist empire. They were not an Islamic empire, in my opinion. Now they may have done
things that made the Muslims feel cool, but we had no right to invade Christian countries. Period.
But then people say, well, they were a Muslim empire. The crescent moon and star is not a
symbol of Islam. Yet you see it on every mosque. Some Muslims may consider that a desecration. So
where did that come from? The Prophet Muhammad had no symbols. These are the things I tell people,
where do you get your information from? Do you study? Do you do your homework? Do you research?
Who are you to judge another way of life or faith if you know nothing about your own?
And this is where the majority of people are, in my opinion. They know nothing about their faith.
That is why that clip went so viral, Danny. It shocked people. They couldn't believe it.
They type in the Armaic. Again, some people preceded too, but if you didn't even know the
language of Christ, you didn't even know the name of it, how can you even call yourself a Christian?
If you're a Muslim and you can't say a couple words in Arabic, how are you a Muslim?
When the religion came in that language, these are what I'm talking about. And then you have
people that want to talk about the faith, they know nothing about it. They're not qualified.
So I'm kind of done with that segment there. So that's where I take a lot of my stance from.
There's a lot of overlap, man, especially towards the end of time.
Christianity and Islam have a lot in common, man. Book of Revelation,
anti-Christ, a being that will come down to deceive the whole world that he is God,
and that God is not God, to lead humanity astray. There's a lot of talk of aliens, Danny.
And I got a newsflash for everyone. I'm going to talk about the aliens right now.
Oh no, we're going to talk about the aliens. I'm going to show you an alien in real life, bro.
And everyone that's watching this can do it right now. I need you to go to your bathroom,
stand in front of your sink. Most people have a mirror there. I'm going to teach you a way to
see the aliens that it's going to blow your mind away. Flick the light on and just look
into the mirror and you're going to see the alien. We are the aliens if you believe in God.
If you believe in God, we, human beings, are the aliens. We are not the ones that originated
on this earth. The story of creation, Adam and Eve, peace be upon them. They were cast down from
the heavens when they fell into temptation. So we're the aliens, Danny. I got a newsflash for
you. You're an alien, bro. Welcome, man. Thanks, man. Happy to be here. I'm sure you come
with a Christian upbringing. You've heard the story of Adam and Eve, right? Okay. What did
say? We fell from the Garden of Eden, yeah? Right. Okay. So you're the alien, Danny?
Yeah, but isn't, wouldn't every being from another place be an alien to you? So we are aliens too.
If there's another civilization out there, we would be alien to them the same way they're
aliens to us. So we're all aliens in that sense, right? Absolutely. Alien means something foreign
or not understood. Right. And that concept, I agree with what people say, like there's aliens and
we're going to see them. Yes. But I'm going to use the Abrahamic perspective on this. We know
from the Jewish Christian and Muslim tradition that before we were created human beings,
there was a species created before us. We're not the first species with free will. We always talk
about how human beings have free will. I just talked about it a little bit right now. I can do
whatever I want. Well, we were not the first species created with free will. We hear the
word Satan. May he be far from us. May he be cursed. This is the greatest enemy humanity has.
Before we were even created by the Creator, this being declared war on us. He was full of envy,
full of jealousy. They're not like that God had made another that God would come to love and
design and instill greatness into his spirit. He blew into Adam, the first human being ever
created. The devil declared war on Adam before he was even created. Now, from the Christian
perspective and no offense to my Christians, because I love them, they say that the devil was
a fallen angel and they use the word fallen angel. That is, I believe inconsistencies when we try to
translate words from Armaic, Greek, Arabic into the English language. When we think of the word
demon, we only think of it from the English language. Usually when I hear the word demon,
it means like evil. They're not good. There can be none that are good. And this is not fair to that
species. The species of the devil, as explained from the Islamic tradition, is a being made of a
smokeless fire. So it's a flame with no smoke or maybe electricity. We don't know. This species
lived on earth long before us. They have free will and there's different types of them. They're
known as the Jinn, J like Janet, I and like Nancy. It's where the word genie comes from. You rub the
bottle, the Jinn comes out and you make a wish to the genie. You basically sell your soul is what
you're doing. The demonic realm and the way we understand it from the Anglo-Saxon perspective,
the Christian perspective, the American perspective is like there can be no gooder, but like they're
only bad, like the exorcists, right? Demonic. That's not the case. There are species that lived on
this earth before us. The devil, they were very similar to humans in the sense that they had
wars with each other. They're on this earth in a parallel dimension. They're on this earth
in a parallel dimension. We can't see them, not all of us at least. And this demonic realm
is where I believe this alien agenda is coming from. And it's one of my theories and I'm going
to get into this. So demonic realm, you call it. Parallel dimension. These beings interfere,
they whisper, are they all bad? No, that's what I'm trying to explain. They're not all bad.
So they were very similar in humans in the sense with free will that they would kill each other.
They had wars that, you know, we don't know everything about their history, but there's a
lot of it in the Islamic tradition, which is fascinating. And I'm going to give the correlations
to aliens here in a little bit and my interpretation of what's really going on, I think. So once we
were cast down from the heavens, right, because Adam fell into temptation, then God said, okay,
all of you get down from here. He granted Satan a second chance, not a second chance, but like
he gave him more time before the end of the world to try to lead as many of us as he can
astray. He hates us, bro. Okay, he can't stand us, the devil, Satan. Okay, Satan as the Arabs would
call him. But before that happened, he was the best of that species. So God took him up into the
heavens, you understand? That's why he was amongst the angels. He was not an angel. An angel does not
have free will. An angel is a creation of light, also in another dimension that we, you know,
we can't see. Okay, these species are like the soldiers of God. They do not even make a move
without being commanded. They don't have free will. So you have the species of the devil,
they have free will. The angels don't. When God gave the commandment for all the angels to bow,
to Adam, when he created Adam, the only one that didn't bow was the devil, Satan. The angels all
bowed. So how could he have been an angel? Angel doesn't have free will. He would have bowed. He
was one of the gin of the demonic realm. They have free, free will. You look a little confused
like I'm losing you. What do I need to clarify? No, I'm wondering where you got this information
from. This is from the Islamic tradition. And some of it's from the Christian tradition. This is in
the Quran. This is not in the Quran. And there's some mentions of this stuff, the Jinn are mentioned
in the Quran, but this is also from the Hadith. Now the Hadith are the basically the equivalent of
what I would call the New Testament. Like the New Testament, I don't have Jesus exact words.
I have what Paul thought he heard, Luke thought he heard, John thought he heard,
right? Of what happened, right? Those are the Testaments. That's why it's called the New Testament.
So the Hadith are the Arab version of the Testaments. Anyone that ever heard the Prophet
Muhammad speak, and then there's a narration. The difference between those Testaments
and the Christian Testaments is that they're preserved a little bit better. So in the Islamic
world, the Hadith are like what they believe to be the authentic sayings of what the Prophet said.
The Quran is solely the word of God, which should be taken for that and nothing else.
The Hadith should be taken with a grain of salt. Some of them may have been his words. Some of
them may not have been his words. It depends who narrated the chain of those sayings. So they would
write the Prophet's wife, Aisha, said that she heard him say this. So the Muslim would say,
well, if it came from his wife, that's probably more authentic than from Tom Dick and Harry who
said they heard him speak. So they're preserved in that fashion. Got it. So a lot of this comes
from his expressions of what he said the end of the world would look like, what the end of time
would look like, and the correlations between the Christian and the Muslim perspective of the end
of times. A lot of it's the same. What will come towards the end of time? The mark of the beast,
anti-Christ, corruption, all the shit that's going on in our culture. Up is down, down is up.
All of this was talked about in the Christian faith and the Muslim faith. And a lot of it
overlaps a lot of it. It's fascinating stuff. Why I think where people should start their journey
is understanding the occult, understanding that there's these societies that have existed since
forever that have penetrated governments, entertainment, you name it, okay? And there's
an obsession with the Prophet Solomon. Solomon's in all three religions, by the way. Solomon's
probably one of the most fascinating prophets you could study. We believe that every prophet had
a power. Moses had the rod and his hand glue as bright as the sun. Jesus, peace be upon him,
he walked on water, he brought people back from the dead. He did amazing things, bro, right?
What was the miracles of Solomon? Solomon had the power to control and to command
every living creature in this world and in the world we can't see. He had dominion over
both dimensions, the dimension that we live in and the demonic dimension.
And the Quran even says that he was building his temple and he commanded the demonic realm to dive
to the deepest parts of the ocean and to remove pearls and treasures from the sea so he could
decorate the temple with it. And these beings would go literally to the bottom of the ocean
in a millisecond in the flash of an eye and bring them back these jewels, literally in a second.
It mentions the Queen of Sheba and the Quran. And it's also, if I'm not mistaken, I think it's
mentioned in the Christian scripture also, where he sent for her to come to his kingdom
and he said, which one of you, and he's talking to the Jinn, the demonic realm that I'm talking
about, and he tells them, which one of you will bring me her throne by the time she gets her?
And then one of them proudly boasts, I will. And within the blink of an eye, this throne appears
in Solomon's kingdom so that when Queen Sheba comes, she sees her throne, she sees her own
throne there. She's like, and we're talking about a massive throne. How is my throne here?
And then she realized she's dealing with Solomon, the prophet of God, had power over
both dimensions, bro. This is why the occult has always obsessed with Solomon. He had power over
this dimension and the demonic realm. Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast
is brought to you by Verso. We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition,
exercise, and sleep as we age. It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed
at length with doctors and nutritional scientists on this podcast. That is why I use Verso. Verso
is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that
hold the potential to increase longevity. I take cell being every day to help combat aging by
increasing my NAD levels with powerful ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol, and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called certuans.
Certuans are called longevity genes because by activating them they support overall health
and slow down aging related effects by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damaged DNA, and ramp up energy production
in your brain, immune system, and muscles. Now you can't take NAD plus as a supplement because
it's too big for the cells to absorb, but NMN directly converts to NAD plus while resveratrol
activates your certuans, which increases their attraction for NAD. These two molecules act
synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN on its own. Verso also publishes
third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee you're getting what you pay
for. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Danny. It's spelled D-A-N-N-Y to save 15%
off your entire order, or just go to ver.so forward slash Danny. Back to the show.
When they do their rituals as always on a checkered board, it symbolizes the two dimensions,
the dimension of light and darkness, our dimension and their dimension crossing. Bohemian Grove,
all these things everyone talks about, that's what these rituals are to ball. And one of the
most important people should study, one of the most important people is Aleister Crowley,
the father of the American cult, bro. This guy, when he starts doing all his crazy shit,
this is where you see that shift in technology also with people like Jack Parsons. These are people
that you need to know, that you need to study, to understand where we are today and why these
things are literally right in front of our face because we've been conditioned slowly, gradually
to accept this satanic shit that is not normal, man. Very slowly, very subtly, our enemy has a
longer lifespan than we do. The demonic realm, they live longer than we do. They follow us,
they communicate. When you're dealing with some fortune teller who's actually saying shit that's
real and you're like, how the fuck do they know? Some of these people have sold their souls. Black
magic is real. The evil eye is real is something we're going to talk about. It all comes from this
dimension that is parallel to ours. My fear is with everything that's been going on, now that
they're declassifying all these documents and UFOs are real and supposedly in Peru, they were battling
seven-foot aliens two weeks ago and then you got people like Stephen Greer who want to say,
hey, it's all real. These are demons, brother. We know that they can travel at the speed of light.
The demonic realm, we know this from Scripture. We know that Cain, the one who killed his brother
Abel, right? First murder on earth, we know that the devil, based on these traditions,
shapeshifted into a human being when amongst the children of Cain and taught them how to make music.
That is where music was created. It's actually a demonic inception. So this is where music comes
from because it's the weapon of them. It's the weapon of the demonic realm. Watch a movie without
music. You'll never cry. I promise. You can watch a million things. Maybe it'll be a little sad,
but unless they play like that inception music in the background and then you see in today,
I lost my, you won't feel shit without that sound. It's a very powerful weapon.
So we know from some of these traditions, we know especially from the Muslim tradition,
that the devil shapeshifted in front and went into the children of Cain and taught them how
to play instruments and make music. The weekend has been going around since day one, bro.
People have been gathering since the beginning of time on the weekend to dance to music, bro.
Literally, since this whole thing started. The weekend has existed since day one on earth, bro.
Music is how the children of Adam were mixed again. So when Cain killed his brother,
for those of you that understand, Adam had many kids. One of his kids was named Cain. One of
them was named Abel. Cain killed his brother to take his wife. He really wanted his wife.
He took her. He went down from the mountain because the first human beings lived up in the
mountains, took them down. This is based on, you know, Muslim and Christian, you know, history.
Right. He went down and started his own community. Adam, before he passed away,
commanded his children, the ones that were left on the mountaintop, do not mix with the children of
Cain. The only way now, the devil wanted to get them to mix. So he went amongst the children of
Cain, taught them how to make instruments. They heard the sounds. They would come out of curiosity.
They would see them dancing once a week. They were having like festivals. This is literally
been going on since the beginning of time, the weekend, the party. Since the beginning of time,
bro. They see them dancing. They ended up getting closer and closer. They made contact. That was
it. They mixed. That's how it happened. But the moral of the story there is that the devil was
able to do what? He was able to shape shift. He was able to change appearance. They talk about
shapeshifters with the alien technology, the Anunnaki. We know from Solomon that these species
could travel in an instant and not only go to these places, but bring back material objects
to him to build his temple. This is in the Holy Quran. So that's the obsession of the occult
with Solomon's temple, the intermixing of these two dimensions. I believe that because
all of this information is coming out about aliens and all the stuff is that there will be an event
sometime in the future where we will see aliens, but they're not aliens, bro. They are demonic
beings that have attacked humanity since day one. Their mission is to lead us astray. Their
mission is to make us believe that there is no God, that we came from them. This is where
Scientology comes from. It all goes back to Alistair Crowley, Jack Parsons, Scientologist
Ron Hubbard. Yeah, that's crazy. They were all boys, bro. I just learned recently that they were
all friends. They all spent a lot of time together. Elron Hubbard, Alistair Crowley, and Jack Parsons.
Tell him to pull up on this picture. Let me show you your grays, bro. Pull up
Lam, L-A-M, and Alistair Crowley. Lam is this being that he would communicate with and do
rituals with. When you look at a picture of Lam, it looks literally like a gray alien. Okay,
he drew this with his own hands. Okay, there you go. What does that look like to you, Danny?
What does that look like to you? That looks like, does it look like an alien? It looks like
something from like one of the fucking cartoons my kid watches. But there's a little like an alien.
Yeah, it's got the alien-shaped head, but what? He didn't call it alien, bro. He went to Channel.
He studied black magic. What does that say underneath?
You cannot understand the world we live in until you learn who this guy was and who he
was rolling with and what was going on. You want to be woken up to what's going on in the world?
You need to know who this man was and his impact on the world that we live in today. Period.
I believe much of the technology we have- Who drew this picture again?
Alistair Crowley. Now, Alistair Crowley, he was Satanic, right? He called himself-
Father of the Occult. The Church of Satan, right?
A lot of his followers went into that and opened up. He was like their pope, basically, bro,
this guy. He studies in the Great Pyramid of Giza. He went to like meditate in these pyramids,
right? From the Abrahamic faiths, the ancient Egyptians, right? Pharaoh was one of the most
hated people ever by God. Who? Pharaoh, the Pharaoh of Egypt. That's why God destroyed him in the
Red Sea when they drowned. You see in the movie Ten Commandments?
The Pharaoh told his people, I am God in the human form. You understand? I am God in the human form.
Even though God sent all these miracles that people would say were crazy, we believe in these
things. Like, how can you believe that a guy walked on water and brought people back from the dead?
You know, people think we're crazy that we believe this. They think we're fools that we believe
this. And it sounds pretty crazy. It does go against logic, right? For me to believe that G,
and I do, I believe Jesus Christ walked on water, bro. I believe he brought people back from the
dead, bro. I believe that actually happened. That's crazy to say that people are like, well,
so educated. You're so stupid. You believe in these fairy tales? It's a very complicated reason
why I believe in all that. We can get into that a little bit later. But where I was going with this,
people need to study this stuff, man. This guy goes into the Great Pyramid of Giza,
meditates. These beings are contacting him. Pharaoh was the most hated human being to ever walk the
earth by God, because he saw God's miracles with his own eyes, and he still said, I'm God. So imagine
the locusts are coming. Fucking all this chaos is going. And he's still telling people, no, I'm God,
because that's what they believe. He was God on earth, right? The Pharaoh. So he was considered
the most arrogant human being to ever live, because he saw the miracles and still kept saying, I am
God. You know, it's funny because they discovered that Pharaoh, by the way. You know, they found who
they believed to be Ramses, right? Who? They dug up this mummy from that mistake. I forgot which year,
but they carbon dated it to the time that Ramses would have been alive. And this mummy was not even
mummified the way the others were, but perfectly preserved, perfectly preserved.
They do an autopsy. They see the guy died from this particular mummy died from drying in salt water,
drowned in salt water. Really? Ramses? He's in the museum, bro. Hair, nails, everything.
One of the miracles of the Quran. And on this day of Pharaoh, we preserved you as a sign for those
that will come after you. You can go on. Look, this is a guy. You got to remember at that time,
ancient Egypt was a superpower, bro. Yeah, it was America. Like those pyramids were like the
World Trade Center, bro. Like beyond that, imagine even probably even more crazy for that time period.
It's as structures like that were crazy, bro. I believe that the ancient Egyptians worked with
that realm also. It wasn't aliens, bro. They were working with the demonic realm, bro. They were
doing black magic. They were inspired. They showed them how to do this shit, bro. You think they,
you think the Egyptians built the pyramids? With the help of the demonic realm, not the alien realm,
demonic realm. Okay. Remember, the devil's going to go with- What do you think the purpose of the
pyramids was? I'm not sure, man. I don't know. I'm not going to try to act like I know, but
you got to remember, I also believe that maybe they were built because remember,
the Jinn around this earth before us, maybe they built them and the Egyptians just found them,
bro. Could have also been another theory that it was not actually built by them. I don't know, but
there's plenty of stuff that supports that the Israelites built, but I don't think it was the
Israelites that built those, bro. You know, they might have built other structures throughout Egypt,
but my theory is that I think the demonic realm was involved in the construction of those. Remember,
they're going to help any civilization or culture that's leading humanity astray.
They're going to give them secrets and power and they do these rituals and they do crazy shit.
But getting back to the point, because we're going as a lot here, man, and it's like,
I'm trying to keep it as organized as possible. It's not an easy subject to cover.
People need to know who Alistair Crowley was, bro. You need to know who this guy was.
If you think it's an accident that this guy is doing all these crazy rituals,
orgies, all this crazy shit, when did he live? When did he die? He was born in England. Okay.
Okay. 18 something. He was born. Okay. And then he made his way to the US,
but first he studied in like the Middle East. He learned like Karbala and all this crazy other
stuff like, you know, ancient magic and all. And like I said, he was meditating in that pyramid.
Are there photos of him near the pyramids, around the pyramids?
I believe so. I hope you'll pop everything in. There's tons of pictures of him, bro.
He had government officials following him. He had artists following him, actors following him.
Walt Disney was his boy, bro. Walt Disney was his boy, bro.
Wow. Okay. So I don't find it a coincidence that
this guy who's doing all this black magic and worshiping the devil and doing all this
crazy shit being contacted by beings is by accident, bro. Jack Parsons is the reason
we go to space, bro, which some people debate, but it's the reason we get rockets, rocket fuel.
He has a dream, Jack Parsons and his own autobiography. You can read all this.
You should know who Jack Parsons is. The technological curve was kind of flat until
these guys start messing around in the desert, bro. And it goes like this after them, bro,
like skyrockets. Like, you know, you've seen the chart of technology and then it just,
you know, like we were like this forever and then it just went like this.
Yeah. Right around the time these guys were playing games in the desert, bro,
doing all kinds of weird shit. He discovers rocket fuel. Okay, this guy
is chilling with Crowley, one of his like disciples. He sees a dream where a being named
Belio Dejal. Dejal is the Arabic word that Muslims use for Antichrist. Same concept.
Muslims and Christians believe towards the end of time, someone will come claiming to be
Christ when the world is in chaos. Everyone's starving, civilization collapses, like all
hell breaks loose. And then this human being appears that says I am God worship me and I'm
going to save you guys, Antichrist. The Muslim word for it is Dejal. It's the same concept.
This guy who's not even Arab says he sees a dream that the Antichrist came to him in the dream
and said, you are very important for my work. I'm going to help you get to rockets up. And he
taught him how to make what he created for rocketry. He's considered the father of rocketry.
Right, right. He says he was contacted by a being named Belio Dejal, which is the same word Muslims
use for Antichrist. Now, why are they even talking about this stuff? Why is this guy even care to
put that in his biography? These guys are all boys, bro. Celebrities are with them.
Government officials were practicing Thelma. That's the name of the faith that they call this
Thelma, T-H-E-L-M-A, Thelma or whatever. He wrote a book like about the will of man.
So it's the opposite of what Muslim means. Muslim means one who submits their will to God.
Their book is about man following their own will, which is what from the Abrahamic perspective is
when a human being only follows their desires, you are not acting in accordance with the Creator.
Right. And Satanism is all about worshiping yourself, right?
So basically, people go like, why would God make the angels, which are the most beautiful creation
that can do nothing wrong, right? Why would God make them show us respect, like bow towards us?
Not bow the way we bow to God, but like show us respect. Because when a human being acts in
accordance with the Creator, when they submit their will and not their desire, most men,
their desire is to grab every woman they see if they're willing to be with them and just have lust
and fun and gluttony and write and all these things. That's our desires, right? When you submit
your will to God, you suppress your desire and you obey God. When you follow only your desires,
you're feeding into what Satanism is all about. So for me, I found it interesting that his book
was about the will of just man, like you yourself, it's okay to do whatever you want and be whoever
you want. Like, so that's where a lot of this shit comes from, bro.
Years and years of these people, their disciples getting into government positions.
They still do these rituals. You've seen plenty of videos online. Why are they dressing up in
cloaks, bro? That video was real. Whether you hate AJ, love him, don't like him. He went into the
grove. He got you footage of these guys. AJ? Let's not say his name. You're already in a
dwell house already. One of the most controversial people that gives news, they want to throw him
in jail. AJ, bro, he's in Texas. Info. Oh, come on, bro. Yeah, yeah, okay. We got to speak in code
now. You're not in a free country no more, bro. Gotta speak in code. So, bro, you explain to me
why these powerful people all follow this stuff, you know, but the agenda has been to convince
humanity that we were created by aliens and not God. The agenda is to convince humanity that we
were created by aliens. The greatest devil, the greatest trick, the greatest trick that
devil ever pulled was not to convince the world that he doesn't exist, was to convince the world
that he's an alien. I believe technology may already exist and it could be the certain project. I
don't know. I believe they figured a way to open that dimension into our dimension. And that is why
they are now releasing all this stuff. They precondition us with movies. These guys were playing
around with these beings to begin with, but they're not aliens, bro. They're demonic. When people
take ayahuasca, what happens sometimes they see these elves. It's not elves, bro. You just saw
demons. The reason some of them are nice is because, like I told you earlier, they have good,
they have free will. You might have came across the ones that are actually nice. The ones that are
aligned with Satan, they're evil, bro. They, you know, so people go into these trips, man. I had,
I can't mention her name. She was in a big Hollywood movie. She hits me up. She's like,
I'm having nightmares. I'm like, what did you do? She's like, I took ayahuasca and I'm just seen
the most horrific nightmares I have ever seen in my life. I cannot sleep. I'm like,
Freddy Krueger, bro. She's like terrified to go to sleep. She performed some prayer.
I sent her some water to cleanse herself with, like baptized basically. The next day she slept
perfect. She's like, I don't know what you did, but it worked. She like basically cleansed.
This realm is real, Danny. These people have been worshiping, I believe, and working with these
beings for a very long time. This is a demonic agenda to destroy humanity, to make us go,
because the devil's always going to make us go against what God made us. God made us beautiful,
He made us together, He made us in pairs. He made us binary, man and woman, right?
And we are now at the end, I believe, of a very corrupt time we're living in. I believe there
is no way out for us. I know we were sports, our duty to stand up against injustice. I really think
that we're towards the end of time. I don't think humanity, and others sounds crazy to people,
but I think that based on the signs at the end of the world in Christianity and Islam,
Islam is very specific, by the way, some of the signs in Islam. When buildings touch the sky in
the Arab world, He said, the day will come where the pagan Arabs, you know, like the Arabs will
like make buildings that touch the sky, and as soon as they build one, they'll build another,
and they'll compete with each other. Now Saudi Arabia is building the biggest building on earth,
and they're going to boast about it. He said this 1400 years ago. He said that they will come when
dishes communicate. You know, they're going to talk to each other, and families will be torn apart.
The word he used back then is the word the Arabs used today for satellite television, bro.
Dishes will talk. He said they're going to hang up mats on their walls, like you have this TV,
it looks like a, he's like, they're going to hang them up, and he used his hands,
he made like a rectangle, they're going to put them on the wall, and it's going to destroy
their souls, because all you see under this filth, Danny, these are his words, bro. You read these
these these prophecies, they're amazing, man. He said the men will become women, women will become men.
He said that, just amazing, I mean, you just got to go study the signs of the underworld and
in Christianity and Islam, it'll blow your mind away. How do you think we went down this path,
though? Do you think, do you think there at some point there was a fork in the road where we could
have gone down another path following desire, Danny? What I was trying to say earlier is that
why did God make the angels bow to humanity? Because when a human being out of their own free will
chooses to submit their desires to follow the Creator, they are higher than the angel,
because the angel cannot sin. That's why the devil was not a fallen angel, the devil had free will.
When a human being acts according to the gift that God gave them, which is intelligence,
they are higher than all of creation. When a human being only acts upon desire, eating,
drinking, sucking, fuck, is that all there is to life, man? Eating, right? Tony Montana said in
the Russian, is this all there is to life, huh? Eating, drinking, sucking, fucking. I can't even
have a little kill with her, man. I got a zombie for a wife. We become zombies, bro, because all we
do is follow our desire. Eat, drink, suck, fuck, we don't care about no one else, nothing else,
we become lower than the animals, because animals act like that. Animals don't use the,
they don't have intellect, they only have instinct and desire. They eat, drink, suck, fuck, so when
a human being, that's all, and it's scary, they call us consumers, cattle. When a human being only
follows their desires, they are lower than the animals. When a human being uses the intellect
that the Creator gave us, and acts in accordance with that, they are higher than even the angels,
because he chooses, she chooses, to submit their desire to follow God. When we only act upon
desire, eat, drink, suck, fuck, we are lower than the animals, because they don't possess our intellect.
Danny's like, I don't know why the fuck I bought this creature.
Danny's like, this guy's lost his fucking. Does any of this resonate with you, bro? Are you falling
asleep on me? No. Yes. Oh yeah, that looks good that way. Danny, do you think I'm out of my mind?
Yeah, you think people can follow? I think you're definitely out of your mind.
There's a lot here, bro. Bro, there are no aliens. Human beings are the aliens. We fell from the
heavens. The demonic realm is positioned to try to come into this dimension. I believe they will.
The Christians call it the bottomless pit. I can't say for certain if CERN is 100% the machine
that's going to do it, but they're building more and more of them. China's building one,
they're building one in the U.S. That is the largest machine on the face of the planet.
Are you talking about the collider? That's correct. That's particle collider.
I believe they figured out a way to create black holes. Black holes, I believe, are nothing more
than a doorway to a different dimension. They used to be that they think it sucks you in and
that's it. Yeah. I believe this is how these demonic creations, even angels, can very quickly
travel. What do you think about people who have the ability to see some of these phenomena? Do you
think there's something in them genetically or in their brain where they can tap into another
dimension and see UFOs or see aliens or communicate with something else? These beings can inspire
thought on us or what you would call telepathy. You're talking about the muse. We always show
the cartoon where it's like the angel and the devil on your shoulder. I believe that's 100% real.
I don't believe, I believe that these beings, literally what you would call telepathy, they
inspire thought into the heart of man and woman. These thoughts you get like, you know,
should I, I'm married, man, but the damn, she's hot. You know, this girl's hot. Maybe I should,
you know, even though I'm married and there's like that desire, like they feed these thoughts.
They don't make you do it, but they like basically like inception. They plant thoughts in your mind
that seem like a good idea, but it's really not a good idea. So they use some of that on us. They
can possess objects. They can possess people that allow themselves to be possessed. I believe
there's rituals. We know that from Solomon's temple, they learned the ancient arts of black magic,
that it was buried under his temple. Legend has it, the Knights of Templar went down there and
found it. And that's kind of how this all started. We don't know for certain, but we know that there
was manuscripts. We know that Solomon told his people at that time that we're practicing the
arts, black magic. It's mentioned in the Quran that there's black magic that can separate a man
from his wife. We know that the devil has an army that only, like he has armies, religions,
that literally focus on certain types of sin. One of his armies only focuses on divorce.
One of his armies only focuses on murder. Every day they come back, we know his throne is on water,
based on the Islamic tradition. Some of the scholars believe it's either the devil's sea,
literally, or the Bermuda Triangle. We know that the devil's throne is on water, on this earth,
different dimension, but on this earth from the Abrahamic perspective.
There is, in my opinion, a true agenda because of people like this that were very influential in
our world, bro, to deny these people, to deny Aleister Crowley, his impact, the people that were
around him on modern science, on rocketry, on all this stuff, bro. We would not have this technology
without satellites. It all goes back to this guy. Why would the Antichrist give Jack Parsons
the technology or the idea to create rockets? I don't know, but what I do know is if they're
doing weird rituals, if they're doing sacrifices, whatever the fuck they did, none of us were there,
brother. There's crazy shit going on on this earth, brother. There's a lot of kids missing, bro.
There's a lot of things we can't explain, bro, that people are trying to wake people like,
yo, guys, this is not normal. You're seeing shit in awards shows and music and the one eye,
which, by the way, the symbol in Islam for the Antichrist is one eye. Why do they all do this
shit? And it's in your fucking face. It's the eye of Ray, bro, the sun god, bro. It's all there,
man, the information. It took years. And I really don't feel like I did this justice the way I was
intending because it's a very complicated subject. And it can seem like you're out of your mind and
you're crazy. And I would just tell people who don't understand what I'm saying, who might think
I'm off the wall. I don't take any drugs. I don't drink alcohol. I'm not crazy. It's hard to explain
something in such a condensed amount of time. I told you in the beginning of this, please don't
take anything I say for real until you go study yourselves. Don't take what I'm saying. I'm just
giving you some cliff notes from my life of what I believe is going on and what I think is going
to happen. And I think what's coming for all of us, brother. I believe we're on the last days of
this nation, bro. Now, whether it exists physically after whatever's going to happen is going to happen,
I do not know. I know that they want one system. I know they want it for the whole world. I know
that the antichrist can only rule if none of these countries have sovereignty. That he has to be the
supreme being to rule the earth, control all money or products, all stuff. I know blockchain can do
that. I know it's terrifying. Once I understood crypto and blockchain and what could be coming
for all of us, you guys better wake up. You better pay attention. You think they made crypto?
They told you the story of this Japanese wizard. He's a wizard. He lives in a cave. He made this
coin. It's called Bitcoin because if they told you that crypto was going to enslave you, you would
never use it. Some of you are so stupid, you probably still would. So they had to give you a
story. There was this wizard. He's like the wizard of us. He made a coin called Bitcoin.
How would crypto enslave us? Do you know how blockchain works, bro?
Kind of. I have a loose understanding of it. It's like a universal ledger. Nothing can be
hidden from it. Right. Exactly. And I'm not saying, and again, so forgive me for using Bitcoin itself,
the concept of crypto. I understand. Right. Crypto. Open store. I was saying, I'll tease
everything. Shout out to Matt Cox. I was on his show too, a couple other shows. I said, listen,
once I understood what blockchain was, now they announced central banking digital currency.
I said, do you think they would ever allow something that they can't control
in our possession? They would destroy it. Yeah. But you know, the coins are doing good. Yeah.
Why are the coins doing good, bro? Or why did they do better than when people bought them for
nothing? Because you had people like Elon Musk, we're going to accept this coin now.
This company, we're going to accept this. All it takes is one rule. No US corporation can use
this type of coin. All those coins crash overnight, bro. You've seen the scandals that have gone on
in crypto, all this shit. So that was just a reaction to what the blockchain or what cryptocurrency
could be. The bottom line is the way I understand is they can program what you eat, what you like,
literally how much meat. This is where it's all going, brother. Under the guise of my opinion,
global warming, climate control. Don't say that word. It all ties in. And the only way it can
work is if we're all on one system, one grid, one currency, one world government. You don't believe
there's a push for one world government? Yeah, I do. Okay. So America's in the way. America has
been there. But I don't see how crypto or blockchain could hurt us. I feel like it.
What can I hide easier? Cash or crypto? There's always a trail on crypto.
Cash. But cash is controlled by the US. It is. But can I put like $100 in my pocket and go over a
border with it? Yeah. No one would know in that country you have $100 on it.
Right. But you could also, you can do the same thing with your cryptocurrency. You can keep it
on one of those little drives. The wallets or whatever. But there's always a trail and blockchain
to use it in that world, right? My understanding of it and where it could go is like eventually,
it's like no matter what, yeah, you could keep it separately in a wallet and it's not plugged into
the system. But when you go back in and cash in on the blockchain, right? There's a, what do you
call it? Ledger. A ledger of the transaction. Right. So it's not like what's going on right now.
It's like where I know it can go and where it will go. Do you understand? I believe there's
going to be central banking digital currencies. They're going to lot based on the guys of climate
control. We're eating too much meat. The cows are farting too much. You only get one steak a month.
You fuck up. You don't play their game. They take away your credits. It's all done instantly.
There's no way to, that's where I believe this is all going. And that's also a
anti-Christ type system based on the explanations of Christianity and Islam of how this guy will
control the whole world. You can't buy or sell unless you're in that game, in that system and
accept. So I think this is where it's all going, brother. And it's all, I think what a lot of us
have is we only see one or two towels of the whole mosaic and we don't see the entire mural.
I noticed there's something wrong here. I noticed there's something that could be wrong here.
And very few of us can see the whole, the whole mural and be like, Oh my God,
it took me 20 years to kind of figure it out. And people might be watching saying this guy's
out of his fucking mind. All I'm saying is don't leave nothing to chance. You're not guaranteed
to live forever. Don't just assume that what you know is the truth. If you haven't looked at anything
else, because it should only confirm what you believe to be true or not. You know, regardless
of what the nomination you are, study these people's names I gave you because it's like the wormhole
you're about to go down. If you really go deep into what these guys have done and their impact,
you tell me where they got. How did this guy wake up one day and event this rocketry type stuff?
He's telling you we were doing these different rituals. This being came,
he's drawing pictures of a thing that looks like an alien. We know Scientologists say that aliens
are in the volcanoes. They created us. Supposedly that's what they're faking. So they're all together,
one group Walt Disney, right? These guys are all together. And all these weird things start happening
technologically. I don't find it to be a coincidence, bro. Why all of a sudden now you're
releasing all this information. Why? Right. I think they figured a way to bring that dimension
into this dimension. You're going to see things that boggle your mind, Danny. You might even see
your dead grandfather, but it's not your dead grandfather. It's a manifestation through a
demonic being that has the power to shape shift. We've cured death. You see, we are God. I mean,
this could be one of the ways they fool humanity to take the antichrist instead of believing in
God. These are just theories. I'm not saying everything I say is going to happen exactly
the way I'm saying it. All I'm saying is your radar should be on right now. And if you're not
feeling nothing, if you have no empathy, no empathic capabilities, it means your spiritual
heart is dead. If you're watching things that are disturbing and it doesn't bother you, you've
been desensitized. If you're watching things and you feel no emotion, your heart is dead,
because when you kill what they call the third eye, your heart dies, your soul, you don't feel
nothing. You're alive, but you're numb, which leads me to the evil eye. So many famous people
die from this phenomenon, thinking they have mental illness, thinking they have spiritual,
you know, like physical sickness. No, they don't. The evil eye is a concept that exists
in all three of the Abrahamic faiths. Hold on. Hold that thought. I gotta take a leak.
Yeah, yeah. Tap me in. We're in the Bolshevik war right now, bro. And right now what's coming up
is the, all the pride stuff is going to be, okay, so I had this woman come on my podcast,
her name's Mel K. And we'd gotten in real trouble on this show before, because we talked about this
one family that I will not name, okay? And every time we named this family, the four tech gods all
came down and just fucked my show. Is it Rock Trouts? All of, no. Don't say it. I'm not saying
their name, but I'm not. I'm just trying to tank his own show. Yeah. Wow. That's how much he loves
the deep state. Yeah. So she comes out again. We just mentioned what happened on the show.
They do it to us again. They do it to us again. We just mentioned their name, go,
you remember when we talked about them and they took, it happens again. Damn. So what are they
doing when this happened? Let me say they do this to you. What do they do to you? Okay. So on Apple,
so Apple, Google, Twitter, and Facebook all asked me. How so? Like shadow band, suppression?
No, no, even worse, even worse. So on Apple, they listed my podcast that no one listened to it for
like, like they showed nobody listening to the podcast. So they blocked people from listening?
No, they showed it down. Like when you go to like see what your down, how your podcast is doing,
it listed nobody. And not just one episode, multiple episodes. I got strikes and deletes
on my YouTube channel and all my Facebooks. I couldn't get into my Facebook.
Yeah. So it was just like, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. All on one thing. What did you
mention that this family had done that was so egregious? This is funny because it involves,
it involves something, the Brian that basically this family is so rich that people think that the
CFR is just basically they're board of trustees of CF company, the CF forum relations. They're
your babysitters, bro. Come on. They're the people that taught you how to tie your fucking
shoes. My favorite joke is like, you don't believe the conspiracy is because you love your dad,
you know what I'm saying? So Mel K comes on my show and she's like, and this is, she goes,
I've been talking to some people in the intelligence and they go, this gay pride stuff is going away.
And the next thing you're going to see are immigration riots. This is going to be right
around the next election. So hand to God, we do this episode. Next day, Starbucks is like,
we're banning all the pride stuff. And now you start seeing these little, they're putting little
breadcrumbs out, man. Little breadcrumbs. Oh, I saw this one thing in Chicago. Oh yeah, illegal
immigrants are upset about where they're staying. And these illegal immigrants who speak no English
are holding up perfectly written English signs saying we're tired of how we're being treated.
And now you're starting to see this over and over again. So everyone's always like when,
when all these Republican governors are like sending these, these immigrants all over the
country. And everyone's like, yeah, you're showing those Democrats, bro, they're moving assets. I
know it sounds crazy, but that is 100 what is percent. What do you mean they're moving assets?
These guys coming into the country, bro. Have you seen them? A lot of them are Chinese and a
lot of them are military Russian people. And I'm telling you, they're moving. And this is what's
going to be right around 2024 election immigration riots, people going nuts. And as as listen to
this and you'll start seeing all the little breadcrumbs being put out, may I give you another
scenario? I give you another possible scenario. I hate to piss on your parade. What if we do have
open borders? Thank you, Joe Biden and, and a complete disaster down the border. And so
governors like Greg Abbott are going not, how about you guys want to taste what we're dealing with?
Hey, New York, here you go. They bust 13,000 immigrants in New York. I saw them on eyes.
They had been since the station. Yeah, Brian. And that's a good way to talk. Refugee camp in the
middle of our city. Yeah, that's what they want you to think. That's how you get into. This is
Brian. Look, I'm a puppet master. I'm telling you, that's what you want you to think. You're buying
it. Oh, I thought I was moving assets, bro. They're moving assets. Military people. Dude,
study the Bolshevik war. It is happening in real time. What is the Bolshevik war? Communism
take over. Where? That's just like how communism expanded the Bolshevik war. Yeah.
Where was that? Where was this? The former USSR. Oh, okay. It's how like they came into power. So
what he's basically describing is that like all these things that we see in the media and all
these riots and all the different things that divide people is all intelligence run. It's all
run by intelligence to divide society. And basically like from what I've, what have people
explained to me before is that there's like layers to it, right? You have like the normal everyday
people in society like you and me. Useful idiots. Then you have, then you have above that you could
have useful idiots, people that are known who have followings or public people who can get
influenced. Then you have intelligence. There's a layer above that pulling, you know, pulling
strength. Then you have, this is an out there theory that I've heard smart people explain to me
that above the intelligence, you have the aliens, quote unquote aliens, whatever that might be.
That's a loose term air quotes there. Demons. Demons is what you're saying. 100%.
So, you know, I need people, like I said, we did a lot there. I might have rambled. Please
forgive me. It's a lot of information. I gave you cliff notes. All I'm asking people to do
is just go study some of the stuff I talked about. Go read about the people I mentioned.
But if they're demons, why are they doing things that could be good?
Because this war. Look at the nukes. Look at the nukes. Look at this thing shutting down nukes.
And, and there's been, I mean, there's been a few cases where people have been injured or killed
by getting in the way of these flying saucers or whatever they are. That's what Gary Nolan's
studying. But by and large, it seems like these things are completely non hostile and they're
doing things to make us look in the mirror and not wipe ourselves off the face of the earth.
It depends how you're looking at it. Again, sometimes you do things that are good to get
people in too, right? So remember, from the perspective that I take, not all of them are bad,
right? That realm was created before us. They have free will. Even here in the Britannica,
when we look at the definition of a jinn. In Arabic mythology, a spirit inhabiting the earth,
but unseen by humans, capable of assuming various forms and exercising extraordinary powers.
Belief in jinn was common in pre-Islamic Arabia, where they were thought to inspire poets and
soothsayers. Their existence was confirmed in the Quran, and they are conceptualized in Islam
as creatures parallel to human beings who are capable of choosing between good and evil and
must thus face eventual salvation or damnation. So they have that same test as humanity because
they have free will. Anyone that was given free will by the creator is being tested by that creator.
They are beings of a smokeless flame by nature in the same manner in which humans are said to
be made of the earth, and they cannot be seen by human beings. And if you look at human beings'
skin colors, right? Adam had all of that, the different types of the earth in his, when he was
created. So some of our skin colors look like, you know, like the sand color. Some of us, like,
have red, like the red clay of the earth. You know, some of us that are darker as human beings,
we have, like, that rich color of the, of the, of the, of the, like, you know, like topsoil,
you know? You can really see that, like, the different colors of the earth and human beings'
skin color, you know, if you look at it. I know that sounds crazy too, but. So bottom line is,
these beings were created before us. They have a longer lifespan than us. They follow us from
the minute we're created. Okay? The ones that are aligned with the devil, their only purpose is to
lead us astray, to turn our back on the one that created us. The people that have this
ancient wisdom, this black magic, this ability to work with that dimension is 100% real. I've
named some of the people that did it and you tell me how they invented rocketry and all this other
crazy shit. When they're telling you themselves we were involved together as a group, we followed
this man, his books, the way and all this stuff. They're painting pictures of what they want you
to think is an alien, but they don't even accept as an alien. They accept them as gods. Deities
is what they call them. They didn't call them aliens. We've been conditioned to believe over
the last 60 years, 70 years, that there's other life that's more intelligent than us, and they are
in some ways because they have existed before us. The demonic realm has been around since before us,
but they're not all evil. But the point is, the ones that are not evil are actually supposed
to stay away from humanity. They don't interfere in our dimension. The devil wants to destroy us.
So the people that seek this power, this knowledge that they don't have, they are enlightened,
they are the enlightened ones, is because they work with that dimension.
Have you heard of James Fox documentary filmmaker, makes movies about aliens and UFOs,
well not his first, but one of his most recent ones was The Phenomenon, and then he did one,
this past year he released called Moment of Contact. I didn't see that one yet.
So the premise of it was basically there in this little town in Brazil called Varginia.
There was this craft that crashed, and there was a huge debris field. This was in the 90s,
the early 90s, 92, 93, 94 maybe. And there was these two beings that were seen running around
this little town of Varginia, Brazil. And there was all these witnesses that were interviewed,
like these three schoolgirls were walking home from school through this field. They saw this
being and they described it to everybody. It was on the news. There were other people who
described it. There was these two military guys and two police officers that saw the thing,
they grabbed it, they brought it to a hospital. And when they got to the hospital,
basically all the military showed up and they like cordoned off the hospital,
shut everything down. There was an x-ray technician that was involved and he was there,
he was x-raying the being. And James Fox went there and he interviewed all these people like
20 years later. He's been interviewing them for the past like 12 years, going back and forth
between here and Brazil. And all these people had this exact, the exact same description of what
this being looked like. And there's pictures. If you pull up Moment of Contact, Varginia, Brazil,
you'll go to images and you'll see what the being looked like. The other weird thing about it was
that after they brought it into the hospital, every single person that he interviewed over the
past 10 years, they all described this insanely pungent odor that smelled like sulfur. And the
hospital even smelled like sulfur for weeks afterwards. And they explained the feet of this
being. It was like this little like shiny, dark brown creature right there with red eyes,
they explained it. And they said it had cloven feet and it reeked of sulfur.
Now, I had this lady Diana Posolka on the podcast a couple of months ago and she's a,
she has a degree in religious studies. She teaches religion. She studies religion like
her whole life. And what she says is that every biblical description of demons
in every religious text all describes them as having cloven feet and smelling like sulfur.
And this looks like a gray. This thing looks like a gray, had cloven feet as described by the
witnesses and reeked of sulfur. So the reason why people use sage and all that stuff is because
these beings don't like those smells of the monochrome. They don't like nice pleasant smells.
They like pungent smells. They like are like basically our filth is what they, they enjoy
those smells. I believe many of the homeless people you've seen the streets besides that the
fact that they have problems with narcotics. If they're not even on narcotics, you know,
this is why it's dangerous when you drink alcohol spirits, when you take drugs, you are making
yourself very easily able to be possessed by these beings. There's people who can't remember
they did this, they did that. If you study serial killers, when you get into a certain
level of filth and you're not pure and you're not, well, this is why, for example, Muslims wash
before they pray. The ritual of who do as it's known is to purify the outside so the inside
can be cleansed. If you're not pure on the outside, you can't be pure on the inside.
Baptism, right? And they're made from a smokeless flame. Water defeats fire, right? In that aspect.
So when you're in an impure state, so a lot of times why do you think they do or like if you
study the occult, they would do orgies and all these disgusting things because basically they're
trying to spiritually degrade themselves to the point where these beings see their loyalty
and then they do what they do with them. They give them knowledge that they don't have
technology is give them knowledge. They don't have technology that they didn't have. I believe a lot
of this stuff. There's no way human beings made this on their own, bro. Yeah, we were like the
channel to make it happen. But the information like like I said, go back to Jack Parsons, man.
The guys said I would have never made it to space, you know, the rockets would have never happened
if it wasn't for this being giving me the knowledge. But what did they have to go to get
the knowledge? Some people leave sacrifice, kids, whatever it is, bro, they demand some type of
loyalty, some type of ritual. And then once you've shown loyalty to that dimension, then like they
said, sell you soul to the devil, man. Sell you soul to the devil, they give you the keys to this
dimension, bro, because they know this dimension, even though it's our dimension better than we do,
because they've been here since before we were here. They follow us, they have a longer lifespan,
they can travel at the speed of light, they can inspire thought, telepathy, they can shape shift
some of them. There's different descriptions of the Jinn also in the Islamic interpretation of
what's going on. There's ones that fly, there's like they have different species. Now, some of
these other people with the Anunnaki, all they give like aliens, all these different names,
Valorians, all that. My friend, you're talking about the demonic realm period. So Islam is not
arrogant to say where, no, there's not other species or what you would call aliens, but not
the way you're being spoonfed by the media, by movies, by, and today's our independence day,
we will not go silently into the night. Remember that movie with Will Smith?
Oh yeah, of course. Yeah, that's not, that's what they want you to think. These beings are smarter
than us and they're gonna, my friend, that dimension is real. And there's a phenomenon
that I've experienced in my life that I started studying a lot, because it almost costed me my
life. There is a concept in the Abrahamic faiths, Christianity, Islam, Judaism, known as the evil
eye. Many people have seen and he could pull it up, type in the evil eye on Google, you'll see the
blue symbol, okay, which is really, has no power to help you. I got a newsflash for all of you that
are like putting this amulet up, like it's going to save you or protect you. But the reason it's
created is because of the real fear and the real threat that people have from what this phenomenon
is known as. You want to know why all these celebrities are dead? You want to know why
Robin Williams hung himself? You want to know why, brother? It's the evil eye. This phenomenon,
we learn from the prophet Joseph. And the Quran has mentioned the evil eye, Christianity.
That symbol has nothing, cannot help you. I got a newsflash for you. If you're using this symbol
to try to protect you from the evil eye, you are committing idolatry. You are putting your faith
in your hope into an object when God is the only one that has power. This thing has no,
it's a piece of plastic, man. It's a way to make money. If you want power, you want protection
from the evil eye, I'm going to tell you how to do it. So when I lost my brother, aka my uncle,
I suffered from what I thought was a depression. But I know spiritually, because I've been spiritual
my whole life, praying, worshiping God, fasting, that we were designed by our Creator to be able
to handle anything, no matter how horrific. And the greatest examples of this are the people that
he guided, the prophets, what they went through, know of the ark to see the whole world get flooded,
which by the way, every civilization in the world, even the ancient ones all have a story and a
recollection of a great flood, even the ones that are not Abrahamic, the multi God civilizations,
all have a story of a great flood, bro. Right. Modern science has said DNA wise, we all came from
one ancestor, so you can't rule out Adam and Eve, bro. Science is actually kind of supporting that
if you do homework on DNA that we all had one common ancestor. So what science says, right?
So there's a lot going on, man. And there's so much like religious on something you learn in
one day. It's like, well, that's why I say you have no right to judge anybody. Like it's so deep.
The philosophy is so deep. The history of it is so deep. And it's what drew me to Islam,
because Islam, for me personally, encompassed all of it. The Christian perspective, the Jewish
perspective that God sent messengers and prophets throughout the earth, throughout time. He didn't
just choose one nation. He chose the Israelites for a very long period of time. But when they
didn't accept Christ, then they lost that chain of narration. And then God went to the other side of
Abraham, which was the Arab nation. So remember, the Arabs and the Israelites draw their lineage
to Abraham. Abraham is one of the most important people. That's why it's called the Abrahamic
faiths. That's the common ancestor. Abraham had two sons. One became the Israelites, one became the
nation of the Arabs. So the Islamic interpretation is there's always been only one God. He sent
messengers and prophets throughout the earth. He sent them over and over and over. We kept
fucking up. We kept changing the books. He finally sent down one last message, one last book.
That's what they believe the Quran is, is the final testament. We have the Gospel of Christ,
but we don't have it in its original form. There was 25,000 testaments, man. The Council of Nicaea,
they chose which books went into what we call the Bible today. The Bible is a Greek word. Jesus
was in Greek, man. He spoke Armaic. So what I'm telling people is like, again, I'm not here to
push one or the other, even though it sounds like that right now. What I'm saying is like, we know
so little and then we want to hate each other. Like at the end of the day, as a Muslim, not allowed
to hate Christians, not allowed to hate anybody, not allowed to kill anyone. This is what the
doctrine teaches. What people do on their own, that's their opinion. Same thing with Christians.
Jesus said, love your enemy, let alone people that believe in him too. Like there's so much more
in common and we're going to allow these little things to make us kill each other and listen to
the people say, oh, Muslim's your enemy, a Christian's your enemy. No, we need to talk and
find the common ground. We both love Christ. Love the Virgin Mary. You know, some of my favorite
stories in the Koran are about like Jesus. His first miracle in Islam is very different than
from the Christian perspective, which I found fascinating. The Koran goes into how Jesus'
first miracle was to protect the honor of his mother, to actually save her. So in Islam it says
that when Mary was having Christ, peace be upon him and her, she went into the wilderness to give
birth. She was under lock and key the entire time because her life was in danger. She was not married.
She did not have a husband. So for them to have seen her pregnant, they would have killed her
for adultery. They would have stoned her to death. So when she went out to the wilderness to give
birth to Christ, may he be blessed, God commanded Mary when you go back to the city,
Bethlehem or whatever it was, do not speak to anyone. If they talk to you when they attack you,
point to the baby. Now this is one of the stories in the Holy Koran and it makes a lot of sense.
She wasn't married. She was under protection. She went to have Jesus. When she had the baby,
she comes back to the town now and everyone starts coming out of the woodworks.
Oh, Mary, how could you have done such a thing? How could you have a baby? You're not married.
Calling her the most disgusting names that you would call a woman
and the mobs building up and the Koran says she pointed to Jesus and he's not even a couple days
old. His first miracle was he spoke even in the arms of his mother as an infant. Do not attack my
mother for I am blessed in this life and the next. He told them I am the Messiah. So when they see
this one day, two day, three day, harmony day, not even more than a week old, you just had a baby.
Could you imagine the baby talking after five days? So the Koran says that the first
miracle of Jesus Christ, peace be upon him, was to protect the honor and the dignity of the virgin
Mary. May she be blessed. You think that's true? You think that's real? The baby fricking said that
two days old? I believe in the miracles of Jesus Christ. I believe he walked on water. I believe
he created a pigeon out of clay and blew and it came to life. I believe he cured the lepers in
the blind but by God's power. He was just another one in the chain. He was created the same way John
the Baptist was. Christianity says that John the Baptist, to my understanding in Islam also,
that his parents didn't have physical relations. Zechariah was old and his wife was barren. They
were past the age of burying children. The angel Gabriel appeared said you're going to have a son.
Your prayer has been answered, meaning John, John the Baptist. They never had physical contact.
She was just pregnant instantly with John the Baptist. So Jesus wasn't the first one to be
created without physical contact. Adam was created with no parents, right?
When you look at it from that perspective, I mean if anyone has a right to say on that level
that they're a son of God, he was directly carved with God's hands and the soul was blown into
directly by God. But what if Adam was just an alien who came down? And what if Mary was like in
seven days? Just by aliens. And then Jesus was just like an alien. Adam and Eve came down already
fully formed. They fell from Eden. They had their children at that time. Right. If that happened
today, we would say that was aliens. You know, someone made a joke the other day. It was kind
of funny. It's like when we go into the ocean, they're like, oh, shit, the aliens are like,
when we go down with like scooping gear, but we seem to like lose that battle in the ocean.
But like the idea of angels like back in the day, right? In biblical times is that a lot of people
believe, smart people believe that I've talked to that study this stuff, believe that those were
aliens and they were depicting them as being angels and demons because that's what they believed
in. And when you're telling a story in the Bible, they, maybe they didn't think of them as like
extraterrestrials. Maybe they thought of them as gods because they had these special, these crazy
powers. So when you tell me that this lady came out of the forest with this thing that look,
that was a baby that could speak and communicate with people and walk on water. If you told me
that there was some little creature right now that could do that, I would think, okay, this is some
sort of divine being. I wouldn't think of it as something that was like the son of God.
I mean, Abraham was described as being thrown into a fire and walking out like they,
because he was against idolatry. That's the common theme between all the prophets. And that's the
Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not have any other Lord but me. Thou shalt not make any carven image
or statue. And so many of these denominations make pictures, make images. It's in the Ten Commandments.
That's before Jesus and Muhammad. And they preach the same thing, that we shouldn't be worshiping
anything but God. Mark chapter 10, someone drops on his knees. I believe it's verse 17
of the Bible and says, oh, good master, how do I seek eternal life? And Jesus says, good,
why do you call me good? Only God is good. That's in the Bible. They all said the same thing,
worship the one God, worship the God of Abraham, worship the God of Adam and Eve,
worship the God of Noah of the Ark. They're all one chain working for the boss. There was prophets
and messengers. Prophets brought the new messages that God revealed. Messengers were there to remind
people of the last prophet's mission. So you had prophets that brought the new commandments down
from God and then you had the messengers who reminded people of what the previous prophets
said before them. Those are the two types that received revelation from the Creator.
What do you think created the flood? I think it was not by accident. I think God destroyed the
world and reset it. You know, people talk about human beings have evolved. No, we've de-evolved.
If you believe in the Abrahamic face, you're a Christian, you're a Muslim, you're a Jew,
that we know that Noah of the Ark, this is even in the Quran, lived for 950 years.
We know that the prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, also stated that Adam was
20 qubits or whatever, like basically like 20 feet tall, bro. Okay. I believe this is how human
beings were before the deluge, before the great flood. We had longer lifespans. We were bigger,
right? And we know that there were species on this earth, even before the demonic realm. There's
another species that we know very little about, known as the bin in the Arabic language. We don't
know nothing really about them. We know that there was multiple species and for some reason,
God always chose this planet to bring his creation on based on these faiths. It was always this
planet. So are there aliens in the sense that people are seeing these phenomenon and experiencing
these things and they go to a haunted house? We know from the Islamic perspective that Jinn
like to inhabit areas that are not inhabited by humans. So like, they'll stay in that abandoned
house. You understand? They stay in areas that are like where we would say, oh my God, there was a
ghost. No, that was the Jinn fucking with you. And they fuck with us in our dreams. Nightmares
come from them. And I'm going to get into this. And the Jinn are in the dynamic or demonic realm?
The demonic realm. There's good ones and bad ones. The good ones, they leave us alone, bro. And
they're even broken down by denomination. Some of them are Christians. Some are very similar to
humans, but they're made of a different matter than we are. They have different powers than we
have. What do you think about ghosts? Do you think when humans die, their ghosts can inhabit?
I'm not an expert on that subject matter. Some of the scholars have said sometimes souls do get
trapped, you know, but the majority of people are in their grave. When you go to visit your family,
they're in there, man, and they see you. No one is in heaven or hell until the world ends.
But do you think there's houses that are inhabited by people who have died a long time ago and
their ghosts and spirits are still there? I would say that I think it's possible,
but I would say it's the Jinn in the majority of cases. So they're not past humans.
They can possess objects. They can possess statues. They can possess people. Like if you see a statue
crying, that's most likely a Jinn in that statue creating that phenomenon. So people will be
worshipping the statue, which is a form of idolatry and tricking humanity into like, oh my
God, look, the statue's crying, so I need to worship this statue. It's idolatry. Idolatry is
forbidden in the Abrahamic faiths, period. For those of you that think you're experts in faith
and religion, go back to the basics, the 10 commandments. God said, if you can't remember
anything, remember these 10 rules and you're good. I am one. Don't make pictures. Don't make statues.
This isn't the 10 commandments. Don't make pictures and don't make statues.
I'll shut up, make, pull up the 10 commandments, brother. Pull it up on Google. Let's refresh
everyone's memory. This is what Moses brought. I love Moses. My son's name is, I won't say what
family member of his, but like I named my children based on these names. My children have biblical
names in that expression, but they're also names that are in the Quran and the Torah,
because I respect these individuals and what they did for humanity. Look at the 10 commandments,
man. We forgot the 10 commandments, you know, and there's sex in of Islam that do the same thing.
This is forbidden. It says, you shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make idols,
meaning images or carved things that we put our faith into, like that amulet I showed you, the one
eye. Anything that you focus your belief towards other than the Creator is a form of idolatry,
whether it's a picture. But it can be an idol of Jesus. It's considered a form based on this.
Again, this is before Christianity in Islam. Why would God tell us not to make images,
not carve anything, and then we're doing it right after it? It doesn't make any sense, Danny.
It's not to pick on people. Remember, there's sex of every religion that have deviated. The question
is, why are you doing what you're doing? Have you even studied? Have you researched? We're going
back to what I said in the beginning of this conversation. How much do you know about your
faith? Every religion believes in 10 commandments. How many of us are really following the 10
commandments? If we're praying to images and statues, then I guess the 10 commandments were
wrong. I mean, I'm asking you now, what do you think, Danny?
I just think people are trying to go about their daily lives and trying to survive. People are
just, they're going to work and trying to put dinner on the table. And then I'll read about
what comes next, Danny. Right. That's what we started the school. Well, they don't have the
means to really think about that. I mean, the people- Danny, all day, we're on fucking not
me and you, but let's be real. I know the score of the Jets game. Rogers broke his knee. You put
all your energy into all this shit that really doesn't matter in the scheme of life for most of us.
Okay. And you're going to sit there. I don't think when you face God that day, if you believe
that you're going to face him, you're going to have an excuse to say, well, I didn't know God.
You knew how to use Google to pull up, you know what, and beat your meat all this time,
but you couldn't use this because everything has duality, right? I can use this for good
or for bad. I can use this to enlighten my mind. I read about all kinds of interesting things,
man. But you, like me and you, we have the ability and the time to do that because we literally,
we spend our days talking to people like this. So we are fortunate enough to be able to spend
time studying this stuff and spending a lot of time looking into it because we get to come on
here and we talk about it and get paid doing it. Most people don't do that. They don't have that
ability. For the record, I've not been paid yet, Danny. It's what I'm saying. For the record,
I have done everything out of passion. I wouldn't mind getting some money from this.
Not from this, but like, you know, like to make a living in that aspect. I don't make a living
from podcasting yet. But when I went towards studying spirituality, okay, my own family was
against me. My own family was like, what are you doing? Why are you studying this? You know,
they were like literally against me. My own parents at a very young age, I started studying
religion on my own. Like I said, I came from a secular family. They didn't really have
much structure. Never went to a mosque. They didn't know how to pray. I knew nothing about
religion. And when I started studying, I really started studying in seventh grade
is when I went deep into it. And I had changed so much at that point that my family, I guess,
erased some flags and like, I had become like really serious, you know, very like dedicated. I
was praying. I was fasting, you know, they didn't want to see me staying hungry as a kid in school.
You know, doing Ramadan is not easy, bro, especially in the summer months. So they see
me like, I'm about to go play basketball, varsity basketball, having eaten a drink, you know,
Hakeem Al Ajman was famous for that. And the NBA was now they're telling everyone you should fast.
It's so good for you. It kills cancer. So like, I feel like all this knowledge is there, man.
Human beings made it. There would only be one religion. If we just listened, we kept changing
the books. And I don't like this rule and that rule and interjecting all this stuff is why we
have all these different religions. We went astray is what happened. We went astray. There is a
phenomenon that people need to know about. I believe in this thing because I've experienced it
myself and I'm going to tell two stories very quickly because I hope it saves a life.
I lost a family member of mine was very close to me. I went through two, three years of real
sadness and I did draw on spirituality to get out of it. I didn't get a therapist. People would
make jokes like maybe you should have a therapist, but I really just prayed a lot. God helped me.
I know that God designed us to get through anything. You know, once we understand that power
and that life is a trial and a tribulation and that all of us will be tested, whether it's a loss
of life, all of us are going to lose somebody we love. Or maybe the people we love are going to
destroy us. You know, there's kids that have like the most evil parents like this whole tribulation
people go, Oh, if there's a God, then why is there wars and all this because he gave us a gift, man.
Look, it's free will brother for him to interject. And if we all saw God, right, like for those that
don't believe we saw God, the rest of us will stay the rest of our lives praying because if we saw him,
and it's not because he's a man, I say he's there's no words to even describe God,
the concept of this creator that we would try to be as perfect as we could because if we could see
God, then we would know that there's definitely a hell there's definitely a heaven. So I need to be,
you wouldn't act to your true desire, your true nature. The whole key of this life is to get
the knowledge and to suppress those desires to elevate or as the Buddhists would say to reach
nirvana to elevate as a human being to elevate your soul to be in a state of submission to the
creator, which basically these books are like when a car manufacturer makes a book, all of the books
will make you a better human being. That's a fact. And I believe every single religion had divine
influence, but people went astray or added to the story or changed the concept of what the God was
and made it into multiple. So I believe it all came from the same source. Humanity drifted away.
Humanity kept changing these things. And that's why God kept sending more and more
prophets down until he sent the last one down based on what I believe. Now, the evil eye.
I was going through what I thought was a depression because I lost a family member,
but I understood after two, three years, I'm like, listen, I know the person's never coming back.
Life is hard. God designed us. We're all going to die. Like that's a reality of life.
It's not normal for me to still be in this state. I was suffering at one point in my life from the
worst anxiety ever. It felt like I literally had a ton of bricks on my chest that would never come
off, bro. Okay, I went from being extremely extroverted as I am in my state like this,
talk to everyone. When you go on my Instagram, you see me with every celebrity in the world.
They'll probably watch this episode and hit the fucking on top.
King of the nightlife.
Yeah, they're probably going to watch this episode and be like, okay, we got to unfollow this guy.
I can't be seen in public with this guy anymore. Thanks, man.
So like, you know, I'm connected to so many powerful people. I'm one away from people you
can't even imagine. Some of the names I want to mention. I know what's coming for humanity.
Trust me when I tell you. Okay. And what happened to me was I had this anxiety that would not go
away. It was really bad. I had a fear not to even leave my home. I just wanted to stay in my house.
I became a hermit, bro, which is like so not like me. I was literally staying in my man cave and
playing Xbox. So I wouldn't lose my mind because I thought I was suffering from a depression from
the loss of a loved one. I had lost my sexual appetite. I had a cloudiness. I could not talk
like this, bro. I went from someone that was able to speak in front of large crowds, no fear,
give a speech in front of a stadium, no problem. I just could not articulate the way I articulate
now. Very foggy minded. I would cry for no reason. Like just always in a state of complete sorrow.
Very dark, bro. I would fight with those closest to me for no reason, like arguing with my mom,
my dad for no reason whatsoever. They didn't even do anything wrong. And it was like a rage that I
could not control. And they would leave. I'm like, what the fuck is wrong with me? Like, why did I
act like this? Right? And just a real fear of to even go outside and deal with anyone. And a
constant state of paranoia, fear, depression, all that stuff. After a couple years of like living
like this, literally living in sorrow, bro, such a sorrow, I understood for the first time why
people committed suicide. I didn't have those thoughts, but I understood why. Because this
feeling is such a hopeless feeling. I believe this phenomenon is what they call the evil eye.
I believe many of these public people that die are dying from this. The Prophet Muhammad was
quoted as stating half the people in the grave are there from the evil eye. That's one of his quotes
from the hadith, the traditions of what he said, not the Quran, the hadith. It exists in all three
religions. Now, I go to every doctor on earth. Okay, and I will never speak against mental
therapy, like psychologists, because I do believe that it has its place and there's people that need
help. And that stuff does work. This is for those people that have tried all of that and nothing's
working. I hope you're listening. I hope you're paying attention. I go first to physical doctor.
Let me check everything. Let me check my blood. Let me see. Maybe I'm missing a hormone. I got
to be able to get back up. This doesn't make sense. I was smart enough to know this doesn't
make sense for me to still be in this state and I do worship God and I do pray to God.
And I try to be optimistic and I understand that life is a trial and tribulation,
that the world is not designed for us to all be happy, bro. It's not, because then it wouldn't be
a test. So I go to all these doctors, make the story short. They check everything, my minerals,
my vital, everything is normal. Then the one doctor says you should go see a chronic endocrinologist
or whatever, the one that checks your balls, right? Your male anatomy. I go to this doctor's
office, bro. And I'm the youngest guy in there, man. I'm like embarrassed. I'm even walking into
this. How old were you? This is like maybe 34, 34 years old. It's gonna be 10 years since I lost
the loved one in October. I go into this office, but everyone's like 70, 80. I'm young, you know,
and I'm like, man, this is like embarrassed. I'm embarrassed. I go, the doctor was kind of,
huh, I'm not gonna lie. She was like this beautiful doctor with a mini script. And she's like, this
is like, she's a specialist, right? And like, we have to sit there and talk about my private part,
bro. Yeah. Do you have this? Do you have that? I'm like, no, she's like, does it work? I'm like,
yeah, I said, but I just don't really have a desire to really do anything. You know, she's like,
a libido. Yeah. She's like, I'm gonna check your testosterone levels. She checked everything. She's
like, everything's fine. I'm like, this can't be like this. Where is this coming from?
Because the whole time I'm like, this can't be on my mind, right? She's like, at this,
at this point, sir, I'm going to recommend you go see a psychiatrist. That was like devastating
for me to hear this, right? I'm like, no, no, I know I'm not crazy. If this is all in my mind,
that I'm gonna, I'm gonna beat this thing. If maybe this is what a real depression is like,
right? Again, bricks on the chest, anxiety through the roof ball, overwhelming anxiety,
a fear of going outside, cloudiness of the mind, loss of sexual desire, fighting with those closest
to me for no reason. Nothing's getting better. I'm praying. I'm trying everything. Nothing's
working. I go to visit my childhood friend. She's like my spiritual mother, genius woman.
She had a very high position in the Department of Buildings in New York. I will not mention
her name. I've known her since I was a child. She's of Egyptian descent. This woman is an
amazing woman. She's a genius. She's such a beautiful human being that just when I think
of her, sometimes I break down. She's, she's done so much for me in my life. I go to see her,
not for my problem, Danny. I go to see her because she had lost her brother and it was the holiday.
So I go to pay respects. I didn't go there to tell her my problems. So I go see her and I'm like,
you know, miss so-and-so, you know, I'm so sorry you lost your brother and blah, blah, blah.
And then she gets to asking me like, how are you doing? And when she asked me how I was doing,
I couldn't, I couldn't hold it in, bro. I just started sobbing. I started crying. And I'm like,
miss, you know, so-and-so. If I didn't believe in God and I didn't have children, I don't want to
live no more. That's the way I thought. I just don't want to feel like this no more. I'm sobbing.
She's like, very calmly. What's wrong? You know, what's wrong? What are you feeling? I'm like,
you know, this is what I'm feeling. I gave her all the symptoms I gave you, right? Everything you,
I told you that I was feeling. I explained it to her. She goes, I know what's wrong with you.
I go, you know what's wrong with me? I said, I just went to every doctor in the world.
They're all telling me that I should go see a psychiatrist. I'm probably losing my mind. She
goes, no, I'm going to ask you a couple of questions and then we'll see if that's what you have.
I'm like, listen, you're one of the smartest people I know. I mean, she literally wrote like
the entire construction code for the city. Like she's a genius. And I've known her my whole life
and it's like one of the sweetest. Like when you just see her, she has something that's known as
like the light, like the light of God on her. Like just you meet these people. I've seen Christians
like that. I've seen Jews like that. I've seen Muslims like that, people that are like connected
to source. They're vibrating high as they say, just so calm and so peaceful, bro. Like I yearn to
be like them. I've only been like that a few times in my life, where I've reached what I felt like
a level of nirvana or an understanding of, you know, but I was doing what I'm supposed to do,
right now, following my desires. She goes to me, are you public? She doesn't know about my public
like my public life. She only knows me as her son's friend. She doesn't follow Instagram.
She goes, are you public? I go, yes, I am public. Do you post on social media? Do you post your life,
what you're eating, where you're traveling? I go, yes. She goes, do you ever think about
the people that don't have what you have? I'm like, sometimes I say, actually not sometimes I
say, a lot of times I feel bad. She's like, when you're posting, you're attracting the eye. She's
like, you have the evil eye on you. And you have all the symptoms of it. I go, so wait, Miss
Amber, I said, but how can the evil lie be on me? I pray, I say, I worship God, I perform
ablution, you know, I baptize, I pray, I worship God, am I not protected? She goes,
anyone can be hit by the evil eye, even the prophet was put under black magic and he had to get out
of it, right? And the religion, a spell was cast on him. So these things exist in these fates and
people don't talk about it. It's like swept under the rug, like, oh, this is crazy stuff to talk about.
I'm so desperate. I'm willing to do anything at this point, brother. The way I felt, I'm telling
you, most people would have killed themselves if I wasn't as strong willed as I was. I probably
wouldn't be here today. I finally understand why all these celebrities are dying, bro, and people
that are influencers and I meet women with millions of followers, bro, and they seem happy on their
Instagram, bro, they're suicidal in real life, bro, they talk about killing themselves every
fucking day. She goes to me, this is real simple. You've been posting, people are seeing your posters,
people out there that just don't like you, brother, or they want what you have. They don't do it to you
on purpose. But it's a phenomenon of this world in this dimension. And this is what happens.
She's like, all you got to do is go home, take a gallon of water. You can pull this up on YouTube.
It's a scientific fact, by the way. Take the gallon of water, mention God's name,
blow into the water, pray into the water, charge the water, basically make holy water.
Go home, take this water, drink some of it, and then pour the rest over your body and
ask God to cleanse you and protect you from the demonic realm.
I'm like, Miss, I'm right this. Oh, sorry, strike her name, please. Okay. Okay.
I'm like, Miss, at this point, I'm so desperate. I've tried everything else. This sorrow is
destroying my life. I'll do it. I go home, I take the water, I say the prayers, even as I'm making
the water, I hear a voice in my own mind. That sounds like it's my thought, but I know it's not me.
Because they can do what? Telepathy. They can inspire thought. You think it's yours, it's not.
They do inception in us, bro. And people listen to those thoughts. I don't know what took over me.
I was, it's that, that rage that comes out and over, you listen to these thoughts because they
inspire thought into our minds. And he goes, how are you wasting your time with that? I said,
you know, these motherfuckers are real demons. I charge the water. I say the prayers, I make
intention, intention is very important. Nia, as they call it. I charge the water in the name of God.
I ask for his protection, his help is cleansing from the demonic realm from Satan, Satan.
I drink the water, I cleanse, I purify all of a sudden, Danny, I swear to God, I shit you not.
The cloudiness in my mind instantly gone. I'm sharp. The bricks on my chest, the anxiety that
gone. Sexual drive to the roof, everything back instantly. I said, what the fuck just happened
to me? How do I explain this to people without them thinking I've lost my mind? I went to every
doctor in the world, the same way Michael Jackson did, the same way Robin Williams did,
they had the best therapist in the world, bro. But they couldn't save them because what they
were suffering from wasn't physical or mental. Yes, there's mental illness, yes, there's physical
illness, but there's also spiritual disease. And if you're trying to cure your soul with a physical
remedy, it will not work. So a lot of these people that are dying, when you're that famous,
there's no way the eye doesn't go on you. This is why so many celebrities do drugs,
to numb the pain, they take cypotropic drugs that are not working because if they work,
they would become normal again. They can't. It's a spiritual disease. They're under demonic attack,
which is what the evil eye is, to bring them to a point of such sorrow that they kill themselves
because there's nothing more that that realm loves, that the evil ones of them remember,
they're not all evil, than a human being taking their own life. When a human being takes their
own life, it's like telling the creator, this test is over. It's like, if I gave you a math test
for one hour, so you have an hour to complete geometry test. And the first five minutes,
you could turn your paper over and say, I'm done. You fail. That's why suicide,
as you're basically telling the creator, I'm done with this mission, you put me on.
They're failing, unfortunately, from the sorrow of this world. The evil eye is real, brother.
Now people would say that's probably a placebo effect. There's more to the story.
So now I'm normal all of a sudden, everything goes back to, I just do a little ritual,
bro. I pray to God, I, God directly, no one else, God, I cleanse and purify the water,
I, and it all goes away. And everyone's like, yo, you seem like your old self again. And I'm like,
how do I explain this to people without them thinking I'm crazy. Now I'm like, I got to study
this. So I go in deep, start studying the evil eye. That's where the one quote came up, the
prophet said, peace be upon them, half the people in this world die from the evil eye.
I'm just like, that's a lot on people, man, but we're so public now. These things are dangerous,
man, is creating such sorrow, social media, and I'm guilty of it too. So forgive me. My
father was, I know I post things like, but I do it to try to inspire people like, yo,
you can do better. I was down and out. I've been through hell and back. Look,
you can make your life amazing again. I don't do it to boast because I feel bad.
But it seems like I'm both sometimes if I'm being real.
All of this is going on like, holy cow, this is like, this is crazy. I go to visit one of my
cousins and I had gotten like, you know, like really distant from a lot of people in my family.
And a lot of it was my fault at that time, but I was suffering, bro, and silence. I was so full
of sorrow, I was crying all the time, but there wasn't a day I didn't cry, bro. If I'm being real.
And this is not easy to talk about publicly, but if it saves a life, then so be it.
I go to visit my first cousin. She had just had her first baby. They live in a really rich area
in Jersey. I'm not going to mention her name. She's going to watch this. She's going to know
exactly who she is. I don't go there again for the evil eye. I go there because she had a baby.
I go there to say congrats cousin. Like, you know, I love you. I'm glad you had a baby.
You know, it's a big deal when another life comes into this world in your family.
So I go to pay respects. She's married to like football player guys, bro. They're all like
six, six, like ripped. They're wealthy. They got a lot of money, whatever.
One of, if I'm not mistaken, her husband was signed to the Patriots Practice Team,
but decided not to like, you know, I was like, why didn't you take the job? He's like, they're
only going to pay me 400 and I'll probably abuse me. I said, dude, I would have took 250. They
could have knocked me out. But I joke around about that. But so like, you know, very wealthy,
very good looking. The younger brother ends up being a QB for one of the big colleges. I won't
mention who. Okay. I'm going through all this with them. Just about their baby, you know,
congratulations. And I'm like, something came over. I'm like,
I kind of got to tell you guys something. And I don't know how to tell you this, but I'm going
to tell you, I may have acted a little irrational the last couple of years. I thought it was all
because of we lost this family member, but I think something else was happening to me
that had a hold over me. And I need to explain this to you because I'm scared if this ever
happens to anyone else, they might not know how to get help. And what I did was I explained everything.
I told them the whole story. I went to every doctor. I did this. I did that. I told them all
my symptoms, the anxiety that breaks on the chest, the fogginess of the mind, all the stuff
that I had suffered for for years. And they don't look at me like I'm crazy. And then all of a
sudden her husband's like, can I see you in the kitchen for a second? And I'm like, yeah, what's
up, man? He's like, I need you to talk to, I need you to talk to my brother, my little brother.
I'm like, what's up? He's like, he's not doing good, bro. He's basically suicidal. He's been
visiting a therapist. They have him on pills and nothing is working. Everything you just mentioned
how you felt, that's how he feels. I'm like, listen, bro, I'm not a priest or an Imam. I don't
even feel quiet. I didn't know if I like this would work. How can I help them? You know what I
mean? I didn't think that this could help or that I would even have the power to do it. I'm not
saying I'm some kind of cure and healer. So please don't flood my inbox, but I can tell people how
to do what I did and it seems to have worked for a few people. So I go and I walk into this guy's
bedroom. He's on this is a 21 year old in his prime. Everything in his life amazing QB for a
huge college. They got money. They live in a man. I mean, everything amazing in their life.
He's on the ground in a fetal position in his room, crying hysterically.
And I'm like, hey, bro, and I won't say his first name. I'm like, yo, what's up, man?
He's like, like this, crying like this. This is exact face looks best. I'm like,
Beck, like, if honestly, man, I don't want to live no more, man. I'm like, damn, this guy's bad,
because, you know, I was in that level, but I was close to what he was going through.
I'm like, what do you feel, man? He's like, I feel fogginess in the mind,
chest and the bricks scared to leave the house, finding everyone close to me,
like just complete chaos in his life. I said, I don't know if this is going to work, bro.
Do you know how to even say these prayers? He goes, no, I said, maybe if I do it,
it might work for you. I don't know. But I recommend you get help from someone that knows how to bless.
I made the water for him. He took the water, bro. Everything went away. He no longer sees a
therapist. He no longer taking. And again, I'm not knocking those. You should always get help and
seek help. And I'm not telling people that are, you know, if you're experiencing any type of
thoughts, please call a professional, call a therapist, like call for help, call 911,
call whoever you got to call if you're feeling like that. But if you're trying to all this other
stuff and it's not working, you may be suffering from a spiritual disease. Everything went away,
bro, for this guy that he was already on fucking pills. And he's already seen a thing and nothing's
working. And he knows it's real. He's watching this. I said, yo, this is crazy. And I believe
that was God showing me that you think is placebo effect. And then guess what happened? I'll
mention another actress. She took ayahuasca. Same thing. She made the water bro the next day.
Some girl from Mexico contacted me two months ago. She's having fucking nightmares. People
see this. They call a sleep paralysis. It's not sleep paralysis. Does sleep paralysis exist? Yes.
But when you see a shadowy figure in your dreams, people have explained the same phenomenon. We
all seem to see the same phenomenon that when we're half asleep or half awake or what they call
sleep paralysis, there's a shadowy figure. We can't see the figure directly. And they kind of have
like this control on us, but we can't move. Because I believe when we're sleeping, we're in that
dimension or other dimensions, that the soul leaves the body during sleep. They say sleep is the
cousin of death. It's why when someone's in such a deep sleep like a REM, because I've seen dreams
that have come true in my life, many of you experienced it. I've seen dreams where someone
dies in less than a couple of days, they die later. But how did that happen? What are the
odds of that? This is my proof to myself is all I need. I don't care what people think.
Evidence that we have a soul in us, bro. That is eternal. That there's a creator who sometimes
even shows us the future, man, because dreaming is one of the parts of being, the powers that human
beings have that sometimes, but there's three types of dreams. And we'll get to that in a second.
Getting back to the point. If you've experienced dreams where you have shadowy figure and you
haunted with nightmares, I would recommend doing this cleanse. If you're drinking alcohol and you're
taking drugs, you are possessible by these beings that I've been talking about this whole episode.
They come into human beings that are dirty, filthy. Their blood is full of alcohol. It
corrupts the soul. It makes you possessible. It makes it easier for them to fuck with you
when you're sleeping or when you're awake, to whisper thoughts into your mind, to create paranoia
and anxiety in the human being. And the only way to cure that if it's not mental or physical
is spiritual, worshiping the creator directly, cleansing with water, baptizing or performing
hoodoo as the Muslims call it, which is a form of baptism where they purify before every prayer.
You've seen it in the movies. That's why they do that. Covering women is not just a form of
oppressing them is to protect them from the evil eye. That's why the Virgin Mary,
PCB upon her is covered just like the Muslim women cover. It's not just to suppress women and make men
not be attracted to them. There's actually the spiritual component which so many people
neglect to talk about. The covering is because when men see these women, they cast an eye upon them
that their beauty, they ever heard the expression, beauty is a curse? That's what it means, bro.
That the transference of the eye occurs because these women are so beautiful. They're so attractive.
Every man that sees them without even, it's not like they're doing it on purpose.
They cast the eye upon these women. I'm in front of a nightclub in New York a couple months ago.
This girl had like 10 million followers all about pictures, putting her ass out, bikini,
this and that. I see her in front of the club. She's crying hysterically. I didn't know she had
this many followers until I spoke to her. So I go see her and she's crying hysterically. I just
want to make sure she was okay and safe. As an alpha male, if there's any left in our fucking country,
if you see a woman crying, make sure she's safe, man. Make sure she's okay because you never know
what's going on out there in the streets. That should be even for a man. There's nothing wrong
with that. You see another human being suffering. Make sure they're safe at first. I mean, yesterday
I saw two people get dumped. The day before I was on the Hudson River, just hanging out at nine
o'clock in the morning, I witnessed two different guys walk their girls down to the water and dump
them on the spot and they're both crying and stuff. I thought so bad. If I get out of the car and be
like, it's going to be okay, like you guys are going to be okay, like fuck those guys. Who knows
if it was even the guy's fault. But I'm just saying like, so if you see someone hurting, man,
it doesn't hurt two seconds to say, hey, are you okay? This is to everyone that's been suffering
from anxieties, what may be a spiritual disease. You've tried therapy. You've tried everything
else and nothing is working. I've had over 50 people that have tried to do what I'm telling you
and it has worked, bro. They no longer suffer from the anxiety. They no longer have nightmares.
They feel a calmness come to them. Pull up on their charged Quran and Bible water on YouTube.
Here's proof scientifically, bro, that this scientist from Japan would freeze water on YouTube.
Yeah, bro. He would freeze the water and the form of the crystals, like you know how they say,
like no snowflakes the same. Yeah. Okay. There you go. What are that? Right? The second one.
Water reacts to the Quran. Watch this. It's everything you wish for. Your side traffic is sky rock.
Also for the Bible.
Scientifically proven, bro.
Japanese scientist Masari Moto discovers the secrets of Zem Zem water. Zem Zem's a fountain
in Saudi Arabia. Science has now revealed new secrets about Zem Zem. Muslims believe that Abraham
was given as a gift. It has now been scientifically proven that water is affected by what is recited
over it. Japanese scientist Masari Moto first began experimenting on water after he had read
that each snowflake falling from the sky is unique. He wanted to disprove this theory as his
scientific instincts told him that this could not be true. The geometric shape of the snowflake is
determined by its chemical composition. The composition of water is well known, two hydrogen
atoms and one oxygen atom. So how can snowflakes that fall from the sky be different from one
another? He said, I was determined to prove that this theory was false. So he built a laboratory
consisting of a deep freezer with a regulator because no liquid subjected to a sudden freezing
can assume a geometric shape. The freezing must be slow, so the atoms have the chance to crystallize
into the shape decreed by God. He set up a deep freezer with a regulator, a cold room at the
temperature of minus seven degrees Celsius and several microscopes equipped with the cameras
so he could photograph a snowflake before it melted. He said, I took samples from two faucets
in the laboratory. I froze them and each sample gave me a different snowflake. The samples came
from two different wells, two different rivers from two different lakes.
A Muslim laid to introduce Dr. Imoto to Zemzam water so he could experiment on it. Imoto took a
sample of Zemzam water and said, I couldn't crystallize it even by diluting the Zemzam
water with distilled water. He finally managed to crystallize the Zemzam water after diluting it
by 1000. One drop of Zemzam mixed with 1000 drops of distilled water and he got a uniquely shaped
crystal. Two crystals were formed, one on top of the other. Mr. Imoto's colleagues said that the
two crystals could be due to the fact that Zemzam water is composed of two words Zem and Zem. Allah
This is not the this is not the exact video by the way you can you can cut it. So
there's other videos that explain whether it's the you know the gospel or even the Quran when
people recite prayers into the water it changes the crystallization when it freezes. So the water
actually does become charged and it can physically manifest you can actually see it under a microscope
that's the video I was trying to find. This is closely related to that but this is not the
exact video that it literally changed the like the like they would do one water they would freeze it
without it without it being like recited upon and then they would take another gallon of water the
same water you know same source of water when they would sing the prayers into the water it would
change the composition of the flakes. So what I'm trying to say is that I would charge this water
make holy water is what we would call it by praying into it by praying into it
and we use this water to cleanse us and all these people I know man they know they're watching some
of them are my followers I'm not something this is not a business I didn't take money for it it's
just knowledge that I shared with them but I'm telling you it saved my life man it saved their
lives wow that these were people that were under you now I know I'm like when when Robin Williams
passed away bro I was so sad I loved him man I thought he was an amazing actor I am telling you
if you are someone that is public and you are not praying and you are not in a condition where you
can be protected even if you pray it can happen to you when you are public you're public if you ever
experience what I'm telling you guys and you've tried therapy and you tried everything else and it
doesn't go away you have a spiritual problem and the only way to purify that is to call upon source
you could take every pill in the world see every shrink in the world they will not heal that's why
these people end up offering themselves bro because years and years and years of living like that why
do you think he needed to take medicine just to go to sleep bro why was he taken basically
anesthesia to go to sleep is the kind of sorrow this guy had the kind of anxiety that he had
so if you're someone that's out there that's suffering from these things first question
I would ask you is are you public do you post are you very beautiful as a woman even if you
don't have a lot of followers because you don't need to be on social media for the evil eye to hit
you it can hit you anywhere and this is in the Quran the Torah the Bible all three faiths speak of
it that amulet is not going to protect you I got a newsflash if you're wearing that blue thing with
the eye you are putting faith into a piece of plastic a piece of wood when you should put your
faith into one that created the heavens and the earth the one that no human can see in the flesh
without the synagogue the most powerful being beyond our comprehension the one that created the
heavens and the earth and all that's in between the one that created the species that people are
calling aliens today and everything that lives but we don't understand because that's why it's
foreign to us and these phenomenon happen and unless you're versed on this or you study this or
you investigate this and these people that take advantage of this shit the soothsayers magicians
some of those magicians bro that are actually doing some of those crazy things you see
are working with that dimension bro when you're looking at some of this magic that they do and
you're sitting there going have the fuck in the millisecond there is nothing under the floor
with a guy cut like how did the hell did they do this and an incident of an eye some of them are
working with that dimension bro hundred percent bro that fortune teller that knows facts about
your life that no one could have known and they didn't google you how could they be so accurate
they're working with that dimension i believe and again i could be wrong and may god forgive me if
i am my theory is the demonic realm will come into this realm the bottomless pit as is explained in
christianity we're gonna see phenomenon humanity will be under attack by an alien force but it's
not aliens it's a demonic force to convince you that you were not created by god but you were
created by aliens and that's the agenda i believe one of the agendas that will manifest
towards the end of time i believe there's only one god the god of adam abraham noa moses jesus
jacob and the prophet muhammad for me personally all i tell people is do your homework study some
of the things i spoke about today i'll the evil eye thing hundred percent not making any of that up
do your homework on it you don't need to go to all these weird people to take it off of you
killing chickens and all that weird shit because sometimes when people want to get the evil eye
off of them they'll go and do these rituals that are satanic and are pagan and are whatever
and then those species are like good we'll stop bothering them because we let them astray they're
worshiping things and praying the things they shouldn't have prayed to right their whole game
is to take us away from source take us away from god make him look foolish for creating us that's
how much they hate us the bad ones of them right so when people take ayahuasca i'm telling you right
now you're fucking with the demonic realm you better be careful bro and when you're doing all these
weird things to take this shit off of you all you're some coming to is associating with god that
which has no right to be associated you are playing into worshiping amulets and the evil eye
symbol that everyone uses and praying to statues and things when god told us on the 10 commandments
and i don't care if you're a muslim jew or christian you should worship god and god alone
you should not pray to statues or figures or anything except source which is god
and a lot of the problems we have in the world is because we have gone astray we follow our own
desires we're telling the one that made us we're smarter than you we're going to do it our way
and look at where the fuck we are now bro with that said i think this is a good place to stop on
this i think your guests are probably like this guy's fucking out of his mind we could probably
go on another 10 hours about all the other shit but any questions from you you're dropping bombs
man you think i'm out of my fucking mind he's out just he's gonna contact us you might be a
little bit out of your mind but i think it's i don't think it's a bad thing doesn't be like
this is the last time we're having back lover hell no man dude i love every time you come on
here you're you're always dropping crazy knowledge that i never knew i never you think the evil eyes
will um i don't know would you consider yourself a christian um you brought up i'm not super religious
or more traditionalist like just celebrate the holidays get the tree get the gifts yeah i don't
know did you ever delve into any of this stuff i've never delved really deep into religion
you know i've read i've read a lot about it i've listened to a lot of stuff about it i've talked to
a lot of people who have studied a lot of religion but i've never really considered myself super
religious i think that you know it's something that happens to people when they get older when
they get closer to death they start to really accept religion into their lives and accept some of
these ideas um because you know i'm not close because they're getting closer to a point that
they can't deny anymore i'm about to die now all of a sudden you're worried so like one of the
interesting things in islam for example is that it says that like once you're on your deathbed you
can't repent which is different from christianity because as long as you say you know so these are
like some of the differences but that doesn't mean that a christian and a muslim should
should fucking hate each other like i don't understand like neither doctrine allows for that
it always has to come from a place of compassion like if you truly believe what you believe is
the truth you should feel bad for those people i definitely think you're onto something though
with the spiritual sickness i think there definitely is something to that well that's
why they do what they do they have to bring that this is where like a lot of these things overlap
remember i said like the mosaic mm-hmm so many people have like a couple of the tiles some people
have half the tiles which is a lot most people don't even have one tile in the mosaic to understand
the world that we live in right now right they don't know of these characters that influenced our
lives beyond measure mm-hmm people like allister crowley people like walt disney people like
ron harbert people like jack parsons the origins of hollywood how everything came the rituals they
did this shit is still going on go put on the rap videos go look at um what's her face the pop star
um katie perry who was a gospel singer bro who even says in home should i sold my soul to the
devil she makes a song called the dark horse which is definitely worshiping the devil in that video
she shows a man wearing an eyepatch one eye that's the symbol of the antichrist in islam
he's wearing a chain that says alan arabic this character in her music video you can pull it up
and then this guy goes up to katie perry katie perry embodies faro faro remembers the character
faro faro's the character that said he's yes we'll get copyright who said that he's god okay
and in the original version of this video the guy is wearing a chain that says ala
which means god in all three languages i showed you how in the last episode go watch the last
episode folks and she zaps him with magic and disintegrates the guy wearing alan his necklace
which means god in arabic ilan hebrew right allaha in armaic the language of christ so she zaps
this guy she's embodying faro who says i am god in the human form and destroys this man who's wearing
that chain someone caught on to it they made a big thing there was a big uproar in the muslim world
and then she edited it out of the video really okay that's the history of dark horse i'm coming at
you like a dark horse because they shape shift they love reptilian that's where the reptilian
shit comes from yeah the prophet muhammad said if you ever enter a home and you see a snake inside
your house before you kill the snake you know like to get it out open the door of the house
and warn the snake three times if you don't leave i'm gonna kill you if you don't leave
i'm gonna kill you if you don't leave i'm gonna kill you because it could be a jinn that is in
that snake they shape shift this goes back to the whole alien thing you understand yeah but she's
singing about that and in the video you see shape shifting you see her zap the guy with
magic she's singing about magic we know that magic is forbidden in the abrahamic fates during
babelan god sent two angels to test humanity and they taught man at the price of selling the
hereafter because he says we taught man that which they should not learn but if they were willing to
trade their eternity for it they were given knowledge that could be used to cause divorce and
do all kinds of other crazy shit and the occult is all about that bro it goes back to the time of
salomon he found out what was going on they were making manuscripts he rounded up all the manuscripts
and supposedly legend has it he buried under what is today the temple mount and when the knights of
templar came supposedly they found those manuscripts which gave him the knowledge that they have to
create everything that we have today the banking system everything came from that supposedly again
this is again what i'm studying and what people believe scholars of history and theology right
but it all goes back to salomon bro peace be upon him one of the most important prophets that ever
live he had dominion over the dimension of light and the dimension of darkness if you're suffering
from the things i explained research the evil eye all you need is water that is charged with the
words of god to cleanse yourself make intention pray to god directly you can remove it from you
by his grace this shit that goes on that most of us don't understand haunted houses this that
there is another world that is alive on this planet in a different dimension i believe human
beings have gotten to the point where not only do they work with them they worship these beings
i believe the ancient egyptians used to worship them that's maybe how they built those pyramids
salomon used them and i believe that they figured a way to come into this dimension and they still
have their powers when they do so you're going to see aliens folks but it ain't aliens as demons
here to convince you that god doesn't exist if we see them we might not but if that happens
i promise you it ain't the aliens you're seeing in movies we'll see we'll see if this podcast
stands to test the time hopefully uh we'll learn something soon hopefully we'll both that's what
the guy's saying in uh that grush guy he's saying that there's uh there's bodies that that are
recovered by the government with these crafts that they're finding hopefully i wonder what those
bodies are hopefully we're not in orange jumpsuits man you and uh chained beck thank you so much man
you're you're always blowing my fucking mind with this shit um tell people where they could follow
you where they can listen to your podcast a lot stuff your podcast is fucking amazing by the way
especially i was telling you this morning i i love your podcast with eric zulliger that was a
seriously that was incredible man i try to i try to be like you man you've done like you're doing
what i what i hope to get to but i think i'm going a little bit more like just general conversations
now i am bringing in guests i uh rebranded just the beck lover the beck lover podcast it was beck
lover and the comeback team but if they just type in b like boy e like edward k like kimberley beck
lover it all pops up beck lover dot com if you want to watch my episodes on youtube or any you
know platform you can download a podcast on but i am going to start doing a lot more of this stuff
and uh talking about current events and not just interviews because i think you know then i think
people like you really need to just like we have such interesting perspectives you're phenomenal
the way you you know you've read a lot i can tell bro like you read all kinds of stuff which is
amazing which makes you a really great host like i've told you i've been hosting a lot of shows and
i you're definitely my favorite bro appreciate you let me talk which i've been guilty of my
people want to kill me like shut the fuck up let the guests talk like you're phenomenal at that
and you don't disrupt because i've learned what time to like let let the the discourse go let let
the guests because you don't know where it's going to go and you might fuck it up at the right
you know at the wrong moment right but yeah man i'm wishing you great luck to danny jones podcast
concrete you've done phenomenal work thank you for letting me come on here we broke the internet
last time bro and i hope that if anything comes out of this episode people just maybe get something
that they didn't know or maybe can look into something that really has impacted our world
whether you believe in god or not these guys are saying they believe in other beings right
these guys influence people that make policies some of the heads of the military were under
these guys go read about our circle yeah yeah yeah because beck lover says that i don't know if that's
the camera we are the aliens you heard it here folks get your sage get your dream catchers get your
fucking holy water good night folks
