The first time I learned about you was when I was watching a John Mack documentary.
Oh, far out.
Yeah.
And you were talking about John and you said you had a lot of interesting things to say
and I thought that you would be a fascinating person to talk to, so I'm glad you're finally
here.
Yeah, I've gotten only more fascinating sense than when Lou Elizondo retained me and then
we get to do the help with the legislation and things are really hot right now.
Things are very hot right now and you're being very outspoken.
Why have you all of a sudden decided to start doing podcasts?
Well, because once we got the attention of Congress, you know, that the Congress pays
attention to people around the country when they start knowing about stuff.
And so our people now, we've put together the New Paradigm Institute to actually mobilize
people to educate people to get them past this supposition that, well, somebody says
they're there.
You can't really tell.
They don't ever have any real pictures of them.
You know, they got buzzed over the December 2017 videos, you know, that Lou Elizondo and
Chris Mellon brought to the New York Times and they're going, whoa, okay, then they've
seen those a hundred times.
You know, but the fact is there's a lot more, a lot more information.
And first-hand witnesses that are extraordinarily credible, they're deep insiders that have
been coming to the Senate Intelligence Committee now and testifying under oath, you know, and
giving them a documented proof and other references to corroborate what they're saying.
I mean, you know, it's rolling right now.
And so we all, the people put together the Senate Intelligence Committee and the Senate
Armed Services Committee staff, you know, Armed Services Committee under Jack Reid and
the Intelligence Committee on the Senate side, you know, under Mark Warner, who's the chairman,
and also Mark Rubio, Mark O'Rubio, you know, they've all been on board this thing and they
crafted this 64-page bill.
It was just like comprehensive in how we would go about undertaking a really responsible,
measured, controlled disclosure of all of this information, giving the president ultimate
authority to recommend that a certain piece be, if he had said one piece of information
to be postponed from immediate public release, but he has to give reasons.
And he has to have a written report on why he's doing that, and there can be a classified
portion of it that he can provide to the Intelligence Committee, but there also has to be a public
document acknowledging that he's withheld a particular piece of information and explain
why he's doing it.
So it was a really comprehensive bill that was put together by people who were definitely
in favor of disclosing virtually everything that's more than 25 years old, which is the
kind of a standard rule for even intelligence information, as long as you don't disclose
anybody's particular identity, et cetera.
You know, but so we got into the bill that presumably everything that's 25 years old
or more, going all the way back to January of 1945, has to be revealed to the public.
And we set up a time schedule for it.
You know, they got 300 days to gather everything all together and put it into digital form
with an outline and have it be retrievable, computer retrievable, and then they had to
turn it over to the National Archives, and then the National Archives was directed by
Congress to, within 180 days, release it all to the public, you know, unless the President
personally intervened and made a provision for a particular piece of information to be
postponed.
It was really comprehensive and there was a nine-person board that was put together to
review all this, permanently with staff, had a $20 million budget, you know, to put together
all the information and to comb through it.
And we were one of the groups that was to nominate people to that board, that our New
Paradigm Institute was the citizens group that was to be nominating people for the president,
to appoint to this board.
And you know, it was the Majority and Minority Leader of the Senate, the Majority and Minority
Leader of the House of Representatives, the Secretary of Defense, the head of the National
Archives, and us as the citizens group that we were referred to as the UAP Disclosure
Foundation.
That's one of our domains.
But it's the New Paradigm Institute that's set up as a 501C3, it's a wholly integrated
project of our 40-year 501C3, you know, that did the Iran-Contra case, that did the Karen
Silkwood case, you know, that I did the Pentagon Papers case for the New York Times, all that
stuff.
Hey guys, I want to ask you a quick favor.
Over the last few months, almost 70% of the viewers of this podcast are not subscribed
to the channel.
The most important common denominator that allows me to keep creating these podcasts
every single week is you hitting that subscribe button below the videos.
I want to thank every single one of you who watches and supports these podcasts.
I would not be able to do it without you.
Please hit that subscribe button if you enjoy it, now back to the show.
You know, we did all that through the 501C3, and so we've set up a full project under our
501C3 tax exempt organization to act as the citizen's watchdog on this process.
So that we're in Washington, D.C., we're the only civilian office right within the federal
enclave on Capitol Hill with all the Senate and House buildings in the United States Supreme
Court and the Congress building, we're right there.
So we can have regular meetings with the staff, we have lunch with the staff and are going
through the details of what was in the bill and when it went over to the House side.
We knew, for example, that there was a 17-0 vote in favor of the 64-page bill in the Senate
Intelligence Committee, all eight Republican senators, all nine Democratic senators.
We had all the major heads of all the committees in charge of it, and it passed overwhelmingly
in the Senate, and we sent it over to the House side, and it had of the 435 members,
you know, like 420 of them, you know, were instantaneously supportive of the whole 64-page
bill, and it was actually called the UFO Controlled Disclosure Campaign Plan.
I mean, it was a full-scale mandate from Congress that there be a plan put in place
to disclose all of this information, and it had a seven-year period that was covered,
so that we had a seven-year period within which to disclose all of it, but there was
a 300-day period that they had to gather up all of the information that's 25 years old
or more and get it made public.
Now that's a huge thing, because actually from the date of the enactment, which was
December 22nd of last year, of 2023, that would have fallen on October 18th of 2024,
right this year, like two weeks before the election.
Oh, that's perfect timing.
Yeah, I mean, it was just that we had it all set up, so that this information is coming
forward so that people will have it, you know, in helping to make their decisions as to who
ought to be their senators, who ought to be their president and vice president, et cetera.
This is an extraordinary event.
I mean, when you have, when you have, and everybody knows now about Colonel Grush, you know, testifying
in the House Oversight Committee under oath that we are in possession of a non-human extraterrestrial
spacecraft, you know, and the bodies that are non-human, the DNA tests have shown that
they're non-human, you know, that's a big story.
The DNA tests have shown, but have we seen any DNA tests?
They've got them.
The Senate Intelligence Committee's got it.
So with Grush, how many total witnesses did he bring forward?
There are 40 of them.
40.
So I was just talking to my friend Jeremy Riss on, we do a little Patreon appreciation
before this, and I was asking him, because he's a historian in the UFO thing.
I know Jeremy.
You know Jeremy?
He's a great guy.
He was talking about, I was asking him about you.
And he had a great way, a great question, I'm going to try to, I'm going to botch this,
but he basically said, Danny Sheehan's a Harvard lawyer.
Ask him this, if I broke into, or if anyone broke into anybody's house, if I broke into
your house, right, and there were two witnesses that were neighbors, and they both said they
saw you, saw me breaking into your house, you would go to jail, right?
No, I wouldn't go to jail.
You go to jail.
I would go to jail, right?
I own the house.
You'd go to jail.
Right.
So whoever broke in would go to jail based on those two witnesses who saw you breaking
into the house.
If the jury believed the two witnesses.
So we have 40 witnesses with this whole UFO dog and pony show.
And is the issue that the jury doesn't believe the witnesses?
No, it's that the jury has been the Senate Intelligence Committee, and they do believe
them.
That's the whole point.
That's why they passed this law, you know, saying, okay, now it's time to have a full
disclosure of this information to the American people so that we can formulate what to do
about all this.
So why can't we get based on those 40 whistleblowers or witnesses, why can't we get a search warrant
of the blue room at Wright Patterson Air Force Base or Patel Memorial Institute?
That's basically what this statute was.
This statute was basically a search warrant that was issued by the Senate Intelligence
Committee ratified by the United States Senate, saying that there is subpoena power that they
have, that they're commanding them to turn over the information to the Senate Intelligence
Committee and specifically to the National Archives.
Okay.
So they're ordered to cough it up.
And if they don't cough it up, there is subpoena power.
And they have the power to subpoena them, to make them cough it up.
And they have the power to undertake sworn depositions so they can subpoena people to
come to depositions and interrogate them under oath, subject to perjury charges against them.
If they try to pretend they don't have the information or their dog ate the homework.
Whatever they want to come up with for their lame excuses as to why they haven't produced
it.
And they, very importantly, had the power of eminent domain, which was to actually seize
order the seizure of the crafts to take them back into the possession of the United States
government.
Right.
Or any material.
Any biologics or anything.
They had the power of eminent domain to take them back.
So this was a real search warrant, subpoena, that was issued by Congress basically to
take this stuff into possession for the Congress.
Because it's an absolute violation of the Constitution to deprive the Congress of the
United States, which is actually the fundamental government, the elected government of the
United States.
The other people are appointed.
These are employees, the people in the defense department, you know, they're not elected
by anybody.
Right.
You know?
And so that they don't have the authority.
You know, the president has the authority and under the statute, the president had the
authority to review this because we've discovered that a number of the presidents were not briefed
in on this.
Even when they tried to get it, they were, that's how I got started in this whole thing
back in 1977.
Jimmy Carter got elected in November of 1976, November 4th.
On November 19th, he sent the message to the CIA director and ordered him to come down
to Plains, Georgia to his home.
Was that Bush?
That was George Bush Sr. and ordered him to come down and demanded that he turn over
the information to him about UFOs and what connection they had to extraterrestrial life.
George Bush refused to give it to him and said he didn't have a need to know.
And so what President Carter did is he went to the Congress and got the House Science
and Technology Committee to issue a directive to the Congressional Research Service to gather
all the information together and provide it to the president.
And that's when I got called.
I was at the Jesuit headquarters at the time and I got contacted by Dr. Marcia Smith who
was the head of the Science and Technology Division of the Congressional Research Service
of the Library of Congress.
And she called me and asked me if I would be special counsel to the investigation, the
research, initially to see if we could get the Vatican, because I was at Jesuit headquarters,
to see if we could get the Vatican to agree to allow us to have access to the archives
of whatever information they had on UFOs and the ET phenomena.
And so that's how I got involved in it back in the early spring of 1977.
What made you guys want to go to the Vatican?
Well, they wanted to go to the Vatican because they thought that given the fact that there's
2,000 years almost of records that have been kept there, they thought that they suspected
that there may be information in the Vatican archives about the issue of UFOs or extraterrestrial
intelligence, mainly because the Vatican was for many centuries one of the primary sources
of intelligence gathering.
For the Roman Pontiffs, they had intelligence services, which were primarily Jesuit, actually,
since 1547.
Yeah.
It's wild.
The Vatican has a space observatory.
A lot of people don't know that.
Yeah, they do.
It's a Pontifical Observatory at Castle Gondolfo, just outside of Rome.
So what did they say to you when you asked them for access to the archives?
They said no.
They just said no.
Yeah, they said no.
So I sent them a second letter saying, let me make clear, this is Jesuit headquarters
in Washington, D.C., we're contacting you as the largest order in the Catholic Church.
We've been contacted by a person who's been designated by the president to get this information
and we'd like to have the information.
And they just said no.
We couldn't have it.
And so I contacted Dr. Marcia Smith and told her that they were not willing to give it
to us.
And then she asked me if I would go and brief the top 50 scientists at SETI out at the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory, JPL out in Pasadena, if I would go and brief them on the theological
implications of contact with an extraterrestrial civilization, which I did.
And I got clearance from the Jesuit order to do that.
And so then I was, we went to the National Council of Churches and met with the leaders
of the 54 major religious denominations in the United States and proposed to them from
Jesuit headquarters that they agreed to set up a task force to look into this to get out
ahead of the power curve so that we wouldn't have another Copernicus and Galileo kind
of a fit of people freaking out and thinking that somehow science was somehow going to
be contradicting basic theological tenets.
So we said, look, we ought to get busy on this.
And then the National Council of Churches didn't want to do it.
So that was what we were doing there at the headquarters.
And then I was contacted later after that by Dr. John Mack to represent him.
What year were you contacted by him?
1994.
I was contacted in 1994 by John Mack to represent him at Harvard because I'd graduated from
the college in the law school and had gone to do my master's and PhD work at Harvard.
And so he figured that we'd kind of wave the school tie at them and get them to lay off
him.
So that's the next kind of major event that I was engaged in.
And John and I had gone to see Lawrence Rockefeller, and Rockefeller had agreed to finance an entire
grand rounds at Harvard to present all the information and evidence to them.
And so I was actually in the position of interviewing virtually everybody in the field on behalf
of Dr. John Mack to prepare them as witnesses to be part of this grand rounds at Harvard
in 1994.
So you interviewed the people that were in his abduction book, the people that-
Well, I met some of those people, but I also interviewed all the major researchers.
I got to meet Stanton Friedman, I got to meet Bud Hopkins, I got to meet David Jacobs,
I got to meet virtually everybody.
I got to meet Stephen Greer, I got to meet Linda Moltenhau, I got to meet all the folks
that were researchers, and then I got to meet all kinds of the direct experiencers because
I also became legal counsel for the Project for Extraordinary Experience research.
That's the peer group that John Mack put together in Cambridge.
So I got to meet the people in that context.
And so that's why Stephen Greer ended up asking me in 2001 to be legal counsel for the Disclosure
Project, and I was legal counsel for the Disclosure Project for 20 years.
So I got to meet a lot more people in vetting the witnesses that we were going to present
at the National Press Club in 2001.
Yeah, so going back to John Mack, when he first reached out to you, what was-
He wanted you to represent him for the stuff that Harvard was coming down on him for,
for the research that he was doing.
That's right.
What did you guys end up doing when you first met with him, and how did you approach that case with him?
Well, it was interesting.
I got, you know, I actually got contacted initially by Ron Robertson.
Ron Robertson is John Mack's best friend.
He was his best man for him in Sally at their wedding and everything.
And he was out in Santa Barbara, and I was teaching at the University of California at Santa Barbara.
And Ron Robertson contacted me.
He was the head of the art department at the Santa Barbara City College,
and he had come to a number of my lectures on the Ron Contra case and the Karen Silkwood case,
and through my Island case and other cases that we had done.
And so he was kind of a follower of the Christic Institute at the time.
So he called me and asked me to come and see him, and then asked me, you know,
what I thought about the UFO issue.
And I told him I thought it was extraordinarily important.
It was probably one of the most important public policy issues that one could be involved in.
And he said, oh, well, look, I should tell you that my best friend, John Mack,
has just been dragged up in front of this kind of tribunal at Harvard University that's completely
secret right now, but that they're excoriating him for having written this book about his interviews
with people who held sincere beliefs that they'd had direct contact with extraterrestrial
spacecraft, et cetera.
And I said, would you be willing to take a call from John and consider representing him?
And I said, yes, absolutely.
So John called me, had me fly to Cambridge, and we sat down to talk about this.
And we looked into it, and this was not an AAUP panel.
It was not an association of American university professors authorized panel of any kind.
It was just this kind of rump gathering that they'd put together.
And then I found out that what had happened is that the United States Air Force
and the Defense Department and the Central Intelligence Agency have been engaged for decades
in a covert program of trying to smear people inside the military or inside government offices
who tried to actually do anything about the UFO issue.
And what had happened is that one of the first things they would do if a high-ranking officer
insisted upon filing an official UFO report, one of the first things they would do is order
him to go get a psychiatric exam, which is not a career builder in the military.
And so that a few of these guys who would actually pushed all the way through and
insisted upon filing an official report, for example, Arnie Arnelson,
Colonel Arnelson was the commander at the Malistram Air Force Base in Montana back in 1968,
when the UFO came up over the Minuteman site and shut off all 10 of the Minuteman missiles.
And Arnie Arnelson was the guy that called NORAD about it and said,
you know, that we've got this, the craft of some sort that's come up over our site
and has closed off all of our missiles. And they said, are you trying to file a UFO report?
And he said, yes, yes, I am. And they said, well, that's interesting,
because both the Minuteman site to your west and to your east have both reported the same thing.
They've had their missiles shut off too, which people don't know about, don't talk about.
But I talked to Colonel Arnelson, but it was fellows like that who insisted upon going forward
that would be ordered to get a psychiatric exam. And so a number of them had been sent to Harvard,
medical school to get this kind of top level psychiatric exam. And John Mack,
being the chairman of the department, was actually tasked to do that. So he did that.
And he says, he told me later, he said, you know, I did all the interviews with them and did all
the tests. This wasn't by choice. No, no, no, no, they were ordered to do it. And so when John said,
I mean, I mean him, but it wasn't his choice to interview these people. Well, no, they were,
they were sent there to be tested. And my guess is that he as the chairman of the department
had some discretion in who would be assigned to actually do the exams. And so he chose to do those.
Do you know if before he started interviewing these people, these military people,
if he had any sort of interest in this topic? No, no, he did not. He did not. He had no,
he assumed it was all nutty, actually. And he actually suspected that these guys had
something wrong with them. And he did the interviews. And then he said, you know,
but each one of them tested out to be within the normal parameters of normalcy. And yet they
had this story that they kept insisting upon going forward with. And they felt compelled to talk about
it and were ordered to be silent about it. And so he, he actually called his mother, John. John
who was like, I don't know, probably 60 years old at that time, he called his mother who was like 90
years old and tells her about this. And she said, Oh, well, you should, you should go see the Hopkins
boy. You know, they were the family friends, the, the, the Mac family were family friends with the,
with the Hopkins family. And she said, the Hopkins boy has been interviewing a lot of people who
believe that they've seen these UFOs or had direct contact with the pilots or the occupants.
And so he ended up calling bud Hopkins and getting to talk to bud and bud sent some other people to
it, you know, police officers and, you know, teachers and lawyers and librarians, people who
were in kind of positions in the community that it would not have been in their interest to make
up something like that. And so he started interviewing them. And as he started interviewing them,
he got so fascinated by, by the stories that he began actually conducting like an investigation.
What he would do is he never hypnotized, John never hypnotized anybody. He didn't want to do that
because he never did. No, he did not. What he, what he does is he did a thing called holotropic
breathing. Holotropic breathing was a method that was developed by Stanislav Graf to actually
get people super relaxed. And they would do like, it's sort of like Hindu breathing through the
different nose things. And they would, they would get into a kind of an elevated state of
consciousness and get very, very relaxed. And that was the key for them to remember things,
that any kind of anxiety that they had that was blocking any of their memory.
So he would do the holotropic breathing and interview the people. And what he would do,
what, what he would do is he, he would actually start asking them kind of ancillary questions.
You know, they would tell what was happening. They say, okay, now are you, you're, you're wearing?
They say, well, I'm inside some kind of a room, you know, I'm on this table. And I'm getting
examined. And he said, now, will you look around a little bit? Tell us, do you, what do you see?
And then he would have them describe like the equipment in the room, what type of equipment do
you see, you know, what does it look like? And he would get like details of some of the stuff
that they were seeing. So that when he had another person who was in a similar situation,
he would ask them things that nobody would have ever asked him about. But like particular little
details about what was happening. And it started being correlating. And so he started to suspect
that this was something that, that was extraordinarily strange, because it seemed like it, it was real,
what was happening to them. And so he wrote an article, he wrote an article for the New
England Journal of Medicine. How many people had stories that were very similar that like, and
what kind of objects did they talk about seeing? They would talk about some of the instruments,
for example, that were being used to examine them. They would, he would ask them to describe in
detail what the instruments looked like. Was there any kind of equipment in the room,
you know, what, what kind, did you see any kind of navigation equipment in there, any kind of,
you know, computers, what did you see, you know, and they would describe in some detail some of
the stuff that they were seeing. I had a guy on here named Randall Nickerson. Yeah, Randy,
you know, Nickerson. He explained to me something about some sort of like, like pole or stick.
Yeah, yeah. It was a rod. A rod. There's a rod. There's a rod that a number of them reported
having them. It was usually the tall, tall grays, they call them, that had this rod and that they
would, they would, it seemed to actually give them control over people. Actually, it was like,
it seemed to like amp up kind of their telepathic capacities, which were quite considerable to
begin with. But it was like that. So John, so John ended up sending the, sending in this,
this report that he did it for an article for the New England Journal of Medicine.
And after several days, it got sent back to him with a note saying they weren't going to publish
this. Well, he was kind of taken aback by this. You know, he's the chairman of the department
clinical psychiatry, Harvard Medical School. This is a very professional piece. So he decided
what he would do is he would, would beef it up. He would put in more footnotes and more
details of the stuff that would make it really full scale professional. And then he sent it back
to him. And within two days, the executive assistant for Arnold Relman, who was the head of the,
who was the editor in chief of the New England Journal of Medicine, sent his executive assistant
back to Harvard to go into the office of John and hand it back to him and to tell him to note
that it had not been opened. And they weren't going to open it and they weren't going to even
consider publishing it. And John got upset about it. And so John called a publisher. He'd won the
Pulitzer Prize already. Right. For Lawrence of Arabia. Lawrence of Arabia, the T.E. Lawrence thing,
the psychobiography. And so he contacted a publisher and the publisher agreed to write it,
print it. And it was published. And then like within a couple of days of it hitting the stands,
the dean of the medical school came in and said, John, I hear that you've published a new book.
And he said, yes, he said, well, this is a very interesting topic. Why don't you,
why don't you come by? And let's talk about this. It's very interesting. And then he said,
look, in as long as you and I are going to be talking about it, why don't we invite some of
the other faculty people to come on over who might be interested in this. So John was excited about
this. John thought that was a cool idea. So he was going to, he went to the where the assigned
place was to go and meet the dean. And he comes into the room and here's this tribunal sitting
there. That there is not only the dean himself, but it turns out that Arnold Relman, the editor
in chief of the New England Journal of Medicine, was chairing the committee. And then there was the
legal counsel for Harvard University sitting there. And then there were three other professors,
all of whom John thought were people who really didn't like him for some reason in the faculty.
He had some experiences with them. And they were all there. And they began to excoriate him
for besmirching the name of Harvard University, you know, writing about this ridiculous thing
that it was clear that these people were mentally ill, you know, and that if he had written an article,
you know, about this weird mental illness, then that would have been okay. But he seemed to give
the impression that he was attributing some sort of dimension of reality to this whole experience.
And so he was taken completely aback by what they were doing. So he called his mother again.
And his mother said, well, why don't you just go to the family lawyer? You know,
they were a fairly wealthy family. And, you know, and his father was a doctor and his
grandfather was a doctor. They were kind of a wealthy family. And so he goes to the local
lawyer in Boston, the family lawyer, and the lawyer says, oh, just give them anything they want.
You know, if they want the recordings of your sessions, did you bill them? Did they
get insurance? Were you were you doing this as a clinical treatment to them? Or were you
doing research? You know, just tell them whatever they want to know. And he was kind of surprised.
He said he wasn't expecting that kind of advice. And then he checked and found out that the lawyer,
the law firm, Ropes and Gray, was the lawyer for Harvard University.
Oh, no. And he felt betrayed by the whole thing.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Bubs. I've recently gotten into
collagen supplementation, because after the age of 25, your natural collagen production
dramatically drops off, which severely impacts your skin. By supplementing with collagen,
you're actually increasing your body's natural production of collagen. This increases your
skin health, your skin elasticity, which improves the overall quality of your skin.
Secondly, if you're someone who's into lifting heavy weights, collagen is one of the major
building blocks to joint and connective tissues. Collagen protein can help reduce joint inflammation
and improve joint function. And finally, collagen is amazing for your hair growth,
because it increases the production of keratin, helping to promote stronger, healthier hair.
Bubs is a tribute company to Glenn Bubs-Dority, who was a Navy SEAL and CIA contractor who
died defending American freedom in Benghazi, Libya. Plain and simple,
Bubs makes the stuff to help you get after it, with nature-derived nutrition to help give you
that edge on life's adventures. Bubs collagen peptide packets are easy to use as a daily
supplement. It's flavorless, easy to mix nature, makes it easy to mix in anything. I like mixing
it in coffee. Check out Bubs today by visiting BubsNaturals.com and using my promo code DJP
for 20% off your first order. That's BubsNaturals.com promo code DJP. It's linked below. Now back to the
show. And so he called his best friend, Ron Robertson, who called you, who ended up calling me.
Say, why don't we get Danny and see if he's interested in helping you on this? And John said,
oh, no, no. He did like the Ron Contra case and the big silk, he's done all those other big cases.
He probably wouldn't even be interested in this subject. Is that's why Ron Robertson called me,
asked me to come to dinner and asked me, what do you think about this? And so that's how I got
to be on the case. So I go with John to the next session of the tribunal and we come in,
we sit down, right? And there's Relman up there with all the dean of the medical school
and the lawyer and all these guys. And so Relman just starts in trying to interrogate him.
And so I said, excuse me, I said, excuse me here, you know, I don't know, I didn't do the potted
plant routine that I'm not just a potted plant. So, you know, I said, you know, look, I said,
look, I don't know what the nature of this, this tribunal is, it's certainly not an AUP
convened tribunal. I said, but whatever the nature of it is, can you tell me, you know,
are any of the, either one of the two following fact questions going to be at issue here?
Number one, whether or not extraterrestrial life exists. And secondly, whether at least some of
these sightings of the UFOs might actually be a vehicle from an extraterrestrial civilization.
And Relman says, well, the two of them are actually literally going to be relevant. He said,
and it's totally ridiculous to think that either one of those things could be true.
That's what he says to me. You know, 1994 Harvard University still says it's completely
ridiculous to think that there would be life anywhere else in the universe. I mean, that's
where they were. So I said to him, well, I said, in that case, you know, in the spirit of cooperation,
let's just tell me, who is it that called the dean? And there was this big dead silence
over the room. And he looked around like this. And the lawyer for Harvard University looks at him
and goes like that. Shakespeare had no, and he says, well, I'm sorry, we're not, we're not at
liberty to discuss that. And I said, Oh, okay. I said, well, look, in the spirit of cooperation
here, you say they ask a bunch of questions, and he wasn't really able to, to answer the question.
So what were the questions? Another big long pause. He looked at the lawyer, the lawyer sugar
had no, he said, I'm sorry, we're not at liberty to discuss that. So I said, all right, well,
then look, let me just tell you in the spirit of openness that, that John and I have just spent the
weekend with Lawrence Rockefeller, and he's agreed to finance a complete grand rounds here on this
subject at Harvard University, that we'll bring in the chief investigator for the Federal Aviation
Agency will bring in military personnel will bring in police officers and things that filed
these reports in the lawyer for Harvard University just leaped to her feet. And she said, absolutely
not. She said, we're not going to allow this procedure to be turned into some kind of a circus,
she said. And so I said, well, I said, you know, we've made the offer, you know, we're perfectly
willing to answer your questions and stuff, but we're going to present the witnesses to support
these two fact questions that you think are at issue here. And so if we're ready to proceed,
they said, no, we're not going to do any of that. So I said to John, that's it, John, we're out of
here. You know, this is not an official tribunal of any kind, you don't have to be here. So I reached
down and kind of help pick him up out of the chair and walked out on him. You know, and so I went
around doing all the interviews of all of these people that we could present, we just kept going
straightforward saying, you know, I kept saying, this is a great opportunity, you know, to present
to Harvard University what the evidence is and the information is that we have. And so I had to
have a local council because I was admitted in the Southern District of New York and in Washington,
D.C., but I wasn't admitted in Massachusetts. So I went to I went to Dershowitz, Al Dershowitz,
who was one of my professors at Harvard, and said, because I had the course with him on
the psychiatry and the law. He and Stone, Professor Alan Stone. So I'd taken a year course in that
at Harvard. And so I went to see him and I said, you know, who should we have to be just local
council for me here? So he recommended Harvey Silverglate. Harvey was in the middle of a trial
and he couldn't do it. So he recommends this young guy, Eric McLeish, who had just gotten into the
bar in Massachusetts. And so he could just, you know, be there to be local council. So we brought
him on board. And then he right away started working to try to figure out how to settle the case.
To say, well, okay, why don't we just do whatever they tell you to do? Why don't you just, you know,
and I said, no, stop it, you know, we're not going to do that. We're not going to turn over all the
tape recordings of these things to them. I said, you know, that we're going to do the grand rounds.
So he kept on figuring out how to solve this thing and settle it and make him leave him alone.
And John's wife was upset. Sally was really upset because he was being ostracized, you know, at
Harvard, he wasn't invited to any of the social events anymore. And she wasn't getting invited
to any of the women's things. And so she was getting really upset about what was happening to him.
And it was all secret, you know, because they kept saying, you know, we want this kept secret
that we're doing this hearing. I kept saying to myself, why the hell should we keep this secret?
This is ridiculous. They don't have any right to be doing this. But so what I was doing is I was
respecting John's wish to keep it secret. So what I did is I was reaching out to all these different
potential witnesses to come in and start preparing. And one of the people that we reached out to
that had been in the University of Colorado, because they were very, very familiar with the
Condon Report that came out of the University of Colorado years earlier. And so, and he got
terribly upset that this was going on. And he called the newspaper and told him that this was
happening. Condon? No, no, no, this, it was this other guy. It was a professor there that just
knew all about the Condon Report. I understand. And so I was going to have him testify all about it,
you know. And so he told somebody about it. And so they threw a big fit, you know, the committee
threw a big fit over the fact that it had been made public. And so that this fellow, Eric McLeish,
kept getting in there, trying to get it settled. And it turns out Eric McLeish is later on,
after they stopped and left John alone, I was the one that initiated the first litigation
against the Catholic Church for the pedophile priests in Boston. And I got a hold of Eric
McLeish to do the case for us, right? And he ended up starting settling all these cases.
He was the guy in Spotlight, the movie Spotlight that Rufalo, Mark Rufalo was in,
where they told all about the Boston Globe and the investigation they conducted about all the
priests. And they discovered that this guy, Eric McLeish, was the guy settling all the cases
for the Catholic Church and getting a huge portion of the settlement that was given to the people,
but making them sign statements that they would keep completely secret. Any of the accusations
they made against the Church, which totally pissed me off. So was he working as a double agent
with the Church? Yeah, he was. That's what he was doing. He was settling all the cases. And he was
basically engaging in covering for the Church, but getting money for all the people that had
filed complaints against these pedophile priests. But he was getting a share of the money. And so
I was really mortified by that. But it started with him successfully settling the case for John
Mack and making them leave John alone, but it stifled our ability to bring all the witnesses on.
It's a little known fact about a well-known subject. But the bottom line is that's how
I ended up, after they apologized to John and left him alone, he had me become legal counsel for
his project on Extraordinary Experience Research, the peer group that he had there in Cambridge.
And John and I started working on trying to set up what we were calling the New Paradigm Institute
that was going to be examining the worldview clash that occurred. That this is an entirely
different worldview that Harvard University has. It's the scientific, logical, positivist,
materialist worldview. And that the assertion that it was completely impossible to believe that
any spacecraft could actually come from a distant star system and come to our planet
just couldn't be true. Because they can't go faster than the speed of light, and therefore they
can't get there. What did John think about all of this? Did he really think that this was like
spacecrafts coming from another star system? Or did he think this was something like inside the
human mind? No, it wasn't inside the human mind. What he started thinking about was that he thought
it was quite clear that there was evidence that some of these events involved a spacecraft from
some other planetary system. For example, the Betty and Barney Hill case. Betty Hill actually
got one of the people on the craft that she believed that they'd been abducted and brought on to
to show her a map. You've probably heard about that. Showed the star map, right? And she did get
hypnotized by a guy in Boston, a professional hypnotist, and she redrew the star map that
was shown to them. And nobody could figure out where it was. And it turns out that it wasn't
later until they had the computers that could do it, that they reversed the star chart to figure
out the perspective from which the star map was drafted, was drawn, that came from their planet,
which turned out to be Zeta reticuli. And when that happened, that was kind of a
further confirmation because there was any way she could have drawn something like that.
She didn't know anything about stuff like that, right? And so John said, okay, now there's some
solid evidence that at least some of this is coming from an extraterrestrial civilization
somewhere. But he thought that there was other stuff going on as well. That it wasn't that this
was a delusion on their part, but that in fact, there was something going on that had to do with
what is normally considered to be religion in apparitions of the saint's sea and the apparitions
of Mary, you know, that these kind of things that are happening. And so he started exploring it and
going to interview indigenous people around the world who believe that they have direct encounters
with star people. And the Lakota tribe, for example, the Lakota people believe that they come from
the Pleiades originally and that they came down from the Pleiades in this light chamber, came down
into the Black Hills, into the wind caves, and came up through the wind caves. It's a very specific
tradition that they believe. And there are other indigenous tribes. So John started interviewing
people and put together this thing called the Project on Extraordinary Experience Research.
Just one of the extraordinary experiences was these encounters with what they experienced as
being an extraterrestrial being, you know, in a spacecraft. But there were other experiences
that people had that made it appear that it was like interdimensional, that they thought that these
beings were coming from some other dimension. In fact, in fact, we got called, John got called
by Bob Bigelow from the Skinwalker Ranch. This is back in 1995 or so, right? And he got a call
from Bigelow and Bigelow said, asked John to come fly out and see him right away and bring your lawyer
who helped you there at Harvard. So we flew out to see Bigelow. And when we arrived, even like a day
later after this event had taken place, we arrived and met with him and he didn't want to talk about
it anymore. He decided I don't want to talk about it. And Colum Kelleher was there. And Colum took
me aside and stepped into the room next door and told me all about what had happened there at the
ranch and had to do with this kind of portal that was like at the ranch. And that this portal had
opened and one of their people had seen this other, this person, a big tall, seven foot tall
being that had big kind of shaggy hair, looked almost like a Yeti kind of character. And Colum
told me all about it. And so I went back out and was talking to Bigelow to see whether he wanted
to do it because what happened is Bigelow brought in a scientific team right away to try to see what
it is that was going on here, to measure what it was. And these two helicopters flew in. Two
helicopters flew in and landed in order of the scientific team to get away. And they couldn't
come to where this event took place. And the scientists kept saying, no, we're here from Mr.
Bigelow. He owns this place. And they said they don't care, you get the hell out of here. They were
American guys, black helicopters. They were unmarked helicopters. But they were just regular
jumpsuits, all black jumpsuits, no insignia on them, no names on them and anything. But they were
American guys talking. He knew that they were, they could recognize they were American military
guys. And when the scientists kept trying to assist upon going in and setting up their equipment,
they began to get beaten up by these guys and breaking their equipment and broke their cameras
and scared the crap out of them. This is on Skinwalker Ranch? Yes. Yes. Yeah. And I was right
there like within two days of when this happened, you know, of them beating up the scientists and
stuff. And so that originally he was so upset that Bigelow wanted to sue them and wanted John
to bring his lawyer out to do something about this. But by the time we got there, just a couple
of days later, he just was not going to do anything at all. And as I say, it was Column
Collarher told me all about the details of what it is that had just happened. Who do you guys
suspect these people were? I don't get paid to guess. You know, if people want to investigate it
and want to do it so I can retain professional investigators and the proper people to do the
investigation, we do it. Does anybody have any ideas? Does Bigelow have any clue? Does anybody
speculate? Oh, all kinds of people speculate. I mean, this whole field is filled with speculation.
These private contractors, are they? I'm assuming that I'll be in position since we've set up the
new institute, the new Paradigm Institute, that will be funded to investigate things like this
and do it professionally, full scale, you know, with psychological stress evaluators and professional
investigators that are licensed gun toters. That's what we work with. You know, that's what we did
in the Karen Silkwood case. That's how we found out who killed Karen Silkwood. That's how we found
out that they were smuggling the plutonium out of the facility to Israel. You know, it's how we
did the Iran Contra case, how we caught them smuggling the weapons to the Contras and smuggling
the cocaine. We had, we had, where they were smuggling the cocaine to and, you know, punt,
the, the, these little shrimp boats, they were bringing it into Miami. We had the house where
they were bringing it. We had the unlisted private telephone number for the house. We had the code
words you used to be able to call and get an order of the drugs. We knew that it was Gambino's
daughter that was running the place. That's what we do. I mean, that was what the Christic Institute
was for 20 years in Washington. That's what the Romero Institute has been for 20 years out in
California. And that's what our new Paradigm Institute brings to this. That's what we brought to
John Mack is what we brought to the, the review of the vetting, the people that were going to be
witnesses for this closure project. So with John Mack, all of those people that you guys interviewed
and all the people that he did this holotropic breathing with and had them kind of recount
these experiences, things like what Betty and Barney Hill encountered. How many of those people
were full of a few of them? There had to be there. Yeah, yeah, there were. Well, some, some of them
were full of some of them were full of some of them were were mentally ill,
you know, which is different than being full of you know, but there were others that were just
fakes, you know, they just wanted celebrity or wanted to be involved in it. And so I vetted
these people out, you know, that was what I did for the, for the peer peer group, you know,
that was part of my responsibility. And that's what I did for the, for the disclosure project.
As I said, no, these are not people that we want to vouch for, right? You know,
and so that we could, we could call through the people and present just the most credible people
with a kind of verifiable evidence that you would, you would conduct a rule 11 preliminary
investigation before you would be willing to file a complaint, you know, asserting that the facts
are true to the best of your belief, you know, that that's what we bring to this, this whole field,
which is new, is a rule 11 standard of professional investigation. And the fact of the
matter is that we can in fact bring adequate numbers of witnesses who are completely credible,
completely verifiable, who've got core corroborating evidence and documented proof,
you know, and those are the kind of people that are being presented to the United States Senate.
Are you familiar with the guy who, he was a Air Force officer, I believe at the,
what was the name of that base in California, Vandenberg? Vandenberg.
There was a story of a rocket that went up with a dummy nuclear warhead on it. This guy was like
arguing with Bill Nye on live TV about it. Was he one of your witnesses? No, he hasn't,
he hasn't gone in front of the Senate yet. He did, he came to the National Press Club though.
He came, he came with Bob Solis. Bob Solis came and who was the captain at the
Maltesroom Air Force base with the Minutemen. And there were two other guys who came with him,
one of them was that guy, and that he presented the entire information about and showed a mock-up
of the video that he took. A mock-up of the video? He showed what it looked like. What it was is that
he was actually videoing the launch and watched the launch go with the big gigantic telescope
that they had. He had it mounted to be able to watch the whole ascent of the rocket and he
saw the thing. And what he did is he drew a reenactment of what it looked like in the show.
Where was the original video? It was top secret. It was kept by the people,
he was working for Vandenberg Air Force Base. He was actually part of the team that was monitoring
the flight. And so he was in an official position to be doing it. And so he's the one that saw the
video and turned it over to the officials in the Air Force about what it is that had happened.
But he waited for years. This was just, let's see, we're in February of 2024. Now this was like in,
I guess early June, probably a little earlier than that, May of 2023,
he came with Bob Salas to the National Press Club and actually had a press conference
and showed his recreation of what the video looked like. So he did talk about that.
Yeah, there's been lots of recreations of that video online you can find on YouTube.
It's for people that aren't familiar with it, apparently some sort of a saucer came up around
this fake nuke that was being launched in the atmosphere and it like shot laser beams into it,
that they just fell into the ocean. Yeah, and they just showed it like a beam of light coming
out of it. And then it went in the rocket was going up. I mean, it was accelerating, you know,
like, I don't know, a thousand miles an hour or something. And this craft, whatever it was,
was just doing circles around it and zapped it with these three different beams of light.
And then the whole thing just, you know, went all off course and ended up crashing, I guess.
Yeah, and we were talking a little bit earlier about like the misinformation and what the
military was trying to do with some of these people at these bases by, you know, giving them
these psych exams by John Mack, because obviously, like you put it well, it's not good for a career
builder, right? Exactly. So are you like, I wonder how much of that is going on now with people that
come out and or are publicly talking about like witnessing UFOs or having these sort of abduction
experiences. How many of these people are being contacted by people in the government or people
in the military and being fed disinformation so they can basically be a conduit to the media,
giving them sort of like a limited hangout type thing? Well, it's an important fact question,
but it's one that we have to investigate. I mean, all kinds of people speculated about it and
there's a mixture of people who are making stuff up. There's a mixture of people who are speculating.
There are people who are getting third hand reports and then embellishing them.
What we're doing at the New Paradigm Institute, in addition to organizing and educating people
about the kind of really concrete cases that are really verifiable, that what we're going to do is
investigate some of these other cases to vet them and decide which ones of those that we can vouch
for, okay? Because we're in the process of presenting people to the Senate, you know,
into the House Oversight Committee. So we're trying to make sure that, you know, you could have
five really absolutely credible witnesses, but if you let one real ringer get in there,
you know, who's mentally ill or just faking it, you know, like this guy, Cory Good, you know,
that was going around, you know, pretending that he was on, you know, interstellar spacecraft
that we'd back engineered and he'd been to other galaxies. Who's this guy? This guy, Cory Good,
he was around for about two years and Dave Wilcock was, you know, flogging him all around and
putting him on Gaia and everything. You know, there are people that are just complete phonies
that have- Dave Wilcock, yeah. Yeah, yeah. That guy's a wacko. That's right. That's right. But
these two guys were all the rage. I mean, they were showing up at, you know, going on Gaia
television. They were going to the International UFO Congress. They were going to the, you know,
all these different events where people are gathering together and they were attracting
big, huge crowds, you know, and it was just this totally sensationalist stuff. I mean, and I just,
I ended up refusing to go to any- I refused to participate in anything that they were at.
That guy Wilcock was like in the beginning of the trailer of one of Stephen Greer's
documentaries calling Greer a genius. Well, he was like, Stephen Greer is a genius.
Well, as I say, people are, say, all kinds of things, you know, and this area has been rife
with people who are hoaxing and people do it just, it's just like the kids who used to cut
people's clotheslines on Halloween, you know, or poop in a bag and light it on fire and put on
people's porches. You know, I mean, there are people that are just reckless- Well, are you-
I'm sure you're familiar with the Paul Benowitz case, right? There's a movie,
there's an amazing documentary called Mirage Men, and it's about this guy named Paul Benowitz.
I believe this was in, Steve, you could probably find this, but I think it was in the 70s,
mid to late 70s. He was living in Nevada and here's, yeah, here's the document. It is one of,
if not the best UFO document I've ever seen, shout out Jeremy Rees told me about this.
Anyways, he was living near an Air Force base right over the hill in Nevada,
and this guy was a devout UFO guy, right? He was in the community going to all the talks,
and he was seeing these crafts, these UFOs flying over the mountains near where this
Air Force test range was, and he was sharing them with the UFO community in the area.
Anyways, the Air Force got wind, or the people at the base got wind of this, and they sent a
counterintelligence guy over to his apartment to check it out, see what he knew, and the guy they
sent over was, his name was Rick Doty. Oh, Doty, oh yeah. And he went over there and he found out
what he had, and Doty was feeding him fake information. This is right in line when they
were testing the stealth bomber, and Doty saw what he knew and asked him what he thought,
and he said he thought there were UFOs, and Doty said, you know what, I think you're right.
I think these are aliens, and he used Benowitz as a conduit into the UFO community to disseminate
this misinformation because they knew there were Soviet spies embedded in the UFO community that
were trying to figure out what sort of military or blue sky research that we were testing and
developing over there at those Air Force bases. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by
Rocket Money. Do you ever feel like money is just flying out of your bank account each month, and
you have no clue where it's going? Well, I do. It's to all those subscriptions you have. Think
about it. Between all your streaming services, productivity tools, fitness apps, meditation
guided apps, it's endless, and I'm guilty of this. So I ended up using Rocket Money to figure out
which subscriptions I'm still paying money for every month, and they helped me cancel all the
ones I no longer use. If you're unfamiliar with Rocket Money, it's a personal finance app that
helps you cancel your unwanted subscriptions, monitor your spending, and helps lower your bills.
And it's not just about canceling subscriptions, it's about monitoring and controlling your spending.
You can see all your subscriptions in one place. No more digging through bank statements or suffering
these long grueling calls with customer service people. They'll even work on getting you refunds
on subscriptions that you haven't used. They're very skilled negotiators. Rocket Money can
potentially lower your bills by up to 20%. Just snap a photo of your bill, send it to them,
and they will handle the rest. The bottom line is Rocket Money has already helped over 5 million
users save an average of $720 per year. That's over $500 million in canceled subscriptions.
Stop wasting money on things you don't use and cancel all those unwanted subscriptions
by going to rocketmoney.com.djp. Again, that's rocketmoney.com.djp. It's linked below. Now back
to the show. No, I remember I met Dodie before, and I always thought Dodie was a phony. People
didn't like me saying it. I don't attack people as a rule unless I become just completely convinced
that they're lying and that they're engaged in active disinformation and trying to discredit the
whole movement. Dodie was one of those guys, and there have been a handful of others like
Will Cock and Corey Good and a couple others that we've been involved in exposing. There was
one guy, I can't remember his name right now, but he had this whole cockamamie story where
he and his dog were out walking in the woods, and they came upon this craft that was crashed
in the woods, and it shot out a ray and froze his dog, and so he got really angry, and he picked
up a big branch and clubbed this little UFO guy and put him in his freezer and was keeping him
there, and he had this big mechanism that he put on his wrist and could shoot rays. It was just
total lying, you know, and one of my professional investigators actually followed this guy around
and finally caught him, you know, reporting to some friends of his how he was bullshitting
everybody. Yeah, and I told John Mack about it, and John then issued a statement discrediting the
guy. Yeah, and then what is that? Someone's driving. That was a loud car. There's also like when
on Groom Lake, when the Air Force or the CIA was testing the first jet propelled, you know,
the first jet airplanes, they sent up the pilots with gorilla masks in the cockpit.
So in the case where they flew within visual distance of a civilian airplane,
they would put on gorilla masks so that when this pilot goes to the bar to tell his buddies
about this jet airplane he saw, he's going to say he saw a gorilla flying a jet airplane.
So it's like purposely planning these fake seeds to cover up top secret information.
Oh yeah, they definitely were doing it, and they very definitely consider the whole UFO issue
a major top secret program, and that they've been actively engaged in sowing disinformation and
discrediting individual people who have genuinely seen things. They've destroyed people's family
lives, they've destroyed their professional careers, you know, they've destroyed their military
careers, you know, and there's a very active, aggressive counterintelligence program that's
mounted to stop people from reporting genuine UFO incidents. And I connect all of this to
to Bob Lazar in the fact that in his story, specifically when he talks about walking past
a window and seeing an alien body, like if they were going to bring him in to potentially try to
back engineer some sort of technology they dug up, it would make it really would make sense that
let's walk him through a room with a little alien in it, so that way if he ever tries to
blow the whistle on this program, people aren't going to believe him.
No, there's dozens of individual cases where it bears analysis, professional analysis. You know,
for example, all you have to do is get him Bob Lazar and put him on a psychological stress
evaluator, which no one has done. They put him on lie detector tests, and he's passed a lie
detector test, but those are pretty crude, you know. I mean, the little things on your fingers
and the little belt on your chest, those are not even close to the precision of a psychological
stress evaluator that measures tension, involuntary tension in your vocal cords. It's a very professional
way of going about. I was in F. Lee Bailey's office. When was this developed? We used it in
Bailey's office when I was there in 74, 75, but not very many people knew about him.
Bailey also had a briefcase satellite phone, etc. We discovered only later that he was actually
on the index four for the CIA. He was one of the four lawyers in the United States that the CIA is
supposed to contact if one of their people is caught engaging in domestic covert operations,
which is totally forbidden by the National Security Act of 1947. So, I was one of the three trial
lawyers in his office, and we didn't know it. And as soon as we discovered it, you know, I left
and had a number of the investigators leave with me, because we didn't want to be associated with
that. Can you break it down for people listening what the Pentagon Papers were and how that led
into the Watergate burglary and how you got involved in it? Well, what happened is that there
were separate cases. The Pentagon Papers, I had initiated the case. I was the co-founder of the
Harvard Civil Rights Law Review in 1968. I was doing constitutional law with Lawrence Tribe
and others, and we set up the Harvard Civil Rights Law Review. And I wanted the law review to be
something more than just writing academic thought pieces. And so, I wanted to have a provision
in the Harvard Civil Rights Law Review where we were helping young lawyers figure out how to become
civil rights lawyers. And so, we sent out letters to the lot of the major bar associations and things,
letting people know that if any lawyers had really important civil rights cases,
they could contact us at the Harvard Civil Rights Law Review. And we would get a bunch of little eager
beavers at Harvard to work on those briefs, right? And so, the bottom line is, I ended up being
contacted by a guy by the name of Pappas, John Pappas, who was an NBC television journalist
in New Bedford during the riots that followed the assassination of Martin Luther King in April of
1968. And the riots broke out in New Bedford after the assassination of Martin Luther King.
And the white mayor issued a shoot-on-site order to the police to shoot any looters that were engaged
in looting in the context of those riots. So, the Black Panthers had set up barricades
around the ghetto area to keep all the police out of there. And their big standoff occurred because
they built barricades and then the police came in and they brought in the helicopters and,
you know, they thought there was going to be gunplay that was going on because they were armed
the Panthers. The bottom line is, long story short, that the Panthers agreed to give an interview
an off-the-record interview to John Pappas, Paul Pappas, I'm sorry, Paul Pappas, would give them
an interview if he would keep it off the record. And he went in and interviewed them and then the
district attorney subpoenaed him to make him cough up the confidential interviews that he'd had with
the Panthers. And they contacted us at the Harvard Civil Rights Law Review through a guy by the name
John Flynn to write, you know, so I asserted the First Amendment right of journalists to protect
their confidential news sources in the case went all the way up the United States Supreme Court
right away. And so I was only a second-year law student, so I got recruited by the Wall
Street law firm that represents NVC to come down to do the briefs for the United States Supreme Court.
And in doing that, I also wrote the amicus briefs at the Supreme Court level for CBS and
ABC and also for the Washington Post in the New York Times. They all filed amicus briefs on that
important issue right in the Supreme Court because no one had ever asserted the right before and so
it had never been litigated. So we were litigating it in front of the Supreme Court. In that context,
I got to meet Jim Goodell, who was the general counsel and vice president for the New York Times.
So when they got the Pentagon Papers brought to them, their firm, Lord Day and Lord, that represents
the New York Times most of the time threatened to turn them into the FBI if they didn't give them
back right away. And so Jim Goodell called me over at the Cahill firm, so I got the call
and then Jim Goodell came in to talk with me and us and we agreed to represent them to publish the
papers. So we went ahead and did the Pentagon Papers case for the New York Times and won the case in
the United States Supreme Court and got to publish all 47 volumes. But what happened is I got to read,
I was one of the few human beings on the planet that actually read all 47 volumes of this because
we were trying to determine what we were going to publish and what we weren't. We're vetting what
we're going to publish. Why would you publish all of it? Because you didn't want to reveal names of
people. For example, the thing that Snowden got in all the trouble for, right? So the bottom line is
I was doing all that and Bailey had already contacted me earlier before I went to the Cahill
firm wanting me to join his firm. But all he wanted me to do is write legal briefs on behalf of
constitutional rights to protect fucking criminals. Did Bailey have anything to do with the Pentagon
Papers? No, I would imagine that he would not want that. No, he did not have anything to do with it.
But he knew that I was doing all that stuff and he had asked me first to come to his firm.
He got to recruit. And so the bottom line is when he got retained by McCord to defend McCord in June
of 1972, June 17th when the burglary took place, Bailey gets retained because he was on index four
along with William Bennett Williams and two other attorneys that he was on index four.
It was just a code name they had for the list. There were four lawyers that were on retainer
by the CIA so that if they got caught engaged in domestic covert operations, which is illegal,
that they would call these lawyers, right? And so Bailey was one of them. And so Bailey called me
and asked me if I would come out of the Cahill firm and come to his firm to be on the case.
So when we got there, when we got there, I realized that these three of these Cubano guys
from our interviews with McCord, that they were Traficanti guys. And so I was kind of saying,
look, I'm responsible for trying to monitor the hearings that are becoming up the Watergate
hearings. Who was Traficanti? Santos Traficanti was the Don of the Mafia in Havana. And in January
of 59, when Batista was overthrown by Fidel Castro and Che Guevara, et cetera, that Traficanti
fled and came to Tampa. Actually, it came to Tampa. It was here. Oh yeah. And that was Santos
Traficanti, the mob boss for all of Havana, which was a key area because it had the gambling
casinos, it had the houses of prostitution, et cetera. Was it Meyer Lansky big shot down there?
Miami. Miami National Bank is a Lansky bank. It was a mafia bank, you know.
But he ran a bunch of the casinos and whorehouses are down there.
That's right. And they had the heroin, the main heroin trafficking was coming in from
Southeast Asia. Coming in through Traficanti was also partners with Vang Pao over in Laos.
And they were bringing in the heroin into Havana. And the three person partnership
was Batista, Santos Traficanti in this guy, Paul Helliwell for the CIA. They're the ones that
handled all the heroin coming in through Havana. From Laos? From Laos. That's right. Through
Vang Pao. Yeah. And so the bottom line is I came into the office and we ended up, you know,
participating and getting McCord to blow the whistle on them. He wrote the letter to Judge
Sirica, explaining to him who the burglars were and what they were doing. Because he thought that
they were actually coming in to try to protect. They thought that, well, the story that he told
was that they thought that the Democratic Party was coddling people that were
illegally opposing the Vietnam War, which they thought was undermining national security. That's
what James McCord was talking about. But the bottom line is it turns out we found out through
our interview of Traficanti directly that the reason they'd gone into the Watergate Hotel
was because Larry O'Brien, who had just been made the new head of the Democratic National Committee
in the Watergate Hotel in Washington for 25 years, had been the, previously, was the chief lobbyist
in Washington for Howard Hughes. And Howard Hughes is the guy that Richard Nixon contacted
to set up the assassination team to kill Castro in Che Guevara. And the bottom line is that's the
group that killed the president. And that's what the Watergate burglary was all about,
is Nixon was terrified that they were going to find out that because Larry O'Brien had worked for
Howard Hughes that Larry O'Brien may have found out that Nixon is the one who created the assassination
team that ended up killing the president. And that if it ever got out that nobody would believe
that he wasn't behind killing the president, which he wasn't, but he was behind trying to kill Castro.
And it was that same unit that killed the president in 63.
All right, we're gonna have to rewind a little bit. We're gonna have to do this off the UFO
subject. We're gonna have to go a little slower over this for a second. So the guys, you interviewed
Traficanti and found out that the Cuban guys were going into the hotel to find, they were
hired by who? They were, well, like, let me, I'll take it from the top and I'll tell you. So you
know the details of it. What happened when I realized that there were Traficanti guys that
were in the hotel? And I was saying, what the hell has that got to do with anything? Why are they
there? So I get ahold of Bill Taylor, who was my investigator assigned to me in the firm of Bailey.
And Bailey gets ahold of Bad Andy Tooney, who was the chief investigator for Moriarty and Associates,
which is Bailey's investigation firm, right? And he interviews Traficanti at
Hank's house, Henry Gonzalez at his house here in Tampa. He actually sets up an interview and
interviews him at length and he explains what's happened here. What happened is back in early
late May, actually, in 1960. This is the 1960 presidential campaign and Richard Nixon is the
vice president under Eisenhower, right? And he is campaigning to get the Republican party
nomination in 1960. And in late May of 1960, Nelson Rockefeller withdraws from the campaign
in Michigan. And therefore, Nixon knew he was going to win the nomination because Nixon was now,
because Nelson Rockefeller was out of the competition and Nixon was going to be the
nominee. And they were certain they were going to win because, you know, there was this kid,
Kennedy, that had been, was going to be the nominee for the Democrats. So they were all
convinced that he was going to win. What Richard Nixon did is he was the head of the 5412 committee,
which is the subcommittee of the National Security Council that does covert operations
under section 5412 of the National Security Act of 1947 that authorizes the CIA to engage in
activities from time to time at the request of the president to protect national security.
And so that they, Nixon ran, he chaired the 5412 committee of the National Security Council.
So he knew that Howard Hughes was a secret consultant to the National Security Council.
He was running special operations. He, for example, had designed and created the Glomar
Explorer, which was the ship, special ship that was able to pick up submarines off the bottom of
the ocean. He also did the C5A cargo plane out of the SUMA Corporation. And he was also doing
other stuff for the National Security Council 5412. We're talking about Howard Hughes, the guy
who's the Howard Hughes. This is Howard Hughes. This is Howard Hughes. And he's living in Las
Vegas, you know, at the, one of the major mob hotels. And he's living in the penthouse suites
up there, right? Right. And so the bottom line is Richard Nixon contacts him as soon as Richard
Nixon knew that Nelson Rockefeller had withdrawn and he was going to be the nominee and he contacted
Howard Hughes and on the secret phone for the 5412 committee, talked with him by phone and asked
him to set up an assassination team to kill Fidel Castro, Raul Castro in five of the commandantes
that they wanted assassinated. And he said, but you got to keep it completely away from the White
House. So that, but if you could get that done, that I would deeply appreciate that when I become
president, right? But if Howard Hughes, why would Howard Hughes set up an assassination team?
Well, when you know the nature of what some of the things were that Howard Hughes was doing with
with the 5412 committee, it was the deepest, darkest, most secret stuff that they were doing.
And he was part of it. It wouldn't help for me to go into what that one was, but there was a
extremely, extremely super sensitive program that Howard Hughes was working on with them,
in addition to the Glimmer Explorer and the C5A and all that. But, and because of the depth of
the darkness of the, that relationship that he had, he knew that he could go in under that umbrella,
that super dark program, and to get Hughes to do this. Hughes doesn't agree or disagree with
Nixon on the phone, whether he's going to do it or not. He's not done. So, but what he did is he
got one of our, one of his lawyers, Bob Mayhew. And Bob Mayhew, he assigned to go get this done.
See if they could put this team together. Bob Mayhew meets with Johnny Roselli.
Johnny Roselli is the bag man at the Sands Hotel that's owned by the mob. And Johnny Roselli is in
Las Vegas, where, where Howard Hughes is, and where Bob Mayhew was. And so he, so Bob Mayhew gets a
hold of Johnny Roselli and says, look, use guys, you know, have every reason in the world to try to
get rid of Castro. You know, he shut down the horror houses, he shut down the gambling casinos,
very important, he's cut off the heroin supply that's coming in to the, to the C Supply Corporation.
So if you guys would do this, you know, the president would be really grateful. And they
started referring to Nixon as the president, because everybody assumed he was going to win, right?
And so, so what, so Frank, so Johnny Roselli says, well, I'm going to have to go and see Giancana,
you know, who's my principal here. I can't do this. So I'd have to clear this through
Giancana. So, so Johnny Roselli goes back to Chicago and meets with Giancana and says, look,
here's the Nixon who's going to get to be president now. What's this assassination team put together?
Can we do this? And, and Giancana says, well, that's Traficanti's territory. That's, he's the
Don of Havana, you know, and even though he's fled and he's up in Tampa now, he said, we're
going to have to go meet with him to see whether he would okay this. And so what they do is they
set up a meeting and Sam Giancana goes and Johnny Roselli goes and Bob Mayhew goes and they meet
down at the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami with Traficanti. And they hold two meetings there to
persuade him to do this, to set this thing up. And then Traficanti says to us, you know, he said,
but I didn't fall off no melon wagon. He said, he said, so I'm going to, I'm going to check to
make sure that this is coming directly from Nixon. Not some, as he said, brain fire, you know, of,
of Giancana or of Howard Hughes or anybody else. I wanted to, so that they, the third meeting,
they send a guy using the nom de guerre of Mr. Ed, and it was Sheffield Edwards. Sheffield Edwards
was the chief of security for the Central Intelligence Agency under Eisenhower and Nixon,
the administration. And so he comes to the meeting and gives them the green light to put this
assassination team together. So they put the assassination team together and Traficanti
is the guy who's going to put together the team. And Traficanti picks 15 guys that are
former shooters for him out of Havana. But he gets guys who have been recruited by the CIA
to participate in a thing called Operation 40, which is a covert operation that they were running
guerrilla raids into Cuba, burning bridges and blowing up, you know, burning sugar fields
and doing that stuff that they were doing. That's Operation 40. And they had recruited a whole
bunch of former Traficanti guys to participate in that who had fled from Havana and were up in
Tampa in Miami. This was the anti-Castro, Miami right wing, hardball, anti-Castro Cuban refugee
community, Alpha 66, you know, the 2506 Brigade, you know that crowd. Do you know Felix Rodriguez?
I sure do. No, Felix Rodriguez. I've taken Felix Rodriguez's deposition.
You took his deposition. Yeah. Can you tell me about Felix Rodriguez?
Felix Rodriguez is a shooter. He's one of the guys on the team that killed the president.
He and Rafael Chichi Quintero. I'm going to interview him tomorrow.
Oh, well, that's who he is. You know, he'll know exactly who I am. Because he was the number one
guy at Ilepango running the contra weapons supply operations along with Rafael Chichi Quintero.
He and Rafael Quintero were in the security division at Pemex in Mexico City where all the
assassins hung out in Operation Condor. He's a cold-blooded fucking killer, you know. That's who
he is. Yeah, Felix Rodriguez. So he was on, yeah, he was one of the Cuban assassins.
That's right. That's exactly right. That's exactly right. And just asking about Rafael
Chichi Quintero. Tell him we've interviewed Rafael Chichi Quintero so we know exactly what we're
talking about, you know. So ask him who Carl Jenkins is, you know, say, tell me about Carl
Jenkins and tell me about how you got trained down in the, down in Oaxaca, Mexico at Clint
Merceson Jr.'s ranch as part of the triangular fire team to kill Castro. Tell us about that,
Felix. That's incredible how a universe fucking just like falls into place.
See what he says about that. Yeah. Oh my God. So a lady we just had in here by the name of
Annie Jacobson is how I learned about Felix. She wrote a book called Surprise Kill Vanish
all about the, like the creation of the title 51 CIA assassination teams.
And she followed a guy named Billy Wa around different countries who was like,
he started out in Vietnam really, he guy just passed away. But he was a CIA paramilitary guy who
was like doing some brutal stuff in multiple different countries. And he was the guy who
captured Carlos the Jackal. And one of the guys that she interviewed in that book was
Felix Rodriguez. And yeah, she talks about how like some of the things he did didn't say anything
you said, just none of the stuff you just said, but she talks about some of the operations he did
during the Bay of Pigs and how he captured Che Guevara. Yeah. Ask him about his wristwatch
when he's sitting there. Ask him to show you his wristwatch. He's got Che's wristwatch. He wears
it. Wow. Yeah. He wears it to this day. One in five Americans has learning a new language on
their bucket list. And if that's you make 2024 your year by checking that off your bucket list
with Babel. Babel's quick 10 minute lessons are handcrafted by over 200 language experts to help
you start speaking a new language in as little as three weeks. I always binge Babel's courses
when I'm gearing up to go on a trip. It helps me to prepare my conversational skills so I can deal
with real people in real life situations when I'm ordering food or asking for directions or dealing
with merchants. And to me what helps at Babel above the rest is their speech recognition technology
which helps hone in your accent and pronunciation. Studies from Yale, Michigan State and others
continue to prove Babel is better. One study found that using Babel for 15 hours is equivalent to a
full semester at college. Babel has over 16 million subscriptions sold plus all of Babel's 14 award
winning language courses are backed by their 20 day money back guarantee. And here's a special
limited time deal for our listeners. Right now get 50% off a one time payment for a lifetime
Babel subscription but only for our listeners at Babel.com slash Danny. Again get 50% off at
Babel.com slash Danny. It's spelled B-A-B-B-E-L dot com slash D-A-N-N-Y. Rules and restrictions may
apply it's linked below now back to the show. So okay how did you learn about Felix like initially
how did you find out who he was? Well here's what happened is that here's Traficanti telling us
explaining how they did this right. So what they did is Traficanti takes 15 of his guys
all of whom had been shooters for him down in Havana right gun guys and they are all he takes
guys that are all been recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency to work in Operation 40 which
is running the raids down into Cuba right and they've got five paramilitary bases they've got one
out on Swan Island one at No Name Key one of them in the Everglades and two of them at Lake
Pontchartrain one on the southern border and one in the northern border. The northern the northern
base at Lake Pontchartrain is where Harry Oswald was working you know with the guys in New Orleans.
Right okay and so so the bottom line is they put 15 guys on this assassination team and the way they
do it is they they're all spread out in these five paramilitary operations right and what they do
is they send private planes around and pick them up individually and they fly them to Fort
Wachuca in Arizona and they sign them in and then they all disappear and they take them down to
Wachuca, Mexico at Clint Mergeson Jr.'s ranch down there and they have a triangular fire team
base down there and the guy named Carl Jenkins is training them. What does triangular fire team
mean? They're they're high-powered rifles so they set up a triangular crossfire to to get three
different angles coming in to shoot and kill a target a moving target okay and they were trained
down there and they were they were tasked to kill Castro and that was that and they were called the
S-Force was their codename you know say say that to Felix and watch how he responds to that one.
The S-Force? The S-Force that's who they were and and and so that they they were tasked to try to
kill Castro and and what what happened is that they they were put together they were assembled
he picked the guys who were also in operation 40 working with the CIA so that if any of them got
caught the agency would have to move in to protect them because people would think they're the ones
that did it but they weren't but they did I mean it but it was it was Nixon that was asking to have
it set up but it was set up by Howard Hughes and then Traficanti set it up but he got to go ahead
from from Sheffield Edwards who was chief of security for the CIA under Nixon right and so
that's that's how the thing was set up and they but lo and behold it turns out Nixon didn't get
elected and Kennedy got elected but Kennedy was not briefed on the existence of this group okay and
what they did is they they set up you're gonna love this part they they set up a mechanism for
funding them and what they were doing is they were to to fund the triangular fire team base down
in Oaxaca at their at the ranch at Clint Mergersons ranch what they did is they skimmed cash off the
casinos in Vegas they would put them into these brand new suitcases they put them in the trunks
of brand new Cadillac automobiles and they would drive them from Las Vegas through New Orleans
where the all the money would be audited you know by Marcellos people right and then they'd
drive the money all the way to Miami and deposit it into Meyer Lansky's national bank of Miami
and then what they would do here it comes here what they would do is they would wire some of that
money down to the Banco Internationale down to Mexico City and there was a lawyer there by the
Mivogario and they put it into his account and that's where they wrote the checks from to pay for
all the costs for the triangular fire team base and that was the bank on which the money that was
found in Bernard Barker's pocket in the Watergate burglary came directly from that account
and that's where that's where Mark Felt was headed for Mark Felt was getting set to go down to the
bank to find out what the hell the story is with that account when when Pat Gray who had become
the new head of the FBI instead of Mark Felt freaked out about the fact that he was getting
set to go down the next day on the 23rd of June following the 17th of June break-in right
so he goes on the 21st of June Pat Gray goes to the White House to meet with John Dean
and says to Dean you know we got a problem here you know Mark Felt is getting set to go down to
Mexico to this bank down there to track the sequentially numbered bills that were in Bernard
Barker's pocket one of the Watergate burglars and and so so John Dean goes and tells tells
what was I said the chief of staff uh what was his name uh the guy with a crew cut
anyway tells him about the the fact that Felt's getting set to go down to the bank and we he needs
to find out whether that's going to be a problem uh and so so the uh what's the guy's name we're talking
about the Mexico City Bank right yeah the Mexico Bank of Banco Internationale right uh uh and uh
and so the the bottom line is the chief of staff comes in to talk with Richard Nixon in the Oval
Office and he says uh Mr. President he says I think we've got a problem here and Nixon says
what is it John right uh and uh he says uh uh you know uh Pat Gray has just come in
has talked with with John Dean and said that uh this guy Mark Felt is getting set to go down
to this bank down in Mexico City to track these money that was in Bernard Barker's pocket he says
and he wants to know if that's going to cause any trouble there's a big long delay on the tape
and and Nixon says uh look uh you got to go you got to go and get ahold of Ehrlichman right away
and you got to go on over to the agency and you got to sit down you got to talk to Dick Helms uh
and to Vernon Walters both make sure they're in the meeting and tell them both that they've got
to contact uh they've got to contact the FBI the agency's got to contact the FBI Dick Helms is the
head of the right the right because you got to contact the FBI and tell them to get the hell out
of that part of the investigation and so the the chief of staff I'm trying to remember his name
still uh says to him well what am I going to tell him what am I going to tell him to say to make
him get out of there he says just tell him uh if you you you can't tear off that scab uh if tear
off that scab it's going to it's going to reveal an awful lot of things that can't get revealed
so did you just tell Dick Helms and Vernon Walters that if they don't get out of that right away
all the Mexico stuff is going to come out about the Bay of Pigs guys that's what he said that's the
smoking gun conversation that nobody can figure out what it means nobody can figure out what it
means but that's exactly what he said uh because as it turns out the the the guys the guys in the
Watergate Hotel in addition to the the Cubans were Howard Hughes and Frank Sturgis as you may
recall along with G. Gordon Liddy okay but it turns out that Frank Sturgis was in control of one of
the five paramilitary bases on no-name-key right uh no in Swan Island he was on Swan Island uh in
the other one in the Everglades was E. Howard Hunt these were the CIA liaisons to those Cubano
groups that were doing the assaults into into Cuba and they were the liaison to the team of
people that were put together to be the assassination team right and so these for Castro for Castro
right that's right and so what happened is is that it wasn't the Bay of Pigs thing people could
think oh the CIA must have killed them because the Bay of Pigs they were so upset that wasn't it
it was the Cuban Missile Crisis the Cuban Missile Crisis in October of 62 that what had happened is
the the uh the Khrushchev and Kennedy had become so totally traumatized by the fact
that they'd come within minutes of a complete total nuclear annihilation of the planet uh
that the two of them started having these secret communications and they were actually they they
exchanged 18 letters that people don't know about uh through uh through uh cousins his name was
that was moving was delivering the letters back and forth between Khrushchev and Kennedy
and what they were doing is they were the two of them were discussing disassembling the nuclear
warheads of the entire nuclear arsenal of the United States and Russia uh and that they just
freaked out when they found out about this and said this guy's gotta go Kennedy Kennedy's gotta go
we can't wait for the election you know this is this is November of 62 or 63 rather you know it's
a whole year before the election he's going to exercise his executive authority as the commander
in chief to order the disassembling of the nuclear warheads and and Khrushchev is going to do the
same for the Soviet Union and it's going to be brokered by John the 23rd. Pope John the 23rd
is going to be the broker of making sure they both comply with this because Khrushchev liked him
and trusted him and of course Kennedy did too and that's the process that was underway and so
what happened is the the Cuban guys wanted wanted to kill wanted to kill Kennedy because
when when the when the uh Cuban Missile Chrysler had happened that he had he was so freaked out
that he ordered the shutting down of all five of the bases uh and it was freaked out that uh that
Kennedy was so freaked out about how close they had come to having nuclear war that he promised
Khrushchev that he was because what happened is after the Bay of Pigs Kennedy apologized right
for for having authorized the attempted invasion and at the Bay of Pigs yeah and there was also
there was declassified there was um there was two operations uh I think one was called Northwoods
and there was another one maybe it was just Northwoods but they were gonna have Northwoods
they were gonna have they were going to fly a plane a remote controlled plane and blow it up
and say the Cubans did it and they were also going to have some attacking some Cubans killing
people in Miami and DC three things they were going to blow up an airplane and say that the
been done by Castro they were going to attack Guantanamo base they were actually going to
address up a number of Cuban refugees in Cuban military uniforms and attack and kill personnel
at the Guantanamo military base and they were going to blow up shopping malls in Miami uh
specifically targeting members of the Cuban anti-Castro Cuban refugee community to blow them up
to totally make them hysterical so that they would then be able to blame it on Castro right
so all of that all that stuff was going on but after the after the the Bay of Pigs fiasco
Kennedy apologized uh and took responsibility for it right and then what he did is he promised
Cruz Jeff that he would stand down operation 40 that was running the attacks under Nixon
that had been running the attacks on the island right and against Cuba and so Kennedy said he
was going to stand them down and then he went down to Miami and in the orange bowl did a big
presentation to the to Cuban community that he gave them his solemn word that the the flag of a
free Cuba would fly over the island by the end of his second term he gave them that promise that
solemn promise right uh and the problem is he didn't he didn't order them shut down he had lied
to to Cruz Jeff and they just transformed operation 40 into a thing called JM wave
uh and they ran it off the Miami base they had a great big base called JM wave uh and they they
changed it from operation 40 to operation mongoose was the code name right right okay but he continued
to run it and so what happened is when when Cruz Jeff realized that Kennedy had lied to him
after the Bay of Pigs and he was not standing down the operation that's when he started sending
the missiles in right okay and so he put all those missiles in and when Kennedy later in October of
62 found out about it that's that's from April of 1960 when they actually had the Bay of Pigs
thing happened there almost two years later in October when they discovered that the missiles were
there uh but in the interim what had happened is is uh when the missile crisis came down in October
of 62 Kennedy and in Cruz Jeff I said were so freaked out by it that they started exchanging
these these letters uh and that they were trying to have a daytime and they were going to be not
only not only uh was Kennedy going to uh to uh to agree to shut down the bases but he ordered the
shutting down of the bases and he said this is for real this time you know he had lied before
saying they were going to close them down and they didn't but now he ordered them to close down
and Frank Sturgis from Swan Island after receiving the order from the president to shut down all
those bases Frank Sturgis launched another attack against Cuba and sank a Russian ship in the harbor
of uh of Havana that could have caused a total shit storm you know and would have caused Cruz
Jeff to think that Kennedy was lying to him again so Bobby and John sent in six helicopter gunships
filled with U.S. marshals and burnt out uh Swan Island the base and arrested the people there
including Frank Sturgis and the guys and they arrested them and charged them with the violation
of the neutrality act and the guys were furious at him right and then he released them after three
days saying that's a shot across the bow knock it off right but then E Howard Hunt over in the
Everglades started planning a second attack against Cuba in complete defiance of the orders of the
president to shut down those bases and cease and desist from that program and Howard Hughes was
getting set to do it again and Kennedy and Bobby and John sent in the helicopter gunships and burnt
out the base at uh in the Everglades and arrested them all and charged them and these guys were
dedicated they were going to kill his asshole right and and so and that was that was all in
October November December actually December of 1962 all that happened right and and uh
when Kennedy was then mounted he was exchanging these letters with Cruz Jeff right these 18
letters with Norman Cousins delivering the letters back and forth and they were planning
to do this thing and one of the things that Kennedy was going to do as a show of good faith
is on June 5th of 1963 same day that Walter Sullivan ended up reporting to Bobby that
there was an assassination team that had been fielded to kill Castro which they didn't even
know about it's all total bullshit people trying to lie and say that uh that the Kennedy's put
together the assassination need to kill Castro totally untrue it was Richard Nixon and we've
got it directly from Santos Traficante that gave us all the details of how it was done and when it
was done and who was in it and everything right and so what what uh Kennedy did is on June 5th
of 1963 Walter Sullivan tells Bobby Kennedy about the assassination team and Kennedy orders them to
stand that operation down and what they do is in defiance of the of the order they put together
a one last attempt to go into the island of Cuba and assassinate Castro uh that took place between
June 13th and 19th of 1963 you know and it was guys from the assassination team guys from the S
force uh and they they were uh under the under the leadership we know exactly who ran them all
one of my investigators was on the boat with them actually when they went down there when they went
down to to the assassination because he at the time was the uh was the head of the Miami office of
Life Magazine uh and and uh uh what's it said the uh the guy the loose Henry Luce who's the
head of Time Magazine in Life Magazine wanted to have a person on board when they got it so
they could get the pictures of the people that went and assassinated Castro right and so Dick
Billings is on the boat assigned to go on the boat with them and so we know perfectly well that
they tried another assassination attempt against Castro on on the 5th of uh from the order to stand
down on June 5th of 1963 and on the same day Kennedy you know demanded from the CIA all their UFO
information wanted to have all the UFO information because he was going to give that to to uh to
Chris Jeff because they wanted to show of show of good faith and they wanted to join together
in a space the space program Kennedy offered Chris Jeff partnership in the joint U.S. uh
soviet space program and and sent was going to send to him the information about the UFOs
which has caused all kinds of people in the UFO community go oh that's why they killed him the
reason they killed him is because he was going to give up the UFO that wasn't it you know John
Newman yes I know John he was just in here a couple days ago yeah he is uh he's got a I mean
he's written like he's written all the books yeah he's written all the books he's written all the
documents all the classified documents I know he hates when people talk about daily plaza he's
like it's the daily plaza water cooler it's all a distraction from what really happened
he talks about the uh the Colonel Lemitzer and Maxwell Taylor who were the joint chiefs of staff
who had the sire and and and Curtis and Curtis LeMay Curtis LeMay yeah big Curtis big Curtis
LeMay absolutely right and they had a big plan for a total and nuclear annihilation of the
soviet and china oh yes oh absolutely and all this stuff oh absolutely no that that whole operation
was going down and they were almost completely out from under control of Kennedy you know right
and and so so the bottom the bottom line is is that what happened is that when when they learned
of the exchange of these letters and what Kennedy was getting ready to do the team was already to
want to kill him in fact on the boat on the flying tiger uh which was uh William B. Pauley
William D. Pauley uh big honcho owned the big sugar mills down in in Cuba and owned the
private bus transportation lines in Cuba you know uh William D. Pauley it was on his boat
that they went down to try to do that assassination in the middle of June of 1963 and Dick Billings
is standing on the deck of the boat the flying tiger too along with William D. Pauley uh in Johnny
Marino uh Johnny Johnny martini Johnny martini is standing on the boat with him uh and uh what was
the guy's name uh uh rip robertson was the guy's name rip robertson was the actual field commander
for the s force it wasn't Carl jen Carl Jenkins didn't wasn't the field commander he was the trainer
for them but rip robertson was the field director for these guys right and so so he's he's rip robertson
is standing on the boat William D. Pauley is standing there and Johnny Martino Martino his name
was and Dick Billings are all standing there uh in in Johnny Martino is just raging about the
Kennedys about what rotten bastards they are and how they lied and they gave their word that they
were going to have a free flag of Cuba flying over there over the and and he was raging like this
and William D. Pauley turned to Johnny Martino in the presence of all those guys and said don't
worry Johnny we're going to kill that mother and that was that was on June that weekend of June 13th
14 15th of 1963 on board the Flying Tiger 2 with Dick Billings standing right there next to him and
Dick has told me the entire story in detail and the first person of proof of it being there you
know uh and so that that's so when as soon as he heard that the president had been killed he knew
he said I knew exactly who had done it and he became the chief of staff for the House Select
Committee on Assassinations so do you think that these these Cubans really wanted I mean do you
think that had anything to do with the actual assassination of Kennedy or do you think it was
the military just using these guys no no I mean that they're the ones that did it I mean they're
the ones that pulled the trigger but it was it was Alan Dulles right it was Alan Dulles now because
he was disgruntled because he'd been fired as the head of the CIA the reason he was the head of the
CIA is because he was general counsel for Brom Brothers Harriman Brom Brothers Harriman is the
key to this thing Brom Brom uh yeah I'm going to sip us up liquid death murder your thirst
yeah Brom Brothers Harriman is the key to this thing because Brom Brothers Harriman was the
group of like 20 of the richest families in the in the country the robber barons all came together
in this informed this group called the Brom Brothers Harriman they were based in New York City
and the heads of all of you know the the the the Carnegie's and the Rockefellers and the the
Harriman they own the rail lines and they own the steel mills they own the agribusiness corporations
they owned the cattle association they owned these key elements of the major economy of the
entire United States during the robber baron era you know openly I mean that's who they were
and they set and they made policy together uh in the bottom line is the the chief the CEO
for Brom Brothers Harriman was George Herbert Walker that's who he is that's the maternal
grandfather of George Herbert Walker Bush and the great grandfather of George Herbert
George W. Walker Bush okay he's the guy uh and they and Alan Dulles was the legal counsel
for Brom Brothers Harriman that's why he was appointed to be the first civilian head of the
CIA uh and the guy who wrote the original memo to Truman recommending the creation of the CIA
you know was Robert Lovett who was the senior partner of Brom Brothers Harriman uh this was
the crowd uh and that just so you just so you'll know uh that George Herbert Walker in 1924
stepped down as the CEO at the end of World War One he stepped down in 1924 uh and handed over
the CEO position to his his son-in-law Prescott Bush right and then he went and set up the the
Union Bank of New York which was capitalized by the major corporate guys that were the funders
and the supporters of Brom Brothers Harriman right they were the members in the investment group
they capitalized the Union Bank of New York they set up uh the a foreign subsidiary of the Union
Bank of New York in the Netherlands called the the Bank of Shipping and Commerce headed up by
Fritz Thyssen they completely financed the construction of the international headquarters
of the Third Reich right absolutely stone cold verified right because there was their intention
to have the Germany rise to power again after the end of World War One uh and then they would
become the bulwark against Bolshevism in Europe because the Bolsheviks had taken over and announced
at Tsar Nicholas II at the end of World War One and withdrawn Russia from World War One uh and
the the Secretary of State under Wilson whose name was uh Robert Lansing Robert Lansing
was married to the oldest daughter of John W. Foster who was the grandfather of of John Foster
Dulles and Alan Dulles that he was the Secretary of State in in 1893 that that over through the
Hawaiian Islands or through Guam their whole plan was to have Germany stand astride all of Europe
as the bulwark against Bolshevism and they would go westward out into the Pacific and they would
develop the entire Asian market that was what Brown Brothers Harriman was all up to that's what
they were going to be doing they were funding the rise of the Third Reich to control uh Germany
and what they did you love this one what they did is uh Robert Lansing who was his son-in-law
right of John W. Foster or uh yeah that uh that uh he is Secretary of State under
under Wilson uh is the one that dispatched the foreign missionary foreign uh expeditionary
force into Russia to try to crush the Bolsheviks that there was a straight up military operation
run by the United States to send a foreign military expeditionary force into Russia
to try to crush the Bolshevik revolution in the cradle which you almost never hear about the
reason I know about it because I had gov 122 from Henry Kissinger at Harvard College he was my
professor in foreign United States American foreign policy so we know about this right
and so John W. Foster his son-in-law Robert Lansing is the one that ordered them in to try to
crush the Bolshevik revolution and he is the guy that supervised the treaty the Treaty of Versailles
in 1918 right and he took his two nephews who were John W. John Foster Dulles and Alan Dulles
who were the grandsons of John W. Foster that he was their maternal grandfather right and
he put them into they were on the staff of the Versailles Treaty negotiation they're the ones
that drafted into the Versailles Treaty the reparations demands against Germany okay and
so they imposed the reparations demands on Germany had lost World War one and then what they did is
they turned around and negotiated loans from the people that were in Brown Brothers Harriman the
investors to pay give loans to the German government to pay the reparations which were being paid to
corporations who had lost property in the war okay and then what they did is in exchange for the
loans they took stock in their major war industry the Krupp ball bearing factories and IG Farben
chemical corp right so these guys ended up owning major shares of the war industry in Germany and
what they were doing is financing the rebuilding of the entire military machine of Germany at the
same time they were actually funding through the Union Bank of New York in the internet the the
Bank of Shipping and Commerce in the Netherlands building and financing the entire rise of the
Third Reich to establish them as the bulwark against Bolshevism in Europe when they turned
their attention westward to go out into the Pacific and take over the Hawaiian islands and Guam
and the Marshall Islands etc marching their way on to Asia so they could develop the Asian markets
there that's what they call the China lobby that's the group that was at Brown Brothers Harriman
and the reason it's so important is because when when Kennedy was talking about disassembling the
warheads of the nuclear arsenal of the United States along with Russia's that totally freaked
them out because they knew that they needed to have the nuclear weapons not against Russia
against China because China could put a billion men in uniform in the field against them as they
showed them at Incheon in Korea they had already showed the and so that's that's what they were
worried about okay but also this was the time this was a specific time when we had the most nuclear
weapons over the least that's right in Russia was willing to to disband all the Russian missiles
in China was agreeing to never build any any missiles if the United States would just stop
building them and would disarm and and just like with poison gas at the end of World War one the
muster gas don't do this anymore it's completely you know a violation of all the the rules of war
you know it's a complete violation of the just war theory nuclear weapons are inherently designed
to destroy civilian populations by the millions you know it's a complete and total violation of
the the just war theory and we wrote about this at Jesuit headquarters when I was there as general
counsel in their social ministry office Brian Hare wrote a major piece about the the just war
theory and we got the Jesuit order to agree to condemn the mere possession of nuclear missiles
as a mortal sin because it's inherently designed to violate the the premises of the just war theory
oh this is a little more complex than you need but the bottom the bottom line is that
we've been on top of this for years of monitoring what these people have been doing
okay and that's what they did uh in that so that whole operation when when Kennedy uh being so
traumatized that the coming right to the brink of thermonuclear holocaust and started exchanging
the letters with khrushchev to disassemble the the nuclear warheads of the United States
nuclear arsenal and all of russia's these guys said that's it this guy's got to go we can't leave
him in place right because he's going to have another whole year to do this and that's why
they ordered the killing uh and the fact is the team was there it was fully prepared fully trained
they had maintained uh a an arms length relationship from them it wasn't tracked directly to the
white house unless somebody ratted out richard nixon right and so so what happened is when
kennedy ends up getting killed and people said holy shit it's the s-force that killed him the agency
rolled right into place it started covering up everything started destroying evidence started
lying started doing everything because they were terrified that they'd be blamed for killing the
president and richard nixon did the same thing he was terrified that he was going to get blamed
for killing the president you know and so what happened is linden johnson linden johnson reached
out to to uh warren url warren the chief justice of the supreme court and said we need to have you
head up the warren commission to investigate the assassination but the one thing you can't do
do not reveal the fact that there was an assassination team that was in the field to kill
fidel castrow because if that ever leaks out people are going to think that castrow found out
about the assassination team that the kennedys put together to kill him and probably killed him
and if they do that we're going to be into world war three and that's how he got real warren to
agree to chair the warren commission and who he put on it to run the commission is alan dellis yeah
why did they get alan dellis to run the commission because he would be able to keep everything
totally total keep it locked down right absolutely and that's and that's what they did you know philips
rodriguez wasn't a part of that team that killed kennedy though right yes he was stop no that's
what i just got there telling you he was on the s force it was the s force he was there in dealie
plaza yeah yes he was yeah as was ed landsdale as was as was rip robertson there are photographs of
rip robertson standing right there are there photographs of philips there no then how do we
know for sure he was there because he was a major part of the s force yeah but we have no proof he
was actually there there are no photos no that if you don't have photos doesn't mean you don't have
the proof i mean the fact is it does no no oh wait oh you need but you need other kind of evidence
you need other evidence to get portrayal all kinds of evidence of who the s force was you know
and there's one guy remaining living who could tell everybody about it you know but uh he hasn't done
it yet what what evidence do we have that he was that philips was actually there though because
rafio chichi kentaro told us so oh oh rafio kentaro because kentaro was there too in the
moralis the indian was the guy that pulled the trigger that killed him from the from the null
that was roger moralis he was the the a shooter for the for the s force you know what did philips say
when you deposed him well he wouldn't talk about it all the all they ever said all they ever said
is you know i take the fifth amendment i take has he ever acknowledged anything about the uh the
team that was sent to cuba to kill castro or he's never even admitted that he was in charge of the
elopango operation providing weapons to the contras really yeah are you aware of the uh
the kiki kamarena case oh sure i am sure i am do you think philips was part of that was there
well the it was the operation kandor that killed him and kandor was based out of pemex out of the
mexican national oil corporation at uh uh jose diaz sorano yeah jose diaz sorano who's the head
of pemex was the former business partner with george bush senior in the zapata oil corporation
and they they hid out the assassination team in pemex's security department that's where rafiel
chichi cantero and in philips rodriguez you know ask philips about that you know ask him about
what what what were you doing in the pemex security department in mexico city you know
and and that's kandor that's that whole operation the assassination teams that were deployed in
south america were all run out of pemex you know and the reason they wanted to get a kiki kamarena
is because he was like being really loud about i ran contra well no the drug it was the the drug
smuggling stuff i mean kiki kamarena was the major dea guy he was a close he was a close friend of
michael levin's michael levin was one of the the top undercover guys in dea you know and kiki
kamarena was killed for that reason but there there's a there's a guy at because but because he
was stopping the drugs right because it was very and that's right we wanted we didn't want that to
be stopped not that we didn't want them to be stopped they were running them right right i i
interviewed face to face the deputy cia station chief uh joseph berkholder smith who sat right
there and told me all about the details he had been actually brought to a meeting you know in
mexico city by uh by uh what's his name the the guy that was head of the dfs in mexico uh
nasa haro oh pull your mic closer yeah yeah he was he was he was the joseph berkholder smith
was like this too joseph berkholder smith was brought to a meeting actually by by nasa haro
who was the head of the dfs in mexico uh and sat down right in i've been a place called salt uh in
the northern northern tip of uh of argentina you know uh sat in the meeting with these guys sitting
right at the table this big oaken table with the big stone fireplace behind him with the swastika
on the mantle you know in there and said look it he said you know uh there's there's been some
discussion that uh tom polgar has just been made the new head of the station here in mexico city
and it's not clear whether you're going to be left on joe joseph berkholder smith it's not
clear you're going to be left on as his deputy so what we wanted to do is have a talk with you
you know we have spent a lot of time and energy creating a major cocaine cartel down in columbia
and we're going to be moving the cocaine into the united states and a portion of those funds
are going to be used to help finance our war without boundaries against your enemies and ours
and we want to make sure that if you're going to be left in place that you aren't going to do anything
to interfere with that and joseph berkholder smith said to me look danny he said i don't know what i'd
ever done in my life that would have led them to believe that i would have gone along with that
and i said how about being the deputy cia station chief in mexico city for a start
and he turned to dick billings who was sitting there with me uh who was the chief of staff of
the house select committee on assassinations by that time and he said hey i thought this guy was
going to cooperate with us and dick said look i just met the guy you know so that's those are all
detailed stories of people with firsthand knowledge of of what it is that they've been doing you know
now they all that they feel perfectly righteous about it you know i don't doubt that the rafael
chichi kintero and in phyllis rodriguez and morales and rilando martinez and and ricardo
chavez and all the guys that were on the shooter team thought that they were totally righteous
you know and doing what they were doing they were they they ended up stopping the guy who was a
in their mind a total whoremonger you know and a lying sack of shit who was president you know
who basically basically father bought him uh the you know the offices that he got that's how they
viewed about canada yeah that's how they viewed kennedy you know uh and he was getting set to
use his power to disassemble the nuclear warheads of our entire nuclear arsenal you know and so
that they they said you know button put the button on this guy wow you are like you're like a a walking
historical information machine well i was at jesuit headquarters for 10 years you know i mean
they didn't get their reputation for nothing the amount of knowledge you have is incredible man
it is it is amazing to sit here and listen to you talk about some of this stuff there are very
there are very few people who have got direct firsthand information directly from santos
traficanti you know about the details of putting together the entire assassination team now and
what his direct relationship is to the to the watergate burglary you know nobody nobody knows
about the the the sequentially numbered bills in bernard barker's pocket coming from the bonko
international except for except for mark uh mark flint you know that uh he knew he knew it right you
know and he's deep throat wow that's who he is you know mark felt you know that's the guy why
they call him deep throat that that was the nickname that that bob uh uh woodward gave him
because he was the he was the source of deep throat in the watergate burglary he's the one
that kept talking meeting with with bob woodward in the garage and pointing him towards a follow
the money he said follow the money and as soon as they got to the money and they discovered the
money that that had been deposited into the committee to reelect the president
had been deposited down in the the ogario account in mexico city in the bonko international
you know they said oh bingo we've got uh we've got richard nixon's president a committee to
reelect the president funding the people in the watergate hotel that's it bingo that we're stopping
right there and they never went in deeper and discovered what the hell's the story on that
particular fund that's down there it would lead right back to the assassination team
that killed the president you know and and they and they settled for it bob woodward in in uh in
bernstein settled for the half a story i mean it was a big hat a big story that they they got
funds that were had been given a check from uh what's his name he wrote the check that went
into the bank uh into the into the bonko international down in mexico city you know
from the committee to reelect the president now mcconan was uh had a cia yeah he needed
no shit he didn't they they didn't tell him anything but was helms before cone richard helms
no helms helms got helms helms got uh got indicted you know for lying for lying to the to the
congress for that he he was lying in saying that that uh one of the things he lied about is that
they the phoenix program uh only killed 20 000 people whereas they killed vastly more than that
for money with the phoenix program phoenix program was the political assassination program that was
run by theodore shackley who was the ci station chief in saigon that uh in that they were using
money from the vang pao the the drug money from vang pao to finance the phoenix program uh in helms
helms the the man who who guards the secrets you know he's the one that committed perjury uh to
to congress to hide the family jewels uh ended up getting ousted he was also the guy who burned
all the mk ultra documents right well the it was under him it was it was him personally yeah
just like just like to see i burned all the videos of the uh abu grab torture sessions right you know
they were ordered by congress to cough them up and they burned them all right you know i mean so
that that what we're dealing with is a national security state that's out of control here you
know and they're they're they're completely self-righteous about what it is they think they're
doing you know and uh you know that anybody who grew up in the same way that phoenix rodriguez
did and rafael chichi cantero and those guys you know their their whole world is you know uh is
they're knowledgeable about the what they view as the corrupt nature of kennedy you know i mean
they are all sharing the stories about you know i'm fucking anybody who would bend over and you
know and he was on drugs and he was you know he his back was out and he was half on drugs all you
know that's that's the kind of stories that are going around inside all about him you know and
chichi cantero and and and uh these guys were sitting at the kitchen table with my guy gene
weaton who was the chief of security for the u.s military mission in tehran uh and who was a he
was supplying airplanes to the contras to fly the drugs and guns around you know sitting right at the
table listening to them talk about the plans that they had to kill the president
that is nuts man yeah but it's not that's the problem it really is man like like how do you
you're what is your world view of the united states of america and the security state and
like the the whole military industrial complex and where we're headed are you at all optimistic
with all this information that you know and the people that you've talked to and the cases
that you've been involved with like and and even going back to like the the um the pentagon papers
like look at where we're at now in the media like i'm sure you're familiar with the twitter files
right oh yes where do you think all this is headed well that i think to be pointed uh i think that
the ufo issue presents the greatest possible opportunity for unveiling the length to which
the national security state has gone in taking over uh the control of the government of the united
states uh and that they're fascists you know that i mean that the people who created the central
intelligence agency you know uh they're they're fascists uh and they they uh believe that the
the most effective way of running the government is to deploy the instrumentalities of the state
on behalf of the interests of the major corporations they believe that what's good for general motors
is good for the country right uh and that if you can and they've got a night you ought to get a copy
of the 1992 united states defense department policy planning guidance document that was put out directly
after garbachev stood back you know garbachev disassembled the soviet union on march 3 on
december 31st of 1991 he released all of them the following monday you know uh paul wolfowitz
you know under dick cheney who's the secretary of defense for for george bush senior you know
convenes his his group of people in the west wing of the white house and and you got paul wolfowitz and
uh and uh it's under dick cheney you got uh scooter liby you got uh dug five you got richard
pearl you know they're all there and they're all the special group inside the defense department
right under dick cheney under bush and they draft up the 1992 united states defense department policy
planning guidance document and they're saying oh good the soviet union has stood back out of the cold
war they've stand stood down uh and now we're going to have all kinds of pressure put on us
to try to cut the military budget because for the last 50 years you know we've been justifying
spending now up to 700 billion dollars a year on the military because we have to stop the soviet
union from taking over the world right and that's the rationale that's been put forth for all this
time for this massive military program you know the united states the united states is spends more
money on the military every year than the next 10 countries in the world it's insane right we've
got 800 military bases all around the world you know and we're invading places all over the place
most people don't even know about like everyone focuses on ukraine and and what's going on in
palestine but there's there's so many other wars that are going on yeah and and and what i'm saying
is is that the that uh this this operation uh has that this this from the age of the robber barons
in the age of the robber barons that began in 1868 after the american civil war right by 1872
they had actually come up with this concept of creating this new private private shareholder
owned corporations uh in that this this business entity actually immunizes the owners of the company
from any personal liability whatsoever for whatever the corporation does that that's an
essential element of the creation of the new business vehicle of the private shareholder
owned corporation so that the corporation itself is the only thing that's liable for anything the
corporation does is the shareholders are completely immunized and the the the board of directors are
personally immunized okay and even the management people are personally immunized you can only
sue the company itself because the company itself is a person you see now it wasn't the
citizens united was the first time that they came up with that idea you know that was what the whole
fight was about back in 1934 when the the whole court packing issue with franklin rooseville
when he was offering to was threatening to appoint more people to the supreme court
it was because the united states supreme court kept ruling consistently the corporations were
were persons who were entitled to fundamental rights under the under the constitution and therefore
you couldn't interfere with you couldn't uh you couldn't regulate their advertising because it's
free speech you know and you couldn't interfere with their right to contract which is a constitutional
right that people have uh the freedom of the contract is right in the constitution and so
therefore you can't support labor unions because it's interfering with the right of the corporation
to negotiate one-on-one with people for a contract for their employment and they were ruling this
over and over again all right after the 1929 crash you know that by 1932 when when franklin
roosevelt was elected franklin roosevelt started issuing all these executive orders
trying to get control over the excesses of the corporate and what investors in the corporations
that had run roughshod over things right and so what he was doing is issuing all kinds of
federal executive orders and this group of people brown brothers herriman people the duponts
particularly uh were engaged in planning a military overthrow of franklin roosevelt in 1934
that whole thing with general butler uh that he he was they tried to recruit him to mount a major
military coup against the minister against the united states government so i mean this thing
comes right out of the robber barons who had created this particular device uh this business
vehicle of a private shareholder owned corporation that was deemed to be its own independent person
and liability ran just to the corporation and all the rest of the people were immunized against
any personal liability and their their mandate was to maximize the short-term profits uh for the
purposes of giving shareholders uh you know uh income from the income that they made and that
vehicle is a sinful structure that's what we designated as a judgment it's an inherently sinful
structure because it's driven by greed and self-interest and avarice right uh and in in fact you can
be dismissed as a member of the board of a of a corporation if you take into account the public
interest right it's called the doctrine of ultra varies it's called you know uh and it's a it's a
specific doctrine it's in the books of the law over corporations and so what happened is those
corporations between 1872 when they first established that as a new business vehicle between 1872 and
1898 uh when mckinley uh came to power in 1898 and uh his uh mark hannah was his uh his uh his kind
of major advisor uh in mark hannah uh said said that the greatest ambition that any human being
could possibly have to is earn as much money as he possibly can before he dies that's that's the
quote from mark hannah and that's that's that's uh mckinley right and they had they had risen to
the power in 1898 where it became the age of the robber barons right and it was also not coincidentally
the age of american imperialism and it's called that in history books it's the age of american
imperialism and it was the the person who sort of supervised that whole age of american imperialism
was john w foster who was the secretary of state and he's the one that that as i said over through
the Hawaiian islands guam the marshall islands all moving out across the pacific that was what
their whole objective was and they were operating right out of brown brothers herriman who were in
charge of organizing the verici treaty you know under robert lansing you know who was the son-in-law
of of john w foster who was the grandfather of john foster delis and alan delis and alan delis
was the legal counsel for brown brothers herriman where these families were all together cooperating
in planning how to take over the american government and how to put the instrumentalities of the
government at the behest of the interests of the private corporations that's why they sent
the united states military expeditionary force in 1903 into nicaragua to overthrow the government
down there on behalf of united fruit who was a client of solomon and cromwell solomon and cromwell
was the law firm that that alan delis and john foster delis were members or partners in being
legal counsel for brown brothers herriman that's who these people are i mean these people get up
and put their pants on one leg at a time just like anything else if you investigate them closely
enough you'll find it if you can remember the names of everybody if you can remember the pattern
of where they are oh yeah there they are again you know oh here they are again here's the bank
that's they're the ones doing it you know and so we know who they are we know what their lineage is
and we know that these are the people for example that in 1945 in 1945 december after the dropping
of the atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki remember the the the nazis in germany had surrendered
in may of 1945 but the japanese had not uh and so the japanese knew that the entire allied forces
were going to turn their attention to japan right and so they started removing all the
gold and silver and platinum and jewels and stuff that had been garnered over a 30 year period
by the japanese empire had been sweeping all through south asia you know uh in in taking all
the gold and silver and platinum and everything and bringing it into japan as their war chest
for the major imperial war that the japan was getting ready to mount okay and they had all
those riches that were there so what they did is they smuggled them out and they moved them
into the philippines and they buried them in 176 separate uh tranches uh in the philippines like
you know like 700 feet deep the huge mine shafts that they built you know and and they did it with
slave labor uh and the people who dug the mine shafts and they buried 100 the japanese were
doing this japanese were doing this 100 100 uh billion dollars each each trove 176 troves of
100 billion dollars each in gold but i mean the photographs that you can see in the their their
shoulder high stacks of gold bullion as big as football fields you can see them and they buried
them under the in the philippines right and uh in the g2 the g2 for the united states army in manila
was uh ed landsdale edward landsdale had been an oss guy and truman disbanded the oss as soon as the
nazis surrendered in may of 1945 so he just he distributed everybody from the oss out around
the world right and ed landsdale ended up being the g2 in manila and he knew that the guy who was
in charge of gathering all of that gold and silver together was a guy named general yaku shima uh
general yaku shima was the guy who ran a thing called the golden lily was the chinese codename
for the for the unit that was into pilfering all the gold and silver and pall platinum all through
asia and bringing it into japan and he supervised the burying of these 176 troves in in the philippines
and what happened is ed landsdale when general yaku shima turned himself in surrendered after the
japanese surrendered he kidnapped the driver for yaku shima and had him tortured to find out where
some of these treasures were and they actually they actually found 12 of these out of the 176
1.2 trillion dollars at 32 dollars an ounce of gold which is now like 1400 dollars an ounce right
and what they did is they they punched one of those uh those and he uh yeah there they are
that uh this this is the people people people don't understand it yamashita general yamashita
is the guy that that stored all this gold there and ed landsdale got his hands on 12 of 12 of these
troves for 1.2 trillion dollars in true he had truman macarthy macarthur general macarthur
set up a private they set up a private trust under truman uh that was run by brown brother's
harriman for 1.2 trillion they just took all of it they they took the 12 of them the 1.2 trillion
dollars and they shipped it all out and they put it in the international credit and international
credit bank in janiva switzerland and issued gold certificates on it to pay for covert operations
you know completely independent from congress never told congress about it at all to this day
i've never told congress about it you know and they've been using it as covert operations
they still got some yo they got they got all of it still they haven't run through i mean no
because what they've did is they issued gold certificates they didn't they didn't have to
do anything with the gold they left it there what they did is that issued gold certificates
they're just like bearer bonds and they they use them for cash and it's a it's a major source of
funds for the covert operations wow you know i mean that's what we've been dealing with all this
time that's how people kept saying how in the world do these people know all this stuff you know
they were going crazy because we set up but we set up the christic institute out of washington
dc out of the jesuit headquarters we set up the christic institute as a 501c3 public interest
law firm and i had access to all these investigators out of bailey's office you know uh we had like
30 class a licensed gun toaders that were investigators for us you know and we're in the
public interest domain because most all of these guys want to be good guys you know and that they
gotten they've gotten perverted you know they they come in to try to try to do do right and
they discover that the people they work for major corporations you know cia or government agencies
that they're corrupted and so we set up the christic institute which gave everybody a chance
to be good guys you know and try to just find out what's going on and what they're doing you know
and if you disagree with what they're doing you know then tell us you know so that uh you know uh
so so the bottom line is we've been doing we've been in this business now for like 50 years
you know and we ran the christic institute for 20 years in washington dc we've run the
remaro institute you know for 20 years in california because george hw bush ordered the
revocation of our 501c three tax exempt charter for the christic institute because of our bringing
the iran contra federal criminal racketeering charges against the off-the-shelf enterprise
and we just exposed everything about them and they're drug smuggling and the assassination programs
and everything uh and uh and when the judge in miami dismissed our case because he he excluded
four eyewitnesses who in in the case who could verify this case we brought under the federal
criminal racketeering act he dismissed the case uh and and and george bush contacted his politically
appointed head of the internal revenue service and directed him to yank our 501c three tax exempt
charter on the grounds that nobody had been ultimately criminally convicted of the charges
that we made against them even though six of them had already been indicted by the special
prosecutor laurence walsh right for exactly what we charged them with and then he pardoned them
after he was beaten in the 1992 election in november by by you know bill clinton but more
importantly by ross perot who took 19 of the vote away from george bush uh because ross perot this
guy i was flying around in his lurchet with him telling him all about this and in ross perot is
the guy that brought the complaint to the fbi to bill wedster and that's why that's why they
initiated the investigation of the iran contra people and so so ed mese caught his hair on fire
and freaked out and ran in and held an immediate press conference going oh what do you know faith
in begota we discovered that there's this young renegade lieutenant colonel oliver north who's
run off and basically gone recruiting old retired military people you know on the golf courses around
virginia and set up this kind of off the shelf enterprise oh you know we better have a special
prosecutor appointed in i ed mese will draft up the charter to limit their investigation to
whether the president directly authorized the transfer of the profits that were generated by
the sale of tow missiles to the hezbollah to the contras uh you know under adolfo calero uh whether
he did that you know and whether the president authorized that in writing and if he did then
he could get in trouble but if he didn't then we're all okay and so he crafted the the the uh
he crafted the charter for the special prosecutor in the in the uh iran contra case so narrowly
that he thought he was going to get away with it and not only that but the person they selected
to be the special prosecutor to investigate it was laurence walsh you know a noted republic
and it turns out laurence walsh was the laurence walsh was the senior partner in crow dunlevy
which is the law firm we kicked the absolute out of in the caron silkwood case for ten and a
half million dollars and they thought that he was just furious with us because we destroyed his
reputation as a law firm and we just mopped the floor with them in that case because we had everything
on him you know and uh and they picked him to be the special prosecutor and it backfired because
he knew we were right i mean he'd already paid the price for not understanding that we knew what
we were doing and so we were the very first ones contacted by laurence walsh to fill him in on what
was going on and he indicted the shit out of these people it was going after all of them
and he was going after george bush senior because who was totally involved in it you know george
george bush who was the vice president under under reagan is the one who coordinated the whole
off-the-shelf enterprise as the head of the 54 12 committee just like i just like nixon had been
under eisenhower he was the head of the 54 12 committee as the vice president in nixon's nixon's
national security or uh bush's national security advisor donald p greg was having direct face-to-face
meetings with felix rodriguez okay who was running the elopango air operations delivering the weapons
and smuggling the the cocaine right on the same airplanes in fact the head of the dea took photographs
of them loading the cocaine onto the planes and gave them to us you know so that we had him another
guy i've had on here who i have i'm nervous you might know who he is is rick prado i've heard
of rick prado but i don't i've not interviewed him yeah okay he was not um working directly with uh i
don't think he was working with felix but he knows felix yeah and uh rick was sent down to
honduras to train the sandinistas for the contras no the contras the contrast the contras yeah he
was sent down under jack singlop right yeah he was sent down there to train the contras yeah
and there's prado yeah and uh yeah and he was you know part of that whole paramilitary operation
and um after that he was actually sent back to cia and put through the whole spy spy school
and then he went down to um costa rica yeah for sure the southern border of nicaragua and like
doing all kinds of that's where hull's ranch was that's john hull's ranch in costa rica
where they flew the stuff in and out of all the time that was the guy yeah he was there
doing all kinds of crazy shit yeah no he was i've done his deposition too
really yeah oh my lord you've been everywhere not everywhere but just enough to be able to tell
what's going on yeah one of the things i think about a lot is
is if the military or some of these military contractors had information or had technology
that would render them useless who or render render who them that would render any sort of
nuclear weapon or any sort of war machine completely useless right like if there was
some sort of technology they had that they didn't fully understand how to use
that we knew was real right not even i'm not even talking about where it was from like say it was
who knows where it was from let's let's not pretend this from the ufo's right let's pretend
let's just say okay let's just say they found it washed up on a beach somewhere and and we had
multiple of these things and we knew other countries had these things too yep
what would they do if they if they had the technology and they knew if
whatever was whatever is behind the technology would completely change the world and it would
completely change the dynamic of nation states right like if if if war was no longer a driving
factor and and it would destroy their business model because that's how they survive is is from
developing weapons and doing all this blue sky research on how to do all this sci-fi shit that
DARPA is doing it makes sense that they would want to keep it a secret and i don't know what it
would take to make that stuff come to light and i don't see i don't see them letting go of it
well the problem is it's even worse than that it's one step worse than that that in the 1992
united states defense department policy planning guidance document that i told you about that they
draft it up you know starting on the monday morning after the dissolution of the soviet union
what they did is they put this document together and they said that the reason that we don't want
to step back and reduce our military budget just because the soviet union has been disbanded now
and that we've been rationalizing the 700 billion dollars a year on the grounds that we had to
protect ourselves against them the reason that we want to have we want to increase the military
budget because now we have the chance to establish full spectrum dominance right over the planet
and the purpose of this will be to maintain quote to maintain our continued privileged access
to the strategic raw materials needed by our major corporations okay because that's what they do
and they view that as they are roam they are the aggressor right you asked me what my idea
about the national security is they are the aggressors on the planet okay and what they're
doing is they're working at the behest of the major corporations and the wealthiest families that
own the shares of stock it's just as bad as you think it is you know they view their they view
their job as securing their continued privileged access to the strategic raw materials i've said
and had direct conversations with the people that'll tell you that if there's some third world
country that is sitting on some sort of major resource that turns out to be of real value
economically or militarily for us if we don't go get it first china or russia will go get it
so we'll go get it first and that's aggressive war that is the violation of every single premise
of a just war theory you are the aggressor you are the bad guy you know that that's i had the
experience when i got ready to leave to go to college i grew up with my my aunt and uncle
and my uncle was the head of the republican county committee up in more than county up in
northern new york right and i'm getting set to leave to go down to boston to go to college
he brings me out he's the head of the so he's the civil defense director for the whole county
and he goes out and we stand in our front yard uh and from our front yard you look north into
canada and for a hundred miles all there are is forest the adirondack forest preserve right
and uncle jim says to me danie he says you're going down to college now i don't want you to
become a communist you know going down there he said you know i want you to look out here now
there's going to be a day will come when the russians are parachuting into our hometown
and i want you to commit to me right now that if the when the russian when the russians
parachute into our town that you will fight against them and i said look jim i said russians
are going to be parachuting into our hometown i said but i'll tell you what i will do i will take
an oath to protect the constitution of the united states against all enemies foreign and domestic
right and then i left okay i go back down to go to college right i mean before i get to harvard
college i'm in special forces right for two years right in the fifth special forces and i'm out at
fort devins we're getting said to do the halo jump you know the high alt dude look we get said to do
the halo jump they bring the speck four from a fifth army uh special forces and he's sitting there
telling us look okay now you gotta you're gotta remember now uh you know when you're you jump
into the night you know you're up at like 38 000 feet you jump out you know your time you're dropping
he said when you drop in he said uh you got to make sure anybody who sees you come in
you got to kill them immediately and bury them with your chute because they were trained to
drop in behind the lines in vietnam right and and he said and i said i'm standing there with our
unit and i say well what if it's women or children kill them he said and bury him with your chute
we're the f***ing russians i said that's exactly what uncle jim was hypothesizing of them jumping
into our f***ing neighborhood right and here we are going 8 000 miles away jumping into the
neighborhood of people that have been there for 5 000 years and we're jumping into their
neighborhood and i'm sitting here being told at fort devins you know in special forces that
you jump in and you kill the women and children if you have to and bury them with your chute
and i turned around right then and i walked right out of the place turned around walked away
and cat and camber mark commander said she in where the f*** do you think you're going i turned
around i said don't look at somebody around here is f***ing nuts i said and it ain't me
and i turned around walked out and never went back you know they freaked out and drafted me and
and you know all that s*** and i ended up going to harvard college f*** you i said i go to harvard
college and i studied american foreign policy under hendry kissinger i studied all about the
vietnam war you know i got to be one of the point briefers from harvard law school to the united
senate briefing them on the cooper church amendment as to how they could constitutionally cut off all
the funds for the vietnam war right and i ended up being a lawyer for the pentagon papers case
to reveal all of this so we could stop the f***ing war right and so i i took this personally you
know this is a violation of everything that we've been taught you know what these people are doing
is a violation of everything that we've been taught they are the f***ing bad guys they are the
bad guys and they're decent guys that go into the military because you know they need a job
or they need training and they get tasked to do all this stuff and by the time they get
buried into this this military culture you know all they're doing is blindly doing whatever it is
they're told you know and they invade places and kill people you know and then they end up
justifying killing somebody because they killed my buddy you know and here you are eight thousand
miles away what are we doing invading the middle eastern oil fields it's just completely obvious
we invaded the middle eastern oil fields based on a complete absolute fabricated lie
this Saddam Hussein was in possession of nuclear weapons and we go ho hum oh well okay i guess that
was a big fat lie we've been in kill tens of thousands of people you know they spent you
hundreds and hundreds of lives of american men and women you know for what to occupy the middle
eastern oil fields why so that we could control the middle eastern oil for our country and keep china
from getting it okay right so i mean that's what's happening here you know so that's the
answer to your question what do you think about all this national security state right i think the
national security state is fascist i think that they are devoted to the proposition that the the
entire uh the entire uh instrumentalities of the state should be put at the disposal of the private
interests of corporations you know and that that is fascism that's exactly what mosolini wrote his
major essay about on fascism you know that is exactly what the what the idea of fascism is
okay and that's what they're doing and they're justifying aggressive wars you know to go get
the resources because somebody else would do it and they keep on buffaloing everybody that the
soviet union was planning on taking over the world you know that's our job as as george carl used to
say you know that's our job you know and that's what they're doing they're attempting to establish
full spectrum dominance over the planet through 800 military bases through over a trillion dollars a
year now a trillion dollars a year in major military operations you know with with with
young men and women of complete good faith that are americans have been raised believing in the
fundamental rights of the constitution in liberty and democracy and all that stuff and they're being
deployed to go kill people you know uh over oil you know that is so the donald trump and the guys
who say we are the number one producers of energy now in the world we are producing more oil than
saudi arabia yeah you know and who's there are allies saudi arabia you know uh so it's uh
you know that that's what i think you know and that's why i went to the jesuits to have to be legal
counsel for them because they they're the ones that are devoted to trying to instill the fundamental
judeo christian social ethics that we've all been taught as young men and women you know and in our
high school civics courses and everything else our job is to make that stuff real you know and you
can you can hold them up to it you can confront them with it you know uh to say look here's the
promises that we've been made here's the promises we've been made all through our raising being
raised in high school and college and everything else you know and we intend to do that and you
know and that's why we're still alive is because the guys say wait a second you know these kids
actually believe this stuff you know that's that's who they that's who we are and they say who the
hell are these people you know they're getting all this information it would feel shabrigus
they said how how i hate that we keep bringing him up no they said they said they said that that
catch this uh oliver north oliver north believed and i i know this because he told he told uh
ross perot this that they believed the the source of our information in the iran contra case was
felix rodriguez really that's what they thought and they were going to have to try to get rid of
him as the head of the elopongo air operation because we had such good information about the
we knew the flight numbers we knew the tail numbers we knew we had the shipping invoices over the
serial numbers on the weapons those people man i mean we had these guys dead to rights and they
said it has to be felix okay it wasn't it was chichi who was his number two who was just giving us
the kind tarot yeah because he was talking all the time to uh to gene weaton and gene weaton
was working with us because he got really pissed off he given his airplanes he gave him like a
dozen of his his airplanes to fly uh weapons down to the contras he said you know fuck the
contras you know they're fucking you know they're the fuck they say and denises you know they're
all communists so he let them use his airplanes until he found out that they were flying cocaine
back into the united states on his airplanes uh in the in one of them crashed on the way back
and he got ready to file an insurance claim because he said no no no nurses don't do that
don't do that because if they send investigators to try to find the plane and they'll find it and
it's filled with cocaine and so gene got really pissed off uh and came to us came to us paul hovind
brought him to to meet with me paul hovind was a copter jock in vietnam you know and he ran the
the project on military procurement which i i chaired the fund for constitutional government
in washington dc uh and we had we instituted the fund for uh for military spending right
and we were overseeing the whole project on military spending to go after the five hundred
dollar coffee pots the three hundred dollar hammers you know the eight hundred dollar screw
drivers that they have all that shit you know and so we were doing we put together the project
on military procurement paul hovind was one of the uh consultants we had because he was an expert
on military hardware right and so he would tell us exactly what the like the bradley fighting machine
for example the bradley fighting machine you know if it took a direct hit a midships it would
totally blow up and kill everybody all around it uh because because because it was it could be defeated
with an armor piercing uh shell and it was loaded with with the military uh uh uh uh what do you
call it uh anyway provisions they killed they kept the the shells inside the tank you know and so you
you hit the bradley fighting machine it could go 60 miles an hour on the open highway but the fact
is it could it could it could be penetrated by one armor person shell it would blow up and kill
everybody all within like 150 yards of it which all the guys who are around it you know would get
killed you know and still they just kept pushing it forward because it was a multi-million dollar
project you know and so that i was i was uh uh there is the as the head of that program
we put that together we put together the uh the uh uh institute for corporate responsibility
which was the original whistleblower protection group for the fund for constitutional government
we did all that out of the fund for constitutional government when i was at the jesuit headquarters
i got recruited by the people to steward mott help fund that that thing so they asked me to become
the chair of it because they knew i was a serious person when it comes to the constitution right
and so we we set up all those different programs then you know and that's how i got to that's how
i got to meet paul hoven and paul hoven was at a meeting of the the heritage foundation if you
know what that is the heritage foundation is somewhere to the right of atilla you know and
they've got this foundation in washington dc where they're all you know they're the ones that built
the the entire uh was it a mandate for leadership that great big 500 page uh book that they gave to
ronald reagan when he became president and he instituted all those beliefs and stuff and and
and hoven was at one of these soirees they were having there and there and there was gene weaton
standing there at the bar drinking and they got talking back and forth and we didn't started crying
in his beer over the fact that his airplane had been shot down filled with cocaine oh no and so
paul hoven knew me because he was our consultant at the project on military procurement and so he
came to me he said dan he said i know that you guys have been looking into uh this weapon smuggling
operation going on down to the contras which everybody's denying is happening uh and you're
sure it is happening uh but i've got i've got a guy who i think may know something about it
so he sets up the meeting to in a safe house out in virginia and i go out and sit down with
with gene weaton uh in you know after probably half an hour 45 minutes he realized that uh
i knew a lot i knew a lot uh and that he became convinced that i was serious about this and i
was no spy for cuba or you know soviets or anybody i was just an absolute american who believed in
the constitution and had been given the privilege to go to harvard college and harvard law school
and harvard divinity school and i had all kinds of contacts because i've been in bailey's office
and i knew all kinds of stuff from being on the pentagon papers and so he agreed to work with us
because he was pissed off about what they were doing uh and that's how we learned that theodore
shackley who was the ci station chief in saigon was also the guy who put together the off the
shelf enterprise it wasn't oliver north at all it was theodore shackley who was the handpicked
head of covert operations for the cia worldwide by george hw bush when he was the director of the
central intelligence agency and this guy was the fucking protg of ryan hard galen who was the
head of the waffen ss third rike anti-soviet and anti-eastern block intelligence for the third
rike and this guy theodore shackley was his protg in in europe in the 101st counterintelligence
corps when when galen turned himself in at the end of world war two and shackley was his translator
and he went with him and translated stuff and brought him to fort hunt at the end of world war
two and helped persuade everybody to let him become the head of west german intelligence and so ryan
ryan hard galen who was the head of the waffen ss third rike anti-soviet and anti-eastern
block intelligence was the head of west german intelligence for 26 years and provided was the
primary source on intelligence against the soviet union to our united states central intelligence
agency and theodore shackley was was his protg it was in the original class of the central
intelligence agency along with michael harari who was chief of security for nary agon his drug
smuggling you know these are the guys that these are the guys that we're talking about here you
know and uh in what i'm saying is that i think that the ufo issue is is it's got the widest
constituency of any issue of public policy everybody everybody wants to find out about the
ufo's everybody wants to find out about the fact that there's extra trust from intelligence and
they're coming and going from the planet uh all the republican senators are in support of our bill
all the democratic senators in charge in support of our bill except for except for mcconnell mitch
mcconnell uh in one guy from alabama uh you know one one of the senators from alabama
all the other senators you know all 98 other senators are supportive of our 60 page bill
right you know and virtually all the members of the house uh you know i've got meetings with
aoc sitting there with uh with uh uh gates with matt gates sitting having cordial conversations
about how they agree that that the congress has the right to have all this information
because it's rotten and unconstitutional for this the the unelected people in the in the
military and in the intelligence community to be secreting this information what do you think
about the uh the story i don't know if you've i'm sure you've heard of it but annie jacobson
talks about in her book area 51 she has a source a major source from who was an e g and g engineer
yeah i know you g and g yeah he he told her uh he was like towards the very end of his life when
he was giving her information for her book but he said that the roswell crash was a drone piloted
by stallin um containing a uh a humanoid there was a guy a nazi guy that stallin got uh that was
like a i always forget his name but he was like a surgeon he was in charge of like doing all this
crazy like surgical experiments manipulating people and he did this surgical manipulation on
like kids with down syndrome and made them look like aliens and crashed them in there to so panic
and chaos in the u s what do i think about that and then hold on yeah and then um he she went back
towards the end of her research years later and she goes she goes um why wouldn't you say something
about this he's like this makes them look terrible if you guys found out the truth and could could
find evidence proving that stallin was behind this why wouldn't you do that and the e g and g
engineer said because we started doing the same thing he literally said that they started doing
the surgical stuff experimenting on kids it's all a total brain fart total i mean you can get
extraordinarily intricate stories by people who are total psychopaths uh and they're completely
convincing because they may even some of them believe it themselves it's not true i i i'm the guy
i'm the guy that helped uh expand the the telegram in the hand of general rehmie the the famous picture
of him kneeling down next to the weather balloon you know kneeling down there and you look at he's
got a telegram a cable in his hand you can see it i always saw i said that guy's got a f***ing cable of
some sort in his hand there i i you but you can't read it from the photograph right and so like 1995
i'm doing a talk giving everybody a briefing on the john matt case you know uh that was still
underway at that time i'm out at the international ufo congress out in loughlin nevada and a guy comes
up to me after i do my my briefing on the on the matt case and he says that mr shane he said uh
i've got something really important i need to talk with you about uh could you come up meet me up in
my room and i went uh i think i'd better bring somebody with me so i get into the friend of mine
if we go up uh and he says i think i've found the uh photographer from the roswell newspaper who the
editor called him at two o'clock in the morning after the july uh eighth you know headline banner
headline in the roswell paper that everybody's seen about flying saucer that they found a flying
saucer and it went out over the ap wires and everybody was going ballistic right and and he
gets a call at two o'clock in the morning from the editor of the paper and says that general
ramy has flown in from texas and he's demanding that he sent we send a photographer out right now
because they want to get the photographs uh uh and put them on the front page of the paper for
the morning and he goes out and here's ramy you know uh with uh uh with uh marcel and the rest of
guys and they're all still up and they've got a weather balloon kind of spread out on the floor
and he's kneeling down next to the weather balloon and he's got this cable in his hand you can see
the the telegram uh and so this guy says i think i may have found the the photographer that took
the picture and i said great i said if you if you can find out and it's the right guy see if he's
got the negatives if he's got the negatives we might be able to digitize them and blow these
things up and we can read the telegram right so he does he goes and finds the guy sure enough
it's the guy sure enough he's got the he's got the negatives sure enough we get him blown up and
digitized right and it says right in him we had to do some computer stuff with you know where the
consonants and vowels were to be able to fill in where some of the wrinkles were that were in the
thing but it says bring the disc to right field and bring the bodies okay now and so that we we
know that it was real it wasn't any weather balloon you know that and and all the guys the guys that
are there i mean they know what a weather balloon looks like well that story would fit in with the
e g and g engineer story it's not it's not even close to a weather balloon i mean this was a huge
crap he said it was a drone he said it was like a flying saucer that they literally piloted the
bodies anybody can make anything up anybody can make anything up and we've seen him i mean look
at cori good the guy what i told you about cori good went on and on for dozens of appearances he
went on and went into great detail about how we had interstellar craft yeah but this this sourced
he was completely he was a confidential source he was completely remained anonymous she never
named the guy or anything and she said that he like why would he admit the fact that he went and
did it to you do you realize how many people that have come to me to tell me that they knew
what the watergate burglar was about and uh and what the kennedy said who killed kennedy you know
and all that and the people hiding in the drain and all that shit i mean they go on and on and on
you know and and it's just that's what i'm saying why you have to have the ability to i mean we could
slap this guy on a on a psychological stress evaluator uh in you know this just that they
noticed that we've got we've got like a dozen witnesses uh who have who've participated in
that who saw the crash debris you know so and it's not a weather balloon at all you know and that
they that they and they've got they've got multiple bodies they've got multiple bodies you know and
they they didn't they didn't you know find a bunch of people that were kind of human mutants and
they kind of operated on them and put them in a in a weather balloon and flew or a drone and flew
they didn't even have drones then you know well they had the what was stuff the horton brothers
were working on the the horton have you seen the the flying saucer type object the horton brothers
developed well there there were a number of them that were were trying to be developed the the
russian they're the nazis were working on right exactly which may well have had been a result of
the the craft in 1933 that was recovered in in in italy so but but they weren't able they weren't
able to figure out the technology of this thing you know that uh yeah see that's it there so this
what are we looking at right here that's that's the telegram right there this is the telegram
that was in the guy's hand in the photograph ramey's right there see it yeah
oh wow see it that's not a weather balloon that's not a conversation about a weather
right no they're talking about the disk where does it say right patterson
says right field oh right field see that's what it was it was right field at that time it wasn't
right patterson oh wow let's take it to right field and here's here's all this stuff see
yep right field they've talked about we're gonna send out send out a weather balloon
story for every cover huh right yeah no yeah yeah it was definitely a uh it was definitely a cover
up yeah so and it's so and it's it's one of those it's one of those kind of things where
where you know not in a thousand years would they think that you can see this
would you would ever be able to see the telegram that he had in his hand right you know so i say
that nobody nobody's going to be smart enough to to do that to have a fake telegram in his hand
and think that you know 30 years later somebody's going to find the technology to read it
you know it's you know it's it's just like you know eventually we'll be able to
get the Zapruder film and we'll be able to have a technology to contract the heat signatures of
the bullets in in the emulsion on the negatives they're going we're going to be able to do that
and we'll be able to find the actual heat heat signatures of the bullets and so you'll know
exactly where the bullets came from yeah and by that time they'll all be dead and and you know
that's that's what is that what did i say steve however this book written oh this is okay this
is talking about the e g and g engineer right yeah uh in this book written by indy jacobson uh
respected investigator reporter offers such contrasting explanation of the for the roswell
mystery that i suggest you clutch something solid right now yeah this is what i explained to you
according to the telegraph jacobson suggests that the flying object crash into uh was an earthly
machine she also reported to suggest it was somewhere stalin a lot down here is where it gets
interesting um maybe it's right here she's in children stalin yeah yeah stalin apparently believed
that it could have been said they sent a plane full of these children created with the already
exiled ming mingel mingel that was the guy's name the nazi mingela mingela yeah mingela's help over
to the us in order to create mass hysteria however the remote piloted plane which wasn't a flying
saucer crashed but yeah so so the horton brothers and a bunch of these guys that were working with
the nazis they had all kinds of crazy sci-fi looking shit they were working on that looked like flying
saucers you know i mean what i'm saying is that we've got we've got 40 you know above top secret
witnesses testifying to the recovery of the ufo's you know and that these are not these are not
a craft made by the soviets or so it goes back to my my original question is if we have 40 of
these people do you really think we're going to get these people to let the cat out of the bag
they've already given it they've already given sworn testimony to the senate intelligence
committee under oath i'm talking about the the um the private contractors but tell i'm talking about
these these companies well that once once we get subpoena power to go after them and you know they
i can tell you you know that they that people all the time don't want to talk they have every in
any case you're going to do are going to lie or going to cheat and hide the stuff they're going to
do all that you have to have professionals that know how to get that stuff you know and as long as
the congress has made the decision that they're going to get it they'll get it you know now they'll
do everything in their power to try to stop it because it's worth trillions of dollars if they
can get the patents on on you know anti-gravity technology if they can get a patent on super
luminal speeds of a vehicle if they can get a patent on the metals that can withstand that that
kind of g-forces and stuff if they can do that it'll be worth trillions of dollars for them
right you know so they'll go to almost any lengths right to to refuse to do this so that that's why
we have to have the power of the institution of congress to be able to get behind this and
that's why you know it's a slow process of being able to bring these people on but we've
we've now gotten the virtually unanimous support from the the democratic and republican senators
and almost unanimous support from the members of the house you know but for these few guys you know
mike turner mike turner who is the head of the republican head of the of the intelligence committee
who comes from the tenth congressional district in Ohio right paterson right paterson
and and that is the chief field office for radiant technology you know that's where they are
and the other guy that he brought on is mike rogers who's the head of the the uh the armed
services committee in the house who comes from the second district in alabama right next door to
the redstone rocket range okay and that's the home office of of uh of radiant technology
and they've got the program which is called prompt global strike they're the ones that are
trying to use the technology of the craft to propel nuclear american nuclear missiles
that can be launched stateside and hit into the in the center of china or russia within two minutes
you know i mean and sure they'll do that i mean that's that's perfectly logical that they
they will they're they're you know the old sufi saying is when when a pickpocket meets a saint
all he sees are his pockets and so these these guys live in the world of as soon as they see
oh a crash ufo man we can make a weapon out of that that's exactly you know because that's their life
that's their job that's the prism through which they see everything so you can't really hold it
against them that they want to do that that's their mission what sort of terms do you think they'd be
willing to negotiate with to let the cat out of the bag or to let this to disclose all this stuff
like would you have to sell it look you can still control it you guys own it if you if you could if
you would give them the patents if you'd give them the patents on it and you'd let them own it for
in perpetuity so they could make trillions of dollars that they could they could be making
billions of dollars on every single craft that the united states built you know that use that
technology and and they could give the money to their shareholders so that they'd be all
could have more yachts you know or more country houses or or give their great great great great
grandchildren and nephews you know and Mercedes for their 16th birthday i mean these people are
completely insatiable because because they've got a hole in their soul you know i mean that they
they do not experience any kind of unitive experience i mean experientially that somehow
that the the universe is some kind of harmonic unified whole that they don't have any sense of
that at all everything is dialectical everything's confrontational that there's bad guys all around
all the time you know that they develop an entire world view uh in that they in what what does that
do to your to your mind and to your psyche when you have these secrets and you know about these
secrets and you know nobody else does only you and a very few people on earth know that this
shit exists i wonder like what that does to your worldview well it's i mean that the people who are
into power you know it's a it's a chakra it's you know it's a it's the third chakra the third chakra
in the human body is is you know rooted in power the the lust for power and control yeah uh and and
it uh it satisfies that you know people people feel privileged and you know people all i mean
if you if you have a superbowl ticket and get to sit in the box you know the head of the nfl with
them to watch the superbowl game you know why are people getting off on that why why why is that
exciting some people so much you know and other people are ho hum they don't care about that at
all you know but a worldview is extraordinarily important thing that's how i ended up at eventually
at hardwood doing any school is that you know that i'm in f. lee bailey's office you know i'll tell
you sorry i'm sitting in f. lee bailey's office right and uh it turns out that what had happened is
the uh this little old man who had owned a little mom pod grocery store in boston uh in in the north
end of boston you know uh friday afternoon two big no net guys come into his into his store and say
they want to sell him uh angelo fire insurance company you know and he said i don't need fire
insurance i've already got fire insurance and they said well you don't have kind of fire insurance
that'll keep your place from being burnt down next friday night and uh and he and he looked at them
like that and he just he just rolled up his sleeve and he said look it you see these numbers right
here the tattooed on my arm i got those at oshelitz he said you people don't fucking scare me at all
because i've been through the worst big mistake on his part because what they what they did is they
found out that he had a a daughter a single child who was like nine months eight months pregnant
with her first baby and they tracked her down on the mass pike and chased her down on the pike and
she pulled off the road and went into a phone booth to try to call the emergency call to get help
and they got out of the car and shot gunned her right through the glass and killed her
and and the baby and then she was dead and the the shit hit the fan and it was on all the newspapers
you know the boston globe all over the place right uh and uh one that killed her that uh that
well that was the angelo brothers mickey angelo you know gave the order to kill her you know and
i'm sitting in the office i'm sitting in the office with with uh with uh with lee bailey right
and uh i get a call from lee and he says danie he said uh have you seen the stuff in the papers
there about the the killing out on the pike i said yeah he says come on in here come on down
up so i go down the hall to his office i come down and here's al johnson who's the managing
partner at the firm uh and bat andy tunny who's uh andy tunny who is the head of the strangler
bureau that caught the dissolving the boston strangler right right bailey got appointed by
the court to defend him and bailey stole stole andy he was the head of the strangler bureau for
the massachusetts state police so they're sitting in the office right and uh and uh they're they're
saying oh yeah you see this thing you know i'm anticipating getting a call from mickey angelo
to ask us to defend him on this thing because what's happened here is catch this it's like
three four days after the killing and with all this roaring going on in all the news media
you know somebody drives past the place where she was killed like a hundred miles an hour and
tosses this guy out of the car and bounces down the highway and he's laying there dying beside the
highway uh and uh one of the masters state patrol highway patrol find him pull up and find him laying
by the road and they recognize him as one of tony of mickey angelo's people he says he said joy
just you know you're dying he said tell me tell me who did this who what's this about he says are
you the guy that pulled the trigger on this lady and he said yes i am he said well who who told
you to do it who gave you the order and he said mickey angelo and then they they bring the ambulance
they bring him to mass general and he survives he lives and so now they're gonna say they're
getting set to prosecute him and they're going to turn him on mickey angelo right and so so
lee calls me into his office and i'm sitting there with with with lee and al johnson and in bad indy
and we're sitting there uh and he said i'm anticipating he's probably going to call us
to try to retain us to represent him he said Danny you wrote your honor ceases at harvard college
right on like the fifth amendment in the right against self-incrimination so i said yeah i did
i was predicting the miranda decision and my thesis at the college you know and he says uh you
know so he says you know that uh i want you to stay here because i'm expecting a call from
in the door opens in his secretary says uh lee she said it's mickey angelo so i'm sitting there
in the office and he goes look there led led he goes over and he picks up the telephone
and you hear him say yeah mickey yeah yeah i saw that oh shit yeah that's really terrible yeah no i
hear you i hear you know no we'll yeah we'll do that we'll we'll represent you uh no that'll be
uh one million dollars cash uh anyways levy says and that's for us but for the investigation
thing you know the uh uh morality and associates that's another million dollars whoa no mickey uh
no way hey what mickey will f*** you too he said you know look at if you want to call and he slams
the phone down i'm like that and so he's sitting there and he's laughing and he's saying oh he says
look it's and he reaches he reaches in his fight he takes out his wallet and he takes out a hundred
dollar bill and he lays it on the table and he says a hundred bucks he calls back within 15 minutes
and al johnson reaches in his wallet it takes out a couple 50-dollar bills and he says okay
10 i'll take i got a hundred on 10 he'll call within 10 minutes and bad andy bad andy says i'll
take a piece of that he says look uh i'll i'll take the uh i'll take the five minutes i'll take five
minutes okay so and so bailey turns to me and he says dany you want a piece of this that's literally
you want a piece of this yeah yeah i said to myself what the f*** am i doing in this room
with these people i said you know i do not want to be here i you know and we'd already found out
that he was on index four anyway i already told you so i get up and leave the office right and uh
so a day later i'm sitting i'm sitting in my office in uh it must be five o'clock in the
afternoon so i mean in walks lee with mickey angelo he comes walking in uh in mickey and he
he says dany this is mickey angelo and angelo walks over six his hand out at me like that
and i sit there and i just look at him and i say yeah i know i know who you are i know who you are
and angelo says oh you know lee says that you are you don't want to help me you don't want to
do anything on this case you know he says everybody's got a right to everybody's got a
right to have a defense and i said not from me and he says well look i i i want to have you
kind of help me on this i say look let me be really clear mr angelo i wouldn't piss on you if you were
on fire right you understand and he just looked at me and then be lee almost cracked his pants
i said because look i said you know i know who you are and i know what you do
and i think that you kill people you know who you think betray you so i don't ever want to
be in a position where you're ever going to think that i'm going to betray you because i won't put
a piece of i won't put a pencil to paper to help you so and i'll never have to worry about betraying
you and he just looked at me and he just burst out laughing like that that's incredible and you know
but you know i just would not have anything to do with these people you know uh and so i realized
that that it's just a completely different world view and so i would talk with lee about you know
why you you you got this whole practice you know you're a great criminal defense team you got this
entire private investigation firm you know of moriarty and so it's just to do figure out all
the facts on everything right you know and i said and why don't you do something good you know about
this that you got a whole lot of you got a lot of notoriety you can do really good things it was
like talking to a wall you know it was like uh you know uh and he said no everybody's got a
right to a defense you know nice to you but these are professional criminals i mean you know they're
total gangsters these people he said well everybody's entitled to defense you know and so i i i got to
this kind of row with him so i leave that that friday afternoon i'm i'm standing in this place
over on beacon hill right uh and he's living out in wall pole so because he's now married to his third
wife uh you know in the so i'm staying at the place so i go to church on sunday morning over at uh
uh uh with saint sasilias so i go over to saint sasilias and i'm i come out of church and i'm kind of
wandering back over to beacon hill and i stop in at a bookstore and i'm kind of looking around at the
books like i do sometimes and i found john ralls theory of justice john ralls is the head of the
department of philosophy at harvard university and he's written this major treatise on uh on
justice and it was a long story short i read through the thing and he says that there's this whole
group of people which he calls the intuitionists who are the ones who make these kind of statements
like all men are created equal endowed by their career with certain enable rights and their life
liberty and pride you know they've got all these rights and stuff and they are a counter force in
our country to what they call the majoritarian unitarian utilitarians who if they're if our
people are faced with a choice between one policy or another they will pick the one theoretically
that generates the greatest good for the greatest number right john stuart milled in utilitarianism
you know but he says it doesn't happen that way he says if that were true what ralls says in his
theory of justice that you know then the 90 of us that are white will still own the 10 of the people
that are black he said but we don't because there's this other group called the intuitionists
who keep making these kind of proclamations about natural law and their natural rights and all that
and uh and so i saw it so i bring it how i buy a copy and i go home and i read it uh and i call
up john ralls you know and i talk to a secretary and i'm saying you know i graduated from harvard
college and harvard law school and i did this and did that and i'm waving the school tie through the
phone at her as i'd like to get a chance to talk to professor ralls you know about this about his
new book uh and so she calls me back a little bit later she says okay you can get 30 minutes
you know wednesday afternoon so i go over and sit down with john ralls the head of the department
of philosophy at harvard university and i start talking to him about what's caused me to come and
talk with him about this because you know i've got this thing with ebay i've been at the k-hill firm
the k-hill firm was trying to get me to represent the arkansas missouri power company that was trying
to buy an all black uh company and raise the rates and i wouldn't do it you know and uh and so the
bottom line is i was explaining this all to him and he ended up talking me into coming back to
harvard to coming back and doing a masters and phd in comparative social ethics uh comparing
contrasting different worldviews and it was there that i began to really study and find out
that people have completely different worldviews uh about things uh and we got to understand what
the underlying premise was of different people's worldviews that are even unconscious they don't
even know sometimes what they believe and so i ended up doing the work there and that's why i got
recruited by jesuit national headquarters because i've been writing some papers and stuff from my
master's work in father roger couture who teaches the course at harvard uh lost harvard divinity
school on the theological underpinnings of human rights you know called me in and said uh he said
look uh i'm a son of sir at these papers you've been writing and the the the work that you've
been doing on this you know uh are you aware of the fact i can tell is your catholic he said
from the way you're writing he said but uh and i checked out you know you're not married or anything
he said you know uh are you aware of the fact that uh that the jesuits that the the father
general of the jesuits paid for a rupee has called all 100 provincials of the jesuit order into
roam uh to do some major treatise on social justice and they're going to create a new
national headquarters in washington dc and they're looking for a general counsel and i've recommended
you uh would you be willing to do an interview with them and so i said sure you know and so i did
and they asked me to become general counsel uh at the jesuit headquarters so we have 10,000
jesuits all around the world we got doing social justice documents and the the turns out that the
jesuit order has has become a huge source of all the social justice documents that are being
published by the catholic church in francis pope francis who's the first jesuit in history to ever
become pope you know and so that i was right there at the at the international headquarters
where we were dealing with you know liberation theology you know all the stuff in south america
and i knew all the people i knew gutierries i knew everybody who writes these things
you know i got to go to roam and meet with the the superior general with paid for a rupee
you know uh and so that i was right in the catbird seat and what i brought in was i brought in the
professional investigators from lee bailey's office the people that were in moriarty and
associates because they all knew me right and they knew that i had thrown this big shit fit
and that i wouldn't work for the organized crime people i wouldn't do any of that stuff
so these guys were all calling me up saying oh you've got anything i can do to help you
can i can i help you with some stuff that you know you're doing the kind of things that i always hope
that i could really do and so we became this source of the them getting to do good things together
right and so here i was at jesuit headquarters so i had access to all the jesuit guys around the
world i had the investigators from bailey's office you know and i saw we started putting
together a group and i had access the secret that i had you know uh is that that uh william
johnstone taylor who was appointed to me to be my chief investigator three tour vietnam marine
corps cid criminal investigation division you know uh lays on to the cia and in saigon you know it was
was my investigator uh and he had he'd been there three tours in vietnam so he knew all the guys
coming through army cid office of special investigations for the air force the naval
intelligence guys he knew everybody and these guys after they would do like a two-year tour in vietnam
they would leave leave the military and they go into secret service and fbi into cia us marshals
offices you know uh district attorneys investigators all over the country wow and so i had all these
guys who that when taylor would call them up and say look i got a i got a job for you i want you to
help us and on board they were like that and we had guys i had i had the commander for united
states army cid uh you know working with us you know telling us everything you know i had the you
know gene weaton the head of the u.s military mission in tehran you know who who had been the
chief of security of united states marine corps at casan you know i mean these are the guys you
know and some of it had to do with the fact that i was from harvard law school and you know leigh
bailey's office and they all said whoa shit you know this would be cool and so i got all these people
to come in to work with us and this was the best thing they'd ever done in their whole life everything
we did they were just totally delighted that they finally got to do something good you know and so
that's that's what we are i mean that's what the christic institute was until bush ordered
them to yank our 501c3 saying that we were engaged in political activity because nobody had been
ultimately criminally convicted of the charges we made against them because he pardoned them right
you know uh and so that so i don't mind you know people go oh you know he yanked your 501c3 so what
you know we'll get another 501c3 and we'll become the remaro institute you know which we do you know
and so we just keep going and so that that's why that's why uh lu Elizondo called me when he brought
the the videos and stuff he and chris melham brought the videos to the new york times and
showed them all to them and the the pentagon started shitting on him you know and say we
don't know who lu Elizondo is there's never been any such thing there's no such project at the pentagon
we were not investigating UFOs he called me up uh and asked me to represent him and so we put
together the complaint with the inspector general's office of the defense department you know it wasn't
just a whistleblower defense you know it was it was challenging them for lying to the american people
and lying to congress that this is unconstitutional for you guys to be lying to congress and concealing
this information from them so we brought we brought in this huge complaint into the united
states inspector general for the defense department and basically sat there briefing the inspector
general and as we started briefing him on what was really going on for the ufo issue he was just
flabbergasted you know uh and instead of being mad at lu for having blown the whistle on these people
he started bringing in officers in full uniforms sitting around the desk and we would sit there
briefing them on what was going on their eyes were like biggest saucers holy shit you mean this is
really true i mean the j2 the the guy that was ahead of intelligence with the joint chiefs of staff
yeah was was briefed out of this thing he wasn't allowed to ask any questions about it all uh and
he was the chief of intelligence for the joint chiefs of staff and he wasn't even allowed to
ask any questions about it you know and these guys were furious so so we've got guys all through
the military that are pissed off at these guys we've got all the people in congress and the house
and senate that are pissed off at these guys for lying to them and saying there's no such program
going on at all and they're in they're embezzling billions of dollars billions of dollars out of
the defense budget uh saying that they've appropriated the money for some particular project and they're
really putting it over into trying to back engineer the technology so they can build a weapon system
you know to be able to strike into the heart of russia you know in two minutes right which is going
to totally destabilize the entire geopolitical structures that have been put together to stop
nuclear war you know nobody nobody they've signed an agreement that they won't have first strike
weapons you know and this is an attempt to get around you know the whole treaty because they
consider the people in the state department fucking commies you know i mean that's what they do
they think that they're not really solely in in in defense of our national's interests right you
know that they're trying to make treaties with people and negotiate they hate the united nations
you know they they hate the treaties with other countries nato you know that they're into
they're fucking fascists it's what they are you know and that's what they're into and and they
they think that it's perfectly appropriate if they think it's perfectly appropriate to to engage
in utilizing their military and their intelligence resources to garner a privileged access to the
strategic raw materials of the planet what else is there i mean that's that's what they think is
okay and that's their job and unfortunately the way the institutions are set up is that is in fact
what they've been tasked to do and so they're totally loyal to that and they're totally devoted
to doing it and they view the elected representatives as temporary employees you know who come and go
they're the the the bmoc types you know the big men on campus that used to be the president of
their fraternities and they're a bunch of phonies you know and all they want to do is is you know
parade around and be celebrities you know and they hold them basically in disdain
you know including presidents right you know and you say no what does that mean from a
constitutional point of view you know i i don't believe that i'm naive about it i don't believe
that i'm you know fell off some melon wagon felt like i'm some country bumpkin or something
you know i happen to believe this stuff and i believe that it that we can make it true um
thank you so much for coming all the down here and doing this we just did almost four hours and
that was incredible the amount like i said before the amount of knowledge and history
that you have in your mind and is is absolutely astonishing and uh i'm really grateful for you
coming down here man no i'm delighted to come i i want to talk to the people about these things
yes you know that we haven't i've been talking about these things for people for years but i said
you know this is the this is the issue i'm just going to bring all of that to bear because the
the misdeeds of the national security state which i've talked about in a number of different areas
all come to roost on this thing you know that they believe that they actually are entitled to
keep secret from the people the fact that there's an extraterrestrial civilization of people coming
and going from our planet you know and that our people are engaged in trying to back engineer
their their craft to to develop weapon systems you know i'll do one story and closing on this
is that uh help put off i don't know if you know how yeah i'm yeah help put off told us that uh he
was uh he was meeting with bill clinton in fact during 1992 in the clinton administration when
they with the laurence Rockefeller and the people were talking about trying to consider
putting this information out right he said a meeting and the science advisor for bill clinton
is there and so hal says to me says what's what's what do you think is really the source of all the
pushback that we're getting on trying to get this information out and the science advisor says you
know let's go outside where i can talk to you which tells you something i want to worry about
the kind of surveillance and stuff that's going down against the political people wow he said he
said so he goes outside and he said here let me let me give you an analysis he said of what i think
the problem is here of why they're pushing back so hard he said he said there's a story about this
old man little old man who's on his way back from somewhere he's coming home at night early in the
evening and he's walking through this field and he looks down and he sees this light like in the grass
and he leans down and it's a frog and the frog has this little light like on top of his head
and he reaches down and picks this is how put off telling me the story he said he said this is the
answer that this is what the science advisor told him is the answer for why they're pushing back
like this he said and the little man reaches down picks up the frog and he recognizes that it's a
crown the little light is a crown on the head of the frog and the frog looks up at him and says
i'm not a frog i'm a princess i'm a beautiful princess and i've been turned into a frog by this
evil sorcerer and all you have to do is kiss me you kiss me and i'll turn back into this beautiful
princess and you and i'll be married and we'll have many great children we'll be able to rule
our place with peace and justice and the little man looks at her and he says at my age i think
i'll settle for having a talking frog that's good okay that's what we've got happening here
these people are willing to settle for a talking frog you know just like woodward and Bernstein
were willing to settle for just that they they caught creep money going to the people that
burglarized the watergate you know and let the whole other thing go you know they're missing out
on this astonishing opportunity for our entire human family to enter into an entire new era you
know of of safe energy and plenty for everybody in a positive relationship with an entire extraterrestrial
civilization and all they can think of do is how to make weapons out of it so that we can you know
shoot a missile into russia in two minutes that's a serious problem and i don't think the american
people are going to support that i think the american people want to know the information
about this i think that they they want to and i want to have the people understand that the
national security state has to be disassembled because the united states has become the russians
has become the bad guys right that are are applying their trade all on behalf of
establishing full spectrum military dominance over the planet you know we're living at the heart of
rome you know people all like to believe that oh if i were in rome i would have opposed slavery
human slavery if i'd been in the south in the 1800s i would have opposed slave no you wouldn't
they would be just as passive as a lot of the people are now because they don't think they're
involved they don't think they can have any effect upon anything that's what the that's what the the
new paradigm institute is going to be saying you have to be citizens you have to step forward you
have to pay some attention to what's going on here you know you got jobs you got everything else
we're not asking you for an awful lot of time what we're saying is all you have to do is go to
newparadigminstitute.org and you know get as much information as you want as little as you want it's
going to be very informative very entertaining you know and and you can be actively participating
in helping to get the congress to do the right thing about all this you know and you can you can
you can tell your great great great grandchildren that you were there i mean we're we're at the
we're at the time where the protocols are going to be established they're going to control our
relationship with an extraterrestrial civilization for 10 000 years in the future i'm ready i'm ready
for it you know this next year is going to be uh quite a whirlwind i have a feeling oh absolutely
especially with the presidential elections coming up everything that's going on in congress with
this grush guy and yep i can't wait and uh thanks again for enlightening me on all this amazing
information you're more than welcome newparadigminstitute.org i'll link all your stuff below please
and also i want to ask you a couple more quick questions but i'm going to do it after we wrap
up this podcast because i don't want to get my i don't want to get this video nuked by youtube for
asking you these questions okay it's going to be on our patreon okay so that's us a link below
good night everybody good night everybody
