Len and Duncan, why don't you guys introduce yourselves and talk about, you know, what
is it you guys do and what's your background?
My name is Len Baer, yeah, I'm formerly a physician from the USSR, from the, from
the former USSR.
I specialized in, I was a medical doctor, specialized in endocrinology, came over here
in 93 to work for a pharmaceutical company and in the area of my research.
And then I was prepared to get licensed in the states, but you know, things on the business
side took over and, and I stayed on the business side and currently working in the regulatory
field for a company in Chicago area, US naturalized citizen, married and being target of directed
energy weapons since 2019.
Since 2019?
Yeah.
In the summer of 2019.
Three years ago.
Three, just over three years ago.
It started happening to me and it was diagnosed in 2020 with vestibulitis function due to
directed energy exposure by the same team of experts that diagnosed Cuban diplomats.
Duncan.
Yeah.
Yes.
So, you know, I have an Ivy League background education.
I've been studying any human rights activism for what is now currently termed Van Syndrome,
but this has been going on for quite some time.
I work for DARPA on projects or the CIA for the Navy, for example, wrote the artificial
intelligence code track the Soviet nuclear submarine fleet.
But about 20 years ago, I realized some of my research was being utilized on my own citizens.
And that was unacceptable to me.
And since then, I've done hundreds of interviews, interviewed 2,500 victims or targeted individuals,
as they're called, found commonalities of all their stories.
And I've spoken to the head of the LA FBI to the Senate Intelligence Committee, 23 senators
and representatives with very, with some interest.
And I said, just wait when it starts happening to their agents, diplomats and the FBI.
So interestingly, a story came out yesterday that it's happening to the FBI now.
What is your educational background?
I have an MBA from Dartmouth and Masters of Science from Harvard, PhD in Applied Sciences,
Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, Pre-Medical in Engineering, and other classes
in from Stanford, Duke and MIT.
So yeah, I've been in school most of my life.
How did you get into working with DARPA and the CIA?
Well, it was odd.
I gave a resume to a headhunter, ironically, and they're called headhunters.
And my head was taken for a CIA think tank.
At the time, I didn't know it.
It was a technology think tank.
And it was all funded by DARPA.
And then I got shuffled around as a scientist to these various other projects.
For people who aren't familiar, could you tell us what DARPA is?
Defense Advanced Research Project Agency.
They do all of the Pine in the Sky projects long term, well-funded.
I have some of the best scientists.
And it's mainly where all the top secret research goes on and that some of it I can
talk about, some of it I can't.
And it's a very fine line.
I'm not trying to hurt my country.
I'm not trying to hurt anyone here.
But there is a cover-up going on about the Havana syndrome.
And so this is what we're hoping Len and I to expose.
So when did you guys meet each other?
And how did you guys meet?
So after I was diagnosed with Havana syndrome by Dr. Hoffer at the University of Miami,
I started reaching out to elected officials, to all the researchers.
One of the people I contacted gave me Robert's book, a project Soul Catcher I read it.
And I said, I have to meet this guy.
And I contacted him on social media and made a trip.
I live in the Chicago area, just about 45 minutes from downtown.
And contacted Robert said to fly to meet him.
We flew to Idaho and spent the day talking.
And I learned a lot about it and I continue learning from Robert.
We became friends and we have common goal to expose this.
So how did you first develop this syndrome?
What was happening?
What were you doing?
You were a civilian.
You weren't working in the government.
In any capacity.
So how does this happen to a civilian?
It just started happening.
I developed tinnitus, the ring in the ear, first at like in certain parts of the house.
And I heard noises and voices and I could not figure out and then vibrations.
These vibrations are experientially, it's like nothing else.
You there's no neurological disorder that that that feels like that.
And I can tell you as a patient and as a physician, experientially, it is very distinct.
Your whole body vibrates.
Your head is heavy pressure.
It's the sound is deafening.
You get disoriented, can't walk, can't talk.
It incapacitates you and it can last from 10 minutes to 30 minutes to an hour and a half.
And it's very painful.
It's very uncomfortable and it feels like concussion after that.
And you actually have symptoms of concussion, the movement of the eyes, the stagmus.
And this is why some people give it the name immaculate concussion.
But I had it was escalating.
I was searching for an answer.
I had convulsions from it, which is which is one of the
things that people experience.
I realized how serious it was.
Neurologists were unable to diagnose.
I started looking through the literature, found
paper by Dr.
Hoffer, where he describes 25 diplomats that he examined and diagnosed with what
he called acquired neurosensory dysfunction.
And that's the diagnosis that he gave to these diplomats.
And he gave this diagnosis to me.
But my attacks did not happen overseas.
They happened domestically in my house.
And I traveled and stayed at hotels, went to other states and it was happening there, too.
So not just not one location.
And it escalated, escalated, escalated.
Then I was diagnosed with traumatic
encephalopathy, basically like post traumatic brain syndrome.
But there's no injury.
There's no concussion.
This is not a type of injury where you have mechanical trauma.
This is energy.
This is what they call non-kinetic weaponry.
And I.
And this is how we met.
What why would somebody like you be targeted?
What were you doing?
Were you were you dealing with other people in government or diplomats?
Do you have any reason to suspect that
somebody would target you with something like this?
No, I have no idea why.
I was chosen to be targeted and I have I keep no government secrets.
I never worked for it for a government.
I I didn't know what the reason is and I'm not doing it.
So so perhaps people who do it to me would know the answer.
So is this something that you believe happened to you one time and it had
like a lasting residual effect or do you think this is something that happened?
You were targeted by some sort of weapon or something multiple times.
Multiple times on an ongoing basis.
I just had two attacks this morning before I got on the plane.
These are active attacks and I and
experientially, they feel exactly the same.
The vibrations, the all the symptoms are the same.
And not only that, I have a brain scan that I
did in April and in October.
So in six months,
what this Tavana syndrome is also described as brain connectivity disorder.
So it disrupts connectivity between neural nodes within the brain.
And I have these broken connections, these called Delta waves that you only
experience, you only supposed to have it during deep sleep.
And I have them all over and these
basically non-functional connections between neural nodes.
And since
April to October of this year, I have 20 percent more.
There is no degenerative neurological disorder that behaves that that like that.
This is a very
fast progress and
because I'm having I'm having this daily active attacks.
These are not functional episodes.
These are active attacks that make me
vibrate, make make me disoriented, they extremely painful.
Sometimes I just have to go to the basement and scream in the pillow.
It's it's it's extremely debilitating.
I'm on I've been on medically for the last year and
it's hard for me to do any cognitive work.
I work when I can.
So when you say it's it's actively
happening, you think that this is being something that's
controlled or do you think it is something that just has an effect that lasts over
a long period of time and it happens sporadically at random times?
I think that these are active attacks.
These are not
residual, these are not functional episodes.
So their their episodes are not random?
No, they're when I can't predict when when they when they're going to happen,
they can happen, they it can wake me up in the middle of the night.
It can happen.
There's no pattern.
There's no pattern.
When you hear to when you listen to sorry,
when you listen to newer weapon experts that
warn us about these attacks,
they call them intentional.
So these are intentional attacks.
These are not the brain does not
produce produce them.
It there's a school of thought that these are functional neurological disorder.
But in fact, the brain injury from these energy attacks are classified as organic.
So there's a damage to the brain.
So.
To answer this question scientifically.
Would be would take somebody to measure
that energy coming into my brain,
but the detection methods in the intelligence reports are classified.
So I can't tell you that this energy is coming in.
Because I'm not measuring it.
Nobody is measuring.
Nobody is investigating it.
But I guarantee you these active attacks.
I'm I'm the biggest skeptic.
I'm scientifically minded.
I.
I have no doubt that these are active attacks.
There was a recent documentary on CNN.
Macula conception where the doctor who is investigating
was C.I.A. came down with the same symptoms.
So it's kind of interesting.
The doctors, they hired that, you know,
they are not even allowed to know directly that they do not even know that we've
been working on the same weapons, directed energy weapons often referred to as do
mine control weapons.
Chinese are working on the Russians in the US have had them for a long time.
But dialing lethality
is what's happening oftentimes for those that show mild traumatic brain injury.
It can be done through cavitation effects using sound waves.
Highly unlikely in the Cuba embassy attacks.
And it can be done through microwave directed energy if it's amplified.
In fact, there's something called the fray effect.
The army had it on their website called V2K.
And that's how a lot of people refer to it that can pipe voices into someone's head.
You can't plug your ears.
It actually vibrates the brain, which is like many concussions through the small
pulses that expand the tissue and then contracts it, then goes to the inner ear
where they can hear it.
If you just turn that up causes brain damage, you're heating the brain.
So there are a lot of ways just
and a weapon, for example, that I think is reclassified now, but it was done at the
University of Nevada as a non lethal weapon
that resonates the dopamine
cells of your brain, producing cells of your brain and it floods it.
Now, if it worked, they were forced reclassified it.
Flood your brain with dopamine.
Dopamine dump and that incapacitates the.
Adversary in a non lethal way, not totally non lethal, though.
If you have too much neurotransmitter in your brain, it's a neurotoxin.
It'll also cause brain damage.
So brain damage can occur through these weapons that are non lethal in many,
many different ways.
Do you have any way of describing or do you?
Is there any evidence anywhere that could explain something that's happening?
Like to describe what Len is describing is happening to him.
Is there any sort of weapon that you're aware of that can do that?
Sure.
It's very complex.
But if you cognitively model someone, you have a brain print like a fingerprint.
And if you use autocorrelation techniques and there's a way and we'll just kind of
wave our hand functional MRI that you can do at a distance over the earth.
You have every human being's brain pattern.
You can control eight billion brains on the planet, potentially read them.
Pre crime.
You can imagine during warfare, I'd be useful for a number of objectives.
So in that situation, you'd want it continuous and you'd beam the entire
earth over it, you're like a cell phone, your brain is a circuit.
So if you're dialed in once you have a cognitive model,
you would never be able to escape it under the magnetosphere or ionosphere.
It's worldwide.
And you can ask a number of people in every country.
Is it happening in your country?
And they're just like the exact same symptomology.
Other than the symptomology and the vast amount of people in government and so
forth that experience these same symptoms.
What other evidence do we have of technology like this?
Well, I sent you some articles and papers that there are just many books.
You can go on Google.
The difference between
I just don't believe these diplomats are being hit and by a drive by a microwave weapon.
I think the brain damage is being done because the brain rewires itself
more rapidly, let's say you lose your eyesight, then you're hearing and taste
the smell, your taste and smell get better, your brain adapts faster.
During this adaptation process, you can insert an external signal, sort of like
hiving brains together, it's insert an external signal.
Yes, an electromagnetic signal.
And how how would you do that?
You might ask in the details get very complex.
But there are several patents that you can access that talk about
inserting a signal into the micro circuits and macro circuits of the brain.
Now, you got to know those patterns, the lock and key mechanism.
Otherwise, it won't affect you.
It will only affect the target brain of the brain print that's
the brain print.
Yeah, signature.
Everyone has a unique one.
And you ask, well, how do you broadcast this over the world?
How do we talk nuclear submarines underwater?
How do you explain this is happening to Len?
How do you rationalize it?
I can because one it follows
the symptomology, like I said, of all these others.
But for me, I don't know.
If he wants me to mention this, let me ask him in private.
Hold on. OK, yeah.
Can I talk?
Here's how I do my studies and I wanted to find the commonalities.
But I have to throw away the ones I'm
uncertain about that are true targets.
You know, maybe there's natural schizophrenia.
There's a whole bunch of chemical imbalances.
Right, right.
These weapons can actually induce and mimic all those diseases and effects.
But the conversations, the scripts they're called, are always the same.
Now, I've heard them all.
They're slightly tailored for each individual, but they're scripts.
And they're meant to confuse the very derogatory.
That's just typical breakdown, you know, if you've ever been to boot camp,
you're you're warm until you're part of the team.
And why would you want to break down the ego of that person to rebuild it?
So this gets into creating, mentoring candidates, but personality spies and
information couriers, people that will carry messages to other places
without being aware that they're actually doing it.
So you can imagine the misperception that is caused by this.
And a lot of people that a lot of the targets when they're interviewed
are tricked into believing evil, evil aliens have abducted their brains.
Demons, they're tricked.
Yes. How are they tricked?
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk about this
incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now after it was
recommended to me by nutritional scientist Dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast.
I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition, diet and
longevity, because as we get older, these things become more and more important.
That is why I started using Verso.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into
products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being this one right here,
which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide or NMN based supplement,
paired with naturally derived, micronized, trans-resveratrol and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide
iodine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD.
And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy, cell repair and longevity.
If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten
that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity is because your body is
activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes.
The downside is as we age, NAD declines.
When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of sirtuins
and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold.
And it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your entire order.
That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get 15% off your entire order.
Or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
It's linked below back to the show.
They're told by who?
By the voices, the V2K.
So they'll say we're the Russian government, we're the Chinese government,
we're evil aliens, we're satans, you know, satanic ritual abuse.
We're and I've heard all the stories.
One guy believed it was some 14-year-old kid with an Xbox that lived next door.
The trickery really is that great when you're under hypnosis, that people will
believe something other than a massive government could do this.
And so anyway, what are in my interview with Len, he very well described
a typical breakdown script that's used on almost all the TI victims.
TI stands for targeted individuals.
Some of them are pretty crazy.
They go, they have names like Alice in Wonderland, Wizard of Oz.
And those are the confusion tactics.
And when they're breaking down the ego of the human through all the pains and
tortures and and the verbal breakdown,
these are typical CIA torture scripts.
I mean, Kubarke manual and they do good cop-back cop interrogation called
Jeff and Mutt and they go right through the list, right?
Just textbook.
So whoever the handlers are on the other side of this
synthetic telepathy, they're following the handbook perfectly and they've been trained.
But why Len?
And everyone asks that.
Why me? Every target.
So sometimes they come up.
Oh, I cut some important guy off in traffic.
He put me on a list or it's my ex-husband or something like that.
If they obviously if you work for government, you just like, well, obviously
it's the government, but
you want a random sample of the population in all languages, all cultures,
in order for a worldwide weapon of an AI system that can
interact with every human brain, for example, when you take a view and develop
a new drug, well, you have a control group and then you give the placebo and then
you have the the actual drug experiment in order to do a double-blind study.
So why me and nobody?
Well, that's exactly probably why they chose you.
Right.
But if they're doing some sort of an experiment like this and testing him,
how would they gather information?
How would they know about Len's symptoms and know how Len is feeling?
How would they know it's working?
You want to answer that?
Yeah, I believe that there is a
it's a two way by by direction, by directional connection.
And once again, it's called remote neural
monitor and intervention, there are patents around it.
The
plus
the medical information that I produce is probably very relevant to them.
If it is, in fact, human experimentation
without consent, which is violates Nuremberg Geneva Convention, every human right.
But that's a speculation on my part, because I'm not the one doing it.
It's been done to me and I don't know why.
I don't know who is doing it, what the purpose is.
I can only speculate and let me interject here.
So a lot of them, not a lot, a few of the targets were true man-turing candidates.
I tried to speak with
with Senator Clinton at the time.
She wouldn't talk to us.
And one of the reasons I wanted to bring this up to her is because someone was
hearing her voice, ventriloquism, and they believed she was the one torturing.
And that's how you program.
They're called programmed assassins.
I thought she might be interested in that.
And so if you're programming someone to go after, let's say, a political target,
all you have to do is use voice morphing
and pipe in the tortures, the pains and 24 hours, make it an artificial
intelligent chatterbot, too, and you'll drive the person crazy and they'll want
to kill and stop the pain of the target, which they'll go after that person,
be it their neighbor, be it a lot of these school shootings.
I think that you hear about on the news.
They hear voices and we the news, you know, the mass news media will just
write them out, oh, they're crazy.
There's a story, apparently, about about people seeing a white van or what?
Let me ask you, let me just ask you this.
What do the people who claim that Havana syndrome is like some fake thing
that's kind of like created by mass hysteria, schizophrenics or whatever,
talking about crazy things, what what sort of arguments are they making?
They're using a pseudoscience of
that's kind of a tautology of psychiatry.
If we find an abnormality in a person, we then classify it and then it becomes
disease, a mental illness.
Now, the problem with that is if we're trying to hide a very sophisticated weapon,
one that actually targets the mind, there's no way to use that model of science
to explain it.
You immediately are discrediting it.
You're being a skeptic.
You're not finding the alternative hypotheses.
So the people that say these things, one, it hasn't been done to them.
They haven't worked on the weaponry.
They haven't done their research and it's just it's kind of a lazy mind.
They just rather say everyone's crazy mass delusion.
They think the sky is falling, etc.
And that's just, you know, I I don't
since I know they exist and I've studied this for 20 years and worked on portions of it.
I have very bad things to say about those people.
Now, what did you what when you worked on programs for DARPA and the CIA?
What sort of you worked on neuro technology?
Awesome.
Again, we're we're getting into a fine line about my background, what I talk about,
but EG controlled robots, you know, which is a project, robotic surgery and medicine,
voice identification and morphing technologies,
natural language processing, signal intelligence of tanks from satellites, things like that.
But I can't talk directly about too much about the very details of the advanced
sensors and systems involved, if you can appreciate that.
Well, you know, some of the greatest innovation in technology obviously comes
from war and the military industrial complex.
Are there any positive aspects of neuro
technology and this type of technology that are being utilized or that are being developed?
Oh, absolutely.
You know, we go throughout history.
All technologies are neutral.
Fire can cook food, kill bacteria, keep you warm, but it can burn down villages.
So the war machine will almost always use it first for their advantage
and keep it as secret as possible.
It's a great interrogation to imagine having bloodless wars where you just
fatigue your enemy and they they drop to their knees.
We use the voice to skull and LDAR at long range acoustic device in the Gulf War
to say this is all lay down your arms and they believed it.
So what is that?
Can you explain exactly what that is?
The LRAD LRAD is a sonic long range acoustic weapon.
The V2K is a microwave weapon.
You can't plug your eardrums.
You can't stop the sound because it conducts to your brain.
And it makes it sound like it's coming.
The sound or voice or music or whatever you want to play is coming right from
the center of your head.
So it works pretty well in war and you can imagine other effects.
You're getting brutalized, beaten up, all virtual.
And the brain damage, unfortunately,
that's they're going to have to work on that.
But otherwise, you can you can literally traumatize the entire population.
OK, so are those good effects rather than guns?
Perhaps, but there are other good effects.
Imagine once the civilians have use of this, like Elon Musk's neural lays.
You can have more control of yourself.
I feel like I want to be happy today or I want to have a communication with you
without using a phone.
So synthetic telepathy is really around the corner.
But or, you know, we have to get the messaging telepathy structure working.
What are your thoughts on Elon Musk's
neural ink? What do you what is your outlook on?
I think he's going to be set up as a patsy for a lot of this experimentation.
What's going on in the public?
I've already seen it happening.
Targeting individuals are very angry.
They want to point the finger at somebody.
He's the perfect person to point the finger at.
He's a rich man, so he's already suspect in some people's minds,
even though this technology is very old, very old.
What the neural ink technology?
Yeah, yeah, really. How old is it?
I can track back at least synthetic telepathy or piping voices into people's
head right around Kennedy's assassination.
But about 1958 was the earliest target I could find.
And who and who was this?
What was the situation?
Can you explain this specific incident?
Exactly like land buyers.
Same same thing.
He wrote about it in a book.
I don't I don't remember the title of it exactly.
It really seemed to come online with a bunch of people in about 1976,
the bicentennial of this nation.
And there seems to be increases in the number of people that have these
complaints given bigger military budgets.
Now, why there's a correlation there?
I don't know. You have to make your own speculation.
But this isn't new.
Havana Center was not new by any means.
It has a new name.
It's getting recognition by the news.
But honestly, it's been squelched.
It's been covered up for many, many decades.
Do you think do you know if Elon has any sort
of government contracts with Neuralink?
I know.
As far as I know, he does not.
He'll be approached, obviously.
But what I think they're doing, like we some of the projects I worked on
in the in my time at DARPA became real big companies like Google and Facebook and
etc. So I think it's a technology transfer.
They can help civilian scientists, you know, come up with the ideas to make it look
like it's new and not the other way around that the universities came up with it.
And then it's then they bought it from them.
So I think I hope Elon actually succeeds because then this isn't imaginary stuff
anymore, people will then see, wow, we can really connect brains together and make
hyperintelligence.
I sent you of that article from Duke University, a video of how they put
brain chips and you don't need brain chips, but that's one way, one technology
into three monkeys connected their cerebral cortex.
And in this experiment, they could prove that three monkey brains together
acted intuitively as one brain and was able to solve the problem that the
individual monkeys were not able to solve.
And that's a really important finding.
Now, can we extend that to an entire population and help solve the world's problems?
You know, we can't even fat them.
What a larger mind would look like.
It's certainly not human.
Wasn't there another experiment done where they connected like a human and a brain,
a human brain and a monkey's brain?
There was.
How do you know about that one?
I heard about it.
There was a girl.
Yes, and an ape in the army experiment.
I think it was in the 60s.
I might have heard you talk about maybe.
And.
And it didn't end well.
What they were trying to do is cybernetically link.
And that's the term when you connect.
Who was doing this study?
It was the army and one other group, but I can't remember.
And they were hoping.
Because they didn't break down the it all comes together.
So give me a chance here.
They weren't able to break down the ego of the ape or the girl, per se.
So their brains, the what the young girl that was used as an experiment to break down
what the ego, ego, so sense of self.
We all have a sense of self.
We believe we're separated from everybody else.
And even though we have two hemispheres of the brain, we believe we're one brain.
Right.
You know, it's an illusion, optical illusion, delusion of consciousness,
design sciences.
So what happened is when they put the girl in the cage,
the eight tore apart.
They weren't able to recognize her as an extension of itself.
And I believe this is part of the reason of the breakdown.
The torture that T.I.s are experiencing is they have to break down the ego in order
to be part of a greater mind or mind control.
That's terrifying.
Yeah, it is a worldwide global brain.
Now, Len, how many people have you
spoken with or met that are experiencing the same symptoms that you're experiencing?
Hundreds, hundreds.
And what when you went down to was it
Miami when you met with the doctor, what how many people has he seen that he's
diagnosed and what specifically how specifically did he diagnose you and what
were there any other
neurological diseases that were similar or in the same
realm as Havana syndrome?
Or did he actually diagnose you with quote unquote Havana syndrome?
He diagnosed me with acquired neurosensory dysfunction.
And that's the paper.
That's the name of the paper that he published about Havana syndrome.
So if you read it, he talks about 25 symptomatic.
Maybe you can pull this up, Austin.
What's his name?
Hoffer, Hawker, Wired, Dr.
Hoffer of the University of Miami.
Yeah.
So he examined 25 symptomatic patients made of
from Cuba and 10 of their roommates because these attacks never happened at the embassy.
It always happened at the hotel or living quarters.
And
they were in the same room and some never happened at the embassy.
That's interesting. Never happened at the embassy.
So
people who experienced symptoms and
there could be other people, their roommates that never experienced it.
And so all the people who experienced the symptoms
were
were examined for signs of concussion.
And they were fine.
They all had symptoms of concussion,
even though they never had any physical trauma to their head.
And they all had
severe vestibular abnormalities and the severe abnormalities were
at the level of brain injury, not just variation in within the population.
Because the criticism was, well,
vestibular tests are not really that
precise and some people with anxiety could have vestibular abnormalities,
but not to this extent.
And Dr.
Hoffer really explains it in his lecture, in his paper.
Dr. Giordano, who was part of the team, confirms it.
Dr. Bell Band, who did
a test of eye movement
by applying this computerized method.
And this is how they can tell
the Tavanos syndrome
type of damage to the brain from a mechanical concussion.
So so they're both damaged to the brain,
but they're different because the mechanism is different.
So there's an eye test where they can tell.
Correct. The eye movement test.
But the so the the effect of the damage is the same,
but there's no physical like abrupt, like
there's no trauma, physical trauma.
There's no mechanical trauma.
Did you mention the quantitative EG?
Yeah, so so the same patients were
sent to the University of Pennsylvania and
to the trauma
center and they were all done.
They performed various tests on them, including fMRI, functional
magnetic resonance imaging.
There's specific
type of MRI that shows connectivity in the brain called GTI,
diffusion tensor imaging, and they found
abnormalities that once again
these specialists see in traumatic brain injury.
So the doctors who examined these patients,
they all, in one voice, tell us
something happened to these patients and these are the findings and the findings are.
They constitute brain injury.
The critics of that
say this is psychogenic illness and it's spread like mass hysteria.
People under stress develop these
sensations and they all kind of repeat after each other and they in their brain
kind of develops this this patterns.
But none of these specialists.
And I spoke to Dr.
Bartolomew, who who wrote,
co-wrote a book about Tavanna syndrome being mass hysteria.
And he admitted himself in my conversation.
He said, if there was
if there were
findings of brain injury, that would invalidate my hypothesis.
Right.
And so the doctor, but he never,
he has never seen a patient with Tavanna syndrome.
But all the doctors
that saw the patients say these patients have brain injury findings.
How many civilians are there
dealing with the same thing?
I would give from my estimate low end
around the world, and this is in every country that can use the internet that
can contact me minimum 10,000.
Minimum 10,000.
So that means a lot more.
Wow.
And how many government workers or how many FBI, whatever?
Politicians, right?
The very first CIA agent that came forward and said, you know, I heard these
crickets and this sound and my brain hasn't been the same since.
He's gone through the same process as Len Berry.
Just block after block of government bureaucracy saying,
you're delusional, this technology doesn't exist.
And, you know, you don't have to go to the directed energy directorate of the
Air Force that we've been working on this for a long time with our NATO allies.
And so a lot of the work on these
concussion weapons, not only the weapons are done under that director.
Is anybody transparent about being who in government is being transparent about
working on this kind of technology?
Len has stories, but he can't mention names.
Yes, that's unfortunate.
But I can tell you that there was an investigative
reporting in Zeit magazine, which is a German publication.
They investigated Havana syndrome and they
talked to a prominent
expert in the field of directed energy
and who published a short article following the events.
And then he was
contacted by the DOD and by the Air Forces that
they had that he is not to speak publicly about it.
Otherwise, they will pull the his fund funding.
And
yeah, that's part of the way that you prevent leaks is it's a form of financial
blackmail that will pull your funding if we talk about any of this openly.
And
is there any correlation in between you and some of the other people that have
been a fact have been experiencing the same thing with timing of the attacks?
Like are the timings of the timing of the attack similar between different people?
Are people experiencing them at the same times?
How are they being triggered?
Specifically, where?
How are they being triggered?
Yeah, it's it seems the ones that are
severe, I call them targets.
It's some of its stress related, you can tell.
There was a paper in the late 1970s by the
DIA, the Department of Intelligence Agency,
that said the Russians were trying to create a
panic weapon that could kill a person, literally spook them to death by creating
a runaway process with the adrenal gland and increasing until blood pressure,
any sort of weakness in their circulatory system, their heart would give out.
And any time we blame the Russians for something like that, you know,
we're working on it, too.
So it seems like
oftentimes stress brings it on.
And I've read that in some other papers.
But otherwise, it's it's
constant for these people, I mean, 24 hours constant.
And they can't sleep, they can't, which even makes it worse.
Weakens the brain.
One sleep deprivation was a common torture
tactic, interrogation tactic, and it breaks down the will.
You're more easily suggest suggestible.
He said he has major delta brain waves, which that's a hypnotic state,
which makes you more susceptible.
One of the CIA's old weapons was called
Rihic, remote hypnotic inner cerebral control.
A lot of people don't believe they can be hypnotized through,
you know, when people think of hypnotism, they think of a watch going back and forth.
And no, that's not the actual definition of hypnotism.
It's in training the brain.
So binaural beats, for example, on headphones of your off bio let go eight hertz.
You're you're in the alpha delta brain waves like and you'll actually see the
brain under an EG start to mimic that binaural beating.
That's that's hypnotism.
Now you can do it on a much grander scale of the macro circuits, the, you know,
the main brain frequencies or the micro circuits.
So synthetic telepathy actually can induce different emotional states.
Each part of the brain has different circuitry, different frequencies,
different patterns.
You can induce
you can mimic almost every illness and induce it.
So when someone's classified, let's say, as
manic depressive, we can do that.
We can make them happy for a day and then make them depressed for a day.
And then the doctor will prescribe certain drugs for them,
which will then do more damage to their their body.
But you can see why
the population can't know about this.
Let's just say everything I said is true.
It would be the breakdown of religion.
It'd be the break, it'd be anarchy.
There, there would be no democracy, you know, everything.
Well, there are there are programs like
this that have been declassified and been acknowledged by the government like M.K.
Ultra, they acknowledged that was real Operation Northwoods.
Yeah, they recognize that that was a real thing.
That was declassified.
I mean, there's things that are that are sinister that the government has done
that they that they admit to, but you know, nothing happens.
A lot of people don't even pay attention to it.
Right.
Until it happens to them and then it's too late.
No one will help them.
It seems like with M.K.
Ultra, though, they were targeting more so prisoners.
People that were in prison, big shot.
I mean, and obviously when you think of M.K.
Ultra, there's people like Ted Kaczynski, Charles Manson.
Who was the who was the big mob mob guy?
Famous mob guy who killed a lot of people.
I'm blanking on his name right now.
But a lot of those people talked about how some of their their contacts in the
government probation officers were giving them LSD.
That's that's that's a real thing.
Yeah, it's a real thing was on the masses,
introduced to the United States and promoted.
But you're talking about specific events such as in San Francisco, where they put
a one way mirror up and had prostitutes.
That's that's midnight climax.
Yeah, yeah, climax.
That's another one.
Yeah, and Ted Kaczynski, he lived in my dorm at Harvard, not at the same time.
He was being experimented on in Harvard.
Yeah, yeah.
And that was Project Moonstruck, I believe.
Project what?
Moonstruck.
Moonstruck, a stress program.
That's a terrifying story, isn't it?
And even the shooter
in Vegas, he had FBI contacts.
And that gets very murky.
But the news never follows up on any of this.
For example, I was in a suicide letter.
The guy, Myron May, who shot up Florida State or University of Florida's
library, like 10 years ago.
Anyway, he didn't kill anybody.
But he shot people and then it was death by cop.
He was a lawyer trained there, a successful black man.
And same symptoms of Glen Bear.
And his reasoning why he shot up the school was
he needed news publicity to make sure people understood this was real and was happening.
And so he mentioned my name in it, but he never tried to contact me.
But he gave out seven packages in the mail
and the FBI intercepted them all to make sure none of the information was.
What were in these packages?
Just information, just information.
So they held on to it.
The news story sort of went away.
People just were left.
Huh, wonder why he did that?
And then what was this guy's name again?
Myron May.
Myron May.
Yeah.
And he talked about he clearly talked about having the same exact symptoms
as Glen publicly.
Yeah.
And he left the video testimony and then people, the FBI eventually led it
through to the senders, the packages, and they posted it on the internet.
So you can find his testimony, unless Google's taking it down or YouTube or whatever.
It's they don't want copycats, basically.
So.
Oh, yeah, there it is.
Well, this is a what is this?
I can see NBC News.
Scroll down, Austin.
Gunsman's motives remain unclear.
See, and that's a lie by the media.
Hour before he opened fire in Florida State University Library,
lawyer Myron May left a desperate voicemail for an acquaintance with his plea.
I do not want to die in vain.
The message was part of a flurry of emails, text and phone calls in which the former
prosecutor laid bare his torment.
He believed government stalkers were harassing him and using a direct energy
weapon to hurt him.
He said that he had sent packages to 10 people that would expose what he thought
was happening to him.
That's yeah, it's scary.
Yeah, maybe you remember the Navy Yards shooter.
He uses a sawed off shotgun and actually killed like 13 people.
He had a clearance to get on a Navy base
and he wrote on his weapon and the news pretends like they have no idea what's
going on. My left weapon that stands for extremely low frequency,
which the brain operates on, which we also communicate with some reins with
because it penetrates everything.
So he was convinced the Navy was behind it and he just went to revenge.
He couldn't point the finger to stop it.
So he just took it out on everyone on this.
But it creates such frustration.
A lot of these shooters are trying to get this this media attention.
What is this, Austin?
OK, what do you think it would take for the government to or for anyone
responsible to to be transparent and open about this?
I don't think they can be because think of the atrocities and the lack of trust.
I mean, that would happen lack of trust of the government.
Well, I mean, even more so
that they're they're socially engineering, let's say, gun rights.
Well, let's have all these spree killers go on shooting sprees.
And then the response of that stimulus would be take away guns.
You know, it's a way to socially engineer.
And so you say your government wouldn't do that.
Well, the very much in long term
perspectives of how would they want to shape the New World Order or shape a UN,
a single government controlled vast majority of I mean, I'm not sure it's all of them,
but I know that a vast majority of these public shooters, these school shooters,
they are we're on anti-depressants and
of slew of different pharmacology and pharmaceutical drugs to help them deal
with depression, social anxiety, different things like that.
Couldn't that be part of what is going on?
It could.
I would have to see their private psychological profile.
And I told you just because they're on drugs doesn't mean anything to me.
I have to interview them and see if they're being driven.
And it's called psychic driving.
The Scottish world psychiatrist who did brainwashing.
Montreal University.
I'm trying to pull up his name in my files now.
Anyway, he called psychic driving these women would go into the hospital for
mild depression, he would play a two tape loop just like these other breakdown
processes, your mother hates you, blah, blah, blah.
But I can't actually repeat how awful the scripts are.
They use like I compile the list of a thousand negative things they say.
And I post it on Facebook and got away with it just because I put quotes around
and they use this to do break down the ego.
Correct. Correct.
And so they did that while they were in induced commas.
I'm still talking about the brainwashing for their unconscious.
So pseudo unconscious.
OK, and they keep them in a vegetative sort of sleep state.
OK, and I think it was probably in a delta or theta brain with dominant state.
So they couldn't hear all this negativity.
And I think they gave him LSD, too.
And they were just trying to wait.
Oh, and electroshock.
So they were trying to wipe the brain clean so they could rebuild new memories.
And one woman, it was funded by the CIA.
The psychiatrist got his funding from that.
And the woman sued, she won.
But she lost half her life.
Can't remember it, had to learn how to pee again, speak again, everything.
So brainwashing works.
The reprogramming parts, what's interesting.
And just to make it absolutely clear,
I do not have a diagnosis of paranoid or delusional disorder.
I have a clean bill from my psychiatrist.
The only thing that he suggested as a diagnosis is adjustment adjustment
disorder, which means that I'm adjusting to this torture.
Well, at what point did you decide to see a psychiatrist?
Oh, at the very beginning, because
I was actually hoping that it was a psychiatric disorder, because that way
it can be treated, but it's not.
This is,
you know, I had to educate my psychiatrist, but he's a he's a very smart.
Actually, every single one of my physicians
that take care of me or a neurologist, neurologist, psychiatrist, primary care
physician, and now Dr. Jordana in DC, who also confirmed they all on the same page.
This is my diagnosis.
I just remembered the brainwashing doctors name is Dr.
Ewan Cameron, Dr. Ewan Cameron and he's Russian.
No, he was American.
American. Oh, OK.
And this kind of funding goes on all the time.
And we often do it in other countries.
Long list of human experimentation by the National Institute of Health.
I actually I saw my neighbor this morning.
My neighbor worked for Honeywell for over 25, over 35 years, worked for Honeywell.
And I sort of briefly ran the
told him what I was who I was talking to today on the podcast.
And I talked about Havana syndrome.
And he said, oh, yeah, he goes, he goes, that's 100 percent real.
He's like, I know we've worked on weapons like that.
And so I know they work on the on those weapons at Raytheon.
He said, yeah, I can't talk about that.
But yeah, he's right.
You can't talk about it.
But you can confirm that I can confirm.
I can confirm that's all.
How
for people like you and your colleagues going to school, studying artificial
intelligence, what percentage of you got?
Are you guys when you guys are doing that?
Do you guys have aspirations to work for the military, work for the CIA to be spies?
Like what? No, I was a scientist.
I was, I mean, and I worked on advanced surveillance equipment and other things.
As a scientist, you just want to be working on cutting edge science.
You don't and you believe you're doing your country a favor and eventually be used
for good. And that's part of how you get funding from the Senate for billion
dollar projects is you have to have dual purpose one for civilian uses and one for
military and we don't really think of the implications for the negative part.
We just want to work on new cutting edge stuff.
And and it's also compartmentalized on the most part.
So a lot of people don't know how they're putting together a bigger weapon system.
They just work on a piece of it.
Isn't Facebook working on work?
Wasn't weren't they working on something called the empathy machine or something like that?
I was something I was, I think I talked about.
Yeah, yeah.
What what is that?
That is if you can induce these emotions, touch, torture, whatever,
in a way, it's kind of a beautiful thing if you have a partner and they say something
that hurts their feelings, you say something hurts their feelings,
you get to feel how they're feeling and vice versa.
So if you punch someone, you're going to feel the same pain that they do.
That's called the empathy machine.
But now imagine you go beyond two people.
Let's go to a hundred people.
Every time someone stubs their toe, they all feel the same pain.
It would feel like random torture to everybody.
Well, who stubbed their toe?
I can see that the first application, the most obvious thing I could see this thing
going to is pornography.
Yes, yes, they already have, you know, sort of virtual machines for right.
If they could if they could somehow make
if you could buy a subscription to some sort of pornography and make every single
guy watching this thing happen, you know, OK, now I don't know what I mean.
This is this is already being used.
I mean, if you talk to the victims, the TIs, one of the worst breakdowns,
and it's it's pretty common.
I think I can say the word simulated rape
and forced orgasm.
You can say anything you want.
This is the internet and so simulated orgasms and rape is extremely common and
right, especially violating for women.
They complain about that torture breakdown the most.
But you're right.
What's the positive views?
Where? Where is it the most lucrative?
Where is it? Where is it the most financially beneficial?
Like, where can you make the most money in this thing?
You think that would be the most obvious first?
That would be the first.
Yeah, I think of the problem would have to be regulated because we know the seven
pleasure centers of the brain.
And let's just say we don't have to stick in electrodes.
We use ultrasonic helmet like the University of Arizona is doing to target certain parts
of the brain, you just sit there and press the button all day.
Yes, there's a story of a woman that that what's the story?
There's a story of a woman who was in the hospital.
Something was wrong with her.
You may know, but she had a button.
And every time she pressed it, it made her orgasm and she was just doing it and
doing it and doing it until she was basically a vegetable.
Yeah, you eventually quit eating.
You would die.
So the government would have to step in to regulate this somehow.
And I don't think a lot of my research just focuses on the net.
They're tortured people that target the breakdown.
They're the most vocal.
They're the loudest.
But there is a classification weapon system called the voice of God.
And I've met some of these people.
Oh, sorry, a classification, a classified weapon system.
It's just the categorization called voice of God weapons.
Anything you can make.
OK, someone here believe it's God and these are real.
Yes, these are these are publicly.
There's Newsweek about them.
So it's been out for a while.
Voice of God weapons.
Voice of God. Sorry to interrupt.
Go ahead.
And so I've run into people randomly who believe they're talking to God.
God doesn't have a voice.
I don't think I don't know what he sounds like.
But but they're convinced and they'll do whatever this voice tells them.
And that's the dangerous part.
That's another form of trickery.
God wants you to go on a killing spree.
But some people would do that.
You're on a God's army.
So you can see how this broad swath all over the world, not only is it
experimental, it could be very much a secret army of assassins.
And so I call them programmed assassins.
But the positive part, the voice of God, it worked in the Gulf Wars.
Go for when we said Allah, Allah lay down your arms.
That's a voice of God weapon.
OK, is this and you can't talk about or can you talk about this is something that
you were involved with?
A little bit, a little bit.
Who was doctor?
Is this something that Dr. Jose Delgato talked about?
Well, and who was he and what specifically did he
work on?
Dr. Jose Delgato.
He was looking at Boston.
He was as known as the father of brain chips.
And so he was from Yale University.
And he did a lot of brain experimentation, stuff that is unethical.
We wouldn't allow today, per se.
But we made progress of understanding the brain.
He would actually wire up people.
His most famous experiment was with the bull.
He could make a planted ball with a radio frequency chip.
And he could make a bull stop from charging by pressing a button.
And that impressed everybody quite a bit.
Wow.
But that that's using brain chips and where was he?
Was he in the United States?
Yeah, no.
But you don't need chips anymore.
OK, this is him with the bull.
Yeah, there he is.
Dr. Jose Delgato steps into the Spanish bull ring as a bull demonstration of his research.
The risky behavioral control demonstration.
Wow.
And he was working with the government.
He had a famous quote, didn't he?
Yes, he did.
And so you can bring up the quote, mankind does not have a right to develop his own mind.
Austin, pull up his quote.
So what was Delgato working?
What did he do?
Where was he working from?
What was he working in one of the universities?
Yes, he was working at Yale Medical School.
And he would insert wires into people's brains.
And, you know, there's always two sides to this story.
OK, here it is.
Man does not have the right to develop his own mind.
The kind of liberal orientation, this kind of liberal orientation has great appeal.
We must electrically control the brain.
Someday, armies and generals will be in control by electrical stimulation of the brain.
And that was in the sixties, I believe.
Well, that's heavy.
We've come a long way since.
Yeah, I mean, if he was if people were openly talking about that in the sixties,
where are we now and where are other nations like China and Russia and Iran?
We boycotted recently like over a hundred countries from doing
companies in China because they were working on mind control technologies.
So,
you know, it's very much out in the open, but it's just people don't want to
recognize their soul, so to speak, can be touched.
They're very ego, their sense of self can be altered.
They're not in control of their own emotions.
That means if you don't have free will or autonomy or choice,
democracies don't exist.
That means religions don't exist.
That means a whole bunch of things.
Markets are can be shaped, moved up or down at will based on people's preferences.
It's total domination of the world.
That's how important and why it's kept so secret.
It's I think it's the it's the ultimate weapon because you can control the people
with their fingers on nuclear weapons.
You're one step ahead.
So this is this is kind of the end game as full control of the human mind.
And at scale, at scale, that's right, of the world.
It's kind of hard to even wrap my mind around.
It is something bigger than yourself is always hard to imagine.
And so that's why the monkey brain experiments that they were doing at Duke.
We can't fathom what us three of our brains were connected at the speed of thought
could come up with or think about.
We have to use vibrations from our throat deciphered through our brains,
through our ears and then and talk.
You know, it's kind of an outdated form of communication amongst brains.
Well, I mean, think about if something
like Neuralink actually came onto the market as a consumer product that people
could get these this neural net put inserted into their brain and they could
give them the ability to learn new skills instantaneously or download books
within seconds or the advantage economically would be astounding.
Yes.
And more and more people would adopt this.
In order to compete.
In order to compete.
But the skit like so what would be so the downside of something like this is
once you have this, it would be no problem.
You would almost assume that the government would be able to control.
Have some level of control over this?
It would have to.
And that's why they're kind of experimenting.
What are the potential downfalls?
We have a term of mind viruses.
How? How do means pass?
Mind viruses.
Could you hack of all the minds were connected?
Could you insert a virus that, you know, might shut down the human race?
That's fascinating.
You know, the term mind virus, I've used that and I've heard it used a lot
when it comes to things like QAnon.
Are you familiar with QAnon?
I heard of them.
Yes.
So there's a group.
It's basically it's a group of people online who follow this anonymous poster
on these these threads, these like forums.
And this guy pretends to be like he pretended to be one of Trump's right hand
guys, and he would make these anonymous posts talking to all these people.
And all these people called him Q and they thought that this guy was real.
This guy was one of the people right next to him.
He'd make these cryptic anonymous quotes.
And there was this there was this like super hyper.
Just like hyper passionate group, political group of people who follow,
who are Trump supporters and they believe that this Q person was going to save them
and giving them these directives of what was going to happen next and to be
prepared for the storm that's coming and that led to the capital being raided.
And they find all these little things they find like something Trump said
during one of his speeches and, OK, that sentence means this.
That means we have to storm the capital and they keep finding all these
synchronicities online and they think they mean something more.
Humans look for meaning and purpose.
And we find it in the strangest places.
It's like looking at clouds will see shapes.
Is it chaos or is it order?
It almost seems that I mean, if anything
seems like a mind virus, something like that seems like it's a mind virus.
But it really affected.
If you look at the people it affected, it affected a certain type of people.
It affected certain people that were lonely, didn't have a lot going on,
didn't have some sort of larger sense of a community.
They didn't have big families.
Sometimes it was it was like a woman living alone in an apartment and her kids
weren't even living with her anymore.
People that just had
just sort of like misfits, they all had a very similar social life and social
intelligence. So how would you build?
If you look at us, community, the whole human race, maybe the planet is a whole
organism, how would you build an immune system to fight against something like that?
Now, I'm I do not believe in censorship myself.
But how would you stop the flow of a mind virus?
And so they're experimenting with things like interaction with other human beings.
Yeah, not through screens, not through social media.
Yeah, I feel like the more people are just accustomed to like again,
this is another one of the commonalities between these people is they all their
communication with other humans was through a phone or through a computer.
They didn't spend time like this having conversations with people.
And like, what the fuck are you talking about?
You're full of shit.
Like, are you serious?
But like, like, like having somebody actually poke holes in what they're
saying and question what they're talking about.
Instead of it's just as it's just this echo chamber of the same idea that's
bouncing back and forth. Yeah, I fully agree that it's an echo chamber.
There are other terms like medic viruses, means that turn into viruses.
You're familiar with those that get posted around.
And but, you know, the the utopia, the kind of angle that people,
the visionary see with this technology, they know that transhumanism can't be
stopped at this point, but they want to take the safest route.
So a lot of these experiments are,
unfortunately, sacrifices that will help the future generations.
And that's kind of their internal marketing
employee of why they must do it in the end.
There's a race between, you know, the three major countries
who's going to have the best AI, whose culture is going to survive,
whose money is going to dominate, whose, you know, language is going to dominate.
And so this is very competitive field in the military right now,
who can collect the most minds, the fastest ability,
the biggest hive mind network.
And so there are my next book is called, it's not published yet.
It's called Emergent Minds,
the birth of a new species.
And that's under the three books that I've written of cyber and cybernetic warfare
revealed.
And it's it's going to be about kind of these
architectures, topologies of humans, nodes,
computing units, very cold, the way it's described.
But the I'm trying to bring out the ethics of all this.
The human race has to have
a discussion and this has to be on the mainstream media.
Havana syndrome.
Well, what is it?
They don't seem to care.
They're hushing it.
They don't.
We know what it is because it's been around so long.
We know the type of weapons used.
Well, there's no financial incentive for them to talk about it either.
True, other than being good reporters.
Right.
But that's not that's not an incentive.
No, no, it's not an incentive anymore.
So the big question is how this energy is delivered.
So National Academy of Sciences in 2020 issued a report about this Havana
syndrome, incidents or anomalous health incidents as the government wants us to
call it and the most plausible hypothesis is.
Directed pulse microwave energy.
So that's the causative agent.
That's what causes the brain damage.
Directed pulse microwave energy.
Yeah, pulse is very, very important because if you just microwave, it just heats up.
But short pulses produce that thermoelastic effect.
So the tissue is just expanding and collapsing in in that way.
It heats up just enough to induce damage or produce that audio,
that free effect to hear sound or modulated voices, things like that.
So pulse is very, is very important in this scenario.
But that report did not say how it can be delivered.
And when you look at the 60 minutes report,
they show these devices that can fit into a small car or
maybe backpack or a truck or a van.
But that's an outdated technology.
I question and Robert made me question whether it is a local source.
You know, somebody sits in the van and shoots a microwave at you.
So we took a trip to West West Virginia, where there's a radio national quiet zone.
So there's no there's no cell towers.
There are no there's no Wi-Fi.
There's no cell phone.
Only received for satellite signal.
There's no phone signal, no phone signal, no Wi-Fi.
And we got inside the reason they created that zone is because there's a
deep space telescope radar, basically, that received received signals from the state.
So they don't want any interference.
The zone one, the closest to these radars is actually has a radio police
that monitors the signals.
They don't allow cars with ignition because it produces electric.
Wow, electromagnetic signal.
So I got next to the biggest radar and got attacked.
So people that, you know, there's no van outside.
So when you got to this place, you what you experienced one of the experience
one of the attacks is when you have to walk there.
There's no because, you know, can't take a car.
So when several miles.
Got there, was attacked.
So definitely not a local effect.
It's coming from somewhere and you have a satellite signal,
but you also have things like harp that can a harp stands for high altitude.
A rural research project.
And it's a one of the world's largest phased arrays.
It's used for weather modification, steering.
Weather modification.
Well, that's one of the things it can do.
What is weather modification?
Oh, steering hurricanes, you know, for more for.
Yeah, you heat the ionosphere and you can guide the weather.
That's just one of the.
This is a thing.
Well, yeah, I would pull it up.
And what's it called?
Harp, H-A-R-P and you can steer hurricanes.
Well, they don't actually, they just say weather modification.
What does that mean?
Yeah, I mean, I guess the mind can get creative.
But it operates also as an over horizon radar system to tech missile launches
in Russia, for example.
And it.
Because we've been hit.
I've been hit by about a dozen hurricanes since I've lived here.
Oh, yeah, I wish they would control them a little better.
Exactly.
And so, you know, you were asking, what is some of the good tech that could come out
of this, why aren't they steering the hurricanes away from the coast?
Maybe the Russians are doing it.
We always blame everything on the Russians.
But it has a lot.
It's also often by a Dr.
Ninnick baggage.
Focused on mind control over populations.
It what it really does a lot of at least the air and it's run by the Air Force Army
and Navy.
It heats the anonosphere.
Uh, which causes the the current
radar signals, ultra high frequency waves to be able to cover the earth.
Now, there is a electric gradient between ground, the earth and the anonosphere ions.
And then we are bathed in a magnetic field.
Those two perpendicular
fields, a lot of high energy physics, such as nuclear magnetic resonance
image occurs, we turn the earth into one giant MRI machine.
So we can image on their ground bases.
We can do a lot of things that people don't believe.
They'll say the Boltzmann.
I won't use scientific words.
They just say the thermal effect.
You can't do MRIs under under earth's magnetic, natural magnetic field.
We've been doing it easily since the 60s and universities.
So a recent article came out.
Wow, we can recover dreams and play them back and
we can read the inner vocabulary of somebody, what they're thinking, talking
to themselves with their inner voice, using a functional nuclear magnetic
resonance imaging machine, you know, like in a hospital, but that's a higher
higher resolution, but they just use new algorithms to do it.
And it was very accurate for a bunch of people, which is interesting.
They say it's new.
Well, I mean, it's obviously not new, but
or they can read people's inner thoughts.
Yeah, yeah.
So you have a
youth think as you I don't know how you read.
Some people read or think in images, we can read the images.
Some people think in words.
And it's about 60 percent to 40 percent of the population does one or the other.
That's able to decipher each one.
Yeah, yeah.
So you some people will go through a grocery shopping list.
Apple.
I need a toilet paper and he said that and they they think in the words.
Those can be deciphered.
Other people think the image when they create those is less.
And so each one is a brain signature.
And when you have a sample of a large enough population, you get just like
in Amazon's Echo.
You can
more sample voice samples they have.
Yeah.
And I worked on voice sampling technology way back when now it's so good.
I mean, Alexa, it's just amazing that it can
understand human language without any practice because they've had so many samples.
Well, similarly, we need as more brain samples and that's part of the reason,
I think, for a lot of this experimentation on the public, random people.
I'm trying to link it all back together.
So, Len, when you went to West Virginia and you went to this place that had no
connection to any cell towers, there was no phone signal anywhere.
And you had this attack.
What specifically happened to you?
Like, what can you walk me through?
How these attacks, like how they affect you?
What happens? How long they last, et cetera?
Just like I said before, it starts very suddenly.
It's vibration.
It's high pressure in the head and your whole body vibrates.
Definiting sound, you get your whole body vibrates.
Can you describe the sound that you hear?
Is it like someone in the cartoons hitting a pot around your head?
It's like high pitch electronic tenet.
Yeah, like like tinnitus, but suddenly on, suddenly on, suddenly on and it just grabs
you and you also hear voices and voices.
V2K is a part of it.
Eden Havana syndrome, I sent you that clip, the very first reporting by CNN.
They said that people hearing noises and voices.
And after that, there was no, it was not part of any reporting.
But the very first report on CNN contained that information.
So
and people think that hearing voices is is a sign of psychiatric disorder.
But it just takes a little bit of education to understand
this fray effect, this microwave hearing has been around for a long time,
has been known and voice modulation has been demonstrated in the 70s.
There's published literature about it that you can modulate the signal and it produces.
Dr. Lynn from the University of Chicago.
Yeah, Dr. Lynn Lynn from the University of Chicago.
He has a setup where he demonstrates the microwave hearing effect that he pulses it.
The person who's standing in the middle of the signal where it's focused can hear it.
And he does it on himself and that scares me.
I mean, he's heating up his brain listening to these clicks, these chirps is,
you know, they're called by the CIA or the diplomats, I'm sorry, that get hit.
And yeah, that's a sign of the microwave hearing effect.
And it creates small little micro concussions over time.
And what specific voices?
What what do the voices say?
All the derogatory stuff.
And I don't want to acknowledge it, don't want to give it credence.
But it's it's it's it's one of those
kind of shaming, derogatory, very negative.
Just yeah, if you have everyone has an ego,
they will go through the most
common ones first, you know, let's say
you're a woman and you're concerned about your your breast size.
Well, they'll go after that.
Or so they go, they're going at individuals specifically.
And so specific insecurities.
Yes.
But first they have to do a broad approach to find out what your insecurities.
It doesn't seem like time or cost effective.
They how would you go about if you were doing this
to millions of people, how would you scale it?
How would you have the time to go through each person?
Find out this person's overweight.
This person is short and be able to specifically tailor a voice to them.
I'll explain that.
Think of it as a lie detector machine.
It knows your stress levels.
They can read them.
You can do that for many different brain signals.
But the P 300 is a recognition signal, for example.
It's just a term
that's used for a specific strong effect after a stimulus.
There's recognition.
But if it's a lie detector test,
what are the polygraph?
Polygraph, well, we'll say those.
You can defeat those with a little practice.
Of course. Yeah, polygraphs are bullshit.
Yeah, they're totally bullshit.
But you can imagine.
OK, so this is some form of a lie detector test,
but maybe it uses heart rate and can measure
some other factors other than necessarily neuronal ones.
But whatever bothers you, it will continue doing.
So let's say this is a robot chat chat bot that's very convincing.
Voice morphing.
And
we've sampled where the NSA.
We sampled your
I don't know anything about your family.
So hopefully
your great grandfather, he's dead, right?
So we can bring him back to life.
We can use his voice.
We can voice morphem and we can project it.
And we'll say using the microwave hearing effect with a robot.
We will go through.
It doesn't matter if you had a good relationship with a more bad.
We're going to turn him into a bad guy.
Let's say you, you know, you're going to respect them or something.
I know this is a off the wall kind of scenario,
but they make it much more personal than that.
So whose voice do you have?
Tell them my family, your family, my family.
They live in Germany.
They speak Russian and German.
I speak Russian, bad Russian now in English.
So all my V2K is in Russian.
It is. Yes.
It's multi-language.
It's my mother, my father, my brother and his wife.
And they all talk about my lifestyle choices, everything, everything.
Everything derogatory.
And I know it's not them.
It's artificial intelligence because nobody talks 24 seven because my V2K is 24 seven.
I sleep in noise canceling headphones and I play
voice audio books nonstop.
So my brain would concentrate on that rather than on what's been projected into my brain.
Does it help at all?
What helps what helps you cope with this most?
What have you done? What have you tried?
Distracting, distracting.
Sometimes I have to use my own voice.
I have to talk to somebody the second it stops.
The second the silence begins, the voices come back.
And they also use something like
if you have some kind of white noise like a fan or a
AC, yeah, it rides on it.
It's piggybacks on those frequencies.
It's called the EG heterodyne.
So the nerve cells from your ears to your brain can also be stimulated.
So if there's a nice background noise, broad spectrum, it can even be pink noise,
which means lower noise spectrum.
It can amplify
a recognition signal like a voice
who's like using the talking guitar.
Remember that song? Who does that?
And it's a guitar that sounds like it talks to the audience.
I'm spacing who does that.
But it was very unique at the time.
What it's doing is it's heterodyning a voice signal onto the guitar.
Well, now imagine heterodyning
someone's voice on to nerve signals of the background noise.
And that's what's going on with projecting voices into
let's say fans, refrigerator noises, street noises.
But my favorite one was on that I heard about was a woman who could hear voices.
And this was on television and she she ended up
doing some bad things, but she could hear Rice Krispy's talk to her.
I was like, oh, yeah, that's background noise.
That would make sense.
So it's it's it's eerie.
It's something you have to experience.
And I was going to make a machine to do that, to try to demonstrate it to the common man.
And I just, you know, I have so many projects I'm working on.
I never got around to it, but it's hard to mention that somebody would do something
like that to you, but it is and in the first thought that probably comes to your
mind is that there's something wrong with me.
Psychiatrically, I mean, this this is if I didn't know about the existence of this
technology, this would be my guess that this person developed delusional
disorder. This is a paranoid schizophrenia.
But first of all, nobody develops paranoid schizophrenia in the fifties, in their fifties.
This is, you know, if you haven't developed it by 30, it's not.
Then this technology exists, these nefarious
programs exist, and it's hard to imagine for a person that why would you do something
like this?
But if you think about the new type of warfare,
it's a cognitive warfare, exactly.
It's a cognitive warfare.
You can't you don't have to kill people, people that you are fighting against.
You can just degrade their brain.
You can you alter their minds, alter their minds, personalities.
And it's like Chinese torture.
I mean, this yeah.
OK, so whatever they they they're talking to your head into your head.
Just ignore it.
You can't it's 24 seven.
It's nonstop and it's accompanied by these attacks that make you so vulnerable.
Read them the definition of directed energy weapons.
Oh, you may not have it in front of it, but it's kind of interesting.
You can pull it up.
I send to you to they drop it.
The definition of directed energy weapons systems and directed energy weapons systems.
And what they they say in this particular definition was interesting
that it's disablement of personnel.
Now, what how could you disable a person?
OK, most people think directed energy a laser beam.
OK, you burn them a few times.
It's not really disabling them.
Making them dysfunctional.
That would be scrambling their brains.
It'd be dopamine dumps that would be making, you know, concussion weapons.
It would be somehow affecting their nervous system so they drop on the ground.
So it's a combination of psychological warfare as well as directed energy weapons,
along with the voice of God weapons with voice and working with artificial
intelligence chatterbots.
It's a very it's the most complex weapon system we have put together ever as a species.
Wow.
And do you think this is something that the United States is working on
because other nations are working on it as well?
Is it a competitive thing?
Yeah, it's very is it like a just an internal governmental control thing?
It was something called Project Paperclip, where we split up German scientists.
Operation Paperclip.
Yeah, I'm familiar with it.
We talk about all the rocket scientists we got and put them into NASA and other programs.
We don't talk about the Nazi scientists.
We don't talk about the mind scientists we got.
Those were kind of classified.
That's where a lot of this research started.
Now, if we got half of them, so did the Russians.
So it's been a week compete with, you know, our intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Of course, we're going to compete with cognitive warfare.
Total control of the mind.
CIA agent called Mark Phillips, he's unfortunately passed away.
He did a lot of work on exposing this type of world domination through psychological warfare.
And he also helped a woman.
Who's name? Oh, Kathy.
Well, I can remember, Kathy.
And she and he helped her out of the program,
deprogrammed her and some other things.
And they wrote a book together.
It's very popular.
Um, yeah, that's about all I can say for now.
Len, what, uh, when you talk to other people who have experienced the same thing you have
and that are going through the same thing, do you guys do anything to or do you guys talk
about things to do to be proactive in sort of mitigating the effects of this happening
from to you guys and to people in the future to multiple people?
Is there a way to deter this or is there a way to avoid this from happening?
This, this has to become a political issue.
The politicians have to the government first.
First of all, the government has to acknowledge that this is happening to civilians,
not just to the diplomats and spies overseas.
It is happening domestically.
My case can be swept under the rug.
I have every expert that I've seen.
I have a validated case as validated as as those diplomats that are listed
in the intelligence report, the latest intelligence report on the subject was issued
on February 1st of this year.
It's a joint report of the Office of DNI of Director of National Intelligence
and CIA, and they said two dozen cases.
We can't explain and they're in the most plausible explanation is directed
pulse microwave energy.
I am exactly in that category.
My case is valid, validated.
I have brain damage.
I have vestibular damage and
the agency that's supposed to investigate it is the FBI because I'm a civilian.
It's happening domestically.
They ignore it.
They I went to my congresswoman.
She brought an inquiry to the FBI and they basically
responded with a nonsensical letter that something that there are no facts that
any law is broken or it's under our jurisdiction.
I am a civilian.
My brain is accessed remotely and damaged on the regular basis.
In three and a half years, you look at my brain scan and it looks like a battlefield.
All those delta connection, all this broken connection, the connectivity.
My vestibular organs are shot.
I if I close my eyes, I stand up, close my eyes, I will fall.
So he asked what else we're doing and in order to stop this.
And a lot of us do research
jammers on certain frequencies on certain patterns seems to help some jammers.
That means with the electromagnetic signal,
like electro and magnetic in the L.F.
wave range or other ranges people found, it gives them some relief.
It blocks the tinnitus.
What even if they're not targeted individual, what could explain a frequency
or set up a pattern now that would turn off tinnitus for people?
I mean, great.
You know, you were talking about economic advantage.
I mean, even if it has nothing to do with this,
half the public suffers from tinnitus or tinnitus as you like.
And we we protested when I say we, I mean,
the people that I represent in front of the White House and, you know,
writing all the congressmen, every imaginable thing you can imagine,
getting hold of newspapers and and writing the FBI, which is funny.
Yesterday, there was an article or a piece that came out.
It said the FBI is now being attacked by the right in Miami, right?
Yeah, you sent me that.
Right. And the attorney who represents
victims, I sent you that article, by the way,
Mark Zade, he repeatedly he had several statements in and about this being
a government cover up.
And what he means by it is that the government knows what's going on.
And the government would not acknowledge any domestic cases needed
with a federal happening to federal employees or civilians.
And the government needs to acknowledge it.
Then it needs to investigate it and it needs to stop it because I am a part of
general public and my message is if it can happen to me, my brain can be
remotely accessed and damaged.
It can happen to anyone.
Because I'm not I'm I'm literally nobody.
I'm just happened to be on the radar.
They probably got a sample of my DNA and DNA has resonant frequency.
This is just like a tuning fork.
It will vibrate if the frequency is correct.
Well, every molecule has a resonant frequency and DNA is a mal is just another
molecule that unique to you.
Therefore, the resonant frequency is also unique to you.
So just like we can find from a satellite
scanning in, you know, visually, we can I think in the seventies,
they will break and we can we can see a license plate from a satellite.
But it doesn't have to be a visual.
You can just scan for frequency.
You can find that frequency like you like just like you can find your cell phone
anywhere on the planet because we have full satellite coverage.
We have we have access through this.
That's the best analogy I've heard is put all your cell phones in a big bag.
Why does only one ring because of resonance frequencies?
Everything is resonance.
And that's what you mean.
Why does only one you put all your cell phones in a bag and you in someone dials
a phone number only that phone number will ring.
Why is that?
And so people kind of wonder how can you target a single human or a single brain
amongst the whole room of people?
Right. And that's just a good analogy.
You guys were talking about something about twins about maternal or paternal twin?
Oh, yeah, I was just saying the same DNA.
If they have, if that theory is correct,
and it's a theory because I haven't studied it, that you can tune in
altered DNA patterns and I don't see why not.
You couldn't do that.
But you would the first thing I do is go find, you know, identical twins.
Find out if they are being targeted when they're in the same room, you know,
or if you can find a pair that one is targeted and one is not.
And why would that be they have identical DNA?
So it's still a theory at this point that he's projecting.
Yeah, it's it's a speculation.
And the other way to find somebody by their brain signature also, just you scan.
The area and whatever resonates, you know, you get the signal back.
That's your target and you apply that energy to that
target, which is a human brain.
Hmm.
Yeah, there are actually several several modalities and methods and
tactic and techniques that we can use to alter brain patterns and
stimulate the nervous system.
It's usually done on monkeys.
You can find the research from the Navy and other organizations.
So that sponsored some of these horrific
things on life that feels pain.
And, you know, our history isn't that great, isn't pleasant when things are exposed.
You know, there are a hundred other things going on that haven't been.
So the idea with individuals and specific people like Len, people like
the lawyer and and I think it was Tallahassee is that you can use this sort
of artificial artificial intelligence voice in the head to break down the ego
and control an individual to perform certain acts.
Ultimately, yes.
And and in Project Soulcatcher, I referred to a Myron May
as a Myron May, right, as a Psycho Bomb.
They didn't care who the target was.
They were just trying to make them explode and do something bad.
And if the problem is if these people do explode and do something bad like this,
there's absolutely no way to prove that there has been any sort of manipulation
to the brain.
In this guy's case, he talked about it.
I mean, obviously he thought it was covered up by the way they write the article.
He sounds like a crazy person.
Yeah, yeah, that's part of plausible deniabilities and direction.
That's another another fascinating thing with the CIA is the use of conspiracies
to sort of create stigma around certain things, certain technologies or certain
topics, whether, for example, if they are working on something, they want to create
stigma and create conspiracy theories around certain things to sort of use that
as a weapon against that idea.
Yeah.
And in fact, the Homeland Security now, Biden has weaponized them
that that there are dangerous conspiracies and we got to stop these.
Right. That's another yes.
So your broadcasts, we may all be arrested.
I don't know this might be a dangerous conspiracy
or we're telling the truth, then we're saving lives because knowledge.
Have you have knowledge ahead of time?
When would you have gone through as much pain?
I mean, you would have you would have been able better to cope early on.
So we're trying to spread awareness and knowledge of you know that it's a machine
and not your actual family, let's say, berating you in mind control.
So powerful, these weapons and voice to God.
I mean, we are you have no ability to discern like looking at computers and
television, what goes into your mind?
It is directly stimulating those neurons to think that.
So I mean, it's taking is bypassing your peripheral vision.
Some people can see through their third eye and that's called in psychology,
the visual workspace.
Some people can smell artificial things, taste artificial things.
All the senses have been bypassed like in the movie The Matrix.
They're literally plugged in to a synthetic
controlled reality that they cannot differentiate from their external bodily senses.
Do you do you have any reason to believe
that organizations like the CIA have used stigma as a as a tool
to discredit these kind of conversations?
It's unfortunate.
We've we had laws, I think, passed in the 70s that
psyops by our Pentagon, our military Pentagon, CIA, etc.
could not be done to the American public, because that's kind of ruining
the whole idea of democracy.
But that was reversed after 9 11 and some other events since.
So I don't I mean, it's just the it's the game of war war games
that all countries play with each other.
Of course, they're going to do it.
I just don't like that they're doing it to my population.
And is there evidence that they've been doing it?
Yes, it's it's everywhere in what I do.
It's everywhere.
Yeah.
And a lot of times what I do in my research,
because I'm a scientist is I'll go through the patent office, let's say.
And
there's obvious economic good science that's going to lead somewhere.
And then a big black space.
I look in those black spaces.
Why isn't there more research there?
It went dark.
The patents were pulled.
The research went dark.
There are a lot of examples that
then and this is the biggest one for me that woke me up from the matrix.
Is this technology's world changing?
And people are complaining about it everywhere that
the news won't cover it.
I mean, that is a huge cover up.
And it's all and all they have to say is you're crazy.
And then the response is, well, maybe you're just dumb.
You know, there are two forms of you can be an ultimate skeptic,
which will get you nowhere.
You can be totally, you know, gullible.
And those are two extremes.
And just to, you know, your research, you'll see all this.
What do you think?
I think the biggest problem is people
can't imagine how much this neuroscience advanced, how much it matured,
what the possibilities are.
It is often described as science fiction, but
it is totally real.
It's it's real.
And every newer weapon expert from Giordano to McCrae to Christian and their
colleagues are saying,
this is no longer science fiction.
This is this is reality you have to accept.
And we have to deal with it.
That the civilian population is attacked.
The technology exists.
Your brain can be accessed remotely, damaged remotely.
And and we need to have a public conversation about it.
Let me ask you, Danny,
don't you think Hollywood and a lot of movies and etc.
are slowly getting the next generation ready to accept this kind of technology?
There are so many movies made about it.
And but they're in the realm of science fiction.
It would be a good way to make someone like Elon Musk, the scapegoat, for example.
We just developed this technology.
And so
and maybe you can cure mental illness.
This is my hypothesis.
They're going to stop it one day.
They're going to say we have
neuro technology that can retrain the brain out of its dysfunctional patterns.
Suddenly, they just, you know, they quit torturing the people, the TIs, and they
don't do anymore.
And they just say, well, it's because we found a cure.
And that's how they're going to excuse all the past atrocities.
This is called a mental cost,
which is meant to side the killing of the mind.
And it's done on a mass scale, a mental cost.
And I think they're going to get away with it.
I really do.
I know that's depressing, but I don't think
we're going to be able to expose this because it will it will create anarchy if people believe it.
How many weapons, how many different projects like this are going on right now
that are completely hidden from the public that the public has no idea about?
So things like what we're talking about right now, people are aware of it.
People have been aware of it for a while.
People have been talking about Havana syndrome for a while.
Nothing has been done, really.
But I mean, things like this, people are at least aware of how many more things are
there beneath the surface that people don't have any idea about.
They're all interconnected in wars about
ultimately controlling the enemy, the book, the art of war is an excellent short read.
And it's to make your enemy believe you're near when you are far.
It's to believe you are weak when you are strong.
It's to believe you are, you know, unorganized when you're very smart and strategic.
And so they do, they play all these games
along with the torture scripts right out of the books on the target.
And they make them believe that their neighbor with a ray gun is doing it to them or a van.
They, you know, you are near when you're actually far.
And all they have to do is jump on an airplane and find out who will follow them anywhere.
The the how many projects.
They're so integrated, they're numerous, they're numerous.
You know, but you see the beginnings of like a I remember as a child, I made a maser.
Maser is like a laser.
Microwave just stands for Microwave Amplification Stimulated Mission Radiation.
But now we really have guns like that.
And the Navy just had hooked up a big argon laser.
It shoots down missiles on their ships.
So you can see the beginnings often times.
What is there's something called like Project Bluebeam?
Yeah, good one.
What is that?
That is lasers, right?
Yeah, I can I can actually talk about that one.
But that is
it's really bad.
But, you know, the people that see orbs in the sky, yeah, go around and fly faster.
UFOs, UFOs.
Yeah, there's there's Navy pilots.
There's a multiple Navy pilots who talk about they got there.
So they were flying F-18s, these these Navy pilots.
And one of them is coming in here in a couple in two weeks.
He's Ryan Graves.
OK, he he's a Navy pilot flying off the coast of North Carolina.
And they they got their their radar upgraded on their F-18s.
And all of a sudden they were seeing these things darting around on their radar.
OK,
don't tell them what I'm about to say and see if he knows about it.
OK.
So what we do is we play with our own forces to make sure
our trickery will work on the enemy.
And those are directed energy weapons of where we do intersecting beams or focus
beams into the atmosphere.
And notice they're always in the atmosphere to excite the electron orbitals
of the oxygen and nitrogen in our atmosphere.
And it causes a glow and it causes ionization.
That ionization shows up on radar and like a it's like a cat laser pointer.
And we're making planes chase them.
That's exactly how they describe these things moving like laser pointers.
And so we can do it in three space.
We can make it look like in three dimensional space.
And we can make it look like an entire fleet is about to drop bombs
on, let's say, Europe and then just happen to disappear.
And they had they get all their planes up in the air and we attack them from the
other direction, assuming we're attacking you.
Who is doing this?
The Navy, you said.
Somebody.
Let's just say a group, a group, you know,
and you know this for a fact.
I know. Perfect. Yeah.
So anyway, don't tell your group within the US government.
OK, we'll leave it at that.
Yes.
And is this something?
Is this something that could be seen with the naked eye?
Yes, because it glows.
It glows.
So it would be seeable.
You can see it by the naked eye and it would leave a radar trace.
So it's perfect as a deception.
Now, have you heard of the accounts of these things going underwater?
These things come out of the water, zip around, they fly.
They've there's been accounts of these things going in between when there's two
F-18s flying in formation.
One of them, they're described as one of them specifically, which Ryan Graves
describes as a sphere with a cube inside and each apex of the cube is touching the sphere.
OK, now I don't know about that technology.
So that's different.
I know you can make this appear as it goes in water,
but it wouldn't have the shape of a cube.
You can make them cigar shape.
You can alter it somewhat.
And I've worked on holography quite a bit, but nothing is detailed holograms.
Yeah, holograms in three dimensional space.
There's a Japanese company, so I can talk about the use of them.
Fento pulsed lasers to create touchable holograms,
tiny little laser beams that excite the air and in their midpoints and then create
different colors. Now, is this something that they would be able to do
on a massive scale, 100 miles offshore?
Well, that's the thing.
I don't think so.
But I'm saying they just create, you know, little orbs to split them up and make them
do cool things and, you know, the razzle, dazzle, shucking off back to war.
Right. Oh, and you asked me of a Project Bluebeam.
Well, that's what it's about.
And it involves the voice of God weapons that I was talking about.
Project Bluebeam does.
And this got leaked.
So it probably won't have the effect and they probably won't do it.
But if you wanted to bring the world
together, as President Reagan said and several UN speeches,
you would have a common enemy like evil aliens attacking.
We forget our differences and we fight against it.
We would look at each other as Chinese or Russian or American.
We look at each other as Earthlings.
It's her humans. Yeah, as Earthlings.
And so that was Project Bluebeam was to trick the human race and to believe
either God is coming down, everybody hears the voice of God, the microwave
hearing effect, get along, give whatever the new message is.
Or it was going to be the evil aliens attacking.
And notice how they all of a sudden, all the governments release all their
information on UFOs and there's a whole
division dedicated and that's just deception.
You think it's all deception?
I think it's all deception, yeah.
But, you know, that's my opinion.
I've looked at all the videotapes and that people have given me and I can
explain away each one of them.
So apparently, but there's there's apparently lots of footage and video
videos and photos that have not been released to the public.
Yeah, I haven't seen those.
I can't. And if you think this is all some sort of
PSYOP, what do you think the ultimate purpose of it is?
Distraction against a lot of this human experimentation.
We're doing.
Distraction, distraction.
Remember, I told you the people I interview,
they're actually told we're evil aliens and we're doing this to you.
You know, some of them are people that are dealing with something.
Exactly.
How many people have you interviewed personally?
Two thousand five hundred, roughly.
Twenty five hundred.
So I have a good sample point of all the trickery they use on their targets.
Now, when you do these interviews, do you sit down in person with all of them?
You know, a lot of them over at the phone or internet.
OK, so I'm a record them.
No, I respect people's privacy and that's late.
And I always worry they don't give you permission to record it.
They some of them do.
And I say, no, I'm not leaving any trace that if I
I'm a little paranoid, but I get rated.
I don't want anyone's name attached to me.
You know, that was just my policy and it's like any good shrink.
You don't, you don't
you keep people's privacy.
So with artificial intelligence, the way it's evolving
in the military sector and in the commercial sector,
if there's no accountability or transparency
for the development of this kind of technology, how is it possible
to be optimistic about the future of humanity?
Let's just say this is a
catastrophic evolutionary event of the human race.
I don't think it can be stopped.
There's a weapon system,
acronym Satan, silent assassination through adaptive networks.
And that's neural networks, which is artificial intelligence or social networks.
Very complex system.
But it's
and it's a combination of tactics as well as artificial
manipulation.
I.
I am not.
I do not think the future looks good for humans the way we are.
Now, you could go with the Klaus Schwab way.
We genetically engineer everyone to be happy with nothing, you know, or using mind
control. We stimulate the seven pleasure centers of the brain while people work and
are productive, and if they're not, we give them a little pain and behavioral
modify the human race that way so they're happy little slaves.
And then there are a whole bunch of ways this could turn out,
but humans will not be the same.
So you're not optimistic about the future.
No, I'm not.
I'm not.
And that's assuming we don't kill ourselves, you know,
nuclear war is looming.
It's a very real possibility.
Putin might want to take the world with him, you know,
it's hard to know what will happen.
We have, I don't even know if this is public knowledge, but we have something
like thirteen hundred class three bio pathogenic bio weapons development labs
in the U.S. alone about another leak like we had in Wuhan, perhaps.
You know, I don't know if that.
Yeah, there's so many possibilities.
There's so many possibilities and just getting into the fringe of neuro weapons
and lasers is something that boggles my mind.
But it seems like nukes are a primitive
they are every one we have now.
Yeah, everyone can build a nuke.
We monitor the world to make sure they're not.
In fact, that's why we got into the war with Iraq.
Because we had bad intel.
We thought they were actually purifying uranium weapons, math, destruction, etc.
Those are justification to the public.
Yeah, the CIA denies it said no,
they told them those parts that they bought were not for purifying uranium or plutonium.
Anyway, that's their internal battle.
It's a primitive weapon and no one wants to use them because it destroys
buildings, property, stuff.
But they want to do is change the people's culture or mine.
That's a competition of that.
That would be the best weapon.
That's why mine controlled weapons or neuro weapons and cognitive weapons are
are everyone's racing to do.
Now, you can still use bullets and bombs that destroys buildings as well.
You could use a neutron bomb that just irradiates a dirty bomb that
irradiates the city and kills the people.
But then it's radioactive for, you know, 50 years and unusable.
So China said the future wars that they're looking at are going to be
biological viral, mostly and then robot wars, literally, you know,
we have Boston Dynamics where
they have their equivalent and these dogs with
I'm not making this up, but dogs with laser beams on them and and can target.
It sounds like an Austin Powers movie.
Sharks with laser beams on there, but machine guns and they can target
very accurately and right about 25 miles per hour.
They're vicious.
So war is going to take on a whole new shape for sure.
So the US government has recognized this as a real thing for people, former agents,
CIA agents, whatever, former diplomats, they're being taken care of medically
for this and they're being treated, correct?
And the problem is no civilians are being treated for us.
So two part question, how are the diplomatic people being treated for it?
How is it being recognized?
How is the government specifically recognizing them?
So there is Havana Act that the Congress passed and they
pull that thing a little bit.
It's published in the Federal Register and they
turn that light on, Austin.
They
listed they didn't list the diagnostic criteria, but they said
that a board certified neurologist can
diagnose it based on these these methods, MRI, EEG,
computer tomography.
So neurological damage acquired
due to hostile activity or something like that.
The Havana abbreviation, that's what it stands for.
There is no recognition from any government
agency that is happening domestically to either federal employees or civilians.
And my case is a perfect example of it.
I've been diagnosed.
I have the same diagnosis.
All the experts recognize it.
They're all on the same page.
The government would not investigate it, would not recognize it.
And if it doesn't recognize it,
it it wouldn't investigate, it wouldn't protect me.
It wouldn't protect other members of the general public.
And that's the problem.
That's the conversation that we need to have.
What kind of treatment are these former diplomats or former CIA agents getting for this?
As far as I understand, if their active attacks
stopped, the treatment is very similar to post traumatic brain injury.
It's basically rehabilitation.
In my case, I was recommended vestibular rehabilitation.
It simply doesn't work because I am being attacked every day.
So I go to vestibular rehab and they say, you're worse than last time.
I said, yeah, because I had several attacks in between.
So my attacks are ongoing and treating it is like putting a bandaid on a bleeding
wound. It's just not going to happen.
It's not it's not it's not helping.
I'm getting progressively worse.
But it is helping the diplomats.
We don't know if they're attacked.
Stop because the reporting has been very obscure about it.
There are some diplomats, for example, Mark Lindsey, his family,
him and his family were attacked in China and then they were attacked in Philadelphia
when they came to for treatment at their residence and at the hotel.
Domestically, so overseas and domestically.
So there are single cases where the diplomats, the federal employees were
attacked both overseas and domestically.
The Cuban diplomats, the reporting is rather obscure, but
so your guess is as good as mine.
I don't know if they stopped or if they continue, but they're receiving some kind
of rehabilitation treatment.
Yeah, that would be an incredibly interesting question.
I don't have access to those people to find that out.
But imagine a knife wound stab wound and you keep turning the knife.
There's no way for the brain to heal.
There's no way for this psychological scarring from all the breakdown
scripts and torture to actually heal because it's continuous.
It's a slow kill weapon in a way.
But the important thing to recognize is that our government has publicly
acknowledged that this technology does exist and is being used outside of the
United States, at least they may not be recognizing it's they're recognizing
that it's real, right?
This is not a conspiracy theory.
This is a real weapon that our government has confirmed is being used by either
by adversaries or by us against other adversaries, right?
Correct.
They have not identified a weapon, but they have identified that it's a real thing
from directed energy, from directed energy.
Just we got to get to the point where they can recognize that it's being used
in the domestic or inside our country right now.
All right. How?
How it's been delivered, who's behind it, why they're doing it?
We all need to know if I'm a non-consensual experimental subject
for a newer weapon that that's been delivered, which is my really most plausible
hypothesis, because I don't see I don't see any foreign agents in Bloomingdale
in a way of driving the van.
I mean, obviously this is not this is not a guy driving doing a drive by holding
a satellite dish on us.
No, thank you guys very much for coming on here and talking about this.
I really appreciate it, Len and Duncan.
And again, thank you for having us.
And we want people to look up Havana syndrome.
And this is just the tip of the iceberg why we're on here and to ask your
politicians to, you know, and news agencies to look deeper into this.
And until people are fully aware what Havana syndrome is, they're not going to
understand the public's health issues that could occur.
It can happen to Len.
It can happen to anybody.
And so thank you again, Dan.
And where, Len, where can people find out more about you specifically and the talks
that you do and find more of your work?
And the same goes for you.
Oh, I'm on Twitter at P Sardonicus.
That's my best.
Can you spell that?
P S A R G O N I C U S.
OK, I'll link I'll put a link.
So if you like it, it's linked below and Duncan.
I have my popular book is Project Soulcatcher,
a secret cyber cybernetic warfare revealed.
It can be found on Amazon.
I personally adjust myself, my private page.
If you like my sense of humor or not, you're going to get it.
And that's just that Robert Duncan on Facebook and he'll recognize me.
But right now I'm restricted.
You know, how Facebook does that.
If you tell too much truth or they don't get your sense of humor.
All right, well, thank you guys both very much and sleep tight, everyone.
