Hello world. Today's guest on the podcast is Jamie Kennedy. Jamie is a hilarious comedian
and actor who's had a marathon of a career in Hollywood. He's been in films and TV shows
such as Romeo and Juliet, Malibu's Most Wanted, Boiler Room, Scream, the Jamie Kennedy experiment
and I'd be here all day if I had to keep going. On this episode we talk about Florida,
the evolution of media in Hollywood, what it's like balancing a Hollywood career with
comedy and social media and much, much more. This one is short but it's packed with gems.
Please welcome Jamie Kennedy.
Cracked in. Yeah, this is Cracked Town but we're not far from the beach. This doesn't
remind you of where you're from at all? Malibuzy. This is nothing like Malibuzy, huh? Malibuzy.
What could you relate? What is this town remind you of? You've been to a lot of different
towns around the country. It's cool but it's like you gotta like drive through the crack
to get to the water. You know what I mean? So you like got this dope setup that people
are looking at but they don't know that outside of here looks like it could be a potential
war zone. You know what I'm saying? Drug trafficking. Yeah. But it's dope, you know, and I never
met you and you're like, you're coming to this room and then I'm like, yo, this guy
looks kind of fit. Like, what do I gotta do? Like, I got my pen. Like, man, get him in
the neck. The other homie here and there's some dude in the Tesla. It's like, how many
can I take out? Do a joke. You know what I mean? But it's nice and once I got in here
and I know you got a good following, see, you'll go anywhere because the numbers, you
got good numbers. So I was like, I gotta come to the numbers of what brought you here. Dude,
I was, my assistant was setting this up and then they were like, well, we can try to do
this and you guys were a little hard to pin down. You guys hit me up. I hate it when people
do this. They hit me up and then they want me to accommodate them and it's like, what
the fuck? I gotta fire the guy that handles all that stuff. The booking. Oh, he was, he
fucks everything. Well, no, he was, I mean, no diss to him, but he was like, I, he can't
do it. And I was like, and then I know that you have a good following. So I was like,
fuck it. So I drove over the bridge, took a rowboat. I apologize, but no, he's a pain
in the ass. Appreciate you. No, no diss to him if you see in this, but Tyler, fuck you,
Tyler, you suck. But it was worse. It's not like it's about a skid row. I mean, some
people have a little skid row. Yeah, a lot of pods are in hell. In hell. This is, this
is nice. You got a nice setup here in 70s reminds me of the 70s. Yeah, that's what I was going
for. I was going, I was actually originally going for the look, you know, in the Sopranos
when he sits in there and talks to some psychiatrists, like their room. Yeah. Have you seen the Sopranos?
Like honestly, it's two apps. Isn't that crazy? Yeah. You know what's crazy, bro? I don't know
anything about you, but I know concrete media. Really? And I know you have a big following.
How do you know that? And you don't know? Because I see your clips get recommended to
me. Oh, really? Yeah. So you have like 450,000. Yeah. And I don't know who you are. And yet
you are now a destination that you got me, whatever I am. I'm like a main, you're a Hollywood
superstar. Well, I'm a mainstream name. But this is what the beautiful thing is of our world
right now. Guys like you can have this hub that's little, but it's not becoming very big. I did
this in Austin. There's another group over there called the drinking bros. They're blowing up. And
it's like every city has it. So it's like media is completely disrupted forever. It's dope. Yeah,
it is super weird, right? Like I would have never, some little kid in the crackhead town would
never have the chance to talk to or interview a guy of your caliber. Stop. And you came here. You
came here to talk to me. I came to you. I got my Dunkin and listed a drive and you saw my Uber
driver. She was fine, right? Oh, she's super hot. Shout out to her. Driving the Malibu,
the Black Malibu. Came in the Malibisi. But honestly, it was the numbers. And then BT at the
club was like, yeah, I mean, I got big, got big filing. BT blew you up. Like, in fact, two other
people in Florida told me about you. Really? Yeah. Wow. Your name rings bell lubing me up right
now. You're making me feel good. Juicy. Lovin it. Lovin it. How um, so you're here on like a,
are you on tour right now doing comedy or what? Oh yeah. I mean, we fucking were doing comedy and
parks and top of parking lots and forest and LA, like every comic you see on Netflix was like
playing a bush. And we were of a different experience. And real quick, if he keep an eye out
for him, cause he might come in later. And then the world slowly opened up and people started
making me offers. And I was like, I want to go inside. And then I saw like one comedian going
inside and they're like, check the filtration systems. And then the club here is incredible.
Side splitters is incredible. It's like BT who owns and put, he put these lights dude in the AC.
So it's like those, those are inference. Oh, the ones that Trump was talking about.
But they do. He's got mad air conditioning, people spread out, but still packed and these
lights. So it's like everyone's getting a wash of black light. It's no, it's like a UVA light.
So he's like so on it. And it's like, boom, and then we do a meet and greet outside everyone,
six feet, buys a package, takes a picture, takes the mask, walks away. Like it was smooth as silk.
So yeah, man. So I got a, I mean, I'm booked until the middle of October. We'll see before the world
shuts down. I just started June 1st. Yeah. We're not shutting down Florida. The rest of the world
will shut down. The world will be shut down and Florida will still be slanging.
The Santa Claus shut us down. Shout out taco bus.
Yo, it closed at midnight, bro. I usually go there at 3am and get my crack taco.
That is weird. They closed at midnight in Tampa. Yeah, bro. It's weird. Like the next thing you
know, Mons Venus is going to be closing at like 1am. Like what's going on? Oh, he was the last guy
I had in here. Not Mons Venus. The guy who owns Mons Venus. Wow. Yeah. I bet he's sitting on some cake.
Yeah, he is, man. He's crazy, crazy old man, crazy old, old guy. Got the spaceship. Pony tile.
No, no, no, no. He doesn't know. No, that spaceship room. That's Mons Venus. That's not Mons Venus.
That's uh, that's uh, oh, 2001. 2001. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That's 2001. Mons is right across the street.
Mons is like this little tiny hole in the wall, right across the street. You don't even really
see it right next to the Taco Bell. But none of the women there have like bullet holes. No,
there's no bullet holes. Yeah. The women there. All the women that go to the strip clubs in Tampa,
they all come from all over Florida. It's uh, you know, they drive like three hours to go to work
because they get, they make so much money there. Yeah. It's the strip club is here. This is uh,
kind of like the, the uh, how can I say this? Uh, it's the typo blood of strip, meaning that like
typo blood is they say the caviar of blood. It's like, you can't take anyone's blood,
but you can give your blood to anyone. I know that's what we referenced, but I was talking to
a doctor earlier about all this shit and COVID and basically it's just strippers here are that.
It's like a very high end industry here. It is. It is like, this is like the capital. I love how
you keep wiping that thing down. It's PTSD. Everybody that comes from Los Angeles is very
paranoid about the, the cleanliness. It's dumb. It's a funny thing. I know. It's not me. It's just
PTSD. It's media. Oh, it's PTSD from the media. Yeah, for real, bro. Like it's like the virus is
everywhere, but it's like not. And then it's like you come to Florida and everyone's like chilling,
eating a taco, riding a beach cruiser, no drama. I've had no drama so far. Really? I've had pack
shows, no drama, no fights, and I see a lot of people wearing masks. Yeah. A lot of people
wear masks, but a lot of people don't like to follow the mask rules, but I don't see like
any people out there with signs doing shit. None of that. No. So it's like, it's what I'm saying is
a little bit of, and then your numbers were bumped up three times more than what they were.
Did you read that? The CDC lied and said 28,000 people had the case, but it was only half of
that. So it was about 15,000. When did that? When did that come out? Two days ago. Really? So it was
like people are like trying to make Florida look like, you know, Florida man. Yeah, they were.
They always try to do that to us. Yeah, they fuck you. Those bastards, those bastards. I feel
like I'm interviewing you. When's the interview going to start? Sorry. This is how it always goes.
That's why you don't know who I am. I know. That's why I don't know him because I'm a shitty
interviewer. I just do this. I get people like you on here. No, we talk, we open up. Yeah. Yeah,
exactly. You know, I just watched your podcast, your four hour podcast with Bert. Oh, really? Yeah.
How? Just now to prepare for this? I just watched it in the last like 48 hours. It took me on and
off. I just watched it. It was great. It wasn't even like a podcast. Like you guys were just
sitting there on the couch, getting drunk and talking shit. It was hilarious. Dude,
Bert is the man. He is, he's Florida royalty, isn't he? I just, I learned on that podcast
that he's from Tampa. I had no idea he was. He's actually from Tampa. Wow. That's what he said
on the podcast. Yeah, Bert is, Bert is like one of the greatest. And yeah, I did like a four hour
pod with him. Like he's, he has so much fun. It's like you guys forgot you were even doing a pod.
100%. That's what he does. He's sitting on a couch. And I'm like, oh, is this camera? Yeah,
it was incredible. He's awesome. Is he, is he in LA also? Close to you? I think, uh, yeah,
he's not far. I think he's over, uh, he might be in the, he's in the valley and I'm over in the hill
and more close Hollywood. Okay. But yeah, he's got it dope set up. Now you have a podcast, right?
Yeah. When did you start it? Uh, I kind of started it in 2017 and it was like, it was called Hate
to Break It to You. And it was a way for me to start talking to like, to my fans, another
version of me. You know what I mean? Cause it's like people know me from movies and stuff, but
like people who know me know me, you know what I mean? But it's like a pod. It's like, you keep it
real. And then I was doing it a little bit and it was a lot of work and then I was getting so busy
and I was doing like different movie or TV show and I was hard to do, you know? Yeah. Then I had
the right producers and then when the pandemic hit, I was like, I'm really going to do it. So
then I just buckled down and now I'm like into it. So I try to put out an episode every week,
every two weeks, but I do solos, which are easier. The solos though. I feel like that's harder.
No, I have a lot to say and I have takes on stuff, but and sometimes you get a guest and they just
don't, it's like, you know, people really want to, I have a lot of opinions. So people like that.
Yeah. But a good guest, like I have a guest on today that's going to be great because
he's my buddy who's a young, he's a young stud, but he's a nurse. He's a nurse in the, I don't
even want to say it because I want to get you demonetized in the Seaword. Do you know what?
I'm serious. So that's what's crazy. We can't even talk about you, but so he's Seaword. Yeah,
think about it. What the hell is that? You know, Ms. Rowna. So, you know what I mean? I'm trying not
to get you deed. That's okay. I get deed all the time. You know what I'm saying? So and he's
telling all the stuff because I put all types of information on my Instagram. So I'm funny,
so I'm not and people got all booty tickled. So I got a nurse, my buddy, who's like a young kid
like you, who's like on the front lines. And so it's pretty, so I like people like that who are
like an expert in a field I know nothing about. Yeah. That's, that's pretty much the only type
of podcast I do. I don't really have many, there's not really much going on in my mind.
You're being humble. My mind is, my brain is just kind of like always been soft serve,
you know what I mean? I'm not very, I'm not very sharp. So like I need people like you to carry
the show. You're being humble. Are you a surfer? Yeah, I can tell that. How could you tell that?
Because you got kind of like the bill, but you're like being super humble, but you're like
totally assessing the situation, getting me to split my butt, getting the clips out of me. I like
your, I like it. I like your perspective. You're a smart guy. Well, what, so the, you say that you
have like opinions and you're able to like talk by yourself and and get a lot of your ideas out
solo. It's kind of like Bill Burr. He's like the best at that, right? He's the best. Yeah. Is that
come from, from a lot of writing? Is that how that, did that, was that something that you developed
or is that something that you were just naturally always good at? No, I think that we're just,
that's why I'm in comedy because it's like you have always takes on things and they're like
brewing inside of you and they're going nuts. And you're like, I gotta like, I gotta like
expunge this. So that's why you go on stage, you know? And so you start doing it. And I've had
success in a lot of other areas in life, but I'm still drawn to the stage. And it's like,
it's a way to like feel heard and share your opinions and get like, like minded individuals.
And be like, yo, you feeling what I'm feeling? So it's just, it's something that it's like,
you look at something, it gives you your, it leaves an impression on you. And then you
talk about it, you regurgitate it. I feel like being that kind of person that's not good for
Hollywood though, right? Because you have an opinions on everything is not really good for,
you don't want to piss off the establishment. Yeah, that's a very good point. I think that
the establishment is getting disrupted though, by, like I said, there's like guys like you,
new media, and I think people are just starting to look at the establishment, see all the cracks,
see all the bullshit, see all the stuff that they're feeding us and being like, is this,
do we want this? You know what I mean? It's like, it's people making this shit from behind this wall
and this mountain and it's like, yeah, it's cool. But like, I want to hear like the realness. I want
to hear a voice from someone else. And so you're definitely right. But I think that's all cracking.
Has it made an impact at all on that part of your career? Because obviously that's like the
foundation. That's where you, did you, you started acting or did you start in comedy?
I started both, you know, in 1990, but I really got more successful as an actor. But like I was
making inroads, inroads, inroads into comedy in LA, but I wasn't really getting no for it. And then,
but by getting little comedy gigs, agents would see me or producers would see me, they bring
me and I would read and that's how I started getting early acting jobs and that, you know,
commercials and stuff, but definitely more as an actor. But I've been doing comedy, you know,
my whole career. Since you started doing like podcasts and broadcasting this kind of like raw
unfiltered shit and giving your opinions on shit like that, has that affected your acting career
at all? Or has it like, do you have agents and producers talking to you? Like, don't say this,
don't say that. Like, is that real? It's so fucking real. I don't think it,
it hasn't affected me yet. There's definitely, I definitely have a representative. I'm not going
to call them out who definitely told me like, yo, go easy on saying certain stuff. You know,
you just might want to lay low, which I was like, I just kind of let it slide. But I'm like, do you
know who you represent? You know what I mean? Like, and this is what we do. We don't like curtail
like an artist. Would you tell like fucking Johnny Rotten go easy on the, you know, slicing
yourself with a razor blade? No, it's Johnny Rotten, you know, I'm not saying I'm doing that,
but it's like, yeah, so that was a great example of this typical like, make money, don't rock the
boat, always try to get the bag to like have an opinions to rocking the boat. But there's a new
bag out there. That's what I'm saying. All this disruptive media is making a new bag because
there's an audience really want the new bag. They're sick of the bullshit. I hate to say that,
but like the woke, the waking up, the real wokeness is the people waking up to all the bullshit.
That's my opinion. Do you think that there's people out there like, because you were just in
a movie with, what was the latest movie? Did Brad Pitt one, the BP? That one, I did that one, but
then I got cut out. Fuck. What do you mean you got, oh, they cut you out when they were editing?
Yeah, I had three good teens, but they're really good. But hopefully, I heard if it goes to
criterion collection, then they, I'll be in there. You know what that is? That's like when the movie
is like putting its own thing in the longer form. So that would be dope. But I thought they're going
to make you the dad. You should have been the dad, not really, John. BP's dad. BP's dad in the movie,
the guy in the spaceship. But I did another movie, which you talk about, which you don't know if
you're talking about, but I did this movie called Roe v Wade and that pissed a lot of people off.
And that was just a movie about abortion. And that pissed off a lot of people. And a lot of
Hollywood press wrote about it and started saying all the stuff. And it was like, yo, I'm just an
actor. So that was, that came out over the pandemic, like March. And it came like to like all these
streaming services. But it was like considered like a more of a right wing movie. But it's
really not. I'm just an actor. I'm not right wing. I'm not left wing. I'm just the dude.
But they were people were mad that I did that. But so far, it really hasn't fucked me up.
What was it? What was it about? Abortion. Very.
The take on it was like, you shouldn't abort. Well, the take was a little bit more like,
hey, abortions is a little bit more dicey than people say. There's a little bit of money being
made. There's an agenda there. And a lot of people didn't like that. They thought they were messing
with their rights and got a lot of people upset. And you know, it's like, then people were asking
my opinions. And I'm like, I'm just an actor. And then it's like, you know, well, you're being
irresponsible acting in it. And I'm like, you know, it was a good role. So that's a longer
conversation. But basically in a nutshell, that's what you should do. You should make movies about
things that cause conversation. And that's what it did, even if it was uncomfortable.
I mean, I like escapism too. But yeah, well, the crazy thing about it is like,
like what you're talking about, they got mad at you or like the establishment will get mad at
you for doing certain types of things or having certain types of opinions or whatever it may be.
But it's like coming full circle with YouTube too, because now everyone's in the media right now
talking about how YouTube demonetizes people and it make they make conversations that like
that they don't think it could be like an accredited like you were talking about, like
your buddy who you're going to interview today, the guy who's a nurse, they will probably demonetize
it if he talks about COVID or has any kind of opinions on it and they make it ununprofitable
to talk about that kind of shit. Don't you think that's weird? I mean, yeah, of course,
it's fucking crazy. It's scary as shit. But it's like coming full circle. It's like now
YouTube is you can't talk about certain things or else you get de-platformed or demonetized.
I know. So what does I tell you? That tells you you got to join. What's his name? Glenn Greenwald's
Rumble website. I just saw that. I just saw that too. Kind of kind of dope. But then they're
going to call you like a right winger, right? I guess probably he was on, I saw that he tweeted
about it. Who is Glenn Greenwald? He's like, he's a gay political guy. He started, he started some
media platform a long time ago. And then you get addressed that there's like two little levers on
the left side. Just pull it down. What do you want to go down? Yeah. So there's a back left one.
Pull it up. I did. Didn't go down. Oh, there you go. That was a way to describe that. You're
going to get so much shit. He's a gay political guy. He's a gay political guy, but he's got a lot
of really good takes. Like he's obviously, he's obviously he's very, he's a left wing guy, but
he just like shits on like hypocrisy, hypocrisy of left wing politics and all the corrupt people
in there and how like, you know, he talks a lot about like the, the deep platformization of people
and like, and like the freedom of the press and how they're like trying to, you know, put Julian
Assange, Julian Assange, however you say his name in prison for life, even though he's overseas and
like turning journalists, you know, into basically trying to incarcerate journalists for talking about
whatever they want to talk about. Yeah. And he just, you know, lately, I've just noticed he's
been pointing out a lot of the hypocrisy and that kind of stuff. And he's actually pretty cool
because he's, he's just this like gay left wing guy, but he's going on all of these right wing
shows like Tucker Carlson and the Democratic people hate him for that. Oh wow. Why would you go and
talk about, you know, on this guy's show? Because he's keeping an open mind. He is keeping an open
mind. That's why I like the guy. He's like, he's very smart. And he started rumble. He started,
I don't know if he started rumble. I learned about him through the guy, Tim Dillon. Yeah. I
learned he was on his show. Okay. So that's how I found out who he was. And then he's just been
pushing this rumble thing. And maybe it probably is his. I gotta go, dude, but think about this.
Look how insane this is that you can't talk about certain stuff. Like I get it. Like it's like
that you're being demonetized. What does that tell you? Like YouTube used to be like the freest,
craziest shit. The fact that they are like, that just shows you that's like, if something is,
if there was no, I call fuckery, charcuterie, because you know, I try to use code word.
If there was no charcuterie there, you would be fine. It's not like you're saying, if you're just
going saying something against what a bigger message is being pushed as, that's weird. And
that's what I'm saying. And then when you comment on it, people are like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
It's like you're being controlled. Like if you can't have an opposing opinion,
which based in some type of reality, then we're in trouble. And I just feel like that's what's
weird, bro. Like big tech is now, I don't believe that. Yeah. But they're like, and they're pushing
the same narrative as like, let's just say CNN. And I'm not saying CNN all has bad stuff. It has
some cool stuff, but it's definitely a biased thing. Just like, obviously Fox is biased,
but Fox is like the dark star and CNN is like considered Luke. You know what I mean? But
are they? Yeah. And it's, I mean, as everyone is, it's all everyone talks about now is like,
everybody knows that Fox and CNN are these two completely polar opposite things that just push
headlines for views. And I think those shows, but the shows don't aren't very successful. They get
those daytime or nighttime segments they have on those shows get way less viewership than your
average podcast gets. Yeah, totally. Like then your episode with Bert probably got twice as many
views as any episode of Tucker Carlson gets. That's crazy. That's crazy. That's nuts. But yeah,
but pods are super like, you know, informative and people are just going in and they get it's
free form speech. You get to say what you want. Have a seat, Mike. Oh, what's up, dude?
This is my friend and client, Mike. What's up, Mike? He's going to join us. How you doing?
You jumped in late. We're talking about, uh, we're talking about what happened, Mike. What were
you at? Yeah, where were you? Your flight was late. Your flight was late. You were in the car,
dude. He was in the Tesla. Well, now you've blown my cover. Yeah. All right, Mike, you're not coughing
everything. There are only three of us who knew that. He's worried about, don't cough because
he's worried about you. I've got my card. Oh, he's got his card. Can you show it to him?
That's all right. You can buy those until you want them. That's all I'll need to see it. I got
you. The thing is, I haven't been to Tijuana. He could be shedding. And if you have your card,
you can still spread it, Mike. Spread her. Do you want to put my mask on? No, you're fine. You're
fine, Mike. I have my Darth Vader mask. You're fine. I have a hockey mask. It won't protect
germs, but if you throw something at me, it will be, we're good. He was worried about coming
here because he called this town Cracktown. And then he felt better once he got into the studio
because it's a decent location. Nice. It was like I was walking around. I was a little paranoid.
Really? Yeah, I don't be paranoid. You're good. He pulled up in the car with the door open. He
was driving down the street with the back. You were driving on the back door open.
Ghost ride the whip. What were you ready to do? Jump out? I was ready to just,
you never know when you have to jam out. I was about to run out and I'm like,
all right, just go to, because I need her to go to Walgreens and I'm like, I'll just run out.
And then she's like, oh, he's over here. So she flipped a B. And I was like,
remember, you liked it though. Gluckman's down with the bitches in the hose. The bitches in the
hose. My daughter and I watched that movie, you know, probably conservatively 20 times.
No, you tell me any part of that movie. And if you can stump me, I'll give you,
you're watching. You're watching. All right, ready, Mike? Okay. Shrink, shrink, blinkety blink.
Shrink, blinkety blink. Shrink, uh, shrink, blink, blink, shrink, shrink, blinkety blink.
Yeah, but it's about the, the, when you want to try to make me think. Can you finish it, Ryan?
Yeah. Try to make me think. Gotta go to the sink. And vomit. Clean it up with calming.
Yo, Earth is my planet. Yeah. He's my planet. Planet. Because I had to make it rhyme.
Mike, appreciate it. Mike's a big, Mike's a huge fan.
Huge fan. Keep throwing him at me. Keep throwing it. Funniest movie ever.
Appreciate it. I think it's aging well too, right? Yeah, it is. It is. And do you,
do you ever, is that your most well known?
That scream, Jamie Kenney experiment for the super comedy heads, Ghost Whisperer for the
Midwest mommies. Those are like the four that really hit. I mean, then there's like movies
like Enemy of the State and different movies that like people, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
but yeah, I would say Malibu's on there. And that one, and that one you were 75% of the movie.
So, I mean, it's your, you know, I mean, that was my baby. Yeah, that was, that was, you
didn't have a part in it. He was. The other people had fractional parts. Yeah. The movie was,
it was B-rated. That's what I was trying to do, you know, trying to be that character. Up in the
bizzoo. What was the deal with, how did that, what was the deal with that movie? How did it come
about? Like what was like, how did they approach you with it? Was it your name? No, so it was like
at that time, a lot of late 90s, you know, white boy want to be gangsters. That was like a big
affliction that now is accepted. But at the time it was a new strain of
an affliction. People were like, what is this? And there's a couple of movies that like I went
in for and I didn't get, but I always had that character, you know, and I did stand up like I
was saying and I was making my stand up was basically just trying characters and then
getting it going. And then I did the show, the Jamie King experiment, which is a whole other
ball of acts. And then the character got very popular. So I had a script for it, you know,
kind of like Mike Myers was one of my heroes and making characters in the movies. And then I
bought the Warner Brothers and my show was at Warner Brothers. So they were like, oh, this is
interesting. And so, you know, we developed it and boom, you know, we did it for a low budget.
You know, then they got the great cast and boom, we were off to the races when it was incredible.
Do you still, like to this day, if you're in public in Australia, it calls you B-rad?
People say, people look at me now and they say, are you B-Rab's
kidnapper? Well, the reason the reason I ask is, but they do, they'll roll up on me and say some
shrinks. Blinkety blink, try to make me think. Sometimes, I've been friends with
Meyer Lopez for years and one time out in Vegas is probably 15 years ago. You're going to drop a
jewel. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. But just by chance, we're at the hard rock
because on New Year's Eve, we used to go every New Year's Eve and we're playing exactly.
But playing Blackjack and I was in the Darius Rocker on one side and Mario on the other side
and everybody was calling him Hootie and Mario Slater and both of them just annoyed the shit out
of both of them. Wait, these guys are going to be playing on a public table on the floor?
I never said that. Can we rewind the tape? No, it had to be public because they had a
private table. No one would say that. So they were getting annoyed. Yeah, it happens. Sometimes,
it just depends. Darius and Mario are just normal people. They just happen to be famous.
Myself, I'm very fortunate, but there are days when you just want to play Blackjack and you
don't want someone come up to you going, what's up, Slater? No, no, no. I know. I know. It took
him a long time. Yeah, but you kind of got to be ready for it if you're at a public table.
100%. You got to be, you have to go in with your best foot forward. And the problem is that we
can't make mistakes. If we do, then we're POSs. And it's like, yo, I might have gas. I might have
had a bad bowl of oatmeal. My girlfriend might holler at me. I might have just lost money
in the stock market. You don't know what's going on. And it's like, you know, and it's like,
so, you, you know, that's what it is. But as an artist, as an artist, when you,
you did something that put you on the map, 100%, I'm very fortunate. And then you've done so many
things that are, that are so much better, so much better. I mean, you've grown as an artist. Yeah.
And everyone still wants to bring you back to that. Yeah. Well, no, I, that to me is very high
art. Malibu's is very high art. It's pop art. It's, it, it doesn't take itself seriously,
but just a lot of messages in it. It's aging very nicely. Got the biggest booties in the stable.
Yeah, it's got the biggest booties. But it really has to do with cultural appropriation,
which is a big topic now, but also cultural appropriation and appreciation. And that's
what the movie's about. What's, where's appropriation? What's appreciation? And for me,
it was based on my love of hip hop. You know what I mean? Just because I'm a white dude,
doesn't mean I can't love it and can't rap to it, but that's what I love. I grew up on two,
you know, Led Zeppelin and then somebody gave me hip hop and I was like, oh,
shit. So I love Led Zeppelin, but I also really love hip hop. So it hit me at a young age. Well,
you can be diverse, you know. Yeah. But it wasn't like that. As you know, in the early eighties,
it was like hip hop was like, you know, more like inner city and Led Zeppelin was more like suburban
kids. Right. And I was always like, kept my foot really in both. But when it comes to those mixing
of cultures and different, you know, musics and that sort of thing, I don't think anything is more,
is more just validated than Kurt Cobain and Irana were the big hair bands. I mean, when that
Grunge music came out of Seattle, I mean, you know, Van Halen and Motley Crue and all of them went,
oh, geez, we're fucked. Because Grunge was so intense. Yeah. But it was like a light switch.
It was like a light switch. Well, yeah. I mean, Van Halen's different. I think they're a much deeper
band. Yeah. And they're so interesting. But I think some of the hair bands that were more fluffy
realized how deep Kurt was. Kurt's like a super, you know, generational artist. Yeah. He's like
John Lennon. Yeah. So you're saying that just completely, I remember that. You're right. It
shut down that whole like fluffy and became like as raw as it can be. Oh, yeah. As great as Motley
Crue was. Yeah, I love Motley Crue. In other bands, for that matter, they're, you know,
you're just saying he was so deep. There's so much pathos. Yeah. The unfortunate thing really is that
he has such great music. And in my personal opinion, it was so great because he's a really
troubled soul. Yeah. And, you know, he wrote, he did some great stuff that, you know, I would never
want to be in his place. Did you ever see the HBO documentary about him? I've seen like, there's
multiple ones. There was one with the drawing. They took his book of writings and stuff and
they like put animation to it. It's insane. He's incredible. Yeah. He seemed like a very,
very troubled guy. It seems like some of like the most successful artists in anything in any form
are like the most deeply troubled, a drug addicted. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. And Janis Joplin and
Jim Morrison and 27 Club. Yeah. I think you, you know what? I mean, it doesn't mean you, look,
it doesn't mean you can't grow up in a nice life and not create something great, but usually
troubled people channel that pain and this usually is something really amazing, you know,
Amy Winehouse. Amazing. Right. So it's, you know, it's there again. Yeah. I know. I know. It's
intense, but like circumstances and the outcome. Yeah. It's unfortunate. It's so unfortunate,
but it's like, you know, Roseanne. Yeah. She's still here. Roseanne. She's still here. You can
just go, I'll take it. She's still here. But, but yeah, it's unfortunate. And even, you know,
even, you know, many artists that are still around and say they write their best music that, you
know, they, they're not creative in less, you know, unless they're depressed and, you know,
it's a way to cope. Yeah. It's, you know, just the music, the lyrics that just pours out of them.
Yeah. You know, when they're, you know, yeah, everyone has good days and bad days. Yeah. They're
not, you know, they'll say that, you know, their, their best writing or any of their writing usually
doesn't come on the good day. Yeah. It comes on the depressed day, you know, curtains closed,
haven't left the house for two days. Yeah. And then when they emerge, it's, they emerge with
just genius. Yeah. You know what? I love talking about podcasts about people. I hate that because
I'm still in Hollywood. So let's avoid all that. We just popped all your tires, didn't we?
Mike came in and we started talking about it. Can you go back to whatever you were doing?
Oh, I got one I want to talk about. Hey, he brought up the Marilyn Manson thing.
I'm just saying, you know, most, you know, great music, not mo, a lot of great music and they'll
tell you, it's, you know, it's when I'm in my dark, my darkest hour, I, these, these words just flow
out of me. Yeah. Totally. Yeah. Mike, what do you do? I actually own a chain of hearing centers.
Oh, a hearing center. Okay. Fits people with hearing losses. We do automatic testing.
You're like a, you have a, you like helping, helping society. It's automobile hearing age.
It's, it's literally the only thing I've ever done. Wow. I started in this industry when I was
21 and I'm still doing it. It's awesome. So he goes to like Africa and he'll fit
like thousands of kids with hearing aids. Yeah. A lot of people give a, a dollar,
but they won't give an hour, you know? Yeah. Um, so, uh, you know, some of the places
you don't want to be in, um, yeah, a little scary, but, uh, but, um, but, you know,
you know, prior to the pandemic, you know, I was probably doing five missions a year between
one week and three weeks. So you're a missionary. Um, well, I'm an entrepreneur, but, uh, but, um,
go to like Botswana and stuff like that. I've been to Africa twice, all around the place.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Um, uh, Honduras, Mexico, I have no idea how many times,
tons of times, um, Peru, um, just any place where it's, you know, just in
progress and people wouldn't get help otherwise. Yeah. You know, beautiful. Yeah. So, um, how's
your hearing? This isn't about me. It's about you. No. That's real. That's beautiful. That's a
real story though. Uh, my hearing is okay that I know of Jesus. Good. I hear that every day.
Yeah. Come on. Let me fit you. Checked out, bro. Yeah. Gotta get checked out. Don't let
that ring in your ears. Get too loud. That's the aliens. You know, I wanted, I wanted to ask
you, speaking of talking about people in Hollywood, do you still talk to Nick Swartzson? Oh yeah.
Nick Swartzson, I mean, he's one of the funniest motherfuckers. He was like one of my,
like the first comedians I was ever exposed to as like a young. A day in the life of was the first
time I ever saw it. The cocaine thing? Oh my God. The day in the life of, and
there was this probably 15 years ago that I wrote. Yeah. I like, it's the funniest damn thing I've
ever seen at the time. He's the greatest. He, he helped, you know, he was like the guy that really
helped push Malibu and he wrote it and, you know, and then like, I didn't know that. Yeah. He wrote
a lot of it. Yeah. He would, he, he would, uh, I would like riff the character and then he'd go
and he would write 10 pages. It's just absolute brilliance and he'd bring it back to me and I
was like, Oh my God. Then I'd like, he'd write 10 more. So he really helped that movie become what
it is. He, he was the genesis of it. Yeah. So Nick's my boy. I love him. I think he's down here
right now. Is he really? I think he's somewhere in Florida right now. I gotta get his house on this.
Yeah, you gotta hit him up and get him out of here. You gotta hit him up. Holy shit. Well, he,
he doesn't know how to hit him up, but you do. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sure, I'm sure he
wanted to give me his number. He is, he is, he is brilliant. There's no doubt about it. The best.
No doubt about it. Like one of the funniest people you'll ever meet. Yeah. Like, I, he,
you'll just sit with him and you think you know him. I've sat with him 50 times. Every time I'll
find something new and I'll just cry. Like he'll always just make you laugh. Like he's, I mean,
I love him. I used to, I used to fucking just love scrolling through his Twitter feed and
listen to all this shit talk he would do. He's talked so much, he loves football. Like he talks
so much shit about football. So fucking funny. Does he have a podcast? I don't, I don't know. I
don't think so. I'm sure. You know? No, I don't think he does. I don't think he does. Hmm. You
gotta hit him up, bro. He'd be perfect for this. Yeah. It was always like, like him, like you, Nick,
and dirt nasty were always kind of like Simon. Simon. Yeah. You guys were always kind of like,
like owned that niche. You know what I mean? That, that comedy acting niche, like comedy rapper
slash actor. Yeah. Kind of niche in LA. Yeah. There's a few of us, you know what I mean? That had
that kind of like that vibe of, I don't know. Cut from the same mold. Yeah. You know what I mean?
It's like, we're like hip hop, hip hop, hip hop inspired comedy, you know, with a little bit of,
you know, of a twist, you know, but like Simon's also brilliant. Like hilarious. His raps are dope.
You know what I mean? That's funny because his raps are funny, but they're really dope. Like they
got great beats and there's hooks and his style, like dirt nasty. Like as soon as he comes on, you
know, you know, his, it's him. So he's got a signature sound. And I think that, you know,
sometime, I think it's probably, you know, he's got a lot more music in him.
And I think you probably want to make it. That's another interesting thing you guys were talking
about with Burt, where you're just like, you guys are like these comedic rappers, but you guys are
like, you're teetering on the edge of being like legitimate, like successful hip hop artists and
comedians. Well, it's like, yeah, it's my buddy Stu, who's also, Stu's a really good rapper.
So it's like, he got these, he got people, right? So it's like,
kind of like for white dudes, the way in the hip hop was, was funny. You know what I mean?
Yeah. It's first people to take you serious. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like say we want,
like, you know, one of the best ever to do at Eminem, you know, his, his first rhymes are so
insanely amazing. Sick. But they're funny. Like he's, he's, he's a sick lyricist, but
there's a lot of comedy there. Like Eminem is hilarious, you know, and he's also very deep,
very dark, you know, like intense, but his for, foray into hip hop was, you know,
hi, my name is, which is like dope, but sick, but hilarious. And I think that that's what
kind of, that's what like the BC boys initially were funny. Me and Stu, like my buddy Stu is a
dope rapper, really good. He was an actor, he's been in a ton of stuff. He was a care bear,
as a kid. He was Johnny Darko, like he's been a lot of stuff. And he just wrapped on the side
in garage band. And I like, one day I heard him, I'm like, yo, this shit, he wraps so good about
a porn star, the porn star heard it and he started dating her. Like that was like, yeah,
because he started dating him because you love his, do you have a pencil? He started rapping so
much. And so like his, so I was a fan of his raps. And I'm like, yo, I'm going to produce your rap.
So I gave him like 20 grand to like do his album and he did it, but couldn't get it going. You know,
this was before like SoundCloud. And I'm like, yo, I'm doing this movie, like you got to help me.
So he wrote my rhymes, but not really from Malibu, but then he started writing all these other
rhymes. So I wanted to put out a comedy rap album called Crap. No, but like that's what comedy
and rap, but like before, like the Lonely Island is also really funny. But the Lonely Island is dope
too. Like they're good rappers. So I think that that's what we do. We go in with a funny way.
And then, but no one can accept it. Now there's artists that can,
one minute they're acting, the next minute they're cooking, the next minute they're writing a book
and they're like accepted. But for a while people were in, like they couldn't take you outside of
your hole, you know, your pigeonhole. And so I think now it's easier to be a cross-platform
artist. But yeah, like you could, the key to it is a good beat. And then like keeping the
shit hard. But for me, you couldn't be hard right away. It had to be funny. But if you listen
to my album with Stu, there's some bangers in there. Lowkey. Hell yeah. Lowkey. Lowkey bangers.
You know what I mean? Might you know what lowkey bangers are? You know what lowkey banger is Mike?
Lowkey on the high note. Maybe you missed the part where I said I fit hearing aids. No.
Lowkey on the high note means that it's like, yo, it's like,
it's like, how can I say it? Like, yo, this taco's lowkey fire. So how would you say what that is?
Turn it off. It's fucking keeps vibrating. Fuck, dude. Lowkey means just like a lot of people
don't know about it. Like it's underrated and it's really fucking good. It's like
Taco Bus has got a lowkey fire chorizo taco that you don't know about. It's like it's good.
But it's like on the menu, lowkey is kind of hidden. Right. It's like not the main,
not the most popular thing. Okay. But it's not mainstream. It could be the best. It's not mainstream.
Like a lot of Florida rappers are came up. Yeah. Yeah. Like that. Like,
have you heard of Rod Wave? No. Okay. Never mind. But that's all right. He's like that. He's like
one of the top five billboard hip hop artists. He's got like one of the, he's been in like top
five billboard for like the past year and a half to two years and he came, he literally was born
and raised 10 minutes from here in like the ghetto of St. Pete. Wow. And it's weird that St. Pete has
a ghetto. Oh, dude, it gets, it gets rough in St. Pete downtown or like south side St. Pete.
Not like stabbing stuff. Oh yeah. Stabbing and shootings every week, probably. I mean, it's not
as bad as like some other towns. It's not as bad as Chicago, but it's still pretty bad.
Yo, like low key, like trying to think like Chick-fil-A. Man, that's high key now.
Trying to think like food, anything. Like yo, like that.
Have you had the Popeye chicken sandwich? That's low key fire. It's high. Meaning
key fire. Meaning kind of, it's about, and then it'll just go high key. He's like, yo, it's just
high key. Yeah. High key on the high note. High key on the high note. Yeah. Yeah. That's what
he's sold out. It's done. Yeah. You're sold out. You've already hit your court. You already, you've
already, uh, you're like, I'm not going to lie. Like you could come off stage ago that gig was low
key fire. Right. And you didn't expect it to be that good because it was like, I played, I played
as like a tree house in LA. I'm not kidding. I was telling them we were playing all these places
outside and some dude has got this dope setup. You would love it. Well, like tables and bushes,
but like high up, he built like straight up during the pandemic, built like tree houses,
not crazy extravagant, but dope. So there's a table up there. Really? This dude's
crib in Los Feliz. Not far from me by Griffith Park. Ever heard of Griffith Park?
And you have. And so you go there and you'll do a show and they'll be like 60 people. And there's
like little booths and shit. And it's now it's high-key fire, meaning it's like mainstream. Yeah,
because it's in the back of this dude's house and it was like one of the hottest clubs. It's in the
back of his house. He built it in the back of his house. That's sick. He just parked on the street.
You park on the street. That's hilarious. And it's high-key fire. That's hilarious. Yeah. So
it's like, that's what people do. The one of the greatest things about the pandemic is brought
the entrepreneurs out. So many cool, interesting, inventive people, shows, or, you know, podcasts
blew up. So there's always moves to be made. Something's good or bad. Always moves, right?
Yeah. Like Churchill said, never let a, you know, you know, a, you know, a problem go to waste. Never
let a, you know, never let, never let, you know,
Can you find the Churchill quote he's talking about?
Yeah. It's, it's, never let a crisis go to waste.
Is that what you said?
Never let a crisis go to waste.
That's a good quote.
I think it took me longer to say that than Churchill moved.
Jesus Christ, why?
Low-key. I was waiting for somebody to hike. You mentioned that.
Never, never let a good crisis go to waste.
Speaking of low-key fire, bro, some of the best podcasts that I've done have been low-key
fire. Like the most fire podcast, they're always low-key.
Yeah.
They're not like the most popular ones with the most views.
Yeah.
It's weird. It's like the shit that pops off on YouTube more than anything else
is not always the best stuff. Like the best content that I've done
is not always been the most popular. I'm sure you feel that way with like movies and
different shows that you've done or specials that you've done.
I did a movie called Buddy Hutchins and it's on Amazon Prime and it was a little movie
and I play a guy that's kind of like, you ever see the movie Falling Down?
He did. You didn't. You should see it, but you might catch it.
So it's basically kind of what's happening now.
It's like about a white middle-aged man who like can't deal with society anymore.
Yeah, just.
It's like the original like,
Just give it up, man.
Get off my lawn type of dude. And it's Michael Douglas.
It's brilliant.
Yeah, it's great.
Brilliant movie.
Where's Michael's glasses?
He looks totally different.
Really?
And it's basically just like a guy just having a bad day to progressively worse.
And it's just like.
Which turns into a bad week and a bad month.
So I did like a low-budget version of that called Buddy Hutchins and it's just this guy.
He's at his wit's end and he ends up doing horrible things.
But they're justifiable throughout the plot.
And it was kind of over the top at one point.
I have a chainsaw.
It's a little crazy.
But people have hit me up about it like,
Yo, Buddy Hutchins is low-key fire.
But it played a niche, you know?
So that's what I'm saying.
Like things have niches.
So your podcast, people will have niches.
It's like when you go to a convention,
I do a lot of horror convention signings.
And there's just people that are just straight up the dude
who is the fifth death guy killed and Chucky will have such a line
because people connect with that character.
So super specific things now.
That's why this all, this media is blowing up
because people will just, like with the hearing aid, you know?
And there's a lot of people out there that need a hearing aid.
They'll take that clip and they'll be like,
Oh, they'll look at it.
And they might be a lot of traffic to Mike because of that.
So it's like, I think we're just always being able to connect in our needs.
Well, none of my can't afford sentences.
Well, that was, that was a church hill.
And that's how it just airs on the tip of my tongue.
Happens, Mike.
King of Maloba.
Happens to the best of us.
Do you, how many, how many, how many parts of the Malibu's most wanted
were kind of just ad-lib like off the cuff?
Like improv?
Yeah.
Well, Nick would write like, Nick had a really good scene.
We would write it, you know, and then it was pretty much,
I'm from the Keenan Library Schools of like Commie.
So Keenan Lake will have like your scene and then it'll have five other jokes.
So I didn't have that luxury, but I would get like three.
So I would say, you know, it was a good amount of it improvised.
Tay and Anthony are hilarious and as funny as the parts were written,
they made it way funnier by improvising.
They improvised so much.
So they were a huge improviser and all the rest of us had moments of it.
But I was writing all the time.
So I would add another joke in.
I would say, try this joke, try this joke, try this joke.
So I tried a lot.
So that was kind of like improvisation.
But there's definitely stuff at the end of the scene where I just add stuff.
Sure.
So like I said with Jim Carrey and Nisbury Reeves,
they're told never shut the cameras off.
You just keep on running.
Yeah.
Some of the funniest stuff is like a minute after the scene.
That's how you, why you hire somebody.
What was the quote?
Matthew McConaughey had said something where he's like,
whatever his movie was, Interstellar.
He was just like, I forget when he said it or what it was.
But it was some clip I saw on Instagram where he's like, when he does his scenes.
Come on, Danny, spit it out.
Come on.
I'm trying.
I'm trying.
I'm better than Churchill, at least.
He said when he does his scenes, when he practices them,
he makes sure they're rolling because he's like the first time he says it,
he says it's always the best.
He says anytime after that, it's always acting.
The first time he says it, it's always real.
Yeah.
Everybody's got their own process.
That's so true.
Yeah.
You know.
Have you seen his movie that he did with Harmony Kareem?
The movie that he did with Jonah Hill?
It's down in the keys.
They filmed it.
It was basically a 99% improv.
What was the movie?
Well, can you find out what the name of the latest Harmony Kareem movie was?
It was called, oh, Beach Bomb.
Oh, I heard that's good.
Dude, it was so good.
It wasn't even like watching a movie.
Wow.
It was just like watching some dudes hang out for two hours.
No script.
It was just like he has Matthew McConaughey, Jonah Hill,
and some other guy sitting there behind some $10 million mansion in the keys,
and they're drinking, and there's hookers.
He's like, action, go ahead, just start talking.
And it was fucking amazing, bro.
Wow.
So such a cool fucking movie.
$10 million mansion, drinking and hookers.
Drinking and hookers.
I tell you, I met Matthew McConaughey and talked to him,
and he is the most family-oriented, honestly.
His kids, his wife, that guy is just straight up a solid guy.
Yeah, he is a solid guy.
Yeah, super solid.
I wanted to ask you, I want to respect your time.
Oh, yeah, I got another pod if you can believe that.
Do you really?
Yeah.
Can we talk a little bit about the heckler?
Yeah, go for it.
You wrote your notes.
Did you even get to your notes?
No, I didn't even get to my notes.
I didn't even get to talk to you about heckler.
I never do notes either.
Oh, the stutterer in the fuck to my right won't show up.
I said the stutterer in the fuck to my right won't show up.
You're not a stutterer.
You just have what we call biting brain.
Now, that hurts, man.
Oh, my God.
Now, that hurts.
I do a whole joke about it.
That hurts.
No, I'm serious.
Hey, man.
I'm serious.
Hey, man.
Come on, come on, man.
Mike's doing a biting brain.
I love that.
Hey, listen, we're on track.
We're going to do over 300 COVID shots this month.
300.
I know.
Oh, wait, wait.
I do a whole joke about it.
Do you?
Yeah.
Are you performing tonight?
Yeah.
Are you?
We're.
Size-blitters.
Yeah, size-blitters.
We should go watch them.
We should.
Let's do it.
Come do it.
Let's do it.
Come do it.
We're going to come watch them.
Absolutely.
We're going to come hang out.
And you sell merch after the shows?
I do.
Fuck yeah.
830, 1030.
Probably the 830 show's going to be packed.
That's the one you're going to go to.
Yeah, but we've got years, so it doesn't matter.
Some people just don't get that table up front.
After this podcast over, he's going to delete my number,
and he's going to forget we even exist.
We're just going to show up and hope for the best.
No, but Biden, they say he's got a stunner,
which is unfortunate,
which, but it's like at some point,
why is he not stuntering?
And is it more of like,
I say it's not a speech impediment,
it's a brain impairment.
Look, you can watch old video of him
because he's been in politics his whole life.
He doesn't have a stutter.
People get real upset about that.
Did you know hearing loss is the leading cause
of cognitive decline?
Is that true?
That is true.
Wow.
All right.
One of the leading causes.
We're going to another commercial.
Yeah, let's not talk about it.
But what inspired Heckler?
How did Heckler come about?
That's the name of it, right?
Yeah, Heckler is all about just really
happened with online.
Online Hecklers.
I started becoming a name
and then I started seeing all the comments
and I was like, what the fuck is this?
We never had that.
Like you go to a movie and then the movie would be done.
You couldn't go write the actor in the movie
and go, the guy who played the postman sucked dick.
You're under such scrutiny now from everybody.
Go into his DM and be like, you suck dick, sir.
You suck as a postman.
You're like, what the fuck?
That never happened, bro.
I don't know what you know in terms of life of your generation.
That was just, you went and saw something and it was done.
Right.
And then if we reviewed the movie.
You don't see people on the side of the road
that are calling you a piece of shit.
Yeah, it was reviewed in a paper in a respectful way.
And so Heckler was kind of like my comment
on society of how it changed, how everything became heckling.
So that's what we live in now.
We live in a troll society.
It was way before all this shit's happening now,
but like reviewers used to review a movie.
They review you now.
They review your career, your face, your body.
Comedy club hecklers will be considered the worst.
They're now the bravest because they're there.
You can put a, they're cool.
Online is the worst because they hide behind a meme
or something and it's like.
In their parents' basement.
Yeah.
So a whole thing is exploration of like accountability.
Like who are these people?
And then so I got all these like crazy ass comments.
And so I went and explored them and I just like,
I went and literally did the thing where you consider the source.
And I found, yeah, I found out what the source was.
And then people will look, I'm funny in the news.
So then I put them on stage and Google, they would bomb.
And you know, and so that was,
you know, that's what the whole movie was about.
It was about exploring who these people are
and why is our society like that?
What do you think the main differences
between internet hecklers and commenters?
Because 90% of my comments are fucking people
that want me to dead.
What's there between those kind of people
and people who are in like a live comedy show?
It's easy to be 10 foot tall
and bulletproof behind a keyboard in your bedroom.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, I think, I think, I think some of those guys are just
swiping, they're just like,
don't think anything of it.
They see you and they're like,
look at this fucking surfing point dexter or whatever.
Cause you got, I don't know.
I'm just making up stupid shit.
Yeah, I'm putting on point there.
Nah, yeah, but it's like, so they'll just say shit.
No, they don't think of it.
You know, you've got a big golfing, the caffeine is running.
Some of it's just harmless.
Some of it is like, they really, you really piss them off
because maybe you live on the life they want
or something and they're insecure.
And some of it is just actual trolling of like,
there's an art to that too.
So it's different.
There's like three or four levels to it.
But you know, I think we should have something
on social media where no one can comment without accountability.
So you have to see who the person is.
You want to censor the comments?
No, I don't want to censor them.
I think all comments, I want to know exactly who they are.
I want to know exactly where they are.
No anemone to me anymore.
No anemone, anemone, anemone.
Anemone, dibba, dibba, dibba.
I know what you meant, Weston.
And it's just like.
If you write it, sign your name.
Yeah, because you would just see a lot different happening.
And then you could like,
like people say so much shit to me
and then they have private accounts.
It's like you.
You got that shit to somebody in a bar.
You get your ass kicked.
You pussy.
Like they're such pussies.
Can push it out but can't take it.
No, yeah, they can't even, they won't allow you to comment.
And I'll leave the comment there.
And then at some point, I just won't even comment.
I'll just let my community is pretty good
about policing that stuff.
I'm like, really?
And then that.
But it's just, it's all good.
I'm not beyond reproach.
We all should be, you know, have looked upon
as, you know, can be criticized.
But it's like, yo, let's have a discussion.
Constructive, yeah.
Don't do a drive-by and gum me down
and then hide behind your fucking private wall.
Bitch move.
It is.
It is a bitch move.
People, the people that do it in the shows,
they are way braver.
Way braver.
They're braver because of the liquor, right?
That's the icon, the ironicness of it.
I don't know.
Some of them are just, most hecklers are harmless.
They're just having a good time.
They're laughing.
They're loud.
They don't understand.
You say something.
They believe you so much.
And they're part of the show.
They don't understand.
But they're mostly white men though, right?
Yeah, mostly, you know, white women in their mid-40s.
We call them the triple dubs, the white wine warriors.
White wine warriors.
Yeah, they get a box of Francia, you know.
Oh my.
Karen's and Sharon's.
That's the scariest gang.
But what I'm saying is they get this,
it's, they're brave because they're there.
I could see their face.
That's was brave.
And those used to be not the brave.
Though, that's what I'm saying.
I respect them more than any of them.
Someone threw a tomato at me.
I wouldn't really enjoy it.
At least it's soft.
But I would respect them more than somebody leaving a comment.
Right.
That's hilarious.
Unless somebody's leaving a comment in another country.
It couldn't take a boat to say to my face.
Does it affect how you handle hecklers?
Because, I mean, historically, comedians, if you, you know,
the last thing you wanted to be is a heckler
because the comedian would, would rip you apart.
What do you mean, does it, does it affect?
Well, now somebody heckles.
And if, and if, you know, you do what stand-up comedians do,
which is just, you know, make a joke of them and embarrass them.
Well, they're the ones right back on their, you know.
I mean, yeah, you deal with them in the moment.
And you know, comedians usually win.
I mean, there's sometimes hecklers win.
There's no doubt.
But yeah, I mean, they'll definitely,
then some people will take their licks
and other people will go on a board and.
Yeah.
But if you're funny, if you got, if it's funny, the crowd sees it.
If you destroyed them in a good way
and you really did a good job.
I think everybody can side with you.
It doesn't stop them.
Yeah, but it doesn't stop them from going, you know,
the next morning or that night
while they're still whatever the W's from Brighton.
White wine warrior.
Yeah.
White wine warrior.
White wine warrior.
I fucking love him.
Mike's giving me Biden brain now.
White wine.
White wine.
But, uh, winst, winst, winst, winst, winst.
Hey, hey, hey.
That's awesome.
That's fucking great.
Appreciate you, man.
Thank you.
I would love to hang when I got.
Tell my listeners, tell my listeners,
promote your product.
My product is hand sanitizer.
Shut up.
You're helping, you're helping the world,
but I'm helping the world.
Giz it off.
It's called Giz off.
You can go and gizoffproducts.com.
So what is it?
It's basically just hand sanitizer,
but it's like, you know, the world is covered in germs,
but, you know, the term for it is giz.
It doesn't have to be that word.
It's just like, yo, everything's got schmutz on it.
It's nice.
It's soft.
And it's five bucks.
Get it gizoffproducts.com.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Giz off product.
Yeah, more of you.
I can get from you.
Yeah, take this.
Is that one?
Damn.
My daughter, when I tell her.
Oh, geez, gosh.
When I, when I, when I, what was that?
Gonna give it to your daughter.
Well, Mike, Mike, no, no, no, no.
She's 28 now.
Oh, okay.
All right.
But she and I watched Malibu's Most Wanted so many times.
So say it.
It's BRADS.
It's BRADS.
Sanitized.
I tell her BRADS.
Yo, BRADS.
But then you got to promote the shit, Mike.
When you're in Honduras, people for earring aids,
like, yo, what's up?
Giz it off.
I'll promote it.
So they're like, what's up?
I'll promote it.
Giz that shit off.
Ladies walking in the bus, throw a little bit at her.
What are you guys doing together, by the way?
We meet up all the time just to work out.
What are you guys?
He's your client?
He's my friend and my client.
Yeah, I do his advertising for his business.
Oh, OK.
You're a marketer.
I do his advertising.
Here's a market to tur tur tur tur.
Making the commercial.
The commercial.
Where do people find your podcast?
Go to my podcast.
You can just go to my website.
Has everything.
jamiecanady.com.
That has my Instagram, my Twitter, my Facebook.
And that's my hub.
You'll see Patreon, all that stuff.
Go to jamiecanady.com for more of me.
Thank you.
I love you, Jamie.
Appreciate you.
Love you, guys.
Awesome to meet you, man.
Pleasure to meet you, Mike.
We're only messing with you.
