We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world.
Today, my guest is Patrick Bet David.
He runs the value-tainment YouTube channel
where he teaches the fundamentals of entrepreneurship
and personal development.
On this one, we talk about fake gurus on YouTube,
his success in the insurance business,
and then creating a media company, and much, much more.
I hope you guys enjoy this podcast with Patrick Bet David.
Yo, what's going on, man?
How you doing?
Good, how are you?
I am good.
What are you based out of?
I am based out of St. Petersburg, Florida.
How about yourself?
I'm in Dallas.
Dallas, Dallas, Texas.
Very nice.
Why not Austin?
That's where all that-
Dallas, to me, is more airport.
It's more the hub of capitalism.
Austin is more LA, and I was escaping LA.
Oh, okay.
It's more capitalism in Austin than there is in,
or more capitalism in Dallas than there is in Austin?
Yes, it's by far, okay.
And Kai, do me a favor and let Zino
to let me know the moment Byron gets in.
So I think he just landed.
Yeah, it's by far more capitalism in Dallas
than it is in Austin.
By far, night and day.
How so?
Dallas is all business-friendly.
It's purely business-friendly.
You go around, you say you're an entrepreneur,
you're a CEO, you're an executive.
Dallas treats you good.
Dallas has probably six times
amount of Fortune 500 headquarters as Austin does.
Dallas is a completely different market than Austin is.
Austin is more LA, San Fran.
It's slightly a different culture.
Interesting.
Very interesting.
So you're saying-
How's it Petersburg?
You're saying mainly the culture's different?
Yeah, the culture's night and day.
Okay.
That's very cool.
I've never been to either one.
I've never been to either place.
I think you will enjoy both of them.
You'll probably have more fun in Austin
than you will in Dallas.
Okay, very nice.
Dallas is quite boring, man.
I'm 42, so I got three kids.
I'm married.
If I was 28, I probably wouldn't be living in Dallas.
You got a lot of open farmland over there, huh?
Yes.
Do you have any cows?
Do you have any cows?
I do not, no.
No?
Okay.
I do eat cows, plenty of them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Do you get them locally or what?
Do you buy cows from farms around where you're at?
Are there farmers where you can go buy cows from and eat them?
I'm sure there is.
I'm not in that business.
I'm in the insurance business.
So it's a completely different business.
No, no.
I don't mean as like a business.
I mean as like to get your food.
I was wondering if there was local farms you could buy.
There are plenty of local farms.
Yeah, there are plenty of local farms
that have a lot of pride here.
I mean, when you drive around, you'll see them,
but when you're in the city, the city is like any city.
You know, it's a big city.
But if you go 20 miles out, it's Texas.
If you're in the city, you know, it's Chicago,
it's Miami, it's LA, it's like any other big city.
So you're gonna stay in Dallas forever or?
I don't think so.
I think I'll be here for probably another less than two years
I'll be here and then I'll be out.
Where are you gonna go after that?
We don't know yet.
I don't know.
I'm debating.
I do like the states you're in.
I almost bought a house in Tampa
and moved to where, you know,
all those guys read in Tampa Bay.
We looked at some nice homes, but you know,
if I do Florida, it would be more on the other side
than it would be on the Tampa side.
Oh, okay.
So tell me your business, what do you do yourself?
I'm in the advertising business.
I, me personally, I started an ad agency in like 2011.
And I, before that, I worked in the film industry.
In particular, I worked on like sets of feature movies.
Like I started as a camera assistant
and then started being a camera operator.
Worked on a bunch of like big feature movies
for like Warner Brothers, did a lot of television production
with, you know, pitching TV pilots to different TV networks
and stuff like that.
And transitioned into advertising,
doing commercials for big brands,
like household brands you've heard of,
as well as some smaller like local mom and pop brands.
And that kind of evolved in just creating my own content
here on YouTube.
And a lot of like the,
a lot of the TV production work that I did,
that I pitched around to all the TV networks,
I ended up just repackaging it for YouTube.
I posted it on there and started doing a lot of like
little mini documentaries.
And then that kind of evolved into doing this kind of stuff
where I can do like,
these things are kind of like documentaries
minus the B-roll in music to me.
So I can do multiple ones a week,
interview people like you,
like to interview a crackhead from down the street,
whoever I want.
And it's kind of like,
they're interesting little character studies for me.
So that's what I do.
Good business model.
And you're in the insurance business?
I am.
How did you get into that world?
By the way, do we start the podcast or not yet?
Oh yeah, yeah, we started.
Sorry, I didn't tell you.
Yeah, I just, I started from when we first started rolling.
Okay, got it.
Yeah, so I got into insurance world.
When I got out of the military,
I went to, I wanted to be bodybuilder.
So originally that was going to get out,
I was going to take,
and then I met a girl who worked at Morgan Stanley Deanwood,
a long story short, I started working
at Morgan Stanley Deanwood or a day before 9-11.
And then got my series 766, 21, you know, 26,
all the licenses at 21 years old
and fell in love with the industry.
I said, this is what I'm going to do.
So I left.
Morgan, I went to Trans America,
I became an insurance agent for the next seven and a half years.
And then October of 09,
started my own company, PHP with 66 agents.
And today we have somewhere around 17 to 18,000
insurance agents in 49 states.
Wow.
What kind of insurance do you sell?
Life and annuities.
It's life, any kind of life and annuities for retirement.
Man, I don't have a very good experience
with insurance companies.
Not going to lie to you.
I have a pretty bad experience with them.
I had business insurance and, you know,
from my experience, insurance companies
only try to do two things,
sell you the policy and then get out of
whatever claims that you have.
I don't think you're wrong when it comes up to PNC.
That's PNC, it's a completely different model.
What does PNC mean?
Property and casualty.
You're talking about property insurance.
You're not talking about life insurance.
Right, no, yeah.
I'm talking about specifically,
actually it was a professional insurance, something like that.
The reason why there are so many unhappy people
like you and I about PNC is because there's so many,
so many words their attorneys use to give them an out.
Yeah.
But on life, if you have a death certificate,
there is no words, you're dead.
It's very simple.
So if you buy a million dollar policy and you die
and you get into a car accident and you die,
you send the death certificate,
we're sending you a million dollar check,
even if you just pay 30 bucks on the term policy.
Wow, interesting.
That's a completely different world
than what I'm used to.
Night and day.
It's not even the same, it's completely night and day.
That's pretty cool, man.
That's really cool.
So how did you transition from insurance world
to something like this to making videos
and doing interviews,
and you do a lot of cool stuff.
Yeah, it purely accidental.
You know, one day I was creating content on the back end.
So you couldn't see the content
we were creating for the company.
And one of my guys came and said,
Pat, why don't you create content for public?
And I said, I don't really know if there's gonna be
a public need for what we're doing.
He said, just try it out.
I said, okay, let's make a couple of videos.
We made a couple of videos.
I said, if I do it, I'm gonna commit to two years.
So I did one video a week.
It was called Two Minutes with Pat.
Two years later, you know, there was some interest.
We had a few thousand subs.
And I said, okay, let's try to do a little bit more.
And then we went to 40,000 subs.
And then I changed the channel's name
from my name to Valuetainment.
And then from Valuetainment,
it grew from 40,000 subs to,
I don't know what we have right now,
but 2.5, 2.6 million subs.
And we interview a lot of different characters.
You know, whether it's a Kobe Bryant,
the late Kobe Bryant to a Cuban,
to a Samuel de Bogervano,
to a political figure president Bush,
to Magic Johnson, to Wayne Gretzky,
a lot of different people we interview.
And it turned into what it is today.
So it was purely accidental.
Now it's a media company.
Now we have a new site.
Now we have Valuetainment Russian with 170,000 subs.
Now we're doing Valuetainment Arabic, Spanish, Portuguese,
Valuetainment Money, Valuetainment Economics,
Valuetainment Politics.
We just started a podcast.
We got a new site called VTPost.com
that we launched, I think, three, four weeks ago.
So now it's becoming a media company.
And that'll be kind of what I'll do after I replace myself
here with the insurance company.
Replace yourself with the insurance company.
What do you mean by, you mean you're gonna put somebody
in your play?
Are you gonna sell it?
Or what are you gonna do?
No, you replace.
So I hire another CEO to run this company.
Oh, you're still gonna own the company?
Until somebody buys it, I will still own the company.
Oh, okay, cool.
That sounds like fun.
Yeah, it's crazy.
And in the meantime, I gotta try to have a good marriage life.
You know, it'll be a decent parent with three kids
and make sure family's happy, health is happy.
Yeah.
And you gotta do all of that in 168 hours in a week.
Yeah, that's a lot.
How many kids you have, three?
Three of them, yeah.
Three kids, and you're doing all this stuff.
That's wild.
I think, yeah, you were mentioning earlier
about moving to Florida.
I can't believe the difference
in the price of houses here in Tampa on the water
versus directly across the Gulf of Mexico
and Texas on the water.
It's like night and day, the difference in price.
It's like three times the price here.
No, no question about it.
But you gotta realize,
it's a different place to live where you live
than to live in Galveston, Houston.
Yeah.
And nobody's trying to go party in Galveston used.
Nobody wakes up and says,
hey guys, what do you wanna do this?
Well, let's go to Galveston,
unless if you are a local person,
my wife is from Galveston,
but nobody wakes up saying I wanna go to Galveston.
But where you are, when I was in the Army,
we would, every time we had a Fourth of July
or Labor Day or Memorial, any of those,
we're going straight all the way down to Panama City.
We'd go to Snippers, what is it, Spinnaker's
and Club La Vila, I think was at Panama City.
And we'd go to some of the areas on your side,
definitely not to Galveston.
Yeah, yeah, this is definitely a,
it's a huge tourist destination here,
very like a transient area, kind of like Vegas.
No one here is actually from here.
I'm not surprised.
Yeah, I'm sure it's a lot like Austin.
Yeah, Austin is, you and I talked about Austin earlier.
It's a very different, Austin is very different.
Yeah, except there's no,
there's not many left-wing people here.
It's all, they're all hardcore Trump people here.
Really, where you are?
Yeah, Tampa, St. Petersburg.
Oh yeah, I mean, there's a little central,
there's probably a very distilled area in St. Petersburg
that is like that, but other than that, no, it's all...
See, what I like is, I like both.
I like all three.
So when I lived in LA, it was all left.
And so you had 75% left and you,
if you even talked about capitalism, you were greedy, right?
If I went to a different place,
in some states you would go to, it's all right.
And it's also a little bit too much
because you need a little bit of balance on the other side.
What I like about Dallas, you know,
I lived in LA for a while and I went all over a place in LA.
Westwood, you know, we'd go everywhere.
You tell me streets, I know streets in LA
because I was there for 24 years.
There's, in my opinion,
there's a bigger gay community in Dallas than there was in LA.
A bigger gay community in Dallas than there was in LA.
And most people, when I say that to them,
they say, what are you talking about?
If you come to Dallas,
I'll take you driving around to the area in Dallas
and you tell me what you see here.
It's a night and day on what it is.
But in Dallas, it's fine.
You know, it's a, because they have center, left and right.
You got a little bit of everything that's here
and it kind of works out.
But when it's too far right or too far left,
I think it becomes problematic for everybody living there.
On the description of your channel, Value Tainment,
it says the best channel for entrepreneurs.
What does that mean?
And how did you, did you have that in mind
when you started it?
Or is that just kind of how it evolved naturally?
No, it was actually originally,
I mean, it was all entrepreneur.
Every content we put up, it was only entrepreneur.
Every content was only entrepreneur.
So if you go on YouTube, you go to filters,
you type in entrepreneur and you go filters, views,
Value Tainment pops up as the number one channel
for the most views.
So that's the Value Tainment part.
But at the beginning, it was purely business.
How to raise money, how to hire, how to fire,
how to recruit, how to bring a business partner,
how do you negotiate with a multi-billion dollar company?
How do you go out there and different ways of raising money?
How do you deal with an angel investors?
How to send an email to angel investors?
How do you deal with bankruptcy?
How do you manage running the company
and being married and having kids?
So everything we ever did for Value Tainment
up until 2018 was 100% entrepreneurship.
In 2018, I did one interview with Michael Francis,
the mobster, and from there,
all of a sudden everybody else started showing up.
Hey, how about we do this?
How about we do this interview?
And all of a sudden we did bodybuilding interviews.
On bodybuilding interviews, we got 15, 20 million views.
On mob interviews, we got 30, 40, 50 million views on,
then it became niches, then China took off,
then the topic of Iran took off,
then the topic of capitalism took off.
So then it becomes topics,
probably kind of like your own channel that you have.
Who's your biggest hit you've ever had in your channel?
Give me the one topic that's done the best on your channel.
I think it's this kid who plays Fortnite for a living.
Okay, so don't go gamers, that's one, right?
What is another topic?
The other most popular one was about a guy
who bought a $5 million Lamborghini in South Beach.
So if I go to concrete channel,
you will kind of see even your own channel that you have.
A gamer, 4.2 million views.
Now, are you a big gamer yourself?
No, but I'm good, I mean, he's just a friend of mine.
I thought it was interesting to talk.
I mean, let's say phenomenal, 4.2 million views.
That's a great interview, right?
So next you got a guy buys a Lamborghini for $4 million.
Okay, that's the second one.
Third one is a pirate junkie.
Fourth one is, he looks familiar.
He's a UK guy, he's the ecstasy guy.
You got the fourth one.
You got Michael, Matthew Cox, right?
Okay, so for you, you got gamers,
you got cars lifestyle,
you got pirate junkie, which is random,
you got drugs, you got con, you got real estate,
you got a real estate guy there.
So those are your six that you're pulling from.
I would probably be doing more gaming if I'm you,
because you got an audience of gaming.
So when you start doing shows,
they become hit and miss.
Like we started doing vlogs.
When we did vlogs, I gotta tell you,
my vlogs are probably the worst vlogs
you'll ever see on YouTube.
Why is that?
If you go look at my vlogs,
it's, you know, there's nothing crazy about the vlogs.
Why is there nothing crazy about my vlogs?
I don't have the most interesting life
to the average person to say,
I can't wait to see what this guy does.
Like I don't have time to go out there and say,
you know, let's go get 16 cases of Skittles,
take, throw it on a bathtub and get two girls
who are willing to jump in here
and let's throw Nutella on top of it,
get 70 million views.
I don't have that kind of time, right?
So some people who do vlogs, they're very interesting
and they know how to keep attention a lot for vlogs.
Like the Logan Pauls or the Jake Pauls
or something, they're killing it with vlogs.
But then the vloggers sometimes try to do what you're doing
that doesn't work for them.
Sometimes the content creators,
which are the how-to business guys,
try to do things others are doing,
it doesn't work for them.
Sometimes the motivational guys go into interviews,
their interviews don't work.
Obviously you're a good interviewer.
If you got seven, eight interviewers,
over a million views,
you obviously are good at interviewing people,
but that's not everybody.
Not everybody's good at interviewing people.
So it's not something that works for everybody.
Like, I don't know if you've tested doing vlogs
or not on your own life.
Have you done vlogs before?
No, I'm not interested in doing any of that stuff.
That's an interesting idea that you just mentioned.
How you said, because I have a video
that has four million views about a gamer,
maybe I should do more gaming stuff.
It may have an audience for it.
How do you feel about making content
for your audience versus making content
about what speaks to you personally
or what you're personally interested in?
Yeah, so I do bodybuilding
because I wanted to be Mastro Lempia before.
So it's very easy to be bodybuilding
because anything from 1990 on till mid 2000,
I know all the bodybuilders.
And I'm very good friends with Phil Heat.
We're pretty much talking every single week.
Good friend of mine.
I advise him on a couple of things that he does.
So bodybuilding interview for me is very easy.
Mob interview is very easy for me.
Why?
I watched all the stories.
I read all the books.
I know all the things that I came up reading
about the things that happened with mob.
So whatever you do that there's interest in you,
when you do that interview,
the audience is gonna feel it.
Whatever you do.
You gotta chase the views
or do you chase just what you're interested in
even if it doesn't bring in views?
Do you focus more on business?
The business side of it, the numbers, all that stuff?
Or do you just, whatever, follow your passion
or your dream or whatever it is?
If you're doing it just to have fun, you're doing it.
If you're doing it because it's a business model
and you're selling stuff through it,
then that's a different thing.
If you're doing it because it's so different
for everybody on YouTube.
I mean, you got these six-year-old kids,
seven-year-old kids that are unpacking toys,
making 22 million-year-old kids.
Name is Ryan.
He's got this channel that all he does
is open up Lego toys or different toys.
He's a 22-million-dollar-year-earner, seven-year-old kid.
I mean, who's doing it?
Him or his parents?
His parents.
There are so many ways to leverage technology today
but it's all on what you're solving for.
And many times while you're doing what you're doing,
you may not even know it for the first two, three, four,
five years.
Five years later you may say,
you know what, this is gonna turn into a bit concrete.
All of us could have 10 million subscribers.
Now you're getting sponsors are coming to you
and saying, hey, what can we do together?
You have no idea what it's gonna go from there.
Now you need advisors.
Now you got attorneys.
Now you got agents, managers.
Now you got people come up to you saying,
hey, we wanna use them in different ways.
What do you think about this?
Now you got opportunities coming your way.
Then you really will be making decisions
in a different way.
Next thing you know, I'm Patrick Bet Davis level.
Well, listen, everybody has a different,
the biggest challenge is, you know,
when you look at the game,
you said something very interesting here.
Do you solve for views?
Or do you solve for what you wanna do?
What's your passion is, right?
I mean, originally when you're coming out,
it's unfortunately when you're smaller,
a lot of times people compare, right?
Oh my God, look at that guy.
I mean, like when we were first getting started,
it's like, oh, we only have a hundred subscribers.
Oh my gosh, we suck.
Nobody likes our content.
This must not be good.
Then you're like, well, we got one video,
got 300 views.
This is amazing.
You know, and then who are these 300 people
that are watching this video?
Then you get 1,000 views, 2,000 views.
And then the moment you forget
what the audience thinks about the content you're creating,
that's when you start winning.
The moment you forget that,
I really don't care if you like it or not,
I'm enjoying it.
Absolutely.
I really don't care if you,
like when I went into bodybuilding interviews,
I gotta tell you, I got a lot of people that hated
the fact that I was doing bodybuilding interviews.
They said, why are you doing bodybuilding interviews?
This is an entrepreneur website.
I said, I love bodybuilding.
They try to keep you in your box.
You got it.
So you yourself, you have momentum right now.
You're about to get big momentum.
All of a sudden you get to five, 10 million subs.
You're one of these guys that are bigger channels.
You know, people are gonna try to keep you in a box.
You gotta play to what you wanna play.
Because that's how you want people over in the first place.
Right, absolutely.
And there's also a lot of people,
I just did an interview with a guy recently who,
his name is, have you ever heard of him?
His name is Coffeezilla.
I have not.
So basically he exposes quote unquote fake gurus.
And he exposes people who go online
and basically try to create or falsify a persona
of them having extreme wealth,
like having Ferraris in the background
with their shots or whatever.
And then essentially all they're trying to do
is to sell like courses, online courses,
where they can, you know, get vulnerable people
with little to no money who have hit rock bottom,
who they need to find,
they're looking for some sort of light
to bring them out of the darkness.
And they find these guys with these flashy cars,
these big watches,
find out how I make $5,000 a day on Amazon.
And it's super interesting.
And there's a huge culture of people like that on YouTube.
I mean, he's got a couple hundred thousand subscribers.
And if it's working for him, look, in the world,
some people want to be lawyers, right?
Yeah.
What's a lawyer?
A lawyer sits there and tries to fight for their,
defend their client,
but at the same time expose you,
if they're going up against you, that's their job.
So to you, this person's lawyer is annoying
because they're exposing you, right?
But it is, there is a need for lawyers.
As much as we hate lawyers,
there's a need for lawyers, right?
Okay.
Cops, you can't stand a cop when he's pulling you over
and it's annoying, you know?
Especially if the cop is a little bit of a arrogant prick
and he thinks he's got the badge,
he can kind of push you around.
But look, if you're going out,
the other day I got pulled over by this cop.
He pulls me over, I said,
what did I, what'd you pull me over?
He says, what did I pull you over for?
I said, what'd you pull me over for?
He says, first of all, you made a U-turn.
You didn't put the, what do you turn signal?
You were drifting the car,
then you went and passed the red light
and you were speeding
and you were about to race the guy next to you
and you're lucky I don't have a gun on me.
I can give you six tickets, right?
I said, you know what, you're right.
I do deserve all the stuff, right?
So he comes back, he says, look, just the fact
that you were chill, I'm giving you one ticket.
I said, cool.
Thank you.
We had a great 15 minute conversation I left, right?
There is a place for guys like that.
There is a place for guys like that.
You know, when I was in LA, there was a-
For the cop?
No, for this guy, with coffee zilla,
what you're telling me-
Oh, right, yeah, absolutely.
There is a place for people like that.
Where they go and say, hey, look, I'm gonna expose.
Now, he may be right or wrong, but he's gonna expose
and let the audience make a decision for themselves
on what they wanna do because you are right.
There are a lot of people online right now
where anybody can go out there and say,
I'm worth half a billion dollars.
People are gonna believe it.
This is why, you know, so interesting you bring him up.
The number one question I ask people,
whenever somebody tells you they're rich,
the number one question is the question I ask you.
The number one question I ask you as well,
when we start, I said, how do you make your money?
What do you do?
And you said, TV, I worked on some big films.
I ended up doing advertising in 2000.
And I think you said 11.
Yeah, 11.
And you know, I got into advertising.
I did some big companies.
I did some local companies.
Great, so in my mind, you're an advertiser
and in your good interview or you're curious,
you ask the right question.
You got a channel that's soon to be over a million subs
on your way to 10 million subscribers, right?
Okay, great.
But I went to, how did you make your money?
The number one question a lot of these online gurus
that you call, when you ask them,
how do you make your money?
They don't have an answer to that question.
The way they made their money is...
Selling courses.
Selling courses.
So by the way, and if they open up and say that,
then that's okay.
Meaning if you say, how'd you make your money?
I made my money selling courses.
Okay, cool.
You know, versus how'd you make your money?
Well, I made my money because I did a real estate deal
and I sold this real estate deal for $28 million.
How do we know you sold it for $28 million?
How do we not know your share is only $50,000?
But the story is $28 million.
For example, I bought a hotel here for $36 million.
Okay?
Do you know how much of an owner I was
on that $36 million hotel we bought?
You didn't buy it with Grant Cardone, did you?
No, no, no, no.
I bought it with my best.
So I bought a hotel here for $36 million.
Okay.
But do you know how much of that hotel I owned?
How much?
Less than a percent.
So when people said, how much?
I said, buddy, I don't own the hotel.
I just am one of the investors in this hotel.
A very small percentage.
They said, hey, you want to put some money into it?
You know, here's 50 grand.
Here's a hundred grand.
But you can spin it and say, I have a, you know.
Of course.
So a lot of that is on the marketing side.
And look, in nobody nowadays walks on water.
So if anybody wants to go out there and say,
oh, I'm holy, I don't do anything wrong.
Sometimes you got to be careful
because if you play the card of I'm holy and I'm an angel
and you know, I don't do anything wrong,
that can also backfire on you.
This is why for me and married,
I tell you what my wife and I say to each other,
I'll say it all the time.
When we got married, people asked me a question.
They said, oh my gosh, you know, at my wedding,
there were people on one side.
It was all the Harry Middle Eastern folks,
you know, who look like me.
They're all the same.
They look the same.
And then on the other side is all the good looking,
blue-eyed, green-eyed people like yourself,
my wife's family, right?
They're all, you know, so they're standing on one side.
They're all standing on one side and they look at each other.
No one's dancing.
It's a big wedding.
We got 450 people there at this wedding.
Then one of my friends gets up.
He is hammered.
He's so hammered, it's not even funny.
He's so hammered, his wife's next to him.
He's flirting with other people's wives.
He's that hammered right there.
He's that gone, okay?
And he's the kind of guy you want to party with
because in a different career,
he could have been Vince Vaughn from wedding crashers, okay?
He's like that kind of a personality.
He's trying to give you a visual, go looking guy.
He gets up.
He says, look, I'm not going to lie.
You guys seem very concerned about this wedding,
whether this is going to work out or not.
I am in the same place.
I don't have a clue whether this is going to work.
He's one of my groomsmen.
He says, but I finally figured out what Jennifer
and Patrick have in common.
Jennifer's from Texas.
Patrick's from Iran.
He says, look, both of these guys like weapons
of mass destruction and they're like oil.
I think this is going to work out, right?
Everybody starts laughing, cracking up
and they started dancing.
I'm giving my final speech and I said, well, listen,
a lot of you guys are wondering
whether this thing is going to work out or not.
You know, there's some Vegas odds right now,
whether it is or not, all I can tell you is this.
I know one thing for a fact.
I know for a fact, we can be married for one year.
We're going to take a one year at a time.
So we went to one year, two years.
Now we've been married for 11 years.
I'm not going to put the pressure,
we're going to be together forever.
Why would you do that?
You don't know what happens tomorrow.
So, you know, sometimes these online folks
that play the holy card.
It's one of the reasons why I was an atheist
for 25 years because I grew up in a church
that people get up and talk about God
and how perfect they are.
And next thing you know, you know,
they're the ones that are judging you
that end up doing the things that they judged you on.
And you're sitting there saying, listen, man,
this is exactly why I don't want to go to church.
But then you eventually find a community
where they say, I'm here because I'm also screwed up.
I don't want to go to church.
And you remind me that I'm going to hell.
I know I'm going to hell.
I just want to know, I got a spot in heaven.
You know, that kind of like that mindset of going to a place.
So, I do believe there's a great place for guys like this
that are doing what they're doing
because there are a lot of people online
that they simply made their money selling their courses online.
And they should just come out and say,
here's how I made my money.
I made my money selling courses.
Right.
But the thing is about it, if they said that,
they probably wouldn't sell nearly as many courses.
And those people, they want to make money.
That's why they're doing what they're doing.
And they need to sell those courses.
Then that's why a guy like this comes after you.
Right.
Right.
It's sort of inevitable.
Like this kind of guy is bound to elevate.
You've got to realize Tony Robbins
has been dealing with this his entire life.
Yeah, but Tony Robbins is very, very different.
Tony Robbins, obviously, yeah, he's a self-help guy.
You know, he wrote all those books on sales
and making yourself great.
You know, being a better NLP, all that stuff.
But he also, like, going to a Tony Robbins event,
you're going there for the experience.
It's like going to the supermarket.
How old are you?
How old are you?
I'm 33.
Okay.
You know how old Tony is?
He's probably in his 60s, right?
He just celebrated 60.
You know when he started doing his first event?
No, he was 23, 24 years old, right?
What's the point?
Go talk to somebody his age.
Tony used to put up events with 10, 20 people.
Tony had to overcome that.
It took him two decades.
That's what I'm trying to tell you.
So you're saying he started selling courses?
Oh yeah, Tony was selling.
And by the way, this is coming from a guy
that's attended his courses.
I bought his books.
I bought everything that he has.
I bought his stuff from way back in the days.
But he struggled with that because he was known
back in the days as the infomercial guy.
Middle of the night, you'd be sitting there watching TV
and he says, are you sick and tired of being sick and tired?
Is your job not fulfilling your dreams?
Have you made promises to your wife
of taking her to that one destination
in Italy or France that you've not made it happen?
It's time to, you know, all this kind of messages.
And it was infomercial.
Oh my gosh, let me buy this $200 program.
Let me buy this $200 program.
So he went through that for a long time,
but what Tony gets credit for
is Tony recreated himself multiple times.
Some of these guys are gonna get a lot of shots
that's gonna be taken at him.
They're gonna have to figure out a way to recreate themselves.
Remember, Rogan was a fear factor guy.
And prior to that, he was an actor.
And prior to that, he was a karate guy, okay?
And he was a good looking guy that was coming up.
Then all of a sudden he said,
let me team up with Dana White.
They worked out together.
He started doing his kinds.
Till today he considers himself a comedian.
All the other stuff is secondary, right?
So comedy, UFC, podcast, he's recreated himself.
I don't know how many times.
So the race, when people bring up names to me,
the race of content is gonna be
who can recreate themselves the most times
and stay relevant for decades.
The reason why Ray Charles and Stink
get the kind of credit and respect that they get,
I believe they're the only two
that have number one hits in four different decades.
Four different decades.
Think about how much music changes every decade.
Imagine staying relevant for four different decades.
It's a very difficult thing to do,
to stay relevant for different decades.
So a lot of these online guys,
they're gonna have to overcome these.
You know who they are.
All these videos that you do on these guys
that this guy does on them.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Some of them are gonna overcome it.
Some of them are not gonna overcome it.
But they're gonna have to overcome this phase
of people like this going after them,
saying how you make your money's courses.
Right.
Yeah, it'd be interesting to see what Tony Robbins would do
if he was younger and starting out in this day and age,
how he would do it.
I think he'd be 10 times bigger.
Do you think that, I mean,
but do you think that he baited his audience
into thinking he was some like big successful guy
when he first started?
Like, look at me, I'm rich.
When he first started doing those courses.
No, I think Tony's approach.
Tony's approach was,
the story that makes Tony very vulnerable
is when he was at his Venice apartment
and his friend comes in, he's 38 pounds overweight,
is disappointed.
He said rock bottom.
I think he was working at Jim Rohn.
And I don't know whether he was working
in the nutritional company with Jim Rohn.
And he came from a place of, look, I screwed up my life.
Then I went and read books and then I changed my life.
And I'm sharing what worked with me to you.
So that's still a very noble way of bringing the messaging.
He's packaging it very well.
So he's not coming from a place of,
let me tell you how powerful I am.
Those are the people that sometimes get,
a lot of people that come after them for the right reasons.
Now, if they can handle it, they're going to be fine.
If they cannot handle it,
they may need to want to change their positions.
For example, for Trump,
Trump enjoys people going after him his entire life.
That's his comfort zone.
It's not for everybody.
Some people get rattled.
Some people don't like that.
He loves it.
Matter of fact, he will intentionally
file a bankruptcy on a business
just to get you to write about it.
He is a very different kind of guy.
But if somebody says, I want to be like Trump
when I grow up, you can't
because you got to have that guy's DNA.
If you don't have that guy's DNA, you can't be like him.
You got to take a completely different play
of a different person's playbook rather than his.
It's not going to work for that personality.
But if somebody online has Trump's personality,
they're going to be all right.
It's amazing how many people you can get to follow you
and to worship you if you project this wealthy persona.
You know what I mean?
If you could put a Ferrari in the background of your videos,
you can get so many people to follow you.
That's forever though.
It's such a weird thing.
It's really insane like how effective that is
for some people.
Yeah, it's not forever though.
Think about it.
Like, you know, like Kardashian,
they would say, oh, she's famous because of that video, right?
I've been probably even guilty of saying that, you know,
she's famous because that one video
she did with Brandy's brother, right?
The porno?
Yeah.
The porn video?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The porn video that went out and everyone was like,
oh my gosh, she was this girl
and then she was friends with Paris Hilton
and all this stuff, right?
Okay, no problem.
You look at Kim Kardashian today.
How many times has she recreated herself?
I mean, they're on the 20th season
of Keeping Up with Kardashian.
I've never watched an episode, not one time
have I watched Keeping Up with Kardashians.
You know how many people in my office keep up with it?
And you sit there and you say, at this point,
Kim Kardashian at this point has reached same status.
You know what same status is?
Here's what same status.
It's not she's a saint.
That's not what same status is.
Same status is, no matter what you say today,
no one cares today.
You can say whatever you want about Kim today,
no one cares today.
She's reached a tipping point.
The only thing she can do is if she does something
royally stupid, criminal, something completely out of line,
but she's reached a level right now
that she's got millions of haters
and she's totally comfortable with it.
She still looks good at 40.
I don't know how old she is.
I'm gonna assume she's 38, 40.
I don't know her exact age,
but I'm gonna assume she's gonna be that age.
Kim Kardashian, how old are you?
Let's see here.
She's getting up there for sure.
He's 40 years old.
We're three days apart.
Okay, cool.
I didn't know that.
She's October 21st.
You're three days apart in age?
I had no idea.
We're, I'm 78, she's 80.
So we're three days, but look at her.
Good for you.
She looks amazing.
So now somebody could have said to her at 21 years old,
your looks alone cannot get you everywhere
for the rest of your life.
She can now laugh and say, I'm 40 and I still look good.
And I'm still making my billions.
And what do you gotta say about that?
She's like the, she wants to be in the level
of Sophia Loren and Marilyn Monroe
and Elizabeth Taylor type of a level.
She doesn't care if she gets married eight times.
She just wants to get to that kind of a level.
So when you talk about the cars,
the cars don't work long-term.
They just don't work long-term.
They work temporarily.
They do not work long-term.
You know, one of my first videos that it was called
Life of an Entrepreneur, okay?
And it was called Life of an Entrepreneur 90 Seconds.
That's the one that got 35 million views
in the first 30 days on Facebook.
And all my websites shut down in the first 12 hours
because first 12 hours it got 10 million views.
And we're on this, what do you call it?
The hosting company and they're trying to get it up.
If you look at the life of an entrepreneur,
guess what car's in it?
A red Ferrari, okay?
So when I posted that video about it,
I said, oh, he probably rented this Ferrari.
I'm like, damn, there's people think I rented this Ferrari.
Okay, I mean, I had that.
It was yours, you owned it?
I had it for three years.
I had that Ferrari for three years.
I sold the Ferrari a year ago.
Okay, I had it for three, I drove it every day.
I sold it with 25,000 miles.
You sold it last year?
I sold it last year.
Yeah, so for me, when I had my Aventador,
I drove it every day.
I put 10,000 miles on it.
I just sold my Aventador.
I put 20,000 miles on it.
I drive my exotics.
I don't buy it and put it except the next one I'm buying.
That one's not gonna be driven a lot,
but when that comes, that comes.
What's the point, moral of the story?
If you go through my pictures on Instagram,
I don't know how many pictures
you're gonna see with cars.
Maybe five, maybe six.
Does it work?
100%.
I will tell you, it 100% works.
If you own a Ferrari and you pull up to a place
that you want to network,
and you pull up in a red Ferrari,
you're gonna get different kind of attention
than if you pull up in an S500.
It's just automatic.
Everyone's gonna look at it.
So yes, it's chauvinistic, whatever you want to call it,
but when Trump goes to speak in North Carolina
and there's a plane in the back, not an Air Force One,
but it says Trump.
Pretty sick.
You know, it's kind of like, call this man broke.
It's $10,000 an hour to fly that thing.
So you think he's broke?
If he flies from Florida to New York and back,
that's a $60,000 fly just on gas.
You think he's broke paying $60,000?
The average person spends $400 to go from Florida
and New York back and forth.
This guy's spending $60,000 to go on a plane like that.
You gotta know that people sit there and say,
this freaking guy owns a plane and it's got his name on it.
So there is an element that it works only.
That's the part I was going to with this.
He's a great marketer.
He's a great marketer,
but the reason why it works for him
is because of what we talked about with Stink and Ray Charles.
He's been doing this for decades, same as Kardashian.
So you can put a picture with a Ferrari,
but if that picture doesn't show up five years from now,
you may have been a fraud.
You can put a picture of your house,
but if you rented that house,
everybody wants to know what happened to that house
15 years later and you're forgotten about it.
And I will tell you, there is nothing,
there is nothing worse than being forgotten about it.
It doesn't matter if you're a grandfather.
If your grandkids and your kids don't want to see you anymore,
it's one of the most painful things you'll ever have.
If you don't get an invitation to a wedding
and you're a grandfather, I mean, that's like a night.
No pain is going to be more difficult than that, right?
So you can-
Have you experienced that?
Have I experienced on a smaller scale?
I experienced on a smaller scale,
more on the nightclub scene,
because I was the guy that was,
you wanted to go to the parties with me
and the girls and all that other stuff.
And then one moment I decide to get my act together
and stop being the guy that I was
and I wanted to change some of my habits.
I was partying way too much.
I was going to Vegas every other weekend.
I'm at nightclub six nights a week.
I'm at nightclubs and women here, women there.
And one day I just said, I want to drop this habit
because I'm broke.
My dad had a heart attack.
I went to the hospital and I saw this man
at UCLA medical center on his deathbed
lost nearly 40 pounds.
And I said to myself,
we got to make some changes here, man.
This is not going to happen.
I went in my car, sat on my Ford Focus.
I was the guy that had the nice SUV.
I take everybody to the club.
So I'm on my Ford Focus,
crying like a little baby at 23 years old.
I said, you're partying every night.
Your dad's about to die.
He works at a 99 cents store.
This man sacrificed everything to bring you to America.
You want to go party every night?
What are you doing?
Get your act together.
Next day I came to look on my face, changed.
I went to work, but I was forgotten about
at the nightclubs.
I was forgotten about.
I was no longer the cool guy.
I was the square guy.
All you want to do is read business books.
What a fricking boring guy you are.
But that's kind of a cool thing.
But it's not though at the beginning
when you're going through it.
At the beginning when you're going through it,
it's not because there's short-term pain.
And most people believe it or not,
if that was so easy, a lot of people would do it.
But most people eventually hate the comment people make
when they say, you know what, Bobby?
Man, I miss the old you.
You've changed.
Most people cannot handle that compliment.
They don't know it's a compliment.
They take it as a diss.
In that moment, you don't know what's going on
because you haven't still proven
that you're going to be successful.
When I was going through the phase,
I wasn't dead $49,000.
So people are like, what are you doing?
Come on down.
We're missing you.
And everybody's asking about you.
And it's like, oh, it's bad.
So you kind of are forgotten about.
And when that happens, you kind of start thinking about
what really matters in your life.
And then eventually you get to the mature stage
where you say, well, really,
that stuff didn't matter to me anyways.
But when you're in the middle of it,
you don't know because you don't know if the price is worth it.
You don't know if the price is worth it.
So Danny, when you're in the middle
and you're going through pain to price
and you have not yet proven to yourself, okay?
Meaning nobody yet knows, you don't know,
if this 80 hours a week you're putting into working
is going to work.
How many guys pay the price of playing football 24-7
and then make it this close to the NFL
and they don't make it?
They're working out of Starbucks.
That's a very good, so you're right there.
You can go smoke weed with that girl and party
and do a couple of lines.
Because you don't know for a fact
if you're going to get into the NFL.
And you're tempted.
She's the one you always wanted to get together.
When now she wants to get together
with you and bring her girl with you.
That's some experience.
Do you want to really give that up?
And at one moment you're in that tipping point.
You may not make it in the NFL.
So you're kind of like, well, I'm not going to make it anyways.
Why am I going to do it?
I'm not going to build a real business anyways.
How do I know I'm going to do it?
So it's in those moments where we screw up.
So yes, there is nothing more painful
than being forgotten about.
When it happens, many of these guys that were cool
at one point with their Ferrari pictures
they will be forgotten about if there's no substance.
Now, you said you were born in what, 78, 79?
78, October 18, 78.
That's like right when the revolution was happening
in Iran, right?
Yes.
So what's your story with that?
What's the story like your family
and how you guys came to the United States?
See that painting right there, all going to back.
Yep.
You know who's in the middle?
Geez, look at that Hulk.
That thing's huge.
Yeah, who is that?
Is that the guy who died?
I forget his name.
He's a Shah of Iran.
Yeah, that's a Shah of Iran.
The Shah, okay.
Shah of Iran, who was the pre-revolution.
He was the king of Iran, right?
So he was running Iran.
So I was born three months later, he was in exile.
They kicked him out because the renewal for oil
was coming up with Iran with the four Western countries.
We were talking France, UK, US, I think it's Germany.
It's those four that are together.
And if he falls, they're not going to be able to have him
strong arm them to negotiate their oil.
Because I think it was like a 25 year contract.
He signed with them and he was about to ask
for a lot more money and they didn't want that.
So the coup helped Jimmy Carter
and all the other guys that were negotiating with them
to have leverage because now Iran was in shambles
and a new regime would have given them decent prices
because they'd be desperate
because of all the problems they're facing.
I don't know if you've ever read the book Economic Hitman.
It's a business model that's been going on for a long time.
And Economic Hitman, I think sold five million copies.
It talks about that business model back in the days
where they would come, they would sit with you,
they would say, hey, you know,
we're going to give you this much money.
Your kids are going to go to Harvard.
They're going to do this.
They're going to do that.
America is going to give you protection.
But in return, we want you to sell us behind closed doors,
the resources of your country.
Your populace is not going to know about it.
If you don't tell us, you're going to fall anyways
or we're going to kill you.
So that worked for a lot of different countries,
but it didn't work with him because he was too stubborn.
But they ended up doing it anyway.
So yeah, it was born out of a weird time
and it lived in Iran for 10 years.
Wow.
He'll, Khomeini died, I think June 2nd or June 3rd of 89.
I don't know the exact date,
but I think Khomeini died June 2nd or June 3rd of 89.
And then we left Iran to Germany on July 15th, June 30th.
Okay, so we went to Germany on July 15th.
I lived at a refugee camp in Germany for less than two years.
And then came to the States here on November 28th, 1990.
And so yeah, I was 12 years old when I came here.
Very, very weird times from Iran to Germany to US.
Do you still have any family back there?
If you're a visit.
I do, I do, but it's more cousins.
All three of my uncles that were there died.
They're all dead.
So I don't have any uncles or aunts.
I only have one first cousin and a few second cousins.
And that's it.
Do you ever visit there anymore or no?
I cannot, because.
Oh, you cannot, okay.
Why can't you visit?
Political reasons, I cannot.
I cannot visit Iran.
Interesting.
Well, cool, man, I appreciate you doing this.
It was, it was great to meet you.
I got to tell you, you're a very good interviewer.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're a very good interviewer.
And I hope you double down on the amount of people
you're interviewing because you, you could,
you could really go places with the way
you're interviewing people.
You mean, do you think I should do more of them?
I think, I think you, you know how to do this well.
I think you, you got to really know you.
I don't know who's told you or get that interview.
Has anybody that nobody, nobody's, nobody's ever told me
that you're the first or an incredible interviewer.
Thank you.
You're an incredible interviewer.
I don't know if you studied it.
I don't know if you watched other people that don't know
if you grew up watching Letterman or Leno or Stossel
or Wallace or I don't know who, if you did any of that stuff,
but you, you actually are a very good interviewer
and you should keep doing this.
Thank you, man.
That's a huge compliment.
That's a rare compliment.
And I appreciate that greatly.
Yeah, I don't think, I think I've said that maybe
to two people that have interviewed me.
You're the second person.
Really?
If you go watch other people interview me,
you probably will never hear me say
what I just said to you right now.
How many, how many interviews do you do?
Like, what is your schedule like with creating content?
Well, I don't do that many.
I tell my staff and my board that I'm willing to do
two interviews a week, like interviews like this per week,
but me interviewing people some weeks,
like this week is a five week.
I'm doing five interviews this week.
And I'm running.
And the reason why I'm doing five interviews this week
is because I'm about to go through a very busy season
of my company.
And if I don't do five interviews this week,
I'm gonna be very busy in November.
November, December is very busy for us for whatever reason.
It's our industry.
We're very busy November, December.
Some businesses, they're not.
Some businesses are for us.
It's very busy.
And so I'm doing five to give me weeks back to me.
That makes any sense.
So I don't have to, I can kind of put two a week
and you know what I'm talking about.
So kind of give myself some time back.
But I generally will do one or two a week.
I like to do two, but I'll generally do one or two a week.
This week alone, it's five.
Yeah, I'm interviewing Knuth Gingrich.
I don't know who I got.
I'm interviewing a few political people
because we are at the season of politics.
So I'm conducting the interviews this week.
Very cool, man.
That's a-
Keep at it.
You got kids or you buy yourself?
Actually, I have a one year old.
Are you married?
I am married, yeah.
Okay, is the baby keeping you busy?
The baby's keeping me very busy.
Luckily, my wife is able to stay at home with and raise him.
So that's her job.
And so that frees me up a lot,
but I try to spend, I spend a lot of time on there
every day at 7 p.m. for dinner and bath time.
And it's definitely, it was a life-changing event
as far as how I schedule my life
and how I have to structure everything around my life,
basically around that.
It's good for you.
It's been a learning curve and you're used to it.
You have three kids, right?
Yeah, you know, I had my first at 33 as well.
So it's funny.
Oh, really?
Yeah, so you had it at 32.
So 33 is once or seven, no.
So I had my first at 33.
So you're ahead of me on kids.
But, you know, if you got one
and your wife stays home with the kids,
you got time really double down here.
So do you have anybody that represents you
and sets down and kind of maps out what you think,
what your long-term planning are or not at all?
My long-term planning as far as-
What are you trying to do with this concrete here?
What's your outcome?
My outcome is just to keep,
I don't really have like a long-term plan with it.
I'm kind of doing it as I, as it comes to me really.
I'm not, I don't have like a five year
or a 10 year goal for it.
Got it.
But-
You got a big upside.
You got a very big upside with this alone.
I tell you-
I would say my goal, if I did have a goal,
it would be to transition my,
everything from my advertising business
as far as building advertising
and generating campaigns for other brands,
putting all that time and energy into this would be my goal
and have this be able to sustain everything
and not have to do that.
I know this is a weird plug.
I totally forgot this is a book interview we're doing.
This is a great book for you
because for you, it's knowing your next five moves
because you got a big upside.
And you don't, you don't even have to put this up
in your podcast, but you got a very big upside.
I think, I think you ought to,
you ought to kind of think about what you want
because you got a little bit of Howard Stern in you.
You got a little bit of the weird side of him.
You got a little bit of a Letterman in you.
So you got a big upside.
That's cool, man.
I will definitely check that out.
I really appreciate that.
Really enjoyed it, man.
This has been a blast.
It was great meeting you, man.
And I hope it can keep in touch.
Take care, buddy.
