Yo yo, we're live with Seth Anthony and Kenny Mullins.
Yo yo yo yo yo yo yo.
What's going on guys?
It's good.
Seth Anthony, the country singer from, where are you from?
Fort Pierce, Florida.
Fort Pierce, Florida.
Born and raised in Florida?
Born and raised man, born and raised.
How did you meet this guy over here?
Over in the couch?
No, this dude.
Oh, Shane?
Yeah, he told me about you.
It's funny man and I also want to know how you met these guys too. Oh, yeah
We'll talk about that after they're important over there, man. That's why they're here Shane. I met Shane
Just about two months ago through Kenny my manager right here and I said, you know
I'm not going on tour till about the end of June
So let's uh, I need to work man
I can't just sit around and keep going to the beach and not making no money and you know, I mean
I'm not on the radio or nothing yet. So let's let's make some money man
So hook me up with Mikey Lambert man a guy he works with and I can't I went out there
I was doing concrete man for like what is it?
Dark till dark. Yeah, I'm up to sundown. Yeah, man getting it in 95. Holy shit. That's great
So you guys were working construction. Yeah, and then what and how did you just he just told you about the country stuff and the music and
Yeah, Seth was there for a little bit and then word went around our job site
He's some country music. We looked him up on YouTube and he's got a lot of views on there
Blowing up a little bit. So that's crazy. How did you get into all that? How'd you get into music? It's crazy, man
You know last year I left from Fort Pierce, Florida
And I just things weren't going right in my life and I took off
I left out of there man, and I came to he was building house over here
My boy Nelson Johnson, man
He was building his dream house man and all my buddies were working on it and everything and they brought me in and
$20 an hour cash. I was like, you know, I'm gonna come over there and work. Yeah, I started working in everything and next thing
You know, I'm doing tile one day. I'm singing and Rob
Rob was like me. She's really try singing man. You never know where it's gonna go. You know, and I was like, yeah
Fuck that whatever man fucking keep fucking walking, you know, and I thought about it
I was like, what the fuck am I doing? You know what I mean? Like, you know, I took the money that I was making working on his house
And I I bought a beat. I wrote the song to it
I copyrighted the lyrics. I paid for the studio and executive studios over there with Sean Forbes
We he records that
And I recorded rough next fall in love my first single and then next time he came it was a call
Oh rough next fall in love. Okay when you were playing earlier. Yeah, okay. Okay. That's the first one ever drop
I'm out earlier. Yeah, so I I recorded that and then I played it for him and he was like
Make it better and he just kind of walked off
What the fuck, you know, so I was like, I make it better. All right, so I went to another
what was it a clear track clear track studios and
Got with a guy and he he made it a little bit better and next thing you know
We got it and it was better and he heard it and he said still make it better
So James was in Atlanta at his other studio and he paid him $300. He was like, I'm gonna give you $300 right now
I want it mastered and done tonight. We're gonna play it in the club. I'm not even an established artist
You know, I'm saying so it was pretty crazy. It was kind of from the start. It's been a dream
You know, yeah, so I was just surrounded by the right people and he did that and we got the mix and it played in
It's on video on Facebook and round up. They played it the first night and ever since then it kind of just took off
But after that, I asked I was like, hey lo me five thousand dollars, man
I'm working for you give you five hundred back a week and let's let's do this man. He said, all right
Try to give him the money and he was like, oh man, I'm good right now, man
You know, I was like, all right, man, and who is it you're talking about Nelson Johnson. He's the bank
Yeah, he's the bankroll. He's like, yeah, they started my career. He started my career. He's a brother, man
You know, I mean he he he he doesn't support me no more only
Emotionally and fiscal as brother enough financial
And this is all down south like in Fort Pierce area or is that this is right here now right here in Clearwater
So yeah, so I was as Fort Pierce is a small town. If you know where West Palm Beach is by about 45 minutes. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, so it's not a lot going on there man. It's kind of a lot of people are retired there
It's it's a small town, but uh all the Jewish people that move down from New York. I get yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah
Definitely a lot of New Yorkers and they all complain about how the food sucks here
No, it's not like New York. Go back to New York. It sucks down here in Florida, right forest
That's what so you said so what were you doing before you met this dude and started making music? Oh, man, I was fucking uh
Unfortunately, man, I was growing up as growing up. I I
moved out when I was 16 years old and
Didn't make the right decisions and then my father died of a heart attack at 51
I took it really hard and gotten a lot of trouble and went to prison for seven years. Wow. Yeah, so uh, it's a long time
It was a really long time. So I went to prison for seven years and
Through that time, you know, I I read a lot
I did a lot of work and I did a lot of physical healing and mental healing and figuring out what the hell I want to do because when you
put yourself in that situation and
You you stop and you look around and you see what the hell is really going on the people I'm around
You're better than that, you know, so I had to make a choice in life and
Mentally what I wanted to do, you know what I mean?
So I knew I want to do music and I knew I couldn't just get out and do it
So there were steps to it. So I got out and uh, I had a kid and things weren't we're going good
And they went bad and you know how it is. So um, I went to college for two years to be electrician and I was doing good
I was making great money as a commercial electrician. I just wasn't happy man. I just
something in me was just like
You know, you have to you have to go for what you want, man
So I had to I had to just I just quit it all and I just took a chance and came here and I didn't come here for music
But the ultimate goal was music
But I just had to get to a bigger place where there's bigger people that are networking bigger and bigger situations that are trying to
Do something that that makes any sense. You know, I mean, so
Absolutely, why'd you get a prison?
All right, so uh, I
My father died at 51. My mother my mother just passed away two weeks ago. So shit
Yeah, that's why I canceled what before she was alive and it was just my mother my sister and things were kind of rough and
I didn't make the best choices. I really wasn't there right in the mind and how my father died
So I talked about embalming out a little bit, you know drunk when I missed I'd missed the call and everything so um, I
Took a bad and I got involved with the wrong people. I made money and was selling things and you know selling drugs
Yeah, selling drugs man, and um, you got a lot of drug dealers on this podcast. Yeah
It was a life lesson a life lesson, you know, I mean, so yeah
Yeah, so I did that and then you know, they wanted me to tell and do all this and I couldn't do it
Man, I had a two-year-old daughter and you know, my kid's mother wanted me to you know
She's like you need to be here and I just couldn't do it. So I went and did the time man. So I had seven years, man
You know, what were you slinging?
Sound a little bit of weed and a farmer's pseudocles, you know, I mean so
No cocaine no, no, we had one guy on here who's got busted with like three like three pounds of cocaine
He missed the 90s, oh he missed the whole all the 90s even prison for 2000s
Yeah, Obama party crazy motherfucker. Oh, uh Tampa Tony. Yeah, no, I was talking about be be
We've had two guys so two guys. I watched the interview with Tampa Tony. Did you I was talking about a different guy, but yeah
Oh, yeah, he got a couple keys. That was the 80s 90s. Yeah
Damn, that's wild. So you got so so how did what did you learn from?
Being in prison for seven years like what was the biggest thing you took away from all that?
The biggest thing I learned to be honest
I learned a lot of things man, I mean if I want to be honest with you
The biggest thing I learned is
Every every action that you every action has a reaction, you know, I mean in life
You know, I mean so like I just the biggest thing I learned I thought about it
And anybody does that spending them in their circumstances like when you're sitting there and you got seven years
And you can't there's nothing you can do you got to do it
I mean you got to be a man and man the fuck up and do that shit, you know, I mean so
You know, I mean like if I wouldn't have done this, right? I wouldn't be here
If I didn't didn't do this and you beat yourself up. So it's a life lesson like
Before you make a fucking decision think about that shit because there's a there's a reaction to that, you know
I mean, and it's not always the what you want
You know, I mean was it tough when you got out like what it was a learning curve for you. Is it like the world different?
I tell you what man in seven years. I'm sure. Oh, yeah. How old were you first of all when you went in?
I was 22 years old right before I turned 23. Okay. Yeah, I got out, right?
The like three weeks before I turned 29. Okay. Yeah, I spent pretty much my whole 2020s in prison
I mean shit doesn't change man girls get pregnant girls get married
people die
new Wendy's go up, I mean
I mean the simple shit like that, but the shit on so vodka the bar scene stays the same and same people just
Different people if that makes any sense, you know, I mean so
The biggest thing that changed for me when there was like a awakening is like I went to work release and I did seven years and I
You know very in I had like two months and I was in a work release program
I could work I could ride my bike to a job and
Ride back and make money and they take pretty much all of it
But whatever, you know, you're getting back in society and I was with these group of guys and they're like, come on
Man, I just in seven years of prison. I'm like, alright. I'm like looking around
I'm scared as hell man. I'm like, I don't you know, you just feel like a bad feeling, you know, when you go through something like that
so
We go to a big intersection and you have to hit the button to cross the main highway
Yeah, yeah, it's a little just like me fuck it and they just ride them like
Man, I'm just you're waiting. I'm pressing the button. You know, I was like totally I was mind-screwed, you know
I mean, so it's it's kind of
It takes a while to adapt, you know, I mean and just not even that with I had a problem with fighting when I got out
You know what I mean? Cuz and yeah, whoops. Yeah, yeah, you know, I mean so in prison, you know, you don't talk shit
Unless you really mean it and there's consequences and that's what happens
So after it, you know, I mean like
Seven years of just doing that
I
Couldn't really go out man, you know, I mean I went back to prison. Yeah, what yeah, I went back to prison man
Yeah, I was out and I was doing good
I didn't go out one time and I was with the girl and I got married and had a son had a place
I was working doing AC probably doing 70 hours a week and I
Got into argument with her. I was is one year from me getting out of prison and
You know, it's just I decided to drink that night and I drank and she's just that that that and I was like, you know what?
Fucking done, man. I'm fucking done. You know what I mean? Like I fucking done everything
As a man and done every single fucking thing. I'm just done
I got in the car and I went for a ride and I ended up I knew a girl that bar attendant somewhere
so I went up there had a drink and
I'm just being real with you guys. Yeah, life. You know, this is what you wanted
So I went up there and I had a I had a bottle. I was doing a lot of steroids then I was working out
I was I wasn't partying. So I was really into that. I was like my getaway from everything
So I was up there and I was having a drink next thing. You know, there's a dude talking shit. He's like so loud. He's like
Like you can't hear him, but you can see his mouth and shit and I'm like
Fuck this dude's fucking trying me or not fucking get out of here, man. You know, I mean, I fucking got one night
You know, I mean one fucking night, you know, we expect some bar in Florida
So come to find out come to find out. He was with my ex. So he knew who I was
Yeah, he was with my ex and I didn't know that till later
But I told the bartender I said, hey, man, I gotta get out. I'm up to fuck this dude up, man
And she's like sad just fucking go you haven't seen you you're doing you look great. You're fucked. Just go you're drunk
I was like, all right, give me one more shot one beer. I'm out of here. She's like, no go now
I was like, no, I'm not leaving talking one more shot one more beer. I was mad, you know
Yeah, yeah, so and I was already drunk. Yeah, so I fucking I took the shot in the beer
And I fucking put the money on the table and went to walk away
And I heard he like screamed above and I was like, I gotta say something so I walked over and I was like, hey, man
I didn't make a scene or nothing. I was like, hey, man, you got a problem
You know, you want to come by side and handle like a fucking man
And that's what it is, man
And he's like all scared and shit
I just walk out and he starts screaming next thing you know the bouncers run up
They pulled me out the bouncer punches me in the mouth I get into the bouncer I go by to jail
I go by the prison for a year violated information. Yeah
So I went back to prison for a year, man and going back after doing in seven years
That's something that was just like I wasn't really doing nothing. I was just you know what I mean? I was like this shit
There's no room for error, you know, I mean like there's no room for there's no room for error, man
Like hang out and have a good time
But don't don't let your mind put you in a situation that you can't get out of and not so with the circumstances
And that night was you know, I mean so I had
That was like the real real awakening man
So I got it. Yeah. Yeah, you know, I mean so I got out and that's when I really when I got on that second time
That's when this happened when I met
Nelson I already knew Nelson, you know, I mean he came through he was doing his business and everything and
He went to prison for seven years, you know, I'm saying so I related. Yeah. Yeah
Damn lucky seven. Did you meet him in there? No, no, I met a really good friend of Jeremy, man
and just tied in through people and
He this guy right here, man
He he kind of he paid the way for me, man, you know, I mean I messed up
I messed up you two are the last two motherfuckers. I want to run into in prison
I've never been there, but I can't imagine
Yeah, man
Wow, that's wild. Are you doing music when you're locked up and stuff back then? Yeah, man. It's actually a funny story because um
No one can ever say anything bad about me in prison. I don't have money
I was I didn't fight and I was just me, you know, I mean like you got to put yourself really think about it
You're in prison. Let's take all this shit away the world your show your show all this shit
You remember you did whatever you fucking left here
We had some drinks and you killed somebody on the way home on accident right and you're going to prison for seven years
And you're a prison. What are you gonna do? What's your mindset?
Fuck it, man. I'm not gonna fucking let nobody fucking try me. I'm gonna fuck
I'm not caught. I'm not trying to cause no trial. I'm trying to do my time
But I'm not a fucking bitch and I'm gonna fucking I did you know what I mean like, you know me
So when you you go into that you go into that and you fucking you have that mindset, man
and
If you don't have that mindset and it's bad it's bad time, you know, I mean
It's just bad time and he can vouch for that, man
It's it's you have to you gotta know how to hold your own man
Yeah, and uh, it'll be strong and not be I wasn't gang bang. I wasn't doing nothing
I was just I was a tattoo man
I worked out and I walked all over and you talk about singing in prison
Yeah, I wrote songs and I brought that up to say this because the black guys at first hated me
Yeah, because I walked around I say
I'm in my head. I'm in my head because when in prison you have to learn how to get this country motherfucker
At first they do
Fuck you man. That's what I'm doing, man. You want to do my time? All right. Fuck you man
I keep doing it and after a while I say, you know what I'm gonna write a song
I told my bunkie that he had life and he said
Country boy, I think you will write a song and I was like, I'm gonna fucking write a song and I wrote a song
And then I started singing it
And then next thing you know, I'd be sitting on my bunk and I'd be writing I'd be writing music
No, like not out here with beats or anything. It's in your head. You have to just write
So uh, people go, hey
Hey, they don't get smoked and get high and shit. I'm like, hey white boy
Play that country shit for us real quick
So, you know, it's like I was like, hey man, if I can make these motherfuckers like this shit, right?
I think I got something going on. You know what I mean? So, um, because I wrote from the heart
I always write from the heart. Yeah, everybody's not gonna like like a song
And it takes me a long time to do a song only because I have so many good people behind me
Like I got luxury fours right here. He's a singer a songwriter. And I know he looks like usher. I'm not bringing a surprise
I was gonna say looks like Zato
Singer songwriter singer songwriter y'all know Kenny Moss from resonated. Yeah, we know Kenny
Nelson so I have a lot. I have a team and Pete's not here. I have a I have a big team behind me
So I do a song and I let every single one of them hear through all the stages of it
Yeah, and I might love it and they'll be like, nah
You guys are a team and we argue they'll be like, well, if you don't want to fucking hear my fucking advice
Then fucking all city, you know, because I'm like, this is fucking great and they're like, nah
So I try to take it all with all these intelligent this power powerful circle
I have around me and that's why it takes me so long
But I write the songs from my heart man and anybody that just I hate I hate man. I I hate
Anybody that says they're artists and they just jump out of album in two weeks three weeks
If a month or whatever and just put anything down. It just sounds good. You have to fucking make that shit sound good
We're writing a song last night, man
And we were we were hanging out. We were hanging out man. We were we were vibing hard. We're vibing hard
Oh, yeah, I was looking at your facebook live video where you guys were hanging out. That was it. Yeah, that was it. Yeah
Yeah, we were we were writing a song last night. We wrote a song well
Halfway through the song last night. So, uh, he's gonna branch out. He's in he's in resonated
So, uh, he's gonna do a solo song with me Kenny moans and santa anthony. We're gonna do like a little hip shit, man
Oh, yeah, so, uh, it's it's about writing from the heart man and it's not about
I don't want to say something about the fans
But if you you have to write from your heart and then
The people would just love it. You know what I mean?
Like if it's good
Are there any artists that you kind of like look up to that you kind of like model yourself after that?
Like I want to be like this dude mixed with this dude. Is there anything like that?
I can I could break that. I could I could break that down in every
in every genre
uh
classic country
Like country everybody knows garth brooks george straight
uh
Old country. Well, Jennings. Hank. When was junior?
David on the code. I love David on the code. I got the hank 3 shirt for you. Fuck. Yeah. I love hank
That's my favorite country singer. I love hank 3. I sing hank man. I love hank. I don't like that fucking pop country though
I like that fucking. Well, you got a fucking house. You gotta have some kind of fucking pop country in there, man
Like luke brine you like you're that guy that goes on the fucking on the on the internet at least as dirty as
country
What the fuck bro? I'm not even making music Danny. I'm not an internet troll. I'm not an internet troll
I just fucking love hank 3. I mean it's like my favorite country dude
But I mean respect to all the hank the third is great wheeler walker
But hank wins junior is the great the god, of course, right?
All right, so let's just put it that way right right. I was introduced to country through hank 3
That's how I kind of got like into the game. Well, of course because how old are you?
I'm 30 31 31. So you're right around the age of me man. So well, yeah, I heard hank third
But I grew up on hank was junior because my father
So I didn't even I knew hank was junior before I knew hank the third
You know, I mean, so it's hard when you it's different
I'm a fucking I'm a country poser because I you know, you came in through the no
There's no there's no country poser man. Look what I'm wearing right now. Look. Do I look like a fucking redneck?
Look, I'm wearing fucking flip-flops man
Backboard shorts. Yeah, I know I I'm not I'm not a redneck man. I'm a country boy, man
I grew up in the country. God bless my mother. She was a singer songwriter from Tennessee
My daddy my she was a redneck, right?
This is I'm gonna explain this to everybody because everybody keeps asking about the rough neck thing
I'm not a I didn't work on fucking a world race. And if you do, I have fucking respect. It's a hard fucking job
Yeah, my mom is a singer or songwriter from Tennessee. She's a redneck
My dad was a biker from illinois mutiforce appears as fisherman. He's a rough neck. He was a he was a rough writer
So I took I'm a I'm both. I'm both of them. I'm rough neck
You know, that's why I came up with my whole little rough neck thing. It's because
That's just who I am and uh, I'm not I'm not a redneck, but I'm not a city boy
I'm not a server. I'm just me man
And I grew up with country ways and I grew up on on the beach and I grew up
I just it's who I am
You know, I mean, so I don't feel like it because my heart's in country that I that I hate that because people
Stereotype if I don't got fucking I got cowboy boots and I fucking wear them and I just stop dipping because it ain't fucking good
You know, I mean and I was fucking love it. How about that?
All right
I haven't quit drinking or smoking weed because I love those two things and it's gonna be hard to let them go
You know what I mean? So
I'm calming down with it a lot. You know what I mean?
My mom just passed away a couple weeks ago when I canceled this
I wanted really wanted to be here, man, but it wasn't I wasn't mentally right. That's that's heavy, dude
I'm yeah, man. So, uh, I drank so much goddamn whiskey and moonshine and fucking beer and fucking cried and fucking
laughed and fucking sang and fucking, you know what I mean? So, uh
Yeah, man, you know, I mean I got some fucking gifts for you guys though. Really? Yeah, of course me. You think I'm gonna
Yeah, I'm a scumbag. I'm not gonna fucking bring you guys something you want me to fucking show
The only person
Yeah, nobody's ever
You guys each set the anthony shirt, man. Oh, fuck. Yeah. There you go. There you go. Hell. Yeah. There you go
So I got you guys each a set. Oh, yeah, I appreciate that one. Uh, I got you guys some reef uh reef and reel
Uh, it's a company. Oh the reef and reel dude. This is this is another thing. Look, you see me wearing all their shit. Yeah
If it's made in america, I fucking love it. Yeah, I'm america pro
So my next song is american made this fucking ac unit we got here is made in china. That's why it's broke
That's why it's fucking broke. It's a piece of shit, bro. All right
And we got two freaking fat ass americans fixing it for us
And they're fixing it though. Yeah, because they're america. They are they are so look. I got you get some beer
Some beer cosies, man
Thank you, dude. Yeah, man. Oh, yeah
So fucking uh, these guys did your company or no, dude. They're not even paying me, bro
That's the craziest thing. Look, I got a beer bottle opener. Look at that. Oh, yeah
Hell yeah, dude. I'm just saying
I got some vodka if you want some vodka
I'm good for now. Yeah, so um
I I met these guys. I was with him on the jet skis, man
And uh, we're just out ripping it up one day. I just came from
An hour across town and um, he's like, let's take the fucking jet skis out
I was like, I was in town for 10 minutes. I'm like, fuck it. Let's go
Took the jet skis out. He's like, we're riding all over the fucking place and shit and um
Next thing you know, fucking uh, we see this whole group of people with these big ass boats these girls and bikinis
And I'm like, I gotta get in the midst. That's what we gotta go. I gotta get in the mix. You know what I mean?
So, uh, I I walked over there and it was these guys and okay family owned fucking
Uh company men fucking they their shirts fit great. They're fucking how I put their hat on
It's a big thing of me with hat. I wear a lot of hats because I shave my head. You know what I mean?
So I don't want to a lot of people will say, oh, it looks kkk
He's always tattoos is another thing, you know, I got these tattoos and everything so
I wear my hats the hat feel perfect. Yeah, half it perfect
They say when I take my hat off, I look at the kkk because all these tattoos. I got a full
Whole body's tattooed man. So you got up. Do you get all your tattoos in most of them in prison? Prison, man
Really? Wow prison. Yeah, I mean, that's the best way to get them, right? He puts a store behind it. Okay
I didn't get this. There's some guy drunk fucking not wanting to do the tattoo. This is guy trying to live
And he puts on my body. Yeah, it wasn't bullshit art man. He put some good shit on me. Hell. Yeah
That's what's up. You ever thought about like collabing with like a like a hip-hop artist or anything like some old town road shit
Old town road. What do you think of that song? I fucking love it. Okay
I like it too. I think you I you should fucking like it. What do you think about what do you think about lil hank?
The little yodel boy the walmart yodel kid. I couldn't even tell you the fuck that really
I wish you could pull it out. I do. I do. Yeah, I wish you'd do you should you didn't have a fucking Kenny
You know who he is talking about the guy who doesn't say actual words
He was the kid he was yodeling in walmart
He made the viral video about and then he was in fucking Coachella. You know what I think about that good for him
It's over with what's he gonna do next? I don't know
Yeah
Thank you. Thank you for entertaining me for 30 seconds of my life. Well, then fuck
I don't follow people. Yeah, I mean just fucking it's it's it's a fucking it's
It's realism, man. Fucking do you want to fight?
You know people are getting into the music industry. I thought it was a fucking so easy
And I was so blind to this shit, man
And I went through a lot of fucking trials and tribes and fucking dumb shit, man
I had this dude fucking literally
He was investing in me give me 500 to a thousand dollars a week cash to live
Fucking paid for a house for six months paid for my everything
Just because he believed in me because first of all, I want to tell any artist that watches this
He'd be believing yourself enough
You can make somebody believing you put money into you meet the whole world believe and that's fucking truth
Positivity man lost it out there. It's the fuck. It's facts. It's facts of life
All right, so if you believe in that shit and you live that shit and you really dedicate yourself to that shit
It will fucking it will manifest for you, man. I promise you that that's a little knowledge
I want a job for you, man. Oh, yeah, but I met this fucking dude right here, man, and um
He did all that for me and uh, you know about what four four months into it
You know, I'm getting I I didn't think it was gonna go that fast. Yeah, no one does it kind of has blown up pretty fast
So, uh, so what in a couple months you're oh, dude, it's you know, I just I got the perfect
I got the perfect uh
People around me right now that um that have me to a point where
um
Everybody's knowledgeable in their own degree. You see what I'm saying? We have a perfect circle
We were talking about this when you have a when you have a perfect circle where everybody just does their own
Yeah, and their role things work like an old machine
You know what I mean? So when you don't have that you're you're overworking yourself and you're stressing yourself out and you're not getting productivity
As much done as it could be you know what I mean?
So you hurt and you lack in errors where you have a strong team and things are going right and everybody's not fucking up
People are gonna fuck up, but you keep each other up. You're you're that's why I in the beginning
I just I jumped so fast and I made a lot of
Bad decisions that I I'm glad I made them and we talked about this because if I would have made them
Uh later in the game, it would have fucked me up. It would have hurt me
Yeah, because I made them so early in the game. I mean I fucked up
Yeah, I was going out fucking spending three three hundred dollars a night at a bar and ended up in fucking
Who the fuck knows where with fucking females and fucking, you know, I mean, I was just fucking
I was like, hey, but I would always show up to my music. Yeah, but people knew and they were like, hey
You fucking look like shit. Yeah, you're here. Yeah, let's fucking you know, I mean like what the fuck have you been doing, bro?
Like are you fucking do you want this or you want to fucking party and
Mess around with girls, bro. And I'm like, no just I'm here
And I just kept going and I fucked up so much that this guy picked me up
I went to his house
And he told me not to I'm not gonna need her name because it's gonna fucking cause a lot of shit. But uh, this is
girl and uh
and um
He told me not to you know, just be with her that night and do my thing and I didn't I didn't listen, bro
You know, and I just kept I was I was still doing my music and I brought her around next thing. You know, she's around
He gets wind up and he's like, oh, yeah. Yeah, come over to the crib man. Come over to the house
All nonchalizes. Why fuck with this dude, man? Because he's real. Yeah, so he pulls me over. We're drinking. We're hanging out
We're doing all this shit, man. So he's like, hey, man
He's got a AMG fucking rent tech all hooked up fucking scariest car been in man almost killed me on fucking in clear water
Well, the fuck man
760 or what I don't even know what the fucking is man. Fucking scary ass fucking car, man
You know, I mean, so he's like getting the car, man. Just fuck just come with me. I'm like, all right
I get in the car. I got the beer. I'm like, hell. Yeah, bro. I'm about to go do this show. He goes
He slams on the fucking brakes. I'm gonna slap my head on the fucking thing. He's like, you think this shit's fucking sweet, bro
I'm like
what
What what the fuck's going on? He's like, well, you think it's sweet. I'm giving you money. I'm doing this
I'm paving your fucking career. You got talent. You're over here. You don't want to fuck
You think you're gonna spend my money just go hang the fuck out. He checked me and left me right there
I still love him. I still love him and I love him and I respect him to this day because that's what I needed
You know what I mean? Because I was fucking
You got to think when you when you come from nothing man and fucking
And and and do something it goes so fast
You kind of get caught up in that vibe of that that stream of just like of things going on and everything and it's not
It's not good, man, you know, I mean because you're just gonna ruin your career
Either if you're drinking too much you're partying too much spending too much money
You're spending too much on my own women not enough time on music whatever the fuck it is
man
I'm you know what I mean? So he checked me on that and it was fucking
I was a and I didn't even the way he checked me was so masculine like
You know it said it was like some real shit and I was like, all right, he's for real
He's obviously for real. You know what I mean? I don't think he's playing
So, uh, damn, I'm fucking up for him to be this serious and you know what I mean?
And I I have not stopped talking to him for any reason
And anytime he flips out on me like that. I fucking
I I know there's a reason behind it. You know what I mean? So
I'm not perfect. You're not perfect. Nobody in his fucking room is perfect, man
And uh, doing what I'm doing and doing even which I respect you guys man. Yeah, uh, shout out to you guys
What two two hundred and twenty thousand subscribers or something like that to 27 something like that. I look I look man
Yeah, it's a big shout out right there. Nothing quick though. It was a guy. It took for taking his years
Okay, yeah
No, what I'm saying right now
Hey, I took it took learning and doing things and you know, I mean Kenny told me last night. He said uh
Seth man
People ask me all the time. I've been a musician forever. I toured nationally everywhere
You're my manager and you live the same life as me
Our life is like a pinball machine
Explain how did you meet? How did you guys meet Kenny? I mean, we know
No, new Kenny since high school when you're like emo band
Hey with Mikey with Mikey three times fast. I think it's called
Um, how did we meet actually, uh, a buddy I went to high school with
I don't think you guys know him. I asked you before but uh
Naren Connors, uh, brother
Um, one of the uh team members. I guess you could call him
Um, he hit me up on facebook and was like, yo man, I got this
I got a buddy of mine
Who's um a country artist and I want to write some some music we were trying to he's moving over here
So I thought about you. So I was like, okay, cool. Yeah, man bring him over. I got a bunch of sessions open
I've been doing a lot of co-writes. So
He came over actually I usually try to
I try to listen to the music try to figure out what the vibe is a little bit and try to merge my
You know fingerprint on it. Yeah with what he's trying to go for and I had like this song written
Like halfway written and Seth came over one night. You know, he's rowdy as I mean, I wasn't I didn't know
I was getting into you know, I mean because I never worked with a
Well, you should I sound rowdy, bro. Oh, get the fuck out of here
A little bit. So I try to keep him in line. I'm like, I was just telling them on the yeah, you know
Like we're the yin and the yang. I'm you guys got a completely separate audience
I mean, you're like resonated is like reggae pop, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's like pop reggae stuff
But I mean I write with soul artists. I write with r&b
Rock yeah, whatever
Anyways, he comes over. I met him that night
At my house. We had a session and we just wrote a banger song and it was just
On from there. He's he was coming over to actually just write with me. He's like, bro
Fucking how'd you do this, bro? You you you're fucking you're the man. You could be my manager, man
I'm like, well, I don't know. Maybe, you know, like I'm thinking of my head. I'm like this is just like kind of
Right, you know
You meet a lot of people you write with you hang out with you know, you create something
And you create something you get like into that shit
Into that like it like I can't explain it unless you know, you're like how you guys are into this
You know, you guys you guys are into that shit. So we I knew that it was like something good
I didn't even really listen to any of the like look at the views and stuff like that. I listened to the songs
I wasn't looking at it that way. I was just looking at could I vibe with this, you know, and uh
We vibed first night. We moved on to another song
and uh
All of a sudden, you know, three months later, he's living at my house. He's living in the studio. Yeah, and uh
In the studio in the studio. So we do it. So we uh, we've got to spend a lot of time together and uh, he's definitely, you know
He's got a lot of motivation. I see that, you know, like he was saying earlier
You get people to believe in you like I know the feeling as an artist
You know, I've been in this game for a long ass time and I've realized that my strong point is writing, you know
I love traveling. I've seen I've been to tons of places played a lot of awesome venues play with tons of awesome bands and stuff
But my real passion is just writing music, you know, so
That came along and then I no doorbells
Yeah, I had a bunch of buddies who jammed and I know tons of musicians because you know, I do the jams and stuff
Everyone lose jams funk jams, you know reggae jams, whatever. So I know tons of musicians. He's like, yo, I'm moving
I you know, I need a band. I want to really do this
I was like, so you're not you know, not trying to just put out music on your own
You really want to be a you know have a band so I
I connected with a band they rehearsed at my house. We you know, I don't even think we tried out
Anybody I think it was the first guys. I was like, these are the guys. I don't win. They're rough, man. I went there. I was like, uh
Yeah, so they you know, they spoke to bowl and I was like, hey, what's up guys
We're gonna fucking play this music. He showed up late
Because that's how you do it. You know, you gotta show up late, but
no, they uh
They they vibed it there, you know, they practice all you know at the crib and at the studio and uh
And then you know, he's like I'm he was working in spring hill or you know with nelson, right?
Working with you. I was working in spring hill. I was him before. Okay. Okay. Okay. So
Yeah, so then he moved in and we just you know and vibing got him an agent. So now he's booking shows. He's got
Yeah, we just confirmed like yeah, shout out to uh, Georgia here in Georgia. We're going to Georgia
June and June June 14th and 15th. I'll be in statesboro in savannah, Georgia. Nice. Um,
We're gonna be in Daytona stewart florida california
Uh, we're going all over man. So yeah, so this year is going to be a fucking fun ass year, man
You know, I mean, I've been telling people on facebook for like fucking eight months. I'm like, I'm coming out of florida
I'm coming
Are you guys like an album or anything right? What are you guys working on? Oh, yeah
That was like a bunch of singles or how does it work? You guys just like put together what your singles?
I feel like we had a different mindset at first. I think set needs an album
You know, I mean, yeah, there's a lot of good hype on the singles and stuff
But um, it doesn't have to be anything like super long or anything, but I think an album be easy to
Knock out pretty ten songs. You know, just like
Working on an album right now. We already got probably half of it done. Yeah, we got half the album done
So, I mean literally in this next like three weeks. We're probably gonna be sitting there
um
With the guitar jamming out me and him and cranking out the rest of these songs and then um
We're make some demos. I'll go to orlando and mike steve
The drum with the lax so like you guys remember smoke signals resonator sativa fever on that. Yeah, so
That producer he's uh now the drummer for the lax
You know the lax i've heard of them. Um, who's the lax mike steve the lax their country country rappers
Okay, yeah, they're really blowing up right now. And I just kind of utilized my connections
Right. Do I know any country?
Right, you know, like
Maybe you know and are you just having the guitar and on the the music?
No, no, I just write I just write and who's playing is their guitar. There's guitar. Yeah, I gotta they're not here right now
They're all sitting musicians. Okay. I got you. I got you like hired on the spot pretty much for most of the stuff
The stuff that I did with seth. Um, I did guitar on um, but
It's it's a lot of collaboration and back and forth and stuff like that
So you guys are all there together at the same time just like
No, no, like we'll write a song together and then we'll it'll
Maybe be him and someone else in the room next time and then we'll share mixes and stuff like that
Okay, so everybody's happy kind of like we was saying earlier and you know just like
Get it where it needs to be and uh, and that's what I'm that's what I do
You know, I mean like that's where I come in, you know, like I I I work with a lot of different pop artists and
Not necessarily country but now that I've dipped into it. I've developed a ton of relationships with people
And uh, it really just it really just comes down to
Making the best song and if it if it's not what these guys
Maybe you could write a great song, but it's not produced right, you know
I mean, so there's different different elements to it
You get write a great song on guitar and then take it to this producer
Yeah, who cost you all this or doesn't cost you that and you get what you're not really expecting
So it's kind of like uh
The fact is make a fucking song like old town road
I mean just fucking make some simple stupid
Right. Yeah, it's fucking sad to say man. It's really fucking sad to say
That's what catches on. I mean, you you know what I'm saying
It's sad
No, if anybody can vouch for this
The man sitting in the middle of the fucking couch will fucking vouch for this and he gets so angry
Why haven't us three done a song together? Yeah, we should do it. We should do a song together
I'm trying to bring him a little bit out of like soul kind of r&b country
I don't do so when all but you know what last night he was doing it and then he
He could do it. I could do it playing down a little bit. I mean, I could do it, but fucking uh
Old town road
Is just think about it. It's so fucking simple and basic
But you know what people want people want something catchy
Yeah
And something they don't hear a whole bunch of words and they can sing along to another word
So when they're in their fucking car, they can jam the fuck out or when they hear they're like, oh, shit
And they fucking jam out this fucking dumbass ball where they're drinking margaritas. What the fuck you're at
You know, you eat taco tuesday. I don't give a fuck wherever you're at
You know, I mean, yeah
Who gives a fuck you hear that song you get hype because you know the words is catchy beat
It's simple music and that's what's selling bro
It's sad to fucking say like people like anybody that does music. It's like it's selling out fucking
You know what man
I wrote a song I'm in it for the money
Because everybody's fucking talking about I'm in it for the fans. I'm doing I'm doing this
I'm doing that. You know what? I'm not going to name the artist
But I've hit up a lot of artists man that are in the game and I talk to them
I'm gonna say hey man. Look what I'm doing. Look at my views. Look what I'm doing. I'm only hearing this shit, man
Watch what I do man. I want to do a song with you. I like your music and
75 percent of them come back with all right. I'm down, but you know, I don't do features for free
So you're not in it for the fans. You're not in it for the love of music. You're not in it for that
So I made a song about I'm in a photo money
I'm in a photo girls
I'm gonna keep it real. I'm gonna keep it real like
What are you in it for? You're in it for that motherfucking money
And you're in it for the women and the fucking fame
I don't really give a fuck about the money to fame anything. I want to live a good life
I don't want to have to hurt for anything and let's just be real nobody does
You know what I mean? I don't want to be like hey fuck man. I'm worried. I don't want to stress about no bill
I just want to sing my music man and make people
Relate to it and it's nothing. It's no high I've ever been on
Like being on a stage man
And singing a song and and and singing people just now you fork stage is happiness, man
And just fucking loving it man. That just it brings a high to me that just motivates me. Fuck the money. Fuck all this shit
And I love the money. I'm in it for the money. All right. That's
Fuck you. You know, I'm saying right. Yeah, you come to your job for free. No, you don't okay then. That's my job
All right, I need to fucking get paid. All right
So well, I mean, I love the fans man. I and it's a high that fucking
Bring such joy to me man that I never felt my life man. I've been through a lot of fucking shit, man
And it just does I get excited about it. This fucking guy
Everybody in this fucking besides him this as Sean's brother. He hasn't met me that much
Everyone every single person in this room has probably hated me and loved me at the same time. I promise you
I'm a full fledged character. I really am a full fledged character
People don't know how to react. I mean, they're like, who the fuck is this?
I just told him today that we should do some kind of cartoon with all his personalities
I'm I'm telling you man. Like I know a couple guys on youtube. Yes. I know a couple guys, right? Yeah
I fucking I'm in it for the money
Oh, yeah
Yeah, you could do it
Hey, so what was the first show like you haven't been doing shows too long, right?
Oh, yeah, man. I just started doing shows last year, man. So what was your first one?
My first one's ogachobi
stampede
and
For a night that they had nobody there
We had a pretty good turnout and it was my first show when I played with the band
Not my band, but the band that I record my music with and they were like
This is your first fucking show. Are you nervous? No, I didn't tell him that. Yeah
I just fucking did the fucking show
I drink a lot. I drink like
Two shots of jamison about three blood lights. I don't want to kill that fucking shit. Yeah
You know, yeah, I fucking I didn't tell him that
Yeah, okay, because if you do that, then you're fucking you're you're putting down in the fucking artist, you know
I mean like oh, fuck now they're worried about if I'm gonna fucking be on cue that no, don't tell him that
I'm so professional. They're like, they think I'm a seasoned vet motherfucker. You know, I go up there and do my motherfucking thing
You know, I mean like fuck it, you know, I mean, so I went up there and fucking I sang that shit and I
Clapped all her hands. I gave me each money and I was like, hey, this is my first show. They're like, this is your first fucking show
Awesome. Yeah, they're like, what the fuck and I was like, yeah, man, this is this is my first show
Yeah, they're like, what the fuck man
And uh, the next show was a fucking blank. It was fucking horrible. Yeah, people got fired. It was horrible. I almost lost an investor
Uh
It was fucking, you know, but you got to do that
You have to do that as being an artist, man
If you don't have a story to tell this is this is how I look at it in my life anytime I get down on myself
I'm a positive thinker man
And I just say even when I'm in the rut and I'm in the rut and I don't think I can get out
I fucking think it's some positive shit. I get myself out man because uh, I think about it like this
If there was no story to tell on the way to the top to make a music
You're not fucking interesting to me. Yeah, you know, I mean if this is it was just handed to you like, hey
We see this shiny rock if you hold this rock
You're on the radio and I just hand it to you and you hold it. You're gonna be like you're on the radio
Who the fuck are you?
You know, I mean like I don't give a fuck about you and your glasses. Don't worry. Sweater. You're glowing rock
I don't fucking care. You know, I mean like being honest, you know, I'm so good to go through that shit, man
You get to fucking sleep on couches and eat rom and fucking who was after fucking prison
And that's ridiculous to get where you're going and fucking do things and fucking be a mess and fucking be all over the place
And that's what you have to do, man
You know, I mean like a lot of people every single person that I've noticed and I and I research everybody
I'm a youtube stalker, man
I I research people that are successful and then I go outside of youtube and I research them and
Every single person that has been successful with music acting
Uh, anything has either known somebody
And got them the fucking there or they fucking went through the ringer, man
And they didn't quit because you know what no matter how many times you fail
You keep going. You see what I'm saying? And the motherfucker that just quit
Is you're you're working on you're you're working when you're not nothing
I don't want to say that because you will take that the wrong way if you're working on a five and you have to do that
Not what you were trying to do. I'm not trying to do that
I don't want to go on vacation once a month and fucking be in work
I paid a week to week paycheck and pay my mortgage and fucking goddamn the fucking radio broken the fucking truck, babe
Fuck, you know, I'm saying like fucking all this dumb shit. I don't want to do that
I have potential to do something different
So I have to fail fail fail fail fail fail and I have been not feeling but I'm gonna fail
I'm gonna fail something's gonna happen and I'm gonna fail
But it's not gonna fucking set me nowhere
I'm not gonna get upset because I always when I fail I boost up and I learn all the mistakes
And I don't make the mistakes no more and I fucking go forward. Well, that's what it's about
That's that's life man. It's energy. You know, I'm saying like some shit that fucking a lot of people don't get
you know, I mean like it's
It's serious shit, man. Like what's been the key to your success so far though?
Because you're you're like blowing up now. You're doing really well. So what are you even doing? It's working
Like uh, to be honest with you man keeping positive people around me, man
You know, I mean like all these dumb sayings that people that people
Uh, you hear throughout growing up and birds of a flag are fucked together. You know, I'm saying like it's truth
Fuck together
It's a
It's a vodka flock fuck tomato tomato birds or a feather flock together. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so
um
You know, it's it's use that as an analogy of
Positive people and bad people everybody everybody in this room has negative people in their fucking life either
It's a family member a homeboy anything man
And I don't give a fuck who you are how big you are how small you are you have that you have positive people and negative people
If you don't have that much positive people in your life
Well, then fuck you be by yourself until you find more positive fucking people and stay on the right track
Yeah, you know I'm saying because if you go back because it's easy to go to negative people, man
I'm telling you from life experience, man
It's very easy man to do dumb shit to make money or hang out and just get in trouble, man
You know, I mean that's deferring me from where the fuck I'm going with anybody, man
And and I preach that because I believe that so much and take it from the guy that fucks up a lot, man
Yeah, take it from a guy that fucks up more than you fucking know
I don't let it be seen because I have an image to keep
I don't let my fucking personal shit when I fuck up. Well, who would you know what I mean? I fuck up
You know what I mean? But guess what?
I'm gonna take my horse to a whole town road. I'm gonna ride till I can't no more
I'm gonna take my horse. I'm gonna get back on that road, man. I'm gonna keep going bro. I'm trying to tell you
I'm not I'm not stopping
So you got the drive you yeah, you got to have that. What the fuck are you doing? Yeah, what are you doing?
Yeah, what are you doing a little bit of confidence a little bit of driving a little bit of vodka
That's all you need, man. Usually it's whiskey, but
Oh, really? It's fucking guy over here. You know, I'm trying to quit drinking
So why are your videos blowing up so much like your music videos? Oh fucking going crazy. What was that like when you started?
What the fuck you mean?
I should ain't blowing up like that. No, so uh, no, um, I got the best uh
Marketing guy in Florida, man, and I was blessed like back to what I was saying with the perfect circle, man
It's fucking these fucking this fucking guys. He's on point, man. So, uh,
She's got a good team. Yeah, I have a good team, man
You know, I mean that's what when I went to this and I took it serious, man
I I had us take a step back and
You know, I've been the more flawed guy out of the circle than anybody, you know what I mean?
So if that's the situation, that's a good thing. Yeah, you straighten yourself up and
Correct the little things here and there, but you know what I'm saying? So it's just you know me with
um
Just me dealing my own shit and fucking uh, I
You don't understand man. This thing has literally came overnight. You know what I mean? So
Me just doing music and even doing this shit right here
Hand me in my manager him in my life these people in my life. This is came like uh overnight. So um, you know
I I don't stop thinking. I'm a thinker. So I'm thinking thinking thinking thinking, but I'm not so much shit is going on
I'm it's almost like I'm not thinking if that makes any sense. Like I'm just like kind of like rolling with it
You know, I'm like, I gotta go here. I gotta go here. I gotta do this. I got so much shit
So, uh, I got off track a lot and did a lot of stupid shit made not stupid decisions, but uh,
Not the correct decisions and it fucked up things, but it was supposed to happen, man
And that's what I believe man your phone the place it is it is I mean
Things are supposed to fuck up for a reason. There's always doors opening in life. You know, I'm saying that it
People aren't awoke to nothing people all probably think I'm crazy for talking like this, but I'm so I'm not crazy
You know what I mean?
So I just used it in my life and I know it works doors opening your life, man
And if you don't take that door don't get discouraged and go back to the bullshit because there's always gonna be a door opening
You know, I mean like
You have to take the door and that door at least one other door, man
And it's what you put into it is what you're gonna receive
So, you know what I mean?
So I know what I'm fucking up and I know what I'm drinking too much
I'm not concentrating enough and and it weighs on my conscience because I've trained myself to do that
You know, I mean and once you put yourself into that element, man to just to doing something
I don't give a fuck what you want to do if you want to build that I go keep going back to this fucking stupid as glowing rock
Which I like this rock. I'm gonna take this rock. I'm gonna take the rock
If I wanted to build this fucking rock and I said I would just say I like the rock
I'll be like a night like
So if I want to build this rock, yeah, all right
Literally think about this with your mind
I want to build this rock. I have an idea with a glowing fucking rock
And I want to build this and it's gonna cost me fucking 233 or fucking 433 to fucking make it
And it's and you do all this and and and you put your mind to it. You're gonna fail
That's fucking life
You're gonna fucking fail
But guess what if you reconstruct it and you do it fucking right?
You will not fail and I'm not saying how fast
Maybe maybe he needs a fucking lightbulb Sean
You know what I'm saying? That's the cheaper way, right?
I might have the led in there. Fuck that led or putting a regular light bulb in that bitch, bro
You know what I mean? Like it's just fucking life, dude. You know what I mean?
So I do music so I fucking I fail and I fucking learn I'm like fuck
He can't even deal with me, bro. I'm telling I'm trying to tell you I wish I had a gopro
This guy right here. He's like with him
This guy's like right here. He's like, I can't fucking deal with this dude, man
I mean like I can't you're too all over the place Seth and I'm like, I just got to figure it out
So like you you hit it
Obviously you've hit like a certain level like a pretty high level so far
Like you've started to take off online if people are noticing you so like what what like in a certain time frame
Whatever that may be like what's like the next that what's the next level that you want to hit
That you have like insight right now. That's a bit. That's a big question man to me personally
um
I say true man. So I'm going to say true to the people that it's you know, this is fucked up man
Because the music industry man is so political and people don't even fucking realize it man
You know, I mean like there's so much things that go into it
that
You don't realize until you do music man on a big scale you can fucking release a song put on
I mean like career wise like what's the next level of career wise money wise like like with the top, bro
Yeah, I mean, well, you gotta take it step by step though, right? You just want to shoot straight to the top or
It's not going to happen that way because I'm a realistic dude. Yeah, right. Let's cut the bullshit man
This dude's gotta like so we just got this agent
I think developing like true like organic fans seeing him live. Yeah, because you know, I mean it was kind of a one-on-one night like
Like uh, almost what do you call influencer situation in a way?
um
But taking those people figure out where those people are and tour into those areas and like right, right?
I think that just
I think like that
That's like gaining real people
Right real to like have seen you that's not gonna pay to come to your show. That's step one step one is to do this
I'm already doing get on some tours with some bigger artists
Get so maybe do some features with some bigger artists. What kind of features you guys want to do?
What kind of artist do you want to work with? Ah, like if you could pick three right now pick two two
Yeah, pick two any anybody any artist?
Ryan up church walker haze
no dealer walker ryan up church
And taylor ray holbrook
I don't know any of those guys are me neither. That's the two that's the two people that I that I personally
Yeah, would feel personal
Satisfaction music wise okay and personal gain. Have you ever have your financial out? You know, I mean no, I will you know
I mean, I will right now. I have so much shit going on man. You know, there's a time and place for everything, man
Yeah, you know, I mean for sure if you step in too soon. Yeah
You got time the whole thing man. You know I'm saying you got a feel in your body when it's like
It's like it's a well. It's a fine
Well way old machine man like it really is man. You'll know when things are just moving and you'll see it
You'll see it and you'll be like it's time
Bam and you reach out. You know, I mean so
um
I already got a couple artists. I'm not gonna name a man
I'm gonna do some features with man and they say they want to do them
But they're on tour and they're doing this and doing that and I talk to them
So, uh, you know, if they we do we do it if not
Keep whatever, you know, I mean, there's a lot of there's a lot of big up-and-coming music
Musicians around this area like in this dude stp is very fucking hard for fucking
So many it's crazy. He is like a reggae capital man. Yeah, it's reggae vibes
Yeah, a lot of hip-hop a lot of rap hip-hop reggae like, you know, I mean we got ruga rye
We got fucking yeah, well, he's clear water luxury for me. He's he's a
He did do a song with a who's that one dude that did the big tube party on a
Oh, yeah, forge on a blow
Oh, yeah, we did some videos with him. I did a song with him. There's this other kid rod wave. He's blowing up around here. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, we did some videos with those dudes. Those are rod and glock nine. Yeah. Yeah
I'm not really into the rap thing. Yeah, man. Yeah, you gotta all rap just all rap
Just did your towing. Yeah, it's got to be like a little you have a little like a rap hip-hop feel to your music
Yeah, well, I mean you changed the uh the country twang a little bit and put a rap beat behind
That's what we just did last night a little bit. Oh, yeah, we did a little bit last time
I told I told him last time I was like, I want to fucking I want to rap a little bit, man
You know, I mean, so
Yeah, you just have fun with it, man, you know people
I'm gonna talk to on the internet people talk to you on the internet no matter what. Oh, yeah, they roast off
So fucking yeah, we'll fuck them fuck them, bro. You know what? Oh, we're gonna get we're gonna get fucking
Ethered on this video, right? I fucking love it. Yeah, we do every time we get a video. I hope they talk fucking shit
Fucking stick it up their ass, man
If you're talking about you doing something, it's good
Yeah, fuck the internet trolls
No, we love the internet trolls. You got a little you got a lot. You can't fight hate with hate
If you don't love them, man, then you fucking don't love the game because the game is part of hate
Exactly. It really is man. You know what I mean? So when I this I when I first started doing it
I fucking was so a bro. Listen. I'm trying to tell you
I haven't told a lot since I've been on this fucking goddamn interview
Sleep my goddamn phone on my chest, man. And when that shit buzz
I wake up in the middle of the night a bad comment
I can't eat it. What when I first started because I was so I'm so passionate about what the fuck
No, but what I do, you know, I mean, so I was like, what the fucker? I was like
If you knew like because I put no one knows it's just a dumb
I had to take care of the
Stalkers when can I say about a few months ago? You were you went to jail again a couple
Yeah, I went to jail
We had some we had some crazies following and I'm like answering back these girls and they're
They're pissed at you replying like you just be like, thanks for hitting up the page
but they one girl was like
Well, it was pretty funny. He's got a mega fan. I'm not gonna say her name. You got a few you got a few mega
I think I know who you're you know who I'm talking about. Yeah, we're gonna go there. But anyways
She was
So anyways, she's she's at any show that he's gonna do and which hasn't been that many yet
We're just starting to book shows, you know
And she's at the show and there's this other fan girl there and that's another one you probably know and
She's like hits hits up the page hits up the page like three days after this
This festival or fair you did like three shows. It was like three days of shows and uh, she's like
Yo, Seth, I've lost all respect for you. You I tried to take a picture with you and that girl
Came up in the middle of it and like
Did it on purpose? I know for sure. So I'm not following you anymore
So I was like, okay. I'm not gonna answer that right the next thing she hits back
She's like she's like, look, I'm not saying that I'm totally not gonna follow you
But
Do you have any more extra large shirts of yours from the show?
And I'm just sitting there watching it happen. I mean she went on I could go on and on
But she went on and on talking to herself and then once she got positive about I was like, thanks so much
You know, as she was like cool. I look forward to the next
Yeah, that gives the idea. There's some all the whole rollercoaster. Oh, it was that
You know, I do a lot of social media and I was like, I'll take over it. You know, I didn't really expect
I didn't know I was getting into yeah, that's like, yeah
You know, you got a few comments here and there, you know, whatever
But it just started blowing up and like it was it was pretty funny resonating. It's not pulling in those fans
Oh, yeah, we are actually we got some country fans actually a new single. We just
Stalker fans. Oh, we got some stalker fans. Yeah. Do you more like weird stoner hippies? But yeah, this is the best
But yeah, it's uh, it's pretty interesting watching that fold out, you know, yeah, man
It was crazy, man. I went to jail just a few months ago. Yeah, what the fuck you go to jail for nobody
Nobody's talking about like the same thing. No, let's see. Nobody positive talk. Oh, it is positive. Check this out. Check this out
Fucking Danny's over here trying to put some negative
This is what I just told him today. He goes, man, I got a fucking work. I got to do this. He's like, I don't even care
I'll drive there. I'm like, Seth
What'd you just go to jail for?
I don't give a fuck. I gotta make it happen. Like, is that really worth it?
Is that really worth all that shit? You know what I mean? No, like, so like, you know, you're talking about action
I have my license. There's the action. Oh, I'm so busy, man. I don't have time and this is the truth
I don't have to I have to do a fucking class, man
And I don't have time and everything I'm doing to go sit somewhere for fucking 24 hours, man
Two days, man and take this class and I'm gonna have to take it, you know, I mean, but I don't drive
Yeah, I don't drive no worry, you know, I mean, so
I I do what I got to do. I don't drive
So, you know, I went to jail because I fucking didn't have the license
I had the class and um, I left the studio and I was
Way across town, man, and I was in somebody's car and I was going to do my thing and
Fucking caught pulls me over, man. I'm like fucking bitch, man
I got my set Anthony shirt on us to the fucking photos. I'm like, all right. I'm gonna play it up to that, man
Fucking, you know, I mean, I'm not fucking
I mean, what the fuck
I like the real cops, but there's not many of y'all. All right. Yeah. All right. So
I love you guys, but fuck
So, uh, he pulls me over
I pull into the 7-11. I'm like, fuck, man. I open the door. I just put my fucking foot right on the door
I'm like, this is gonna go bad. I already know it, man. So he pulls up. He's like, hey license registration. I'm like, all right
Uh, fuck. I left my wallet, bro. He's I'm gonna get a pen and pad. I'll be right back. I'm like, all right
I'm like it buy it it buyed me time. You know what I mean? It bought me time where I could just
Think about what the fuck I want to do. So he came back never call a cop, bro
I did I did
Part of it. I did too. I can't help it. I call everybody
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I told him I was like, bro listen, man fucking
I did I swear to god. I I I told him he came back with a pad. We've all done it and he started writing my name. I was like s
e
I was like, bro, let's I'm just gonna be real with you, man. I was like
Look, dude, I gotta take a I gotta take a class. I was like, um, I I fucking don't have my license
I gotta take a class. I was like, so, you know, fucking
That's what it is. You can look me up on the internet. I'm like church to call and I don't draw
It's not drinking. I'm not nothing. Look season to the name. Look it up, man. I'm about to go on shows
I got shit going on. Can I have somebody come pick me up? You know, I mean, he's like
Because you're real me. I'm gonna let you go. I was like bet bro. I was like, so I park it right there. He's like
No, no, no, no, no, I'm still I'm still I'm resting you on paper, man. I was like, what I was like, come on, man
Fucking they took me end up taking me to jail, man
So I went to jail for a couple weeks, man
And um, nobody knew nobody ever even knew that this the first time anybody's ever known that, you know
I mean it's because everybody thought I was just out doing I had the video dropping still
Who's the first person you called when you got locked up?
Kenny no comment no comment
No comment. All right, we don't have to say her name. Yeah
The girl from the comment
So uh, yeah, man. Oh, shit. That's why we call him the jail. He's looking for you
Oh, she don't like me
She friend requests to me. I didn't we need to get the uh, the st. Pete crowd up up on the country vibe for hell. Yeah, we do
We do. Yeah, there's not much country going around. We're doing what we're doing
You gotta block parties, right? Can we get them on a fucking block party at mad beach party?
Well, I've been talking to um
A g which is uh, you know, they do buyers for like janice and stuff
We're talking about doing a summer show at janice for seth
So yeah, that'd be cool. We had one offer, but I think we were already doing something. So we just uh,
Kind of waiting for that to come we're using the same uh
The same buyers for resonated since we already got that relationship. I kind of like just get him the same. Yeah, you know, I honestly I
Buyers like uh, I don't know what you mean by like talent buyers, you know, like so basically like what do you have a show like
You have like somebody who like investors basically talent buyers
So a bit like if you have if you want to put on a show and cost, I don't know
Yeah, you gotta rent a place. Yeah, you run the place out. You're a promoter
I mean it's a promoter like they like to be called talent buyers and promoters like the shun name
I feel like these days, but like, but yeah, there's not in the in the town buyers by the talent
They agree to a deal and then whatever they make on that deal they walk away with so in a small nutshell
Um, but yeah, we're looking at a summer summer late late summer date at janice
So we're gonna be doing something in st. Pete. So let's get it. Oh, yeah
Let's get it. It's gonna be right. It's fun. Oh, man. So when you're gonna release the next one's the next uh tracks coming out, dude, uh
Yeah options, I think I got options man. I
Think that people expect that uh, I have to release one here and uh, probably about two weeks
So I like to keep I like to keep it relevant
So I feel like that's a lot of a lot of a lot. It has to do with a lot of it's all about content
Yeah, people are following me man because I I steadily put every six weeks. I put on a new video
You know, I mean, so I'll do a song do a video do a song every six weeks and it buys me time
To make more music and it's like a weird balance between
There's there's there's really no there's really no, uh
Way to do music, man. If that makes any sense, man, you just fucking do it like people ask me like people that are
There's no like like like proven strategy as far as releasing content. No, there's not man
There's not what it is is you have to just fucking be the best that you can be and fucking just keep releasing content
Unless you're Gucci, man, then you can be locked up if you're Gucci, man
Then you can just do whatever you have clones and make music and the clones making music and fucking releasing releasing albums every fucking week
It doesn't matter. Yeah, I don't even know if it's Gucci anymore, but we're still rocking it, right? Yeah
It's definitely not him anymore. Yeah, fuck
Cool. So where can people like follow you like people that are watching this working there like find out
Hey, man, you guys can follow me at uh on going youtube set the anthony
Um, you can go on facebook set the anthony cm. You can go on instagram set anthony cm
Um, don't follow me on snapchat because I really don't go on there, man
And I think it's kind of lame, but I still do it when
Stupid shit happens, man. I feel like the stupid things happen. You put it on snapchat. Yeah, it's not professional
So, uh, it's kind of a personal dumb shit. I do. Um, but yeah set anthony.net
You could purchase a hat shirts beach house phone cases fucking everything
Book back book bags fucking the tote bags fucking whatever, you know, I mean X was badass shirt
Yeah, man, that's uh, that's what we just made for the last show. Uh, we have all different kinds
We have ones that have rough neck on the back different, uh logos and everything man. So
Definitely, man. Hell yeah, dude. Thanks for coming out, man. Definitely man.
Concrete. You guys are fucking doing big. Thanks, man. I love you guys
St. Pete in the house. We're trying
You
