Hello, world. Brett Phillips is a Major League Baseball player for the Tampa Bay Rays, who
just recently broke the Hall of Fame legend, Babe Ruth's world record, to become the
first player in history with three Grand Slams and an inside the Parker in a span of 30
days or less. On this episode, we talk about diet and fitness, what it was like hitting
his insane walkoff to win Game 4 of the World Series. We also talked about NFTs and crypto,
and much, much more. Brett is easily the nicest, most likable guy in sports, and this episode
proves it. Without further ado, please welcome Brett Maverick Phillips.
Thanks for doing this, man.
No, thanks for having me. This is awesome. Any chance I can talk about things I'm passionate
about and do it with people who have been successful from my hometown?
Hell yeah, man.
It's awesome. Thanks for having me.
We both went to high school literally five minutes away from here. How crazy is that?
Insane. The seminal war hops. Did you play any sports over there?
No, I didn't. I skipped school at least three days a week to go surfing on the East Coast.
I didn't do anything but surf.
Love that. You made it through.
I hated all the baseball players. They were all such dicks.
That's what I hear.
I told that to Lexi, and she's like, Brett is not like those guys.
You know what? I don't know what it is, especially even past the high school level, college level,
into professional baseball. The egos and the entitlement, I mean, they associate how good
they are at something with how cool they are.
I think society is wrong about that, how we value people. But to my point, athletes,
they got to set their egos aside. They're good people at the heart.
Well, they're kids, too. They're just kids. They're the most popular kids in school. They
get all the girls, and they're the biggest, strongest guys. Of course, everybody hates
them.
Yeah. I guess that wasn't me in high school, I guess.
Oh, man.
You're pulling that thing, so it's like a couple inches from your mouth when you're
talking. You can move it, side to side. There you go.
So that wasn't you in high school?
No, not at all. I loved everyone. I fit in with everyone, every friend group. It didn't
matter. I wanted to learn, educate, associate. It didn't matter. I saw value in everyone,
and that's just who I've been.
But there's like, you obviously played baseball in high school, and there's got to be an obvious
pecking order, right? Were you like the most top dog in high school baseball?
As a senior committed to Division I school, I had all the scouts at every high school
game looking at me.
Really?
Yeah. So I knew that I was good at baseball because of what was happening around me, but
how I treated my teammates, you would never know. And I hope they could say that without
me being around, that you would never know Brett was the best at what he did in high
school. And I think that's just a testament to how my parents raised me growing up, just
loving and respecting everyone regardless of who they are. And it's a trait that I'm
very thankful for, has been instilled since a young age, now that I have a platform and
a big one, and I can pour into people and actually have confidence in what I'm saying,
knowing that they're going to listen because they think I'm a good person.
Did you always know you were going to play baseball? Is that all you ever wanted to do?
You just knew that was the path?
I was always good at it. So growing up, I was always the best at baseball, and it just
came easy. And as I went through the ages, I was always the best on the team, and then
I was the best in the city, and then best in the state. So I just knew that this is
what I want to be doing because of how much joy and happiness I left because I performed.
But did you have like, I guess what I was getting at was like, did you have a plan B
if it didn't work out, or did you just know unequivocally it was going to happen?
That's so funny you asked that. A few years ago, I'm sitting in line to vote, and there
was a dude who I played with in high school, his mom comes up to me, recognizes me in the
line before voting, and she goes, I just want to thank you. I'm like, what? She goes, I
know you turned into a professional baseball player, but when I asked you in high school
when you were a junior, I asked you if you had a plan B. If baseball didn't work out,
you said no. Because at the time, and she's saying like, at the time, I thought you were
crazy, but now you have paved a way. You have showed that if you commit so much time and
energy and passion into something, and you be a good person through it all, it's going
to work out. In my younger children, one wants to become, she's aspiring to be a professional
singer. And like, if you didn't pave the way for her to, you know, have that conversation
with me, I would have never let her pursue this the way she's doing it, like not going
to college pursuing it. Like these are things that I didn't do because I believed I wanted
to do this so bad. And there was never a plan B and she thanked me for that. It was wild.
That's really cool, man. That's fucking awesome. That's got to feel so good to have somebody
come up to you like that. Just out of nowhere. Vote in line to vote.
So humbling in like the, the autographs, you know, people asking for my picture is just,
it's so cool and so humbling. And seriously, uh, yeah,
Does it happen everywhere around here?
Not everywhere, but me and my wife will be out to dinner and, uh, fans around here are
so cool. Sorry. Yeah, my bad.
You can go like this. Oh, there we go. My bad. Yeah, you're good.
You got me there. Yeah. Yeah. So like when I was with Kansas City and Milwaukee, you
know, fans are super passionate in the Midwest about their sports and how they go about treating
their players. It's more of a big deal. Well, around here, everyone's just pretty chill.
Fans like they'll recognize me and they'll maybe just like fly past, but not say anything
or just like give me a head, head nod, but, uh, not interrupt me during dinner with my
wife for a picture, which has happened in the past or, you know, so it's, it's, it's
really cool to obviously play for my hometown team, but to see the fans kind of rally behind
that as well.
One of the most eye-opening things for me is when I first went to Pittsburgh and realizing
like, I thought, you know, St. Pete was a kind of like a little sports town for the
raise, but Pittsburgh is like a whole different beast. It's those people live, eat, live,
eat, sleep, breathe fucking sports, dude. It's crazy.
I know. And getting a taste of that playing for Milwaukee and Kansas City, I loved it,
right? Because winter lose, they're showing up for, for your game, but you know, they're
so passionate too. They're going to, they're going to let you know when you're sucking
it up. And I got absolutely roasted on Twitter, uh, on a weekly basis because I, I sucked
in Kansas City. The fans, they're so passionate. They're ruthless. Oh, if you don't play well.
So, uh, you didn't look like, did you look like it to you?
It does. Really? Yes. I had, I had to check every little comment and everything. I had
to delete Twitter, man. Like, yeah, because it, it's, uh, you know, it's really cool to
see when someone is, you know, you have a good game and it's not like I'm looking for
the affirmation, but I want to be on social media and I want to wind down and, you know,
see what's going on. It's in my face, right? Like it's, it's my, but anyways, and it just
got so toxic every night where I wanted to just get on there and see what other, my other
teammates were doing. And all I see is you suck. Like I'm, I'm talking like, I hope your
wife never has kids. Uh, like just I death threats. I'm going to kill you and your first
born. And, uh, it's sad, but this is what, this is what's going on. And I, I was like,
I'm done with it. I don't have to see this. I don't have to, you know, I don't, what's
this worth to me? And it started weighing on me a little bit. So I just deleted it.
Yeah. And, but it's, it's all good. I haven't gotten that kind of hate in Tampa Bay. So shout
out to you fans. Shout out Tampa Bay. Yeah. You got it. I just don't look at the comments
anymore. I used to really fuck me up. Cause when I read it, I'd get like, Oh, fuck, why
am I doing this? Like this is terrible. No one likes it. But then, you know, you realize
people that leave the comments on one that are just like miserable people sitting behind.
Yeah. Sitting behind their screens and not having much going for them. Or the other way
I look at it is they've lost so much money on the game and they're better. So like these
people have thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars on games a night. Social
media has given these same people who've been doing, it's probably been generation after
generation. Well, in instant time, they can roast the dude who just made them lose that
kind of money. And so with me being on the other end of it, like I saw different side
of people that most people don't know, but like they're, who knows what they have their
house mortgage, their, you know, their house on these games. And I'm just going to catch
the brunt end of it because I went 0 for 4 with two strikeouts and we lost. So,
Oh man, that's so funny. Yeah. I mean, it's like super important for athletes, not just
baseball players, but also football players. They like, it seems like now in the last five
years, more than ever, they've focused so much on like building their social media brand.
So like when they do leave sports, or if they get injured and they can't compete anymore,
that they have like, you know what I mean? Like they built their brand up to where they can
parlay that into, you know, other business or like a future beyond, you know, being on the field.
Yeah, no, I'm glad you brought that up. And it's something that I'm super passionate about
and actually advocate for is that transition outside of professionals baseball. There's a
statistic that says 80% of professional baseball players will be broke or divorced by the age of
40 now, which is unacceptable, right? Like, and it's something I recognize as I am going through
my career, whether it's how much money they're spending, what they're spending their money on.
If, you know, if they're not being loyal, like I recognize that and I'm like, I can't be that
statistic, right? Like I have to get ahead of this. So how am I doing it? Well, first, just like
educating myself on things I may find that I will be passionate about. We talked about
having a plan B earlier. You know, this isn't necessarily a plan B. More so, you're bettering
yourself, you know, in other areas that you, you have a passion for. So for instance, coaching,
I see how my favorite coaches in my career, analyzing how they're going about their business,
what do they do that I enjoy most? And then I grab that from them and I keep in my pocket.
Just in case if I have to transition into being a coach, I can be the best coach that I can be.
How about broadcasting? Something I'm passionate about as well. When someone is interviewing me,
I'm analyzing, I'm seeing how, what not to do, like what I find annoying or, you know, because
I'm going to put that in my pocket. And, you know, if I have a passion for it and I can transition,
make that transition easier after my career, then I'm bettering myself. And so, yeah, that's,
to your question or to your, what your statement about the Bucks players and athletes, I love it.
And that's something I'm going to continue to do because I can't be that statistic.
Right, right. Well, you are, you're definitely the most popular player on the raise, I think.
You're the one that everybody talks about. Like,
a popular, I wouldn't say popular, I just care. Okay.
Well, you're fun, man. You're like, you freaking fly around the field, you do goofy stuff.
Even when you like came out of the bullpen, you're pitching, like everyone just like,
you can't help but smile and laugh at this time. Yeah, you know, I, there's,
there's a time and place for everything. And what I mean by when I say I just care,
I grew up being a fan of the raise, I went to those games as an eight, nine, 10 year old.
I knew what was important to me at that time when I went to those games trying to get an autograph
is one of those, I don't care who it is, or one of those players going to take the time
to come say hi to Brett Phillips, who is a kid. Okay. How about how they play the game?
You know, are they hustling? Like what's cool? Are they throwing their helmet? I don't think
that's like just recognizing this from an early age. Now, now that I am a major league baseball
player, it would be stupid of me if I didn't remember what it was like, you know, growing
up down the road and going to a race game. So I take 15 minutes every game to sign,
like right before I go out to stretch 15 minutes. I'm the only player who does that.
It's because I care. Like I want the next generation to go about their business the
right way. And that like, that's just how I live my life. And that's why I can show so much joy
on a baseball field because this doesn't define who I am. I just love it. You know, so that's
awesome dude. You really are. Lexi was right. You really are the most genuine nice guy in sports.
Thank you. Thank you. The thing about baseball too is like you mentioned
signing autographs, people that are in the stands, right? I think baseball is one of the only sports,
if not one of few, where the fans can actually interfere with a play.
Yeah. And you play outfield, right? So have you ever had a fan like, like screw up a play?
Yeah, that's funny. So we're in Houston this year. Last year, I'm sorry, we're in 2022 now.
And it's the eighth inning and we're blowing them out. We're up by like eight or nine runs.
And I'm playing right field. Now granted, my head is facing towards home plate.
Oh, the whole, the whole right field section, as soon as the pitcher is about to throw a pitch,
just there's just an uproar. And I'm like, that's not normal for being down run like nine runs,
like the fans don't get into it. And I look behind me as the luckily it didn't get hit. And
there's just two dudes, like with their shirt offs, just running on the field. Oh, yeah. Like
just acting fools right behind you, right behind me. And I'm like, ninja, like what, like going
like this, like keeping them in front, like making sure I wouldn't have known what to do.
I'm not a fighter. Like I would have Judy chopped them in the neck or something.
But no, it took about like 10 minutes to get these dudes off the field. Don't do that, please.
If you're listening, do not interfere with, you're going to go to jail. It's like a felony now,
but yeah, it's, it's not funny either. I'm sure you're familiar with the, I think it was 2006
Chicago Cubs, Cubs game. It was like games five or six. And they were about to break their like
a hundred year streak of curse, right? And the kid like, it was coming out and the kid kind of
grabbed it. You're familiar with that story. He's got the headset on. He's got the headset on. Yeah.
Yeah. And he, um, yeah, it was a huge play. And you know, for me, that's wrong place at the wrong
time, right? Cause you have to protect yourself. And yeah, I do remember the play you leaned over a
little bit, but you were a fan. You are not a professional athlete in that moment. You're just
trying to like say, well, that man got trashed. Like that dude, death threats, they had to have like
security look out for that dude, but he still like lives in his life in privacy. No. Well,
what happened was they invited him back. Thank God. Oh, when they won, when they won. Um, and
and it was a huge story. So I think they let him off the hook as a city. Hopefully dude,
I was watching that. I forget what documentary it was, but I was watching a documentary on that.
And it was like the most crazy mob, mob scene I've ever seen of people just trying to literally
murder this kid. Okay. So with that being said, that was back in when 2006, 2006, maybe before,
no, I think it was 2000. No, that's when they won. Anyway, it was probably 2000. It was before
social media, right? And think about the hate he got then now times it by a thousand because
what's that clip going to and how many people are going to in, in lifetime. So all those people
who could care less about the play, just want to join in on the toxicity and that dude could like
potentially, you know, do something stupid because of that. And so it's, it's, it's crazy.
Yeah. It was like a, like a real life Twitter post really when that happened. Yeah. I mean,
all those people throwing beers at him and like, exactly. That's a, that's a good way to put it.
We should turn that, that, uh, that clip into an NFT. Oh, yes. And he should sell it, whatever
that kid's name is. He should, he should like mint it or whatever the video of him doing it. Give
people that digital asset to own. Yeah, that'd be wild. That would be so sick. Oh my God. So
you've never had to deal with any of that. Like people stealing the ball from you jumping up.
Uh, you know, I, I haven't crossed that yet in my career. I think I would throw my glove up there
or something. Yeah. If, uh, take away and out. What do you think about it though? Do you think
like that kid was in the wrong? Or do you think that's the thing? I don't, I mean, I can't blame
him. It was so, it was like right on the border of the ball was there. He reached for it, but it
looked like he was going to catch that with his glove. Yeah. And again, he's not a professional
athlete. Like he's, this is his moment, right? Like the ball is coming right towards him. And
to have that, that amount of pressure in that time, who thinks to just like put my glove down
and not catch it? Right. Come on. Any, even a, anyone would try and catch that ball. It was right
next to him. So I don't, I don't blame him for trying to catch it. Well, it's good that they
finally broke the curse a couple of years later because now he can, I'm sure he can live his life
and I'm peacefully. And if you're a Chicago fan and you still hate this man, please let him move on.
Oh my God. But baseball fans are like super superstitious, right? They're like one of the
most superstitious. There was another one that cursed the fans, the players. Oh yeah. Oh, the
players are also superstitious. Oh yeah. I'm talking like to the point where if they take the same
like way to the field, they're going to put the, if they had a good game, they're going to try to
mimic the day before to the blinker and when they got over at the, like when, when they're headed
to the field. Really? Yeah. Like I'm talking the, like dudes your age. Oh yeah. Oh, what do you mean
older with like families? The superstitious is wild. That's I don't have any. I don't have any.
You don't have any superstitions? No, I don't. I'm just so like today's the day it's already been mapped
out for me. Like whatever I do, it's already been decided. So I, I mean, I can't, I can't put that
much time and energy to think about what I did the day before because I had a good game. Right.
It's just too much for me. Too much. What? So like you got out, when you got out of high school
finally and you said you had scouts at every single game you went to, what was your life like
between the end of high school and, or did you go to college after that? No, so I straight to,
yeah. So yeah. What was that process like? Yeah. Is it like just like it's at like in the movies
when they come to your house and fricking write a check? Yeah, literally. So,
yeah, a little backstory for, for people listening. I'm a baseball player. You guys have, you know,
learned that, but for the Tampa Bay Rays and I, I got drafted out of high school by Houston
Astros in 2012 and I had to grow up super quick. Like I turned 18. My mom was, you know, doing laundry
for me. And next thing I know, I'm a professional athlete. I'm looking up day one when I, when I
get in and these dudes are just towering over me from like the Dominican, Venezuela. I think there
was four American guys on a team of 30. Yeah. So no one spoke English and I'm, I'm watching these
dudes and I'm telling you like I'm 170 pounds, 511, you know, soaking wet. These dudes are 225
grown men at 18, no, like 17, 18 years old. They're hitting a ball a mile during batting practice.
I'm just like spraying the field and I'm like, there's no way. Like did I make the right decision
here? Like I should have gone to college for three years, put on some, like my mind was going crazy
and no, I, I, we go into the first game and I'm like, Oh man, this is not going to be good. I
think I struck out like three times. I'm just getting blown away. I'm like, Oh, this is tough.
But I stuck to it. I was like, you know, this is what I chose to do. And my mom, she gave me
permission during that process that, Hey, if you want to go pursue your dreams, like she encouraged
me, but if, if you get hurt or you're not good enough, you're going to be going back to college.
So that was kind of the process of getting drafted and choosing to play professionally over, over
college. It was me wanting to go pursue my, my dreams and aspirations. So fast forward.
How, wait, wait, how old were you when you went to Houston? I was 18 when I got drafted.
Yeah. I just went to Houston. So I went to rookie ball, which was in,
Oh, okay. Yeah. Which was in Kissimmee, Florida. And that's when there was like 30 or 40 dudes that
were just way better than me at baseball. And you know what? I, I, I was told, Hey, you, you have the,
the proper mechanics. Like you are going to train change so much from the ages of 18 to 21
as a man physically and mentally and emotionally that like you have the foundation, just keep your
head down. And so when I was not good enough at that time, when I just was 18, I had something to
kind of lean on and know, Hey, I've been encouraged just to keep my head down, work hard, do my thing.
And sure enough, each year I just got better and better. And next thing you know, like how I was
in little league, I was the best, how I was the best in travel ball. And then I was the best in
high school. And now as a professional baseball is in high A. I won minor league player of the year.
And in a span of three years, I went from looking around me to thinking I wasn't going to make it
because of how big dudes were to being where I was. And, and so I just always encourage
those scouts to know what they're doing. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. No doubt. Don't sleep on the scouts.
There was a lot of scouts that you asked about the movie and scouts coming to your house. Yeah,
I had about 10. And most of them I had to do by myself because my mom was working. So super,
super nervous. I'm a 17 year old boy. The Scott New York Yankee scout comes in just drilling me
with questions by yourself, by myself, by myself. I had to grow up real quick in that sense. And
luckily I tricked the Houston Ashrow Scout, right? I like I must have been on my game that night.
I must have been saying all the right answers. Questions they ask you just cite questions.
I had a couple scouts tell me that I was faking an injury. And I was like, what are you talking
about? They're like, well, you know, we know all the good players in this area. Like you wouldn't
just become this good your senior year if you've been hiding like an injury. Like what do you know
what I'm saying? They're basically saying that my growth from my junior to senior year, because I
only had one college scholarship. So most guys who are getting looked at to get drafted, they could
pick whatever college they want to go to, right? Like you're going professional college is nothing.
For me, I had one offer and I took it. And so I jumped from being a good baseball player to a
great baseball player in my senior year. And that's when one of the scouts came in was like, no, like
guys don't get good that fast. Like where have you and I'm like, sir, like with all due respect,
like I'm I'm a God fearing man. Like I give the credit to God for giving me the ability
this fast. I don't know what else to tell you. Yeah. So that's freaking nuts, man.
That's so great. And then so it's okay. So you played in Kissimmee for a while before you went
to Houston. Yeah. So I played in Kissimmee. I'll give you the path real quick. The next year,
I started an extended spring training. And then I went to Quad Cities in Iowa for three weeks.
And then I got sent down to Advanced Rookie Ball in Greenville, Tennessee, which was a dump,
by the way, we stayed in a Shirei motel. My mom came and visited. She walked inside the hotel,
went right back out and said, Mav, that's my middle name. That is disgusting. Like what are
Hey, for the love of the game, mom, like you do not get treated like people think in the minor
leagues. So then the following year, finished up in Greenville, the next year, I started in Quad
Cities, which was low A Quad Cities River Bandits. And that's when I started to really blossom. I went
from having zero home runs my first two years to hitting 17 that year. And so something just got
into me. I kept my head down, stayed to stayed true to who I was. And I just blew up just like I
did my senior year. And that's when I won minor league player of the year. And things started really
just taken off for my career. I didn't have an, I had an advisor, my first agent, Lauren Pinkes,
who I'm still close with. I had to go into a different direction. And he respected that just
with my career, I was having offers come in like top steals. And Lauren was so early in his career
that we didn't match on a professional career level. So I had 15 meetings with 15 different agents.
Like I was after winning player of the year, I was in control now. So I could choose which agent I
wanted to go with. And I went with Tom O'Connell out of Tampa, who's my guy. So like I said, career
started taking off under armor deal, top steal. Following year, I started out in high A out in
Lancaster, California. And great place to play, tore it up halfway through the year, made the
all star game go up to double a Corpus Christi, Texas, get traded a month later. At first time,
it was bittersweet. I was like, we were about to play manager calls me and Hey, we just traded you.
What do you mean? You just traded me. That's the first thing you said we traded you. Yeah,
we traded you. We, you know, we appreciate everything you've done for this organization,
but you're heading to Milwaukee. Okay. So I ended up going to Milwaukee. It was a me,
Josh Hader, Domingo Santana and myself for Adrian Hauser for Carlos Gomez and Mike Fires from
Milwaukee. So I finished the year in double A thinking, all right, I'm getting one step closer
to the big leagues. Following year start out in double A again. I'm like, I'm just man, all right.
I'm, and they're telling me, you know, you're, you're still young. You've got time and played the
whole year in double A that was in Biloxi, Mississippi. Following year, Colorado Springs,
Skysox. I'm in triple A. I'm balling out in, in May or June, June 5th, right after my birthday.
I get the call. Hey, you're going to the big leagues and I'm five years in now. Like this is
everything I've dreamed of. This is my moment and call my mom. Mom's freaking out. One of the best
phone calls. I'll remember it to the day I died, just the joy, the happiness and went through all
that. I was up for three days, Danny. Three. I thought, you know, I was going to, and this is where
this is where athletes go wrong. They think, you know, when, when you make it, like, all right,
now it's time to go spend my money. My mama house. Yep. I'm taking care of my family. I've made it.
But it's not like that. Like if you think it's hard to make it to the top level as a professional
athlete, times it by a hundred, that's how hard it is to stay because there is a guy that's right
behind you who's ready to take your position. Like you take one night off, you're going back down
to triple A and I played that game most of my career for parts of four years. I went back and
forth from the major leagues to the minor leagues grinding. So three days you were signed by who?
Milwaukee. I got called up. Okay. And then I got sent back down and I played that for four years
where I would get called up and get sent down back and forth like, Hey, you're not good enough yet
or we don't have room for you. I mean, for a number of reasons, you would think it would be one reason
you weren't good enough. But you know, just like anything baseball is political. But anyways,
yeah, just I wouldn't trade it for the world just from what I've learned through each one of those
times I got sent down. But yeah, tough people think like what they see on TV, like, Oh, he's got it.
Right. He's got it. He's got the bag. Like my man, you know, but the reality is it's two percent.
It's a very small percent who get 10 years in the big leagues, let alone get to ride off into
the sunset with millions of dollars. And, you know, they don't have to worry about like that's
a such a small percentage, but everyone has a perception that that's what's going on. And
don't get me wrong. Athletes do not good, do a good job pleading their case with what they
drive around, like what they've got around their necks, you know, like they're not playing their
case. Right. Like they got money in the moment, but it does. Yeah. So for me, I'm constantly
educating myself about things and, you know, because I have to. I think it was the other day
I saw Shannon Sharp said that when he was playing for the Denver Broncos, he was making
350,000 a year and he bought a $250,000 Ferrari wild. Like that's what's going on. And I'm
witnessing it in person. And I'm just like, man, and obviously as your as a teammate, you're not
going to say anything. Like that's a grown man. Like I respect his, his whatever he's got going on.
Personally, I wouldn't do it, but you see it and you're just like, man, I know what direction
you're headed in. Yeah. And it's, it's tough. It's hard too. I mean, you think a lot of these guys
are so young. They're really good at whatever the sport is, right? But then you have to learn how
to navigate all of these people, like agents, financial advisors, and I'm sure not all of them
are the greatest. I'm sure, I'm sure it's kind of like it gets dicey with people that are,
oh, have their morals in check. And if you don't have the right people in your corner,
you know, or you don't have the right foundation, you're, you're going to be, you know, you're only
as good as the environment you put yourself in. Like you're going to make decisions on what your,
your friends, your homies, like your family is telling you, because you don't take the time
to surround yourself or educate and network yourself with people who are getting there,
like doing, they're successful. They're doing the right thing. So you can't necessarily blame
the athlete, but at the same time, you have to, as an athlete, you, you have to set your ego aside
and be like, you know what, maybe, maybe these, this isn't right. Like,
like, I, I don't know what, what do you got on that? I don't, I feel like it's hard to tell
a 21 year old, you know, that he's a dumb ass piece of shit because he's, you know, for whatever
decision that he makes, you know, these are like, these are, I think it does something to your brain
that's not good when you are so young, like in your 20s or even 18, 19, 20, and you get millions
of dollars. Like, I don't think you're, you're supposed to have that kind of money. Yeah. Just
because your brain's not even close to being fully developed at that point, you're, you're,
you're so immature and pulsive or whatever. And when you have that money, it just gives you this
crazy amount of confidence and ego and they say money is like a magnifying glass. It just makes
you more of what you are. But if you're, if you're not a well-rounded educated, you don't know,
you haven't experienced anything, you've experienced just getting to where you are right now to be
a rookie in the NFL or the MLB or whatever it is. And, you know, I feel like a lot of the sports
fans, they don't think about it from that perspective. They'll be like, oh, this fucking
kneeling for the flag or he did this and got a DUI or whatever. But he's a 21 year old kid.
They just got handed a millions of dollars. Yeah. And, you know, quick, people are real quick to
form their, their opinion and make assumptions. Yeah. And that's just the reality of it.
But if you take a step back and you dissect it from a logical standpoint, like you, you have,
you can kind of have some sympathy. Like it doesn't necessarily have to, you know, agree with it.
Like, but just to have a different opinion or different view. And I think if we start valuing
people more on how they treat others or how you've heard that they treat people, do they take the
time to do this or that? Like that's the people we should be valuing as opposed to how much money
someone's making, you know, like, are, what do they drive? Like, what's their profession?
And then when those are the people that are doing stuff wrong, then people are just like quick to,
to tear them off the, the pedestal, right? Right. Because they valued them so high in the first
place. Yeah. It's like the fame and the money. It automatically, they should be the Dalai Lama.
You know what I mean? Like that's what you expected them. You can't make one wrong move.
Exactly. Just because, okay, I was really good at baseball. I made millions of dollars and I'm
young. Now you expect me to be the Dalai Lama. I have to know everything. And I'm sorry, but like
athletes who, you know, are so strong, like in their opinion, I'm like, man, just because you
made all this money, it doesn't give you the right to think that you're the most educated person.
Like your opinion matters most. Like I just, but in people value it as so. And I'm like,
stop guys, just because like, I know this man personally, he's not a good person.
And you guys value him so, so high because he has so much money and he puts out really cool
content and people worship people, man. It's crazy. It's crazy. If you really talk to somebody,
like a, like a hardcore fan of a Pittsburgh team or one of those teams with the crazy
hardcore sports bands, they idolize those people, man. And that's what I recognize.
So I have to, you know, and this is obviously who I am to my core, but I have to show love and
respect on a daily basis. I have to go out of my way for the fans because I am an advocate
for telling people, hey, value people on how they go about their business, not what they have.
So like I would be a hypocrite if I didn't, you know what I'm saying?
For sure. For sure. 100%. What do you think about Antonio Brown?
I'm sorry, man. He needs to check himself. Dude. He needs to check himself. And it's,
this is another case of the game defines who he is as a human. Meaning he, his worth is in playing
football and football is all he has. And, you know, with the decisions he's made and how he
goes about his business, it's, it's going to come with some serious, um, just backlash in any,
any type of way, mentally, emotionally, because this is what he's put his, his, his, his identity
in. Yeah. And man, I feel, I don't want to say I feel bad for him, but yeah, I can't respect him
for, for how he's gone about his business. And I, and I hope he, he checks himself and surrounds
himself with good people. Yeah. He's like, like for me in sports, I've always been a fan of specific
players and I'm not never been like a team fanatic, you know what I mean? But like I've always been
a huge fan of his, like from when he got drafted and played for the Steelers and like he was falling.
Which is sad. But he, and then you, you see like some of those crazy hits he took. Yeah. Yeah. And
you think, you know, how much of this is CTE or how much is this really wrecked his brain? Yeah.
To where he's not thinking, you can't think, they say one of the, you know, symptoms of CTE is you,
it gives you like the inability to think multiple steps ahead of your actions. You know what I mean?
Like for sure. You retaliate instant, instantaneously. And man, that again, I can't imagine
going to war every night for my career. And so I, man, I have a lot of respect for those guys.
And you know, with the CTE, I would, I would encourage, and I hope they do, I'm sure they do,
to, if, if you've been diagnosed, like if AB's been seriously diagnosed, like,
I don't know, can you be diagnosed? Yeah. With a brain scan, I'm sure they can see it light up.
Can they? I heard that they could only do it. Well, Antonio Brown did that podcast with those
full send podcasts. Okay. Yeah. Give me, he was, all he said, they asked him the same question.
Okay. He was like, they can't diagnose CTE until after you're dead. Okay. So that's what he said.
Can you find that Austin? He would know better, obviously he would know better than I do. But
if he felt like he did have it, how can he get ahead of it? Like if, if you make rash decisions
or comments, don't have, don't have a Twitter, delete your Twitter, delete your Instagram. If
you're going to do something stupid and you know you are, because you know, you have circumstances
from football, then put yourself in a position where you're not going to make yourself look worse
and then have it as a crutch, so to say. And again, I respect and I have sympathy and empathy
because I will never know, but here we go. What do we got here? This says there's currently no test
to diagnose CTE. The diagnosis is based on a history of participating in, or a history of
participating in contact sports, plus the symptoms and clinical features. What does that say,
Austin? So there, is there a way? Your GP will talk to, talk to you about the problems you're
experiencing and you may ask some simple mental physical tasks, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Okay. The changes in the brain do not always show up in routine brain scans. Okay.
So, so AB was right. Yeah. After you die, they got to like cut your brain open. And, and that's
a thing. Does he blame, like I haven't dove into the Antonio Brown situation too much, but does he
blame his having CTE for like taking his shirt off and disrespecting the game of football on live
television? Right. Like, I don't think he does. I mean, he's like, I don't think he said, oh, it's CTE.
They asked him if he had CTE and he's like, probably, he's like, you can't tell until I'm dead.
Yeah. So again, if I'm Antonio Brown and I've had a history of doing the things that he's done,
I would, I would change everything I've done. Like, like, what's the definition of insanity?
So change something, surround yourself with better people, you know, delete your, your social media.
Like this is not working. You were throwing away everything. So yeah.
I mean, I heard Tom Brady even hooked him up with Tony Robbins, but when he first brought him to
the Bucs, he was like doing all these Tony Robbins affirmations and doing stuff with him and stuff
and trying to get him better. And he won a Super Bowl. And he won a Super Bowl, bro. It's so crazy.
Yeah, it's wild. Fuck man. Yeah, I don't think he'll ever play football. It's going to be,
it's going to be tough for any team to want to take that on.
What are some of the, I don't think there's any head injuries in baseball,
but like, what are some of the most common and Tommy John?
What is that? Okay. So Tommy John, you have a nerve that runs in between your elbow.
And it's, it, it's the easiest or I would just say it's the number one injury in baseball players
because of the throwing motion over the head throw is not a normal movement for
a human being. It's the underhand throw, which is a more natural. So this ligament right here
gets too much stress, tears. And what the doctors do, they'll either take the bigger ligament
right on your hand or wrist or the one behind your knee and they'll replace it. And it's,
it's like a 12 to 18 month recovery. You can't, yeah, you can't play for so.
How's your, how's yours doing? Feel good? Yeah. You know what? I'm not a pitcher.
Oh, it's only for pitchers. Okay. Not only for pitchers, but mostly for pitchers who are,
you know, throwing a hundred pitches a night. Well, you did pitch. You were a pitcher at one
point, right? I, yeah. So I came into pitch at one point, which was the greatest moment of my career.
What's the story of that? So the story is we're getting blown out and we're in Buffalo because
Toronto was closed down. So the Toronto Blue Jays, big league team was playing in Buffalo,
New York. We're getting blown out. It's like 10 to one. And Kevin Cash, the manager, I'm sitting
on the bench, right? Where I'm, where I mostly am warming it. It's a nice, chilly night. Kevin
Cash, the manager comes up to me and he goes, Hey, can you pitch? And I look up at this man's face
and I said, what kind of question is that? I'm the best option you got right now.
They started laughing. So obviously best option, meaning off the bench in a game like that,
you don't want to burn any of your pitchers, actual pitchers. So I get my glove and I head down to
the bullpen out in right field. Now how the bullpens are, you have the Toronto Blue Jays
bullpen guys right in front with their turf mound. And then right behind you've got Tampa Bay
arrays. And so when I was warming up, you had both teams kind of laughing. I don't know if you saw
the video, but I was like, I was digging around. And I just, I didn't think there was a camera on
me. I was just, my mind was on, okay, I'm making them laugh. I'm making my team laugh like, right?
So I kept going. What else can you do in that situation? Exactly. Like the game is already
out of reach. Baseball, 162 games. You're going to go through periods like that. So it's fine.
No disrespect. So I, I come out of the bullpen. It's my time to shine. I come out American ninja
warrior style, like full speed ahead, right? Like you could look, you see me on the video and pull
it up. Yeah. Yeah. Pull it up. And so, um, uh, no, it's just do breath little pitching.
Um, so I come out, right? And the first pitch, I wanted to see how hard I could throw
because I had the bullpen coach call it out to the manager and say, Hey, Phillips wanted me to
tell you he's going to throw one ball as hard as he can. And then he'll lob the rest. I don't know
if you ever called down or not. So I go out and the first one, I'm, I'm telling the hitter,
Anthony Davis, I'm like, yo, back up, back up, because if I would have hit him,
a position player hitting another position player, it's just not a good look,
but he didn't hear what I was saying. So I kind of had to let off some awful 94 miles an hour.
And everyone's just like, what the heck's going on? And the next pitch I throw was at 47.
And I, like everyone's like, why didn't you go back to 94? Oh, there it is.
We're going to turn the volume off though. So we can, so we can't like bombarded by the sound.
He's like, why didn't you go back to the 94? The pitching coach would have absolutely came
out there and tore me a new one on live television. If I would have thrown one hard again.
Really? Yeah. Yeah. Why don't you want you to throw them hard?
Because they didn't want me to get hurt. I'm an outfielder. You know, there's no, look here,
here I am. I'm, I'm razzing, razzing the right field right now.
Yeah. Roasted them. I'm like, you have no chance. It's my friend, Teosca Hernandez.
I'm like talking to him. You've got no chance. Oh, he placed the other team,
other team, Toronto Blue Jays. Oh shoot. This is the extended version.
You probably got to fast forward to find it, right? No, there's a version out there that
has the highlight. He'll find it. Okay. But anyways, so that I come into the clubhouse after
the game and I look at my phone and I kid you not, Danny, I had 20,000 new Instagram followers.
And I'm, I'm like trying to scroll through like why everyone is following me, right?
Like that is probably the scariest thing on social media is why you're trending.
Like, you know, just for a bad thing. Yeah, exactly. And so I click on the video.
Yeah. Yeah. That's the one you just, oh no, yeah, you're right. That's the highlight.
So you're sprinting. Oh yeah. American Ninja Warrior style.
Here I am in the bullpen, right? How about that off advertisement? That's incredible.
Yeah. They got some good love right there.
Did they hit you up after this? No, they were already an MLB sponsor. So they just were milking that.
The stutter step. No one throws like that, by the way. That pitching motion, no one,
it has an open stance. So you were just kind of like winging it or what?
Yeah. I was throwing like that because I wanted to be prepared. If a guy smoked one right back
at me, I was already facing towards the plate. Dude, that's got to be one of the most terrifying
things. Being a pitcher and having that thing coming right back, or yeah, a pitcher. I mean,
guys hit the ball 115 miles an hour off the bat. So I accidentally dropped the ball there.
But yeah, guys are hitting the ball so hard and me not being used to pitching, I didn't want to
get smoked or not be prepared for something. So I was, yeah, I don't know why I keep showing that.
After the podcast, I can show you, oh yeah, everyone's like, after I threw 94, everyone's
like, yo, what? Was it an accurate 94? Yeah, it was an accurate 94. Even the announcers couldn't
believe it. Was it a strike? No, it was a little above the zone. But even the announcers were like,
that can't be real. I was like, oh yeah, believe it. That's sick, dude. But yeah, no, that's got
to be one of the most terrifying things in baseball, right? That is pitching the ball and then having
that 100 mile an hour ball come right back at you. Right back at you. It's scary and some of the
worst injuries are from that. Oh, really? Unfortunately. Yeah, I saw something where
some guy got hit right in the temple with it and he was just like convulsing afterwards.
Yeah, that actually ruined his career. Really? Which is, yeah, super sad story. So I'm always,
that's why I don't like pitchers throwing at hitters. Just because, I understand what you're
doing if you feel disrespected and you got shown up. But when you're propelling an object over
90 miles an hour at someone because they pimped a home run off you or you felt disrespected,
I don't understand what warrants, that warrants throwing at someone like you could ruin someone's
career. But it's not thought about that like that. It's just like it's crazy. That's like a
play. It's an unwritten rule. Like you have to hit someone and luckily we're heading in a direction
where it's not as relevant like it was in the past. Old school baseball people will say that's,
that's the play. That's how it should be played. But at the same time, as a human being, like,
okay, that's the play and you see someone's career get ruined because of it. Are you okay with that?
Like, to me, you're a bad person because you just took something that was minor and, you know,
you agreed with how it went about. There's old school baseball like minds that think this is okay.
Oh, for sure. And for me, it doesn't warrant getting hit. You know, maybe if you want to chirp in
the interview after the game or on social media, like throw some shade. That's going to grow the
game anyway. Yeah, I saw a clip of you. I saw actually that reminds me. I saw a clip of you,
like you started like charge a guy that was pitching at you. They like came to grab you.
Yeah, they thought I was serious. So I got hit by my buddy who I got traded with from Milwaukee
to Kansas City, Jorge Lopez. And he it wasn't it wasn't on purpose. Like this is one of my best
friends in the game smokes me right in the back 95 right like right in the soft spot. And I gave
it a grimace and then I threw my bat down and I said, you want to fight with me like my best
Puerto Rican accent. You want because he's Puerto Rican. You want to fight with me just like that.
Like in the umpire in the catcher. No, no, no, no, no, no, like start to try to hold me back.
And I started laughing. And I was like, no, no, no, that's my boy. That's my boy. And that blew
up and went viral. But small things like that people love. And it's not that I'm sitting at
my house saying, okay, when I get the opportunity to pitch, I'm going to do it like this. Or if I
get hit with 95, I'm going to react like this. It's just because it's my joy, like my passion that
my happiness like this is genuine organic. And uh, yeah, so love it. That's pretty dope, man.
That's super cool to see somebody like make the sport so much more entertaining by adding that
whole element to it. You know what I mean? The whole comedy value of it is baseball is fun. That's
so sick. Thank you, man. And I want to go back to my point, uh, when I was looking at Instagram,
I had 20,000 followers. And so I get to the video and it's of me messing around goofing around.
And I'm like putting my head, my hand on my head. I'm just like, you are such a nerd. Like,
this was the reason everyone was following me. Like you were, you're a dork. Like why
everybody loves you. Yeah. Well, if I knew cameras were rolling, I wouldn't have been doing that.
You know what I'm saying? I didn't know there were cameras. So, uh, you know, I just put it in
the book for things I've been exposed for, like my crazy laugh. Um, just like everyone knew me for
the longest time before the walkoff in the world series is, you know, that's like the MLB clown.
Like, yeah, he's, uh, he's got a, he's got a funny laugh. And you know, it's cool, right? Like,
it's better to be known for something than nothing, but up until that hit in the world series, I want
to, like, I want to be taken serious in my career. You know, I want to be known for something cool.
Like this is my livelihood, you know? So, uh, when, when I had that walkoff hit,
it was really cool that I could finally start colliding the two worlds and I would be respected
for both. Right? Like now I'm the, the clown of MLB. Like legitimized you. But it legitimized me.
Thank you. And man, it's just been, it's given me some newfound confidence, um, which has helped
me tremendously. I had the best year of my career last season, um, feeling no pressure
because of that one play. And it's crazy how one little moment in anyone's career can change the
course for either which direction. Walk me through that play like that scenario. That was your first
time being in the world series. First time being in the world series. It's game four was my first
and only at bat. Let that sing in. Wait, wait, during that game? No, the whole series. Oh,
really? I had one at bat. I was never supposed to even get that at bat.
That's so, so let me run. Let me, let me give you the backstory. It's COVID year 2020.
We go into 18 or it was like eight or 12 team, the playoffs were expanded because we didn't have
fans that year and we beat New York. Oh no, we beat Toronto in a best two out of three. I was on
the roster. Um, I played the outfield and then we beat New York in five games and I was on the
roster. I pinch ran and played the outfield and then we played Houston. I wasn't on the roster
for Houston because during the COVID year, we played each game back to back to back to back
in the normal year, you have off days in between every two games. So you can rest your pitching.
So they came up to me, Kevin Cash and says, Hey, Philly, like you, we're going to have, I know it
sucks, but we're going to have to leave you off the roster for this series because we need the
pitching. You know what, Kevin? I understand that. I respect it. Like let's go, let's go win the ALCS.
I was the best teammate that I could be showed up every day, regardless that I wasn't on the
roster. I wanted to win, right? Like it didn't matter. So I know there's funny videos of me
like holding up a sign like Randy rakes all day, night, year, like I made up and I'm like just
Randy best player ever. This is when Randy Rosarino was going off and everyone loved it.
And I was just like, this is who I am. Like I want the best for everyone around me.
So Danny, fast forward to the world series. I don't know if I'm on the roster, right? This
is the freaking world series. Not only do you have a dream of being a major league baseball
player when you decide this is the sport you want to, you want to play, but playing in the world series
is a dream inside a dream. Like your 12 year old self can't even really get to that point.
That's how big it is. So I'm like, please Lord, like let me be on this roster, right? Because
it's all his plan. I'm like, I said, I'm a God fearing man, a man of faith and everything in
my life that has happened is because of him. So I get a call from Kevin Cash. He goes, listen,
you're on the roster and my heart starts pumping. All right. Like I'm in my hotel room, like let's
go. He goes, but you're probably not going to get in at bat. And I'm like, that's okay. He said,
you're going to play the outfield and you're going to, you're going to pinch run. Oh, that's
you holding up the sign. Yeah. Yeah. So that's me at it. Yeah. So this was at what point? Okay.
So this was during Houston. Randy was looked like Babe Ruth, just absolutely going off.
He was tearing it up and
wow. And I'm just, it's probably going to at the end, you'll see me holding up the sign. Randy
rakes all night, day, year. They made shirts out of that.
Right. So back to my story, Kevin cash tells me I'm on the roster. I'm not going to hit. I'm just
going to play the field and pinch run. That's okay. Thank you. Let's go win this thing.
So this was right before you went into the world series, right before we went into the world
series. So game one of the world series. We lost. I think I got to play the outfield. Game two,
we had one and I think I got to play game three. I have to look back. I don't know if I played,
but it was two to one in the series. Game four rolls around. Okay. Long game. I'm watching this
play out. We go up one. They get two. We get one. We tie it up. They go up one. It's a great
game. If you get a chance, you got to watch that game all the way through. So I'm sitting on the
bench and I'm watching this play out and we're using a bunch of position players. They're getting
subbed in to hit to play defense and it's coming down to the eighth inning. G-man choice on second
base. There's two outs. Phillips go pinch run. Obviously I'm faster in G-man choice. If there's
a ball hit to the outfield, I'm going to score. He would be a question mark. So someone strikes
out. It ends the inning. I go out into right field. Now during like my time in right field,
I think it was one, two, three. I was not thinking about hitting because usually when you get pinched,
you get subbed in. You go in for the last person who hit and there's nine people that hit. So you
have to do a full rotation before you're going to hit. So I didn't think anything of it. We're down
by one run. Like it's not going to get to me. Right. Okay. So I come in the dugout, which is good,
which was good for my mental state. Right. Exactly. I didn't get it. Performance, anxiety,
all right. Thinking about, wow, it's going to come down to me. So I go in the dugout in Hoover.
One of the coaches comes up to me. He goes, bro, you're up fifth. You're going to win this game
for us. Just like, I swear to God, just like that. He said you're going to win this game. You're
going to win this game for us. And on the outside, it was a reaction. Everyone would have said,
yeah, heck yeah, I'm going to win this game for us. But on the inside it was, yo, is this man crazy?
Like I haven't had an at bat for two weeks. I haven't had a hit for a month. I wasn't even
supposed to get an at bat. And you're telling me, Brett Phillips, because I don't know whether
you're encouraging me or you felt compelled to say that I'm going to win this game. Okay.
So I go in down. You were just questioning yourself as soon as you said that. Yeah. Okay.
So, so I go down into the, uh, in pinch hitting, by the way, is not easy. It's the hardest thing.
What does that mean? When you, you sit cold on the bench, the whole game, and they say, hey, Danny,
you're in, you got to go hit. And at that time you're facing 95 to 100 miles an hour. Okay.
All baseball hitting is, is rhythm and timing. And when you get put in a position for one at bat
to have to perform, it's really tough. Okay. So I'm down in the, the, uh, tunnel where we've got
our batting cage. And I'm taking deep breaths and I'm just, I'm feeling locked in. I'm feeling
nice. I'm hitting, I take a swing and we've got the game on. So I'm watching kind of things unfold.
We had a base hit. There's a man on first, next guy got out. I know I'm up third. So I start walking
to on deck. Randy Rosarino is in front of me. The guy who was hitting, I think he might have
popped out. So now there's two outs, man on first base. Okay. I'm on deck. Randy Rosarino,
you just saw this man was going off. You know, he was getting, in my mind, he's getting on base.
Like this is coming down to me. And now at the, like I've pinch hit before and being on deck,
right in that moment, I'm, I'm personally, I'm feeling performance anxiety in any other moment
where I'm cut, I'm a little out of breath. Uh, my heart rate is, is fast. You know, I'm letting
the environment kind of control my heartbeat, which is loud. Well, I'm sitting on deck. I say my
favorite Bible verse. I recite it every time I get myself in a position. I'm like, Isaiah 41 10,
fear not, for I am with you, be not dismay for I'm your Lord. I will help you. I will strengthen
you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Now at that moment, I felt just like
a piece of like, like sense of peace and comfort come over me and I'm, and my, my shoulders are
down and I'm taking deep breaths and I'm like, this is different. Like I, I've never had this type
of confidence before. So Randy walks, he puts together a great at bat and I'm walking up to
the plate and I'm just like, look, I'm, I'm searching for the, the performance anxiety now
because I cannot, this is weird to me. I've never had this where to go. Right. So like I'm looking
around at the crowd. It's a world series. It's loud. It's, it's man off first and second, two
outs. This is huge. And I just feel, okay, let's go. Just swing the bat. I'm locked in during that
bat. You can see the umpire, what I think kind of squeezes me on two calls on the inside and on
the outside on the K box. They were outside the zone. He calls them strikes, but I had, I had,
you know, I'm down to two strikes. I had zero, zero like pressure. I felt like just all I had to do
was swing. And next thing you know, just craziness ensues. And if you watch baseball, a play like
this just does not happen. Like you are in the world series. This is peak focus for every,
for nine guys on that field. They are peak focused. They are not worried about what they're going to
eat that night. They're not worried about what their family members are up to during the year.
162 games. Yeah. Guys are going to space out a little bit, but this is the world series and on
the play, the center fielder boots the ball. So air number one, we score one, Randy or Rosarina
slips and falls rounding third base, like theatrical slip and fall. Like what is that?
Yeah. So he gets caught in between third base and home plate. If the catcher catches it,
he's out. We tie the game. We go into the next inning. Brett Phillips doesn't become the hero,
but what does the catcher do? Catcher rushes the play because he doesn't know Randy slipped.
So he rushes the play and misses the ball, which gives Randy the opportunity to stand up
and go score. And next thing you know, like does it mind blowing? Like does not happen. And so next
thing you know, I'm running around the outfield. Like my kid, my, the kid reaction in me was to do
this. Like, and I'm so glad I did. And I almost passed out. It was the first time in my life that
I've ever had to get an IV. Like my resting heart rate was 140 to 160, just sitting there and they're
like, yo, this boy's going to shock. Like I am such a nerd, like put myself into shock. And I was
shivering and they put an IV in me, but I love telling that story because
I'm going to play the video. Yeah. Play the video Austin. So after you got to the dugout,
you are after you got back to the locker room. Is this one by MLB? Okay. Yeah.
Turn the sound. Yeah. Um, yeah, just turn the sound on, screw it.
We'll get a copyright strike, but it's all good. No, no, no, don't do that. No, no, it's fine. Okay.
Technically like this is me. So
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So you own this MLB. Yeah. Technically I made this for them. So
I'll copyright strike them. Tell them right now on the camera. Say MLB. I give you, I give permission.
MLB, let me use this please. So this is when you're still on deck or no, I just walk, I just got in
on the plate. Okay. I just walked in. It's OO count two outs, man on first and second. I haven't
done this yet. Give it a little live analysis. I kind of like this. Kenley Jansen being one of the
best premier closers in the game, by the way. Okay. This dude is a stud. Okay. One of the best.
So here we go. Man on first and second. First pitch comes. Cut her in for a ball.
So that, holy crap. It was close. It was close, but it's, it's a, that's a ball. Okay.
So the, the announcer, not too many people sitting down. Like my, my helmet is rattling,
right? Like it is loud. Those Dodger fans are loud. Okay. So very close pitch, but that's,
I think that's a ball, but it, when they gave you a strike, they gave it a strike.
Kenley Jansen being the all star closer that he is, he's going to get that pitch. Okay.
Okay. One, one count. Oh, you see my batting average. Terrible. Like what is Brett Phillips
doing up right now? Like that's, that's what people are saying. Like the, the people betting on
Tampa Bay during this, during this game right now, they've, they've turned their TV off probably.
Oh my God. They saw me coming up to the plate. They're like, well, I lost that money.
It's a lock. Yeah. Like little did they know? Little did they know one, one count. Here comes a
pitch. That's off. That's a ball off. Okay. So I gave it a little, it's going to show the replay,
but I stayed locked in as much as I wanted to. I didn't care. I was like, you know what, good
things, something good is going to happen. But again, Ken, that's off the plate. Kenley,
it's close. Yeah. But Kenley Janssen is going to get that pitch. She's a veteran. That's just how
it goes. So he gave you a strike. That's why you got that. All right. One, two, count.
Just swing the bat Philly. That's what I was telling myself. Swing the bat.
In the, in the outfield, into the outfield. Taylor loves it. Oh my God. Right.
Right. Missed it.
Insanity, right? Like this does not happen, Danny. Like, I'm sorry. This is the works of God,
and that's who I give this credit to. And then there I am running in the outfield like an airplane.
Oh man. Dude, that's so wild. That must have been like peak adrenaline of a lifetime.
I explain it to, because where my heart rate was, well over 200, well over. It's, if you were to go
jump out of an airplane right now, or like some type of adrenaline rush to spike, that's the feeling.
Right here, I started seeing stars. I was like, things were starting to, look, I'm like, I can't
breathe. I can't breathe. The walls were starting to close in on me. People were tackling me. I'm
like, look, I'm telling them, Austin Meadows there. I can't breathe. KK Yellen wanted to give
him some love, but look, they're like, are you all right? I can't breathe. Yeah. He's like, are you
all right? There's Randy and I hope it shows. Look, I'm trying to gasp for air. You got cameras all
in my face, which was really cool. First time in my career. Okay. Yeah. So watch how this, look,
I'm locked in. And then once I saw it, once I saw we won helmet, helmet toss.
It'll show Randy falling right here. Boom. What a fall he misses reads it. Perfect. He was going
back to third base. Just the timing of this, if you dissect this play and the timing and the
stat cast and the, oh, here's a fun fact for you. The probability this is number two in history of
baseball for being the most like non-prob, how do I say it? Improbable. Improbable play the second.
It's the second in history. Really? Yeah. Like this, a walk off hasn't happened in the world series
since like the eighties. A walk off hit, I think. Really? Yeah. So again, like just,
dude, those guys to muff both of those catches, it doesn't happen with Randy falling down. Like,
I'm sorry. For me, that solidifies everything that I like that one play. Danny has solidified my
relationship with God. It's also solidified how I've gone about my business is the right way.
Like in a crazy story, how I got, I didn't tell you how I got to Tampa Bay was two months earlier
from the World Series. I was with Kansas City and I wasn't playing every day. In August, we had 27
games. I got to play in two of them. Start. I got to start in two or three. And so fast forward
to August 27th and I get traded. I'm like, what do you mean I'm getting traded? Like, I'm not even
playing for you. Who wants me? Who am I going to play for if I can't play for you all? Right.
And at the time, Kansas City was one of the worst teams. We were in a just transition, you know?
And so Dayton Moore, the GM calls me and he says, hey, we just traded you to Tampa Bay. But I want
to let you know that we did right by you. He's like, what do you mean by that? He goes, you had
three other teams that wanted to trade for you and they had better offers. But we went with your
A because we know is your hometown team. We know you haven't seen your wife in two months because
of COVID. We want to send you home to see your wife. And we just know, like, this is what you
would have wanted. And I'm like, but this is business. Like this doesn't happen. Why? Why did
you do that for me? Like, what do I owe you? And they said, well, we recognize how you went about
your business. Like you showed up each and every day. And regardless of your circumstances, we
knew you weren't going to play. But you didn't know that. And you showed up and you were the
best teammate. You worked hard. You know, you just made everyone around you better. You were an
energy giver. You know, something my mom always told me, you're either an energy giver or an
energy taker. And people who take energy, like it's draining. Don't do that. And so don't do it.
Don't do that. So Dayton Moore tells me this. Now fast forward, I get to play in the World Series
and I get to be a part of history because Brett Phillips went about his business two months before
the right way. Right? Like I would have never had that opportunity. I got traded on the basis
and foundation of being a good person, being like just being a good person, giving energy,
regardless, you show up to your work and things, the circumstances around you suck, like find a
way to pour into someone to be a positive impact through that and knowing, Hey, in the future,
you're going to get rewarded through that. So it's just to solidify when I say solidify how it
just that play solidified all how I go about my business. And again, with my relationship with
God, I'm not going to change. And even if baseball doesn't work out for me, like that's okay. I,
I, you know, I was in a point of my time when I believe God did show up for me. So he's going to
do that again, type, type stuff. It's deep, but that's how you're super fortunate to be able to
be playing in the town that you're from. That's really rare. Bless man. Like everything that
lined up for me to get to Tampa Bay and to be a part of history is just so cool. And that's why
I'm always looking forward to like talking to high school kids and, you know, people in general,
just who feel like, you know, their career or the path to where they want to be is just at a
stalemate or they're down on their luck. Yeah. That's super cool. Yeah. Haven't you also broke
like some crazy Babe Ruth record again? Another for me is a God thing. This record hadn't
like been broken in a hundred years. Babe Ruth, what is Brett Phillips doing above Babe Ruth
in anything? Like does not sound right. And Babe Ruth, he hit three, he had three grand slams
and 32 days, which is crazy. A grand slam happens because your teammates give you that
opportunity, right? Like for people that don't understand, bases are loaded. Right.
You're a grand slam is because other guys did their job. So it doesn't necessarily line up
like that all the time just because of how hard hitting is. Well, I got to come up to the plate
like three, three or four times in a matter of 21 days and I was blessed enough to hit three grand
slams in 21 days or 19 days as opposed to Babe Ruth in 30 days and it broke his record. And I
was just like, this is crazy at the time. I didn't think I was breaking any records, but then to see
that a play has been around for a record has not been broken for a hundred years and they ask me,
how does it make me feel? Man, like I don't know how to feel. Like I don't, that doesn't feel right.
Put Babe Ruth back ahead of me, even though I broke the record, keep him above.
Did it shock you when you learned this? Did you have any idea when it happened or did they
like, no, they just said, no, they called me and they're like, did you know you did this?
I was like, had no clue. Like, and this is one of the, this is just one of many articles that came
out. Yeah. Move over Babe Lou. Hey, what's it say? Move over Babe Lou. Here's, oh, because it broke
Lou Gehrig's record as well. Okay. Cause I had it inside the Parker, but that's wild.
You broke one of Babe Ruth's grand slam records and a grand slam is like, that's the best. So this
was actually an inside the Parker. This was to put the cherry on top. So this is what broke Lou
Gehrig's record. I was fired up. Fired up baby. I love this. I love this. Awesome dude.
But can you, can you go back out to the article? Read what it says, what I said.
It doesn't even sound right for the name to be in the same sentence as theirs.
That was, that was my quotations for my name to be in the same sentence as theirs. Wow.
That's how I felt. It doesn't. And that's how I felt at the time. And I still do. I still do.
Every time I do something cool, I'm just like, man, that's awesome. Like, right? People in my,
I feel like I look around. I'm one of the only ones, but these guys expect it. Like they're
so good and just so confident that they do something like that. It's just like, oh yeah,
how has that, how has this combined with like the World Series game walkoff? How has that like
changed your life or your career? Had those like, could you say that those are that specific play
at the end of that game in the World Series had enough, like a crazy effect on your career?
Crazy, crazy effect in the best way, brand deals, getting paid to promote things and
you know, be able to play video games and get paid a lot of money, being able to do speaking
engagements and get paid a lot. Like it's changed because it's given me confidence
in what I'm speaking about. It's made me happier in a sense of not the plays have made me happy,
but just happy that it's solidified how I've lived my life. And I've been be able to be blessed
to something as big as this, which I think is huge, is super cool and humbling. So when I talk,
I'm way more passionate. I'm way more confident in what I'm saying works. It works now, right?
You can't tell me how I can live my life and what doesn't work because I've solidified that.
Has it also changed anything like on the team, like team-wise, like where they like,
how often they put you up to bat or how? Yeah, I had a career high in at bats last year.
Like I had the best career of my, my best year of my career because of that hit. It gave me
opportunity. It gave me more chances to be looked at because quite frankly, I may have been on the
backside of my career. If I don't get traded to the raise, I get traded to another team. I wasn't
playing well at the time. You look at my numbers. I was not a good baseball player and that one
little at bat has just given me way more opportunity. Now, I have to recognize that and be like, hey,
it's, it's an opportunity, but you still have to take advantage of it. And I, and I feel like
I've done that and I'm going to continue to do that until they rip the jersey off me. Yeah,
that's cool. One other thing, another thing I wanted to make a point to ask you or talk to you
about was, uh, like, um, what kind of routine do you have as far as like taking care of your
body and your diet and shit like that? No, I'm glad you brought that up. Um, I'm actually all
zenned out right now because, uh, I just got done doing hot yoga before I came here is my third
workout of the day. Uh, people think, you know, we have a strict routine during season or the
off season. It's, it's just as strict. Uh, Monday through Friday, Bri and I, my wife and I, we, we,
we wake up at like nine, nine 30. She gets up before me and, uh, we get coffee and we're at the gym
10, 30, 11 for a few hours. And then we come home, we eat, uh, whether she cooked something up or we
heat something up and I go straight to hit and I've got my baseball workouts for a couple hours.
And then I, I come home and, you know, Bri and I, we talk about things that need to get done for
baseball is fun or, you know, we, we spend quality time together and then I go do hot yoga, something
that I'm a firm believer in for injury prevention, uh, for just longevity. It's going to help me.
It's, it's helped me to this point. Um, so I'm very, I have a very strict routine even during
the off season. And then when it comes to eating, uh, I'm not so worried about a strict diet. I,
I'm not going to go crazy. It's the number one thing I see guys, um, do when I get back to
spring training is gain too much weight. Yeah. And, uh, but no, for me, I just work out so much
that it doesn't really affect. So, so you don't like, you don't like restrict any kind of certain
things like rich sugar carbs or anything like that. Like, no, I do take supplements though.
Okay. Yeah. I take a lot of supplements, which are NSF. Um, the team provides that for us and NSF
certified for sports. Yeah. But, uh, the team provides that. So I've heard like stories of
people, especially NBA players, like when they get to the flight, the playoffs and the finals,
you'll see, I've heard stories of like, they, like LeBron's team, they'll go out to dinner
and he'll eat just like steaks. All he'll eat is steaks all week. Yeah. You know, and then he
spends like after each game, he spends an hour in his hyperbaric chamber and it's just like,
cuts out a hundred percent sugar, cuts out a hundred percent carbs and all he eats is freaking
steaks and sits in a hyperbaric chamber. And you know, honestly, if I could afford to do that,
I would. And you look at the best athletes. He just bought one. That's awesome. I'm, I'm, Mike,
I'm getting in that baby. I can't wait to try that. 100%. But you look at the best athletes,
Russell Wilson, Tom Brady, these guys are spending millions of dollars, LeBron James,
on their bodies because they can. And if, if I could, I would, I, but now I take care of myself
in a more, on a way smaller scale, sustainable, sustainable scale. I wouldn't have a, I would
be betting at that point if I spent that much money, but I'm going to use mics. I just made it.
I just stepped a leg up in my career for that. So thank you, Mike. But no, I definitely see value
in that. And as they should, they're, they're, they're trying to milk every last drop out of their
career and stuff like that has been proven to help. So yeah, especially like those hyperbaric
chambers, they're one of the main things that they're good for is healing like any kind of injuries,
like physical injuries in your body. And that's not just good for your brain and for your whole
nervous system, but like healing actual fricking injuries, which is insane. Yeah. It speeds up
the process for sure. And I know that because when in 2017, when I was with Milwaukee, they had
their rehab guys with Tommy John and our knee injuries, they were in, they had a two portable
hyperbaric chambers they took everywhere on the road, like on the plane and everything.
So guy, they'd set it up at the clubhouse and guys would be there who were rehabbing for an hour.
So I mean, big, big major league organizations and definitely sports wouldn't have it if it
wasn't backed by some serious science and actually, um, you know, works. So
Did you say you do hot yoga every day Monday through Friday? Love it. That's, that's intense.
It is. And, uh, you know, I, I, I get locked in. It's, it's funny because it's me and like
10 other middle-aged women, like, you know, in the studio and they're just, they're just loving it.
They're, uh, they're enjoying, you know, and I'm just over there struggling, like
downward dog. My shoulders are shaking and they're just smiling and enjoying themselves. So
yeah, it's just, it's a, it's a challenge. I'm competitive. I love it.
Do you also like just sit in a regular sauna ever? Or is that basically like act as a sauna for you?
Same. It's, it's stretching in a sauna, right? It's like a hundred degrees.
A lot of people don't like it, but it's, it's a challenge and I compete. I get to compete in
there against myself and get better. It's fucking hard. I've done like 40, I think 40 sessions this
off season. How long, how many years have you been doing that for? I did it heavy in 2015 and 2016
when I was having my best careers and I stopped because I was getting injured.
Not like, not from hot yoga, but just other baseball related activities.
Hot yoga can only save you from so much, but I started running into other injuries that I had
to focus directly on in the off season, like going to physical therapist. So I was, I wasn't able to
do hot yoga the past two years. I did Pilates last year, which was good, but I, hot yoga is my,
my jam. It's one of the hardest things I've ever tried, dude. It kills me. It's, it's tough. What,
um, I was, I wanted to ask you, like, so like before, do you eat before a game? Do you wait till
after? Do you like, do you want to go in with a full stomach? Like, how do you do that? Because
it's, it's changed. It's funny. You say that, uh, definitely changed in the beginning. I was nervous,
so I couldn't eat. And like now it doesn't matter. Uh, again, through experience, uh, I can eat a full
court, like not a full course meal, but a nice size entree, whether it's pasta or a burger or steak
before the game. And then, um, they have meals after the game as well that I'll crush. Oh, that's
sick. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Funny story for you about major league spread. My first time going on a,
uh, private, uh, flight with a team, I show up and I just had a full course meal at the
clubhouse. They have a steak, chicken, fish every single night with some type of vegetable
and some type of side. So crush it. And now I'm going on my first flight. I have no clue what to
expect. Right. So we get on. Lady greets me, um, the flight attendant greets me with Chick-fil-A
sandwich, which Mr. Phillips, would you like the Chick-fil-A sandwich? Yes, please. Can I get some
ranch dressing? Great. Right. So I'm walking down the aisle and I'm looking in the, the bends where
people put their luggage, their carry-ons is filled with snacks all the way down. I'm talking like
fruit, candy, chips. And I'm, what is Brett Phillips doing as a, as a rookie? I'm shoveling.
I'm like, yes. Like, right? Like I'm looking around. No one's grabbing anything really. And I'm just
like, I want this peanut M&Ms, chips, give me it all. So I sit down and I start, granted, I've
already had a full course meal, Danny, right? Like, but this was all new to me. So I'm eating
my Chick-fil-A crushing some candy. Lady comes by. Hey, uh, would you like an appetizer before we
take off? Yes, please. What do we have? Some shrimp cocktail. I'll take one of those. So have
shrimp cocktail. We take off. We're in the flight. Oh, all right. Well, now we're going to serve our,
our entrees. Do you want a bison burger, a meatball sub, or, you know, like a chicken
entree? Oh, let me try the chicken. Right. So I'm eating chicken. We're about to land. Hey,
can I offer you a warm cookie or some ice cream? Please, would you like some milk? Yes. Like,
by the time I get to touchdown, I thought they were going to have to roll me out of there because
I was so just miserable from eating. And everyone was laughing at me. They're like, Hey,
everyone who's a rookie, we watch, do it. Like, I, you know, it just happens. It's so,
you're gorgeous. It's so, it's so exciting and new. Chocolate milk. Can I get chocolate milk with
a swirly straw? Yeah, literally. That's how I felt. I was like, what am I doing here? Give me
it all. That rules. So when you go on those flights, is it they do all the way down from like AAA
to like the top, the top guys? No. So you're taking a bus ride up until AAA. Okay. You're taking
16 or 18. No. And then in AAA, you're taking Southwest. So you're waking up at three in the
morning to get to the airport by four. And then you're on a plane with everyone, Southwest plane,
and you're in the next city playing a game that night at seven. And so that's just the grind.
What is like on a scale of one to 10, what's the difference between a guy on the AAA and like the
same town, same town. So what I always tell everyone, what differentiates big leaguer from
a AAA dude or AA dude is a mindset, right? Like you can only be so good talented. And
when you get to that level, everyone's the best. But how do they deal with failure on a consistent
basis? Right? You see a lot of guys get to the big leagues and they can't handle the, the,
the crowd. They can't handle the external circumstances that are going on. They can't
handle Twitter. It gets to them. And it's not that they're not athletic enough, but their mind
tells them that they're not good enough. And so that's what separates a big leaguer and a guy from
AAA. Okay. That makes, that makes a lot of sense. That makes a lot of sense. You have to learn to
really, if you have a terrible night, you have to just put it behind you. You have to be mentally
tough enough to be like, it doesn't matter. I went 0 for 4, 3 strikeouts. Like I'm going to get them
today. Forget about it. But it compounds and it weighs on you because you have so much pressure
and stress from everyone looking in your family, your friends. You don't want to let them down.
You know, the fans that you want to perform for, and then you've got the other side of people who
are like, I told you, you sucked. Like I knew you were going to be bad. So you just have so much
that you break down and most guys do and never get to enjoy what being a major league baseball
player should be about. That makes sense. Yeah. You want to talk about NFTs? What's your shirt? Oh,
man, that's an expansion punk. Oh, man. So, so before we go on this topic, right, before we go on
this topic, listen, I have empathy for people who are like, really, you just talked about all that
and you're going to talk about NFTs. Like I understand that we're going to see, you know,
we're not going to see eye to eye. And it may just be sound so crazy new, but like I understand. So
please, when I talk about it, just know that I enjoy it. And you think people are going to hate
on you? People have already hated on me hard. What kind of people are hating on NFTs? Yeah,
trust me, they're out there. And I think it's just people who haven't taken the time to educate
themselves on what it actually is. A lot of people just say, oh, that's a, that's a JPEG. Like,
why are you paying X amount of dollars for a picture when there's way more to it than just
people paying for, for a picture? Yeah, I've heard tons of definitions of it. What is, what is it?
Yeah, so an NFT is a non fungible token. The word is definitely subject to change just like
the internet was called Web 2.0 back in the day. And now it's social media. So NFT, it's a non fungible
token, which is a, you own a digital asset, which is super confusing and hard to wrap your mind around.
But I think about it from my sense of why I got involved into it and what attracts me. There's
multiple reasons and we can talk about them. But the metaverse, I've always grown up playing
video games. I am a video game nerd. What video games? Call of Duty, MLB the show, Fortnite when it
was popular, Apex, like first person shooters with a little bit of dabble of third person,
but I want to compete. And it's an opportunity for me to get on there with my boys who want to
compete and have fun too. So I prefaced it by saying, yes, I am a video game nerd. Now in the past,
parents have told kids like, hey, video games are a waste of time. You're never going to get anywhere.
Well, yeah, to a point. Tell that to Tifu. To tell, yeah, tell that to people who are making a ton
of money doing it by streaming. Now you add in this concept of metaverse play to earn,
like, which is mind blowing. So let me break it down. You have a kid who's playing Fortnite.
How many parents are giving their kids hundreds of dollars, maybe thousands over the years to buy
skins, to buy different. Basically, that's a digital asset. Like they have different skins or
outfits. Different skins or outfits to give them, to make them look different. And they can show
to their friends like, hey, I've got this type of skin. Well, that is all fake currency. That is not
owed. Like that is going strictly to Fortnite. Now you do have to select people who are streaming
like Tifu. And that is a small percentage of people who are making a sustainable income by
streaming. But that is for content. But that content is giving Fortnite way more exposure.
And people are going to want to pay for that. Well, now with the metaverse,
okay, I pay $60 for this NFT. That is, let's just say someone paying $60 for a disc to play a
video game. And now during the game, I can stake my NFT while I'm playing and earn real currency
that can be sold for crypto or Ethereum. Like if I buy a skin in the metaverse, it is worth money
in real life. Like I think about these kids who have been paying hundreds of dollars for the last
years, a couple of years on a Fortnite skin. This is allowing that money to be real currency
to get back. Like they only, let's just say they have a skeleton skin. They only put out a thousand.
And you got in early enough to claim that skeleton skin. I think it's like five bucks on Fortnite.
But in the metaverse, you got in early enough, you claimed it. Well, a year from now,
that skeleton skin, how much is it going to be worth? Because they didn't make anymore.
So that skin can be sold for real money, real currency. If you're going to take the time to
play a video game, you might as well earn money back from it. To me, that's really cool
that we can get to that point that you can own a digital asset. Now, second thing, social status.
How many people out there are on Instagram right now going to their fake private jet or, you know,
a fake, they got their fake Lamborghini and they're taking photos with it and they're gaining
social status from fake photos. You cannot prove that Joe Schmoe is not take is, that's a, that's
his fake private jet, right? You can't prove that with NFTs, it's on the blockchain. Everything
you buy is, it can be tracked back. It's proven. You own it. You are not flexing anymore. Oh,
yeah, you are flexing, but you can prove that you're flexing. Like that is the other side of
like the blockchain that attracts people. For me, not so much, but you see all these rappers
who are buying Borde Bia club for hundreds of thousands of dollars, millions. What is that?
What are they paying for? Well, they're paying for utility. What's that utility? Well, they are in
a group, a community of people who are very wealthy, very educated, you know, they, they are
bouncing ideas off each other being in, in that community because they bought in or they bought
in at $5 and like have held for a year because back in May, these were a couple of thousand
dollars. Now the minimum one's going for like $400,000. It's jumped up that much and it's because
of social, social status, they throw parties together. That's their invite into, if you own
one of those, you can go, you can go hang out with every athlete, rapper, or just billionaire,
millionaire who has the Borde Ape. Borde Ape Yacht Club, it's called, which is really cool.
But that's another side of having an NFT is the utilities. So my question is who made the
board? Who came up the idea with the, for the Borde Ape? And it's like, what gives it value?
I mean, is, is it true that what, what gives it value is like more followers, more attention,
more fame? No, that's all marketing. Um, and that's why Gary Vee, he talks about 98% of
NFT projects coming out right now are going to fail is because they're getting pumped and they're
getting dumped. And your hat, these, these athletes and influencers are literally on a list
on the internet that these NFTs, it's a list of their rates. Oh, I'll promote your NFT for $100,000.
But what these influencers don't understand is that they're, they're promoting something that's
going to flop and a lot of people are going to lose their money. Yeah. You're, you may make some,
some peep, the top 2% some money, but the people who have one or two, like that floor is going to
drop and influencers are not thinking about that right now. Right. They just have people,
they have managers being like, Oh, we got, we're going to million dollars to pump this NFT. Yeah.
And it's like, hold on, hold on, take a step back, educate yourself on what you're promoting.
Like for instance, I, I got, and I, I'm an advocate for it now because I don't want people to
dive in headfirst like I did. Um, let me preface it by saying I used supplemental income that my
wife and I agreed on, uh, to set aside and be like, Hey, this is X amount of dollars. It's not
going to affect us either way. You know, you want to try and, you know, get into this. This is all,
all you, all we've got that I'm going to use. And I was like, okay, I'm going to, I'm going to get
into the metaverse. This is going to be great. You know, and I started on NFT on Instagram. The
NFT, um, Mark Cuban owns it by the way, which is outrageous because he doesn't know what's going on,
which doesn't, he probably does, but he's making so much money because you have to pay
that Instagram page to market it on that. So I'm looking at like, Oh, so and so
it's coming out with his NFT athlete or rapper. And I'm like, man, that would be awesome. If I get
one of those, you know, I think with his social following, he's got, this is going to take off,
right? And sure enough, I get in the, there's so much hype the first day it's being marketed by
influencers and then boom, flop. And people, there's two types of things. People can run away from
the project and since it's web three cash out, yeah, you, you have no, it's, that's why there's
needs to figure out some things with this. Um, they, or they just don't put the time and effort
into it. This is a full-time job. If you put out an NFT and I educate people like someone who's
putting out an NFT, make sure they're doxxed, meaning make sure there's information out on who
they are as a person, because people like that will have way more, um, of a mindset to try and
make it work than not because people can put out a project without telling the world who they are.
They can hide behind a profile, which is sketchy. And those are the projects that get marketed,
pumped, and then the dude runs away from the project. They call it rug pull,
literally run away with your Ethereum. And that happened to me on a project. And I was like,
this is unacceptable. Like there is so much cool that can come from this, but so many people are
getting scammed. And I'm like, I got to do something about this. So what, so, so basically what you
just explained is like, if you're going to buy an NFT or invest in some NFTs, you want to make sure
that the artist that's created it, you know who they are. They have a profile. You can find them
or someone who represents them. Articles. Yeah. You know, go on Twitter, type in their name,
see what's been said. Like this is all the research that no one, I didn't do because I wasn't educated
enough that people aren't doing because it's so new and confusing that people are like, oh,
I have a couple grand and I'm going to make a million dollars in a year. But it's like, whoa,
take a step back. Like there are projects being pumped out daily. Right. And most of them are
going to fail because they're just trying to put something out super quick, take, take, take a little
money, but, and then they're, and then they're gone. And you're like, whoa, Brett, why would I be
some, why would I even go somewhere with that? Well, there's so much good on the other side
that it outweighs the bad if you know what you're doing. And for me, I've been able to leverage
my platform, meet people in the space who are super educated, very well respected. And my platform
has given me the ability to make those connections. And it goes back to leveraging and maximizing my
career. So when the time comes to transition outside of baseball, I have different avenues that I can
pick according to what I feel passionate about. Could this be one of them? Maybe. I enjoy it so
much. I've put in a lot of time. So with what can be good on the other side, joining a community
and gaining utilities from it, that actually matter. They're talking about a Dow, a decentralized
autonomous, you might have to pull it up. But yeah, it's DAO. It's a Dow. It's a community
Dow. I never understood what the hell Dow meant. That's the community's money. They can, they from
the sales of a percentage of the sales. So like a community, I am like expansion pump. So community.
So we're talking about a community. You're talking about that basically like a collection,
right? Correct. So like the board APE. There's only 9999, which makes it super valuable. Okay.
It's because it can't be replicated. Right. It's on the blockchain. So you get into one of these
communities like board APE yacht clubs and they've got a Dow that's already been set up since they've
already been around for a long time and they make decisions. It's decentralized, meaning the whole
community votes on what that money goes to with a board of like 16 from different countries inside.
So to even get to that point of voting, it's going through a decentralized
like recommendations from the community as well. So then like charities, events,
staking, meaning like let's, let's get money back into our pockets, things like that. And a lot of
its gray area right now, because it's so new and confusing, the government hasn't kind of regulated.
So I don't know too much information about the Dow aspect, but I know it can do,
it's going to do a lot of good. There's like 800 ETH in one of the communities I'm in,
which is a lot of money. Wow. Yeah. That's expansion punks? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or there's,
I'm sorry, there's like $900,000 in the community Dow, which is, it's in Ethereum. So Ethereum could
take off and double. Right. That's going to benefit, man, I'm telling you like, so, and that money
cannot be dispersed without the community's voice. Right. Everyone has to vote. Everyone has to vote.
Wow. That's insane. So what, what's the expansion? Expansion punks. Yeah. So I was on the end of
my NFT career. I had been screwed over time after time with marketing schemes.
Really? Yeah. How much money did you lose? I haven't necessarily lost it because maybe
those projects might be rebound, but a couple, couple grand. Okay. Yeah. But no, with expansion
punks, I was looking for, I was shopping. I was, I lost, I lost a couple grand, but I'm up way more
if I were to check out right now. Right. Right. Okay. Until I found like, again, expansion punks.
So it was on a Monday night and expansion punks, let me give you the background about expansion
punks. Punks larva labs put out the punk pro project back in April of last year. And one of
those at the floor goes for, I think $200,000. One, just one. And what happened was
the, one of the directors of Microsoft, he's Doc's Jeremy Posvar was in that project.
He had a punk and his daughters, I mean, he's, he's in Microsoft. He's on his computer a lot.
His daughters recognized what he was doing and they wanted to find themselves in that project.
And so they're like, yeah, like he's like, yeah, let's try and find you one at the time.
And one of his daughters was like, I want a girl with a hoodie and they tried to find a girl with
a hoodie. Well, it wasn't, it wasn't in the project, right? Only men wore hoodies. Right.
And then, and then one of his daughters was like, I want to wear, I want to have a cowboy hat and
only the men had cowboys. He's like, man, this is such a great project. Like I give all credit to,
to larva labs, but I want to build, I want to expand on it in a way that's more inclusive and
diverse. And I'm going to put it together. And with web three, you're, you're able to do that.
No pixels match up. Right. So like it's, it's different from, because a lot of NFT projects
will just take someone else's project and like flip it, and then they can sell it, which is messed
up. But this, but Jeremy, the director of Microsoft took the time to change everything up,
made it more inclusive and diverse, and he put it out and no one, no one wanted it. Right. So it
took three months to mint out, meaning all 9,999 were bought on, uh, uh, are minted. And then I
found it the night after it minted for 0.06 ETH, which is like 200 bucks right now. So I bought two
and I'm like, this is it. I'm done. After this, if this is another one of those scams, I'm done.
But I heard Jeremy talking. The dude sounded super educated. He knew what he was talking about.
I had been doing a month of research. He was checking all the boxes and this project started
to head in a, in a upward direction. And I'm like, you know what, this is something that I could,
I could represent. Like I can promote because it's safe. Right. Like as a professional athlete,
you have to be aware of what you're promoting and who's promoting it. Something like this,
I can put on my cleats during the major league year, have my, my expansion punk, which is a guy
with purple hair. He's a little crazy, right? But it, it promotes diversiveness and inclusiveness,
right? Like things that if I'm going to surround myself with people who love and respect people
in real life, if, and I'm going to take the time in the metaverse as well, like I want to surround
myself with those type of people too. Like I'm not going to hang out with cool people in real life.
And then when I go into the metaverse, cause I'm a nerd, I don't go into the metaverse.
Not yet. I will with Oculus. You don't put the VR on. I don't have them yet, but I want to.
Yeah. I'm getting there. So, so I gotta educate myself. So soon you'll be able to do like hangouts
and meet and greet in the metaverse. Exactly. And then in that community,
in the expansion punk community, like there's already been buys of like $70,000 one got bought for.
And for me, I want to, I want to know that guy. Like I want to know his story. He has something
to offer and I have talked to him and he's, uh, he writes back in code, um, for, uh, he's his own
company. He, and he does the analytics. He can, his, his software can do the analytics of your NFT
project. And he's made a ton of money from it. And he's just telling me, he's like, yeah,
and telling me all about it. And he's awesome. And I'm like, I would have never connected with a guy
like that if I didn't get into this, which is really cool to me. I just want to meet everyone.
But anyways, it started taking off. I called my buddy Lance McCollers,
who is, uh, a pitcher with the Houston Astros, him and I kind of have been tackling the NFT
thing together, having fun with it. And I was like, yo, this is a cool project you should look into.
He, he buys to 0.07, right? The next day I, I get a couple of other athletes and now granted,
everyone who's bought into this project has been on their own money. Like the people have,
I have close to 30 professional athletes. Now Paul George is in there.
Is that what Odell Beckham was wearing there today?
He has the, the regular, the actual punk or the first punk. This is the expansion version.
Okay. But yeah, he's got, he paid like a million dollars for that, which is insane. But anyways,
we have close to like, we have hockey players, um, basketball, baseball. And what makes it cool,
it's been organic growth. Like all the athletes, this hasn't been, we haven't been paid to market
it. We've just all bought in on our own, right? Like our own dime. So we want to work hard to
make it work because I have all the faith and trust in the world. And Jeremy, who has been at
Microsoft for 15 years, like he's going to do the best that he can to make this project work.
And now I think the floor last time I checked is at like 0.3, which is a thousand dollars for one
of them. That's the cheapest one. The cheapest one you can buy in, in Ethereum. Um, and it's gone
up to 0.8, 0.9 that the night that we had announcement with, which is also a pump and dump,
right? Like we had a huge announcement that I was going to rock expansion punks on my cleats this
year. First MLB player to publicly say that I'm going to rock an NFT on my cleat because I'm a nerd.
And we built, we, it was, it was hyped up to a point where people were just trying to make a buck
and then try and get out. But this project isn't, it's a long-term hold. Like we have a Dow with
already close to a million dollars in it. Like that, that money is going to get dispersed somewhere.
You want to be around for that. And so we got pumped all the way to 0.9. You could sell for
close to $3,300 for one of them. I have 11, by the way. Um, but it's, but I, but I got in early
and, but something like this, it, all the other successful projects started out like this. Like
they were minted for 0.08 or Gary V sold his for like 0.5, which was on the higher end 2000.
But now you can't sell one for less than 50,000 of Gary V's NFT. Back in May, he's put out and
and he's doing it right. Um, and you just have to educate yourself to find those people who are
doing it, right? Because let's be honest, not a lot of people can afford a $50,000,
let alone a $300,000 expansion. There's a, you're, you're talking about 0.2% of the population.
Um, but again, that's what, that's what makes it so exclusive, right? Like the people coming
into this, that this like the, I guess the first project of this status. Okay. What am I buying
into? How can I maximize a lot of people put it as their profile picture and they're instantly viewed
as status. So when you make that your profile picture on Twitter, you get this one, not necessarily,
but like, I'm just saying there are projects like the board API club that if he puts a tweet out,
that people are going to automatically like think that his words are legit or like holds
weight because he's an owner of a board API club, which is worth X amount of dollars.
Bro, you got to get, you got to get you to buy a board eight. We got to get, we got to get my,
yeah, yeah. We got to get him that too. We should, we should get a like a group of like 10 people to
buy a board eight, a board eight because they're only heading up right now. You get in the floors
that like 80, 80 ETH for a board eight. I'm talking Britney Spears a little bit, like all these
rappers, athletes, people of status own one of those. Like I want to know so bad what they're
talking about in those discords and they have a, oh, they give you access to a specific discord.
Yes. Oh, so that's part of it. There it is right there. Look at the floor price. So, okay, scroll
down. The cheapest one is 83 ETH. Go to buy now right there on the left. Buy now and then click
on the first one that has a buy now right there. 83 ETH. Click on that. Jesus. $267,000 in ETH right
now. You can get that board API club. Now, what am I buying? Right? So I'm buying something that
like a stock, I believe is going to be worth way more in the next five years.
I believe so 100%. I believe this has a chance of being a million dollars at the floor price
because this is one of the very first NFL successful NFTs that have came out that a lot of this is
just at the floor. There is a lot of board eight yacht clubs that have already been bought for
over a million dollars. So like, here, go back. This fricking monkey is like a Lamborghini. Yeah.
Oh yeah. Go. Yep. And then just scroll down a few clicks. Scroll down, scroll down, scroll down.
Right there. Right there. Click on that one. This guy right here jumps out of 278. So, and
it's, yeah, it's insane. Okay. So I go on there. I buy now. I pay with ETH. Yep.
$278,000. What do you do next? So I just get to like, what happens after that? Okay. So
I would think that there is a process of, first of all, you and your company is going to get put on
every social media outlet. NFT is going to say, Mike Wheeler from Audible just bought a board
eight. He's a hearing eight. Like you will be, they're going to publish that show? Yeah. You
get published. Really? Yeah. So you're going to get all that marketing. So you get crazy clout
all of a sudden? All of a sudden. Crazy clout. Whatever. And then the community wants to know,
okay, who is this guy or who is this girl that bought this? This guy's got money. Who is this guy?
If you have any social media, you're getting followed by the whole community. You're instantly
put in the discord, which I think is probably really cool conversations going on. Who knows
what they're brewing up, right? I looked at part of their roadmap, what they've got. They've got an
event, a three day event, three or four day event coming up in New York. First night is a warehouse
party. You, all you have to do is- Oh, so if you own one of these, you have like exclusive access
to parties and shit. Yes. With all these rappers, athletes, and billionaire, millionaires. That's
insane. So you have access. You own a plus one. Hey, what's up? Like you show your wallet. You go
into this party and you're just chilling, networking, right? Like who are you? Everyone in there wants
to know each other because you're in like, it's like wearing a sports jersey. Someone walking
down the street is a raised fan. They're instantly cool to me. Dude, that's freaking cool. No one
ever explained it to me like that. So now you have a rapper that has one performing that night at
the warehouse and you're just whatever you like to do you're doing. Next day, they've got like a yacht
party. They've got a bunch of speakers that come in and talk. And then you get to, not only do you
own the NFT, you own the rights to the image. So you can create like the Board Ape Yacht clubs.
You can put your, you can maximum, you can, he could have like hearing aids in his Board Ape
and, and, and that will, you own the rice. So meaning you could like print merch and sell it.
Yeah, exactly. Okay. You, yeah. So you can, well, however you want to put it on your side of your
jet because I'm telling you this, these images will in the next year will be seen by, by everyone.
And you, you, if you owning one, I believe you're like, again, dude, you got to get a Board Ape.
You got to get a Board Ape bro. I don't want to encourage him to get one. We should buy it right
now. Oh man. But you know, I will say the people who I've talked to and have been networking with
are people who have been around knowing that Ethereum and Bitcoin was going to take off.
They're the ones that have had a couple thousand dollars invested in from the beginning
and now have just millions of Ethereum and not, they don't know really what to do with them.
And with, with, besides just sitting there and hold it and hold it. So they could get a Board Ape
yacht club, right? When you see a lot of these people who like they've been around, they can get
a Board Ape yacht club for like two, it's 200 bucks to them because they're playing with house money.
Right. Exactly. You're basically transferring it to another. But for me, if I'm going to educate
myself on something that I'm passionate about, those are the people I would want to pick their
brains and be like, how did you get in early on crypto? It's so mind blowing. Like the last
time something this confusing came out was when social, like 1999 and 2000, when, you know,
the internet was a thing and people didn't understand that you could instant AIM, instant
message. And like your parents were scared to put their credit card in, in, in the website, right?
Like then now you, you, if you don't want to educate yourself, like I believe that this is
as confusing, but as popular. And you just look at history and you're like, man, like, yeah,
that makes sense. So that's why I just have been going down the rabbit hole and educate myself.
Cool. Do you, do you, um, do you have like a strategy like investing due to, but do you have
a lot of your money that you put into crypto? Like, like, so I, it's funny. I started last
off season, got into heavy. I loved Pokemon growing up, loved it. Um, and Pokemon started
becoming popular last year and the year before during COVID, uh, because everyone was sitting
at home and collectibles started booming because everyone who had saved money to go on vacation
because of COVID, they just had money sitting around. They're just like, you know what, I want
to collect, that was me. I wanted to collect, have like a game room of stuff that I enjoyed
as a kid Pokemon cards. So last year I went on a mission to go on, um, like Facebook marketplace
and kind of trade and buy and sell Pokemon cards. Like I was trading a Brett Phillips signed
baseball for like a Charizard, you know what I mean? Like that's, that's valuable, that's
valuable to them. And that charge that Charizard is valuable to me because I want to display it.
Well, I just started getting so much Pokemon cards. I was buying them too that I had to
start selling them. And then when I made some profit, I was like, I'm going to take this profit
and put it into Ethereum. So some crypto. So last off season or like in May, I had Ethereum
sit in my Coinbase wallet will come, uh, November when I started educating myself on NFTs. I already
had the, a little bit of Ethereum to work with because of my Pokemon trading. And that's when
I wish I would have took like 10 hours or 50 hours to educate myself before just spending it,
getting in hype projects. And yeah, that's kind of, that was the background of why I got in.
That's cool. That's cool. You're straight hustling on Facebook marketplace.
Hustling, you know, and I was loving, I was meeting up with kids and like their parents,
they're like, we didn't believe it. Like I would have to FaceTime like a 15 year old kid who wanted,
you know, 200 bucks and a signed baseball for me. That's another thing with NFTs, right? Like part
of the, the contract could be like, for example, if you buy this NFT, you get a signed baseball
on a FaceTime with that. Yeah, the utility. I'm getting, I'm constantly getting asked to go on
podcasts, right? Like I physically cannot go on everyone's podcast, but, well, thanks for coming
on mine. Yeah, of course. You know, but that's just the reality of it. I mean, so, but I could be in
an, have an NFT that gave it a utility that, Hey, if you own one of my NFTs, you get one podcast
for me to come on your podcast once a year, no questions asked. Like that's pretty cool. Or you
could get assigned Jersey. Like if you're number 3,156 in the project, you're getting assigned Jersey.
But for me personally, I don't have the time and effort to know and to like, I know I could make
an NFT successful, but I'm not just going to throw out a project like all these rappers and other
athletes are doing without educating themselves and without putting themselves in a position to win.
And for me, like during the season, I know the foot's going to come off the gas with me educating
myself on NFTs, NFTs, because I have to go play baseball. That's my lit, my livelihood. And this
is just a hobby. And so if I were to put out an NFT, it's a full-time job. You have to be in the
discord. You have to be talking to your fans with me joining a project like expansion punks. I know
all the back end works getting done on behalf of me in a smart way, in a way better way that I,
like putting together the Dow and stuff. But I can come in whenever I wanted to discord and say
what's up to everyone, but not feel the pressure of having to entertain my own fans who bought into
my project. Does that make sense? And that's where these athletes and rappers and people who
influencers who are putting out their NFTs aren't taking into consideration because they still have
their career going on. And they're abandoning their, who I think are the most loyal fans because
they took their hard-earned money and wanted to invest into that. And next thing you know,
they're not, they're not, they're not thinking about the future. That's what it comes down to.
They're, they're not, and it's going to bite them in the butt because takeoff, for instance,
migos, they put out an NFT and they've kind of abandoned the project and it's, they haven't made
any announcements or, you know, last time I checked, they hadn't, but it's like, dude, just show up.
Like I know there's probably a lot of stuff going on, but you did not just sell millions of dollars
worth of your NFT to your most loyal fans, not for you to come in their discord once a day to say
what's up. Like that's what they bought. That's a utility that you offered them. And so I know that
I can't give that, provide that right now. And that's why I would never, but when I do,
I know it's going to be, and if I ever decide to, I don't know if I will, but it would be done properly
just like I do everything else in my life. Right, right. That's cool, man. Bro, we just did like two
hours and about 10 minutes. That's crazy. Holy cow. Time flies. Dude, thank you for doing this so
much. Tell all like the listeners and the viewers where they can find more about expansion punks
and then you on social media also. Yeah, I appreciate it. So Brett Phillips,
Brett underscore Phillips should pop up on Twitter and Instagram. My wife and I,
we own a peril business. Baseball is fun. You can find us at baseball isfun35.com.
It's a really cool movement that we've got going on. And then expansion punks is found on OpenSea,
which is the secondary market, which is eBay for NFTs. That's all it is. But all I ask is if
you're interested in getting into NFTs, please be smart about it. Have money set aside that you
cannot care. You do not care to see for the next year because for me, it's, if you don't have a ton
of money and you aren't treating it like the stock market trading, you're going to screw yourself.
So this is a long-term investment. And also do your research on any NFT project you are being
influenced or told about. You go to Twitter, you type in what the NFT is, you find the director
or the developer, I'm sorry, you put his name in, see what he's all about and do your research before
you invest into that project. I will say all my research checks out for expansion punks. I can't
say that it's going to be $500,000 in a year, but I believe it's going to head in a nice direction
in an organic way. This is not financial advice, by the way. That is just strictly what I believe.
And again, I have empathy for people who are like shaking their heads saying,
this is stupid. I don't understand. You have your opinion and I do and we agree to disagree.
And you're going to be wearing the cleats though. I'm going to be rocking the cleats.
I'm going to be rocking this hoodie showing up to a big league stadium. It's going to get seen.
And it's a project that is safe for me to promote and I'm going to stand behind it.
Hell yeah, bro. I love it.
No, thank you for having me on. It's really cool what you've been able to do with your career
and your platform. So keep it up, man. I appreciate you doing this for me and allowing me to shoot
the breeze. Hell yeah, dude. Thank you again. And thanks, Mike, for hooking it up.
Yeah, Mike Wheeler from Auto Bell, my man. Goodbye, world.
