Um, what's up, Matt Cox? Thanks for coming back. All right, we're back. What's up, Matt?
All right. Little buddy. Little but yeah, that's that's why you you you you got to get him a chair
like a big boy chair. I offer him that one. Why don't you like that? You don't like the chairs.
No, those chairs suck. You like that chair, Matt. Be honest. Do you like that chair?
No, I don't. Okay. Fair enough. Why not? Because it's a piece of shit. Do you like that one better?
No, I don't want to sit that low to the ground. I'm already low enough to the ground.
But yeah, so what's up? Not much, man. What are you saying? You got a
automatic rifle pulled on you? Yeah. On a date there today? Yeah. Guy pulled the. What the fuck
happened? What was it on a date? I had met this girl through a friend, a mutual friend of ours
named Vessar. And I'd met her. He set me up on a date with her. I go on the date with her.
And then when we're on the date, like she didn't really know it was a date date. She kind of thought
it might be a date, but she thought I was an author and wanted to write her story. Like she wasn't
sure. But she looked so she looked me up and saw that all she knew was like, Hey, I got this buddy.
He wants to meet you. He's he's a he writes. He's a he's a writer. So she was like, Okay,
so she goes on the date with me. And as we're we're on the date, she immediately starts kind of
telling me her story. Like just and I was looking at her and like halfway, like 10 minutes into it,
I'm like, like 10 picks are in the picks are in 10 minutes into it. I'm like, what's going on?
What are we doing here? And she goes, What are you doing? She goes, I'm telling my kind of my
story. I went, What do you think this is? And she goes, I mean, I thought you wanted to meet me
because you are you interested in my story. And I was like, No, no, this is a date. And she was
like, Oh, wow, I'm sorry. I thought maybe you wanted my story. I go, Do you have a story? Like,
I mean, like, I just drove like an hour and a half to meet her and out at an outback near her.
And I'm like, Do you have a story? And she's like, Well, I kind of do. Like, she started explaining
it to her like, I mean, her husband fucking her husband died, like, there's drugs, like she kind
of she has an interesting story. But as we started talking, she said, um, she said, Yeah, man, I'm
sorry, I don't really date. And I was like, Well, why don't you date? And she I go, Why not? She
goes, I I said, because your husband just died, he died like six months or a year ago. I said,
because your husband died. And she goes, No, no, she said, we've been separated for like two years.
She said, No, like two years ago, she said, I came down with cancer, I have cancer. And I went, Oh,
wow, like, I didn't know that I said, I'm sorry. And so anyway, um, so I said, she said, Yeah,
that's why I don't date like, I mean, because I she said, with the kind of cancer she has,
it's some kind of slow progression. And it's you can fight it, but it only gives you like another
year. Like if you take chemo, she's like, so I might have two more years left. And she was super
thin. But I thought thin, like sexy thin, you know what I'm saying? No, no. Now it's now I'm
looking at her like, no, it's cancer thin. So, but look, I mean, beautiful chick, blonde hair,
blue eyes, she had fucking tats and stuff like she's like everything I like, right? And anyway,
so I was like, Okay, well, tell me your story. Because, you know, she said she never got,
she's really doesn't get out. She's just kind of trying to raise her kids until she, until she
passes. And so we at the end of of, you know, so I'm joking with her. Anyway, by the end of
into the dinner, she says, Hey, I'm having a really good time. Do you want to go play pool?
I went, Yeah, sure. I mean, what am I going to say? No, I mean, she's got fucking cancer,
like I'm gonna do whatever you want to do. Let's do it. So we go, we play pool. She beats the
hell out of me three games in a roll. She's like a fucking shark. So at the end of that,
when I go to leave, it's like 12 o'clock. I remember she stopped me at my car and she said,
You know, can I tell you something? I go, Yeah, what's that? And she said, I wish this had been
a date. She's had a really good time with you. And I don't get out much. And she said, I had fun
and you made me laugh. And you seem like a great guy. And I was like, Hey, well, look, it is a
date, we'll go out again. And I'll cook tomorrow, I'll call you and we'll go out again. And she was
like, Matt, like this ends, I die. Like you understand this is what this isn't.
It doesn't mean you can't go on a couple of dates. Right. That's what I said. First of all, I said,
I could die on my way home. Right. I said, you could die of a brain embolism tomorrow morning
that has nothing to do with cancer. Because nobody knows. So I said, Look, we'll go out.
I like you. You like me. We'll see. Maybe it'll work. Maybe three dates from now, we hate each
other. And she was like, Are you serious? I was like, Yeah, she's like, I said, Look, I'm a big
boy. I know what I'm she's, I don't want to do that to you. I said, I know what I'm getting into.
I said, Oh, hey, if you don't want to go, she's no, I do. I'm interested. I'm interested. I was
like, Okay, great. So we talked for like two or three in the morning. You know, I drove home,
we're on the phone, we're talking the next day we talk next day, we talk, we're about to go out
again. She ghost me. Totally ghost me. Nothing. No response to my emails or my texts. I'm like,
What the hell? So I sent her a text. This is, Hey, listen, and I go over all this on my podcast,
like it's like an hour long thing. I'm giving you the reader's digest version. So we can get the AR
50 abridged version. Yeah. So, so we, um, so I end up sending her things saying, Hey, listen,
I don't know what I did or what happened. But given your situation, I hope you have the best
result possible. You know, you seem like a nice person. I'm just disappointed that we didn't get
to know each other better. I'm sorry. I said, and if I upset you, you know, I'm sorry, but
I would have liked to have gotten to know you and I sent it. No big deal. Like I'm, I'm on,
I'm going on in the next one. Well, like a week later, I get this long ass text and on my podcast,
like I read the whole text, you can read the whole thing. Like I have the Siri read the whole thing
and it just, it's like, look, it's not that I'm not interested. You don't understand. My husband
died. I feel guilty. I feel guilty about being happy. You understand that I'm going to end up
passing away. I feel bad about this and goes on and on. So we end up talking on the phone. So I
text her back, look, let's just talk. So we talk and she says, look, I talked to my daughter,
my daughter said, look, this guy, he, he knows, he's an adult. He wants to meet you. I mean, he
wants to date you. You deserve to be happy. You don't have to spend your last two years just
driving us around. You need to be happy. And if you like this guy, you should go out with him.
So she goes, look, and I'm sorry, she's on the phone crying. I mean, this is one date.
So she's like, look, she's like, you know, it's just, I can't believe that you know that I,
I'm going to die and you're okay with that. You're going to be okay with that. And I'm like,
yeah, I'm going to be okay with it. Like, you don't understand, I'm all in. It's a bank theory,
right? Like I'm not going to the bank with a note. I'm going on with an AR. I'm going with an AR
and I'm taking out with the contents of the vault. You know what I'm saying? Like I'm all in. If I'm
all in, I'm all in. So anyway, she, she's like, look, if you're willing, then I'm willing. Let's,
let's do this. Let's, great. We end up talking for the next couple of days. Again, once again,
on the phone, she's texting me all the time. It's great, super, just smart, sexy. And you know,
the cancer thing, whatever, we'll see what happens with that. So we go to, we're supposed to meet
that night, ghost me again, ghost me one, like three days later ghost me. I'm like, what the
like, I don't know what happened. So like a week later, my ex-wife calls me and she's like,
Hey, what's up? You know, what's going on with this person? What's going on with that person?
I talked to her. Yeah, this and this and this. No video. You know, this one, you like her? I like
her, but this is the problem. Well, what about this one? I like her, but this is the problem. What
about this chick? I like her because, you know, there's problems. She's, what about the cancer
chick? She's, you really liked her. And I go, right. I told you, she ghosted me. She goes,
yeah, but you don't know what happened. I said, well, no, I don't know what happened. She's,
you know her address? I went, I mean, I can figure it out. She says, you need to go to her house
and find out. And I went, nah, that's, I know. That's a little weird. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh,
no, no, no. Trust your wife, your ex-wife's trying to get you wet. She's trying to get me killed.
I know. Listen, I know I'm with you, but keep in mind, this is also the chick that every time I
got indicted prior to the indictment, she's like, look, I know that your friends got indicted and
you like them and we like them. They're good people. We don't talk to them anymore. I'm like,
what? She's like, they were indicted. They're going to roll over on you. They're going to,
I'm like, they would never do that. Like if you understand every time I've been in trouble,
she's told me, this is what's going to happen. Stop now. Do this. Get rid of this. Do this.
I never do it. I never listen to her. Is your ex-wife, is she in the American Greed episode of
you? No. No. No. She's always avoided the, always. Yeah. She's, she's, she's good. So,
you know, so I sat there and she convinces me going there. I'm like, that stalker material.
She's like, look, you show up, you knock on the door. If she opens the door and says,
Matt, get out of here. She says, leave. She's, but read me the text. So I start reading her
all the text. She's, she never once says she doesn't like you or she's not interested. She,
all she's saying is like, you're an amazing guy. You're a great guy. I like you. I want to date you.
She goes, you don't know, Matt. She could be in the hospital. You don't know what's happening.
Just go to check it out. She's for her to just disappear. That's weird. And I went,
yeah, if I show up and she's like, what are you doing here? I'll just leave. You know,
I can't have the cops called on me. Like I'm not in that position. I'm not stalking you.
So I drive out there. I find her thing. I drive out. Wait, wait, wait. How did you find her
address? Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, I know her name. I know her husband's name. It's,
it's public records. She, Hillsborough County. No, no, no, no. This is, this is out and it's
another, I don't want to say whatever it was. So you search this county's public public records.
I find her house. Oh my God. It's not hard. So I track her down. Yeah. I don't know how to do that.
That's crazy. Property appraiser. Property appraiser. Yeah. So I track her down. I mean,
I know her real name. Here's the thing, like literally, like she doesn't even use her real
name, but she told it to me. Her husband's last name when we were at dinner. So, and it's like
a Russian name, but it's a common Russian name. So anyway, I go that, well, it's a European name.
So I go there. That's the cop. So anyway, okay. So you got it, Matt, for people out there who
don't know the context of that, Matt has a lady cop texting him. Yeah. I have a, I have a chick
that I've gone on a few dates with. That's a police officer. Matt's slinging dick all around
town. That's not true. That is a, that is a lie. Not what's happening at all. He might only be five
foot four, but he's slinging. Five, seven with a good pair of shoes. Five, six, you know, listen,
can we not do this? So here's what happened. So I go out there to her house, to her house. I'm
almost to her house. And I call up like, and Kayla calls my ex-wife calls and she goes,
are you almost there? And I was like, yeah, she was, stop. And I go, what, what? She goes,
go buy a Publix. And I went, okay, she was get a dozen roses. You can't show up with empty handed.
She was, it's like a romantic gesture. It'll be great. And I go, are you fucking serious? I said,
I'm telling you right now, I'm already looking like a fucking idiot. I said, you like, like this
can't get any more embarrassing. You want me to have roses? She goes, yes. I go, okay, fine.
So I stop, I get a dozen roses. It's like 25 bucks, 20 bucks, whatever. I grab a dozen roses.
I go, I pull up to the house. I don't see her car, but I can see that there's people inside.
And I know she's got a couple of kids and I know she's got a roommate that's blind
that she takes, guys she takes care of. And I thought, a guy she takes care of?
Yeah, he's blind. So she, he lives in a spare room. They pay her and she kind of, you know,
social security disability. So I'm like, look, and I thought, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to go down there. I'll knock on the door, whoever answers the door, I'm going to say,
hey, my name is Matt. Her name is Alyssa. Hey, my name is Matt. I'm here for Alyssa.
If she, you know, she, oh, she's not here. Okay, it's fine. Can you give her these roses? Tell
her I stopped by and then I'm leaving. Like I'm already like, listen, I'm already feeling
uncomfortable. So I walk down there. I'm walking down the sidewalk about to get to the front door.
And suddenly her car pulls on the lawn. It's, it's out in the sticks. So they park on the lawn.
Like, it comes roaring down. Oh, you're like out in the sticks. Oh yeah, bro. Yeah, I'm out there.
It's bad. Are there any, how close are the neighborhood houses? I mean, what county is this
in? Is it Polk? No, it's like Castle County or I forget. Like a Cala area? It's like,
whatever, above Orlando. It's like, yeah, it's like a Cala. Yeah. So I can't, I don't remember
the exact name of the county, but the point is, is that I'm in the middle of Florida, where the
shit goes down. Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of pickup trucks. When you get a wolf like a couple
hours from any coast and you're in the middle of Florida. Yeah, it's, it's just, I mean,
it's really good shit goes down. Is there make America great again flags flying? Oh, yeah.
I'm, I'm, you know, I'm not prepared for this. So, so the car pulls right on down right about
five, 10 feet away from me. It stops. And I think it's her. So I turn, I'm holding flat,
like I'm holding flowers. I'm in, I'm in. Just to the nines. Bro, I'm in a tight t-shirt and,
and skinny jeans holding a dozen flowers. I mean, I might as well be homosexual. I mean,
it's, it's that bad. I look that bad. It's that embarrassing. I'm just like, I'm as,
I'm like a helpless little puppy. What time, what time of the day? It's eight o'clock. It's dark.
Oh, it's seven, seven, 30, seven, 30. Okay, keep going. So, so the car door opens. Boom. And I
think it's going to be her. So I'm like, Hey, what's up? It's her car though, right? Her car. Okay.
Boom. Guy stands up. He's like six foot four with two inch heel cowboy. He's like six foot six.
Stand up. Country looking guy. Country, bro. He's got a fucking baseball cap.
He's got a, a wife beater on. He's got torn blue jeans. I mean, he's, it's bad. Like hunter.
First thing I thought of was one, slender man. And two, he looks like a hunter. He's super skinny.
Like he looks, and he also looks like a hunter. And I remember he stands up and he goes,
Hey man. He said, uh, you here for somebody? I went, uh, yeah, I'm here for Alyssa.
I threw some bass in my voice. Yeah. Yeah, bro. No, um, what the hell? This is bad.
Oh, it's, oh, it's horrible. So I, so I go, yeah, I'm here for Alyssa. And he goes, he said,
um, all right, I'll get her. He walks off. I follow him, follow him up the little, you know,
little sidewalk. I'm about 10, 15 feet outside the door, but it's total dark, right? So he opens
the door and I can see her inside, but she can't see me. I'm in silhouette. So he opens the door
and then he closes the door. Then he opens it again. He goes, Hey bro, or he kept, kept calling me,
um, uh, Bob, he, yo, Bob, Bob, yo, Bob, what's a, uh, he said, what's your name? And I go,
my name's Matt. She knows who I am. And he goes, says something, closes the door, opens the door
again, closes it and walks right by me, walks over to the car, opens the door, leans in the car,
comes back out. Boom. He's holding an AR 15. And I'm like, huh, then he goes walking right.
And as he's walking by me back in the house, I go, I'm still holding the flowers, by the way.
I'm like, well, that ain't good. And he just doesn't say anything. Like, I thought he was
going to be like, Oh, it's not a big deal. There's a power move. Yeah. He just walked right by me
again. And I'm thinking, I'm all, now I'm thinking, this is a bad idea. Like, I don't know who that
guy is. I do remember she had told me she'd only dated one guy since her, she and her husband split
up, dated him for, she was like, we dated for six months. She said, then he basically stalked me.
She was like, I had to get her straining order against him. And she said, he won't,
won't leave me alone. She's, he still comes around. So I was, so I didn't know that that was him.
That was him. His name's Chris. So he walked right by me, walks in, opens the door, closes the door,
the front door of the house, front door of the house. And I see her. Now she's standing way
closer. She see you. Oh, she, now she definitely saw me. She knows it's me. Matt. And so he opens
the door. Then he turns around, he opens the door. He's holding the gun like this. He opens
the door and he goes, yo, Bubba, you got to go. And I go, excuse me? Like, I didn't understand it.
And he goes, yo, Bubba, he said, you got to go, you got to go. And I went, whoa, whoa, whoa.
I said, yo, bro, I said, I didn't know. Is that serious? My bad. I'm, I'm out of here. Sorry about
that. Didn't realize what was, didn't realize this was that serious. I turn around. I start walking
backwards. He's walking towards me with the gun. And I'm walking backwards. I get close to her car
because her car was right up front. Remember? And I take the flowers. I said, I'm leaving these
here because I don't want them. Boom. Those are for her. See you around. I turn around and walk
up. He goes, yo, Bubba. I stop. I go, yeah, what's up? He said, man, how'd you get her address?
And I said, it's on the internet. And he goes, is it? And I go, it is if you look hard enough.
And he goes, all right. And so I start walking. Then I kind of walk off. And he goes, yo, Bubba.
I said, yeah, man, what's up? He said, um, man, I'm, I'm sorry you're having a bad night.
That's what he said. Yeah. And I said, no, I said, listen, bro, I said, it's, it's, it's my fault.
I said, I thought I would make a romantic gesture. I clearly misread the signals.
I said, totally my fault. He said, I said, you know, my bad. I said, you won't see me again.
Turn around and he said, yeah, I know. He said, bro, I've been there. I've been there, man. I've
been there. I said, I get it. He said, but I hope you have a better night. I said, no problem.
I walk off. I get in my car. I start driving, call my ex-wife. And I said, I just had a guy
her ex-boyfriend just pulled an AR-15 on me. She goes, oh my God, you went to the front door?
I didn't think you'd do it. And I was like, what the hell? What do you mean? You didn't think I'd
do it? And she goes, why? I said, you know, I'm a risk taker. You know, I'm going to do it. And she
goes, what happened? And then I told her and she's like, oh my God, that's crazy. And that went a
lot better than I thought it was going to go. Oh yeah. Well, it could have gone bad. So I did.
Listen, here's what's funny. I did. So then I called Vessar, our mutual friend. I say, Vessar,
this is what happened. Vessar goes, holy shit. He goes, that's Chris. That's her ex-boyfriend.
She's got a restraining order against him. I didn't think they were seeing each other again.
He's like, otherwise I wouldn't have hooked you up with her. And I was like, right. And I said,
bro, is all of this real? Like, does she really have cancer? He goes, no, no, she's got cancer.
He's no, that's true. And then he starts telling me about the two of them and they shouldn't be
around each other. They're bad for each other and they keep going. He goes on and on. And then he
ends up saying, he's like, what are you going to do? I said, well, I got to do a podcast on this.
So this is hilarious. Only this would happen to me. So he said, yeah, definitely let me know.
So I do the podcast on my channel and then I release it. When I release it, he contacts me
in the comment section. He said, yo, bro, he said, this is the guy with the, his name is Chris.
I forget, mixed something. Anyway, he said, this is, this, I'm the guy with the AR-15.
He said, I'm sorry you had such a, or I hope you ended up having a better night. I said,
no, Chris, I appreciate that. I said, I'm, he said this in the comments. In the comments. I said,
I'm just glad you didn't shoot me. And then he said, by the way, he said, when I removed the gun
from the car, I removed it just to keep it in the house for the night. There's something called
the castle law. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know that. Right. He said, so he said, and, and when I opened
the door, he said, I never had my hand on the trigger. I'm sure, I'm sure he didn't. So I came
back. Probably not even allowed to have a gun. Right. He probably knows what the fuck he's doing.
Right. Well, I came back and I said, Chris, I said, I'm not trying to get anybody fucked up.
I said, I understand how the castle law works. I said, you're fine. Don't worry about it.
And then that was it. I haven't heard from him since. Or her. Oh, but this, she, like, she blocked
me on Facebook. She did? Yeah, because what's funny is after I left, she didn't. But when the video
came out, she did. So, and I also put pictures of her. Like, I've got. Did you talk to her at all
after that night? No. I got, oh, I got put multiple pictures of her on, on my podcast and him. I went
on his podcast. Stop. I went on his Facebook and I took pictures of him. Oh, fuck. No, they never
asked me. Let me see. Let me see a picture. I don't want to show it, but I just want to see it for
her. No, of him. Yeah, because I got a picture of him in my head. Me too. Listen, I'm telling you
right now. I'm picturing Kid Rock. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's exactly what it is. But from Joe Dirt
movie. David Spade? No, not the regular. Kid Rock's in that movie. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So not like, not like the on stage Kid Rock, but the Joe Dirt Kid Rock. It's exactly when I
picture. Oh my God. This, this is, man, I wish we could call it. Why not? Come on, bro.
He's not, he's not, he's not as country as I thought he was. Are you serious? No, look, look at the
next one. Everybody's. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the picture of it's, see the picture, here, let me show
you. Oh, yeah. Oh, shit. See the picture of the two of them shooting. He, Austin's trying to get a
glimpse of this motherfucker. Okay, show it to him. It's just another mid-florid guy, man. Yeah. That's
what they all look like. He looks like, he looks like, he listens to tool. Let me show you. And nine
inch nails, of course. He's listening to fucking Hank Williams. Yeah, he looks like, he looks kind
of like Hank Williams Jr. Honestly. Or no, Hank Williams three. He looks kind of like Hank three.
You want to see what she looks like? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Right. She might work at the strip club.
Right. That's a stripper bikini right there. Right. Does she work at a gentleman's club?
Hold on. No. Are you sure? No, I'm sure. I mean, trust me, Vessler told me, I mean, Vessler gave me
the fucking lowdown. Yeah, she looks like, she looks like a corn fed redneck herself. Bro, like,
you know what's so funny is like everybody, like Vessler's like, I don't think that's your kind of
girl. I'm like, no, no, bro, that's exactly my kind of girl. And he's like, nah, bro, like, I mean,
I don't see you with this shit. That is definitely Matt's kind of girl. Trust me. That's trouble.
Yeah, that's my kind of girl. Trust me. But yeah, she's clearly, she's, I don't know. It didn't work
out. Yeah, clearly. But you know, and I got the AR 15, but I did get the podcast out. I got a good
podcast. That's another story. Another page in the book. Lucky, he was very, he was extremely
reasonable. That's what I thought how I would expect some sort of fucking meth up red. If you
have to get kicked out, kicked off a piece of property, at least he didn't even point it at you.
No, no, it didn't point at me. I mean, he was very nice. He wasn't like, look,
you're looking at me. I'm like, come on, you know, I don't have a gun. You know, come on,
you know what he could have been like, he could have been like those two old white people in front
of their big mansion. Basically what he was. No, those two people that there was the lady,
like she had their finger on the trigger and she was like holding the gun out like that. Like,
and the guy had his gun and he had his hand, his finger on triggers holding it completely wrong.
Like they didn't, you could tell like they've never held guns before in their lives.
Now he's clearly a gun guy. Yeah, he knows what he's doing. That's a fun story. Yeah,
he definitely knows what he's doing because I'm not going over there again.
That's a great fucking story, Matt. So now you got the lady cop.
Yeah, the lady cop. I can't talk about lady cop because that's going good because she's gonna
because she's going to buy that's as far as it can go. Like she's going to watch this and she's
going to be like, I don't know what she's gonna say. I don't know what she's gonna say. I don't
know what's going on with that. She's not a cop. She's in law enforcement. She's like Dexter Morgan.
Right. I can't believe you guys have seen that show, bro. That show is really good. You would love
that show. I mean, yeah, yeah. Oh, wait, you have, have you seen it? No, I've seen bits and pieces,
but I mean, let's, the fact is, is the guy's a serial killer. I keep same thing with the guy from
you. Everybody keeps telling me like, oh, that's, that, that's you. You're so-and-so. My friend
Stacy keeps calling me that guy's name. I forget his name, but she keeps saying, I'm telling you,
you're so-and-so. And I'm like, he's killing people. Why do I've got like three, there's like three
people that I keep getting compared to and they're all like serial killers. Yeah. How am I? I'm harmless.
It's the personality though, something about the personality. You have a lot of serial killer
traits, the sociopathic, very articulate, sociopathic persona. That's a comp. Don't act like
you're not fucking blushing. He's stroking. All right. What are we doing? I don't know. What are we
doing? I don't know. You called me there today and you were crying the blues. Why do you keep
saying that? You keep saying that like I'm saying they screwed me out of money. I've never said
anything about money. Vice scammed, so vice media scammed the world, the America's favorite
scammer. Yeah, that's what you should do. They conned me. Yeah, how vice conned. America's favorite
con man. Yeah. That's fucked up. That is fucked up. That's your title. I'd sue them. I'm not suing
them. There's no reason to sue. That's the whole thing. That's why they did it because they know
there's no real money involved here. Like it'd be different if it was a movie that made
$80 million, but now there's going to be a lot. Don't worry, it's coming next.
Well, yeah, that's my fear. They're war-doggin' you. Oh, shit, they are war-doggin' you.
Here's the thing. Okay, so the thing is I met this kid named Jacob Diaz. So here's what happens
with vice. Is this one of the stories that you wrote when you were in prison? Yes. This is one
of the guys you met. 20-some-odd stories that I've written. It was a kid named Jacob Diaz,
and so I wrote his story, and it's a story about this kid that basically, at one point,
he was homeless. His mother left him. His mother abandoned him. He ended up in foster care
eventually, but he was homeless. He ends up working for, I want to say it was like this,
Sinaloa Cartel. Yeah, right in the mic. Right in the mic. So he ends up working for like the,
like the, is it the new generation or Sinaloa Cartel? Anyway, whatever. One of the Mexican
cartels, and he ends up basically incurring money, arranging, like he goes through the ranks, right?
Well, so I write his story. So he and I, we, we, I end up writing this story for him,
and typically I have these guys sign like a life rights agreement, right? So I have him sign a
life rights agreement, and what happens is, as he says he's gonna sign the agreement. So I write
the story. I give him the agreement. He says, yeah, yeah, let me, let me look at this and that,
this and that. Well, when it comes time to write the story, he ends up getting transferred, and I
finished the story kind of, no, not transferred. He ends up going, he ends up going, being going
to halfway house before me. And so I finished the story, but I never, he never reads the story.
So, or the whole story. And so, but it never signs the life rights agreement. He keeps saying he's
going to, but he doesn't. So I end up getting out, I post his story on my website. And it's called
The Unlikely Narco. It's on my website, Inside True Crime. So I post it, it's a good story. And it's
a great story. I did a lot of research on it. I, I, I realized there's a bunch of stuff that he
didn't even know about his story. Like I had to do research on who this guy was and how he was
connected to that guy and all these other stories that are involved in his story. And, and so I
do a bunch of research. I do the Freedom of Information Act. I, I order all the documents.
I order everything from his docket sheet. Like I've got transcripts. I got everything. So I put
together this whole really great story. Well, one day, a couple years late, like a year or so
afterwards, I end up getting, I end up getting a, an email from Claudia Kist, K-I-S-T. So I get,
I get an email. She is a producer. She says she's a, she's a story producer for,
on True Crime, our True Crime series for Vice TV called I'm a Teen 8. What is it?
I was a teenage felon. I was a teenage felon. So she contacts me about John Boziak. She said,
and she says in here like, hey, like she had basically, she had found my story on John Boziak.
She was interested. Could I put her in contact? You know, she said, I see that you guys wrote a
book together. Can I, can you put me in contact with them? And I said, well, so I get her on the
phone. I call her and I said, look, the problem with John Boziak is that his story, I've already,
we've already optioned the life rights for his story. And she says, oh, okay. She said, wow,
you know, do you have any other stories like that? I need somebody who's young. I said, the only guy
that meets your criteria for Vice is this guy named Jacob Diaz. I said, I wrote a story called
The Unlikely Narco. I said, it's on my website. I give her the website. She goes to it. I said,
why don't you read it and let me know. I give it to her. She reads it. She comes back.
And she says it's, it's, it's great. It's a great story. So in fact, before I even did that,
because I had been talking to somebody else about a guy named Henry, before I even got a guy named
Henry Roosevelt, before I even talked to her and gave her the name of the story, I contacted Henry,
which is this one. And I put Henry, I would like to call Claudia regarding a story I wrote titled
The Unlikely Narco. Is that going to be an issue? So I sent that to him. So he comes back. He talks
to me and he says, what is it? And I explained the whole situation to him. And he says, yeah,
yeah, he said, I don't have a problem with that. He has a problem with that. He said, we're not,
we're not going to do anything with that story, probably. So go ahead and talk to her. So I get
her on the phone. I said, okay, look, I've got this other story called The Unlikely Narco. You
couldn't look at that. I give her the website, she goes to it, she checks it out, she comes back,
she says, man, it's great. That's perfect. I said, all right. And I said, she goes, can you put me
in contact with him? I said, I can put you in contact with them. I said, but here's the problem,
Claudia. I said, I've had stories stolen from me before. I said, now, if you just read that whole,
you just read the whole thing, she says, yeah, it's great. I said, so you understand, I've written
your entire episode for you. That's an hour long, that's an hour long script that I've written.
It's an episode. That's your whole episode. Right there. Right. And she says, no, I agree. It's
perfect. It's perfect for us. I said, right. So I said, I don't mind putting you in touch with this
guy, but I want an executive producer credit and I want 20 grand. And she goes, okay. She says,
I don't think I can do 20 grand. She said, the executive producer credit, she says, I may or
may not be able to do that. I need to call talk to vice first. She says, but I think I can probably
get you the executive producer and I can probably get you maybe 10. And I went, okay.
I said, I don't know. I said, let's talk to Jacob. I said, I think I'd be okay with that. I mean,
I'm really only concerned about, to me, the executive producer credit. That's what I'm most
Yeah, you want credit for. It's your story. You already wrote the dance.
Right. I don't care about the 10 grand. I care about the, I want credit. I'm building
your building a resume. Right. So she says, okay. And I said, you have to understand,
I said, I've written your whole, you don't have to hire a writer. You guys don't have to spend
hours putting this together. She says, no, it's perfect. Perfect. I said, okay. She said, well,
look, before I contact vice, my boss advice to get all this clarified. She's a subcontractor for
vice. Yes, that's what I'm realizing. I don't didn't know that. Yeah, that's how they make,
that's how they are able to keep that business running. Right. So I said, I go, okay. She said,
before I contact my boss, right? She's really a subcontractor, but she's saying my boss.
So it makes it sound like she works for him. So she's like, and she listened. She's,
you understand, they're, they're doing the whole show. Like they are, you know,
their contract with vice. So she says, let me call my boss. I said, okay, cool. She says,
I'll call my boss. She was, but before I contact him, she said, I need to know that Diaz is willing
to be interviewed. So I got, I've got to talk to him. And I went, okay, cool. I said, I'll,
I'll contact him. So I send, I said, I'll send him an email. I sent him an email,
and then he emailed me back. I said, are you still in Orlando? I've got a producer for Vice TV
that wants to talk to you. And I said, I can arrange that. I said, just, but I need to know,
are you still in Orlando? And he came back. He said, yes, I'm still in Orlando. And I said,
okay, cool. Send me your, your, your cell phone, right? Cause his cell phone had been changed.
And you, and your contact info, he come, so I contact her and I said, listen, here's his email
address. He came, he's going to send me his, his contact info, but go, I said, you can go ahead
and contact him and I'll get you his cell phone as soon as he sends it. I saw if he responds to you,
whatever. So she then sent him an email and like, so like some time goes by and I send her an email
saying, Hey, what happened? And she comes back and she says,
she came, so she comes back and she says, hi, Matt, I thought I had copied you on the email.
Apologies. Yeah. And then she put, here's a copy of what I sent, just so you know,
in case he reaches out to you first, then he said, fingers crossed, one of these avenues works.
Well, I never heard from her or him again. I called her. She didn't respond to the call. I actually
put, I actually had a call with her and Henry, Henry had talked to her too. And on the call with
Henry and the call with me, I said, look, I want to make sure you understand, I'm not giving you
the story. Like this is my story. I don't want to be screwed out of my story. She was absolutely
met. She's, that's not how I work. I would not do that. She, and she's, she's saying I work for
Vice. I work for Vice TV. She says, it's a credible company. I would never do that. She said, I assure
you, I just need to make sure that talk to him to make sure he's okay with it. If he's okay,
I come back to you. If it's, if you say no, it's no. I said, okay, cool. Because I'm the only reason
she even knows about this guy. And it's not like there's anything, there's no public records out
there. There's no articles. There's none of that. Like I think there's one, no, I don't think there's
an article with his name in it. So I'm the one that put together all the pieces, the whole thing.
And so I don't hear from her again. I called her once. I think I sent her a text. That's it.
Don't ever hear from her again. Don't ever hear from Jacob. Well, obviously, huh?
Should we expose her on here? Tell her, tell her name.
I already did. Her name is Claudia Christ. She's a producer. I can't believe you did that,
bro. Absolutely. It's, it's Claudia with a C obviously. And it's Christ with a K, K-I-S-T.
K-I-S-T? K-I-S-T. Okay. Kissed. And Claudia assured me that she didn't do business like that. She
wouldn't screw me out of anything. And I basically wrote their whole thing. And here's what happens.
It's exactly what scammer said. She got, she got to them. As soon as he got the email, he called her.
Yeah. She said, I'll give you 10 grand. Right.
We don't need Matt Cox. He already wrote the goddamn story.
Right. We've already cut the fuck out. We, we already got his story. We don't need that guy.
Why would I give him credit for anything? Yeah.
By the way, he wants 20. I'll give you 15. Yeah. I mean, so basically, and I don't know anything
about it. Don't know anything about it until later, a buddy of mine calls me up and says,
yo, bro, that Diaz thing, huh? I doubt they paid him more than 5,000 bucks.
Yeah. I agree. They're probably like, Matt wants 3,000. We'll give you five.
So they, they said, so my buddy calls and says, yo, bro, I saw the thing on Jacob Diaz.
There's a thing on Jacob Diaz, man. That's super cool. I go, what are you talking about?
He said, yeah, yeah, yeah. He said, I, the, the, um, the series, um, I was a teenage felon.
I went, he was, yeah, I was scrolling through it the other day. I saw Jacob Diaz. Yeah.
You wrote that story. He said, he had the cartel kid. I went, no, no, I wrote the unlikely Narco.
And he goes, no, no, it's Jacob Diaz. It's the cartel kid. I go, hold on. I go to the site.
Boom. I see it. I'm going.
Oh, I wish I, I wish we had that on footage. That's my story. I read that. I mean, literally,
I could have written it, the little blurb. I could have written it. It was taken directly
from my synopsis. Like, boom. Directly from your manuscript?
From the, I have a, I have a, I have the synopsis of the main, the main, the synopsis, but I also
have a little jacket cover, which is like two or three paragraphs. I mean, it's basically,
they just rewrote it a little bit. It's, it's, it's, I'm going, oh my God.
This motherfucker. So then, then I called Danny. I said, oh no, I called, I called Henry.
And Henry's, Henry, uh, the other producer I'm working with, he's like,
yeah, bro, he's, they're dirty. I don't know what to tell you, man. It's vice, vice is dirty.
His vice will steal stuff from people all the time. It's horrible. He said, the problem is,
is like, it's hard to, it's hard to sue them because the truth is there's not a lot of money in it.
And you go to some lawyer, what's the lawyer going to do? The lawyer's going to be like,
well, they have a lot of money though. They have a lot of money, but they're going to be like,
yeah, but the, you know, they, they have their whole system. He said,
his, their whole system is set up to rip people off. Yeah. Absolutely. Right.
So that if you end up with a lawyer, the lawyer's like, yeah, but when we sue, we'll sue this and
this and this and there's nothing to get. Like what did that episode make them? Right. Well,
are we going to make? Is it worth going to, and they'll going to fight us? Because they're,
they've got lawyers on staff. They're going to fight us because their whole business model
was based on ripping people off. Yeah. So anyway, so. Well, they, their, their business model
is based on like being a cool company and getting people to work there for, for little to nothing.
That is exactly, that is exactly what Henry said. Yeah. He said they get these interns
and people come and use it and they work them to death for a couple of years until they become
disenfranchised. Right. And then they say, I'm done. And then they quit, but they get the best
out of them. Yeah. Yeah. I've talked to, I know a lot of people who worked for vice for a long
time. One kid who actually is going to come on here soon. He worked there from the very,
very beginning when like the guy Shane founded it. And he worked there for fucking decades.
And then he just got fired like last year, but they sold, they sold the company off to investors
and it's not owned by the original. They, they cashed out. Now it's just run by who knows who.
It's, it's. Corporate. Yeah. It kills me. It's like, why do that? When, like, why would you do
that? When like, I've got a ton of stories, like why try and fuck somebody out of like one story?
They're taking that and they're onto the next one. Yeah. I know. It's a mill. It's a mill. Right.
So I watched the whole episode. You watched the episode. The episode is so watered down compared
to my story. I actually haven't watched it yet. Are you serious? Yeah. Like it's super watered down.
It's very watered down. Um, you know, he, cause honestly, let's face it with where the commercial
is. It's only 45 minutes. Like they, they, and they, it's funny. It's like some of the stuff
that they really focus on. Well, here's the thing. They have a budget. Wait, wait, you watched it
for the first time today after I sent it to you, right? Okay. So my whole thing is I'm watching
it. I'm like, why didn't they talk about this? Why didn't they do this? They could have done
b-roll here. They could have done this again. But the more I thought about it, the more I thought,
well, wait a minute, they have a limited budget. Like they really utilize the interviews. Like it's
almost all interviews because the interviews are cheap. Oh yeah. It's like basically a fucking,
it's a guy sitting on a couch like that. Exactly. With one camera and, or maybe two cameras and
they just cut b-roll in. Right. It's all b-roll. It's super cheap. So yeah, it's a, it's a super
cheap. And that's the whole thing. It's not worth like, how do you sue for that? Like, and not just
that based on that. Like to me, I was thinking, well, they didn't, is that theft of my intellectual
property? Like the narrative that I have, my story is so much better than that that I'm like,
I wonder, does that go anywhere? It's just not a great episode on this kid compared to this kid's
story. Listen, this kid's got a great story. Why have you reached out to him at all? I mean,
he and I actually, we actually met in Orlando to talk about him signing his life rights. And what
happened was when we were in prison, it was 50-50, but he never signed. So when we got out, I said
60-40. And he was like, oh, that's not right. I said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I've put in
significant amount of effort at this point. It's 60-40. I said, you had an opportunity. You then
tried to get, he then had a buddy come to me and try and get the story from me. When I was in prison,
I was like, but I knew, and I was like, I knew something was up. Like I know your friends with
him and he, that's a friend of Diaz's. And I thought, no, you're trying to get the story to send to
Diaz. Like, because you didn't sign, not that he could do anything with, like even this,
even this thing, like, I mean, even the vice thing, you didn't, you couldn't even do that by
yourself. It went through me. Like you're not going to take your story and run and do anything with
your story. If it doesn't go through me, because, you know, you're, you're just some
ex-con who's got an alcohol problem and fixes credit for a living. But by the way, he has called
me. Like that's why I client for him. Yeah. But I mean, he called like, I wouldn't give him my
social. Like he literally called me. Oh, listen, the stuff he was doing in prison. Like he would call
me several times when I was, even when I was in halfway house, he was calling me on my cell phone,
drunk, 11, 12 o'clock at night, drunk, just whatever you're going to do about this story,
bro. You know, I'm like, you know, what are you doing, bro? Like, yeah. So anyway, he, so I know
he wasn't going to do anything with it. So I went out and I said, look, 60, 40, and he agreed 60,
he was okay, fine. He was 60, 40. And I sent him the contract and I never got the contract back.
And while this whole thing was happening, so it literally in the same time period, this thing
happened. And I'm just assuming he's going to sign the contract. We've already agreed. No. But yeah,
the episode is watered down because he's actually has a great story. You have to admit it's gutsy.
This is a kid who's 18 starts driving around a cartel member setting up houses,
setting up, you know, drop houses where they, they, they store drugs, starts,
starts distributing the house, the drugs, collecting the money, setting up cars to move
through the United States to bring drugs to Orlando. And he's flying back and he moves,
he moves to Acapoco and lives there for several years and starts arranging drug. This is in the
middle of, of, of the cartel wars. People are dying left and right. And he's a, but he's an American.
He's an American, having an American passport and being Mexican American, he does any, by the way,
he doesn't look Mexican. It looks like a white kid. So he very easily goes back and forth between
Mexico. One time he actually got caught with money. They, the DEA comes, DEA comes in, they take
the money, they give them a receipt and they leave. They don't arrest them because they don't know
it's drug money. They said, but if you can prove where the money came from, you can get the money
back. He called a lawyer, the lawyer's like, look, you, what are you doing? You're saying you, you
made the money doing what? Mowing yards? Like what are you doing? You don't have, you're not getting
the money back. Like you'd have to claim taxes. You have to prove where it came from. This is
drug money. Like just walk away. So he just walked away. He's got a, how much money? I don't know
how many, was it a hundred or 200,000? And then he had to pay back the cartel. Oh yeah. Then another
time he gets chased by the cops, he throws like $300,000. He hides it, gets caught, goes to jail,
like three or four months later, gets out, goes back to the woods, gets the money. He's like,
because I can't lose more money. I just lost the money. I just paid back the other money I lost.
Like, oh, kill me. So he gets the money, goes back. But I mean, he's got a bunch of stuff to
chase him with helicopters. He has some great stuff. And this is the thing, like a lot of these
stories, like it was like, that seems far-fetched, but then I would get the police report in.
Yeah. They chased him with a helicopter. They even charged him with the, for the helicopter fuel.
So, you know, he's got interesting stuff and he does. He's traveling backwards. Then I read
the transcripts. Listen, the FBI, sorry, DEA agent, the DEA agent on the stand made him sound like
he was a huge drug dealer. Like he's, like he was practically a member of the cartel.
Yeah. Anyway, it, look, it's, it's a great, it's a great story. Yeah. It is a great story. The problem
is the vice version sucks. Yeah. Not impressed. No, I wasn't impressed at all. Yeah. None of
their new stuff really sucks. None of the stuff they're doing right now is any good.
Is any good? Not that I think. I don't know. Well, I mean, I, I, I've only seen, I've seen,
I've seen two, actually that one and another one called the queen of, queen of meth or something
like that. About some, the teenage fellow and his one aren't that bad. We had that other guy on
here that had an episode on there. Oh yeah. You know, the problem is like, if you just watched
the episode, you'd probably think, man, that's pretty good. Yeah. But if you read, but if you
read my story and then watch it, you're like, that sucks. Yeah. What, um, what other stories do you
have out there out in the market right now that are, uh, that have interests to like become
films or documentaries? You know, like Bozaks, I can't talk about, but you know, it's, it's great.
That's going to happen. Is it going to happen? I was definitely going to happen. Really? Yeah.
You saw the sizzle. I showed you the sizzle. I saw the sizzle. I, I actually, I don't think I saw
the sizzle. Oh bro, I got to show you. Do you have it with you? Yeah, but I can't play it. Like,
if Henry even knew I had, if they, if like, even if Henry sees this, he's going to be like, what?
Wait, who's Henry? Henry Roosevelt, the guy who, I can't even talk about this.
You know the production company? Yes. Oh, have they sold it? Yes. Look, what are you doing? So
anyway, I have, we don't have to tell Dita. Who cares? No one knew. Bro, because they freak out.
You don't have to say who it is. They freak out. I mean,
this is alleged. They don't watch this. Bro, they're going to watch this.
They're going to watch this. They don't watch this. Nobody watches this. Everybody watches
concrete. Talking about, listen, every time I get recognized, the first thing they say is,
I saw you on concrete. I'm like, we're talking about the first episode, not the fucking eight.
Oh no. Yeah. Cause nobody watches any of these anymore. Everybody's going to watch it because
Danny's going to title it vice scammed Matt Cox. See, I would cut these up. I don't know why you
don't cut up one, the AR15 one to the vice one. They do get cut up. Huh? They do get cut up. Yeah,
but that's on the clip one, right? Yeah. Two minutes, three minutes. Yeah. I think so. I don't
do it, but who does it? Somebody else that edits it and does all that and posts it. Like,
they run the channel just like your guy runs a channel for you. Right. Not Austin. Austin just
sits over there and wears fucking socks and looks cool and travels the fucking world. He just got
back from fucking Iceland or something. That's right. Where'd you get back from? Where's the
last place you went? Where? St. Shells. Is that a, what the fuck is St. Shells? Is that a country?
Oh, Madagascar. He just got back from fucking Madagascar. Is there anything I text in their
day? I'm like, Hey, we got a podcast Friday. He's like, Oh fuck, I'm in Madagascar. I'll,
well, can you Uber? Yeah. Yeah, right. He's in Madagascar one week, fucking Greece the next week,
fucking Antarctica tomorrow. Life is good, man. It's fucking well traveled. His Mom's hot, right?
And his mom's hot. I got a hook. We told me talks about your mom. His mom was hot. His
mom is hot. Everyone says allegedly. I've never seen her, but apparently she's hot. Did we have
pictures? I'm sure Austin's not going to show you a fucking picture. I'm assuming Austin's
smiling behind the screen, but he may be steaming. Yeah, she's shaking his head saying her. The
Fuck said that about my mom. Oh, let me see. What else what else what else? I
Don't know man
We got your NFT your NFTs coming out, right? Are we gonna watch the vice thing? You want to watch it?
I mean we can watch it so you can see how listen this kid gonna get it pulled up
This kid in prison by the way was thin in shape
Good-looking kid now. He's like a little butter ball
Um
The cartel kid. Oh, I know what I wanted I wanted to talk to you about the gisling Maxwell, right?
Yeah, yeah, I talked to Sean out. What about it? Did you the other day because he's a he's an expert in it
He's been studying. He's been up. Yeah, you probably know, but he's obsessed with it. Oh, oh, yeah
He is he's been making videos following Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell for the past fucking decade probably something like that
He's made hundreds of videos about him and he knows every single little detail about every part of their lives and their case and everything
And he he sat down this other guy and they basically like laid out all of the possibilities that for
All of the possible outcomes for her trial, you know, they laid out like four or five possible outcomes like mistrial
You know, they know like what she's doing. They like oh, she's annoying the judge
She's writing the judge these fucking letters every single day
And they're annoying the fuck out of the judge and a bad idea and
She's they they're like she's so arrogant like her father
Robert Maxwell the the billionaire
media mobile and
They're just like they're laying out like her personality how which how she's acting how she's treat acting towards the judge
Annoying the judge
they're talking about the jury and
I don't know the way they're laying it out they
They go over what they think all the possible outcomes will be. I mean, it's she's gonna be guilty, right?
I mean, she you've got it doesn't take in federal court. It just doesn't take much to get a guilty verdict
You think she'll be guilty, I think she'll be just leave him out there. Yeah, she'll be found guilty. Hello, I
Think she'll be found guilty really yeah
I mean it listen it just doesn't take my you you get four or five people on the stand that say the same general thing of what you did and
Then the US attorney says what she did was illegal and these people just told you that that's what she did
We're asking you is she guilty of that and they're all gonna be like well if you're saying that that this is what this is
What the law says if she did this she's guilty and then they all said that's what she did well then she's guilty
Yeah, she's guilty, but that's it. It's over right doesn't matter if it's here say doesn't matter if you guys all got together
It doesn't matter if it was coach. Does it matter if there's no evidence who's just laying
Did you see that they just had the pilot on the stand like two days ago the jeffrey's pilot?
Yeah, he was like and all those people that were on it who Chris Tucker was on the plane
Was it the Prince Andrew? Is it Prince Andrew? Oh, yeah, he was on a hundreds of times, but Chris Tucker was on there
There was a couple other just like random celebrities. What was it? What's the other the lawyer that was on there to the lawyer?
OJ's lawyer. No the Kardashian
Dad died a long time ago, man
No, no, bro. Epstein's been flying his jet around fucking the Bahamas for the last 30 years
Kardashian's dad represented OJ. No, I'm talking about Dershowitz, but he died
It was Dershowitz after that trial that trial. It was Dershowitz. When was that been dead?
When was the OJ trial? I don't know what you keep talking about the cardiac. It's not it's not him. It was Dershowitz
Oh Dershowitz, okay. Yeah, I was hoping which was also one of no, which was also one of OJ's
You know
So but a lot of the thing about that is like there's a lot of people that could have just been on the plane
That could have just been like, you know passing by
Like it doesn't mean that I'm your child molester if you know if if if you know if I'm hanging out with you
And then suddenly suddenly I find out you're a serial killer suddenly it's like oh, you're a serial killer too
Matt you hang out with it. What are you talking about? I don't know what this guy does on his off time, right?
Yeah, but if you're caught flying there
Yeah, but it's like a couple dozen times you want to fly to my like bill bill went there a couple a lot of time
It was on that bitch like a hundred times
You're telling me that's not suspect. Well, I mean he's suspect in general. How about the picture of bill wearing? Oh, yeah
Kevin Spacey because you know that motherfucker
My god, you know, he was fondling little boys
See doing there, but they probably just hired him to crack jokes while they were there
Oh, you know, he was fucking that guy T that guilty
Did you see the did you see that like the 60 minute interviews with the girls? Oh, yeah
I'm how I know that have you seen the interview with him, right?
Oh that lady and he's sitting there just like sweating profusely trying to like talk himself in circles and
Fucking lie and just why why would you even do an interview?
That was the biggest dumpster fire I've ever seen. That's a bad idea. Yeah, but um, but have you seen the picture of Clinton wearing the dress?
No, the pain. What are you talking? You got to put the painting of bill wearing the dress. He has a painting in that mansion there
I'm not gonna walk. We're not doing the vice thing. No, no, we will but I want to I want to begin
I want to show this. This is fucking hilarious. We got to get Matt Cox to do a
Rendition of this like you're all you should you already mentioned you should repaint this
We should oh fuck
Thank you said to do what's his name? And I was like Bm. Yeah, I was like
You should redo this man. This is a real painting. This is a painting that was in Jeffrey's
Epstein. No, it was mention on fuck Island
No, yes. Yes
What is he this dude's disturbed. Oh, yeah, huh?
Some fucking shit Matt you have to recreate this painting with your face on it
I should put Danny on there. Yeah. Yeah, I'll put it up. I'll put it up on the shelf back there
But yeah, I mean do you but so one of the things that Shawn was saying
He doesn't think that they the Clintons are gonna be named in the trial at all really
Yeah, he doesn't even think that like she does like she doesn't want to rattle that
Because they're on this in the golden ticket
She because they're in the Clintons are saying the Clintons are close with the whole Biden administration, right?
Right, so she wants to sort of like keep them in her good graces
So she doesn't want to name them or try to like
If they're not cutting out the jail time
You know, it's funny is like if if Epstein had been alive and gone to trial
I heard that he had trouble got sorry go ahead if he had gone to trial like like this chick would
She would have probably gotten immunity just to testify against them. Oh, yeah
But instead he takes his life and she can't get a deal like she's like no you're going to trial
No, no, I'll tell you about this guy and this guy that
You can't get a deal like it doesn't matter what she comes up with at this point
She they need somebody they got to get somebody he's got to get 30 years
So they feel like they got somebody so they're gonna put it on
I'm not saying she didn't do anything just saying in general. She could have got off
She could have probably got off and because she was really only the right hand. She wasn't she was a madame, right?
She's uh, yeah, the procurer, but um, I heard recently that Epstein had some shit wrong with him where he couldn't poop
He had he had something called up. Yeah, but there was like a scientific term for it called MS something like MS 15 or MS 13
No, they said he was scared of
MS 13 gang in the jail. Oh, is that a gang gang? It's like the most ruthless fucking is it really?
I've never heard it. What is MS 13? They're like the fucking. Yeah, they're like the Mexican killing machine. Yeah, yeah
That's they was in a protected wasn't me and sort of like a no
I guess he wasn't in protective custody because he was in a cell with like a killer
No, Epstein was in the cell MS 13
I heard I heard so I read that Epstein had some sort of disorder where he couldn't shit and
he was like fucking super stressed out because he hadn't shit in days and
He couldn't shit especially because he had that fucking violent cellmate. He was with taking pain pills probably. Oh, yeah
Probably so opioid it up opioids constipate you. Oh, yeah
I mean, I'm not sure they're giving you opiates in prison unless he's buying them
You know, she's buying something to snuck in mmm, of course half the cameras, but I don't know man
I've been there. Yeah, the cameras probably not hard to get pills. Yeah, I don't think it's that it's that
Outlandish to think that he did just kill himself. No, I think he killed himself, too. There's a very likely he probably killed himself
That's right coin flip. Yeah
But knows no, we're not gonna figure it out
But what about like I mean, you know, is he gonna name it like the crazy thing is who is gonna get named in the trial
That's gonna be interesting to watch
I mean, I don't think anything there's not gonna be like you've seen all these programs like the 60 minutes and the little
Documentaries on her and everything else like what else is gonna come out. It is what it is
Yeah, I guess that's only no, you know
There's not gonna be any any bombshells that are gonna hit because it's it's all out there anyway
All you got to do is tell the story that's already being told to the jury and get the people to stand on the you know
To get on the stand and say the same thing. What are do you know what the charges are against her?
There's like a handful of charges and there's only a couple people accusing her of the procurement stuff
So I guess it doesn't really have to be a full charge. I'm sure shot out with knows the charges
Yeah, there's only there's only a handful of them and that only involves a few
Victims well Austin Austin what she charged with you pull up her charges. I
mean, it's probably conspiracy to
You know to traffic minors, you know or sex traffic minors or there. I'm sure it's all conspiracy because
There's only one I think one girl that said she she was in on it like she actually was brought him in as like a
Right right right in her friends and she that she had sex with her too
There's only one girl that said she had sex with was involved in the whole thing and they had they had Jeff Jeff Epstein's
His housekeeper for 15 years would talk about how he found all the fucked up toys like giant double-sided dildos like laying around
Here's what I don't understand. It's like he reminds me of it's like this guy Marcus shrinker. It's like
You're already rich you're already a a top-tier individual like you're at the top of the pyramids not enough
Even crazier now I have to have a
three-way dildo and and and with
Fucking 14 year olds like what are you doing, bro? Yeah, I mean, what's it's it's not enough money is a magnifying glass
Just makes you more than you get the power and you just think you can get away with anything
With it for a long time the first time he did remember he got charged in Florida and he ended up getting what like a year
Nothing like any in a cell where you basically just had to spend the night in the cell you get to come and go as you want
The new charges extra spiracy. Oh, I was right nice
Sex trafficking sex trafficking of a minor so one minor right involving minor victim dash four
Victim number four maybe number victim for so there's John. So there's four victims
Was around 14 years old
So here's the other thing how there's no how come it's all
Sketches, how come there's no photos?
Well, you're not allowed to have photos in federal prison or cameras and in federal court
You're not allowed to have video cameras or photos. Why though? I don't know because like the written house
I know it was a state thing, but the written house thing was live streamed on fucking YouTube this one
There's not even a picture. You can't you know, you can't get a video. Yes. It is. It's on right now
Yeah, you can't get a federal you can't get a camera in a federal prison either like you cannot go in and take photos
You cannot have a a video camera. You can if you get like the warden to sign off on it
Yeah, that word more that they never will trust me. I had American greed
All dateline was able to video me in the US
Marshals custody but not the Bureau of Prisons custody. They just they made a policy and they decided and that's it. No
Well, why wouldn't they like why wouldn't okay? The reason for that is they were doing it up until it was like in the mid 80s when
Barbara Walters did an interview
Special on it was called and she they called it club fed
You heard the term club fed that was that's that was the name of their episode for like 60 minutes or 2020 or whatever
It was I think it was 60 minutes where they were talking about how look you've got these guys in a camp
They're playing tennis. They're playing golf. These guys are eating shrimp. These guys are eating lobster and they were it was amazing
Like it was amazing like going to federal prison was great
So she does this whole yeah, she does this whole thing and they and then then it came out
They were like these guys are being arrested. They're going here. They're eating a lobster
They're getting to pick omelettes and cheese and extra cheese and this and then they go off and they play golf in the morning
They go back and get counted then they go play tennis for two hours
Then they come back then they want they have TVs in their cell and so they were like this is like a this is like being at club
It's just like club med only they called it club fed and so sure enough boom Bureau of Prisons bulldoze the
Hey, yeah, I made them look bad. Yeah, I made them look bad. Yeah, and they said no more cameras
Yeah, from here on out the meat. That's the meat how the media is gonna. Thanks Portray. Yes, boom. We're done. So yeah
Thanks Barbara. Thanks bar. Wow. It's so weird though like even the courtroom like such a high-profile case like this
So they're not filming this trial. No, there's not even a fucking photo. They're not allowed to have
Cameras or anything. I'm surprised somebody flag number one. I'm surprised somebody
Somebody didn't come in with like a lapel
Yeah
You're right well like it's almost like they wanted to keep it on the DL from the get-go because it's like the written
How shit was everywhere and you and you could barely find anything on the on the Maxwell trial
Shit they don't want you to hear
Because the written house things probably more political more politicized more
Big big names with powerful names. Yeah, right, right
You would think that would be it. That's the conspiracy. It's a distraction
It is a distraction
Man
But um, but the lady who must draw those pictures she must be fucking quick with it
Can you imagine how fast you have to draw some of those photos of her Matt? You could do that. They're pretty detailed
I don't know that and they're pastels and yeah, she's got watercolor. She got an easel. She's over the like fucking Bob Ross
How do you get in the car exactly right like what a job that is they definitely can't pay you enough for that
Can you find out what the like a find out or the person that signed you know the person that like does the signing?
Yeah, yeah, or the typewriter wonder what it's called. It's called like a like a courtroom
Illustrator so you must be but obviously the person that does like the the ASL like the American Sign Language
You know for like like the White House conferences
Yeah, do you remember the one where the guy was doing it and actually couldn't sign at all
Somebody was like
What's going on in the courtroom sketch artist salary?
44 oh in between 99 that's a hell of a range
Medium salary 50 grand make 50,000 bucks in those co I wonder I want to see a video of them doing it
Is there a video of it? Probably not because if they're sketching it, there's no cameras allowed
There is
How do you become a courtroom sketch artist because they had they did that during like the OJ trial and shit too?
Yeah, I'm big trials. Yeah, they were filmed
Why not just video it's so weird
Some people want a timeless people want timeless art want to sketch you got a Disney world
Some people want a lot of all we put in all those cash those courtroom sketch artists out of jobs soon those sketches will be NFTs
Oh
Me I'm gonna be on the stand and you sketch me sure 45 bucks. No problem. Yeah, I would have paid for that
Can you can you have me doing like running? You know with the mic?
Get the judge in it sure was uh
Were there pictures of Charles Manson's trial? Oh
Yeah, I'm sure remember they were videos cameras everywhere the girls remember the girls were walking in at the same time wearing like the same
His was state though right not yeah, yeah, he's was still California State, okay?
Wow, man, that's so fucking weird
Just laying she's being protected just laying. Oh look here's a time lapse of it
Well, I want to see it in real time. She's what is what?
So I guess they they I mean they can sit there for a while, so well they have they're in there for hours
I guess they have time. Yeah
What a job
Yeah, I wouldn't want that job I want to get a courtroom sketch artist in here
Just lanes I want to get the one we should hire a guy to do that while we do a podcast with Matt
Oh, they could just sketch out that would be sick
For every episode we have a sketch thumbnail you need to come up with some something you're losing
People are dropping off right now
Dragon right now. Let's see your let's watch your video with your alright vice your teenage felon
Make this thing small like the corner or something
So vice doesn't fuck me. Well, they're probably going to anyways
They're probably gonna take all the revenue from this podcast how ironic would that be?
Got you again. You want to talk shit. What's her name? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, what's her name?
Claudia yes, Claudia. You know, I've called her I've called her and left messages like hey
What's up with this how that happened Claudia? You want to give me a call? Nothing. Oh, you sent her this no
I've called her and left messages saying hey, I just watched
This episode the cartel kid. Hey, you said this. Yeah, and I said which is which is
exactly like my
The unlikely narco I said, I'm just wondering how that happened
I'd love for you to give me a call back and let me know what happened nothing
Call twice. No, he doesn't return. He's not gonna return my call
You know what's so funny about that is like now what's gonna happen is I'm doing a true crime podcast
I've got another deal with with these guys in
This other production company, right? Like I haven't signed the contract yet
We're still going back forth
But if assuming I signed the contract right that his story is gonna be one of those stories. Well, guess what?
It could become huge now. He's gonna you know, he'll immediately be like hey, man. That's my story. Fuck you, bro
You didn't have a problem fucking me and vice going behind my back on vice when it came through me and your girl Claudia
And now if his story ends up being something turns into a series or a movie
I'll do everything I can to fucking cut him out. Yeah, like it's like what are you doing?
You know, like I just don't get how Hollywood does this was like like
It's just there's there's plenty out there. Why screw everybody over
Well, it's just like we talked about before many times like like all the IP for all I wanted was an all I wanted was a
Credit you can't here's what it is what it would have cost you
Okay, they're Cox's name now so it now shows up the same thing like the 10 grand like I was when she said I went from 20 to 10
I was like, yeah, yeah, that's fine. So who's name she'd come back and said a
Thousand do I get the do I get the the credit? Yeah, the credit. Yes, of course. Yes, you do
Give me a grand whose name is on the credit
Claudia oh my god, can you go to the end and yeah his names on it? I
Got 20 on Claudia's executive producer like who's the writer? That's what's funny like the producer Claudia
Could you imagine? Oh my god? Oh, by the way, I met that chick. That's who I met with him her with Diaz in Orlando
All right, press play give us some volume, too
This is now. Oh, wait. Oh, they're showing the credits here executive producers
No, well, you got to go back press play who knows or go back a little bit then press play
That's too much bro. Yeah, that's that's Diaz. Look how fat this kid is you should have seen them
Oh, that's Diaz. Yeah, he's a fat. He's a fat little fun. I play for me. I want to see where Claudia's name is
Another Haley Vance
Matt they got you on there. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa there Matt. Are you fucking kidding? You're fucking on there. No way
You got the fucking credit man, these fuckers haven't called me nothing. I didn't get my 10 grand. Oh
Are you serious? Hold on it's coming up. What does it say?
Consulting producer Matt consulting producer you fucking made it
Consulting producer. What is that? Oh?
My serious you just got so good. You're the consultant
That's ridiculous. I
Can't even return off. I can't I don't get return emails. I don't get calls
You have to call Claudian fucking thinker now until you're sure
Now you look at so you look like a dickhead. I
You're the con man consultant
First of all, it's not it's not consultant. First of all, it was supposed to be I was supposed to get a
Purchase in there. I can't believe you even saw that. I didn't even see that because I she's nobody's returned my call
Nothing, that's nuts
Where's my 10 grand Claudia? They didn't even write out Matthew. They just wrote Mac Cox
You know why like they threw that in there like spiked you. Oh, I got a call Henry. Hold on
I keep calling right now picture that hold on. Oh my classic get a picture of him standing next to it
Oh
Matt Cox is freaking out right now he he walked up to the TV to take photos of his credit on this vice video
You should be happy why you didn't even do your read you didn't look to see
If they just gave you the credit
Consulting producer it's still a credit man. Oh, I mean it's a producer credit
Yes
Consulting it's a producer. I wrote the goddamn
I want to see if quality is how you fucking feel keep going
She stole the story from me man, but they did they took the story like I'm not I didn't consult play from there
They took it
Stop she threw you in there for good morale
She threw me in there so that I want to try and make sure that I don't sue pause it on every frame where it shows credits
So there's one right before this like literally a second before this executive
What is executive producer pause?
No, Claude any of these people yet. No
Hope it compliance office. I better fucking be in here. We mine here. Yeah
What does it say COVID compliance officer anybody's getting that? Oh my god
Bro vice has COVID compliance officers. I think you everybody does there was a COVID in their credits
Well, you can't assume you get COVID when you walk out of that is fucking priceless
Keep going. I can't believe it. I
I
They thrown Claudia nowhere in there Claudia does not even get a credit. Keep going. She got paid. Oh, trust me. Claudia got paid
Andy Miller
Recreation is director photography Christina or TAGA keep going Jack Renner stop
Look how fat this kid is if you'd see it looks like he's related to Kim John if you
You'd seen him in in Coleman keep going. Yeah skin thin working out all the time
I'm great shape. What if she has like the biggest one at the legal counsel Matt. That's who you want to get a hold of
Kimberly Lord
Frankel Whitehead LLP the law offices of Lincoln
Bandlow
No, Claudia, bro. She don't need the credit. She got paid. What if she gave up her consulting credit for you? She didn't
Well, where's her name?
Getty images pond five
That's real meat of this thing when came from
Catherine white. What if she said? Oh, there's more producer credits keep going
Yeah, exactly executive. No Catherine whites been in here fucking dozen times already. Yeah, that's it
No, Claudia says the filming of this episode Sheila and Jacob have gone their separate ways. Who the hell's that?
What about Matt Cox? He's over here texting a way. I'm
Texting Henry
Henry
What if Claudia said, you know what look guys I got the story from Matt he can take my credit
Just give me the 10 grand. We'll call it even
Maybe she's not that bad. Yeah, she sounds like a pretty good good person. Oh, she never called bro. Listen listen
You know, they gave you a name on your credit. Will you stop didn't have to do that?
I've never heard anything about this like I've never heard anything about and first of all I wrote the story
I'm I'm I'm I'm an executive producer. I'm not a consultant consultant like that's something that's oh, no
All right, bro. You gotta earn your stripes. You can't just jump on my stripes. I wrote the story, bro
You can't just you can't just be it. You can't you can't just go from youtuber to executive producer, okay?
You got it. You got to pay your dues
This is this is a corporate media. We're talking about okay, not just some little YouTube podcast
I can't believe they fucking put you on there after all I can't believe you caught that
Watch the episode. I would have never caught that honestly not just that like the eagle eye. Why wouldn't I why wouldn't she?
He goes and they didn't pay you rehenry goes and they didn't pay you you got the credit. Why you need payment?
No, what do you first of all look?
If I'm talking to you and I'm saying look this much money and this you just blow me off and you give me this and never talk to
Me again
Come on, bro. That's not a deal. No, she gave she took the cheap way out
Right she's thinking hopped out. We gave you this
That's gonna be there excuse right lawyer, right? Well, my lawyer is not gonna call
I wasn't gonna call even if it wasn't there
I was gonna call because there's no money in this show and they've got it set up and it's all bullshit
And there's no way to get any money out and you got your credit even if you got a portion of the money
How much are you gonna get like you can't hire a lawyer to get you 10 grand like no lawyer is gonna be like
I'm gonna fight tooth and nail and in the end. I'm gonna get you 10,000. Well, what do you get? You're gonna owe me 60
Yeah, exactly
Right give me 10 now. I'll get you your 10. Oh, yeah, Henry's like what the fuck that's hilarious, man
But that's how that's how it is though. That's like we talked about before that's there's a you know
Production company heads of production companies and people like Claudia are scouring YouTube for podcasts
Like this looking for content to sell to companies like vice or to sell to Netflix. I mean you can't blame her
That's what they do they this is the we're like they're like farming for content by watching podcasts. Yeah, oh, they are listen, brother
I've had almost multiple people almost almost almost everybody but at least 70 80% is I saw you on concrete
I saw you on concrete. You know, that's why when people are always like bro. Does Danny pay you?
I hope you're getting it's like, well, what are you talking about the exposure that Danny gets me is
Worth anything he could have paid me like I was in the halfway house. I mean, I'm not saying I like Danny
We know we know we know Danny. Yeah, but I'm saying in general Danny. How dare you did me a huge service
Huge whether his that was his intent or not
He he how dare you question my intention, but it's what both hands here
Well, it is but he did he did it rep for me to sit here and say oh, I would have done it on my own
No, he irrevocably changed alter the the course of my life like honestly if I hadn't come on the podcast
Very good chance right now
I'm working it. Okay, maybe not McDonald's. I'm hoping I could Starbucks. I
Wouldn't mind working at Starbucks Barnes and Noble. I think Starbucks is a hard job, bro
Like those baristas and like they gotta know a lot of stuff. I'm not that sharp. I'm not I'm not new
I'm not gonna learn anything new. I'm all filled up. Yeah, there's no news new stuff coming here
Working at FedEx driving a truck or something. I'm not a bad job. I'm not saying there's a bad job
That's also a hard job. I want an easier. Let's go
Car salesman see I can never say car salesman. You would be a great car because
Listen, my ex-wife's husband is a car salesman just not truck salesman when whenever I joke around about I'm like
What am I gonna be a used car salesman? She's like, hey, hey, hey make money
I'm like, I'm not saying it's a bad job. You could be all you couldn't be a mortgage broker. Could you know? No
Oh my god, those guys make money the guy who got me my mortgage. He is counting money
I'll tell you what if you if he never came on the podcast Gary Sullivan's coming back right about now
Yeah, oh Gary's Gary would have shown it had an appearance
But you took the ball and fucking ran with it like no one else and I'm trying hey
I have a question. What about your deal with the with the mortgage broker when you called me you're like, he's charging this much
I'm like, call him back. Say this say that. Yeah. Yeah, that's too much. That's this plus ask him about the yield spread
Ask him about you. Oh, yeah, I'm calling right now. Oh when I was it. Yeah, I do my mortgage broker
I didn't know I said I've never dealt with them. I've only dealt with a bank for my previous mortgage
Straight to the bank. This was the first time I went through a broker, right? I was seeing all these things
I didn't know what the fuck I was looking at all these terms. I've never heard of ever all this stuff
I'm calling Matt every day like what the fuck is this mean? What the fuck does this mean this guy scamming me?
This guy's squeezing me dude. This the mortgage broker was so sick of me by the time we were done with this loan
Now I'm calling. Oh my god, bro. He did not know he got you. He did get you a deal though
I mean watch your episode. He's a huge fan of yours. Go figure
Man
Yeah mortgage brokers that guy is making a killing. I'm sure right now mortgages. He makes like he makes like
10 to 20 K a mortgage
That's crazy, and he's banging out a couple of them a month. Is it the pollock?
No, that guy's making way more than that that guy's making millions of dollars
That guy sells the most like top high-end houses in town. Yeah
I
Henry's like you could definitely sue
It's funny he says this because two or a week ago. He told me Henry yours at your agent. No, no, he's he's the guy Salton. No
No, he's the he's a director producer, and he's the one with the the Boziak. Yeah. Okay. Yeah
I'll show you that when we're done. You'll it's good. I should show it to everybody. No, what are you doing?
See Henry the fact that I'm mentioning this right now where the whole Hollywood thing is so like hush-hush
Right zipped up. It's top secret. What do you remember when I told you about that?
Remember the um the first 60 days or first 30 days that thing remember that
48 no, no, there's a there's a show called like a 90 days in 60 days in yeah
Yeah, or might be 90 right so, you know the the the main guy on there the black guy is
He's like the main the main guy on the whole show, right?
He's actually a plate used to be a police officer, and so he contacted me and said look there
That NBC or whoever it was is thinking about doing a show and I've everybody's telling me you should be my co-host
Are you interested? I mentioned in a podcast one time like three months six months ago, whatever
After I mentioned it somebody
Screenshotted the whole thing and sent it to him and he can't call or he's text me
He's like bro. Did you mention me on a podcast or the thing and I was like
Yeah, why you didn't tell me it was a secret. He's like yeah, well you shouldn't have done that, bro
It's like those people are so fucking weird man, but but he's not even like he's just a soul
I mean he's just like a guy on the show. What do you have to hide? What do you care?
He's like, yeah, that's not a for-sure thing. I said I didn't say it was a for-sure thing
Yeah, well, uh, you know they don't want this and I was like, okay. Well, then you should have said that
Well, you should know what do you mean? I should know that's the thing so so so like the establishment Hollywood type people
They don't they don't
Yeah, but I don't get it
Like what's if there's a deal happening and it falls through it falls through like what they don't want it to fall through
Well, I mean but it but me saying it doesn't mean it's gonna fall through if it was real
If it was for real it was gonna happen one way or the other that's the way I feel
You know, it's the same thing. I get this all the time where I get these guys are like you got to sign an exclusive agreement
With us today. Why? Well, we don't want you out there doing this. Okay. Well if it doesn't cover
What we're doing
Then why do you not want me talking about other things? Well, we only want you dealing with us. Well, wait a minute. I've written other stories
Well, yeah, but we only it's like stop stop, bro. Like any publicity I get for me is only going to spill over to you
So you're saying you want exclusivity?
Which limits your publicity?
Where I'm saying you're saying no, but it makes ours more valuable and I'm saying I make you more money by being out here
Giving you more exposure. You could make the same. There's two different argument. Well, some people will say
No, you're right. That is the better way. Like there's the argument. There's people on both sides of that same argument
It's just people get crazy
It's just greed, right? It's just all this is just greed. It's just like scared. We want to be the exclusive
We got some guy like Harvey Weinstein is like if anybody talks about your story, we don't want it
Yeah
Look how things ended up with him. He made some good decisions. Yeah
Um
Yeah, did you ever see that video of Kevin spacey? Did you ever see that video of him talking with that girl the girl?
No
He was there's a video of him talking where she actually came in and like videoed
Are she the she had a video or there was a video on and he's talking to her
So comes off so creepy. I mean, he's all like so
This is me a good deal for you. You know, right and she's like, yeah, no, I appreciate it. He's like, yeah
Really? Oh, it's it's it's it's horrible like look up your address on public records creepy
Not that creepy that's that's on that's that's this video. Where's this video on youtube over the line
That was super creepy by the way. It you don't do that. Stop with the creep. You don't do that
That is creepy. You don't you don't look up some girls address on fucking
Property appraiser website show up at her house. She could be dead. Yeah. I mean, I was gonna say the only out you got is
She could have some bad could happen to her. I knew she do. I knew nothing bad had a little idea
I didn't think it she was she was laying in a in a puddle of urine. It couldn't move or anything. Yeah, I talked to you
Yeah
I I you know find that video of harby winstein. I want to see that now
It was a part of a documentary, but it may just be on here
I might be just what would you search? What would you type in the search harby winstein interview girl?
Is it interviewing her no so she she came to she was trying to sell something to him
I don't know exactly what like pitch some kind of product or something to him
And he's in his office like or maybe they're like a conference table or something like
And and he's all leaning in and he's breathing hard and he's just I've been like harby winstein meeting with girl
security footage
Uh, it wasn't like I think one of the two of them was videoing it. I think she may have been videoing. Oh really? Yeah
It's listen creepy. Of course. You can see the guy. I know he's creepy, but but it was so over the top
It's like what like is this working for you harby? I mean why don't you just offer money?
That looks like your girl, bro. I was just gonna say that looks like her
Is this it no
Wait wait wait footage. Yeah, this may be it
She's here to pitch her tech startup companies new videos. Oh, yeah, it's gotta oh, yeah, she's pitching something
Oh, she so she does she puts a
Full screen this Austin
Locks the door
Damn, he did what raped her a few hours later
She's finer than frog hair right there
How are you?
look
Okay, what do you do? Oh boy
Fast
Say is it all right if I flirt with you? So what do you want anyways?
I
He's all coked up
Why is she leaning in so much right she's playing into that. Yeah, she is
Do
Well, I was rubbing his fly off I was rubbing his leg
You know
Yeah, I saw this was just the tape
And this isn't what I the one I saw
Dude, I mean, it's just human nature
Yeah, they're both trying to play each other they're both trying to play each other
She's trying to get money and he's fucking a horny old guy
With a lot of money
This is the part where he's
Up my dress
So
That's a little high
I mean
You see we're like rubbing her arms you see what I'm saying. He's yeah, he's creepiest fuck
In the trailer
You're in a business she's trying to she's trying to keep it. Uh, yeah, she don't want to lose him right
I mean, he's a he's a he's a cash cow, right?
Yeah, I mean she meant him for a drink afterwards
And now she says that
That she he raped her after they had drinks together. So they both got drunk and then he raped her
I don't know
I mean, I don't think I'm just wondering. I'm just wondering how like you're justified. I mean, I'm not I'm just saying I had two drinks
I mean
What do you mean he raped her like did she I mean she had sex with them and she regretted it really bad the next day
And she got the fucking bag and what
I didn't see I didn't see this what I saw was the whole video
But she's claiming that he raped her. This is a cut-up version where she's doing
They showed the last part where he's you know, and he he's hauling
This fucking thing, but the youtube comments are a fucking blast on this video
No, no, no, it's fine thing has four million plus views
Let's read the top youtube comment. Fuck it. Yeah
Oh, they're turned off. No
They were too good when they get too good
No, I want to see the comments god damn it
She walked herself right into that
I'm not saying she got herself. I don't know if she got raped or not, but take me off this podcast
I can't be associated with these comment danny's comment. What do you mean?
She walked herself right in she did that rape. She walked herself right into that right?
Yeah, she said she got raped, but who knows the truth, you know, I mean, I it's not I'm not saying it's good
I mean harvey's got rape is not let me get this straight rape's not good. Okay. I've said this before
But you don't know what sometimes you're asking for it is
But after you drink it's questionable. You had to drink you went back to it
There are cases where girls have claimed rape that they've been raped when they were black out drunk and they didn't they
They're both black out drunk. There's there's cases where the girl wasn't raped at all. She simply said it so that she could sue
Right. Did you ever see the one at the school?
Would you see the one at the school? No where the girl says that the guy raped her
On school premises and then her parents sued the school
And then the the guy like went he went to trial lost and he went to prison for like 10 years
Then he gets out after uses his loses his college scholarship everything gets out after like 10 years of going
To a prison to state prison as a rapist state prison gets out and the girl
Hits him up on facebook and starts talking to him and then admits on facebook
That she lied on messengers. She's she's like, well, I mean, yeah, I'm sorry about these. Hey, why did you say all that?
You know, that's not true and she says
I mean you have to understand we we sued the school
Like we got my parents who's got to school sue the school and we made like two million dollars or whatever it was
She's we're gonna break him off at all or no, no, then he then he realizes she's crazy that she even did
So he invites her to it like his house because she's trying to hook up with him. No
Oh, yeah, he videotapes the whole stomach control. This is the whole thing like this is really this was like a serial podcast
This was like on 2020 or 60 minutes or something like that and then he invites her he gets her on tape recording it
And then they eventually get his whole record expunged and then some some caught the college some college that
Some college gave him a tryout because he had lost his real college
Too late now 10 years later
And you know what happened to her? No, what happened there? That was my next one. Nothing. Come on. Wow
They didn't try to get the money back at least or something. No, I mean they didn't chart like to me
She needs to go do fucking 10 years. Oh, yeah, they pay this guy. How much did the the the the
Probably gave him nothing. Oh, I don't know. I mean he could pull it. How hard is it to find
This was on 16. This was on cnn too. I remember I was in prison and we saw it on cnn. That's how I know about it
The the government does pay people who are wrongly convicted. There's people that get off five or ten years
There's people who get off who who get who who basically
Get proven, you know, where it's like
That they were put in in jail
Falsely accused and they get out and then they get millions of dollars in the government
But they have to fight tooth and nail. Oh, yeah to get that money a lot of times you have to get proven
That he did his time and then exposed the situation right that's a difference
Right after he did his time
But then again you get let out because you also have to think how does he sue?
How does he sue the state when the state is going to say got fucked and we believed right?
We believed her like you can't really how do you sue us when this is what she said?
We simply presented what she said to the jury the jury the jury made that decision
But she shouldn't get some perjury or something, right? I don't know. Are you can austin find it?
I'm telling you it can find anything. Yeah, austin. It's it's he was uh, basically it's a you could put like a um
He's a uh
College athlete. Yeah college athlete falsely accused of rape falsely, right? That's it. That's ten years. Yeah
His record was expunged. Yeah, and I'll bet listen there were videos on it and everything it's on
20 on cnn
Don't do it bro. Don't do it. Why what is it?
What is it a saltine?
Oh, what are you doing?
Give it a big one. Don't oh my god. Are you insane?
One more. What is it called?
Let me see that can't be legal. Oh, yeah, it's legal the white weight lifters using shit athletes
Take talk people use it
Oh my god
Bro, we're from florida over here
No, it's bad man. It's bad my heart rate just increased fucking 120 fold
What is what is it smelling? It's just salt. It's just salt. Oh, okay
Crazy ass salt
Put this on some chicken
Defined it
You gotta close your eyes it burns your eyes
Oh
I want one more college athlete three times more like no, that's not uh legal crack
Woman who made false one year and she this chick didn't get anything. Um athlete
Um
Falsely accused
We're never gonna find it. How long it was a 10 years. There's probably 10 years ago. You know what you could put wait
Wait, what about this? Um put um
Oh god
You put college athletes. No just athlete get rid of loose scholarship. Put 10 years. Yeah false rate
10 years college athlete 10 years for false
I don't know that he got 10 years. You might have got 15 or 16. There we go. Football star exonerated
That's it after 10 years, huh?
We need to get this guy on here, bro. God. I was just kind of guessing at the 10 years
Who are you? That was a great. Yeah, it was a great fucking gas matcock
He went to state prison too, which is way worse than the fed course
Of course, is this him?
Wow
You
Turned up a little bit
Oh, you spent five years
Are we sure five years on probation
Huh in prison and five in probation it said 16
Oh, I play for long beach poly bro. I play for the same school juju did
No, this isn't the I don't think this is the same guy
But I mean too
Because the girl was she white. I don't know
Falsely accused of rape
California yeah, I've heard of that california innocence project. Yeah. No, this is not the right guy because this guy it had
It's the same exact story matt. No, but this I remember it happened this happened like on
School property because she talked about suing the school. Oh, yeah, so and she admitted to it on facebook
So like she contacted him on maybe we should put facebook in there in the search bro
I mean how often do you think this shit happens?
Probably a lot a lot probably a lot more they tried to do it to my man big ben
Big ben roffelsberger. Yeah, but I mean that's different when you got money too. Like people can you put facebook in the search?
Put uh put put the girl admits it
or something
Yeah, bro. I mean, that's the thing it happens a lot like it's it's gotta be you know
It's it's human fucking nature like girls like that girl like that just like the girl who was talking to harvey Weinstein
Who's looking to sell her business to him, you know, he's a powerful rich guy or whatever. She's he's a old pervert, right?
She's
Playing into it as far as she can without going too far
Like she doesn't want the guy to fucking finger banger right there
Well, look the guy was rubbing her shoulder and slipped his hand up her dress. She said that's a little high
And then she met him for drinks after right and then she didn't have to go there after she knew what the fuck he was doing
That's my point
And then I mean that's I it's not it's not it's not out of the realms of possibility
Yeah, it's not okay. It's not it's not she had some chances to get out of that
Yeah, yeah, no no she she she was definitely taking a risk
But the the rape like I'm wondering myself. She weighed the risk reward
And it didn't pay out. It's just like it's just like it's just like the maryland manson thing
It's just like the maryland manson thing maryland manson's ex-girlfriend came out saying that he did all this this weird sick and twisted demented
Shit sexually to her, but you're getting involved in a sexual relationship with this guy, right?
What the fuck do you think's gonna happen? Okay, I'm gonna come into a bed of roses
Right, I'll give you that like this. Look at this guy. This is and you know, yeah, come on
I mean and then it's you know, it's like a progressive thing suddenly it's
He's saying Lily. It's been a vibrator. Okay, next scene
You know, he's handcuffed. He's handcuffed you leaving you in a trunk for fucking two days. You know, yeah, I got a little weird
Yeah, you made some bad decisions and the next day you changed your mind that doesn't mean you can fucking put this guy in prison for 10 years
I
Not saying that's the case all the time, but I'm sure it's a lot of time anything nothing facebook nothing
It's okay
Yeah, we get it but he went to the same school juju did bro. That's crazy same high school and he was gonna go to the usc
That's nuts. What about this? Oh, what about this? Wait, wait, Austin? Um, exonerated
Um
exonerated rapist
gets
He gets a tryout. Well, he know he got a tryout. He got it from a foot a tryout to a university university or football tryout
Football, what do you call it when you get the a football? So he gets he gets a football tryout try that
He's he's exonerated rapist gets football tryout
Like that's got a narrow down pretty good
Where did you see this on tv and I saw it on tv, but even but even since then I'd seen it again somewhere
And it was definitely because I definitely remember because the girl they sued the school
Like it happened on school premises and the girl sued the school
That was the big thing was she wanted she set it up
She knew she knew if I'm raped on the school premises, we'll be able to sue on the suit. It has to be at the school
right
So true
You know and she knew that so she you know and the fact that this guy ended up going
He went ended up going to go into prison and she was like, well, I mean, yeah
But we got to see the schools like like she was he was even saying like she she had no idea what she'd done
Like she was acting like yeah, I know I'm sorry about that
Like do you want to hook up you want maybe maybe we could date maybe we could yeah
All the all the articles are that same exact guy. Is it because he got it
They said he got to try out with the seattle seahawks. Oh really so maybe
It's gotta be it's gotta be him. Okay. Okay. Well somehow the the girl sued I remember I remember that was a big part of it
Wow, wow somehow or other she's yeah, it's him because look the girl's name is winetta gibson
School district settled the lawsuit by paying winetta and won to 1.5 million 1.5 million. So I knew I knew I knew it had something to do with the school
I knew she sued the school one never refused to repeat her story in court that exonerated brian
Thankfully thankfully the video did that work for her
Oh, yeah, because he videoed her telling the video available
The video's gotta be out. It's gotta be like she because he does he sneaks he gets video of her saying and he says he didn't press charges on her
Oh, yeah, it's on your winetta gibson confession video type that in. Oh my god
He didn't press charges. It says why didn't brian banks press charges? Oh, no, no, she's got I'm sorry. She's got to go
Oh, she's got to go. No, she's got to go. Not only my person charges. Oh, no, I press charges
I'm going all the way. Yeah, and I'm typically the guy'd be like, hey, look, you know, I get it
What you know, they was a long time ago. Like I'll let things go. Yeah, you don't send me to prison for being a rapist
Make 1.5 million. It does. Oh, no. No, there's another video that says school district sues brian banks accuser
nice
Fast forward let's find the video just keep going just like like uh, just hover over it. There you go. There's the video
Yeah, right there
You know snoop dog, you know snoop dog coaches that football team
We got a million and a half dollar settlement from the school district and banks got five years in prison and five more in parole
Shackle with an ankle bar
He's got to charge up like a tesla
Then last year brian banks got a facebook friend request from warnetta gibson
Mr. Banks called my son and asked him what should I do. My son lastly said hey, you got to call my dad and I'm helping with this
Once I was just able to read the case
No
So let me ask you this
Is he a snitch now
That's his lawyer. It's his job. No, no the guy
The guy who got accused banks. Is he a snitch?
Big herk would say is
Oh, what'd she say
Uh
She said this shouldn't a lawyer's office this lady is yeah, but they're they're I say I for some reason I thought he videoed it
But I guess not
But they did hide the video
What is she doing he must have been fucking
He must have been ready to jump out the window and she said that
Oh, yeah, he's he's happy bro. Yeah, bro. He's been accused of being a fucking rapist
Five years in jail as a rapist and had to register as a sex offender. Oh, he was probably just so happy that it was all over
But this
Oh, yeah, let's see what happened
Has been spent on guji
No, shit. She's already broke by the time she gave the interview
She blew the 1.5 in five years and said fucking I lied
She took a bus she was already broke. I told you god, look at them
One step closer to making his dream a reality
Playing for the hawks the dirty birds
He actually played that's sick
That's sick
Oh my god, what an insane fucking story. Yeah, that is crazy. That's nuts
Oh
People are fucked up man, right like how that chick like she's like okay with it like she seems
I mean, it could have been way worse, bro. He could have gotten way worse than five years
Like it could have been so much worse. I wonder how many people have been like
Got life or got way longer. Imagine what if you how many people how many people that are in prison for like decades or life
Are innocent? I wonder
Oh tons. It's gotta be a huge percentage
What I doubt it's time. I mean, I doubt it's probably even 1 percent, but it's still a lot
1 percent is a lot. It doesn't matter. That's a lot like like if it's you if it's 1 percent, it's a lot
Yeah, let me ask you this. You're part of the 1 percent. How many people they get there's a lot of people in prison
How do you really get the death penalty that actually gets probably you imagine getting could you first of all?
A lot of people
Could you imagine being accused of rape and you didn't do anything like how do you bounce back?
What about the story of those four black kids in in new york from a long time ago got accused of raping and I think
Killing that girl and a couple of them ended up getting like executed in prison and shit and then like years and years later
They all got found innocent like the brooklyn five or the brooklyn four
They did a netflix documentary on it and everything really four black kids got accused of raping some girl
They all went to prison for like life. How do they find out that they were innocent? I don't remember
You have to look it up. It's it's like one of the biggest cases that they did a netflix movie and everything
That's the crazy thing this guy Bjorn that comes on the podcast
He's a lawyer and he deals with a lot of people who get the death penalty and he there's all not just one or one or two of them
There's a lot. There's there's a handful of people. I think every year that get exonerated that are on death row
But for all those people how many didn't get exonerated and got get electrocuted, right?
That's what I'm saying like that's the amount of people on death row that are innocent is crazy
Yeah, read this one. I think see if those guys
Uh got executed or died in prison or something
He had the jogger
And they just pinned like these four young black kids on it
Or five of them actually I think
Round up the usual suspects
Uh five latinos
Convicted five males keep going
Charges convictions
Hold on go back up a little bit. I like it down
The verdict on the side here and convictions
Serve it good click serving time over there on the left
Keep going. Well, we mean number nine number nine
If we lived in china matt cox would have been executed years ago
Probably true
It's true fraud is the death penalty they didn't get the death penalty
Maybe they got out and I don't care if they got six months. Yeah for rape for rape. You didn't commit
That is that is the most that is the
To me I think the most sound argument against the death penalty is how much they fuck up juveniles
It's how much they fuck it up like of course if you did that something if you fucking raped and killed somebody's kid
Or if anybody for that matter you the death penalty
It's you should definitely get the death penalty like kill that motherfucker, but the problem is they get it wrong so much
So often
That's crazy, man
There's a netflix movie on it or something
Bomber bomber bro
Bomber imagine you're just fucking walking down to the park, bro
And suddenly they grab you the cops like come on. You're we got you. Yeah, and tell me for what the lady says. Yeah, that's him
Oh, yeah, and you think you imagine you go to him right there
You go to trial and she's sitting there point. Nope that I'll never forget that man's face when he
How did I get here like what I was walking my dog. Yeah
Have a dog. Have you ever seen the caliph browser story? No
Who's that that young kid that uh, they said he stole something because he had a backpack on and he ended up
Going to rikers for a bunch of years and they they got security footage
Like just all the inmates jumping and beating him and he finally ended up getting proved innocent got out
And he was so fucked up that he ended up hanging himself in his house
People on the street were still fucking with him when he got out and but their security footage of him in in rikers
We're like and what was he convicted of
Like theft small arm theft or something somebody stole a backpack and he had a backpack on and they locked him up through a way to key
God there's a huge one like jay-z did his movie and shit and I always love it when they when the cops are like
Well, you know the tire prince, you know
Matt my tire they made 40,000 of these tires. He had the same boot on
He had the same Nike air forces on like i'm sorry. There's there's 100,000 of them. They sold a billion last year
Who's the guy that we talked about who's the prosecutor?
Who was in the case the california case?
Oh dershowitz. No, no
We did a we did an episode about uh, oh, um, robert moeller moller moller. That's the thing
There's guys like robert moller who they're their only motivation in life is just to put people in prison
Just to get ahead and they're good at it. Yeah, they're good. They're good at doing that
And they just they're want to climb the ladder
And then these people become the victims of it, bro
God, that's so fucked
Oh, this is thoroughly depressing. There really is. Yeah, we gotta we gotta
We gotta turn it around
At least we're not in china though
Why did you go back with the china? We had a whole china. We talked about china last time we did
We did and I read the comments on that. They were funny as fuck. Were they? Yeah, bro
It's the better people were like, oh my god. I didn't believe matt knew so much about china
What are you talking about? Other people were saying saying stuff like like this guy doesn't know enough to speak intelligently on the subject
Like they're probably talking about me. No me. The guy was talking about me
He's like, you know, honestly, I think he was saying both of us like these guys don't know enough to be talking about this
But there were other people who were saying absolutely china is taking over
They were going nuts. The comments were made. I love the fucking comments. Some people that come on here
They get like really really upset
And about the comments, you know, like they'll be like, I don't know. I don't know if I can do this emotionally
I read your comments. Do you know who uh, uh, do you know who west watson is?
Uh, I don't know. Yeah, it sounds very good. You have a measure. Huh? You've talked about him before. Yeah, so I did a I did a
I I did just um
It was a reactionary video to west watson and I did one to big herk too. This is funny
So remember I go to I go to um, so the big herk one
I went to california met big herk was interviewed on big herk's channel and on his channel
Um, you know, when we get to the point where I get arrested
I'm like, right. I got arrested and so, you know, my my lawyer comes to me and she's like, look
You're only choices to cooperate because otherwise you're getting like, you know, whatever it was 40 30 years or 40 years or something
I was like and he he's like
He's the look on his face like I can't believe he said that I said, right. So I looked at him and I went I said so he
I forget how it came out, but I I said so I I basically tried to tell on everybody I could think of
But it just didn't work and he went he started sweating. Oh, he got all he was like, what what what?
I said, yeah, bro. Like I told on everybody. It just didn't work. So I ended up pleading guilty. I got 26 years
you uh
You snitch on him? I'm like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Who who bro everybody I could think of man
I'm just didn't happen. I found people to snitch. I was like try it
I said I had to go to prison and find a guy, you know, you know, so I go through the whole thing. He's
I mean, listen his video
And what it after a year had gotten 38,000 views on that on that
I a year later guys are still fucking with me in the comments saying bro cox you have to do a reactionary video to that video
So I do a reactionary video
To the to his video my video got like
It's like 40. I think you got a I don't know where it is now, but it was at one like it was at 45,000
Like my reactionary video more than his video then his video shot from 38 started going up
I don't know where mine is. Did he call you back and thank you? No, I see no
We'll never talk again. The only reason I did it is really he took it that seriously. Oh, yeah
No, I listen
I only reason I even did it is because guys a bunch of got a bunch of comments because I was just gonna leave it alone
I got a bunch of comments that said hey, he just did another video where he talks about
Yeah, man, this uh, uh, this white collar dude came on here. He lied to get on the program
That's a fucking lie. Like I didn't lie to get on your program
I even addressed it to him saying hey, you know my story, right?
Like I'm not your normal guy that you have in your program. Have you he's no bro
He's I've seen your stuff on that concrete thing. I've seen it. I've researched your stuff
I know your story, bro
Like I haven't seen every story, but I've seen your interviews and I thought he said so no
I want you on the podcast. So I thought oh, I'm good. He didn't watch him. He didn't
He obviously didn't watch a couple clips. So you being a con man. Yes
Exactly. So all your episode had two million views. That's what he cured. Yeah
So then he then in the middle of it, he realizes it. Oh shit
And his big thing is I'll never have a sex offender or I'll never have it or a snitch and then he's got me
So now he is going around saying oh, he lied to get on the bro
No, no, no, don't don't do that. Like you don't like me. That's fine. Don't don't lie about what happened
So and because guys kept saying this like you gotta react. You gotta go fine. I'll do a video. I did a video
It would did great. So then I did one of west watson
Who's west watson is a guy who got out of prison. He actually had done big herks channel
And and he's a white guy. He was like a he's like a white supremacist that's changed his ways now
He's a motivational speaker. He's insane
If you watch these like if you watch like the best of west watson
It's you you should do it you to pull it up. You're gonna be like, oh my god
This guy's my worst nightmare
He's being in prison with this guy
He's the kind of guy that just just watching him gives me anxiety because these because these guys exist
Yeah, so I do a video I do a video kind of react kind of not kind of mocking him
But just mocking like how ridiculously over
Animated he is he's like a cartoon character. Yeah, he's like, you know, he's like when I hit the fucking yard
I fucking I hoop that shit and I go in and I go straight to the shot color. I say I'm a soldier, baby
I'm a soldier
And I put I fucking pull out my paperwork, you know, I'm you know hooping stick in your ass
So he pulls this he's like he carries his passport or his paperwork with him everywhere in his ass like to me
I'm sorry you can find it on the computer bud. You don't have to carry it
I find I have an issue with this
But and he talks about like he's proud of it like he's carrying around in his prison purse
It's insane and he starts talking like oh, it's so it's crazy. Oh, we got to get this fucking terrifying
This guy, this isn't my worst nightmare
Oh, this is like a montage of him. Yeah, this is good. You got it like full and then him in the corner
Okay, okay, I'm good
This guy's all natural now his eyes juice
He's on salt right before every video
Wait, you gotta turn it up
I would side with you. I would draw you in. Oh, it's cool dog. Like my bad. Hey my bad. And I wait for you to get lax and then
He has no chill in him
Take your own advice man. I'm perfectly fine
He's probably fucking sharpening his piece. How do you just talk to him?
He's probably in the room sharpening his piece. I just got to talk to him and say, mother fucker, you better be making a mother fucking machine gun
It's not funny. This goes for like an hour
Yeah, this is there's multiple parts. Have you met this guy? No, I can't be I can't be in the room with him
His veins are like garden hoses
He looks like the liver king
We never never shit on somebody's fucking dreams
So you met with this guy? No. Oh, okay. I just did a
A reaction video to this. Oh my god and guys are going nuts in the comment
I have 95 negative. No 98 negative comment. I've never had so many
Horrible comments about just like and I wasn't like saying he's a piece of shit. He's no, I'm just saying he's insane
Like this guy's my worst nightmare. He's crazy. Like he can't really you for talking about
They're mad at me for even saying like I make the comment like I'm like the guy's like a cartoon character
I mean, he can't really behave like this in real work. Like I'm just in general and I'm not saying
Fuck his message. He's a scope. I don't say anything like that. Mm-hmm guys are going nuts on me. Really?
He's just a soft ass piece of shit because they're guys just like him coming. Does he have a lot of followers? Yeah
Oh, he's probably got like 400. I think I want to say he's got like maybe 400,000. Oh fuck. He's he's
How could he not look at him? He's selling it. Yeah, he's oh, I'm sure he's making bank
He's he's been on youtube since 2000. I want to say 12 and see he got out and big herk
Interviewed him and then it was such a good interview that
Watson goes and starts his own channel when I was with big herk being interviewed. I said, yeah, you interviewed west watson
I said, man, that dude's my worst nightmare. He says the meet big hurt goes
Yeah, well, don't believe everything that all that hype that he's talked about because they know all that
I mean, you know what I'm saying. He's 39
390,000 subscribers. Right. So he gets you can tell there's a beef there
And he says and then big herk at one point tells me yeah a lot of a lot of these guys, you know
Like you like you give him a shot you put them on the on the you put them on the board
And then they take off and then like they won't even return your phone. So he's just mad and I was sitting there like he's petty
Like calm down, bro. He's mad. He blew up bigger than him from this interview, right?
And and he was yeah, all you know upset about it. So but yeah, he's listen if you read those comments
Really bad how's big herk doing?
Uh big herks video, you know, I don't we see big. Can you pull up the big herk mat cocks?
I want to see I'm trying to picture what this guy looks like. I got a I'm picturing him like the guy from the green mile
Like a big white fat white. Yes
No black guy. Oh, he's black. Yeah. Oh, I thought he was white
Oh, yeah
Yes
Doing whatever it takes to get time off my sentence. Oh god pull the comments up. Oh, bro. It's they're hilarious
played with
Lol herk better calm down before matt remortgages his house
Oh, listen on his guys are oh my god
Don't get heated when someone exposed that man. They don't like you guys. They do like me. That's kept it real
It is what it is. Yeah
54 his 54,000 on my on my channel that herk reaction has 54,000
In two months. Wow
Wow, he's going now. I wonder. Yeah, bro. They're hilarious. There's some. I mean most of them. I'm sure basically I'm just a piece of garbage, but
Matt never hit his true nature. Yeah
Um, I what is that something matt uh matt for staying cool calm and come in matt for staying cool common collective during the entire interview
Yeah, brother. Look, he's losing like he gets really upset at one point. I even turn to the
At one point. I even turned at the camera and I go, this is not a good interview for me
I go, this is a bad if you said that on the video gonna be good for me
He starts talking about ted he starts getting there's no honor amongst thieves. Let's not pretend like
There is I respect this dude for keeping it real. Oh, it's like you. They do
Listen, he you know, he didn't expect that. No. No, he's expected the opposite of that, right?
Right, he's definitely upset about that and these are weird people get upset about just like a conflicting ideas
Like they get so upset
Yeah, they really almost all these comments are sticking up for you. I haven't seen one bad one
I mean, they're every once in a while. There's this guy said fuck cox. He's a piece of shoo shoo shoo shoo
Like I could you imagine just like an idea rattling you that much
Look at this one. Herk would have never gotten aggressive if he known matt cox had a fine arts degree
Yes
He literally asked him can I trust you he literally said no I said no said told him anyway
Oh my god
That's that's ron wilson when when ron wilson says to me
He's like he looked at me and he goes just while I was walking around the guy that I fucking snitched on
Yeah, the whole guy right ponsy scheme. Yeah. Yeah, he literally looked at me. He goes
Can I trust you and I go probably not and he goes
Good answer. Well, here's here's what happened
No, did you get time off for that guy six years? Oh my god. Yeah. No, I'm sorry five years
I got that guy died in prison seven. No
No, I didn't kill the guy got he already had 19 and a half years and he got he got six more months
That's it. Yeah, and I got six years. No five years. Sorry. I said six
That's because I got seven and five okay
So for people that haven't heard that tell that part just tell that little story real quick
I mean that little story is you made him in prison
I met I met this guy in prison
I'm like I just got my sentence reduced for doing an ethics and fraud course right like I got seven years off
Like just it was a miracle I got there. That was only because of amadeo the the guy that the lawyer
So I just gotten seven years off. I got back and ron wilson is a guy who stole
57 million dollars in he ran a 57 million dollar Ponzi scheme
Like he stole 57 million dollars from pension funds
Churches, I mean this guy was vicious
vicious
And it's funny about him too because one minute he would be in tears about what he'd done and other times he'd brag about it
Like it was it was weird, but I liked him. It was a decent
I mean it was not a decent guy, but in prison. He was a funny guy was a cool guy to hang out with a very smart guy
We used to walk around
And you know, he's an old con man. I'm a con man and we're all walking around now
I'm an old con man, but we're walking around and and he kept saying
He was cooperating against other people that had helped him run the Ponzi scheme
So he's cooperating against them and he's saying to me
Um telling me little bits and pieces about how he's cooperating. He's like, yeah, but they're not going to cut my sentence for my cooperation
I know they won't they're gonna fuck me and I was like, why do you keep saying that and he's like well because they think I've hidden
Ponzi scheme money
Because he actually literally dug up like six or seven million dollars. He gave it to him
I go, well, you gave him all the Ponzi and he told me I said you gave him all the money
So don't worry about it. They'd have to to not to not give you something
They would have to prove that you've hidden something. They're not going to be able to do that
So and this went on for like months. He's always bitching about it
And so one day I said man, why he wanted to tell you he has yeah
And I genuinely thought he did give them all the money like I'm not working. I'm just like one day I go, bro
You keep mentioning that
And I said, you know, I said, I'm telling you if they don't give you something
We'll have Frank Amadeo file a a rule third file a uh a 20 to 55 and we'll get you the time off
He can do that. He just did it for me. Yeah, and he goes
Can I trust you?
I remember we were walking around the guy and I stopped and I went I go probably not and he goes
He was all right. He said well, I actually did hide some money
He said, uh, I I gave uh, I I've I've gave like, I don't know
He said 150 and you know, some some other some gold and some stuff and some other stuff to to my wife to hold
My fear is that now that she
Knows that I had a mistress and we're getting divorced just out of spite. She's going to tell the FBI
Or serics his secret service because that was secret service was in his case over his case
He is there. He's going to she's going to tell him and I went well. She's already told them
She didn't doesn't have any money, right? And he was right. I said right
So if she does that she opens herself up to to a another charge to a charge. Yeah, she didn't have any charge right now
You know, and he goes
Uh, she's pretty spiteful. She'll do she may do it. I said, well, she hadn't done it yet. You've been locked up over a year
I'll be right back. He's
This is what bothers me and this is what's of
You know what bothers me so he then look as we're walking. He then tells me he also gave his brother some money
Not much like 30 or 40,000 like just you know, that's a guy gave him some money to hold it
I was like, oh and I was out there and he we're talking and I'm thinking to myself
Is that enough?
Like did he just tell me enough to get my sentence reduced and I thought yeah, no
Bro, I've got I still I like seven eight years. I still had nine years to go. That's cooking in his eyes. Listen to the story
He's going okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's interesting. Yeah, he's got the math equation. Yeah in his head. He's like this is
But I would you know what keep going one more year keep
To me it just wasn't enough like it's not even worth making a call
And that's what really this is what bothers me. It actually bothered me because I'm like, you know
You consider yourself a pretty treacherous guy
And you didn't react fast at all. I actually
Layed in bed for like a month and didn't do anything
And I would lay there and go
Is that even worth calling like I mean
What is it? It's like a couple hundred thousand like they're not going to reduce your sentence for a couple hundred thousand
They didn't want to reduce your sentence when you had cooperated it fully. They're definitely not going to do it for this
They're already mad about the other thing. They're not that's just only a couple hundred thousand. Forget it. Forget it
Plus it's your word telling them once these people deny it
Come on. It's not going to happen. Forget it. So a month went by
And I was on the phone getting my ordering my transcripts because remember I just got my sentence reduced
So I wanted to get my transcripts to add my transcripts to my memoir that I'd written
I wanted to add that little piece
Shark in the housing pool available on amazon. Yep. Thank you. Nice. So I thought okay, cool
um, so I called my lawyer
And I said, hey, I need you said you were going to send me the transcripts. I've never got them
And she's like, oh my gosh, I will I'll get them. I get them. And then you know, she was like, okay
Okay, okay. I definitely got an order and I said, okay, cool. And she went so uh, what what's going on? I went, um
You know like lawyers don't want to chitchat. Yeah on a prison. We're on a prison and I went um
I mean, what do you mean? She goes anything else going on in there? You want to tell me about
Like this woman when we was she was actively working in my case
She didn't ever want to have a conversation. So now we're what you're asking me what's going on and the way she said it
I was like like it was weird
She didn't know it. I just it was I don't know what she knew
I just went and I went
And she had I sort of got had she not said that I still being prison right now
Really? Yes, because I literally think about it. It's been a month. I'd never called. I didn't do anything. So I went
You know, I I think you mentioned I said there is something
I said, so listen, there's a guy named Ron Wilson. She's what's his name? I go Ron Wilson. Yeah
And I said he's a Ponzi scheme guy. She was out of where I go South Carolina
And it was weird how she's on the spot and I went and he told me about hidden Ponzi scheme funds that the secret service thinks
He's hid I go, but it's not a lot of money. She goes, okay. Well, let me look into it
She's do you know the name of his agent? I go actually I do because he said his name all the time
I said, yeah, his name is um Griffin is like Tom Griffin. I think it was Tom
I go Tom Griffin and in South Carolina secret service and
And she goes, okay. Well that that can't be very many of those. She said, uh, let me look into it
I get back with you. I said, okay. Keep in mind. She had not really worked hard on my case
I don't want to say anything too bad about her because I did get so but
Hung up didn't think anything else about it anything else about it about a week later
a
A correctional officer comes up to me and says cox come here. I go. Yo, what's up? And he goes
During the move the moves when they open the door so you can go from building and building
He was during the move. I need you to go to sis and I went
Okay
And he just kind of like it was on the down low because if you go to sis you're probably cooperating with somebody
I used to have to go there because they would hold my mail because I was working on so many different people's stories
They would catch stuff coming in go. Why aren't you just order this guy's arrest report?
Like you shouldn't have you shouldn't have Danny's arrest report. I'm like, yeah, I'm working on a story and I they'd always give it to
But so and but they said for me to go there. I was like, okay, no big deal
So I go there. I walk in as soon as I walk in
there was this one
Lieutenant who ran the place he was a fucking asshole. He goes cox come here
Yeah, you sit down
That's how they talked to you like you're a dog sit down. I'm like, all right
And he goes, hold on
That was the phone he goes
Yeah, hey, uh, yeah, this is it. I got him. Hold on talk to him. I'm like, oh
Like now I'm like what the hell's going on like this isn't about the mail
And I'm like, yeah, what's up? And then the guy goes. Hey, this is agent. This is special agent
Um, this is special agent, you know Griffin with the uh secret service
Uh in South Carolina. I understand you know where Ron. Ron Wilson
hid Ponzi scheme money and I went
Nah, wait a minute, bro
I said I need something in writing because it's out that you know last time and he goes, well, wait a minute now
Let's talk about this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I
I'm not getting screwed again. I give you this. I want something in writing
You go to the u.s. Attorney you get me a letter in writing and I'll tell you who has the money
And I said the person that has the money and he goes he is okay. So it's a woman. I went what he is
It's a woman. You keep saying person. You're trying to make sure that it's not male or female
So it must be female
And I go, hey bro, don't ask me no more questions. Yeah, he is so who has it. I go, whoa, whoa, whoa. What are you doing?
Yeah, I need a letter and he goes take down my email address put me on your core links
Which is the way we communicate. Yeah, so I put it I put down and get it right it down
I go put them on there. We start corresponding
And he gets me the letter he actually sends me a copy of the letter from the u.s. Attorney saying if mr. Cox
Gives us information that recovers any money
a signal a say a
If it's where they the word they use it's not significant. Uh, anyway, it's um, you know, it's like let's say significant amount of money or
But what do they consider significant though? That's the problem
Exactly and I that but that was the best I was gonna if they if it's that or any of his information leads to the recovery of
Of money or basically an indictment then mr.
Then we'll consider we'll consider substantial assistance, which means we'll
Substantial assistance is what they give you a reduction for so we'll consider substantial assistance and reduce the sentence
But that's a lot of how much they reduce it. No, they keep on they said we'll consider it. That's how they fuck
Right, so it's like they're like, well, we did consider it and it's not enough still a fucking hail mary, right? So I was like
Fuck what am I gonna do? I might as well do you know, whatever
So I I cooperate. I I answer the questions that they're asking me and then they then they come to me and say
Can you go back and ask him this?
I'm like, I mean I can try. I mean, that's a little weird. I can't just walk into the room and say hey ron
Did so and so know this, you know, I'm like, I gotta fucking bring it up. It's gonna take a while
I gotta subtly they're like, well take your time. So this goes on you've got nine years. Don't worry. Yeah
This goes on for months
Ask him this and there's sometimes they'd ask me ask him questions and I go bro. What are you trying to do?
Okay, for the fuck am I gonna work that into a conversation? Like there was like questions is like, how do I work that?
How do I ask him that? Yeah, like what are you sure? What are you like? What are you fucking people idiots?
You know, I'm just like, what are you doing?
And I would I would call them sometimes
And um, because you know that it takes so long back and forth back and forth
Anyway, the point is I would ask about this ask and I'd come back and say no
This person had he said that person had nothing to do with anything that you guys are always asking about that and they
Nothing, but it take me three days to work it into a conversation
So point is I answer a bunch of questions and then at some point
He was on the pack out
And and he's like, oh, I don't know what's going on. I'm going back to
They're moving me. I'm like, where are they moving you? He's like, I have no idea
And then I go back and I'm like, hey man, Wilson's on the pack out, bro
Like he's leaving tomorrow and they're like, I know we just didn't really just indicted him
We indicted him. We indicted his wife. We indicted his brother
Yeah, I'm like, what the because what they did was after I'd answered enough questions
They actually had enough to go and go to this wife and say we need to come in and do be interviewed
She came in and they said do you have any money and she said absolutely not I have nothing
I've never gave me nothing. I don't have anything here. Okay. She leaves comes back the next day and walks in with like
$350,000 in cash and gold boom boom and gives them all this money. He told me only 150
Oh, and some gold. That's a significant. That's a huge difference, right?
So I because remember I was thinking even the combination wasn't 200,000 the 30,000 or 30 or 40 his brother had plus the 150
That's not even 200 grand. She comes in alone with like 350
Then the brother the next day is supposed to show up. He walks in and says before I say anything
I want to turn this over boom 150,000 in cash not 30 or 40 150
Here at a half a million, right? So when Wilson's leaving he had gotten a phone call from his lawyer
And I he he goes, hey, I didn't talk to you. I said, yeah, what's up? I said, yeah, what's going on?
And I'm still like my heart's kind of like
Oh, because you know they told you why he was on this day. Are you totally he knows right?
And I don't know that he doesn't know that I I might I was involved
Yeah, they're saying he doesn't there's no way he could know but I don't who knows and he's like can I talk to him?
Like, yeah, what's up? He was talked to my lawyer. I'm like, okay. He said
And then he told me my wife went in and turned in this much money and my brother turned this much
I go, are you serious? I said
I didn't think they'd had nearly that much yet
And I said you told me like your brother had like 20 grand. He said are 30 like I like low ball that like I thought and he goes
Well, he said I didn't you know, I don't really trust you
You know, so I didn't want to tell you the right amount and I'm thinking
If you didn't trust me, you should have told me nothing like you you what you said sparked the whole thing
Yeah, right like you should have just said nothing like anything is something to the fba. I don't care if they get five bucks
Right. So the point is is and he was like he's like, well, yeah, apparently I've been re-indicted
I'm like
No, do that. Do that. Look at the camera
I'm like, no
It can't be. I need a thumbnail. That's crazy
Fuck and he yeah, he's just he so he gets on the bus and you know, he leaves and um, you know, it's funny about that
Did they indict this the wife and brother? Yeah, but you know what they got one got
Six months probation. Yeah, not even a felony. Yeah
The other one got a hundred community service hours. Wow
Nothing
So he got indicted then when he got he got he went back. He got six. He got six more months, but when he got his discovery
Your name's all over it. Not just that. He sees all the all the fucking he sees all the emails
He's so he realized you've been you've been working on it all the time back in the same prison. No, no
You know what he did? He wrote a letter
to his old roommate
So his old roommate got it and it's a fucking letter that says
Cox this guy then he even said this he said cocks or I never really told him anything
But somehow or another he put it all together like it's like you did told me everything
Yeah, you told me bro
So what when I got that it was funny because when I get it, um, so I I what happens is I'm walking around
I don't know this letter's going around. Yeah, I have a buddy come up to me in one time and say, hey, bro
I meant what happened with wilson. I said, I don't know man. They shipped them
Now cocks I heard something else. I'm like, what'd you hear?
And he's like I I heard
I'm sitting there like like I'm just waiting for my reduction
Like I don't even need to there's no reason to even be friends. Talk to you guys anymore. I'm leaving here any day now. Yeah, so
Of course, I did nothing. We're gonna once again. They tried to fuck me over
So wait, wait, wait, wait. So before all this happened. Did you already get your your reduction? I got I know no no
He has to be sentenced then they have to request and keep remember they don't request it
They after he gets sentenced the u.s. Attorney doesn't doesn't try and give me anything. They say we don't know what cocks is talking about
I literally file another 2255 and then they lied to the judge. They told the judge your honor
We don't know what mr. Cox is talking about. We have no agreement with mr. Cox. I had to mail the letter to the judge
The judge gets the letter and he's like
We're gonna have an evidentiary hearing and they're like wait
Your honor
They gave him the same face
Your honor
Now I remember that was under I'm sorry. That was under it was under my paper weight. I forgot about that
Anyway, the point is is that so I hadn't gotten a reduction. I just know he's gone
So months go by he finds out about that I'm I had cooperated against him. He mails the letter back
Now the letter's going around. I have guys coming up the guy says yeah, I heard something else
I said would you hear he said I heard you're the reason he got indicted. I went what?
What had you hear that? He's like, yeah, I don't want to say and I'm like, what do you mean?
I want to say you fucking you come up to me and say that
You don't want to say
Yeah, and I went I walk off another guy two days later comes up and said something
Another guy comes up to me later and says at commissary says hey matt, what's up? And I said hey, what's going on? And he goes, um
I don't want to say anything bro. Like like I like you and I don't care what you did
He's like like I do anything to get out of here. I'm like, okay
And I'm like me too and he's like yeah, no, I know
Um, he said uh, you know wilson. I went ah fuck and he goes he looked at me and I said
What is it?
The way you reenact this is so good
Keep going keep going true though and I like uh-huh and he goes
Nobody's told me what's really happening. Like I don't know what's happening. I haven't seen the letter. Oh people are looking at me
People walking by I'm like, hey, what's up? They're like
There's a dead man walking. That's weird
And especially since I've already come back from getting a reduction like I'm not hiding it
But they're like this dude's a gun slinger. Yeah, I don't even fucking look at cox's direction. He'll get you indicted
Yeah
So I so the guy looks at me. He goes it was the guy's name was bradley, uh martin bradley bradley looks at me. He goes
so, um
I read this letter and I went letter what letter?
I mean, I'm doing everything to say letter what letter what letter what are you talking about? I go letter what letter and he goes so
wilson mailed a letter back to somebody and wilson had no friends
So I thought the only person he would have written would be his old roommate
And I went right right. I said uh, and they called him something. They called him like steve austin. I think they called him
um
Did he look like steve austin? Did he really be shorter though? He he was old. He was like fucking seven
It's like no, he's like 60 65 years old and but he had like the white hair
So I I um is that was steve austin? He was ball. That's rick flair rick flair. That must be rick flair
That's who they called they called them fler fler. All right rick flair
So I was like rick flair and and he looked at me. He went he just kind of looked at me
I went okay. Anyway, and he goes. Yeah, I saw the letter's gone around like a few people have read it
He was and I've I read it and uh, it's pretty bad. It says that you cooperated against him
And you were emailing the secret service and you've been working with the secret service for almost a year now
To get him re-indicted and I'm like, okay
and he goes
Is that true and I go does it matter?
And I and he goes
And it doesn't matter to me. I said, well, then what are we talking about and he goes
Okay, like I was like I think you know, he's
Okay, it's like I'm not gonna go. I'm not gonna brag. Like I'm Joe. I joke around a lot, but at this point
Here's my problem. It's not that I'm concerned about getting hurt. What my problem is
The lieutenants find out about it and I get shipped
Because they're like he's in danger and they ship me. Yeah
So I can't get shipped like my mom comes to see me every two weeks. I'm not getting shipped
I'm also working on a bunch of stories. Like I I have a life here. Not a great life
But at the time I got something going but at the time I like I was in you know, your expectations get lowered
I'm in a routine. Right. So
I go
um, so I go to uh, I go to rick flair
So I walk right up to right over flair's the roommate the roommate
I right walk right up to to him and I said, hey, bro. What's up? And he goes
Hey, man, how's it going? And I went pretty good pretty good. That's going all right. And he goes, all right
You can tell he's nervous. And I said so, uh, I wanted to mention to you
That um
Multiple people have told me that you've got this letter that you're
You're circulating
And he goes he's just now he's just looking at me. I said so I want to be perfectly clear
What's what the situation is?
Your wife comes to see you every two weeks. She lives around here
You don't want to get shipped and he looks at me and I go
Because I said I'm currently we both know I'm currently working with the fbi and the secret service
I can't be shipped from this location
But you can
And I said one more
Fucking person comes up to me and talks to me about this letter and I shit you not you will be transferred to
FCC Baghdad
Do you understand me? I said I'll walk right into the lieutenant's office. I'll explain the situation
They will come and raid your fucking shit find that letter
And ship you and even if they don't they'll ship you
I said because I can't be moved
Anyway, I said we understand each other right and he goes
Yeah, yeah, I said nobody sees the letter again. Do they no no they don't I said, okay
And I walked away. I have no control. There's no lock on me. Yeah, there's no fbi. But you sold it. I sold it
Yeah, so nobody ever mentioned. So here's the thing. So you have to think for him to mail that letter back. He was pretty pissed, right?
Wilson
Now here's the thing
About six months later. Maybe maybe a year later about a year. Let's say six months to a year later
By this point. I've gotten my I got my five years off
I just got my five years off. I think I want to say either before or near around that area that around that time
Period one day. I'm sitting there. We have to stand up for count, right?
So I'm standing waiting for the guards to come count us and we're standing at the top of our cells
And we're standing there and this you know, they bring new people in all the time
Well, this black guy had been placed right in front of my cell like he's in the cell right across the hallway from me
Not a ton of white guys
In in prison in general, but there's still a lot in the low, right?
more so like maybe 20 maybe maybe 40 or 50 percent
which is a lot so
I'm standing there and myself waiting for count. You know, I'm supposed to talk or anything
And this black guy had just gotten there. He's still in his r&d clothes
Like his he didn't even have his uniform and he's standing there and he goes, hey man. I said, yeah, what's up?
And he goes, um, you know a guy named matt cox
and I went
Yeah, why?
And he goes, you know, I went
Yeah
He said you can uh, you point him out to me. Is he in this unit and I went
No, bro. I said I'm I pull up my idea. I go. I'm matt cox and he goes. Oh shit
And I went why what's up?
And he goes, um, you know ron wilson and I immediately
Like I'm like and I and he said he goes. No, no, it ain't it's not like that, bro
So nobody can really hear us. We're pretty close
But his cell is eight feet back and he goes. No, no, he said, you know ron wilson. I said, yeah
Why he said he I was in the he said I was locked up with him in south carolina
And he was being shipped and he wanted me to give you a message
And I went, okay
He said he wanted me to let you know
That he told me to tell you two things one
He hopes you get as much time off as you can get
For for what happened. He goes and he told me everything. I go, okay
And he goes the second thing is he wanted you to
To let you know
He's at peace and he's found jesus
and
And he's he's good with it
No, and he said he he had no hard feelings towards you
I said, okay
And he said um, and I said uh
So I said, am I gonna have to worry about you?
Tell him people about this and he goes nah, bro. He said, let me put it this way. He goes
I ain't gonna be here very long
Like that. I went I understand you. He said, I know you do
I'm doing the same thing. He's just waiting on people. Well, he's waiting to leave. He's waiting for a reduction
Okay, like I'm here, but I'm leaving so nobody comes in quick
There's no there's no little little prison sentence in the feds
So if you come in and you're gone six months and this guy was gone like four or five months later
Really? Yeah, so he he did some damage. Um, so
But yeah, but you know, so yeah, he that was it and and that was the last I had heard and I'd actually thought about
Writing wilson. Yeah, you should I thought about fascinating to get him
I even thought about sending him my book like like because I have a book where I talk about him
Like should is he in shark in the housing pool? Nobody's in he's in the the book. I wrote. Um, uh, it's insanity
Yeah, frank amadeo is the one that fought those cases
I talked to get the reduction. Right. I talk about the wilson case wilson's also in one of my books. I called, um,
Uh, uh bail out
He's he's shrinker. Yeah, he he's he's only in a couple scenes
But he's it like he makes appearances because he was a part of my life for a period of time and he was an interesting character
But and keep in mind too wilson got six months
Like first of all you got 19 and a half years. You're dying in prison six months ain't gonna make a difference
But not that I give a fuck
I don't want to make it seem like oh, so matt thought about this. I thought they were I thought they were gonna give him five years
I I don't care. Yeah, I didn't care. I don't care if he got fucking 40 years and he had two right
We're serving two and got 40. I don't give a fuck. I went out of prison, right?
so
But yeah, that that's the whole that one little piece is like so like
He found jesus and I hope you get as much off as you can like I mean that was the weirdest thing
Can you imagine that is weird?
There's like 1800 to 2000 people at any given time at that the the guy literally is right across from me
We're just waiting for him to like to pull out a shank or something right when he said that
I mean it sounds like something from a movie right before you get killed. I have a message for you
No, because he's in he was in r&d clothes
So, I mean he's like he's got like a t-shirt and baggy pants and he's you know, he's and he's a soft black guy
This is not like this wasn't like a thug. This is like a guy that I was I could probably take in a fair fight
Like I don't think he's gonna
It's that and he was very like
Hey, you know matt goss. Yeah
Yeah
So but he was very like he didn't want anybody here. He wasn't trying to be like, yo, man
What's up with you know, he wasn't trying to get attention. No no, so I it was a vibe was good with him
Yeah, that was it. What is that?
No, so how long after that did it take for you to get your reduction?
I want to say it was I don't know if it was before or after that
You know, the problem was as soon as wilson got indicted and got actually got sentenced. I had to wait
Like I waited like six months before we filed the 2255 because they they basically your first
You kind of wait 90 days because typically around 90 days. They're closing the file
They're wrapping everything up and at that point they would have filed something saying hey your honor
We want to go ahead and reduce cox's sentence because he helped he substantially
Helped us in this case
Well after 90 days it was like
So I wrote a letter to the u.s. Attorney didn't hear anything
Then we waited so now it's six months after wilson's sentencing and then it was like, okay, so
Oh, okay, let's go ahead and follow 2255 because I already know they're gonna fuck me
So I we filed the 2255 saying look, I want to reduce
I want to rescind my plea agreement because you promise to reduce my sentence if I cooperated
in my plea agreement
And you're not doing that and they really don't even promise, you know, we always say you promise
They're like, yeah, but if you read the language it specifically says this is not a promise
So but you just say that anyway, so
You know, I I sent it to we sent I sent it in and and then they come back and they the first thing the government says is
Your honor, we don't know anything about mr. Cox cooperating in the wilson case
We haven't heard anything about this. So of course
Amadeo then comes back and files another motion with the letter
Which goes to the judge saying hey, what do you mean? You don't know anything. What about this letter?
What about all of these emails between cox and the secret service and they're talking about the u.s. Attorney
And their their agreement with the u.s. Attorney bop bop like, you know, you know
exhibit one exhibit two exhibit three exhibit and they're like, you know, we're taking excerpts
So the judge saw that and the judge went uh
I'm gonna I'm gonna order an evidentiary hearing and then immediately they came back and they said your honor
We'd like to reduce mr. Cox's uh mr. Cox's uh sentence by one level, which was like
Like
14 or 15 months or something. I know it was it was low. It was it was very low. Maybe it was 22
I think it was like 20 months
so we want to do it by
By 20 months or 18 months like a year 18 months or something and it was like and so it was lucky because when that came in
We I got it and we had just enough time. So the judge got something saying 18 months off
I don't know the exact number
The judge typically could have just gone
And said, yeah, okay 18 months. They Cox's bitching and moaning. They agreed to give him something here. Yeah, okay, cool
Done that's done and then it's over. I'm done
So immediately as soon as this thing came in
I get it at like five o'clock right after four o'clock count
So I get it at five o'clock at mail call and I'm like, holy shit. I immediately go to frank's
Uh meet with frank frank. Frank. Frank. This is what I got. But when frank goes
Okay, get me so and so you start doing orders, you know the little general get me johnson
Thomas through get a such and such, you know form and I'm like, uh, you know
I'm running around getting stuff and he writes up a little motion saying he wants to
Stop the process of the judge making it making a determination on whether or not to grant it or not
Because I have the right to present evidence
So stop it. We want to present evidence
And so they're like
So now the judge is because think about the hardest thing is this the hardest thing is getting them to ask for a reduction
Now you open up. You've already done. Yeah, you opened up the door, right?
And so sure enough we write it up type it up. It's in the mail
So within like they you know, they don't think you can react that quickly. So within two days the judge
Obviously got it and filed a hey, we're suspending this
We're we're we're stopping it and we're ordering an evidentiary hearing. No, we're stopping it. We're giving Cox a lawyer
Yeah
And we're gonna do an evidentiary hearing. So the lawyer takes they gave you a lawyer
They always give yeah, they give me a lawyer the first time too
Flu this lawyer flies in from
This lawyer actually went to harvard
She's uh, yeah, she was a cj a uh, like they they appoint them
So and because like if you file a 2255 you're basically one of the things you're saying is that your your lawyers in your
Public defenders ineffective. So they can't now give me a lawyer from the public defender's office. I just said a real lawyer
Now they they they hire someone right of real one. I got this chick from harvard. Wow
She flies in
She comes in she sits down
And she's like, hey, what's going on? I'm like, yeah, this is what happened boom boom boom and she's like, okay
Well, um, that's one of the things where when I tell her
She's like, well your motion, you know, he read your motion was well written and everything
But you don't really have much of a chance and I was like I was like, oh, I didn't write the motion
She's like, well, who wrote the motion. I'm like frank. I'm a day. I'm she's who's frank. I'm a day. I'm like
He's a mentally just he's a mentally incompetent
inmate who does legal work
and he has delusions of
He has his delusions that he's going to be emperor of the world. He's straight crazy and she's like
This is who's doing your legal work and I went, yeah, it doesn't affect his legal work
I mean, yeah, he thinks god's telling him he's gonna be he's gonna be
Uh emperor of the world, but he doesn't affect his legal work and she's like really
You've got you've got somebody who's mentally ill who's doing your yeah. Yeah. Yeah
She likes this story. Yeah, she's like that's crazy. So
She ends up saying look you ought to you ought to take if you know, she said she was you ought to take the deal
Like what deal the 18 month deal? I said, really?
Why would I do that? She's I might be able to get two months. I'm like, huh
Frank said four
Frank said to tell you four four more months. Yeah. No, no four levels. I'm sorry four levels. Okay, which was which was basically
five years off. Yeah
it's actually like
59 months off or something. I always say around up to 60 months, which is five years. So
Anyway, so I said, yeah, that's what that's that's it
So we went we go back and forth back what we argue for the next four months three or four months and eventually they come back
And they say
They say three levels off which that's 60 months. Sorry that that's 59 months. Yeah. The other one was like seven or eight years
Wow. So yeah, so that's so we she and I I get her to argue and really what's happening is she's not even writing the fucking things
Like my buddy Pete and Frank are writing them writing the motions and giving them and then she's getting them and rewriting them and sending them in
I mean, they're literally they're doing all the work. They're doing the work and she's just doing and she keeps every time I talk to her
She's like, I they offer this you should take it. I'm like, no
Well, I do you're not gonna get anymore. Yeah, I know but you keep saying that yeah, and it keeps getting more
Right and eventually I get yeah 59 59 and she actually was like, okay
Well, we're gonna have to go ahead and do the evidentiary hearing because 59 isn't what you want
You want four levels?
You only got three levels, which is 59 months four levels would have been whatever 70 72 whatever
I was like, no, no, I'll take 59. She's like, well, you said you wouldn't take less than
Then four levels and it's this is only three and I said no, I said Frank said to tell you
Four levels. We were always okay with three. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and we want you to fight for four
Right, but three is good. She's okay. Well, do you want to be moved back? I said, why would I want to be moved back?
I've won like at this point going in front of the judge. I can only lose
Like if they would get them to agree to three levels, we've agreed to three levels put an emotion
I don't need to go back. So sure enough. Oh, it was done. It was over
I got 59 and that's about this around
I don't know if it was before after when I actually got the thing when the guy said said to me are you mac?
You know, hey, you look you know got any mac cox at that point. How much time did you have left?
So at that point I had I was down to probably seven years and I got five years off
God damn and then I was as soon as that happened. So now I've got like less than two years
And they immediately were gonna ship me they were gonna ship me to another place
But my mom so I immediately entered the drug program to keep so that if you enter the drug program
They lock you to the combat. They put a management variable on you. So you can't be moved
So that's why I went to the drug program. So they wouldn't ship me. You've heard this. Yes, remember that? Yeah, yeah
Yeah, bro. It's nuts like I mean that the juggling the juggling act crazy
You fucking played every single element of the system horrible horrible
That's right. And in the meantime like I've all kinds of stuff's happening
I told you remember the guy jumped up and punched me in the in the fucking head
I don't want to say I say punch. I shouldn't say because he didn't punch me. He bitch slapped me
Who did this guy jump one day? We were watching tv. Oh, yeah
He wanted to watch a stone cold ranch. No, no, no, no ranch. No, no, this was just
This was just a crack. He was a he had a sex offender charge
Like he was actually there for like oxys and he was a big biker guy, but he had a sex offender charge in his past
And I used to fuck with him all the time. I don't know why he beat my ass
Like, you know, I'm saying I told you guys I think I told you this before like when I went into prison
I kind of realized like you can do one of two things you can just shut your fucking mouth for the next 20 something years
and just take and just just say nothing
And be miserable or you can run your mouth and expect that you're going to get the shit kicked out of you every once in a while
And I thought
That'd be more fun
Yeah, I just not going to be okay not saying anything some of these guys they they have they got a six out
so
um, so yeah, I'm sitting in this in the the like, you know sex offenders can't go
like they can't
They can't live certain places, you know that they can't live around a school or whatever. Yeah, we've talked about multiple business ideas
Yeah, yeah, yeah, so the guy this this guy his name is billy billy
Like billy would say people we'd be in the tv room people would say stupid shit
Like so or somebody would say hey, I just got my halfway house. By the way sex offenders in florida can't get halfway house
So some guy would come in and sit down and go
Um, hey, I just got my halfway house, man. I'm getting I'm getting eight months halfway house
I'm fucking leaving next month
And everybody oh cool bro cool cool and then billy would like like everybody knows you have a sex offender charge in your past
Like shut up. Yeah, don't don't bring attention. You instead he would say
Yeah, I don't think I'm gonna take halfway house. I'm um, um
And everybody's like what?
Full of shit. Yeah. What are you talking about? He's like, yeah, I don't know
I I'm I'm I'm just gonna I'm gonna go all the way the door. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not sure where I'm
I don't even know where I'm gonna go when I get out and I would go and I remember one time I said
Why no where you're not gonna go
Is where I go anywhere near a school a daycare or a park you fuck you cocks
So I was always saying shit
Oh my god, that's great man. One day we're watching tv right in the morning. He sits behind me
We're watching tv. We're sitting there and this chick comes on
She's like running down the beach right like Baywatch or something
And he goes you wouldn't know what to do with that would you cocks?
And I went pfft got a better chance of hitting that than you do
And he said he goes, huh?
He said uh, I want to fuck someone knock your ass out and fuck you and I said shit
I said I'm a little bit young for you. I said plus I have my high school diploma jumps off and bam
Just smashed me right in the bug in it
Fucking knocked me out of my fucking chair like I thought someone had walked in
You know you walk around with your chair and when you walked the door
I thought somebody had dropped their chair on me and that's how that's like I didn't expect it
So I jump I'm like what the fuck you piece of shit like we start screaming at each other
And then he storms off and I turn to one of the guys I sit down
And one of the guys in there looks at me and he goes cocks you okay?
And I went hmm. Yeah, I'm good
And he goes
Like if that's how quickly it goes back to normal by the way
Yeah that quick not walking around not pouting not fucking moving to another state
Not none of that shit. It's just like yeah, okay. Yeah, I'm good
Yeah, I like that subliminal shot. You know I'm saying like like you just deal with it. You move on. We're all buddies. We're good
So I'm watching yeah, I'm good and he goes no, bro. You're not good
What do you mean? He goes you need to go in the mirror go look in them go look in the fucking in the bathroom
I went
Fuck
Like I walk in the bathroom fucking half my eyes bloodshot red just completely really
Blew the capillary out like I had no idea. I was like, holy shit. Like how am I going to
Explain this just before mother's day and my mom was coming to see me like that monday
and I was thinking
Fuck like how am I going to not like if the guards see this I'm going to the shoe
They're gonna know there's a fight
And so I made it this is how many fucking this is how many snitches are in that fucking place
Can you believe someone snitched on you in there?
This is they had like five or six cop outs. There was only four guys in the room
It was like me billy like two other guys
And they were like five or six five or six cop outs to the fucking uh two s is saying
Hey, there was a cox and billy. We're in a fight
I you know, so at the end after four o'clock count they call both of us in the
Into the guard the
Into the uh the office. So we both go in the office and I'm like, I'm like, yeah, what's up, man
Like I'm trying to look sideways. No, no
No
All right cox. What happened?
Hey, we winter stand there was a there. There was a fight and I go no, no, no, no, no. There was don't say fight
It was an assault. I was assaulted fight makes it seem like I fought back. I was assaulted. I said this is an assault
Billy's right there. Billy's like mother fucker. I'm like, what like if you think I got you just hit me in the fucking head
You think I'm what I'm gonna not say something
No, anybody needs to go to the shoe. It's this motherfucker
But we both went to the shoe. Yeah. Yeah, I ended up having to go to
to the pin
Billy went to the medium shoe. I went to the pin shoe for some reason
Hmm, let me tell you something. It's not it's not good
Wow, like like I listen the whole way there as I'm coming into the place. They dress you out and everything
I'm telling like every guard along the way. I'm like, hey, hey, you can't put me in with one of these other guys
They're like, no, no cox. Don't worry. We're you're gonna be fine. We got your own cell
We got you some books. Wow. They took care of you at least. Oh, yeah
Like the guys like the the guards in the pin are super nice
Right
Like as you go down because they're dealing with fucking because they could the worst of the worst, right? They could get stabbed
You know, like if the camp they can air the load they can treat you like garbage
You're not gonna do anything. Yeah, but yeah, they're like cox. I got I got some got your books
If you need any more books, don't hit the button. Just knock wait will come will come
Um, don't here's your this here's your cleaning supplies. Don't drink this
I'm like, it's like it's like it was like um a jacks
A suicide thing for the Ajax and I looked at him. I go, is that a problem? He goes. Yeah, it's an issue
It's an issue. I go. Yeah, I'm not drinking that. He's a good move
I mean like the cop was totally cool. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I was there like a day and they let me out. Wow, man
That's fucking wild two days. It was listen. There were guys there whole faces eyes tattooed like walking around like
I mean, you know, like
Walking like this is how their their wreck time is is is handcuffed behind their back
Shackled their legs shackled and a chain between the two
Walking around like West Watson
worse like just
Like guys like that completely tattooed and I'm I mean these are guys like in the room
You could see the wreck the inside the shoe wreckyard
You could see it when you go through intake and I'm looking at these guys
That's what I'm like. You can't put me in with one of these guys. You cannot put me in the day. No, this is calm down
Cox with and you know, they almost laugh like they're they're when they're like
Relax, Cox. We would never you can't you can't survive with one
Right, we might as well just take you out back and execute. Yeah, right be faster. Oh my god
Terrifying, but yeah, so that was it
Oh, and then you're out. Wow, man, that's the way that you that you rehearse
Or re recount those stories and you're the way that you fucking
The way that you recount it and like how animated you are so fucking hilarious, man
You should get west Watson on the channel. Oh, yeah
You should have been only if you come on
I would but I need to have a bouncer like we have to have somebody
West look because I don't know a guy bigger than that guy. Yeah, we'll bring big Mike. Oh, yeah, we could bring big Mike
We could bring big Mike
Actually, you know, the thing is is like I've seen west Watson
I've seen we'll have big Mike pat him down before he comes and make sure he's not
You know, it's like an act that that was the big thing that bothers a lot of people's
I say it's an act. He can't act like this in normal
Like west Watson cannot behave like this in normal life. Nobody would be around him
He's probably like the most like calm reasonable person in real life. He's like probably
But I know super sweet guy. I had a guy contact me in the comment section who said he works out at the same gym
Like it's in like la or somewhere like in california. He works out at the same gym
Watson has like a group of people that he trains
And he said he goes. Oh, he yells at him all the time. Yeah calls him names calls him everything
He's like like a guy. I'll show up like five minutes late and he'll go
He said he'll he'll belittle him in front of everybody and I'm thinking really like
It's gotta be an act like you can't behave this way
In society, but maybe you know, one guy's telling me it's it's it's got you're right. It's gotta be an act
Other people some guys are saying yeah, it's Matt. Come on man. He's playing a character other guys
And then the other guy with the thing like but maybe he's playing the character for them. You can do it in that role
Right, maybe in this place where he could play that. Yes. So I I can't imagine
But I mean he's he's he's
Yeah, he's he's I mean he that that definitely could be his real life. It's just judging by how fucking
Juiced up he is and he's violent. I mean he his all and he didn't do fed time. He did stay in california state time
Oh, yeah, that's the worst. It's the worst. It's the worst. That's why he looks like he does. Yeah
Oh, you know, who you know, what would be who would be good? What about big herk? Oh, yeah
I'd love to oh, yeah, I want to get that football and ask him questions about you and then bring matt in halfway through
Hey, do you remember this guy?
Bubba just like an episode of jerry springer
Bro, you have is is that guy ron wilson still alive? Yeah, he's in prison. You have to fucking reach out. Yeah, you definitely have to
Write him. You have to just write him a letter get a letter from him and see what he says
Oh, man, you know what he looks like him a letter and you should you should show a picture of him
Can you google him pick him up? Oh, he's every he's all over it. They have videos of him
He was on american greed. Was he really? Yes
He did 50 some million right 57. Well, how do you spell his name ron wilson? Oh, yeah, and it is it's ronnie
I think with an r
Oh, what do you mean ron wilson fucking ron wilson? I honestly forgot the name. I was talking about danie
anyways, um
What's up with almeda? Have you talked to him at all? You know, we got arrested. You got arrested again
Said the last time you're here. Yeah, he's in jail. What did he go to jail for nobody knows
Nobody knows i'm thinking cia hold at this point. No, i'm saying at this point. Nobody can find out
Nobody can figure out what why he's locked up
He's that's usually public record when somebody gets locked up, right?
They have so long to either charge you or even if it was just a violation
Like that because at first I was told it was a violation but in violation
They have so many days to say it's a it's a violation
Yeah, wow
That's him right like that's after this is him after he got picked up and and left colman
Oh from you. So yeah, yeah from me. This is after can you play the video? Yeah. Yeah, this is
Did you ever talk about you?
No
That fucking mad cox
To imagine if he started with that that mother he told me I couldn't trust him
I asked him. Can I trust you? He said no
Do the widescreen speaking out from jail tonight the new details from our exclusive jail house interview
Matt Cox will
She said well, I'm just trying to get more information to be more effective with the clients
I said when you get to those questions bring me
And uh, because I used to tell him
Look at a client she brought in one day. She said how much he enjoys it. He said I want to know how do I know
The silver's there. I said you don't
And he said there and he says what I said you don't know it's not in your name
It's in ours. That's how I can treat
Let's see if you're uncomfortable get out
We'll sell it out
As far as the air comes in as far as stupidity right before his arrest
Wilson says he believes icin figured it out
But says he orchestrated the entire ponding scene on his own
Wow
Man you gotta write this guy
Wilson says it was sheer greed that led him to steal he says his business was legitimate until 2001
He noticed over that time that very few people ever took any money out of their account
I started
Issuing statements to add nothing behind it
I even redesigned the statement
That was very good. In fact, the secret service told me that it was genius
No way anybody would look at that statement and have a doubt those clients now victims are the ones who have
All old people
This million dollar then a second one is two million
But there was nothing to sell that's when he says it started to unravel
And then uh when I hung up that phone I thought this
This is the bullet with my name
Those victims and so many others never got their money
Wilson will be 82 years old when he gets out of prison. Oh, he might be alive
They die there. I'd like to think that uh, I'm not through some
You know God's promise that I might live to get out
I would like to spend some time with my daughter and my grandkids and my great-grandkids
But that's
Not likely to happen. And so I have to just come to grips with it
What I've done and what it's gonna cost me
It's gonna cost me a lot
I'm sorry
You gotta write him
I I should he uh
He's doing it the right way though. That's the only way to not suffer
You know, it's funny is uh that when he when I first met him
Super angry at everybody
Oh, really?
Do you hear what like how many times you've said that like I heard me like, oh, no, I'm the one that did this
I'm the one that put me here. His whole thing was
You know the secret service the this the that and I was like, bro, you keep blaming it
Like when was it when we first met do you think he's putting on a story for the cameras?
No, I I think he's that's true
I think as he and I became friends and we talked
Like he was always like you're like the only person here who like
Takes responsibility who like well, you're
You're like the only guilty man here. He's like I'm you're the only one saying like and you're not blaming anybody
You don't I don't hear you blaming it. No, I'm like you put you here
So nobody fucking made you do that nobody like literally I could hear me saying exactly what he's saying to him
And then as as times went on he was like
Yeah, I didn't I'm the one that did all this. I'm like, of course, of course
But you know, you you get first you get sentenced and you know
The first thing is to get angry and blame and this and that and it's hard to by the end of you know, if you're
If you're lucky you start to realize that you know that nobody puts you here
You put you you're the put yourself in this situation. You made all the bad choices
But I'm telling you right now 95 of the guys that go to prison. They get out thinking
Fucking snitches fucking dea fucking lion that what are you talking about? You were selling drugs. Yeah, you were robbing banks
Yeah, what did you what do you mean? You think you stole five million dollars. You have to go to prison
They could have given me probation. What?
You stole five million. Yeah, that kind of stuff. It's like people are delusional
You know, so anyway, but yeah, it's funny as we talked he started to have that kind of mindset and I was watching him right there
I'm thinking
Yeah, he was an interesting old guy, bro. Yeah, he had stories. He had great stories
He'll probably survive 82 is not that old. He wasn't good shape
I mean, he was like healthy. Yeah, he you know, his big problem was he would
fluctuate in his weight
Ridiculously, he would get down really thin and then he'd balloon back up
I mean, he'd he like buy a bunch of like nutty buddies and eat the whole box like
A box of nutty buddies he did the whole box
And then like the next day he did he'd do that like five five days in a row and he like one or two boxes a day
It's like, bro. What are you doing?
I mean, he's just ballooned back up and then he'd get to a certain weight and he'd start walking and walking and walking
Why the next thing you know, it's like, bro, that's not good. Like you can't you got a I'm depressed
No shit justified
Oh imagine how your victims feel. Yeah
Oh god, he had that he had
He had this one woman that came in one time. He told me about she had um, uh multiple sclerosis
Right, so she just started with the trembles, right? MS-13. She had
Yeah, so she just started and she had like
I don't know like a few hundred thousand dollars and she came to him and said her husband who she was
They were getting divorced
Her husband had been investing with him and her husband had said
Jesus, bro. Her husband said they were three hours in. Oh, shit. So let me finish this. Okay
So her husband had been investing with wilson. So she was they were getting divorced and she came to him. She said, look
I have
Several hundred thousand maybe a few let's say two hundred thousand and he goes right. She was if I gave you that money
How much would I have
And let's say 10 years
She said because the way I'm progressing I got 10 years before I just can't do anything
and he went
Do you have that in cash?
And she goes, yes, I do. Yeah, I do. He goes, you give me 200 thousand dollars in cash. She said in five years
He goes, you'll be a millionaire. He said in 10. You'll be worth three or four million dollars
And she goes, really? He goes, yeah
She said, I'll bring it tomorrow
And he goes, she did she brought me into a couple like two three hundred thousand in cash and I went really I went
I go, man, I just what'd you do with that money? And he goes, I bought an antique carriage
It was beautiful beautiful. It had gold trim
Wow, no remorse. None. What a psycho. I know I was like Jesus bro. She had fucking ms
And he was like, he's like, oh, she's fine. She'll be fine. She'll be all right
He's just taking these poor people's savings. You know, he had like he had he was 10 times worse than you
Oh, man, he he had a his he had a uh, it's called the it was the heritage museum
What in south carolina and he put he bought like antiques and filled it like this is what you do
Like you've got millions and millions and millions and you
He had a a museum. Oh, I
Oh, yeah, yeah, I had old cars. I had a confederate this. I had a you like what do you
It's just crazy. Wow. It's just stealing from people and buying crazy shit like I was fucked
You all right, man. Thanks for doing this, bro. Three we're over three hours in nice
That was a good piece of comment. That was a good one. This could be this could be
Yeah, three hours of of content. That's that could be three hours of matt cox people are gonna fucking love it. Yeah, they are
It's good
Well, thanks. All right
Uh, plug yourself give all the latest nobody's watching this
But they were watching if you're lucky if they watched if they watch the first 30 okay, well, don't plug yourself
No, I've been plugging they caught the ron wilson story. They're here. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Listen, uh, sure the ron wilson story had me by the throat right a lot
You got listen. I got a channel. It's called matt cox in and in matt cox inside true crime and
Uh, yeah, that's pretty much it like I got I got some instagram stuff. I wrote a book. I wrote a bunch of books
Yeah, I've been kind of plugging the whole way. I think I feel pretty good
So if you like the if you like the video
Do me a favor and subscribe
Hit the uh hit the bell so you're notified
Leave share the video leave a comment for the algorithm. You know, I can subscribe like and subscribe like it. Yeah, the whole thing do the whole thing
No, goodbye world
You
