We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world, our guest today is Rich Clark.
Rich is an expert in cryptocurrency and Austrian economic theory.
He's also an organizer of the Bitcoin Atlanta Meetup.
In 2012, Rich became one of the three insurgent delegates from Georgia for Ron Paul at the Republican National Convention.
This experience of seeing the sausage be made in politics made him lose faith in the idea that political action was a viable solution to advance human freedom.
It was at this point, Rich began to focus on Bitcoin as a possible tool for human liberation.
In the following seven years, Rich became an expert in economic philosophies and the landscape of the cryptocurrency world.
This podcast really opened my eyes to how money works in this country and where we're headed economically.
I hope you all enjoyed as much as I did. Without further ado, please welcome the wise and wonderful Rich Clark.
Thank you for coming on the show and talking to us about cryptocurrency and Bitcoin.
My extreme pleasure.
The internet of money, is that what it's called?
Something like that, yeah.
So how did you get into this whole realm, this whole world of Bitcoin and cryptocurrency and doing what you do?
You run an organization in Atlanta?
So yeah, I run the Bitcoin Atlanta beat-up. It's the oldest cryptocurrency meet-up in the metro area and probably in Georgia.
It was started by somebody else before me, but I've run it since about 2014, but it's been going since about 2013.
So the way I got into it is a little bit of a long story, but if you want it, I can give it.
I got time.
So I was just kind of a normal guy. I went to school. I got a degree in physics, actually.
Really?
But I didn't really do much with it. I was in a rock band in college, so I was doing that.
I was an audio engineer around the Southeast. I do festivals and lots of pickup gigs and sound for bands and stuff like that.
And some bigger shows, too, but all around the Southeast. That's what I was kind of doing after college.
And then one of the guys that ran Sam with, Michael Gasters, his name from Savannah, Georgia, he started talking about Ron Paul.
He was running for president in 2007 for the 2008 presidential race.
And so I started looking at Ron Paul. I watched a debate or something.
Before that, politically, I just waffled around. I didn't know anything about political philosophy or anything like that.
I didn't really teach that much in school.
And so I watched one of the debates and I was like, this guy is really interesting.
So he kind of took me down a long rabbit hole that led me to study what's called Austrian economic theory.
Austrian economic theory?
Austrian economic theory, yeah.
So it's basically as close to the economic theory that underpins Bitcoin, basically.
And so I got really into that. They talk a lot about sound money, like gold and silver being money, and the problems with our current monetary system,
which we can go into later if you want.
And so that's kind of how it started.
And then it was just down the rabbit hole for that.
And it leads you to all kinds of interesting places.
And then in 2012, Ron Paul ran for president again.
And so I volunteered for his campaign.
And I became one of the insurgent delegates, I guess, to the Republican National Convention here in Tampa in 2012.
I don't know if you remember that.
No, I don't. I wasn't paying any attention to politics in 2012.
You didn't miss him much.
So yeah, I came down here for that.
And it was an interesting experience, both leading up to doing that.
It took a lot of maneuvering to become a delegate at all, because they didn't want anybody who wasn't supporting the candidate at the time,
which was Romney, Mitt Romney, down there, voting for anybody other than Mitt Romney.
So three of us managed to get in.
Three Ron Paul supporters managed to get out of like 76 or something like that.
So we go down.
We voted for Ron Paul on the floor of the convention.
And it was a fun big deal, I guess.
But the whole thing, you kind of see how the sausage is made.
When you see the inner guts of politics, and even when you're working on the local level,
and then you work up to the state level, and then you go to the national convention,
I kind of got disillusioned with political action as a way to kind of advance human freedom,
which is what I was kind of all about.
And so I was looking for alternatives, things that made sense that I could act on.
And Bitcoin is the thing that I, very shortly thereafter, I knew I'd known about Bitcoin for a couple of years,
but I was like, ah, what is this?
I was a gold, I was a gold bug.
So I was like, what is this, you know, internet scam money?
I don't want anything to do with that.
And, but around 2012, yeah, so August 2012, I started really looking into it, digging into it,
and then I really hit the ground running early 2013.
And I started, you know, mining Bitcoin and doing all kinds of other things.
We can talk about that too later.
You were mining it.
So you had computers that were building blockchains and stuff?
Something like that.
Something like that.
Something along the line.
How loose understanding of it.
Right.
And really the rest is kind of history after that.
So that's sort of the path, the arc of me getting into it.
I really wanted to, I really wanted Bitcoin to change the world.
And it may still, I'm very hopeful that, you know, I think it's, the technology is out there.
And I think that it has a, it's definitely going to make an impact on the world in the future.
Right.
We were talking on the phone last and you were explaining to me sort of like the way
our current, like the current currency that we have now differs from Bitcoin.
When you're trying to explain to me the fundamentals of Bitcoin.
Right.
And you were trying to explain like the difference between how like inflation works
and how like the original banks, they would take, take money and they would,
they use that money to make money on loans, et cetera, et cetera.
Can you usually like, can we just start from like the, like the ground?
Right.
And sort of like build up this sort of idea that you were explaining to me.
Yeah, sure.
So if you want to look into, not many people know really how our monetary system works
today.
So it's all magic.
Yeah.
And we know Buzzwords like the prime rate of, you know, the Fed since the prime rate
and, and the Federal Reserve board chairmen as they go for Congress and talk every now
and then.
But nobody really knows how very few people know how, like how our monetary system came
to be and what it is today.
So basically, if you want to go way back, you know, if you want to talk about what is
money.
Let's get that mic a little bit closer to your mouth.
You're kind of a quiet talker.
So I want to make sure that we get that crispy audio, you know what I mean?
So, so you have to, the first question you ask is what is money, right?
Right.
It's, and the definition is it's a medium of exchange.
So it's, you know, in the early days of economic activity, you'd have barter, you know, so
you want to, you know, you want, you have eggs, but you want some shoes.
So you have, you got to find a shoe, Smith, a cobbler, whatever you call him to that wants
eggs.
And so he'll make you some shoes and you give some eggs and you're good to go.
You make eggs, he makes shoes.
But what if you can't find one that makes eggs, or that makes shoes, you know, that
wants eggs.
And so that's when this whole idea of like a common medium of exchange that people could
buy things with came forth and zillions of things have been used as money over the eons.
So cows, seashells, you know, you name it.
Right.
Of course, the most predominant one in sort of the modern era, well, the ancient world
and the modern era was gold, gold and silver.
And the reason is that, that gold became such good money weren't because somebody decreed,
hey, this is good money, let's use it.
It's because gold has some emergent qualities that the market discovered made it very good
medium of exchange.
And this sort of fundamental thing, there's emergent qualities that people talk about,
like monetary theorists talk about are things like portability, how portable is it.
So, you know, you can, you can use cows for trade, but if you want to trade your cows
for something, you have to get them, you know, from here to there, it's not easy to move
on.
So portability, durability.
So a cow also, you know, well, you know, they live for a while.
They won't live for hundreds of years or whatever.
And if they can get hurt and die and get sick, so they're not quite as durable, you know,
very good like grain and rice and have been used as currency to and in the ancient world.
Those also, you have a shelf life of a certain amount of time, so they're not as durable
as something like gold, which gold is, you know, you can just sit in a vault for a thousand
years and it'll still be there.
So portability, durability, there's this divisibility.
So another thing like a cow, like, you know, hey, I want to buy this thing from you.
How much is it?
You know, half a cow.
So it's like, well, you can't sell you half a cow, right?
So, but you can take a gold piece and you can cut it in half or give them, you know, and
so divisibility is a big thing that makes, you know, something good money.
There's something called fungibility, which we'll probably come back to later.
It's kind of a weird word, but what it basically means is one is like the other.
So if you take an ounce of gold, one ounce of gold, it's like any other ounce of gold,
you know, whereas, you know, different cows can be worth widely huge difference of money,
the amounts of money, because they can have different qualities that make them desirable.
Age of them or whatever.
Yeah, I mean, there's...
Size.
...readers that do all kinds of things, you know, different things and make different cows
worth all kinds of different amounts of money for different purposes.
So, but, you know, an ounce of gold, and it's another thing, uniformity of the money.
So uniformity, fungibility, it's kind of the same thing, but yeah, one is like the other.
So if you deposit an ounce of gold, you know, at a bank or something, then you're not going
to get that exact ounce of gold back.
You know, they're going to put it in the vault and then when you come say, hey, I want an ounce of gold,
you're going to get, you know, a different ounce of gold, but it's the same value, so
you don't care.
You're like, okay, yeah, this one's like the other.
So you have portability, fungibility, fungibility, let's see what was the other one.
Divisibility, was that one?
Divisibility, that's one.
Yeah.
So you can divide it up.
Right.
And then there's another one that they talk about which is kind of like intrinsic value.
That's an interesting one with Bitcoin, but basically that means that one of the, like
with the market money, like gold, it has some value.
Like people use it for something like jewelry or in our modern world, you can use it for
electronics.
It has some like intrinsic value to it.
And Bitcoin does have intrinsic value, but it's not in the sense that we traditionally
would talk about.
So going way back, that's why gold emerged as money.
Oh, scarcity is another one.
Scarcity, right?
Yeah.
And that's kind of like, it's kind of like you have to find a middle ground because some
things are too scarce, like platinum and stuff like that.
And so nobody can really get their hands on it, so it's not good money.
And then if things are too plentiful, it doesn't have enough value to make large purchases.
You have to get a wheelbarrow full of clam shells or corn or whatever.
So gold has historically kind of hit that medium place where it's scarce enough, but
it's not so scarce that people can't get it.
So those are the big ones that make for sound money.
So that's how gold kind of emerged as the standard money throughout the world, really.
Basically from the biblical times till pretty recently.
Now how is our money now, like currently, like how is the dollar bills that we buy
stuff with, how is that related or tied at all to gold?
Well, it's not.
So at all.
So the, and the path to that is pretty...
But wasn't it supposed to be originally?
It was originally.
So back in the, I guess to go back to what we were kind of talking about with like the
goldsmiths and whatnot, the origins of banking as we know it today started with, you know,
you'd have gold and you'd want to own gold to buy things, but you'd have to store it
and keep it safe.
And sometimes that was a problem.
And so what they would do is the goldsmiths who would make things out of gold, like jewelry
stuff.
They would have like 24 seven armed guards or something at their place and a vault or
something to keep them safe.
So people would say, okay, you know what?
This guy is really good at keeping gold safe.
So I'm going to see if he'll keep my gold safe for me and for a fee.
And the goldsmiths are like, yeah, this sounds like a great idea.
I already have the vault.
It's got plenty of room.
So I'll just add yours to it and yeah, you pay me a fee.
And what they would get in return would be like a receipt basically that says, hey, you
own this much gold at my vault and you can come in and claim it anytime like a monetary
note.
Yeah.
So over time, what ended up happening is those notes instead of somebody saying, oh, I really
want this.
Let me run down to the goldsmith, get my gold and I'll be back and I'll pay you.
Sort of ended up happening over a period of time as people would, they would allow you
to sign your rights to the gold away.
It's kind of like the precursor of what we'd know as like a checkbook today.
You could sign the note, endorse the note and say, okay, I'm endorsing this over to this
guy.
And so if he comes to you and wants gold, he can get it.
So then you pay him with the note instead of the gold.
You pay whoever you're buying, whatever you buy back then.
A horse.
Yeah, some armor, a sword, I don't know.
So you do that and then he could go reclaim it.
And then eventually what happened is they were just bearer notes, meaning whoever's
holding this, they don't need to sign anything.
They just show up and they present it and they can redeem it.
And so these started to circulate throughout the economy and there'd be different goldsmiths
who had to have different notes, but basically they started, they acted as money because
they were redeemable for gold, but they were more portable and easier to store because
they were just paper.
So the goldsmiths kind of figured out that only, you know, there's only, you know, once
this became like a big part of their business, only like 15% or 10% of their patrons would
come in on any given week or month to withdraw their gold.
So they had all this gold that just kind of sat there.
Why not make money with it?
Well, it's sitting there.
And so at first it started where they would have an agreement with the gold holder, like
if somebody had a lot of gold there, they'd say, hey, how about we loan this gold out
and we can earn interest?
And then we'll split the interest, you know, and the guy would say, yeah, that sounds great.
And so they'd do that.
And but then eventually the banksters, even, you know, especially for like small depositors,
they would cut out that portion of it.
They would just say, okay, you can leave it here and maybe they don't have a fee for
you leaving it there.
Maybe they'll do it for free, but they're going to be loaning it out and making interest
on it.
So that's how, so they started in addition to their storage fees that were maybe in
place of their storage fees, they'd start loaning the gold out.
Or loaning the notes out for the gold.
Or they weren't loaning the actual gold.
So no, they would loan notes for the gold, right?
So they'd leave the gold safe in the vault and they'd issue notes because the notes were
circulating like currency.
So that would allow them to make money on the reserves and their vaults.
What then came next was a pretty brilliant idea, which is, hey, you know, again, nobody
comes in for all of this at once.
And who's to really know if we put more notes out there than we actually have gold in their
vaults.
Let's say if they had 100 ounces of gold in their vaults, maybe they'd give a loan and
instead of, you know, so then they'd say they have 85% of their gold they're leaving.
So 85 ounces of gold, they're leaving for loans.
So say if they've already loaned out those 85 ounces of gold or the paper backing it,
but somebody comes to them and they still, they want to loan too.
And they say, well, you know what, nobody's going to notice if there's 10 more ounces
of gold paper, you know, receipts floating out there.
So I'm going to loan this guy these receipts and he'll pay me back interest.
And so that would be, that's called fractional reserve banking.
Fractional reserve banking.
Fractional reserve banking.
So basically the amount of notes you have out there, so liabilities, right, the amount
of notes you have to repay outweighs what you actually have in the bank.
As long as everybody doesn't show up at once, it's not a problem.
And you can make money on the notes that have nothing backing them.
And so this kind of became a pretty addictive sort of drug because you can literally just
make money out of nothing, you can make interest on holdings you don't even have.
So at first it started, you're using other people's money to make money, right, other
people's deposits to make money, which was great.
But then it just kind of went to this next level where you can, based on your reputation,
you can, and your notes circulating the economy, you can just push them out there and people
will still circulate them.
And so, you know, bankers couldn't, having the past inflated, you know, they're double
or triple the amount of notes they'd have on the bank.
Based on the gold they would have in the bank.
And what would happen is they, then you'd get what's called bank runs, which people
may have heard of.
Bank runs?
Bank runs.
So basically if the word gets out, that there's not, that they have, that they're a dishonest
banker or whatever, and they've put out way more notes, way more paper than they have
backing it, what are people going to do?
They're going to go and they're going to be like, well, I'm not going to be, I'm not
going to get left holding the bag if they don't have the gold, I'm going to go get mine
right now.
And they show up and they, they want the gold and then they, and then eventually they run
out and then you still have a line out the door of people with their receipts and they
collapse and fail, right?
And which is kind of a good thing because it was a sort of free market way to keep these
guys from going crazy with this whole scheme.
So there's always this threat of bank runs.
What we have now is like that system on crazy steroids, like, like, like bigger than Arnold
was at his peak, you know?
So the Federal Reserve, you know, during the history of the United States, like when the
United States was formed as the Articles of Confederation, so it was just like separate
states in like this loose confederation.
And it was like that for about 10 years after the Revolutionary War.
So each state kind of, you know, the history of how governments learned to, to issue paper
currency and stuff is a little convoluted too, but the sort of moral of the story is
that the states, there was hyperinflation in a lot of the states because when, and we
can talk about that a little bit later, inflation and how it affects us.
But what they kind of learned, the founders learned through experience was that really
this whole government printing money thing didn't really work that well.
So in the U.S. Constitution, it's actually in there that only gold and silver shall be
money in the United States of America.
And so that was, that was the case for, for a while.
We had two central banks, one was called, I think the Bank of the United States.
And it was founded in like 1800 or something like that.
And then it's charter ran out.
And then Andrew Jackson, there was a second bank in the United States that was chartered
as well.
And Andrew Jackson quashed that one.
It's something he's kind of famous for, it's kind of a crazy story.
And then we didn't really have a central bank until 1913, and actually I just went to a
conference on Jekyll Island last week, which is an island off the coast of Georgia, it's
a little barrier island, it's I think actually the smallest one.
It used to be a retreat that J.P. Morgan owned in the 1800s, it was the Jekyll Island Club.
And there's this book that everybody should read by a guy named G. A. Griffin called The
Creature from Jekyll Island.
And it's basically like the comprehensive history of the founding of our Federal Reserve.
And it was founded, the reason it's called The Creature from Jekyll Island is that they
got together, a cabal of guys, some senators and some big bankers got together on Jekyll
Island in 1910.
And they basically drafted what would become the Federal Reserve Act that created the Federal
Reserve Bank, which is the Fed, we know it is the Fed.
So that's why you guys did your conference there?
Yeah.
So there was a conference there, there was a conference there on the weekend, it's kind
of a fun thing to go and if you go to the Jekyll Island Club, there's a Federal Reserve
room and there's a plaque that says, in this room, the Federal Reserve was drafted, at
the time though, it was a big secret because they didn't want anybody to know who was getting
together and why and where because it would have gotten people suspicious.
Bottom line is, with the creation of the Federal Reserve, it allowed the, with any
central bank, England pretty much invented central banking, they had the Bank of England,
it was like the first central bank and the Federal Reserve is pretty much a copycat of
that and what it allows the government to do is this whole fractional reserve system
the government has a certain amount of money and that the Federal Reserve will hold that
money like the gold, literally gold.
There's literally gold in the Federal Reserve?
Well there's debate about that too, but there definitely has been in the past.
So Fort Knox is where the Treasury supposedly holds a lot of its gold and then also the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York I think has a big vault, there's supposed to be a lot
of gold in there too.
So you have this gold, before 1913 only gold and silver was money in the United States.
So we had silver coins, so the quarter, the nickel, the dime, well not the nickel, the
nickel is made of nickel, but the nickel, sorry the dime and the quarter, the half dollar,
the dollar were all silver coins, pure silver, well like 90% silver I believe.
And then we had what was called the Morgan Dollars which were these big gold pieces and
these actually circulated as money.
We also had bank notes that circulated and stuff like that too before the Federal Reserve
but when the Federal Reserve was founded what we had is this ability of the government
to, the way the government funds itself is with taxes up to that point and debt.
So the government issues bonds, I'm sorry I know this is like, I feel like I'm feeding
you with a water hose here, skipping over so much stuff, but the government makes money
and raises money with bonds which is basically debt.
People buy the bonds during the war, you've heard about World War II, buy your war bonds
to help pay for the war and stuff like that.
And so they'd sell them to private entities basically and so people would buy the bonds
and they would yield a return, that was the way the government could raise money for projects
like that.
Well what the Federal Reserve can do is they can buy bonds as well.
So they're like a bank but they're chartered by the Congress actually so they're like
a hybrid sort of organization.
So it's the private bank but it's chartered by Congress so they have special privileges
and they can buy the government's debt and this is kind of getting to how it works today.
But when they buy the government's debt, they issue the government dollars for that debt.
But they literally just print the money for that debt to the government.
So they say okay thank you government for, oh we'll buy a billion dollars in treasury
bonds from you, sure, and they'll send the US Treasury a billion US dollars, a billion
Federal Reserve notes, they're called Federal Reserve notes.
Those Federal Reserve notes are, they literally just print them, well these days they don't
even print them, it's just like a data entry.
So kind of the brass tax is that when the government needs money, so let's just use
like you want to know about today's money, when the government needs money for stimulus
checks for people, they don't say okay how much taxes did we raise this year, can we
afford this?
How much money did they spend on the stimulus checks this year?
Yeah, well it's like a trillion or two trillion dollars.
So when they do that, they don't sit there and say okay how many, let's take from, we
can't afford this, we're going to take from this entity, we're going to cut the FDA budget
here, we got to make this happen though they don't do that.
They don't look at the tax revenues, they don't care.
All they do is they go to the Federal Reserve and they say hey, we need two trillion dollars.
And the Federal Reserve says okay, well start printing your Treasury bills, your bonds,
that we're going to buy and print two trillion of them, we'll buy two trillion dollars with
the bonds and then we'll give you two trillion dollars and it literally just comes out of nowhere.
So now the government just owes them two trillion dollars?
Yes, in the future and they pay interest on that to the Federal Reserve.
So basically there really is, and ever since 1971, I can talk about that in a second,
there is no gold backing for the US dollar at all in the story, it's not backed by anything,
it's backed by the faith and the military, essentially the United States of America
is all that's back in the US dollar.
How does that make sense? Backed by the military?
Well, I mean, yeah, if you...
How? Explain that.
Well, all right, let me go back a little ways. So after World War II, there's a
state of affairs in the world where the United States actually held something like 60% of the
world's gold because we were this huge manufacturing powerhouse and we manufactured
so much of the war materials and so so many countries were sending us their gold for safe
keeping, one, but also mostly just for just commerce. And so the United States had this
huge stock of gold and the kind of, I guess, world elites, if you will, didn't like this sort of
imbalance. And so they all met at Bretton Woods, which is a place in New Jersey, I think,
and they came up with this thing called the Bretton Woods Agreement.
And what that said is that it made the US dollar, like essentially the world reserve currency,
and the reason it was the world reserve currency is because it was...
The US dollar would be redeemable for gold at $35 an ounce, it pegged gold at $35 an ounce
for foreign countries. So foreign countries could come, if they had dollars, they could
use their dollars and trade them from gold. So that caused a few things to happen.
Foreign governments would start hoarding dollars and getting dollars because it was the one currency
that was backed by gold still. And so this Bretton Woods kind of state of affairs, and by the way,
US citizens weren't allowed to own gold at this time, so it was illegal.
Weren't allowed to own gold. FDR in 1933 banned gold.
Nobody could hold gold. They said that... What was the slogan? It was something like...
They blamed people who hoarded gold for the economics, not the economy, not turning around.
They're like, because they were... They would hoard it. They were saying, oh, they're hoarding it,
so it's not getting out in the economy. Choking the economy, right? And so they said,
you better give it up. So there was... You could have some tiny amount, like two ounces,
or something like that, or something with gold, but the fines were crazy. It was like $10,000
fine. And in 1933, I think that's like a quarter of a million dollars now. And then people got put
in jail for it, too. Not very many, but some, if they were found to have been hoarding more gold.
So US citizens weren't allowed to own gold, but US dollars were redeemable for gold
for foreign countries. So these foreign countries, what they started doing is a lot of them started
redeeming their gold in the 60s. They redeemed their dollars for gold. And so sure enough,
the gold was flowing out of the US to these other countries at a rapid rate,
essentially, because the US had produced a lot more... The US government had produced a lot more
dollars than it had gold in the bank, just like the old bankers of old time, you know, the gold
smiths did. There's more dollars in circulation than there were gold in the Fort Knox.
So you're saying the US military is the only thing that's going to stop other countries
from coming and taking all of our gold? Well, let me get to that. I haven't forgotten that original
question. I'm just trying to get to where we're at. So in 1971, Richard Nixon, basically the outflow
of gold was happening so fast that we were going to run out, essentially, if we kept exchanging
the dollars for gold with the foreign countries. So Richard Nixon closed the gold window in 1971.
It was an executive order, and he basically said, Brentwood's agreement is done,
and the US dollar is no longer ready to move for gold. What they had done at that point,
as Henry Kissinger, who is his, I think, Secretary of State, had worked out a bunch of deals with
like the Saudi shakes and princes and whatever and kings, and in the Middle East,
that basically we would industrialize their economies, and we would come in and because we
figured out they had a ton of oil, and we'd go in and we'd build up their countries, build up
their oil industries, but OPEC would only accept dollars for oil. So at the same time we closed
the gold window. This deal, this deal was just happening and just happened where if you wanted
oil, you had to pay for it in dollars. So one would think that if we were saying, okay,
you can't get any more gold, people lose confidence in the dollar and like a dollar's value would
collapse, but because they had this other system in the works, they would, it basically became
like the petrodollar. So the countries could still hold dollars and be like, okay, but they
are still useful because I still need these to buy oil, still have to buy, and that's how it is to
this very day. So when I say it's backed by the US military, what I mean is there's,
there've been several countries, like Iran is the one that pops out most of my mind,
who have tried to set up, because Iran has a ton of oil, they've tried to set up like oil
exchanges where they would accept something other than dollars, US dollars. So they'd set
Euros or Chinese Yuan, something like that. And I think that has a lot to do with a lot of the
tensions that we have with Iran is that they, I mean, there's other things too. We've caused
a lot of problems over there in the past, but basically if anybody threatens this sort of
dollar hegemony on oil, they will get a military response most likely of some kind.
And so in that respect, the US military does sort of back the dollar, like the force of the US
military, because if anybody truly threatens the sort of global World Reserve status of US dollar,
like if any nation state does, they could receive retribution. But basically,
that's what government is. It's government in general is the ability to force somebody to do
something. In my opinion, it's the monopoly on the use of force basically is what a government is,
certain jurisdiction, legal, like the legal monopoly on it. Of course, people use force
all the time and commit crimes and stuff, but they can't legally do it. Okay, so how does Bitcoin
solve this problem? And actually, before you do that, how do you explain to people,
like dummies out there, like me, what Bitcoin is? Somebody has no clue. How do you explain it?
Right. So Bitcoin is a new sort of evolution in monetary technology. And I guess the sort of
like elevator pitch is it's an uncensurable, unconfiscatable, fixed supply monetary, easily
transferable or transmittable monetary unit. Okay, so there's a lot of, like if you exist in the
world we live in today, like there's capital controls that keep you from moving your capital from
place to place. There's tons of middlemen, tons of middlemen. Yes, it also cuts out the middlemen.
In the early days of Bitcoin, we had like an easy pitch and that was, hey, check it out, I can send
you money between our phones because Bitcoin kind of had, that was sort of revolutionary in like
2009. But now everybody does that with like Cash App and stuff. So that's not as cool. But
what makes Bitcoin different in Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies different is that
the, well, let me talk about what happens when the government or banks or whatever
in, you know, basically issue the, do the fraction reserve scheme issue the money.
What we see is, so like, I'm a realtor up in Atlanta is, you know, and I, so over the last six
months we've seen housing prices go up like quite a bit. Are they still going up? They're starting
to level off a little bit, but they're going up. And I think this is a phenomenon in a lot of places.
Some would say, I mean, part of that is because there's low supply, you know, supply and demand
is like kind of the whole market. A lot of people were kind of like not wanting to move because they
COVID and stuff like that. So like there were fewer houses on the market than historically
there would have been. And so that helps drive prices up. But also it is, it's, you know, the
government gave all these loans to people like the PPP loans. They did the stimulus packages.
There's people on unemployment making, you know, like reasonable amounts of money actually like
$1,200 a week sometimes when it was kind of at its height. And you know, when you,
this money is just injected into the economy, like it didn't come from tax revenues. It came from
that sort of mechanism I was telling you about where the Federal Reserve buys the debt
and just creates the money. But the economy is still the economy. It's still the same as it was
the day before they sent these checks out. There's still the same amount of stuff. Yeah,
still the same amount of houses. There's still the same amount of food. Still the same, you know,
the economy hasn't grown overnight to, you know, to match whatever percentage increase
there's the supply of money was. So what you end up having is you have these, you have more and
more dollars chasing after the same amount of goods and services. And so what you see happening,
like for instance real estate is you say, okay, my client really likes this house. Let's make an offer
and call the listing agent. Oh, well, sorry, we already have 10 offers on this house. So
if you want, if you want it, you know, you gotta pay more, you need to go over list price.
So, okay, well, go over list price and we'll go over it and then we'll, hey, we'll put an
escalation clause in, which basically says we'll go a thousand dollars more than the highest bidder,
you know, like that. Yeah, to try and get the house. And so what happens is the price gets bit
up, right? And part of that is because there's more of these dollars in the system and also,
you know, interest rates are low, which is another kind of aspect of inflation. So
all these dollars are chasing after the same amount assets we have is price inflation,
which means the prices of everything goes up. And so when you magnify this effect over, you know,
the Federal Reserve's been around for 107 years since 1913. When you magnify that out over 100
years of this sort of gradual debasement of the money, the dollar's worth a fraction of 1% of
what it was when the Federal Reserve was started. So you have to ask yourself, where did that money
go? Like, where did that purchasing power go? Like, who got it? And the answer is it goes to the
people who get the money first. So it's called the cantillion effect, if you want to Google it.
Somebody say cantillon? Cantillion effect. Basically, the first person that gets that new
money, they can go out and spend it in the world at the same prices as things were yesterday,
before the market has had a chance to realize that, hey, there's all this new money in the world.
So, you know, where are we going to? So they get to purchase it at sort of a lower price
than everybody else. So like say a month later, if the money supply is increased by 10%, what that
will mean is in a month or so, once the market's kind of worked this out, everything will cost 10%
more. So the guy that bought that item for 10% less, with that money when he first got it,
has essentially, you know, since the money was just made out of thin air for him,
he stole 10% of the purchasing power of everybody in the economy by injecting that new
currency into the economy. So with Bitcoin, one of the key
sort of founding principles of Bitcoin is it has a fixed supply. So it's it's it's
emitted gradually over time through a process called mining.
But at some point, it tapers off to zero that are emitted. And the total amount that will
ever exist is 21 million Bitcoins. But how? How is it possible? How can you cut it off?
So at one point, miners won't be able to make any money on it? Well, the miners also make money
on transaction fees. So when people want to make a transaction, they pay what's called a minor fee
in Bitcoin. And the fee, it's just like a market. So if the Bitcoin network's kind of busy, the fees
can go up. If it's not really that busy, it goes down. But the idea is that I think the last
Bitcoins will be emitted in like 2130. And so once that happens, the hope is that there'll be so
many people using Bitcoin, and there'll be so many transactions, and it will have scaled to meet
the demands of the economy that the miners can exist easily off of those transactions.
But the way that it's done is it's hard-coded into the Bitcoin code that the Bitcoin miners,
which basically they are people who own a computer. In the early days, it was any computer.
Now you get about these like $2,000 processors, right?
Yeah, or something like that. So just a brief thing about mining and what it is,
because it's a big part of how Bitcoin works.
It's super complicated to understand.
It's not super complicated, but it is somewhat technical. So the example I give is that
if you imagine these computers every 10 minutes, well, on average 10 minutes,
they're given a new cryptographic puzzle to solve. And I think of it like a needle in a haystack.
So they start, they have to find the needle in this cryptographic haystack.
It's basically like if you have an email password and somebody wants to figure it out,
if they don't know you well enough to like social engineer you or something,
they can try what's called brute forcing it, which is basically like, well,
I'll try this word. That didn't work. Okay, I'll try that word.
Okay, maybe if I tweak it a little bit here. And people can code computers to do this and
brute force your passwords. And so it just takes a certain amount of time to do that.
And then eventually they'll guess right. If you don't have any protections in case in place,
you'll have access to your stuff. And so basically these computers are trying to brute force this
puzzle. And it's like looking for a needle in a haystack. And so the first computer that finds
the needle broadcasts, hey, I found it to the network. And then the rest of the network looks
at the needle. And based on the last needle that was found, they can they can prove that
that this needle is is the legitimate needle. It's the next it's the next block in the blockchain.
They found they've solved the puzzle. And and then that minor gets a reward for finding that needle.
And he also gets he gets a monetary reward. And he also gets the ability to write all the
transactions that have happened in that last 10 minutes. So if people like, hey, I want to send
you some Bitcoin and other guys says I want to send you some Bitcoin. Those transactions are all
put out there. And and they and then the minor will who finds the needle will sweep up those
transactions and then earn the fees off those transactions and then earn the fees off those
transactions as well. And then he'll encode them into that that needle allows it's more like a
key. It allows him to write to the Bitcoin blockchain. And that that that and then once he
does that he gets a block reward, which is the the that's how Bitcoin is created. So it started
off Bitcoin for that Bitcoin for that. It's to incentivize people to to participate in the
network and validate the transactions. It started off at 50 Bitcoin. And then every four years,
it's hard coded that it cuts in half. Who created the first 50 bitcoins?
That was be the anonymous founder Nakamoto. Yes, a group of founders Satoshi.
Satoshi Nakamoto, right? Nobody to this day really knows who he was. If it was a
lone person acting or a group of individuals, where they come from, who, you know, there's
people who have speculated certain things, people who have found
like evidence to try and figure out where he may have lived or whatever, like,
based on when he did his posts, people think that he probably lived in the east coast of the
United States, stuff like that. But but or he could have just been clever. And every time he
posted posted at a certain time, it would make him look like somewhere else, or it could have been
multiple people. But yeah, what do you know? Where did he post stuff? It started off
in a mailing list called the cypher, the cypher punks. Okay, right. Which was formed in like,
I think the mid 90s. A bunch of nerds in California, San Francisco, started doing a little meetup
at one of the guys headquarters. What was his name? Eric Hughes, I think. And Eric Hughes wrote
the cypher punk manifesto, which you can look up. It's just like a paragraph. And then they had a
mailing list. And these guys had been trying for, they were basically a bunch of guys that really
can serve with privacy. And the cypher punk manifesto basically says that privacy is is key to
free society in this modern era, like cryptographic privacy. And along with those kind of ideas also
come a lot of guys who are interested in sound money. And they know about how the Federal Reserve
works and how it basically robs savers of their money, you know, over the course of generations.
And so they worked on this whole idea of cryptocurrency. And the nearest thing to it was
hash cash, which I think was Nick Szabo's project. Hash cash was a way to protect you from email spam
by basically make you do a little computational work. He invented proof of work, basically,
which is what the mining algorithm sort of is for Bitcoin. Basically, he said you have to do a
little computer computational work to send an email. That way, if somebody couldn't just send out
a zillion emails as spam to somebody. Yeah, I think that was like 90, it was like 2000,
something 2003 or four, he came out with that. And then Satoshi Makamoto just basically came
out of the blue, like, I just started posting in this thing and and the dropped the white paper
for Bitcoin. And this thing and everybody was kind of like, Well, this is really interesting.
And what Nakamoto had done is he just basically he'd taken a lot of the stuff that the cypher
punks had learned and figured out, and just kind of put them together nicely into this
nice package and and coded it up and and launched it. And so he was the one that to answer your
question, he or she, whatever, was the one that mined the first blocks of Bitcoin. And the first
transaction mined the first blocks of is called the Genesis block. It's the birth of Genesis block
of information. It was empty because there were no transactions, right? It didn't even exist,
right? Nothing was there. Nothing was there. But it did remort him with 50 Bitcoins to his
to his Bitcoin wallet that he could create it. So and he actually,
I think he ran it as kind of a test net for a while. He did send some Bitcoin to Hal Finney,
who's now dead. He was another cypher punk contributor. That was I think the first Bitcoin
transaction where he sent, you know, he's like, Okay, download the software, the software creates
what's known as a wallet file, and I'll send you some and it worked. But it's another kind of
bread crumb is they think that Nakamoto may have worked in some kind of lab, where he had access
to a bunch of computers, because he actually had a, you could actually had a whole bunch of computers
that were mining in the beginning that he was testing with, like, it was something like 30 or
40 computers. And they were all kind of the same. They all kind of did blocks at about the same time.
So they took them about the same time to find the needle. So they figured they're probably
about the same type of computer. But that's kind of a rabbit hole. Yeah, but that's that's who
mined the first Bitcoins. Okay, I feel like I'm jumping around a lot. Yeah, no, no. It's super,
it's super interesting. Now, there's also multiple different types of bit like there's Bitcoin,
then there's things like Ethereum, right? How are these things different? Are these just people
like, like finding opportunities and this whole Bitcoin craze to Bitcoin's an open source project.
So that means that anybody can go read the code. It's not like some secret, you know, right? So
like one of the first altcoins that I knew about was one called litecoin altcoin. That's the term.
Okay, they're alternate versions of Bitcoin. Okay. And it literally was just an alternate
version of Bitcoin. It was a word for word, basically copy paste of Bitcoin. The only thing
that he changed in the code, a guy named Charlie Lee, the only thing that he changed was
he changed the block time. And that so Bitcoin, the way that it works, that's so interesting,
it took, have you ever heard of BitTorrent? Yeah. Yeah. So it's basically like a decentralized
file sharing, right? Like you want to download a movie or something, right? So, so, so basically
hundreds of people will have this movie on their computers, right? And,
and, and then you say, Hey, I want to download that too. And so you get a little file and it,
and then that it goes out and looks says, Okay, who has this? Okay, this guy has it, that guy has
that guy has that guy has it. I'm going to download from him, him, him, you download a little bit
from each peer, right? But there's no like the reason it works is because there's no
and the reason it hasn't been taken down by the authorities is there's no central
like BitTorrent company that you can sue, raid, fine, take down otherwise. Nobody owns BitTorrent?
No, no, no, nobody owns Bitcoin. Okay. It's just a program that exists. It's just a decentralized
protocol. Okay. And, and people can now there's, and there's, and it's open source. So a lot of
people have developed different apps and stuff that work with BitTorrent and they talk to the
network. But, but yeah, that's how what about websites like Pirate Bay or the websites thing is
those are just repositories for the, for the, the key files that let you know that, that
that they're like little tags that basically say, Okay, this movie, this is like say this,
or let's say something legal, like a, like a, like a, like open, like a public domain book or
something, you want to download it, it's in the public domain, there's, because there's plenty
of legal content available, of course on BitTorrent as well. You'll download this, you'll say, Okay,
I'm going to search something like the Pirate Bay and find a Moby Dick. Okay. I want to read it.
I want to read it, get the eReader version of Moby Dick. And it'll come up and it'll show
several files and it'll say, Okay, this, this file has 15 people that also have it. And this,
or this file has one, this one's kind of dead. There's nobody that, like we know about it,
but nobody out there is hosting it. And so you click on that file and all that file is, is just
like meta, basically metadata about, about that file. And then you load that into your, your BitTorrent
software. And then it goes out and looks for what else has it. But priority, Pirate Bay doesn't
host anything, aside from just those, basically the metadata for those Torrent files. So the only
thing you download from the Pirate Bay is like a tiny, like three kilobyte file.
So it's like a portal to these other files that you can download.
Right. It's basically like a, it's basically like you have your library cards and you're not
anymore. When I was growing up, we had library, you know, you had the, the Dewey Decimal System,
you know, you'd have your card catalogs. And then you'd say, Okay, I need to, the author's name
starts with, you know, an L. So you open up the L drawer and you look, Oh, here it is. And then
you go to the stacks and you find it. So all that Pirate Bay is, is just the card catalog.
Okay, that makes sense. You're not actually downloading. So unlike Napster, so Napster
actually hosted the stuff that Napster started, you know, Napster was like 1990, whatever, eight,
nine. And they got, they were a company though, and they, they ran this file sharing thing and they
got sued out of existence by the record companies and everybody. So, so Bitcoin, right, took this
idea of a decentralized platform, like BitTorrent, where it's just one node connecting to another
in like a spider web, but there's no central point of failure. Like all you have to do to
run a Bitcoin node is just open up the software and bam, you're part of the network. So even if
somebody wanted to take down the Bitcoin network, right, they would have to, they'd have to find
every computer that's running it in the world and like smash that computer, they'd have to go into
space, I think at this point, because I think there's Bitcoin nodes running in orbit and, and kill
those. When you say node, do you mean those computers that are mining? It's just a computer,
it doesn't even necessarily have to be mining anymore. In the beginning, all nodes were pretty
much miners, but we'll get to the sort of, we can get to the, let's shelve that for a second,
the arms race, the arms race and mining. That's kind of a fun thing to talk about. But
anyhow, it's, it's an, it's a very durable network because it's, it has no central point
of failure as a protocol. So it took that, so Satoshi Nakamoto took that idea, sort of bit
torrent and decentralized networks. And then he also took this proof of work idea
and then combined them with, in my opinion, what were some pretty sound economic principles
and created what we know as, as, as Bitcoin. The proof of work algorithm, which is what
does the mining that the needle in the haystack search is what, you know, it gets people to
contribute something of value. And so, because the power in the computing, the computer you use
is they cost money. And so a lot of people will say that, unlike gold, Bitcoin doesn't have any
intrinsic value. It's not backed by anything. Technically, it's true that there's no ounce
of gold or anything else in a vault for every Bitcoin in the world. But Bitcoin is backed by
the hardware and the power like physically backed by the hardware and the expenditure of energy
that it takes to run the network. And it's very high at this point.
I was watching something with this guy who had this massive, massive warehouse or like a bunch
of warehouses in Iceland that were just storing these computers, like racks and racks and racks
of these computers. It must have been like tens of thousands of computers that were all
mining the Bitcoin. So it's people like that who keep Bitcoin alive, right?
Right. Yeah. Basically, well, they secure the network. And so most people don't know this,
but Bitcoin is- And what kind of money does that guy make?
It's the largest basically cryptographic network in the world. So it's the Bitcoin network is
actually the biggest supercomputer in the world. That's pretty scary.
Together. It's not scary because it only is good at doing one thing.
Right. Right now. Yeah. It's only good at finding, you know, for the most part, the
the way the hardware is built these days. It's really only good at one particular
hashing algorithm, which is good for finding Bitcoin.
So why isn't Bitcoin good for investing or like long term investing?
It's only good because- Who said that?
I was watching something earlier. I think it was, what's his name?
Andreas Antonopoulos. He was saying that Bitcoin is not good for investing your money into.
It's good for transact, like making transactions, but it's not good. It's not a good way to
invest money and earn a return, something because it's so volatile.
Maybe I didn't listen. Maybe I didn't hear that right.
Okay. If you're getting in the world of like investing, you know, it's like not investment
advice. Am I better to invest in the S&P 500 or invest all my money in Bitcoin?
Well, the S&P 500 has been pretty volatile as well lately, but-
Over the past 100 years, it's gone up.
Right. That's a personal preference thing. So Andreas, kind of famously,
a few years ago, he's always spent, he's received payment in Bitcoin for his speaking fees,
and he spends it for everything. And so, I think he had some like family emergencies and stuff
where he cashed in a lot of his Bitcoin earlier on before it like went parabolic the last time.
And so he really didn't have a lot of Bitcoin that he held.
And so that's his personal investment philosophy. He uses it as a medium of exchange and he kind of,
I think, hedges against the volatility by going ahead and spending it more closely immediately.
A guy named Roger Ver, who's a big name kind of in the Bitcoin world. He used to be called Bitcoin
Jesus. Right. Yeah. He's a kind of a wacky guy. He owns Bitcoin.com. Right.
He said he tweeted out something like to Andreas. This is like two or three years ago now. He tweeted
out that if only Andreas had kept a few hundred dollars worth of Bitcoin and hold on to it,
he would be a millionaire by now. And Andreas had responded somehow, but what ended up happening?
Andreas has like a donation address, like a Bitcoin address that he just has posted on his Twitter.
Somebody donated a million dollars to Andreas. Like he's like, no, now you're a millionaire.
Holy shit. When was this 2017 or 16, 17, 18, something like that?
What's the most Bitcoin has ever been worth?
It was actually, I think the highest value was $19,666 is what I saw. Wow.
So almost $20,000 and that was in December of 2017. December. What is it at right now?
It is at $11,300. $11,300. Yeah. So it's about half. About half. That's not good.
But well, it was even worse than that. I think it hit $3,000 something in 2018.
Actually, no. In March, when the big crash happened, in the market, everything crashed.
Yeah. Bitcoin went down to I think 4,000 something again. It was, it had been back
up at like 10 or whatever, but it just, or eight or nine, but it came back just like the market
then it came back and rebounded and it's back to where it was before the March crash. But yeah.
That being said, when I started with Bitcoin, Bitcoin was $100 almost exactly.
2012? 2013. I was going to start mining in 2012, fall 2012, but
here I'll talk about the arms race a little with mining. It was a little rabbit hole.
When Bitcoin, I told you earlier that Litecoin was, it was just a tweak of the Bitcoin network.
It changed the block time. What that means is that the network targets
for a new block to be found about every 10 minutes for Bitcoin. But it's not like a hard,
it's not like a hard, it's not like, this happens every 10 minutes. It's a target.
It's how fast the computers can do it, right? Exactly. So a lot of times what happens is a
computer will get lucky and it'll find it in two minutes or something.
And so over the course of two weeks, it checks to see if the average is 10 minutes.
And if it's not, what it'll do is it'll either make the puzzle harder or easier,
depending to make it 10 minutes. And pretty much all the time it's always been getting harder
because computers are getting faster and faster and able to find it faster and faster.
So the faster the computers are, the more complex they're encrypted?
If you want to think about it this way, the bigger the haystack gets,
right, for finding the needle in the haystack. So if you get a machine, if you imagine this
machine that gets, it's kind of good at finding needles in the haystack. You can have a little
small haystack. It'll take it 10 minutes and it'll find it. But if you have this industrial hay sorter
machine that can just gobble that through that in two seconds and find the needle, then
it just needs to make a bigger stack. So it started off, you could just mine Bitcoin on your
laptop, like anybody could mine it. But then people figured out that if you used GPUs,
graphic processing units and video cards, you could get pretty efficient performance.
And it was like an order of magnitude better at solving the puzzle. And so then people who had
CPU, you know, just doing it with their laptops, weren't really able to do it anymore because
the GPUs were so good at it that the algorithm had to make it harder. So like if you had your
little CPU, you know, it'd be like one guy looking at this giant haystack, you know,
to go through and you wouldn't be able to. But if you had the GPU, it could power through it and
do it in 10 minutes. And then what came out next was FPGAs, field programmable gate arrays,
field programmable gate arrays. And those lasted a little while. They're basically just
like highly adaptable programmable circuits, you can sort of specialize things for. So they're
very good, like specialist chips, you can program the dual, they're used in all kinds of industries
for all kinds of things. But then shortly after those came out, the ASICs came out,
Application Specific Integrated Circuits. Basically, these are CPUs that are designed to do
just one thing, and they're designed to do them really well, special built, custom built.
And these are supposed to come out in like the fall of 2012. And there's this one company that
was developing them or putting them out called Butterfly Labs. I almost hate to give them a
plug because they ended up being huge scammers, but they're not around anymore. So it's not a big
deal. But so in fall of 2012, when I was looking to get into mining, I was going to get some GPUs
and build some computers and whatever. But these Butterfly Labs guys have built all these,
or put out all these Google ads, like I don't know how much they paid on Google ads, but
literally anytime I searched for anything, Bitcoin mining related, their ads were everywhere.
And these ASICs were like an order of magnitude more efficient than the GPUs. So I'm like looking
at all these profitability calculators, okay, if I buy this GPU, it'll pay for itself in like a year
or something like that. And then you're looking, then this ad pops up and you're like, oh my god,
if this thing comes out, it would pay for itself in like three days, you know, you pay $1,000 for
it or $500 for it. And then it's so fast that in three days of mining Bitcoin, you would get
$500 with the Bitcoin. But then they just, so I was like, well, I'm just, I'll just wait until
they come out. And there's no point in getting my GPU gear ready. And so, but then they didn't come
out, they didn't come out, they didn't come out. And then it was like 2013. They still hadn't come out.
Or they, well, they still hadn't been delivered. They were out there. It turned out that what
Butterfly Labs was doing is, yeah, of course, like if they have the heart, it's like the cantillion
effect I was talking about with the person that has the money first. So they had these miners that
could mine like ridiculously fast. First, like they were the first guys who were like, well, you
know, they need to have a burning period, right? Where they're tested or something. So they would
run them. They would, they would, they were running them at their facilities. And then
that would cause the network hash rate to go up a lot. Like the, you know, because they were really
powerful. So that meant that the haystack was getting bigger. And then once the haystack had
gotten big enough, then they would send them to the customers that paid for them. So they would
make a ton of money. Oh my God, what a scam. And ASIC companies still do. It's still that way that
you need to be whatever the next generation ASIC is, the closer you are to the, like the hardware
manufacturer, like, because literally if you order one, making a profit, it could like getting it next
week versus the week after next could be the difference between you breaking even and making
money or you never really recouping because of how fast they're advancing. Well, because of how
it's not just the advancement. There's also, you know, if you manufacture a bunch of these,
like, yeah, it says, you know, there's strength of numbers too. So the more you have looking,
right? The more odds there are that somebody's going to get lucky and find it faster, you know,
so, so they're mass producing these things too. But that's, that's why instead of getting in,
in 2012, when Bitcoin was like $20 or $12 or something like that, I ended up getting in.
Finally, I just, it was March, I think, or no, January, February, 2013, the price started going
up. And I was like, man, I missed the boat. I should have started, I should have started
mining. I should have just said, forget it and bought the computers and mine and,
and I remember like a year later, after I'd been mining for a while, I remember I was looking at
I was trying to like troubleshoot something. And I looked through this, I was looking through
this forum and it was a post from like, yeah, mid-late 2012. And this guy was like, oh,
guys, I'm only made, I've got this, this GPU, which is the exact GPU I had, because I was
trying to troubleshoot that one GPU. He's like, oh, there's one, I'm only getting one Bitcoin
a day. What am I doing wrong? One Bitcoin a day. Yeah. And, and, and at that time, that would have
been a fantastic return because Bitcoin was a, when I was reading it, Bitcoin was like $200.
And so that would have been like $200 a day off that one little GPU, if you, if you'd held
any help. So Bitcoin right now is, you said at about $11,000. Yeah. That's right. How much,
how could I mine enough to make one Bitcoin in a day? Well, the way I told you the block,
there's the block reward. Yeah. Right. It rewards out now. For completing a block.
So, so we've had every four years, it cuts in half. So it started at 50. Then four years after
it started, it went to 12 and a half. And then just recently, it went to, sorry, say 25, I went
to 25. And then it went, the third happening, it went to 12 and a half. And just recently,
it went to 6.25. And this is how the 6.25, what? Bitcoins per block. Okay. Rewarded. It cuts
itself in half every four years. And that's how it's going to go to zero in the future.
Okay. I get it now. That's all right. This is the largest audience I've ever
confused. Hopefully. Yeah. So what was the question? Oh, you earned my Bitcoin. Yeah.
So now it's down to six and a half Bitcoin per block. But what people realized, and this happened
really early in Bitcoin, like back even when the CPUs and GPUs were used to mine it.
So if you were going to buy some hardware to mine Bitcoin, you could set it to mine Bitcoin
called solo mining, where you're just playing with everybody else trying to find on the chain.
And maybe you'd get lucky and you get 50 Bitcoin. But it would take, it's all about
statistics and averages, not statistics, but how plausible it is you'll find.
It's like playing blackjack or something. Well, yeah. So you could run your machine,
you could get the 50 Bitcoins or the 25 Bitcoins or now the 6.25 Bitcoins,
but it could take you like three years or something of mining. Or what people have done is
they joined pools. So they pool their power, their mining power into this pool. And then the pool is
much more because it has a huge amount of mining power. If you just have like one miner or something,
you can hook up to this, you can link up with a pool and the pool has a huge amount of mining
power. So they find a couple blocks a day. Oh, wow. Right. And then what they do is they divvy it up
to all the, you know, depending on how much you contributed to the miners. I did in the past.
Yeah. I always did pool mining. Why'd you stop? Because, well, I stopped mining seriously in 2000
or 15 or 14. The prices of everything, you know, Bitcoin went up to $1,300 in 2013.
And then it crashed back down to like 600 by the, by January 2014 or February or something like that.
And then it actually eventually made its way back down to I think almost 200 or 250, something like
that. And during that time, it was just not profitable to mine. Like he spent more in power and
being a pain. Also, I had it at a friend's warehouse and he ended up,
I ended up not being able to do it there anymore. So.
Yeah. Isn't it scary? Like have to have, especially pooling, like if you're talking about pooling
and joining other people's power grid and having to watch people with their processors that are
mining Bitcoin, I mean, you got to be pretty scared. You know, that place has to be pretty secure.
Well, no, no, the thing is you don't need to pool with people in a physical location. You pool
with them wherever they are. So you can be alone in your dorm room and you can join a pool. And so
they're all just basically what it'll do is it'll, so when you're, when you're searching for the
needle in a haystack, you know, what they'll do is they'll say, okay, I've got this giant stack.
All right. Here, you take this clump of hay, you take this clump of hay, you look through
that clump of hay, you look at this clump of hay, you look through this clump of hay,
and they can divvy that out over the internet. Right. So, but there are huge facilities that,
like you talked about the one on Iceland, where, and there's a ton of them in China, where they,
they just go through the, you know, they have these giant facilities. And so, yeah,
security is probably, although really, if you break in there, all you're going to really be
able to get is you're not going to be able to get at the Bitcoin, you know, like, it's just a bunch
of hardware. But if someone wants to, they could just go fucking take a baseball bat and break
all your computers and. Yeah, they could do that. So, yeah, pooling, so pooling allows small operators
to get like a regular return, you know, instead of, you know, like if you, if you buy a piece of
hardware to buy Bitcoin, and you hook it up as a solo miner, you'd be like, well, maybe I'll get
6.25 Bitcoins, but it might take two years for me to find that, or you could say, I'm going to hook
up to a pool where they're regularly finding blocks, and then they're going to divvy up,
you know, depending on how many stacks of hay you looked at, they'll give you your proportionate
share of that block plus a fee, you know, for them running the pool. So then you get, maybe you'll
get the same amount, maybe you get 6.25 Bitcoin in two years over the, you know, over the course of
you running it, but you're getting it in like a steady stream instead of just, oh, wow, I found a
block all at once, you know. So when is this, when did you say it stops again? I think it's 2130.
2130. But so today is, it's 2020 today, and we're already at 18 million, I think, of the 21.
18 million Bitcoins of the 21. Yeah, so it's, it's, it's going to get a less and less amount,
you know, as like, it's a really like winnowing down. It's probably going to be way earlier.
Well, no, it'll be that, it'll be 2130. But by then, you know, what's funny is it's actually worked
that the, the value is kept up with the havenings, you know. So like,
at every havening, it's kind of like, basically the miner's profitability is cut in half overnight.
But on the long run, the price has managed to keep up pretty well as far as, you know, so
even in, you know, 2130 or whatever, when people are mining some fraction of, you know,
like one Bitcoin every block, you know, it's like 0.05 Bitcoin per block or whatever it is,
you know, that 0.05 Bitcoin maybe worth, how do they come with that number?
Why that number though? I don't get it. 21.
21 million? Yeah. You know, I think Stochi talked about it somewhere. There's a really cool book
called The Book of Stochi. That's all of his writings. Everybody's been able to really find
like so online and whatever, and they compiled them into a book called The Book of Stochi.
And I think he may have talked about why he picked 21 million. I think it was just like
an equation he did that basically, you know, because people think, you know, hey, what if the
global economy is running on Bitcoin? Remember we talked about divisibility,
being a fundamental thing of money? You know, there's more than 21 people in the world. So,
you know, does that mean it's going to be too scarce? Like are people going to be...
21 million people. Yeah, there's, you know, seven, eight billion. So that's not enough
for everybody to have one Bitcoin. So, but Bitcoins are divisible by eight decimal points.
So it's, so of the 21 million, it's that many times, you know, so the amount of units
are going to be chopped up into is eight billions. Oh, oh, yeah, I want you, okay. Yeah, it may even
be trillions. One Bitcoin you can divide eight times? No, you can divide it to the eighth decimal
place. Eighth decimal place, okay. Yeah, so it's, it's real small. I've never done the math on it,
but you could, so you can have a lot of Bitcoin units. So even if Bitcoin was worth like a million
dollars, theoretically, the, the, the unit of Bitcoin is they've, they've called it the Satoshi.
So like that's, that's like .0000001 Bitcoin is one Satoshi. So, okay. So I think I did the math
once or even if Bitcoin was a million dollars, one Satoshi is still worth $5. So you could buy
coffee with it. Wow. Right. So it could be that, so I think you just did some math like, okay,
21 million is a good number. It's divisible, you know, it's, it's when you divide it up by, to the
eight decimal place, it's plenty of currency to go around and be used around the world practically
for, for things, but. And these, these apps that you use on your phone to buy stuff, did they do
the math for you? Like, do they automatically? Like wallets? Like wallets? Yeah, like the wallets.
Whatever. Yeah. However you transact on your phone. Yeah. Yeah. They'll, they, they usually keep up
with some exchange rate or something. And so you can either enter US dollar amount or the Bitcoin
amount, however you want to do it. Okay. So. Now, when we were talking about those alt coins,
like Litecoin or Ethereum or whatever, what did the Winklevoss twins, the two Facebook twins,
when they first got into Bitcoin, is that what they started doing was developing their own
alt coin? Or did they just invest a bunch of money into Bitcoin and
they, what they did is they, I don't know their thought processes when they got in exactly,
but they saw, they saw it as something very promising. And so they, when they got their
settlement from Facebook, you know, they had a fair amount of capital to play with. What they
started doing is they started investing in early Bitcoin companies that were dealing with Bitcoin.
So they were angel investors for a couple of companies, I think that, and then they bought
a ton of it. And they bought it at like, I don't know how much, I don't know what their cost basis
per coin was, but it's low. It was probably below $100 per coin. And they put millions and millions
into it. So they're worth a lot of money. What were the companies doing that they were investing
in the Bitcoin companies? The one I know about, I'm pretty sure about this. I'm not. It's called
Libra or something. No, that was Facebook's. Oh yeah. Zuckerberg tried to make a competing one.
That's, that's an interesting story too. That's, everything's a rabbit hole on crypto. So that's,
that's why it's so hard to talk about. So the, the wink of us, I believe they invested in Bit
Instant, which was, you could buy Bitcoin with credit card, you know, for the website.
The founder, one of the founders of that named Charlie Shrem, he actually lives in this area.
We should get him on. He lives around here. What's his name? Charlie Shrem. Charlie Shrem.
But he ended up being kind of made example of, he actually went to jail for a couple years for
some stuff involved, but Bit Instant basically ended up failing. But that didn't, the wink of us
that still didn't keep them from owning, they own a ton of Bitcoin. I don't know what it is,
how much it is, but they've definitely got billions of dollars and I think Bitcoin at this point.
Is Charlie the guy who was running Silk Road? No. That was Ross Ulbricht. Ross Ulbricht. Allegedly.
Allegedly. Okay. Is that the guy you were telling me about? Who? Yeah. We were talking about on the
phone. I think so. Yeah. What's his story? So he was in like a library or something. Yes,
that was crazy. So the Silk Road, there's been many versions after him. Yeah. Because I guess it's
a popular idea, but basically. And that's why Bitcoin has such a bad rap to it, because people
think about buying drugs or buying organs or buying whatever. Human trafficking. So basically,
Ross and or people around Ross or a group of people built this thing in 2000,
probably 11 or 10. Maybe 2010. No, no, it was probably 2011 or 12. They built this thing called
the Silk Road. It ran on the dark web, right? Which is sort of an area of the internet that
you can't really access unless you know how to get there. But it was basically eBay for,
but you used Bitcoin. And you could list anything on there. So while one could easily sell shirts or
chachkies or knitted sweaters, I'd say that there was a large amount of drug sales on the Silk Road.
And it was brought to the attention of some political folks. I think the famous video was
like Chuck Schumer, who is like looking at it. It was like a news story. And Chuck Schumer was like
scrolling. He's like, Oh my God, you can buy anything on here. And that's when they exploded.
Like that's when it became like, that was like huge advertising for them. And people were like,
Oh wait, I can do what? Yeah. So yeah, he went on Silk Road and you could buy basically you'd
pay for it with Bitcoin. And then it would get mailed to you. So just like eBay, except for
anything. Anything. Basically, it was free market, right? And so Ross was kind of
and there's no way of tracking you when you buy it with Bitcoin, right? There's no way anyone
can find out it was you. Well, unless you're like an extreme hacker. No, it's that's part of the
so Bitcoin is, there's a little tiny rabbit hole here. Bitcoin is what we call student anonymous.
It's not anonymous. Okay. So basically, you have you have an address that you're given, right?
Or that you that your wallet creates and it's just like a long string of characters, right?
It's like, I don't know how many 36 digits long or something like that. And it just looks like
gobbledygook. But that's your address. And so the way Bitcoin forms consensus, which is another
big innovation of Bitcoin is the ledger, which so it's like, if you have your money in a bank,
right? The bank has, you know, let's just imagine it's the olden days and they ascribe
said, okay, you came by and you deposited $10 in the bank. And so they make an entry in their
their little ledger says, okay, this account, this person's account plus $10. Then you come out next
day and you withdraw five. Okay, this person's account minus $5. That's how, you know, all the
banks in the world do it. There's some guy. And so if you come and you try to withdraw $15,
but you only have 10 in, they say, Oh, no, you don't have enough. So we can't, we can't give you
$15 because you only have 10 in there or five left, whatever. So the way that Bitcoin solves
this sort of problem of seeing who owns what, which is a big problem that they saw this is
the ledger for Bitcoin is public. So you can go and you can look on the Bitcoin blockchain.
There's like websites called Block Explorers that basically will check all these transactions
that the miners have written into the blockchain. And they'll, they can, if you put in an address,
you can see all the transactions that have ever happened with that address.
Really? But how do you know who had, who owns that address?
Don't necessarily. But if you can map a person to an address, like if, like if I send you a
Bitcoin address to pay me for something, right? Then you know, hey, that address belongs to Rich.
And then you can, you can go to Block Explorers and you can see my entire history for that address.
And then so the various authorities and or companies, organizations have actually gotten
very good at this sort of blockchain analysis stuff. There's lots of tricks they can use.
And so this is actually something that's, because remember the cypher punks were all about privacy.
So at the time it was thought to be when Bitcoin came out, people said it's private,
you know, and it was more or less, it's kind of anonymous. But with the tools that have come out
now, that's actually becoming more of a problem where people can kind of figure out who's doing
what on the blockchain through some complex analytics and stuff like that. There's, there's
like actually, actually not too long ago, the IRS put out a job posting, basically asking for
people who are experts in blockchain analysis. Really? Yeah, because they're very interested
in stuff too, because if people are making money on Bitcoin, they want to know.
We want you to pay tax on that shit, right? Exactly. Okay. So the original question though.
Yeah, I want to hear about how this guy got, the guy who started Silk Road and how he got
busted and what's going on with him. So he, I forget how I was tying all that in, but yeah,
so basically he built this, he built like an eBay where you can buy anything you want.
And people didn't like it. Well, no, people loved it. The government didn't like it.
So the FBI started investigating and figured out, and actually part of the,
I think one of the ways that they were able to track it to him is he had posted a Bitcoin address
at some point in a forum to like, for somebody to send money to him. And he went by the handle of
the Dread Pirate Roberts DPR. And, and so this, that was able to link, they were able to then
link it to, link that address to one of the Silk Road addresses. And then to that username,
and then just had to figure out who that username was. And a lot of people speculate that he may
have not been like the only guy running, but he was just maybe an admin or something. He definitely
was involved as far as we can tell. But he, so they figured out who he was. And yeah, they,
they did a sting operation on him. And they did it in a public library. He would go to a public
library to work. And so the big thing when you're dealing with somebody who's, you're trying to
investigate or get their, you know, any incriminating evidence that may be on their computer, right?
But he's a fairly knowledgeable crypto security guy. So like a lot of, if you're in a position like
him where he may or may not be like favorable to the government under investigation or something,
you might like have a thing where if you do a certain key press on your computer,
it encrypts your whole computer or if you close your lid, you know, you, it's encrypted.
It locked it so they can't get into it. So they set up this thing where this male and
female FBI agent pretended to get into a fight at, in the library, like right, they were like
right near him. And the fight was like escalated to a point where he felt like he needed to get
involved. So what he did is he sat his laptop down open and stood up to go approach them or
something. And that's the moment where they basically pounced and she, the dude moved to
restrain him. And then the girl went and threw this thumb drive thing in his computer that would
keep, keep it from shutting down and start downloading everything off of it.
What?
Yeah. They have these little, it's like a little, it's just like a little,
it's like a thumb drive that just sucks everything out of the computer.
Yeah, basically.
And he didn't have any kind of fail.
And it's also got like a mouse wiggler in it. So basically, like if the, so it won't let the
laptop go idle. You just keep wiggling the mouse or something. So it keeps, and then they,
so yeah, they got him and then they leveled all these crazy charges on him.
The, to this day, when I talked to people at Ross Olberg, they're like, oh yeah,
isn't that a guy that did murder for hire on the silk road?
There was a murder for hire charge placed on him as this long list of charges.
And one of them was murder for hire. And that's the one that made like all the headlines
that he basically was trying to have somebody off and pay them in Bitcoin, you know, this thing.
But, but before the trial even started, like that was completely dropped.
Like there was, it was completely baseless. No, no basis in fact whatsoever.
And, but it's enough to like, why did they come up with that? Why did they say that?
To smear him.
Really?
Yeah, I think nobody like tried to try to pay somebody on silk road as like a hit man.
There's the old saying that, you know, that a lie can go around the world twice before the
truth gets its shoes on. You know, that's funny.
So like, you know, the redaction of that or the fact that those charges are dropped isn't news.
But the charges themselves are good news. You know what I mean? Like, like posting that this
kid was doing murder for hire stuff, you know, makes sells newspapers, but like saying,
oh, that was retracted like a year later or doesn't. But either way, they, what they got him for.
Well, maybe they said that maybe they said that like somebody did like on silk road tried to
hire a hit man to commit a murder on his platform. No, they said, so therefore he said that he
did it himself. That was the, that was the implication was he did it himself.
Okay. But do you know, do you know, do you know if that was something that happened on silk road?
I don't think it did happen on silk road. No, it's not really like, I don't know how you would
advertise like murder. I mean, would you just say, I don't know if you put up a posting like,
hey, I'll kill people for you. I don't think enforcer or like, I don't think, I think they did
have, I think they did have terms of service. I'm not an expert on it, but I think they did have
terms of service. I'm pretty sure that would have been outside and they might have flagged it or
something. Yeah, it's not a flagged it. Okay. So I don't, I don't think that actually was happening
on silk road. And he definitely was not involved in it personally. So, but that, that kind of
helped soil his reputation though. And then, I mean, basically he was made example of, I think,
they hit him with like kingpin charges for, for all the drug stuff. It resulted in the arrests of
a bunch of people who were actually dealing drugs, because they were able to tie them,
tie their addresses to them personally through like chain analysis or something,
and they made misstates, missteps somewhere along the way to, to compromise their identities
on the blockchain. And they, so they were made several arrests on the
of actual drug dealers. But to my knowledge, I don't think Ross ever dealt any drugs. He just
ran the platform, you know, right? So what he made him, he hit like a middleman fee on
transactions and he was also the escrow agent. So like now if you send money to somebody,
you have PayPal, right? PayPal basically kind of holds the money until you transfer it and then
make sure that you send the goods, right? So they would act as like an escrow agent so that the
Bitcoin, they would hold the Bitcoin and then release it once it was delivered safely, you know,
so actually they were holding a lot of Bitcoin when it was seized. So a lot of people who were
using the platform lost a lot of Bitcoin to the government and they, they I guess were able to,
I don't know if it was on his laptop or via his laptop, they were able to get access to other
servers. But they, it was a lot of Bitcoin, it was like 600,000 Bitcoin or 60,000, something
like that Bitcoin that was on there. It was millions of dollars and they sent it out in
increments that I don't know what it is on the phone. But if you know, on a touchstone phone,
you got the numbers that line up with the, or the letters that line up, like in the old days,
if you wanted to text, you'd do like, you know, like two, let's see, like so I can't do it in my
head, but like, you know, two, one, three would, would like spell a word. It's like each letter had
three, each number had three letters attached to it. Like five, eight, eight upside down as boobs.
No, like that, like, uh, if you, anyhow, it was, I think it was like, see, one is ABC, two is,
um, on a, on a touchstone phone, two is, uh, three, so it was, yeah, I want to say it was,
it was two, one, they sent it, they sent it out in increments that was two, one,
three or four, two, one, four, and it was, it was the FBI. And like, if you typed it into a phone,
it'd be FBI and they, so they sent it out of the wall, out of the Ross Ulberg wallet in those
increments that made FBI. So it was like a hundred transactions of, of that amount to different
wallets that the, and then the government auctioned them off a couple years later.
Really? Yeah. Do you know what the current status of his, his cases?
Yeah, it's pretty sad. So he got, uh, like I said, level, like he had kingpin charges put on him.
So like, I can use a drug kingpin and he got a double life sentence. So he's in jail forever.
They've appealed it. A double life sentence for running a website where people can sell drugs.
I think he was like 20, like five or 26 when it was all happened. So yeah. So he's got a double
life sentence. His mom, who's a great person, his name, her name's Lynn. Um, uh, if you got a free
Ross.org, you can find a bunch of information about him and his case. She runs free Ross.org.
She's spoken at my meetup before, um, a couple years ago and you know, she basically, I mean,
she's his mom. So of course, but she talks about, they've done, they've appealed it all
the way to the Supreme court and basically his only hope now is a presidential pardon.
Really? It's always got left. Yeah. It's a presidential party. So there's,
so free Ross.org. They're trying to do like petitions and stuff to
How old was he when you went in? What's that? How old was he when he went into prison? He was in his 20s.
I'm pretty sure he was like 25, 26, something like that. You know, a couple years out of college
and you know, she says he was just an idealistic, idealistic kid. You know, he just wanted to
create this marketplace to facilitate trade and whatever he wasn't like trying to be a
drug king pan and ruin people's lives or anything like that or, um, but yeah, that's what you get
for building certain websites is double life sentences. So it's pretty bad. So yeah. But
there's more silk road, like there's more. Go ahead. What we're saying is anybody listening,
go to free Ross.org and check out his story and what you can do to help. Yeah. Now aren't there
other websites like silk road out there now? Like dark web to style websites where you can buy
as soon as that silk road went down, somebody built another one. And that one, that one scammed
everybody. Like, uh, the second one that was built, you know, once they got to a certain critical mass
you know, because they were acting as an escrow agent as well. So instead of the FBI stealing all
their money, uh, stealing all the users money, like the original silk road, this guy just,
once he got to a certain amount of Bitcoin that he had, um, he just shut everything down and took
the money and ran. But yeah, since then there have been tons, um, of people that makes different.
I mean, it's just, it was a good idea or a popular idea. Got a lot of traction. So and you think
about it, you know, if you, if you're into doing drugs, whatever, uh, it's a pretty safe way of
acquiring. Like I know that there's, I mean, I had a friend of mine in college who he got
like carjacked and beat up once just trying to get, um, some drugs from some neighborhood once.
Oh, you mean like on the streets? Yeah, he went to the wrong neighborhood and they stole his car,
had his guitar, his heavy guitar in the back seat. Yeah, stole his car and beat him up. God damn,
dude. And, uh, he was just trying to buy some weed, I think. What? Where was he? It was in Augusta,
Georgia. Okay. Yeah. So, um, so it's dangerous. I mean, it's, uh, for all parties involved,
you know, just paying some money and getting into the mail. If it's just something you're, you know,
it's just for your own recreational purposes and whatever. And you know, it's your body,
you can screw it up however you want or, or become enlightened, however you look at it. Yeah. Right.
They see the legalized drug, man. It makes everything so much better. All drugs.
Yeah. I mean, the war on drugs has been pretty terrible for our country and the world. Like it's,
it's definitely failed and, uh, it definitely needs to go. The biggest hoax ever.
Well, and it's the biggest overreach. I mean, I've been, I've had my car searched, uh, at least two
times, um, just based on, one was when I was a teenager and the cop was like, Hey, you know,
can we start your car? And I was an idiot and I was like, Yeah, sure. I don't care. And, uh,
I mean that, because I knew there was nothing in there, but my, this is my dad's car before it was
mine. Oh, shit. He found something like pill bottles for my dad's prescription. What are these?
And I was like, I don't know, man. Like, you know, it's just my dad had my name. He's the same name
as mine. So my name on it. And I was like, I don't know, man. It was my dad. And it's like,
still he was trying, you know, they're trying to find something. And then the second time was
maybe five, six years ago. Yeah. And, uh, then I was smarter and I was like, no, you can't search
my vehicle. And next thing I know, they had a dog there and they told me that the dog
had alerted to my vehicle and then the dog was in my car. And I was like, yeah. Well,
that's happened to me multiple times on the way to, uh, back and forth from Miami and the Keys.
Really? Yeah. On Alligator Alley. There's a road that I don't know if you're very familiar with,
like South Florida, but there's a, there's this long stretch of road that goes from the west
coast of Florida to the east coast of Florida, like down low. And that's where a lot of the drug
traffickers are notorious for traveling and smuggling shit. And I, when I was younger, I got
pulled over almost every time that I drove down that road, get my car completely stripped,
everything. Right. Even if you said no, but that's a wormhole too. That's a whole,
I mean, that's a whole other rabbit hole. We could go down to the war on drugs, but
like, I get in a lot of arguments about life, uh, about politics and, uh, um,
you know, like the fairness of unfairness of our society in a lot of ways. Yeah. And really,
I think that it's, I mean, a lot of it orbits right around that, this whole criminalization of
drugs and what people want to do with their own bodies. Right. And, and the, uh,
I mean, luckily we're in a time where like weed is becoming, you know, marijuana is becoming legal
in most places, um, especially from bed. I mean, if it's even legal in Georgia for medical use,
medical marijuana is legal as far as I know, CBD is legal in Georgia. Um, and we're not exactly
known for being a progressive state. So, um, I mean, I think that, you know, putting people
in prison for nonviolent things is, uh, I mean, even Trump, uh, did something a couple of years
ago where he rolled out some forgiveness program for people with nonviolent, uh, people with nonviolent
drug offenses and stuff like that. Cause I mean it ruins, I mean, you ruin people's lives. Actually
funny enough, I was just that, uh, a diner before I came here and I was talking to this guy there
and he's older now. He's probably in late fifties, but he said that he, um, he'd gone to jail for
four years in the nineties for dealing cocaine. Really? Yeah. He's like, you know, it's part of
my story now. It's fine. He's a successful guy now. You know, he came out and he's doing fine,
but you know, it just, it drags so many people into it that really, you know, otherwise be
productive members of society. Yeah. You get sucked into that system, that, that you did,
that criminal justice system that it's just, it's, it's, it's slavery is what it is. I mean,
it's literally just like modern day slavery. Yeah. Well, I don't know if they're out doing
work in the fields, but I know, right, but they work for those prison that the people in those
prisons, they, they do a shitload of work and they make, I forget what the number is, but they
make those federal prisons get paid a certain amount of money per inmate per day. Right. It
definitely feeds the bureaucracy. Right. And, uh, yeah. So there's a, I recommend a book. I
forget the author's name, but he's from Florida. Uh, it's called a rest proof yourself. I would
definitely read that. A rest proof yourself. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. It's good book. It's
unaudible. So you can listen to it while you're driving to the keys. Okay. Yeah. I haven't driven
in a while, but that's a good one. I'll have to check that one out. I just read that recently.
It's really good. Um, but it talks about, he calls it the, uh, electronic plantation,
which is the, it's basically what he calls the NCIC, uh, national arrest records.
Basically, even if you're arrested in this country now, it goes into the NCIC database.
Um, even if everything's dropped, even if you get paid by the state, because it was all done
improperly and you're, you're innocent, um, just having that arrest record can really screw up your
life. Um, and he goes through all kinds of examples of how that is. Really? Yeah. You said he's in
Florida? Yeah. He lives in Florida. I forget his name, but he wrote it like 10 years ago,
but it's still an interesting book. So yeah, a rest proof yourself, but it just kind of goes into
how corrupt and how instead of a, how arrest happy our nation is. And then with the, when you
combine that with, uh, the drug, the war on drugs, um, where you can get people to go into jail for
just having possession of something. I mean, it just, it's, it's, it's, if we could get rid
of that one, if I could say, if I could snap my fingers and say there's one thing to get rid of
in the, in this country, I think even ahead of, even ahead of like the, uh, the whole fiat money
system, the federal reserve system where like our money is backed by nothing, I would probably just
get rid of the war on drugs. I think that would help. There's a country, I can't remember, I can
never remember exactly what country it is, but there's a country that actually made all like
the hardcore drugs legal. And if you want, if you're a heroin addict, you can actually go
into a clinic and have a conversation with, uh, a doctor who can like tell, like talks to you
about what the effects of them are. And if you want to safely take your heroin, they'll give
you a fucking syringe. And I think it's like Spain or something like that. It's not Spain. Maybe it
is, I don't, I don't know. It's, it is some, yeah, I've, I've heard that same thing, but they've seen
a huge drop in crime, like a massive, their crime rate is extremely low because of that.
When you treat it like a, you know, a disease instead of making them a criminal, you know,
you help a lot of things. I mean, a lot of people are just self-medicating themselves for
pain and suffering and whatever, you know, and so like,
Especially here, right? Especially in this country. A lot of people are unhappy.
Yeah, I guess so. We got the opioid crisis or whatever. But, um,
Yeah, I don't know, man. I think that's a, but like I was saying, the Silk Road, it just, they
provided a safer way. I mean, it's happening anyway. I mean, people are going to go find this
stuff. If they want it, they can find it. It's a safe way to do it. It's a safer way to do it,
in my opinion. So, I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's to a degree charitable. And I've talked to people,
I've had some conversations with people, not many, uh, that, that have used those types of things
and both that, like on both sides of the transaction. And they were just like, yeah, man,
it's just night and day. They liked it. Oh yeah. I mean, just because of the safety and the,
and the ease of it. And yeah, so. So, what's the best way for me to start investing in Bitcoin?
Do I use, do I use one of these altcoins, like Litecoin or Ethereum? Well, there's literally
thousands and thousands of altcoins now. Right. And they're all just, so
what's the difference between most of these altcoins and the original Bitcoin?
They all have various, some of them, like Litecoin I told you about, they were just like,
they even like, dubbed themselves when they came out, like Bitcoin is gold and will be silver.
They had a faster block time. There's going to be more of them admitted in the end because of
that faster block time, I'm pretty sure. And, um, but literally it was just a copy and paste of the
code. There's no new functionality. Just trying to rebrand it and make money and it worked out.
And it's still a fairly valuable coin, you know, despite what is so, so then there's a lot of other
ones though that, um, the ad functionality of some kind. So there's a lot of experimentation
happening. So Ethereum. Yeah, this kid Vitalik, right? He's getting flown. He's meeting with
Vladimir Putin and the Kremlin and he's all over, like, what's so special about this kid?
I think he's Canadian and he is, uh, but he's a Russian son of Russian immigrants.
So he's a scary looking kid. He's funny. There's lots of really funny memes of him.
I bet. I bet. He's a famous meme, uh, Vitalik laughing anyhow. I've met him, uh,
in 2014 at a conference before Ethereum launched and, uh, he was just a kid that was writing for,
uh, Bitcoin, was it Bitcoin magazine? Yeah, Bitcoin magazine. He was just doing some writing for them
and he was super interested in Bitcoin. He was a programmer and, uh, I mean, at the time he,
he couldn't have been over 20 years old and, um, and so yeah, he just, uh,
I think he actually was trying to pitch some of his ideas to the Bitcoin, uh, sort of core
developing team, the guys who kind of maintained Bitcoin. Um, but in the end he just ended up
launching Ethereum and it's basically a smart contract. It's called a smart contracts platform.
So, uh, it just adds a bunch of, that's what Ethereum is. Yeah. It adds a bunch of sort of
a code layer on top of the currency. And actually he never really envisioned, according to him,
he never envisioned Ethereum itself being like a currency. It's just, it's just the, the token that
everything runs on, on his, on, on all these smart contracts. So smart contracts can do things like,
uh, basically instead of Bitcoin where you just, okay, I want to send it to you. I want to send
it to you now. Okay. Did you get it? Yes, I got it. Uh, Bitcoin can do some other things and it
can actually do smart contracts too. It just hasn't really been built out. But instead of that,
you can make a lot of more complicated, a lot more complicated, uh, things happen on Ethereum.
Like, uh, you can make a smart contract that say if you put your coins in it, uh, it'll send them
out to everybody in three weeks or something. It'll send them out to these four people or
something like that. Or if, uh, if you want to have a job done or something, you could send it
to a smart contract. And once you, you know, that way the guy doing the job knows that the funds
are there and locked in the first smart contract. And then maybe once you guys both agree that
everything's done to satisfaction, then the funds get dispersed to whoever needs them.
And then there's lots of more complicated, uh, use cases. But one of the, one of the main ones
that's happening right now, like as we speak, that's kind of a big deal. You asked me, where can you
get Bitcoin? Okay. Where can you get this? That was your initial question. Um, so the answer to that
a year ago, well, the answer to that now is still there's centralized exchanges.
So there's, there's people who have set up services. Like the one I told you about earlier,
a bit instant where you just buy Bitcoin with a credit card. One of the earliest ones, well,
the earliest one, I think was one called MT Gox, um, which, uh, stands for magic, the gathering
online exchange. Oh yeah. I heard of that one. Uh, it was a, it was a, it was basically eBay
for, it was based in Japan for trading magic cards, which is like a, a fantasy card game. Yeah. So,
you know, so they had this like marketplace kind of thing. And the owner of the guy that
bought it was this French guy. Uh, I can't believe I forgot his name. Anyhow, he, uh,
uh, he bought it and decided that he wanted to add like a Bitcoin market. Like, okay,
he can buy Bitcoins here. And so he just put a thing up where they were selling Bitcoins
because I guess he was mining them or whatever. And it became like a huge thing. And then they
can ditched the, they kept, they were still called Mount Gox or MT Gox. They ditched the
card trading thing altogether. It was gone. They just became a Bitcoin exchange.
So you could wire them money. Uh, and then they would send you Bitcoin or ACH money to them.
Um, and there were no restrictions pretty much whatsoever,
but they went down in 2014 kind of epically. How do they go down? Um, I think it was a hack.
It could have been an inside job. It's still under investigation. Oh,
and then it was like millions and millions of dollars. Yeah, lots, lots of money. It was in
having some time in early 2014. Uh, they, their website went down first. What happened first?
They'd had a bunch of scares. First of all, like it wasn't very well run. Uh, so they'd have a
bunch of, they'd had problems for like ever, uh, with scale, you know, scaling to meet this
huge demand that was coming in and, and, and so they'd have problems. And they usually had fixed
them and they had like a big lead in the whole current network network effect. Like they were
the big name. And, uh, yeah, then one day, I think in like January, February,
2013, they stopped doing Bitcoin withdrawals. So they suspended with Bitcoin withdrawals.
And people were like, Whoa, what's going on with that? And then, um,
their, uh, their website was still up so people could still log in and, and you could actually
trade Bitcoin between users still. And so this one guy had this brilliant idea. It was really
brilliant. He made it, he made another exchange. He called it Bitcoin builder.com. And so he was
like, okay, if you send me your coins on Mt. Gox, I'll credit you on my website and you can exchange
your Mt. Gox coins for real Bitcoin for people who want to deposit and buy. So it was a way for
basically people to speculate on what I thought Mt. Gox would come online again or not, which I
actually partook in and lost. I noticed people lost a lot of money doing that though. So yeah,
it was, it was dumb of me. But so yeah, basically I went on and bought, I sent Bitcoin to this guy
Bitcoin builder.com. And I bought, so if, if I had sent one Bitcoin in there or something,
I could buy like four Gox coins, right? Cause everybody's, so if Mt. Gox just was like, okay,
everything's fine. Bam, I would have had four Bitcoin basically that I could have withdrawn.
But of course that's not what happened. They went down and one day their website went down and
and it came out later that they were hacked and then there was another exchange implicated that
went down a couple years later called BTC-E. They were a Russian exchange and they, the FBI took
them down somehow. But they said they were implicated actually in the Mt. Gox hack. So I
think Mt. Gox, that's still on like the people who have like bankruptcy claims against Mt. Gox
because they filed bankruptcy. So anybody who had coins there could
maybe get something back through the bankruptcy process. It's still ongoing as far as I know.
What happened to all those coins that got stolen?
They went out and got laundered through in various places. I think BTC-E was involved in that somehow.
But again, you can kind of track them, like theoretically you can track them, but
I'm not sure if, since it's all under investigation, I'm not sure if that has been made public. What
happened to them? Yeah, because you would think it would all be trackable, right? You'd be able
to figure out where everything went. Right. But I don't know. I'm sure there are people that
have gone down that rabbit hole. I haven't particularly, but that brings me to a sort of
another point though. There's a saying in crypto, since we're talking about exchanges and how to
buy it. There's a lot of exchanges now in the U.S. It's not like the old days though, where you
just send money and you get Bitcoin back. It's pretty heavily regulated now, which has its good
things and its bad things. I'd say mostly bad, but they have to verify who you are. Follow all
the sort of anti-Munday laundering, know your customer laws. The big ones are Coinbase and Gemini.
Of those two, I kind of like Gemini better. Gemini, that's the Winklevoss. Yes. Winklevoss
twins. Winklevoss twins, the Gemini twins. That's their exchange that they built. The thing is,
when you hold, when a lot of people, and I know a lot of people who've been in Bitcoin for a long
time, they still do this, they leave their coins on the exchange, like in the exchange wallet.
Essentially, what you're doing then is you're holding your coins
in somebody else's ledger, just like you have it in a bank. If you have your money in your bank,
if that bank becomes insolvent or something, there's FDIC insurance, which is another rabbit hole,
to insure you, but essentially that money is gone if somebody, if the bank becomes insolvent.
If these exchanges, so when Mt. Gox became insolvent and went under and those coins got,
I mean, it was game over for, I know people that lost hundreds of Bitcoins on Mt. Gox,
and so it was, it's just gone, man. It sucks. It's a wild west, you know. And so
whenever you're sending them to these exchanges, you're taking your Bitcoin, which is
kept track of on the Bitcoin blockchain, so that means you have an account balance
on the Bitcoin blockchain ledger. That's the one that I told you that's shared across all the
computers and everything. There's, short of the entire internet shutting down, there's nothing
that can really take, or you losing your access to those by losing, not taking care of your
security well enough or losing your hard drive dies and you didn't have backups. Short of that,
there's nobody can take that money from you, that does Bitcoin from you. Nobody can go and seize them
easily unless they physically take your computer and force you to send them out, you know.
But once you put them on a third-party exchange, it's just an entry on their bank ledger. They
control the actual asset, the Bitcoin. You don't control it anymore, so if they go under, if they
get hacked, whatever, your stuff's all at risk of that. And they're pretty big, you know, a lot of
these exchanges, they're pretty big honeypots, you know. Hackers are always trying to get into
exchange wallets. They've gotten very good at, the exchanges have gotten very good at
securing the coins. How the hell do you pay taxes on your Bitcoin? If it's so volatile,
the price goes up and down. What if you would have bought it at like $10,000, but in December,
it's worth 30. The way the IRS handles it is if you, it's just like any other investment,
so the same thing with stocks, like you can hold the stock and go up to 100 and then back down
to what you bought it for, you know. They count it whenever you convert it back to US dollars.
So that's the taxable event is when you convert it to US dollars, yeah. So you can hold Bitcoin,
you can buy it at $100 and then it goes up to $1300 and it goes back down to $200. As long as you
didn't sell at any point in there, there's no taxable event. Okay. So, but there's, and the
crypto universe and taxation is a nightmare, frankly. I bet. Yeah, you'd have to get like
a specialized accountant if you're doing anything crazy with crypto to deal with that. But if you're
just, you know, buying the coins and holding them, stuff like that, it's pretty straightforward,
just like buying anything else and holding it. Okay. What kind of stuff are you doing in Atlanta?
What kind of, you do a lot of conferences and stuff? We do our normal Bitcoin meetup.
Of course, we haven't done, we did our first one since COVID hit last month,
but basically we just kind of are top, topical. We do something like, I think we're having none
next week. We're going to talk about Fedcoin, which is a Federal Reserve is actually going to be
rolling out some interesting stuff next year, probably that's kind of similar to its own version
of Bitcoin. Interesting. Yeah. There's this law that got passed in March. Anyhow, we're going to
talk about that. Usually it's something topical. We get together at this co-working space at an
executive airport in Atlanta called Pichardy Cab Airport at the Globe Hub. And we usually have
barbecue and stuff. And it's just more like a social club of people who are interested in
Bitcoin and crypto. So that's what we do there in Atlanta. So it's bitcoinatlanta.org.
And I do have a crypto consulting company called ClarkCrypto.com.
Okay. What's it called? Clark Crypto. My last name is Clark. C-L-A-R-K.
Actually, but if you type either one in, you can get there.
Crypto Clark or Clark Crypto. You have both just in case they type it wrong.
So it's ClarkCrypto.com. So I'll do consulting for anything as simple as, hey, can you help me buy
some Bitcoin or help me navigate these exchanges or whatever all the way up to helping
people? I know a lot of people in the business. So if I don't know the answer to your question,
I can point you in the right direction. So legal consulting for like, if you want to launch like
a token or something, can help you with the tokenomics and the legal aspects of that,
of doing a launch. And securing your coins is a big thing I like to talk to people about
because with great freedom, because you basically, Barack Obama actually
gave us like the best line for Bitcoin. He said, if the cryptography can't be broken,
it's just like people running around with Swiss bank accounts in their pockets,
which is what you see like having a Bitcoin wallet is basically, is like, that's exactly
bright. That's exactly what it is. So, but you have to be able to secure them properly.
You don't want, you just want to do some best practices type of things. So help people with
that. Also have a friend of mine who does wallet recovery, you know, if you screw something up
and you think you've lost your bitcoins, he can help you recover them. But yeah, I,
but there's a lot of great products coming out that are making it easier and easier to
to store your coins effectively. This company Edge, they're, they don't pay me or anything.
I just am a big fan of them. They have a wallet, they're out of California, the Edge wallet.
And I've known their founder since 2014. And they, they kind of try and straddle that line of,
you know, we want your grandma to be able to use this, but we also want to back it up and make
it secure. So you can, and so I've done it where I've got a new phone or something and I just go
on and install the app, enter my username and password and bam, it's all repopulated from
their backups, but they don't actually keep anything on their servers. So even if, even if
they got rated or something, all the, all the data they have, or if they got hacked, all the data
they have on their wallets is all encrypted on your device. So if you forget your username and
password. It's compartmentalized. Yeah. So, so they never get any raw data on their end,
but yeah, if you remember your username and password, you can restore it on any device,
stuff like that. So you can also buy cryptocurrency through their wallet too. Oh really? Okay.
They have a, they have a service now. They just started a year or two ago.
So, sweet. I got to get on that. Yeah. Well, I'll set you up with someone. I'll send you
with someone after this. Hell yeah. Let's do it, man. But that's, that's what I'm up to. And
I don't know. I feel like, I feel like we jumped around a lot. I hope somebody,
you guys got something out of it. Yeah. Well, I definitely did. I definitely learned a lot. It's
super fascinating subjects and there's tons, like you said, tons of rabbit holes you can,
you can get lost down. Right. We should do it again. Yeah, we will try and do like a
more linear regression through, through everything. But yeah, the moral of the story is
the takeaways. Inflation is a giant hidden tax on the world. The governments of all,
all the world governments use against their populace to basically, we don't even need a
tax system anymore. They could just, they could just print the money and through inflation,
do everything they wanted at this point. Someday it'll fall apart, but until it does,
it's a game. God, Graham, can you imagine that day?
I don't want to, but I mean. They, they don't want, I mean, they want to regulate it. The thing is,
they're very smart and they've got a lot of, I mean, they've got a lot of levers they can pull
to keep things going. But Bitcoin is like gold and silver, a hedge against inflation,
which inflation is, you know, they say like death and taxes. Well, these days death and inflation
are like, sure, sure thing. So because of the limited supply of Bitcoin, I think it's going to be a
a sink for a lot of US dollars that are printed out of thin air. And I'm, you know,
I'm a big anti, anti, anti war on drugs. I'm a big anti war guy though too. And so
really the, this whole notion of like global war that we've, that we've like World War One,
World War Two, and then this kind of whatever we have now, which is just like wars going on all
the time, you know, the Middle East or whatever, they all couldn't be funded without this fiat
money system where they can tax everybody stealthily, you know, through this hidden tax of inflation
where gradually your savings are eroded and your and income never keeps up with it. Like I was
talking to the Uber driver last night, your income, you know, he, there's all this new money in the
economy and yeah, and but he gets paid the same. He's not making, you know, Uber still pays him
the same rates pretty much, maybe even less, right? Because, you know, there's so many people
driving Uber now unemployment and all that stuff. So the wage is never quite keep up with inflation.
So even if like inflation is really like 4% a year every year, let's just say like,
that's the inflation rate. Most employers give like 3%, right? But if you magnify that out over
40 years, right? Where's that money go? That's a 40% reduction in your salary. Like, you know what I mean?
Oh, yeah, right. One percent difference there. So inflation is 4%, but your salary only goes up
3%. So it's a 1%. You take that over a 40 year career. That means that if you're working kind of the
same job for 40 years, which a lot of people do on that 40th year when you retire, you're as far as
like keeping up with your expenses. You're 40% less well off than when you started.
God damn. That's dark.
Yeah. But that's why everybody, that's why all households, you know, used to be in the 50s and
60s. One dude could make money for his whole family and the wife could stay home with the kids or
whatever. But now everybody's, you know, two income family. You have to have like a two income family
to keep up. So sound money and Bitcoin are the answer to that. End the wars. If you want to end
war and increase the living standard of more people in the world, buy Bitcoin.
It'll solve your problems. Awesome, man. Well, thanks for coming down and doing this. I really
appreciate it. And I hope you guys enjoyed. Thanks guys.
