So my sentence was 15 to life and what that means is you have to do 15 years minimum before
you then see the parole board and the life part of it means that there was never going
to come a point in time where they were legally obligated to release me.
It was just going to be up to their discretion and I would just, yes.
A maximum security.
I was sent to a maximum security prison at 17 years old.
At 17 years old.
Yeah.
Very dangerous, very frightening.
And I'm there with fully formed adults, many of whom are guilty of very serious violent
crimes and I'm 17 years old and I'm from the suburbs, I don't think I've been in very
many fights to that point and I'm there with grown men and then I have this bullseye on
my back because I'm convicted of rape along with a murder and there's a vigilante mentality
towards people who are convicted of sex offenses.
So very frightening and dangerous situation.
How far away was this prison from?
Yeah.
Social murder correction facility.
And it was four, four and a half hours away from peak scale.
Okay.
And during that whole process of being incarcerated, like going through the processing and all
that, like what was that experience like for you?
And actually getting there and staying there for the first time.
Yeah.
Well, it was very frightening.
And I remember being, you know, having on handcuffs and a chain around my waist and having
my legs fast together and fastened to the legs of the prisoner on the bus next to me.
I remember how large the prison wall loomed and how menacing the barbed wire appeared.
Yet the wheels of the bus kept turning, bringing me closer and closer to and eventually into,
you know, the prison.
As I walked down the cell gallery, there were a lot of prisoners there whose arms were
as big as my legs.
So, you know, it was really frightening just as was the fact that I was entering a facility
where, you know, the guards were in charge rather than the civilians and that in and
of itself was kind of like a frightening prospect, frightening reality as well.
But I would describe prison as a nonstop obstacle course featuring the guards, other civilians
and other prisoners as obstacles to the main objective, which is to overturn the conviction
and regain my freedom.
You know, I had to keep fighting off feelings of hopelessness, hopelessness, thoughts of
giving up, suicidal ideation.
It was very hard to adjust to being in the cell.
So Almyra gave us recreation at night, but like every other night.
So the nights we didn't have recreation, I would be in the cell from like about 5, 5,
20 forward.
I mean, you know, just go out for dinner and then be in the cell from 5, 20 afterwards.
So it took a couple of years for me to just get used to being in the cell.
I mean, I just tried to sleep the time away.
I mean, in time I came up with other things to do while I was in the cell.
I came up with other coping patterns.
But people have asked me a lot, like, you know, how did I deal with being in prison?
What kept me going?
So it was, belief in God was one thing.
And another thing was that I, in my mind, I was kind of living from appeal to appeal.
Like I didn't focus that I had a 15 to life sentence.
I was just trying to make it to the next year or two and where I was, you know, for the
next appeal to be decided, which I was sure that I was going to, I was going to win because
I knew I was innocent and I still believed in the system.
Just to go to a law library and learning the law kind of gave a sense of comfort and empowerment.
I would collect articles about other people who were exonerated and I used that as motivation
to keep going.
In 1997, Elmira correctional facility let us purchase televisions.
So I purchased a TV and I had the television in a cell.
I mean, for the most part it stayed off because I was doing legal work and writing letters
looking for help, but I did watch certain programs like each week.
And so I, that was part of the coping process.
But the other thing was that, you know, I kind of engaged in a delusion there.
Like when I would watch certain programs like each week, like I would pretend like I was
visiting with friends because I was having very few visitors.
My mother was the only person who consistently came to see me.
But you know, she would cancel visits a lot and there would be, as the years went on,
I saw her last and last, the last five, six years I was lucky if I saw her once every
six months.
What was the total amount of time you were in there?
16 years.
So you were in there for a full 16 years?
I was, yeah.
Did prison change you as a human?
Well, yeah, I did.
And yeah, in the sense, I mean, it's common for there to be psychological after effects
of being incarcerated.
What aspects of it changed you?
I don't like to hope because if you hope then you can be let down and then you can be hurt.
So there's that.
I don't, I don't like processes where whether I'm going to be allowed to do something or
not that I want to do is somehow going to be in the hands of somebody else.
So because I'm used to just being disappointed, I mean, think about, you know, and I was in
the hands of my defense attorney and then, you know, that's what get into it after.
But I, in the course of being incarcerated, I mean, I lost seven appeals.
I mean, so, you know, I definitely would like to get into that a little bit after, but you
know, being let down in the appeals and then, you know, writing letters for four years.
Once my appeals were over, trying to find someone to take my case for free so I could
find some new evidence.
Those were all disappointments going to the parole board and, you know, walking around
the prison the next three days thinking I had somehow defied the odds and that I'd be
going home only to learn that I would not, which is how I wound up doing 16 years off
of 15 a life sentence.
You know, all those, even down to a minor level, if I had to ask a guard for one thing
or another that I was, you know, supposed to have or entitled to and, you know, just
having that as a short shrift type of thing.
So all those, all the sum total of that is what I'm getting at when I'm saying I don't,
you know, I don't like putting decision in people's hands.
I'm used to disappointment.
So I think it changed me in that aspect of things.
And, you know, I like to, I don't have, like to have a lot of things going on at the same
time and I think it's to be orderly and linear and logical and if they don't, then they feel
kind of like an out of control feeling and, you know, that kind of again ties back to
what happened to me.
Like when I lost in federal court, I lost because my attorney was given the wrong information
by the court clerk, which resulted in my paperwork arriving four days too late, which the court
thought was more important to deal with.
You know, at the time, the district attorney at the time, Jeanine Pirro, her office asked
the court just ruled that he's late and just dismisses case without looking at the rest
of the issues.
And that's what the court did.
And then I challenged that decision three times.
I challenged and went to federal court, the court of appeals on the issue of whether they
should, whether that was the correct ruling to time bar me and where future U.S. Supreme
Court, just as Sonya Soda may or she upheld her and her colleague, Rosemary Poole, they
upheld that ruling.
And then I asked to re-argue it in front of them and they up, they denied the re-argument
and the U.S. Supreme Court denied me.
So my point in mentioning that is, you know, I know how like one minor thing can snowball
and speedball into something really big that has a catastrophic result at the end.
So I still kind of have that in my mind a little bit.
So I feel like it affected me that way.
Certainly in terms of my social life, it kind of knocked the train off of the rails.
I mean, as I described before, you know, I had a rather large social circle as a kid
prior to everything happening to me.
And you know, when I got arrested, I lost touch with everybody except for like one of
my friends.
And, you know, he stayed in touch with me for about five years before we lost contact.
But my point is that I don't feel like I've really recovered socially in terms of being
able to build like a new social network of, you know, associates and activity partners
and friends.
That's what I'm trying to say.
That's another way that it kind of that's another way that it kind of impacted me.
But look, I don't I don't think all of it was was well, certainly, I mean, it had a
lot.
I went through a lot of stages of development as a, I mean, you were a kid, I was a kid.
You were growing up.
Yes.
And I did that in prison.
Yes, you're right.
And I guess my point that that I'm trying to make now is that as a 32 year old, I had
to do things, you know, rights of passage and things that normally would have been done
much earlier.
So I had never, I didn't have, I didn't have, I didn't have a driver's license.
I had never lived alone before.
I never went shopping.
I had never wrote a check.
I had never had to balance a budget.
So those were, those were things that I had to do much later in life.
So I think that was a particular challenge at reintegrating.
The thing that I've noticed about people that I've talked to that spent a lot of time in
prison is, you know, most all of them that I've talked to, they, they, they went in much
later in life.
And what they describe is this reflect it, reflect how they have to reflect on their
lives once they get in there.
Like you're, when you're in a cell and you're, and you're alone for, especially even like
a lot of these people that I've talked to, they spent time in the shoe and it's the one
thing that they describe is the amount of self reflection that has to go into that.
Like reflecting on all the decisions they've made throughout their lives and what they've
done and writing and working through the thoughts and the decisions that they've made throughout
their lives.
Cause most of them were guilty and they have committed crimes and they've worked themselves,
they've worked their way mentally through that.
So I'm wondering if someone as young as yourself, A, you're innocent, you actually didn't commit
the crime.
B, you're so young, you hadn't been through that much already.
Like you hadn't had many life experiences.
So it must have been so much different for somebody like you.
Yeah, it definitely was different because like, look, I met a lot of prisoners, like
you said, you know, and they said to me, look, you know, I did what I did, you know, I got
caught, I was wrong.
I'm not going to cry about them.
Just make the best of it and try to go home as quickly as I can.
But for me, I could never get to that place because as you correctly point out, you know,
I was innocent.
So, you know, I could never get there.
So the experience of doing time while you were, while, while innocent, I think is much
different than the experience of doing time while, while you were guilty.
And then again, you know, just as you're mentioning, you know, just, just doing that, you know,
while, while being young, I think made it, made it very, made it especially difficult.
Like I remember, I remember that one of the correction officers said to me when I arrived
at Elmira, they said to me, well, do you want to go to protective custody?
And I'm like, well, what's that?
Well, that's, that's if you feel that your life's in danger.
You know, the only way we could really protect you is if you go to protective custody.
And what that would involve is that you would be in the cell 23 hours a day out of 24, you
know, you would go to the recreation area by yourself, you'd use a phone by yourself.
And, you know, you wouldn't be able to go to school or go to any programs.
But on the other hand, you would, you would be, you would be safe.
And you know, I couldn't, you know, I couldn't deal with being in the cell as it was much
less agreeing to be in there 23 hours a day for like, you know what?
The next, the next hour of the long, I was going to be with the next 15 years.
So as a 17 year old, I remember thinking that, and here was my line of reasoning.
Imagine going through this line of reasoning and coming out with this conclusion at that
age.
I remember thinking to myself, well, you know, I can't, I can't believe I'm here.
I can't believe I've been found guilty of a crime I didn't commit.
I can't believe I'm in prison.
I'm not going to make things worse by going to protective custody.
So, you know, I'm, I'm going to go to a general population and take my chances.
And if somebody kills me, well, then I guess I don't need to worry about doing the rest
of this life sentence.
Right.
Right.
It's brutal.
That is, I think also in terms of coping with being, being in prison, a few things.
So I didn't, I didn't really have the luxury of losing my mind because I knew that nobody
was coming to my rescue.
So I knew at least no one that I, that I knew.
And so I was going to have to try to find somebody that I didn't know before and hoped
that that person could, could come to become a champion for me and try to build the bridge
between me and the necessary legal help that I needed as I had read it happen in other
cases.
And to do that, I knew that I was going to have to hold it together to maximize my chances
of doing that.
So that was another aspect of it and another aspect, the psychological, psychologically
the utilization of euphemisms.
So I'm not going to my, you know, prison assignment in the morning or the afternoon, I'm going
to school or I'm going to work.
It's not the prison warden.
It's the superintendent.
It's not the guards.
It's the correction officers.
So those things, then from 1998 to 2006, I read three or four books, nonfiction books
a week.
So I kept my mind going, kept my mind going while I was in.
And lastly, when I played sports, and I wrote about this in an op ed that sports illustrated
published, when I would play basketball, ping pong and chess, I engage in this elaborate
delusion, like, like if I was a professional player and so were the other people, you know,
but it wasn't like kids fooling around, like on a, on a playground.
This was like, this was a defense mechanism, like I needed to get out of the prison for
a couple of hours.
So I engaged in this delusion that way.
And so all of those things were, were factors, I mean, when I would listen to sports talk
radio, for example, it was not listening to sports talk radio, it's, this was like a
lifeline to the, to the outside.
And in that context, you know, I'm just considering, you know, that had very little contact with
the, with the outside.
I mean, my brother was three and a half years younger than me.
He came to see me three times in 16 years, not at all in, in the last decade.
My mother was my only consistent visitor, but like I said, last five, six years, I would
see her once every like six months, set a couple of sets of aunts and uncles that would
come, but then they would disappear for three years.
And then it would keep going.
So I had very little contact with the outside.
So for most intents and purposes, though not literal, I would, I did the time by myself.
And I said that to say this last point that I also, I placed the ad in the paper looking
for a pen pal.
I was in the, I put it, the ad in the sack, the small paper called the Sacramento Bee.
And I picked that paper because one of the other inmates had suggested that to me.
So I had placed ads and some local papers looking for just for just hungry and desperate
for contact with the outside.
And again, hoping that from pen pal, maybe the champion to ultimately legal help.
That was, I had all that in my head at the same time.
But I got in trouble a couple of times for placing those ads in local papers.
So some of the guards saw it and I got in trouble for that.
So I thought, well, this paper out in Sacramento is not likely that anybody here is going to
going to see.
So somebody wrote me, this guy named Scott wrote me.
So I felt like this pen pal showed up at just in the nick of time.
And like I was asking the stranger that I didn't know from anywhere.
I was asking him, well, do you, do you think I should quit?
You think I should, you know, quit this and you think I should just, you know, go ahead
and kill myself.
I'm just get out.
I'm never going to get out of here or any other kind of way.
So that was, he was another factor in surviving that.
And lastly, there was another prisoner there named Frank Sterling who was also innocent.
We used to get together once every six weeks in the yard and have the conversation would
be about morale and continuing to go, go forward.
And the other part we would, would be like a brainstorm session about what was the next
tactic to do for us to try to overturn the conviction and regain our freedom.
You know, and I believe that Frank's innocence, because it was a similar false confession
case and an alternative suspect confessed to four different people.
And ultimately he was exonerated two years at my DNA couple of years after I am.
Wow.
So I said that to say like, I wasn't just some naive kid in prison believing that someone
else was innocent.
I mean, he actually was.
That's insane.
Did you have to join any gangs in prison to keep yourself safe?
Cause I know a lot of people have to do that.
Yeah.
People that don't join gangs typically have to go through a lot of adversity.
Right.
I think that that's more of a Southern thing than it is, um, than, than it is more up north.
But like, yeah, like maybe more like, you know, in like Alabama, maybe in Mississippi
or maybe like in Texas, not so much like that.
It's not, I didn't find it to be like that in, in New York.
Okay.
So like there, there wasn't any segregation as far as like, like, uh, like neo-Nazis and
then like the black people in the Mexicans, they would all have their own kind of like,
well, there were gangs in a prison.
I mean, I wouldn't say it was racially segregated.
It was not, but having, so it's not like what you're saying.
But at the same time, uh, you know, there were, there were definitely gangs.
I mean, you know, one of the, there was like the Bloods, which were made up of almost the
blacks and then there was the Crips also.
And then there were, you know, there was Spanish gangs also.
There was the Latin Kings, there was the Dominicans, there was La Familia, and yeah, you did have
like, you know, some of the whites that were there, the supremacists that were, that were
there.
So did they approach you and try to get you, try to get you to join them or?
No, they didn't, that didn't happen to me.
You know, while I was in, while I was in prison, I didn't, no, I didn't, I didn't
experience, I didn't experience that, you know, you know, but look, throughout the
years, there were definitely times when I got beat up for sure.
And, and, you know, in my mid twenties, I mean, here and there, I'd come up with the
win here and there, but for the most part, look, I'm this white dude from the suburbs
that had three or four fights in my life.
I mean, what do you think I'm going to, who do you think you think I'm going to defeat
people that are running from the street that are fully formed, adults that are, many of
them are, you know, that, that wasn't, I mean, did you focus on transforming yourself
into like more of like a, like a tough guy?
No, I, I, no, I didn't do that.
I didn't go that route, but what, so there were some old timers that kind of put me
under their wing and, you know, and so I picked up on different survival tactics.
So like I would mind my business, you know, I would never, you know, I wouldn't open
the doors like, you know, barring or taking, asking anybody for anything.
I never got involved in a conversation about what was going to be watched on the
television or when I was in my cell, like I wouldn't like talk out outside of the
gate, you know, which, yeah.
Right.
So I mean, so those things and, you know, I just, I do certain things you can do to
try to minimize things.
I wouldn't say that everything is like totally in your hands.
It never is, but if you do certain things and you, if you avoid certain things, then
you can minimize.
You mentioned something about something in a weight room or dumbbells were dropped on
you or something.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So, all right.
So in 1997, I was in a Shuangong correctional facility, which is like considered to be like
a maxi max type of thing, like one of the more secure prisons.
Recall that it had been, you know, that this vigilante mentality was people
convicted of sex offenses.
So Shuangong, there was very, there wasn't a lot, it was a maxi max.
So it was dangerous in terms of the collection of prisoners.
But at the same time, there was very little violence or anything that was happening there.
And it was facility that was relatively close to the city as compared to many of the
other facilities that were further up north.
And so by there being very little that was happening, it actually made it more dangerous
because the normal respect that would go on in other prisons didn't really go on there.
So everyone was a smaller prison.
Everyone was kind of like on top of each other, like into each other's business.
There wasn't a lot that was going on.
So some of the prisoners went to the law library and they looked up my case because
they wanted to know what I was in prison for.
And they, you know, they saw in the court opinions, they always give like a factual
background of the case.
And so they saw I was there for a sex offense and they made copies of the case and they,
you know, passing it out to people and stapling it up on the bulletin board.
So everybody got like hostile for the most part.
If most people were hostile, the ones that were not, you know, they really didn't want
to get involved into the thing.
Look, man, I don't agree with what people are saying, but look, I'm trying to go home
and I don't got time to get involved in this other problems regarding you.
So, you know, people didn't want to be around me.
So it was getting more and more hostile there.
And it got to the point that, you know, there were four people out of everyone that really
distinguished themselves.
And it got to the point like, I'll say I was letting things go.
I was breaking prison survival rules.
I was letting things go that I really shouldn't have been letting go.
Like we're saying shooting in directs and direct direct statements at me.
And I was letting things go because being passive.
Yeah, I was being passive.
What I should not have been right.
And part of that was because they were all much bigger than me.
But then also, you know, this was the one time that I had a paid attorney.
People came in the picture that that my mother didn't know previously.
Everybody put in a manageable amount of money.
So I had a private attorney.
And my point is that I thought that was going to make a difference in the court.
So I'm thinking, I can't fight these people with my hands.
I'm going to have to use a weapon or something.
But then it will be just my luck that I would, you know, that I would be found
that I would that I would beat the case that I'm wrongfully imprisoned for.
But I will not be able to go home because I caught another case while in prison.
So that all was part of letting things go, being more passive.
And finally, it got to the point that, you know, it seemed clear to me
that these guys were going to come and try to stab me.
That that just seemed like that was imminent.
And so, you know, rather than rather than waiting for that, you know,
I took the fight to them.
So I snuck a 10 pound weight paid out from the small yard.
I put it in this net bag that we were supposed to use for laundry.
And and I swung it at this guy.
But the issue is that, like, I didn't I didn't want to like kill anybody.
I didn't want to cause some kind of permanent injury.
So I didn't swing the thing all that hard.
I took a lot off of it more than what I should.
So I hit him.
He went flying, but it didn't really do that much.
You understand?
And then from there, they formed like a circle around us and we'll fight in.
And he's like the fan.
Are you like multiple people?
You were with you weren't alone.
Well, no, I'm no, I'm saying this happened in the in the in the day room area
where there's like a television and chairs to sit down at.
Oh, so you just ran up on him when he walked by me and I swung the damn thing.
But in swinging, I didn't I took too much off of it because I had a concern for him.
But also for me, I don't want to kill him.
I want to catch a case.
So right. So so it hits him.
It doesn't do all that much.
So they people people like form a circle around us.
And he's like the fan favorite and we're fighting with our hands.
But like, you know, he's overpowering me, right?
And so this weight plate of they start cheering for him.
Like, you know, use the weight plate, use the weight plate, right?
So this weight plate is at the foot up.
So there was there was there were a couple of other people that, you know,
had told me that, you know, that I had been hanging out with.
And they said, look, you know, you got to stop letting all this stuff go.
You know, we can't step up for you.
You got to do the first thing and we'll come right in behind you, you know?
And so this way, as I'm getting my rear end kick, well, where the hell's the help at?
Right? You said you were going to, you know, but the but the but the weight plate
is at the foot of this guy.
So he runs over to try to get it.
I didn't try to stop him.
I figured, well, they're not going to let him pick the weight plate up, right?
Except they did.
And so he starts swinging that thing at me and I'm blocking a lot of it,
but I'm not perfect.
And so I got hit multiple, multiple times on the on the side of my head with weight
plate. I still have scars.
I don't know if you can see, I still have scars from here and here on my on my
hand. Jesus.
You know, so.
So what? How big was it?
Do you know how much weight was it?
It was a 10. It was a 10 pound.
It was a 10 pound.
It was a 10 pound weight plate.
Fuck.
We get sent to the outside hospital and everything.
And, you know, the outside hospital says that I'm I'm supposed to be put
in the prison hospital and I go back.
Not not in the SHU, you know, just for observation.
But instead, they put me in the SHU, you know, anyway.
So this was one of my lowest points.
Yeah. No matter what happens, if you're involved in a fight, whether you win or
get your ass kicked, you're going to the shoe.
Yeah, right. Yeah.
Depending on where it happens at.
Yes. Yeah.
Definitely.
And what I was saying, this was my lowest point in this.
Imagine this.
So I'm in the shoe.
I'm here because I'm pro I preemptively defended myself against people that
were going to come to stab me because as far as they're concerned, I'm a
rapist. And while I'm there, I get the decision from the federal court saying
that I've lost because the court clerk gave my lawyer the wrong
information on the filing procedure.
So my petition arrived four days late.
Wow.
That's dark.
It's a dark day.
That really, really was, you know, and I want to just pick a second here.
And this is kind of the reasons why I kind of like this podcast a lot,
because we're not trying to get everything into a 20 minute, a half
hour, even hour long segment.
We have go longer than that and want to just take a second here
to describe my experience in the shoe.
Yes.
OK, so the light is on all the time.
OK, and there's no clock.
You can't see the clock.
So and you can't see the outside.
So I never have.
I never had I never have any idea of what time of the day it was
what with the one the one clue is if there's breakfast items on the
tray and the food tray, then I would know it's a rough as breakfast
time is around seven seven thirty.
But other than that, no, no clock.
The lights on all the time.
There's a lot of there's a lot of noise.
There's very little property you have in your cell.
All your cosmetics and hygienic items, those are all put in a locker
with your name on it, locked up.
And when you go to take a shower, then you can have access to it.
You can have the clothes that you have on one change of clothes.
And that's it.
There's no privacy at all.
It's just just a big gate.
But at the same time, you can't see anybody because there's all these cells
like this is my cell here.
All these cells go down.
You can't see anybody either.
So it is.
Is there anybody in there with you by yourself and by myself?
OK, they send a mental health worker around periodically to check on everybody.
But the mental health professional, he's talking to you outside of your cell.
So there's no confidentiality.
Everybody can everybody can hear anything.
You know, they do send books around and I'm reading it.
But after like three, four days, you know, the book, the books are
renovated is another week to go.
You try tried sleeping some of the time away, but then you kind of get slept out.
You can't sleep anymore.
You know, then you have another like two, maybe three days left.
So that was very difficult.
You can't you're not allowed to go to the commissary and purchase food items.
You can't eat anything that's there that like the items you've purchased.
You're just dependent upon the food from the state.
So the guard, the correction officers are the ones who are coming around
and and putting the food on your tray.
And so if there were a couple of times where I was asleep and I got up
while they were feeding the prisoner on the cell next to me, they had just
passed by myself and, you know, and they didn't like wake me up or anything.
They refused to give me anything to eat.
They told me to be awake next time.
Wow. Yeah.
So there was that part of it.
Anywhere, anytime you go anywhere in the shoe, you have to first put
your you have to handcuff you first, you know, and I remember their
reckoning, they brought you would bring me to recreation with the handcuffs on.
They bring me outside and it's you can't see the you can't see the the the night
and you're just there by yourself with like a pull up part in it.
And I really just like being in handcuffs a lot.
A pull up bar.
Yeah.
Were you working out?
Well, it was I did.
I did work out some, but there was just a pull up bar in the in the area.
But I'm just trying to say that it wasn't really anything to do.
Is what I'm saying.
So in time, I just decided, you know, when they would ask me, you go
into recreation, I would just say no, because it wasn't worth the aggravate.
The recreation they were going to give me was not worth the aggravation of
being put in the handcuffs is what I'm getting at.
So, you know, and so within a short amount of time, I.
Just sort of refusing to go to recreation.
They say, are you going to recreation?
And I would say no.
How much time do you spend in the shoe all together?
All together, 28 days, 28 days.
Jesus. So at what point did you start to see a light at the end of the tunnel?
Yeah, like was there.
I know you talk about the Innocence Project.
Yes, they wouldn't work with you in the beginning.
Yes, they wouldn't work with me at the beginning.
So they they're an organization in Manhattan that works to free
wrongfully convicted prisoners across the country in cases where DNA
testing can show innocence and in which no prior testing had been conducted.
So the problem is that in my case, the DNA already had been the testing had been done.
So they their model would be they take cases, do the testing
and then present the evidence into court introduced as newly discovered evidence.
Right. That was not an option for me because the jury already knew that.
So that was it wouldn't it wouldn't have been anything new.
So they did would not work with me.
They took about a year to decide that they never before saw a case
where the DNA excluded somebody and yet there was a conviction.
So my appeals are all over after about 11 years.
We're in 2001 now.
And the only way back into your court once your appeals are over
when your appeals are over, they don't they don't give you an attorney any longer either.
And so the only way back into court at that point is if you can find
there's either a change in law or if you can find some previously
unknown evidence of innocence.
So I didn't have any money to hire an investigator or an attorney.
So hence the need to embark on this letter writing campaign.
So I wrote letters for four years looking for help,
rarely getting any answers other than the occasional no.
Eventually one of the letters that I wrote in to a woman who had wrote
her memoirs from when she was a prison warden, Tecla Miller.
She wrote a book called The Warden Warpink and that was one book.
So at the end I was not I wrote everyone I could think of it.
At one point I was just going to the general library to look for ideas
on who to who to write the next letter for.
And there was a book called Chicken Soup for the Prisoner's Soul,
which I saw had had contact info on the back of the book for like half of the author.
So hence I borrowed it and one of the chapters of many different books,
including Warden Warpink.
So I wrote her and carried the publishing company.
Somebody from the publishing company sent the letter instead to Claudia Whitman,
who's an investigator, and she wrote me right away.
And she had never she was convinced of my innocence based on the DNA.
So she we brainstormed together.
She tried to get people to take my case.
And one of her ideas was the winning one.
She said, why don't you write the innocence project again?
And I wouldn't have thought to write them because I got that response from them before.
But she said, look, DNA texting has has evolutionized.
They have the DNA database now.
So the prior denial is irrelevant.
So just write them again.
So I wouldn't have thought to write them again, but it was kind of out of idea.
So I wrote them and she also lobbied them from outside the organization.
She got other people to other respected legal professionals
also to write them letters.
And then I got lucky that one of the intake workers, Maggie Taylor,
was not an attorney when the Innocence Project declined to take my case.
Again, she represented it two more times.
Wow.
The third time is what she pushed it across some.
She suggested that, you know, they use the DNA data that event, which is a idea I gave her.
So once they agree to take my case, that's when I started getting some light across the tunnel.
My darkest time was after I got turned down for parole, because remember,
I lost all the appeals.
I wrote letters for four years.
I didn't get any responses.
And I went to the parole board and then I got turned down.
So that that that was that that extra year was it was the darkest time period.
I would say the first six months of that.
Then when I was in communication with the Innocence Project,
when they finally agreed to take the case, that's when I started having
that's when I started having some some hope.
So what changed once they finally agreed to take the case?
And you mentioned there the whole the whole DNA.
The DNA data bank had been created.
That's what changed.
So now there was something they could do with the DNA to constitute something new.
And had so the man who actually committed this crime, who had raped and murdered that girl.
Yes.
Had he been arrested at this point, or was he still free?
He had been arrested.
So Stephen Cunningham had was was killed, killed a second victim,
three and a half years later after killing Angel Correa, the victim in my case.
So he had strangled to death his girlfriend's sister.
So at that time, VCRs were still kind of like expensive.
And he was trying to steal her VCR.
She walked in on him and she would not agree to let him take
the VCR to sell it to buy money for drugs.
And so he strangled her.
And so he was in prison for doing that.
So for about so for there was a time period of about 12 and a half years
when we were both in the prison system at the same time, never in the same prison,
but in the prison, overall prison system.
Do you think that when during your whole trial process, he was aware of it?
Yeah, I really do, because it was, you know, it was every time I went to court,
it was a big major, it was a major media moment.
Really? It was.
And virtually all the articles were written from a guilt presumptive oriented perspective.
You know, people were talking about the fact that I knew so.
And I've met since I've been out, I've met somebody that used to get high with him.
No way. Yeah.
And they said that sometimes that they talked about the murder and the trial in the case.
So I knew that he knew about it, even though he says he didn't.
Is he still alive?
He is. He is still alive.
Have you ever talked to him?
I have. No, I have not.
I have not talked to him.
Why would you want to?
I mean, I don't know. I can't even imagine.
Right. Well, yeah.
I mean, the closest I came was I was I was a few feet away from him
during the deposition and the lawsuit.
But I want to go back to DNA and I'll come back to him.
Yeah, yeah. Sorry, we got up.
Sure.
So they took the crime scene DNA evidence.
So I have the answers.
Project representatives.
That was the first thing.
The second thing that Jeanine Pirro had left off, who had blocked all the testing,
she left office and her successor was willing to let me get the testing.
So that was the second key.
The third thing is we got lucky that his DNA was in the data bank.
So they took the DNA, put it in the DNA data bank
and it met and matched him because his DNA was there
because he killed second victim and confronted with that.
He admitted he was the person who committed who committed the crime.
So on September 22nd, 2006, the conviction was overturned and I was,
you know, I was released.
I went back to court November 2nd, 2006, at which point all the charges
were dismissed against me on actual innocence grounds.
And Stephen Cunningham was subsequently arrested and arrested
and convicted of the crime.
Wasn't he already in prison, though?
He was already in prison, but they still charged him with the murder that he did.
So he went back to court.
Yeah, he went back to court.
Yeah, he was still in prison, but he went back to court.
Yes. And he got, yeah, and he was sentenced to additional 20 years.
What was that like for you when you first, when they when they read,
when they found the DNA and it matched him and you started going, OK,
this this is going to be a process of being released back into the free world.
Sure. So I found out that I was going home the day before I went home.
So my. Wow. Yeah.
So my attorney came to see me.
So they opened my cell.
I'll take a second or two, because, again, this is a longer podcast.
So they general rule of thumb with the guards, open your cell.
You're supposed to go down and, you know, see why they opened your cell.
See what's what's going on, right?
So they opened my cell and I stick my head out and look down there
and the guard just yells, visit.
And I'm like, well, it doesn't make sense.
Who else come to see me?
So I went down there and had him double check and call the visiting room,
confirm, yeah, I have a visit.
So then I run back to my cell and get a shirt.
They had like a routine.
Most prisoners do.
We have like a like a visit shirt, like a shirt.
We keep really nice just for that, because that's the closest we're going
to come to making a public appearance.
Yeah, I want to make a good impression.
Right. Exactly.
So I'm hurrying up.
The visiting room is quite a distance from my cell because I don't
I don't want to get caught in the count.
If I don't get into the visiting room by like five to 11, I'm going to be stuck.
They're going to do the count and I'm not going to be able to get in the
visiting room for another two hours.
So I'm hurrying up.
So as I'm hurrying up and buttoning my shirt as I'm her and I'm thinking to
myself, well, who the hell came to see me?
So when I get in there, there's this woman and she's, she's waving to me
like this and I don't recognize her.
And but I just, I wave back and I think, well, you know, maybe she's
mistaking me for somebody else or maybe she knows me from the visiting room.
Like, you know, in Elmira.
So I asked the guard, uh, who, who, who came to see me?
And the guard looks at me like I'm nuts.
And, uh, you know, and, and she says that person and she says, well,
don't you know who came to see you?
And, and, you know, and I just, I lied to her and just said, well, yeah,
of course, of course.
Sure, I know that he wanted to cancel the visit, you know.
So I walked over to this woman and she says to me, you know, she identifies
yourself as Nina Morrison, who's, um, you know, my, my attorney at the
Innocence Project.
And she says, you know, the, the, um, the, uh, items have been tested.
And so like my antennas are already up for anything out of the ordinary.
Cause I've already had experiences with out of the ordinary and it, with
disastrous results, like when, when the, when the wrong information was
given to my attorney and every, you remember the technicality we covered.
So I'm on the lookout for anything amiss is what I'm getting at.
And when she said the items were tested, you know, that was something that
kind of set off those alarms.
And I said to her, what do you, what do you, what do you mean?
The items have been tested.
They're not, they're not supposed to have been tested for another month.
And she said, well, the district attorney, um, pulled some strings and got
the lab to expedite the testing a little bit faster.
And, uh, you know, the results match the actual perpetrator.
You're going home tomorrow.
