Cheers.
Cheers.
Dude, I was looking back on our episode list of podcasts and the last one we did is technically
now the first podcast.
It's technically podcast number one because I deleted like 35 episodes that we did with
Ben.
So by default you're number one.
So now by default you're number one.
Sick.
How long ago was that?
That had to have been like...
That was like three...
Three years ago?
Two and a half years ago.
Gotta be.
Sheesh.
Two and a half years ago in the other room.
So what have you been up to, bro?
What's been going on?
Just filming.
Trying to film, stay on top of social media, watching it change and get super saturated.
Dog shit.
It's dog shit.
You're not a tiktoker yet.
I can't do it.
I just won't do it.
No.
No.
It's tough.
It's like take everything excellent you've ever made and like just shove it down people's
throats in the most consumable, quick way possible.
It seems like it's like taking the art away from everything almost.
Yeah.
Even when I see like something that's incredibly well shot, it's like I'm having a seizure
because it's like...
Like there's so much going on.
I don't know.
Tiktok has to captivate attention spans of like...
You get lost in there for sure.
I was watching a video earlier today, the one that we did at that little pump concert
where we dressed you up like little pump.
Yeah, a little video.
That was such a sick video.
It worked out.
We did really good.
Let's see.
The version of it that I posted on Concrete, the top comment is guys, or it was like, all
caps, do you guys know this is Tifu's biological brother?
Dude, do we know?
The internet is so weird now.
Yeah, dude, like I got a bunch of comments on America's Got Talent, like that's Tifu's
brother.
I'm like...
Oh my gosh.
I don't know.
That'll haunt you forever.
I'm the trampoline guy, I'm Tifu's brother, you know.
It's weird, like that's one of the craziest things about like meeting people is like I
like asking them what video they saw or like what they like that I've done if somebody
like comes up and says they like our stuff, just the wide range of shit that I've heard
is crazy.
I'm proud of a lot of stuff and then somebody will be like, yeah, the time that you let
your friend on fire and then hit him in the face with a water balloon and I'm like, holy
shit, that's what you remember.
The backyard at your dad's house is just kind of like a cesspool of just wild, crazy shit
always.
I don't think that'll ever stop, hopefully we'll keep doing stuff there forever.
It had to have been so crazy too because there was that one time, that one point like three
years ago when like you had the whole trampoline video series just going off and that was like
the most popular thing on the internet and then out of nowhere, your brother's social
media just started just like creeping up and creeping up and just like skyrocketing out
of nowhere.
Insane.
Yeah, that trampoline versus was cool because the one thing that I'll always take out of
that is that we got number one most subscribed channel for the day, two days ago.
Really?
Yeah, above PewDiePie, above every creator on the platform for two days.
That was kind of like, even that wasn't even that long ago and it was just like, it seems
like it was.
And now people are ripping it off.
Are they?
There's another channel that does the exact same thing that I did like three or four years
ago on his channel and he's getting more views than I did when I did it.
And it's just dedicated to the trampoline shit.
I mean, he didn't credit me in anything so I just took the idea and made it his own.
There was a couple channels that actually their channel was made off of the trampoline
versus series.
Really?
Yeah, that's pretty crazy.
Well, limitation is the highest form of flattery, right?
Yeah.
What, well, what I was going to say was like that time when we were doing that, it seems
like YouTube was a completely different place, like a completely different website back then,
you know?
It was and it is.
Yeah, it's insane.
Especially with like all the, like now all it is is just, I feel like it's just people,
it's just like, all it can be is a certain type of just like bullshit content and so
much of it is curated and censored.
Yeah, I used to, I mean, I used to use YouTube almost every day from 2006 until like, you
know, currently, you know?
Before I uploaded anything on YouTube, I was watching stuff on YouTube a lot, you know?
And yeah, it was like, you could just type in whatever you want and like, it would always
feed you something cool.
It seemed like you guys use eBombs World when you're in hell.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, that was the shit.
I was addicted to that.
Oh yeah.
I was like 13 or like 12.
I don't even know how young I was.
The prank call voices, the sound boards.
Yeah, it's everything.
Oh yeah, all the sound boards.
Oh man.
That was a wild time.
That was a good site.
Is it still around?
Yeah, oh yeah.
Is it?
Yeah, still check up on it.
Oh yeah.
I haven't searched that site for like 15 years.
Really?
I still check up on it every now and then.
Remember World Star Hip Hop?
World Star was just always dog shit, though.
I remember when, though, that was like a thing that you wanted.
You would want your video to get picked up by World Star.
I mean, you still do.
People, a lot of people still use it.
It's just, I don't know, they just, I can't follow pages that post more than five things
a day.
Or else it's just like, it just seems ridiculous.
I don't even know how anything works anymore.
Like, I miss when YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all used to be like chronological,
you know?
Oh yeah.
Especially Instagram.
It's not like anymore.
No, it's not.
I heard the Instagram would not do it.
No, no, I'll still be scrolling through and I'll get a post from like four days ago.
Next to a post that was like a couple hours ago.
How often are you posting?
I try a couple of times a week, no matter what, you know, no matter what.
I try to, I've been trying to post on Instagram every day.
Everybody's making money on short form content right now, like getting budgets for their
reels or getting paid.
I don't, I just, it's so hard.
I mean, I, I try to do it because I see everyone else doing it and I acknowledge that, like,
if you're not, if you get on your feed on Instagram, you're going to see 15 videos and
maybe like two pictures, you know, it's all reels.
It's just pushing reels to everyone right now.
So when I see that, I'm like, all right, I'll post some reels, but the real bummer is my
hard drive with like 36 terabytes of footage that has like a good couple of years of really
good content on it, just stopped working.
So right when I was about to just crank out a bunch of, a bunch of reels that happened
and problem with reels is you have to, anything that's filmed like high quality.
That's not, you know, that's horizontal, you know, and not vertical.
It's going to look like dog shit on a reel.
Like everything that I've filmed for the last 13 years, I have to crop in.
That's a super like fish eye.
Yeah.
It just looks terrible.
So you either have to create new content for reels or you have to make your old content
look kind of shitty.
And it's just like, I'm just hoping that this is just a phase and that people get really
bored of short form content very quickly.
I've been trying to upload on YouTube a bunch and it's been going well.
So yeah, it's like everybody's scrambling just to adapt to whatever like the new hot
thing is.
Like if it's Instagram reels or if it's TikToks or you got to be on TikTok, oh, you got to
do YouTube shorts.
Like everyone's always, everyone's always telling me wherever I go, like what I have
to be doing.
Yeah.
The people that have no talent are becoming super famous too.
Super famous.
And I think that that's a problem.
Really?
Yeah.
Like, I mean, not no talent.
You know, there's some talent.
Look at the D'Amelio's.
Like honestly, like it was that the two TikTok sisters, you know, the D'Amelio's are Charlie
and Dixie D'Amelio.
They was like, awesome.
That's awesome.
Do you know them?
700 million followers on everything, you know, they're massive and I don't do the dance.
They dance.
They dance.
They definitely dance.
Oh, I know who they are.
They got that.
They got offered their own reality show too.
Right.
Yeah.
Followers, 130 million.
Jesus.
Yeah, it's insane.
I hosted a panel for them at Playlist Live and I was the moderator of a panel before
they really blew up.
I don't know.
It's just like, I see the most famous people on platforms like TikTok and I'm like, this
is not my place.
Like, I do not belong here.
I make better content than this.
If these are the top people on the platform, I don't want to be here.
What about the island boys?
What about them?
They got fucking so absurdly famous.
I don't know that they did though.
I feel like a lot of people were really just making fun of them.
Yeah.
Like if they show up in public, they get booed everywhere they go.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah, do you see them show up for that?
I'm not envious of people like that at all.
But they could slowly turn the tanker because then they over a long period of time, they
could slowly turn the ship to where people are kind of laughing with them in the couple
years versus laughing at them.
They're just so unlikeable.
They are.
You watch them on podcasts.
And they're so dumb too.
They should get so offended.
Yeah, they just don't have like the depth or like the, I don't know, just the life
experience to have like an understanding of just any grasp on anything.
I don't know.
They just, they got, you see them on the Jake Paul podcast or the Logan Paul podcast.
They need to try to fight one of the guys.
He just got, they just got super.
You think you know I'm thugging, right?
Yeah, I just, I can't get on board with people like that.
I just don't, you know, I don't hang out with people like that.
I can't endorse people like that.
You know, I wish everyone the best.
I think that that's very important part of life, especially the people that like treat
you the worst, you know, wish everyone well, but like I don't have to condone that or endorse
that.
No.
Yeah, they're making, making Florida look bad.
Do you ever like, do you ever like stress out about like what kind of content you want
to make or like what types of videos you want to make next?
Or do you just kind of just do whatever you want and just like film it and if it turns
out good, you just decide to post it.
It's like yes and no, you know, I always want to make really good content, but I don't stress
it because I feel like we've made so much content over the years and like we've consistently
in my opinion uploaded really good content over the course of like eight years, you know?
Like even if we take a long break from doing something, like, you know, and like the most
comments that I got about the Jigsaw channel being dead was like, no, when it was like
right before we did Hollywood and like, there's all these people like, oh, you guys are washed
up, you know, like blah, blah, blah, this and that.
And like people are going to say everything, you know, and it's hard to not focus on the
bad comments, but once you like take a break from uploading, like there's going to be people
that are going to talk a lot of shit and then we like do the Hollywood stunt and prank and
pull it off.
And it's like on every new station and like getting millions of views across all these
different platforms.
And it's just like, for people that aren't familiar with the Hollywood, give us like a
quick rundown on what that was about.
Oh, we pull it up Austin.
We gave the Hollywood sign a boob job.
Hell yeah.
That's what I'll say.
Everyone in the LA's got a boob job.
We figured we just, you know, help the town out a little bit and turn it into Hollywood.
So they just changed it recently for a Ram's house.
It looks like shit.
I was going to say, I saw that.
And I thought of you.
I was like, Jack did this way bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We did better in like 20 minutes.
Bad.
What happened?
They did what?
They changed it to let's go Ram's.
It says Ram's house.
Ram's house.
But it was like barely even legible.
Yeah.
This is the raw footage.
And you got a, did you get arrested during this?
Yeah.
I still have community service because of this.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's my buddy Ricky.
He was actually, uh, he wasn't even supposed to help with the Hollywood prank.
He was just coming out there to do a big foot stunt with me.
Oh, this is a Super Bowl.
Oh shit.
Straight to the Super Bowl.
Random Super Bowl clip.
I have no idea.
What?
It's a mashup.
Oh my God.
Somebody else's page that ripped your shit.
Oh no.
This is your page.
Is it?
Oh yeah.
You just decided to throw in some.
I don't remember.
Maybe.
It was just, oh, that was just the intro.
I was just talking about what was going on in the future probably.
This is a, yeah.
This is like the raw footage of the Hollywood sign, but yeah, I went to jail for this.
What did they charge you with?
Just trespassing.
Just trespassing.
No vandalism.
Huh?
No vandalism.
No, no, because we didn't actually do anything to the sign.
It was just placed there.
We didn't like paint on it or anything.
True.
Yeah.
We got that thing up there and a baby stroller.
Like I had to push a baby stroller up a mountain with that giant tarp the size of a body that
weighed like a hundred pounds and that was the only way because we actually tried this
twice.
This was the third attempt.
We tried it twice in the middle of the night and they got, and like almost got caught.
We were trying to sneak up the mountain and they were shining lights at us and they like
pulled, brought in a helicopter.
We all like scattered like cockroaches.
She had to do it during the day.
Yeah.
So we're like, all right.
How we had to rethink it.
We're like, all right.
We'll do it during the day.
We'll just start from the top instead of the bottom and just rush it and try to do it quickly.
Wow.
Yeah.
But on that topic, like I don't worry about making content because I feel like we've made
so much content that there's always going to be people that are going to check back because
we're always like the best is yet to come, you know, we're always going to keep making
videos.
I feel like there's just always going to be people that are going to want to check back
on what we're doing, whether it's a week from now, a month from now, a year from now.
Like I think that we've established a pretty core audience in everything that we've done.
So, you know, I always want to keep content outflow out, but I also have been really wanting
to focus on like bigger projects, like maybe doing a standup routine or like buying land
and opening Megalodon Ranch and allowing people to come hunt for shark's teeth with us and
you know, maybe make some documentaries.
I have a couple of crazy ideas for documentaries.
Just like, really?
Yeah.
Like documentaries that you would release on your YouTube page?
No, I'd want to, um, I'd want to like shop them on the platforms, like, you know, maybe
get something on Netflix or Hulu, whatever, anybody who's interested in this, yeah.
Netflix is so crazy, dude.
There's like, there's so many fucking shows on Netflix.
It's almost impossible.
Like how could they, there's so many fucking like long form series on Netflix that come
out every single day.
It's hard to keep up with all of them.
They want content though, you know, and they're a good place to release content and they're
actually paying pretty well.
Like if you're an influencer that has like a really good docuseries or documentary, something
like that, they'll actually pay you good money to release it on their platform because you're
going to be bringing your fan base to their platform.
Do you know of anybody who's transferred, transitioned from YouTube to Netflix as far
as like career wise or content wise?
Sam Macaroni.
He's the guy that directed guest house, that movie that I was in.
He made YouTube videos for a really long time and now he's full-time director.
That's something I've always been interested in too, is just like getting into like shooting
some real content.
While everybody's out there making 15 second take talks, I want to like learn the ropes
of the film industry and maybe like shoot some really sick documentaries, like deckhands.
That shit was awesome.
That was one of my favorite shows ever and like that's some shit that easily could go
on Netflix that people would enjoy.
I've been going to Mexico for 10 years straight, even talking about Turner, I feel like that's
a crazy documentary too.
I don't think anyone on the platform, on YouTube in history has ever gone from 100,000 subscribers
to 10 million as quickly as Turner did.
I don't think it's ever happened.
No dude.
It can't.
That was crazy.
He went so nuclear.
So fast.
Such a short amount of time.
It's been a world famous like in one year from being a kid that was playing video games
like in the back room of the house, you know, it's just...
I know.
He didn't even make...
No.
He didn't care about anything.
The crazy thing I always tell people about him is just like, a lot of people just try
to chase all the trends, you know?
He did the opposite of that.
He did the opposite of that.
He stayed in his room and he kept playing video games and then one video game came about
that just happened to be the kerosene to the fucking match.
But you just cannot deny his fucking skill too.
He's so nuts.
He just won an Apex Legends...
I saw that.
It was yesterday.
It was a huge tournament.
He doesn't play Apex Legends very often and he certainly doesn't practice it at a pro
level, you know?
And he's a...
He didn't like the tournament.
There's a clip that just went viral of, you know, they're doing like the interview of
the finals and they're like asking him a question and he just tornadoed a beer on
the stream, like on the Twitch rivals, like live stream.
That's so sick.
Yeah.
And he's like talking shit too.
Like, I don't understand how you cannot play the game like on a professional level and
not...
He's just too good.
On his in-game IQ.
Yeah.
He just outsmarts everyone.
It doesn't matter how mechanical you are.
Yeah.
He's just smarter.
Yeah.
He'll just do some shit.
He's one step ahead of you.
I think he's more like 40 or 50 or 60 steps ahead.
Have you ever seen the pobs of like his fingers when he's playing?
Yeah.
Do you remember right before he blew up, like right before...
I made that little video.
Yeah, the little documentary.
Like a 10-minute documentary.
Yeah, it got millions of views.
Now it has like 5 million views.
Yeah.
But that was like right...
That was like the day I uploaded that was like the day he officially joined FaZe.
Yeah.
And I remember he's like, oh, I got to change the intro.
I can't just say Tee-Foo.
I got to say FaZe Tee-Foo.
It was like...
It was kind of weird.
But then right after that, I mean, we are filming...
I remember filming him on his keyboard and his mouse and he had his keyboard instead of normal.
He had a vertical.
Yeah.
He had his keyboard turned like that.
And he's like this.
Yeah.
So I don't know what that was.
Like he's just more room for the mouse or what?
It's just better for his arm to rest.
It's just more natural than like being over here, I suppose.
I don't know.
He was a real trailblazer for gamers as a whole.
He was trying shit that nobody's ever tried before.
Like, you know how you can bind your keys?
You know, like when you play a game, like W, E, S, D, whatever, like those are the keys
that run forward and side to side and back and forth.
He would completely start from scratch and just like go through all these steps in his
head to try to figure out what binds would just be the most efficient possible.
And it's not like it's something that you...
It's like playing styles.
You know, it's like whatever you do the most, you need to be the easiest to access, but
then you need to like balance everything out as well.
I couldn't possibly go that into depth about it, but that alone, like that takes a lot
to set up all your keys and all your guns and all your commands like from scratch.
He's like, yeah, I just changed my binds.
It's going to take me like three to four weeks to get used to him.
And like, he'll just train and like reset his brain to understand his keyboard differently
and just fucking destroy everyone.
You know?
Insane.
The amount of focus that goes into that.
It's also like intuitive too.
Like he just does it.
He doesn't even have to think about it.
Right.
But he like, he does it so much and he like, he focuses so for such a long period of time
on that shit.
It's like, it's just, I admire just that level of focus on one thing.
You know?
I mean, he's, I can, will never be able to wrap my head around the fact that he is, he
won more tournaments than anyone has ever won by far by like a long shot in Fortnite.
And Fortnite is the most popular game that's ever been created in mankind.
There's never been anything more popular than that.
And to be the best at the most popular game that's ever been made, like that's shit.
It still will never make sense to me.
Yeah.
Didn't Ninja move to Florida?
Is that true?
Probably.
I heard that he did.
Yeah.
I think so.
Yeah.
Cause Jessica posted that she was in Florida too.
Everybody loves Florida.
Everyone's moving to Florida.
Everyone's moving to Florida.
Yeah.
Nick Merks already lived here.
I think Tim the Tatman lives, like moved here.
I wouldn't surprise me if Ninja did too, but you know, Turner reps Florida pretty hard.
So I feel like Tyler's probably been kind of quiet about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He also, you know, he got abused.
Like you don't want to, oh man, he went through some shit too.
Ninja, like he was top dog and Turner like completely dethroned him like to where it
wasn't even.
Have you guys seen the KSI Tfue vs Ninja video?
No.
Oh my God.
It's one of the funniest things we've ever seen.
Yeah.
You should throw that on real quick.
KSI Ninja vs Tfue.
Do you guys know KSI?
Yeah.
I know.
He's one of the biggest YouTubers on the planet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He did a little commentary.
It needs volume though.
Oh, I think I have seen this a long time ago.
And how many views does this have?
Seven million.
Yeah.
Then Turner reacted to it and they got another like, yeah, 14 million on Turner's channel.
Oh my God.
And this is literally a video of like KSI kind of just shitting on Ninja without having
to because Turner like, oh no, you got to watch at least the first minute to do this.
Dude snapping.
You don't hear much about Fortnite these days.
It's because nobody plays it.
No.
What does everybody play now?
I have no idea.
I don't play anything.
No.
Do you think there's going to be like a next big Fortnite?
Yeah.
100%.
Definitely.
It's got to be something.
Yeah.
It's going to be something that's VR based I bet though.
VR.
Yeah.
It's going to be a huge like a VR game that like everyone's addicted to.
I remember this clip right here.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
He's, he's fucking spamming him with the rocket launcher.
This is the first time they ever matched up.
Oh yeah, he gets that.
He gets up.
This fucking game dude.
Yeah.
That's TV.
He killed me.
No.
What's really funny is like, there's actually a clip in here where Turner skip forward a
couple of minutes.
That's when Turner's dressed as a chicken.
Yeah.
Right here.
Yeah.
Let's see what Ninja is doing.
Yeah.
Check this out.
This shit is hilarious.
Is that an hacker?
He doesn't even, he doesn't even react.
Oh yeah.
He took out his whole squad.
Yeah.
He killed the watchers though.
So yeah, Turner took out two of Ninja's boys already.
Ninja calls him a hacker, but this is so funny.
Oh yeah.
He says he's hacking aimbot.
Yeah, but they're both live streaming too.
Oh, that's hilarious.
He's just like, I'm reporting you, bro.
I'm reporting you.
Oh, does he really say that?
Yeah.
Oh shit.
So are all their people that are like in their live chat are they jumping back and forth
saying, oh my God, it's Tifu, it's Tifu.
Yeah.
So Ninja was just like focused on the fight.
So he wasn't paying attention.
Okay.
So people mess with Ninja all the time.
Yeah.
Because Turner had already killed him a couple of times.
Oh, that was a crazy ad place.
Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble.
He's flying through the air on fucking balloons.
So Turner died there.
Oh, so Turner died.
He didn't actually kill him.
But Ninja was like, all right, bro, be sure to go to the theater and report your ass.
Literally didn't miss a shot the entire time.
So funny too, how he somehow does those crazy trick maneuvers.
Yeah, he tried to trick shot him.
He knew he was going to die.
But he figured if he'd get the kill on that, it'd be a good clip.
Turner plays for entertainment.
He wasn't playing to actively try to kill somebody.
But he doesn't even react.
When most kids would be like, oh my God.
He's just stone faced after he does it.
And then Ninja realizes that he just called him a hacker when really he's just like,
I don't know, Turner's so much better than Ninja that like, to Ninja, he's cheating.
Yeah.
Because it doesn't seem possible.
Did they even play the same game anymore?
Like what is the game they play now?
So they've known each other for years before Fortnite.
They used to play PUBG against each other.
Yeah, and I don't really know what Ninja's doing now.
I know he's still live streams.
He's probably just playing games just for fun.
Because Tim the Tatman and him are really good friends.
Like he helped him blow up.
So I'm sure they're live streaming together still.
I still see him live every now and then, but with, I don't know.
I really enjoyed watching Fortnite.
I think it was one of the most enjoyable games to watch as a viewer that was like ever created.
I think some of the end games in Fortnite were some of the most exciting things to watch,
like the tournaments that they would have.
Seeing the high pro level players stacked on top of each other, like going to the end zones.
Like strategies for that was so nuts.
And it was so cool to watch like all the comms between teams and everything.
And now it's just too saturated.
They added too much bullshit.
I think if there was like a Fortnite 3.0 that was like,
it would have to be something like revolutionary to gaming.
You know, like maybe a VR version of Fortnite or something like that.
Because I just think the building aspect was really cool.
That was the most unique thing.
Like mastered the mechanics.
And then like me as an average player that's just trying to relax and have fun.
Like I'm watching somebody who's insane at building.
Like I'm probably going to get smoked, you know.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
The gaming world's crazy.
I'm definitely waiting for the next big thing.
I'm very interested to see when a massive game is going to be released
and tied to like a cryptocurrency.
Because I think that that's in the future for gaming.
Well, there are a ton of those play to earn games.
Yeah, there's a ton. Yeah.
But like one that like Microsoft or like Ubisoft or someone like that releases like a Mac.
You know, Fortnite attached to like, like that's a play to earn game.
The new GTA.
Yeah. Yeah. Something like that, you know.
Because I don't know, I think everything's going digital.
Do you fuck around with VR at all, Oculus at all?
A little bit. I've done it a little bit.
But it doesn't really interest me that much.
Yeah.
I'm more interested in trying to like create really good content.
I do watch a lot of movies.
Watch some TV shows too.
I'm a fan of like consuming high quality, you know, like movies all that go in the top 100 movies, like highest.
Like classic movies.
I mean, just anything I feel like that's highly recommended.
You know, something like I have a lot of conversations with my friends about it.
I mean, I recently watched Green Book.
You guys seen that one?
Oh, yeah. That's a fucking great movie.
That was one of the best ones.
That's one of my favorite movies that I've seen.
That was a really good movie. I enjoyed that.
Hector in the search for happiness. Have you seen that one?
No.
Super fire movie.
Awesome. Have you seen Shaun of the Dead?
No.
You've seen that?
It's like Dawn of the Dead, but it's like a comic.
It's like the first comedy zombie movie ever.
Oh, really?
Oh, no, I haven't seen that.
You're like throwing records at the zombie.
Yeah, it's that guy. It's the blonde dude from that.
Like Hot Fuzz. Have you seen Hot Fuzz?
Yeah.
I worked at the flea market for like four years, and I would buy DVDs all the time.
That's like one of the things.
I'd find somebody that's selling like four for a dollar, and I'd get a bunch of really sick movies.
I have a ton of movies at my house, and I don't know.
I always wanted to be in movies and make movies, and that's something that's always excited me.
So I feel like I'm just going to keep learning.
I've been watching movies from kind of from the standpoint of like how they're shot,
how they're filmed, looking at the different lighting and whatnot.
Plus getting to be on set for guest house.
I watch them making a movie in front of me.
I'm like, this is something I can do.
Get the right cameraman, get the right directors, the right lighting, the right mics.
It's not that hard.
It's just so much work.
It is a lot of work.
And there's so many people.
There's so many fucking.
It's like, I always think it's like a construction site.
Like, have you ever worked construction?
Have you ever been on a construction site?
It's the same fucking thing.
You've got this fucking crew of electricians that come into an electrical truck
that are in charge of all the wires and all the electric and all that shit.
You have another crew of people who are in charge of setting up the lights.
Another giant crew of people who have the props.
You have the fucking, the DP, the directors, the assistant director.
It's just like, I don't know.
It doesn't have to be that complicated though.
The guy that I was saying macaroni, the guy who was a YouTuber, turned, you know, director.
He does excellent work.
And he has a really solid team and a really solid crew.
I mean, yeah, there's a lot of moving parts like to edit the whole thing.
And, you know, you got to shoot everything in like fucking 6K now.
I don't even know what's going on.
I don't even know who has a 6K monitor to watch 6K on, you know.
That's what's crazy too.
It's like, nobody has 4K, like anything.
Nobody consumes, like, this isn't fucking 4K.
You can't fit 4,000 pixels on this tiny screen, you know, like, I don't know.
It's so hard to like shoot like that when I feel like nobody is consuming content
on anything but their phones, you know.
Like, I'm a fan of sitting on my couch and putting something on my TV
that I can sit down and like enjoy, you know.
I think a lot of people are still.
Yeah, I think so too.
That's why I think TikTok's bullshit.
Yeah, I think the pendulum's in the swing.
It's like a whole narrative, though. It's crazy.
I don't know.
The world's gone mad.
The car lifetimes are going to be nuts.
It's insane.
What do you think the future of, like, YouTube is in general?
Like, how much do you think YouTube as a shelf life,
do you think there's going to be a changing of the guard
when it comes to YouTube?
Is there going to be another big platform that takes over?
I hope so.
YouTube is dog shit now.
I mean, I love making content for people,
but I don't like the restrictions that YouTube has, you know.
I feel like it's like a freedom of speech thing, you know.
Like, I think one of the worst things that's ever happened
in the history of social media is deplatforming Trump, you know.
He has his own website now, though.
Yeah, I just think that, like, to take someone's voice away,
like, he was still president when they took, when Twitter deplatformed him, you know.
Like, that's like scary censorship.
That censorship that I think should not exist anywhere, you know.
Because, like, whatever your stances are of him,
he should be able to say what he wants to the people
that care enough to follow him, you know, like.
Because, like, everyone can choose what they want to read,
what they want to watch, what they want to listen to, you know.
We, for a very long time, everyone was kind of trapped in a box of content consumption.
Like, you could only watch what was on TV or what movies were out.
And, like, as soon as the internet came out,
it, like, gave people the ability to search for whatever they were interested in,
you know, whatever they wanted to learn about.
And that's why I'm such a huge fan of it.
But, like, when you start taking people's voices away
and start, like, telling people what they can and they can't upload,
it's like, it's like the freedom aspect of it goes away.
So, I've heard a lot about Rumble.
You guys know what Rumble is?
Yeah, I think they're based in, like, Sarasota or
down south in the West Coast.
And they're not censoring people and they're letting people upload the content that they want.
Yeah, well, there's always going to be, that's capitalism, right?
When you see the wounded lion, there's always going to be someone else
that's coming up to take over, take a spot.
Yeah.
You know, no matter what, you know, you can say whatever you want,
there's going to be someone that's going to want to fill that void.
It just blows my mind, like, looking at, thinking back on,
I don't know, we've been grinding YouTube forever.
I'm just kind of looking for the next thing, you know.
I really still enjoy filming commentary and I enjoy uploading videos as they come.
Like, if I go on trips, we go snowboard and surf and do a bunch of awesome stuff.
But, like, public pranks, we haven't done anything like that in years.
We kind of stepped away from all that.
We did the shark prank.
We did, like, Holly Boobe.
The shark prank was so sick.
I want to do, like, super high quality pranks.
Yeah.
One of the ideas we have is we're going to take that fake shark fin
and, like, hook it up to Merrick on the beach who's, like, got a fish on
and have him hook up to a big shark.
But we wanted to put in one of those little orange inflatable boats
and, like, have him be like, oh, it's pulling all my line out
and he'll get in the boat and start, like, reeling in
and then have the fin come out of the water and just drag Merrick, like,
100 yards down the beach by, like, a giant fin in a little orange boat.
That is funny.
So we have a couple ideas for pranks that I think are just going to be
absolutely magical and, like, just classic.
Like, everyone would love to see something like that.
But, uh...
That would be so cool if you could, like, evolve the pranks
and just keep them rolling and just evolve them into something
just, like, cinema quality pranks, you know?
Oh, we have such good ideas.
We've been working for so long to try to get the news
to put fake, big foot footage out.
It's been going on for, like, a year.
And, like...
We've been, like, sending in big foot sightings
from, like, all across South Florida.
And, uh, we've actually had a couple new stations respond,
but they're like, oh, footage isn't good enough.
If you actually catch something on video, blah, blah, blah,
send it in next time.
You're the fucking news. Come on.
We're still working on it. I think it's going to work.
But, like, I want to prank the whole United States.
I would like to get a big foot on a new station in every state.
And then you could say that you pranked the whole country.
I think China's doing a good job of pranking us already.
Yeah.
China.
China.
What are you thinking about World War III?
I think that the people that are in charge are all fucking dollars.
World War III, as we do this podcast right now,
World War III is literally beginning.
Oh, that would suck. I hope not.
Nobody's down for that, though.
Like, the average person does not want, like, war to go to war.
Like, it wasn't as hard to draft people back, like, 100 years ago,
because they rested them if you didn't go.
Yeah, that, too, but, like, also, the Internet wasn't around.
You know, there was people weren't making all sorts of money.
There's so much information out there.
Yeah.
And there's so much that people have learned and can learn.
And, like, I feel like war is just, like, it seems so stupid and so foolish.
All the stupid stuff.
No one wants to go shoot people.
Right.
I'm sure there's some psychos out there, like, you know,
people don't want that, like, for anyone.
And, I don't know, war has always been a game about money.
And it's crazy that the richest people that exist are so okay with just, like,
such horrible things happening.
Like, billionaires have, like, the ability to really change the world in some awesome ways.
They just don't, you know?
And I don't understand that. I never will.
And I don't understand, like, why people listen to these people, like,
I don't know, especially with everything that's going on with COVID.
Like, people are so quick to just, like, comply and to just do what the government says.
Like, I don't trust anything the government tells me.
I think that's very important to, like, question authority, you know?
Yeah.
I've seen what the Florida government has done for the water quality.
And they, I can't trust them with how irresponsible they've been
with just the quality of our oceans and of our waterways.
Like, they're so incompetent and they're so unwilling to fix such serious problems
just because some billion-dollar industry makes a billion dollars here, like...
What was it, the sugar industry in Florida that was contributing to all the...
Sugar is bad. Fossilite mining is the worst.
Fossilite mining is the worst thing that is plagued.
And they funded a lot of Rick Scott's campaign, right?
Of course they did. Yeah. And like, some of the biggest marine labs
for water quality and research in Florida are funded by Mosaic,
which is the multi-billion-dollar phosphate company.
And it's just like, as long as that keeps happening,
I'm not trusting a word that our government says at all.
Like, if they need to give the people a reason to trust them, you know,
I shouldn't have to be persuaded into trusting you.
I should see what you're doing and want to trust you based on the actions
that are taken by you, by the government.
You know, they need to do things that people see impacting their communities
in a positive way. And like, all I've seen is dead dolphins and manatees
and sea turtles. So like, they cannot blame me for not wanting to trust them
when they have been extremely irresponsible.
And like, that's just Florida government, you know?
Like in, you know, the president knew about what was happening here.
You know, President Trump signed that, I think it was like a billion-dollar bill
for a reservoir to be built south of Lake Okeechobee to contain the toxic water.
Like, can you pull up Google Earth for me real quick?
You guys want to see something crazy? What color is Florida?
What color? Yeah, from space.
Green? Yeah.
It was. It's not green anymore? South Florida's not looking too green anymore.
Really? Yeah, you want to see? South Florida's mostly...
South of Lake Okeechobee, the Everglades? Swamp and mangroves, right?
It used to be. Let's see it.
Yeah, go down a little bit. Look at past Lake Okeechobee.
Oh yeah, the tip is browning a little bit. Yeah, you see that?
And what is this from? It's because the historic water flow of Florida
flows from north to south. They built a reservoir around the south end of Lake Okeechobee
to where water cannot flow from Lake Okeechobee into the Everglades anymore.
They're sending it east and west. Right, right.
So the Everglades are drying out because of the restricted water flow.
It's like zoom in to the... Yeah, like Big Cypress National Reserve.
Zoom in a little bit more. Like, it's not looking good.
Yeah, it looks a little dry for sure. Yeah, for sure.
Have you ever gone down there?
Like, look at all that. That looks like shit up there.
Yeah, and look at all the agriculture. That's why. It's because they don't want...
They don't want that small city there to flood. People shouldn't live there, for one.
And water should be flowing from Lake Okeechobee down all the way down there, all the way through...
Right. South Florida, but it's not, and it hasn't been free.
And what is the reason that they created those up?
To prevent flooding, because people are stupid, and when houses flood, we build big walls,
and we send water elsewhere. It doesn't make any fucking sense.
To prevent flooding where, though?
From a small town south of Lake Okeechobee.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah. And like, you see all that agriculture? Like all those farms?
Yeah.
That's like mostly sugar. But, uh, yeah, those shouldn't be there either.
And water used to flow. Yeah, streams used to flow. Like, when it would rain too much,
you know, water would overflow south. And I guess there was like a really big hurricane,
and it just flooded too much or something. I don't know, but...
Yeah, we're restricting the historic water flow in Florida.
It's another huge problem. And that's because our government's incompetent.
Have you ever seen Carlton Ward's page on Instagram?
He is like the most legendary Florida photographer, wildlife photographer.
You gotta pull it up. Look up Carlton Ward's Instagram page.
He's like a super big, really big activist for preserving all the wildlife
and the undeveloped land in Florida.
And I think he just got something passed, or some big bill or law that was just passed,
where we had to keep a certain percentage of Florida undeveloped and natural.
Forget what it was called. But it was Instagram.
You want to see his Instagram?
There it is. It's the second link down.
There we go.
This guy is a Florida legend.
He has, he takes some of the fucking sickest, all his photography is Florida.
He's got like these super high quality cameras all throughout the Everglades,
throughout all the undeveloped land in Florida.
He's got like badass trail cams.
And their motion cameras, right. So they take like super, like go down to that one of that panther.
Down there, right there.
Oh fuck. Log in.
So like, he gets these things of all these crazy animals like in the middle of the night
just going through his trail cams.
Yeah, everybody who's lived here long enough, it's like,
my biggest thing is if people don't know, they can't care.
So like educating people on what's going on with our water quality is very important.
Something that I try to talk about frequently through like my YouTube videos.
But every time I post videos about it, it seems like they're suppressed
and they don't get recommended and I don't know, whatever.
That's another conspiracy for another day.
That's another thing I noticed with, with YouTube, with this podcast,
is that the amount of people that watch it on YouTube fluctuates so much.
But on Spotify, it's always consistent.
It's always like a consistent amount.
Like the same people that are subscribed to it, they always listen to it.
But on YouTube, it's the complete opposite.
But yeah, Carlton Ward's super, super big into this.
He's a super activist for Florida Wildlife.
You guys look, you guys know about like Randall Carlson?
Yeah, he was on this podcast like a month ago.
Yeah, he was sitting right where you are a month ago.
Really? Yeah.
No way. That guy's a legend.
You didn't see it?
No, I did not.
YouTube suppressed it.
It's because he's a concrete Randall Carlson.
No way you got to sit down with this guy.
It's because he's a Freemason.
They suppressed it.
I love this guy.
Dude, Randall rules, dude.
Dude, did you blow your guys' mind about all the cataclysmic events?
Oh yeah.
Look, there he is.
Oh my gosh.
What? I'm sitting in Randall's chair?
Randall's a fucking legend.
I would love to just like go on a trip with him to just like some crazy cataclysmic site.
He's doing some stuff in Tennessee.
He's always doing stuff.
He's doing some tours in Tennessee right now where he's touring some what?
Portugal.
And Portugal.
Oh yeah, yeah.
So he's going to...
Why humans need to leave Earth soon?
What was his, what was the consensus here?
He thinks that we're fucked?
I mean, does the headline have to have anything to do with...
Was he talking about the clock?
Was he talking about like the clock where the cataclysmic events like spike?
Like they're way more likely to happen in a short window of time?
Yeah.
He's basically saying that every, I think it was 400, no, every 600,000 years there is
an extinction level event from either volcanoes or asteroids.
No, he was saying every like 13,000 years.
No, that's the younger dryest.
Every, I think it's 600, I want to say it's 600,000 years there is either a super volcano
like the one that's underneath Yellowstone or an insane asteroid, a group of asteroids
that take out and are extinction.
And what do you think that's happening soon?
Well, we are in like a 100 year window right now of the exact anniversary of the last time
Earth was wiped out by a super volcano.
So volcanoes are one thing.
And we're having some crazy volcanic activity lately.
And the asteroids is like, I don't know, I think they cycle every 12,000 to 13,000 years or something like that.
But yeah, dude, that was a mind bending podcast.
He is, he does his research.
He's really smart.
I've listened to hours and hours and hours of that kind of talk.
I'm definitely going to watch his podcast.
It's a good one.
I bet everything he says is just...
So we talked about...
Takes you on a deep journey into the history of mankind.
He believes that humans have existed for long, long before what the history books say.
Super interesting guy.
We talked about Atlantis, this lost city of Atlantis and where he thinks it is.
He's going up there to do some filming and to go on a submarine around the Azores.
To try to find Atlantis?
You know where the Azores?
Like the Azores Plateau.
It's like if you go up to Spain and you go directly out into the middle of the Atlantic.
It's like halfway, it's like almost halfway between Greenland and Spain.
And that's where he thinks Atlantis is.
And he's going to go into a submarine and explore under...
That's where the Azores is.
That's where he thinks the lost city of Atlantis was.
That looks like somewhere that Atlantis would be.
So there's some submerged volcanoes and mountains right there.
Interesting.
And there's some crazy looking shit.
Pull up some photos of the Azores on Google Photo or whatever.
This would be an epic trip for the Jigsquad.
I think they're surfed there too.
Yeah, where they filmed the beach.
There's good surf there.
It does look like the beach.
Get rid of Island maybe.
Oh man.
Yeah, it's just Azores, yeah.
Yeah, there's some insane shit in the Azores.
That'd be so cool.
I hope he discovers something that's like groundbreaking.
It's been like his life's work, you know?
Yeah.
It's rare you find somebody who's dedicated that much of their life to one specific thing, geology.
Yeah, he's been on Brogan's podcast three times too, I'm pretty sure.
I think it's like seven times.
Is it?
Yeah.
But he's like so into geography and cosmology.
Somebody who knows so much about the history of the Earth and rocks and then so much about
the fucking stars and the planets.
He's got it all on paper too.
He compiles like so many other people's research.
He takes everything and collects all their thoughts and all their facts and everything that they've
learned.
Yeah, he paints some really cool pictures.
You guys watch the YouTube channel After School, spelled with a K.
It's one of my favorite channels that exist on YouTube.
It's just a guy who's really good at drawing and he takes philosophers and politicians
and comedians and influencers and takes like passages of things that they've said, mostly
philosophers, and he draws pictures to what they're saying.
If you click on any one of his videos, the last video he made was eight days ago, Terence
McKenna.
I try to watch...
So sick.
You know, I made like a daily goal to watch one of this guy's videos a day because he's
just takes so many different wise people's words and makes really cool videos.
Okay, he does these super fast animated videos.
Yeah, he's a really awesome channel though because I mean, I feel like everything is very
inspired, like enlightened.
Yeah.
Austin, can you turn the air on?
Yeah, 10 out of 10 recommend this channel.
If you haven't checked it out, just go home and check out his large library of videos
and find something you like and check it out.
You guys are familiar with like the Fibonacci sequence then, like his Randall Carlson is
a big...
I mean, he works with Graham Hancock pretty closely and Graham Hancock released the book
Fingerprints of the Gods.
You guys looked into that stuff?
Yeah, I read Fingerprints of the Gods.
Yeah, Fibonacci is crazy.
Explain it to people.
It's just a series of numbers, just like one plus two is three, two plus three is five,
so on and so forth.
And then if you take like a one by one box and you put it next to a one by two box and
you put it next to a two by three box, that creates the perfect spiral that's been seen
throughout all of nature, waves, shells, your eye, you know, it's just, it's undeniable
throughout the entire universe.
And if you like count the amount of spirals on a pine cone or on a flower or on a tree,
they'll like pretty much always add up to one of the Fibonacci sequences.
Like there's this other YouTube channel, this girl, and she takes all kinds of fruits
and vegetables and plants and flowers and pine cones and she draws on all of the spirals
and counts all of them.
And they just always add up to be a Fibonacci number.
Really?
Yeah.
And what does he equate that to?
Like what does he equate that to?
They just call it like the, they call it like the fingerprint of the gods.
It's just something that can't be explained yet.
It's everywhere, you know?
Is it at all tied into the Anunnaki?
I don't know what that is.
Dude, Randall's a wild fucking guy.
Randall is a beast, yeah.
He knows some fucking, like some of the shit that he told me, like about the moon and like
about how the moon could possibly be hollow.
Have you heard the story about how they ran a satellite in the moon?
Oh yeah, and it like reverberated for like 60 hours or so.
Like 60 hours or something crazy?
Yes, I did hear about that.
Yeah, rung like a bell.
Yeah.
That's what they say.
I forgot about that.
There's so much crazy shit.
And he was saying, you know, one of the things I asked him about when he was on here, I was like,
so if you were in charge of like our species on Earth, I'm like,
knowing everything that you know, because no one can possibly know what you know, Randall,
what would you do right now?
Like what should we be doing right now?
He's like, the number one priority for us right now should be to preserve our species,
is to get us onto the moon, like get us living on the moon as soon as possible.
I'm like, not Mars or anything.
He's like, no, he's like, Mars is going to take too long.
There's all these problems.
Elon thinks that Mars is in the near future.
Yeah.
Elon says it's going to be, how long does he say it's going to be?
Like 50, 100 years?
Yeah.
I mean, I thought it was even less than that, but he seems very confident in his rocket's abilities.
But the moon is going to have to be an intermediary point to the Mars.
So he's like, the first thing we should do is get on the fucking moon because if something happens on Earth,
we need a way to at least get some of us off the Earth to preserve our species,
because he truly believes that there's an extinction event coming very soon.
Wow.
And we're in that 100 year window right now?
Yes.
For not only the asteroids, but the super volcanoes.
Would you go to the moon if everybody started moving there?
Shit.
I mean, what kind of life is that?
I'll probably just catch the wave, the last tsunami.
No waves.
There's no surf on the moon.
Yeah.
Now he's talking to an event though that would be like, like, like everything ends,
like a shock wave so powerful that like you just die instantly.
Well, yeah.
Not only, I mean, instantly like, it depends how close you are to like, they're saying it,
they're saying if the, I think I watched the Yellowstone documentary,
they said if the volcano erupted in Yellowstone.
It would be a slow death for all of us.
It would be, everyone in the US would die within a couple of weeks.
Obviously in like the two, like the 500 mile vicinity of the volcano, instant death.
But the entire United States would take a couple of weeks and then it would eventually
get over to Europe.
And we would run out of oxygen, right?
Yeah.
And it would black out the sky.
Shit would die.
And everything would have to rebuild.
Oh my God, dude.
Could you imagine like just like when hurricanes come here and we lose power for a week or
two?
Like Irma, remember Irma?
Yeah.
And dude, I feel like that, that volcano, the last one that erupted in the ocean, like
that was a real wake up call.
That was insane.
Life, life as we know it can change like that.
Like everything, you know, like all, and that's another problem that I have with like grinding
TikTok and like putting all my time into something that doesn't like serve me or the
like, you know, I want to do stuff that I enjoy.
Like I feel like our days are numbered.
Obviously they are numbered, but I don't know if I got next week to look forward to.
So I kind of try to like live fast and just try to do everything that is on my bucket list,
essentially.
But you know, I've been traveling so much lately that I am also happy to get home and
work on some other projects and do some other stuff and teach people about history.
Because like, just like Randall is such a beast just because he's super passionate about
it.
You know, through fossil exploration, like finding all the megalodon teeth and all the
mammoth stuff that we find.
Like I've learned so much about planet Earth.
How did you get into doing that?
I've learned so much about Florida.
I've just been finding shark's teeth my whole life.
And with the birth of the internet, you become, you become like aware of a lot of stuff that
you didn't know about.
And I saw people scuba diving for megalodon teeth, and I saw people digging, like I just
went on YouTube, Shark Tooth Hunting, Florida, and I find videos of people walking around
on construction sites finding giant megalodon teeth.
I'm like, what?
This is insane.
So we got a tip to go, I'm not even going to say the tip online, that we got.
We got like a general area.
It's like, hey, if you go somewhere around here and you find a construction site and
they dug down deep enough, there will probably, there will be shark's teeth there.
So it was raining one day and we heard, you know, rain's a good time to go shark's tooth
hunting because the rain washes away the sand and it leaves the, the big stuff, you
know, all the fine sand goes away and all the big teeth get left behind.
Are you talking about Venice, Florida?
Oh, we're in near Venice, yeah.
Okay.
But like that, there's like a-
How far is this famous for shark's teeth?
Like, it's the shark tooth capital of the world.
Oh, is it really?
Yeah.
It's Casper since beaches.
The pier is called Sharky's Pier.
So from Venice to South Carolina, there's shark's teeth.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think even further up than that.
And, but Florida has the most well-preserved shark's teeth on the planet.
Like the highest quality teeth on the planet come from Florida.
Like there are no, there is nowhere on the planet that people will pay such a premium
on price for shark's teeth than the teeth that come out of Florida.
I don't know what that is.
It has to do with like the phosphorus in the ground.
It has to do with all the minerals that were here because like Florida's been underwater
several times.
Like probably dozens of times.
And you can find megalodon teeth all across the whole state.
And we're truly trying to buy land right now because we want to preserve those fossils.
There's so much development going on right now.
And when they develop all these neighborhoods on this land, they're destroying so much history.
So we're just trying to buy like 20 acres, 30 acres, 50 acres, something like that so
we can excavate it for fossils and, you know, conserve what's left there before the whole
entire fucking state of Florida is developed and the whole United States moves here.
It's full dude.
It really like my hometown is not as enjoyable as it once was.
Like I love where I live because it's like quiet beach town.
Like, you know, they're trying to build a fucking parking garage behind Krabby Bills.
Like somewhere between Central Ave and Fifth Ave.
Like that strip, they're trying to build like a three story parking garage.
Really?
And they're like trying to like be like hush hush about it.
And like all the residents found out now there's like an uproar.
They don't want to happen.
Hell no, I posted about it.
I was like, yo, come to the city hall meeting.
Oppose this.
This is dog shit.
Yeah.
People are like, oh, it'll try to free up all the it'll free up all the people that park
in the neighborhoods.
It's like, no, it won't.
It'll just make more people come.
I think if you want parking garages, go to Clearwater Beach.
Please just get out of here.
Like it's bad enough that there's dozens of townhomes popping up everywhere.
You know, it's not dude to Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, three days in a row during
the week in the winter, every beach access parking lot completely slammed.
I've never seen that before this time of year.
You know, it's been like that for a couple of years.
I mean, no.
And the last two years, like, I don't know.
Scared everybody, bro.
COVID scared everybody.
Yeah, I did.
You know, there was a point in time where I could go on the beach.
There's not a single person on the beach because the beach was closed.
That was that during COVID.
Really close the beaches.
Dad, you guys don't remember that?
Yeah, it would not let people on the beach.
I don't remember that.
I had the excesses all blocked off the cops, blocking the barricades.
And it was so, it was so dumb.
Can we agree that COVID is bullshit?
Everyone in Florida is over.
Oh, it's the dumbest fucking thing ever.
What would you block the beach?
They do the dumb and they're still doing the dumbest shit.
And everyone's just super OK with like, not everybody, but a lot of people.
A lot of people.
Dude, it's like people are pussies.
A lot of people are pussies.
Companies that are making these vaccines are some of the
like least trusted companies in the medical field that have ever existed.
There's been like multi, multi million dollar lawsuits
against these companies for like impractical drug use and just like.
The list is endless of all the shit that they've done wrong.
And like, everybody's just so OK.
Like, did you know that the COVID vaccine is the most profitable
medical product in history?
Like Pfizer made forty nine million, forty nine billion dollars
in one year off of selling the vaccines, making it the most profitable
medical product of all time.
I believe it.
Like that shouldn't happen because like Russell Bran just did a podcast.
Like I love a vaccine that's supposed to help the entire planet
should be made with the best interest of people's health.
They made it with the best interest of making the most money.
Right. So like when a company's drive is
stock and to keep their shareholders happy and to make as much money as possible,
they're probably not going to put as much time as they possibly can
into making sure that it's a great product.
Right. Right.
It wouldn't make sense.
It's not a good business move.
So like historically, all they've done is what is, you know,
like they came out with a medicine that was like really good for some specific
disease. I don't remember exactly what it was.
But once it became a really popular medicine, it was marked up like
seven thousand percent from when they released it because it became popular.
And because once it's worked and once they knew that people needed it,
they can charge a lot more for it.
So like when their interest as a company is to make money and not
release a product that is affordable and that makes sense for their consumer,
like we really like how is the whole entire planet?
You're just going to all of a sudden trust this corporation
that's interest is making money.
Did you know, did you know that?
And then once you start mandating it, once you start saying people have to
take something that is made by a company that people didn't fucking trust before,
you know, it's like, what?
Like I want to speak in a foreign language here or is this ridiculous?
I know it's ridiculous that you will get shamed for saying now
and that you can't go to certain countries because you didn't want to take
a drug that was created by criminals, you know, it's crazy.
Did you know that I think it's 75 to 80 percent?
I think that was the stat we talked about with Dom Dagestino, 75.
This guy, we had this guy on here, who's a he's a nutritional
research scientist and a neuroscientist.
And we were talking about how the United States, out of all the clinical research,
the billions of I forget the price, but it's in like the tens of billions
of dollars every year for clinical research funding.
Between 80 and 90 percent of it goes to drugs, drugs instead of shit,
like diet or or psychological stuff or anything like that.
It's all just based on drugs, on remedies, not remedies.
But God, everyone's becoming such a pussy, too.
Like it's like you have to be OK with what everyone wants for themselves.
Like that's OK, but like also we shouldn't be just like allowing people
to just like eat McDonald's every day until they die or like only eat candy
or like only eat ice cream.
You know, like there needs to be a line drawn like they don't preach health
on any of the mainstream outlets.
You know, like when COVID first came out, it's like, hey, like the sun is really good.
Like we need to treat this as as what we've always treated viruses.
Like if it's something that that harms your lungs, you know, get your lungs open up,
get outside, get, you know, get your cardio going.
Make sure you're breathing.
Make sure you get your heart, you know, what?
Just preaching like healthy lifestyles.
It's like gone and it's just like you can't call like a fat person fat
because it's offensive nowadays.
But like also like we need to like coach these people that aren't healthy
into being healthier instead of just being like everyone's like it's OK
to like be 300 pounds overweight.
It's like I don't hate you for it, but I would like to tell you what you can do
to make the quality of your life better, you know.
Right. And don't weaponize it against other people.
Yeah. And then it's just like, I don't know.
It's like all the movement like big is beautiful.
Like, yeah, everyone's beautiful.
You know, everybody is beautiful.
But like also you like healthy is like being healthy is important.
Yeah. They're very long, you know, I don't know.
It's just everyone's getting too sensitive.
Like you should be able to say what you want.
That's what I want to do.
Stand up comedy, too.
Because I feel like if you're a comedian, there's almost like you're allowed
to cross lines, you know, you're allowed to like cross boundaries
for the sake of comedy and I just feel like I'd really enjoy myself.
I've been working on routine for like four years now.
Have you? Yeah.
When like very soon, I'm just going to go to an open mic night.
Have you ever done any open to Mike?
Nice. Never. Not really.
But I've written a lot of material that I'm convinced is really funny.
I'll like I'll watch a lot of stand-up comedians specials.
And a lot of the time, they're really not that funny.
A lot of the time, like I write better stuff than I send out for a fact.
And I won't step to like somebody like Dave Chappelle or like Daniel Tosh
or Richard Pryor, like those guys are all absolutely goaded, you know.
Like I was watching Kevin Hart's last stand up.
And he's like, you know, this whole COVID thing hasn't made me feel comfortable.
I don't like leaving my house.
So that's why we're doing this in my house.
And he's got like people perfectly six feet apart, like scattered across
like this theater room, I guess, in his house, like everyone's double masked.
And like he's doing jokes about COVID.
And like I watched it for like 30 minutes and I didn't laugh once.
I turned it off and I was like, I'm funnier than at least that, you know.
Yeah. I don't know. I've been working on it.
I think it's going to be good, but that's one of my like bucket list things.
You got to do a stand up routine, you know, to have a stand up special.
When are you going to start doing open mic nights?
Soon, like sometime like this month or next month.
Yeah, you're just going to show up unannounced as a random small
comic club and just start doing it.
See what happens.
Just like, see if I can draw some laughs, like practice my style.
Maybe go have a cameraman come and film just like, I don't know.
I want to get my feet wet.
You know, I feel like it's like ribbon off of Band-Aid.
It's just something that I need to go and do.
And it's like Dave Chappelle said, he was so nervous the first time that he did
stand up and went out there, enjoyed it, you know, went to go do something
at the Apollo, got booed off stage.
And then it was just like, you know, that was the worst.
Like nothing can hurt me now.
Like, you know, he said he just went through it and then never stopped.
I saw the funniest, I wonder the best stand up show I've ever been to.
Who?
Last week, Tim Dillon.
I don't know who that is.
You know who Tim Dillon is?
Oh my God, dude.
He is the funniest motherfucker in the world.
You have to, you have to watch, you have to listen to his podcast.
He does this like monologue type podcast where he just, he's kind of like,
he's like the gay, younger version of Alex Jones.
Wow.
Imagine Alex Jones, but like in his early, like his mid thirties and gay.
I'm going to check and a little bit overweight and he's like super
into crypto and like metaverse shit and he's super into conspiracy theories.
And dude, he's, and he's kind of like right wing too.
Interesting.
Funny as fuck.
This guy, that's the kind of shit you find on Tim Dillon's Twitter page.
Interesting.
The fucking deep, deep, deep Dillon post.
Yeah.
The deep dark wormhole wormholes of conspiracies.
Holy shit.
But that's like a, it's kind of like the same thing with, with COVID, you know,
when, when 9-11 happened, they just found more ways to control us and take more
power with Patriot Act and the war on the war, the Iraq war.
And with COVID, they're trying to do the same thing.
I just heard something about they're trying, which country is it?
The UK is talking about, Great Britain is talking about creating their own
type of digital currency.
That's like a, it's like a coupon.
So it's like a, think of like a crypt.
They want to create their own cryptocurrency, but it's centralized.
So they can control what you can use your money for.
So they can say, you can go and you, you can take your money that you make every
week at your job and you can, right, exactly.
You can use it to buy this kind of food, or you can use it to buy that.
So they can literally control what you buy.
It's like black mirror episode.
Yeah, it really is.
It's just like a black mirror episode.
I'm chilling on all that craziness.
Dude, and that's like, world's supposed to be more simple.
Like there's too much noise.
Like he's too much.
You can grow your own food.
So, so crazy and so wrapped up in everything that goes on in their phones
and like what they see in the news.
And like, Oh God, just a hundred years ago, we didn't have these things.
And like life was so much more simple.
Like, have you ever considered what your life would be like for the next few
weeks if you did not use a computer or a phone?
Like, what would you do?
I never even thought about it.
I'd be on the beach somewhere.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'd be on the beach somewhere.
I'd be surfing.
I'd be surfing maxed out pipe with Nathan Florence with my life flashing before my eyes.
Well, like think about that.
Like think about a year.
Like what the next year of your life looks like without technology.
Never thought about it.
People need to think about that.
Yeah.
What would you do?
Probably along the lines of the same stuff that I do anyways, you know, I.
Shark's teeth.
I love the internet and I love technology.
And I love editing and going down rabbit holes and learning and the
metaverse and crypto and NFTs and whatever it is.
It's all, I love it.
I think it's awesome.
I think it's very positive.
It can be used in a very positive way.
But I like the real world way more, you know, I'd rather go surfing.
I'd rather go skating.
I'd rather go golf.
I'd rather go hunt for Megalodon teeth and rather go paddle board.
Go out on the beach.
Like I really enjoy being outside.
And like one of my favorite things that I've started obsessing over the last
few years is, is V, uh, getting videos and pictures of storms, like supercells
and lightning and time lapses.
Like, man, I filmed, did you see the lightning strikes I filmed last year?
I was filmed in my opinion, some of the most uniquely captured lightning
strikes that have ever been filmed by anyone.
And it wasn't because of my skill as a videographer.
I just was in the right place at the right time for the right lightning strike.
You know, like the slow mo guys took their $200,000 red camera, you know, and
went and filmed lightning at 60,000 frames per second and 4k, you know, but the
lightning type of lightning that they were shooting wasn't as impressive as, you
know, what mother nature has to offer.
It's like going and shooting IRB versus pipeline.
It's like, what kind of lightning were they shooting?
They were just shooting like, cloud to ground lightning.
Just like quick, like, boom, but there's like, uh, there's different, there's a
lot of different types of lightning and there's different like levels to where
the lightning strikes in the atmosphere.
And like, I've learned that like, and we'll crawl or lightning, the lightning
that crawls across the bottom of the cloud is some of the best lightning.
And I read some recently, it was like the biggest lightning strike was recorded.
Yeah.
I just did a video about that.
And the biggest rogue wave.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
What's your video?
Yeah.
The rogue wave and the lightning.
I think I sent it to you.
Yeah.
What was the deal with the rogue wave?
The rogue wave.
Uh, a rogue wave is, is defined as a wave that is more than twice as big as the
swell surrounding it.
So if it's like two to four foot and there's just like a nine to 10 foot
wave that comes out of nowhere, that would be considered a rogue wave.
So it was the biggest rogue wave that's ever been recorded in history.
It was, uh, around like 78 feet.
Did you look up, pull it up, go to type in juke squad real quick.
Did you figure out what it was from?
Or did anybody figure out what it was from?
It was like, it's just like, uh, according to all the data that we've
gathered in the, um, with all the buoys, a wave like that only happens once
every like, it's the biggest rogue wave.
Yeah, that one every 1300 years.
Or the, yeah, that was the odds that we've gathered.
You're going to want to pause real quick and then scroll your mouse across
the bottom so I can see the timestamp.
Yeah, I keep going.
I talk about the lightning first.
Keep going, keep going, keep going.
We just want to find a boot.
Yeah, go back a little bit.
Yeah, right there.
Now go full screen.
Where is this?
This is off the coast of Canada.
The coast of Canada, like, I forget actually, I just did a video on this,
but in the Atlantic, but look, so watch.
So that's the first wave of the set.
Watch this next one.
That was a long swell.
Oh shit, the bottom's falling out.
Oh, literally off the chart.
Imagine you're on a boat out there, like a fishing boat or something,
and that rogue wave just shows up.
If it swells with that big, you do not want to be out there.
That was the biggest rogue wave ever captured.
Really?
By a buoy, yeah.
That's insane.
I thought that was worth doing.
Imagine she all yelled there.
See, I like doing the rogue wave hits.
I like making videos about stuff that's like fascinating to me.
Like I saw, I was like, this is insane.
And then I saw the lightning, like the biggest lightning strike
that's ever been captured or recorded.
It was like last week too.
I was like, damn, these both happened within, you know,
not very far of each other.
It's kind of crazy to think about.
That is crazy.
Lightning is insane.
What kind of hurricane season are we going to have?
I don't know.
We should charge.
The last year's hurricane season was fucking nuts.
Last year was probably the most consistent surf I've ever seen.
We had a hurricane every week.
Dude, I surfed probably like 60 or 70 days
where it was like above waist-high in Lassie.
I was, I'm pretty sure there was like nine or 10 days in a row
that I was surfing every single day outside of 25th
because there was just always waves.
I think one storm, another storm.
Like storms were sitting out there for like an entire week
and take a week to cross the Gulf.
We were just getting so much swell.
Does that wave still break on 25th?
That like peeling left-hander?
No, no, unfortunately.
Were they dredged it?
That was done after that first swell.
Dude, that was unreal.
Tell you what though, you know what is going to be absolutely off the charts
is a channel three, the other side of Sand Quay.
They're dredging the whole inside of the past right there.
They're putting a ton of sand in.
It's going to make a gnarly sandbar out there.
And I think the surf there is going to be nuts.
That'll be fine.
I've been surfing there for fucking 15 years.
So I've never, I've hardly ever seen anyone surf there ever.
So if people start surfing there, you know, I'll just drop in on them.
Just roll right into shepherds.
Yeah, go get a drink.
Yeah, that place is like legendary
for being like a famous skimboarding spot, right?
But the surf gets kind of there.
I've never seen it like that big, though.
But like the biggest I've seen is like waves.
I've gotten shacked there.
I've seen it like head high, but out past the Opal Sands.
OK. Favorite hotel in Clearwater, by the way.
The Opal Sands, even more than the Sand Pearl.
I finally got arrested for the channel, too, Danny.
We have that in common now.
Oh, my God. Oh, yeah.
Oh, I was I was arrested before you were on your YouTube channel.
Yeah, you were the first one to go to jail.
Oh, yeah, that was hilarious.
That was the last time I was in jail.
That was great. Was it the first time?
Not wasn't the first time.
But that was the most recent time.
Yeah, I still got community service.
It's no fun.
You got to probably get there for the Hollywood.
Well, I wanted to ask you about your lucid lucid dreams.
What happened?
Not in focus.
Oh, fuck.
Beautiful as ever.
How'd you get into lucid dreams?
And how does that whole thing work?
I don't know how I got into lucid dreams.
I think I just read something online that talked about conscious dreaming,
just the concept of being awake in your dreams.
And I was a teenager at the time.
Like, I'd never even like I've dreamed my whole life.
Like, and from a very young age, I was writing down my dreams
because they were just so crazy.
I'd gone crazy adventures and somebody told me
when I was really young that if I write down all my dreams
and I fill up a journal, I'll have a really cool book of all my dreams someday.
And I was like, oh, that sounds cool.
So I would do that.
And then I became aware of the concept or the perspective
of being awake while dreaming and it just completely blew my mind.
I was like, what?
You can like be conscious while while being asleep.
And it just like, I don't know, just kind of like shook me in a weird way.
And I started researching it more
and I started looking into performing reality checks,
which is where you ask yourself if you're dreaming when you're not dreaming.
So like right now I'd be like, am I dreaming?
I don't think so.
One of the another good thing to do is to like ask yourself how you got here.
Because typically in a dream, you don't remember arriving there.
You're kind of just like thrown into a situation.
So I do that and I would do that like several times a day.
I would even take a Sharpie and put like a mark on my hand.
And every time I saw the mark, I would do a reality check
or like set alarms on my phone and like several times a day,
just question reality, just contemplate if anything looks weird.
And when you're dreaming, if you ask yourself, if you're dreaming
or if you ask yourself how you got somewhere or if it seems weird,
it'll just be different.
Like, how did I get here?
Like, I have no fucking idea how I got here.
And that's like kind of a trigger.
Like I just questioned reality enough.
And then I would while I was sleeping, I would ask myself
while I was dreaming, I'd realize I was dreaming.
I get really excited.
And the first time that I ever became lucid, I got so excited
that I just like watched the dream, just like deteriorate
like the floor of the dream fell out.
And I just like woke up in my bed and I was like, whoa,
and I learned online that you have to learn to stay calm and stay focused.
Because if you get too excited, you're just going to wake yourself up.
And I just started exploring, going deeper and deeper
into what was possible in my dreams.
And I created like a bucket list for dreaming.
There's like things that I wanted to do and there's things that I still want to do.
And one of the things was I wanted to
be able to make objects change with my hands or with my thoughts.
And I was in a dream.
I still vividly vividly remember this and a car was driving by
and I knew I was dreaming and I was like, I like that.
And the car flipped and like crashed and exploded.
It was so loud and it was so gnarly.
And it was like, I don't know, when you're dreaming and you're lucid dreaming,
like you're actually there.
Like there's nothing that it's not as any different than what we're doing right now,
except for the only limits in your dreams or the limits that you create in your head.
So one of the other big goals that I had was to fly.
I really wanted to fly in my dream.
But like if I stand up right now and I try to fly off the ground,
it's not going to work and I will never be able to convince myself
that it's possible because it's not.
But like if you, while you're dreaming, can just take something that's impossible
and know that it's possible, if you can convince yourself that you can fly in your dream,
it's weird. Half the time I can and half the time I can't.
Like half the time I'll like be light and I'll feel like less weight,
but like I'll jump and I'll like kind of like moon jump.
Like I won't actually fly.
But like there's just some times where I just have like the free perspective
that like I can just see myself floating and I just feel weightless.
Like it's a hard perspective to acquire to allow yourself to be OK
with like yourself flying.
Like it's just it's like because it's not something people think about.
It's not. Yeah, you don't like I can't fly like people don't fly.
Like if you can like if you can purely see it in your head
and you can see yourself flying when you're dreaming to start flying,
I would just fly around and just like it's the most free,
like craziest feeling ever.
But you know, it's cooler than flying is breathing underwater.
That is the craziest lucid dreaming experience I've ever had in my entire life
is knowing that I'm dreaming and swimming underwater and knowing that
you can't drown surfing. I can't drive. Exactly.
I've made waves come out of the ocean.
I've surfed the biggest waves that I've ever seen while lucid.
I'll get into more stuff that I've done in my dreams
that kind of relate back to reality in a second.
But. God, it's just it's it's absolutely mind blowing.
So is it like you when you're awake, you make it a habit
of asking yourself if you're dreaming.
So you have to contemplate dream perspectives.
Like what like how you used to have to see yourself lucid dreaming.
You have to see yourself in a dream consciously aware that you're dreaming.
You have to create that perspective in your head.
Like I am a firm believer that like us as humans,
like our minds are capable of things that like people can't even comprehend.
Like I think that like everyone's like kind of connected.
And like, oh, you can feel people's energy.
Like it's like when you know what somebody's going to say before they say it.
It's just like an intuitive thing.
Oh, man, just the whole topic.
I kind of have been off of it for a little while,
but I still dream all like every single night I have crazy dreams.
Most of the time they're just dreams that I like thoroughly enjoy.
I haven't been lucid as much lately,
but one of the ways that I have been becoming lucid is by having nightmares.
Because if something terrible is happening in a dream, like super terrible,
I question reality and I realize when something horrible,
like if somebody's holding a gun or like you have just crazy nightmares,
you know, people have nightmares, always go lucid.
Because I always realize that it's a dream.
I've actually had dreams where people are chasing me with guns.
It's like the scariest situation you can ever imagine
because you're about to die or so you think.
And it's like, wait, this is a dream.
This isn't actually happening.
Turn around, guy with the gun, take the gun from him.
He goes, here you go, it's your dream now.
I just start flying, start doing whatever I want.
But what's crazy about dreams is it's really hard to take information
from like reality into the dream world.
Most of the time, like dreams are emotions and perspectives and situations, you know?
Like a dream doesn't have to be a place and it doesn't have to be a conversation.
It can be a feeling, you know?
Like you have dreams that are scary.
You have dreams that are like about love.
You have dreams that are happiness.
You have dreams that are like about fear.
Like there's a whole bunch of different types of like dreams.
Like I said, it doesn't have to be a place or a conversation.
It can be just like strictly a feeling.
And it can almost always be equated to something that happened to you in real life.
Like I've had dreams where like there was a dream.
I was at Gasparil and some lady like fell off the side of one of the draw bridges.
She was like trying to climb down as you fell.
And like we had all these people like helping lift her up.
And then like a couple, it was either the next night or a couple of nights later.
I like had another dream that it was like a similar situation where I was like helping
somebody like out of some like place.
But when I thought about at Gasparil and when I thought about it and the dream,
it was like the same exact situation.
So like you ever hear somebody say sleep on it?
It's like, oh, if you don't, if you haven't made your mind up on this,
you should probably just sleep on it.
Your brain goes through everything that happened the day before while you sleep.
Your mind is subconsciously processing every conversation, every interaction,
everything that happened to you that day.
So like if you surf all day, you're probably going to have dreams about surfing.
If you golf all day, you'll probably get better than I've ever slept in my life.
Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes when you get too exhausted to, you won't have as vivid
of dreams because you're like so deep and you're subconscious.
But oh man, I could talk about dreaming forever.
That's one of the most fascinating things ever.
But like I was talking about breathing underwater.
Like I was, there was like this bridge, right?
And on each side of the bridge, there's like crystal clear like streams.
And it's almost like, it's like a, a giant like concrete structure,
but it's like indoor and outdoor.
It's not like I'm inside of a place.
It's like I'm inside of like a old structure on the side of a river,
like in a jungle somewhere.
And there's these crystal clear streams and there's all these underwater caves
and like all the caves are like well lit.
And like when you swim down in a cave, it opens up to this giant room
and there's all these fish and everything.
And I'm lucid and I jump in the water and I like, you know,
you get that tightness feeling in your chest.
I was just like, this is a dream.
I like, there's nothing that can hurt me here.
I can swim underwater and I should be able to be relieved.
Like because I've had dreams where I'm breathing underwater,
but I just feel myself breathing in my bed.
It's like not like I'm actually breathing in the dream.
I can feel like myself laying in my bed and I feel myself like breathing in
reality, but like I'm holding my breath in the dream, but I'm still like
feeling my chest being relieved.
And then there's other lucid dreams where I'm in the water and I know that
I'm dreaming and I open my mouth and I like breathe in water and I feel
like the cold water fill up my lungs and it relieves me.
Like I don't choke.
Like I feel relieved and I'm just like, like breathing in this.
It's like, it like goes from being like heavy, thick water to like,
it feels like cold air almost, you know, but like perspectives in your dreams
can shift so quickly because like it is an imprint of your subconscious mind.
It's not actually like a real place.
Like it, what's crazy about lucid dreaming is you have to maintain your focus
on the fact that you're lucid or else you'll get distracted and you'll snap
back into a dream.
Like I never, ever remember a lucid dream ending.
I just continue dreaming, you know, unless I wake up.
But like it's, oh man, it's interesting.
It's like, it's so gnarly.
Like I think it's something everyone should take some time and learn about
because it has absolutely changed my life.
Like a small way would be I was lucid at IRB skate park in my dream.
I knew that it was a dream and I'm at the skate park.
And I suck at going frontside on the rail.
Like I'd never done frontside 50 50s before.
And I was like, oh, I'm dreaming.
Like I can't get hurt.
Drop in, grind across the whole thing, do it a couple of times, start skating,
start shredding.
And I woke up and I was like, damn, like that was so easy.
Went straight to the skate park, dropped in 50 50 grind, frontside first try.
Never done it before besides in my dream.
But the dream gave me the confidence that I needed and the perspective to where
like I went in person and did it.
Like on a magic, better than the, than I would have if I didn't have that dream.
Like it wasn't even a question that the dream helped me.
Like the dream is the reason why I landed that trick.
And there's a lot, all of the most, like the smartest minds, like, like
Nikola Tesla and Albert Einstein and Neil deGrasse Tyson.
Like they're all lucid dreamers.
They all talk really.
Do they really?
Yeah.
Look up like Albert Einstein.
Look up, uh, look up famous lucid dreamers on Google.
Maybe there'll be a list of people that might pop up.
Yeah.
First one is like Tim Dillon and Alex.
Bill Clinton crazy.
Oh man.
Salvador Dali.
Yeah.
Christopher Nolan, Leonardo DiCaprio, Stephen King, Leonardo DiCaprio.
Steve, I'm telling you a lot of that sounds just like that inception.
Inception is about Lucy.
That's what it is.
It's the same way and after you have this conversation,
like rewatch that movie and think about being lucid.
It's like a dream inside a dream.
Stephen King.
I can't, I got to discredit him because he wrote his best books while he was doing
mountains of cocaine at the same time.
Why would that discredit him?
I don't know.
That's extra credit.
Extra credit.
I really lose because he wasn't sleeping.
That's why it's, it's fascinating.
Absolutely fascinating to me.
And it's like, I don't know.
People limit themselves.
Like we're on a rock orbiting around a fireball and infinite space and people
want to like limit themselves to like, oh, I can't do this.
I can't do that.
It's like, you know, last night I was breathing underwater, flying and making
mountains come out of the ocean inside my mind.
Like I've had, I've had such vivid dreams all night.
Like I, I, I, I had a string of lucid dreams one night and I was like downhill
longboarding and I was surfing and I was like doing all this crazy shit.
What seemed like a six hour adventure.
Like I was like, my mind was conscious the whole entire night.
And then I woke up and it had seemed like the day before that night.
And the next day it was all one timeline.
Like, and I like started feeling like, like my potential was infinite because
like my mind never rested.
And I was going on these, like I'll wake up in the morning sometimes just
like absolutely pumped and stoked because I had the sickest dreams ever.
And like, I don't know, like that feeling of flying.
Like, and breathing underwater and doing all these incredible things.
Like that makes you feel like, I don't know, like you've taken over the world.
Like you're invincible.
Like it's, it's, yeah, it kind of makes me speechless.
It's just the craziest shit that you can ever imagine.
Like it's possible inside your own head while you're supposedly like resting.
Like, have you ever had, I'm sure you have like out of body experiences.
That's like, that's it.
You're not, you're there, but you're not there.
You know, it's like, it makes, it just like changes reality for you.
Have you ever had, been in a situation where you had your life flashed before your eyes?
Yeah, like a lot of times, like a top 10 near death experience video on YouTube.
Do you really?
Dude, that is the craziest thing ever.
Lightning.
Lightning is one of the, the gnarliest, probably the, yeah, I think I'd never thought
that I was dead more than one lightning strike struck really close to me.
It's happened to me twice.
It's a weird thing.
It's a weird like dream state you go into.
I've done it mostly like drowning, like when I think I'm going to drown.
Like I've been, I've done it when I've been free diving through like underwater caves
like one time, the first time it happened to me, I was free diving through an underwater
cave and I couldn't find the exit.
And I was swimming as fast as I fucking could and there was no exit and I was like 20 feet
underwater and I'm just like, I'm dead.
I'm going to, I'm probably going to die here.
And like my whole life flashed from my eyes, everything that happened in my life from as
far back as I can remember.
And that's like, that was super weird.
You ever done DMT?
Never done DMT.
You do it on the podcast.
Have you?
Yeah.
We should do it.
I'd be down.
Shane knows where to get it.
No, he doesn't.
Who's listening?
But yeah, when your life flashed.
No, I'd like to try it though.
How many times does that happen to you, would you say?
I don't know.
I have no idea.
A lot.
Many.
Drowning?
Like, like, drowning in the ocean?
I've never, no, I've never, never thought I was going to drown.
No.
I've gotten, I mean, I've, I've gotten to where I was like, oh shit, like if I get a
little bit more fucked up, I might be to the point where I'm like, I might drown.
I've gotten winded in the ocean before, but I've never like genuinely been scared
that I've genuinely been scared that I was going to drown.
I've such like, I feel so at peace in the ocean.
And I've gotten my ass kicked by such massive waves in Cabo.
I feel like I've gotten really fortunate.
You know, I've gotten absolutely beaten, but definitely saved a lot of people from
drowning, never had to get saved.
So that's good.
Keep up that streak.
That is good.
The last Cabo trip, man, we had to, we saved like eight different people.
That would have been really, really terrible situations if we weren't there.
Yeah.
Insane.
What is that one, uh, right hand point break in Mexico?
Zippers.
No.
What the fuck is it called?
There's like a surf camp right there and it's like right on this massive cliff.
Cerritos.
I don't know.
Couldn't tell you.
Oh, uh, Scorpion Bay.
No, I can't remember what it's called right now.
Are you sure?
I think it's Scorpion Bay.
I don't think it's Scorpion Bay.
Where's my skeleton?
No, the skeleton base.
No, that's Africa.
That's Africa.
Pirate's Cove.
Scorpion Bay.
Smuggler's Cove.
What the fuck is it called?
Hold on.
It's Scorpion Bay.
This is where we got to go, bro.
Is there a bathroom in here?
Yeah, right out there to the right, out that door to the left.
First place on the left.
We're back.
Barra de la Cruz.
This is a place I want to fucking, I want to go next.
Who is the most perfect fucking rights ever?
Oh my God, let's go.
I'll go with you.
And there's a bunch of sick little spots to stay like right on this beach.
Do a lot of people surf there?
Um, not a ton.
No, it's pretty kind of, it's kind of isolated, but they have, they have
surf camps that go there.
People that only fly there.
It's kind of like, I don't think there's a big crowd there.
Is this one that barrels up on the inside really heavy?
Yes.
Really heavy.
One guy died there like a couple years ago.
What?
Yeah.
How?
Um, we broke his neck so bad that he fucking died.
He got paralyzed when he broke, when he hit the, this guy was a pro, like a fucking
legit pro.
And, uh, he hit his head and broke his neck and he's paralyzed and he drowned.
Damn.
But this is, it is the most perfect fucking right ever.
I am a regular footage, so I'm down.
Yeah, surfing too, man.
I think Jamie O'Brien made a video at this place, at this spot, on his channel.
I'm so happy to be back on a surfboard.
You know, I'm sponsored by Rusty now.
Are you?
Mm-hmm.
Really?
Yeah.
That's cool.
Got the Rusty hookup.
That's awesome.
Do they still make surfboards?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Find on a map, uh, find Baraday La Cruz and find it, uh, on a map.
Let's find out how far it is.
I love Google Earth.
I use Google Earth.
I know, I know.
It's the best, especially for finding surf spots.
You can learn so much about, like, everything.
It's just so much, I don't know.
I was looking at all the volcanoes, like, you ever just gone volcano hopping on Google
Earth, like, gotten lost and, like, gone and, like, you ever just, like, check out
Florida, like, all the different parts of Florida?
Like, I don't know, I kind of want to make videos on my YouTube channel, like, going
on a tour of Florida with, yeah, on Google Earth.
That'd be sick.
That would be dope.
Dude, I found, like, the best cliff jumping spots.
I found 70-foot cliffs in Florida.
Really?
That would exist, yeah.
Dude, there's a, we could make about 100 documentaries driving through the Everglades.
There's so much weird shit, so many, like, weirdos.
There's a guy who has a lodge and he's dedicated to hunting the skunk ape.
Oh, I know, I've been to the Skunk Ape Museum, yeah.
I made a video about it.
Waco.
Yeah, he sells t-shirts in my box.
Yeah.
I own Skunk Ape.
I catch all the drops.
Skunk Ape.
Sounds like an NFT.
He's the boy.
For real.
All right, so that's where it is.
That's where our bar de la cruz is.
Dude, I heard there is a million point breaks on the Mexican Peninsula.
Whoa, Austin, what the fuck are you doing?
Yo, Google Earth is drunk as hell.
Hit the compass, hit the compass.
It's flat.
Oh, no, there it's flat.
There you go, okay.
So how far are we from Cabo?
Cabo is, there it is, Landsat.
Oh, it's not far.
We can go, dude, come to Cabo.
Where is Cabo?
Okay.
Oh, no, Cabo's all the way down.
No, zoom out.
Cabo's the very, very bottom, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, all the way at the bottom.
No, you got to zoom out farther, Austin.
No, that's, yeah, it's up.
Cabo's way up there.
Oh.
Cabo's the very end of that peninsula up there.
Let's keep going, keep going.
Cabo's in the center.
Oh, it's that peninsula.
Okay, okay.
Zoom all the way in.
I'll show you the hotel I'm standing in.
Yeah, keep going.
That little tip, that little point.
Yeah.
Nope, that's not it.
Oh, yeah, it is.
Yeah, it is.
Sorry.
It just looks weird.
What a weird angle.
Keep zooming in.
Go down a little bit.
Yeah, that hotel right there, below the mouse.
The place looks like a fucking desert, huh?
Yeah, it's so sick.
Keep going down and zoom out a little bit.
Yeah, that's the Solmar.
That's where I'm going to be staying.
Yeah, look at that.
Those rocks right there, dude, the skim.
I've seen those videos.
It goes from like 12,000 feet deep to just like shore right there.
Like the mountains meet the ocean and there's somehow a beach.
Like that beach right there is the most beautiful beach
I've ever seen in my entire life.
Type in, type in lovers beach on Google and just click on a picture.
It's insane.
Leave the maps up.
Open a new tab so we can go back to the maps after.
No, no, don't don't close that tab.
Open up a new tab.
There you go.
Now we can go back to the Google Maps and not have to like fuck around.
Yeah, lovers beach, crazy beach.
It's absolutely isn't that it right there?
Yeah, that's it.
But like, I mean, he's looking for actual photos, right?
Yeah, yeah, like look at that on the on the right.
Yeah, I mean, you can kind of get the picture.
Oh, that's sick.
It's absolutely insane.
Yeah, there's Arch Beach.
10 out of 10 would recommend visiting that place some point in your life.
Is there any good surf spots there?
Is it all like zippers?
Zippers is right there.
Yeah.
I mean, Jamie O'Brien came out one year and charged the short break with us.
It was pretty on the surfboard.
Yeah.
But yeah, we got to go to Bar de la Cruz, bro.
Places.
Yeah, last year when I went to Cabo, I probably made my like favorite
skimboarding wave edit of my entire life.
It was really fucking 12 foot maxing.
Cabo, the biggest waves I've ever seen in my life.
Geez, it was so much fun.
Got some beat downs that year.
I'm ready.
When's the next trip?
May.
May.
I'm sponsoring the contest.
Turner's sponsoring the contest.
Apex is sponsoring it.
I'm going to try to get a pretty big pro purse.
You're doing like a legit contest there?
Yeah.
It's the first time since before COVID.
It's been three years since it's a contest there.
And I consider it the gnarliest contest of the year because it's like
nowhere is gnarlier than Cabo for short break.
It's just heavy.
Even more than the wedge.
Wedge is pussy stuff.
Do you skim the wedge?
Yes.
Wedge.
Big wedge?
Yes.
Where's the video?
Let me see this thing.
Oh, that's in the archives.
You're no Brad Domke, okay?
Dude.
Oh, the wedge can't hold a hold.
Click.
The wedge is fucking terrifying.
No, type in.
I made a deadly mistake.
Well, there's no rocks there.
That's the one thing that's not that's not scary about the wedge.
It's just not as powerful.
The wedge is more more like fluttery and more like
it's less thick like it's just really.
Yeah.
And you get stuck in the water at Cabo.
At least at the wedge, you get washed up on the beach in Cabo.
You get fucking stuck.
Oh, it's got to be on YouTube.
What do you mean?
How do you get stuck?
Because you just can't get in.
You get stuck in the you get in the wash.
Type in.
Type in.
I've been a deadly mistake.
Juke squad.
Yeah, that's really thought that come up.
This video went pretty viral shadow band, bro.
Right.
What's going on?
Do do do do do do.
YouTube's clapping me.
There are scary mistakes.
Sorry.
I love like, dude, Mexico.
I just go above and beyond to make the highest quality content possible over here.
You know, so you can skip in probably.
Jesus.
Yeah, I was fucking.
Oh, dude, that thing was gutted.
What is that like wave form?
You can let it play for a second.
There's actually some really good clips.
I guess what I'm talking about, you know, we we do everything we can to make sure
that the Cabo content is top tier.
I like like 50 pounds worth of camera gear and batteries
and tripods and drones out there every single year.
You know, it's got to be so fun.
Just body surfing those waves.
Yeah, or boogie boarding them.
Oh, my God, I would be there.
I would be loving that.
Dude, body-wamping some of this fun shit ever.
Just going out there and swimming.
Yeah, actually, there's I made a full video about that
when it was the biggest I've ever seen.
I can show you some clips of that in a second.
But I'd sponge it.
I would sponge the shit out of that wave to it's gnarly.
Yeah, you can skip in a little bit.
I'm not sure exactly where I haven't watched this video in a while.
But yeah, keep going.
Go to where the big spike is right there.
Oh, yeah, the big spike.
Yeah, that's now it's damn.
It's crazy.
The retention there, huh?
I did not. That's weird, isn't it?
I've never even seen that.
Go to the spikes later.
Oh, it's the ass.
Go like go later in the video to the other spikes.
Yeah, it's like a good combo of big waves and ass there.
Yeah, click there, right there.
Oh, you're trying to catch the cider.
Yeah, into just.
Is there a pretty good little side wash wave there?
It's the gnarliest one that exists.
Is it? Yeah, it's so, so, so gnarly.
Yeah, and this is where I get stuck on the outside.
So.
There is a huge impending swell.
Like it'll be chill for a little bit.
And here, turn the volume up.
Actually, you'll hear my friend start whistling.
Yeah, my buddy's up on the cliff yelling at me, telling me not to come in.
Because I didn't know whether I should come in or not.
Yeah. And.
Yeah, look at this shit.
This wave is so much gnarlier than a wave at the wedge, though.
Like it's just so much.
Look at that thing. Look at how heavy that is.
Oh, yeah, it just sucks up and closes.
Yeah, look at where I am.
Yeah.
How deep is it right there?
Like four feet.
Yeah, but it was like.
God, that's bogeyboard heaven.
Oh, bro.
Death, dude.
I got one of the best ways of my life.
Thank God, it's so fun.
It is so fun.
My arms right off.
Yeah.
Cabo, bro, got to go.
Oh, my God, it's so fun.
That looks amazing.
Yeah, it looks sick.
Well, I think we we hit a wall.
I was like two, two hours, two hours.
Boom, baby.
Metaverse, baby.
Yeah, lucid dreaming.
Everyone should try it.
Lucid dreaming.
The best thing you could get out of this video.
And the shark's teeth.
Yeah.
Well, that's more to come.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you want to come hunt for shark's teeth, just wait till we buy one.
So you guys are going to buy a shit little land and open up a shark's tooth sanctuary?
Yeah, we already got a tractor lined up
because the main thing for for that is we have to make sure the land has teeth on it.
So we're like, hey, if we're going to buy this land, you got to let us come dig a hole.
We got to bring a tractor out to the 10, 20, however many acres it is.
Yeah.
Pop a hole in the ground and check the fossil layer and the deposit and see how it looks.
And I also have an NFT that I'm trying to release soon.
That is going to be 500 unique sharks teeth, 270 of which are Megalodons and Makos.
And if you buy the NFT, the NFT that you get, the tooth that is the NFT, well, it's
going to be unrevealed.
So you're going to have to buy in before you get to see what your tooth is.
But the tooth that you buy is a tooth that we're going to have shipped to you in person.
And the collection is like, I don't know, there's at least $50,000 worth of sharks teeth
in this collection.
Like I'm letting go of some of the nicest teeth that I have for the collection because
I want to buy land and use the money to buy land.
But not only do you get the tooth that you buy as for the NFT, the NFT is your ticket
to come and hunt on a property that we're going to buy using the money from the NFT
project.
Ooh.
That's a sick idea.
Yeah.
So it's your ticket to come.
Not only do you get a tooth, you have the opportunity to come find your own tooth.
That's a super sick idea.
Yeah.
I fucking love that.
So I've been working on that for a couple of months.
I already have all the pictures taken, all the teeth separated, I have a developer working
on the website.
I have my Discord and everything set up.
But 98% of the projects out there right now are dog shit.
Most NFTs have no use whatsoever, they're just cash grabs.
So contemplating the space and being in cryptocurrency since 2017, which is essentially the exact
same thing as NFTs, it's just NFTs have a picture.
There's the whole art aspect and the profile picture aspect of it.
I just never wanted to promote or be a part of a project that I didn't think was genuinely
dope.
So when I came up with the shark's tooth one, I was like, yeah, this is a good way to get
people involved.
We can give people a piece of history, allow them to help us preserve history and even come
and find some history yourself if you want.
So it's just like everyone I've talked to about it's like, yeah, that sounds fucking
awesome.
Super rad idea.
Even if you don't want to buy the NFT, you should root for this project because otherwise
a neighborhood's going to get built there and all the fossils that are there are going
to get destroyed.
There is no fossil conservation whatsoever going on in Florida yet they're allowing Mosaic
to rip apart hundreds of thousands of acres and we can't go hunt for fossils on the spoil
piles there because it's a liability.
So it's just like the whole space, I don't know, they're contributing to the death of
Florida.
They're destroying fossils.
They're not letting us hunt for fossils.
So we're just like, hey, you want to support us?
We're going to buy some acres and you can come hang out with us too.
So like, I don't know, starting small and ideally we'd like to open fossil farms between
here all the way up to South Carolina to where people can keep doing it because I think that
a lot of people are going to want to come and do this once we open these places.
Hell, yeah, they would.
That's a fucking great idea.
Now, where do people find that?
Are you going to post on your YouTube channel?
It'll be on my socials on your channel.
Like I said, I'm not trying to do this to make a bunch of money.
I'm one of the only projects that's actually going to use the money to do something cool
like you'd be able to see us buy the land and first strike ground and start excavating
whatnot.
Yeah, I don't know.
Everybody's out here just trying to.
You should just make it a pump and dump.
Yeah, that'd be super tight, right?
Yeah, make a fuckload of money on the shark's teeth.
At least people get the shark's teeth.
It won't be super ripped off.
Hey, you know, honestly, I'm not worried about the use case afterwards.
I feel like that's just a bonus.
I feel like over time, people who want to come hunt are going to buy up from people that
just wanted the teeth, you know, because obviously once, when we release the project, people
are going to buy it just to get the teeth and then immediately going to try to sell
off the NFT because they have no interest in finding the teeth, but I think it'll be
really cool.
I'm excited about it and I want to take my time and make sure everything's in perfect
order before we release it to the public to make sure, you know, everything works properly
and it is what it is.
See what happens.
Fuck yeah.
Cool, bro.
Well, thanks for doing this.
Boom.
I can't believe Randall Carlson was here.
I'm going to have to check that out.
I can't believe you didn't fucking see it.
I can't believe.
Yeah, watch it.
It was a good one.
Everyone hasn't liked and subscribed yet.
Like and subscribe to the juke squad on YouTube.
No, concrete podcast.
Concrete podcast.
I'm here for this, dude.
Sweet, bro.
Well, thanks again.
I appreciate it.
I'll see you in two and a half years.
See you in the metaverse.
Yeah.
