Some people may think that vision is boring, but in the context of life, is there anything
more important than vision?
I don't think so.
Maybe you could tell people who are listening, give them a brief background on yourself.
What are your credentials and what is your background in vision?
I work with vision.
For the last 40, 45 years, I've been helping people to use their eyes, or rather I use their
eyes to help people train their own brains.
Most of seeing is done with your brain using your eyes, and so in that area, I have spoken
across the world, written in refereed journals, written books.
It's kind of what I do day by day, and I love it.
Vision is something I feel like most people don't even think about or take for granted.
Why did you become so fascinated by vision?
Well, I was actually an English major, and I loved English major because I loved reading,
but I also loved eating.
So I thought maybe I should do something that I could live off of, and so I thought about
optometry.
It wasn't until my third year in school that I had a professor that started talking about
what vision really is about and how it dominates our life and how it changes our life.
At that point, I just got very, very interested in what I was doing and have gone ever since.
At what point did you realize there's more to this than what you thought?
Most people think of vision as how sharply they can see something in a lot, far away,
like with the Snellen chart, they think of, do I have 2020 or not?
Well, I had a child I worked with.
His name was Hal, and it was 50 years ago, so I doubt if he'll be upset.
And Hal was a little boy with a crossed eye.
So he looked quite different than other people, and he's had what's called 2200 vision in
that eye, meaning that he saw at 20 feet what the rest of us can see at 200 feet.
So he had essentially a blind eye.
It was crossed, and I worked with him in the clinic, and we worked with him and worked
with him, and he learned how to straighten his eyes.
He learned how to see 2030, which is more than enough to drive a car.
If that was the only eye he had, he could have driven a car with that eye, whereas before
he was legally blind in the eye.
But we didn't get him to 2020, and his eyes, they looked great, but they weren't completely
straight.
So I went over to his mom, and I said, I'm really sorry that we couldn't do better with
Hal.
We couldn't get there, and she looked at me like I was crazy, and she said, you just
don't understand.
This is the kid that was left on the bench all the time.
He was doing terrible in school.
He completely changed his life, and at that point, I really got it.
That vision is more than reading an eye chart, and it's even more than all the different
tests we do.
Vision is as much, think of your life without vision.
Think of it if you couldn't remember anything you'd seen.
Think of it if you'd never had to move, because your eyes were guiding you to move.
I mean, it would be a very different world.
A really interesting way to put this, which I just recently discovered, which we talked
about briefly before we started recording today, is that a 40% to 50% of the human brain
is dedicated to vision processing, which kind of blew my mind a little bit.
No one attended.
Yeah.
It's pervasive.
It dominates your life.
Everything is hooked into vision.
One way or another, your hands are hooked into your vision.
Your feet are hooked into it.
Your thinking is hooked into it.
Everything that you do is really hooked into your vision in some way or another, and even
more so, you learned how to do all this stuff.
So it's not something that's happening to you.
It's something that you have learned to do a step at a time, like an infant with a mother's
breast.
They're getting affection.
They're getting food.
Their eyes land on things.
They start to learn how to see.
When they enter the world, they're not seeing much of anything.
Now I think one of the pervasive dogmas in science is that there's a certain critical
period when kids are young where they develop vision and other things that sort of goes
away as they age with brain plasticity.
Yeah.
This has been kind of confused.
But it is, there's an area in life where they can lose their ability to see.
It's a critical period, and if during that period, you disturb their eyes somehow, that
can make it harder for them to see.
So let's say a child, you put a patch on a baby, they got a scratched eye, they wear
a patch.
Well, during a critical period, that could severely affect how they use their two eyes
together after that.
So the critical period is really the time when you can mess things up.
You could put a patch on a 50-year-old and leave it on for 10 years.
They're not going to lose vision.
But it's gotten backwards where people look at it, that there's a critical period where
you can learn to see.
And that's not true.
The brain is always plastic.
You can learn to use it.
When I went to school, the brain was cement, and all it did was crumble.
And so you were told that you're the best you're ever going to be when you're younger,
and then it's just going to keep crumbling and crumbling, and it's just going to get
worse and worse.
And now the brain is made out of plastic.
So you can work with it just like Play-Doh, and you can improve your brain pretty much
at any age, which means you can improve your seeing at any age.
Even if somebody, for example, in your example, has a scratched eye as an infant and it affects
their development, it's something that can be changed in later years?
Much of it can.
Now vision, there are different types of vision, and part of it relates to using your eyes
with everything else, using your eyes with your hands, using your eyes with your body,
being able to move.
Every time you move, the pictures on the back of your eyes change, and you have to learn
how movement affects your seeing.
That you can learn at any age.
If you've actually lost cells in the back of your eye or in the back of your brain,
then those may be cells that you can't regain, certain ones, but all of the integrative type
of seeing you can learn as life goes on.
Now, how does vision affect things like intelligence?
Or is there any correlation between vision and intelligence or vision and language, assuming
that all these things are intertwined together?
Well, vision really isn't much different than intelligence.
Now, if you look at a standard intelligence test, they will have areas that they look
at as mainly language.
They might ask you, how are gold and silver alike?
And you say, well, they're both precious metals, or they're both metals, or they both cost
a lot.
That idea how words relate to each other, how they're similar.
So that would be more of a language-based type of intelligence.
But on the intelligence test, there's all sorts of figures that you look at and realize
how they relate to each other.
There are things where you use your eyes to find your place.
So even on a standard intelligence test, like half the test, pretty much centers in on visual
type skills.
And the other half supposedly would center in on language type skills.
So vision, but just in general, intelligence is kind of like analogy.
As you say, this is like that, a cat, a house cat is like a mountain lion.
They have some similarities.
There's kind of an analogy there.
But you have analogies when you use your eyes.
If you've learned how to walk on a sidewalk, and you're very good at walking on a sidewalk,
does that prepare you to walk in sand?
But you are going to make the analogy.
Well, walking on the sidewalk is kind of like walking in the sand.
Well, it is kind of like walking in the sand.
But you've got to relearn how to walk when you get in the sand.
So it's still, this is like that.
Walking on the sidewalk is like walking in the sand, although it's not quite.
So we've got to relearn that, just like the mountain lion is not quite like the house cat.
There are differences.
And so that's all intelligence.
And I mean, there was a book by Jerry Getman years ago as
How to Improve Your Child's Intelligence.
And the whole book, it's available through Optometric Extension Program Foundation.
But the whole book is about using vision to improve intelligence.
Wow.
So the two of them are very, very linked.
How come nobody talks about this, especially eye doctors?
Well, eye doctors, the job is different.
The job is to find out if you can see clearly in the, in the distance.
And the, or if you need glasses to see clearly,
and to make sure each of your eyes is healthy.
So there's nothing going on with your eyes that could cause you to go blind.
And once they've done that, so you can see clearly and maybe up close,
they would have to have you see clearly.
So once they've got you seeing clearly up close and far away,
meaning little things, close and far away.
And they know there's nothing showing up in your eyes that shows you have a brain tumor
or that you're going to go blind.
Any of these types of things, after they've ruled all of that out, their job is done.
Okay.
They're not really thinking about.
Improvement.
Vision like I am.
I'm thinking about vision is you.
Vision is all of you.
It is your hands.
It is your body.
It is your thinking.
All of this gets hooked into how you use your brain.
And that is vision and vision.
You take light and you convert it into action.
That's the whole visual process.
Light enters the eye and all of a sudden you're able to act.
You're able to catch that ball.
You're able to read that book.
All of these actions are part of vision.
Back to talking about how much of the vision, the brain is involved in vision.
I didn't realize that the rods and the cones and the retinal neurons
in the brain take up more metabolic energy than any other cells in the body,
which is, again, just points to how important vision really is.
It's not just seeing numbers on an eye chart.
It literally is your whole entire consciousness.
We ask all sorts of different questions on our case history,
but one of them, and we see a lot of kids, probably 80% of our patients are children.
And one of the questions on there is your child exhausted at the end of the day.
Because if you have visual interference,
you're just completely wiped out after a day at school.
Not just kids.
I mean, I had a banker once.
He was a teller and he would go home at night at five o'clock and he'd just go to bed.
He was just wiped out and we had worked with him.
And now he was playing basketball when he got home.
Oh, wow.
So before he had a lot of trouble using his eyes,
he was putting on an intense amount of energy and to just focusing and keeping things clear
and keeping him single.
He was working so hard at it, it just completely ruined his life at that point.
And his life just completely changed when now he goes home and gets dressed.
He plays basketball with his friends.
He has a life.
Otherwise, your eight hours ends up your whole day.
Your eight hours extends from morning until night.
The part of this whole conversation that aligns with learning and energy and maintaining focus
during the day is really interesting when it comes to things like dyslexia.
Could you explain like how many of your patients come to you for quote unquote dyslexia?
And what is dyslexia?
Okay, we'll back that one up and we'll start with what it is.
What dyslexia is is that you have somebody who's bright
and they're reading us a lot harder than it should be based on how bright they are.
And they're not blind and they're not deaf and they went to school in a normal school
and they just had a hard time learning to read even though they were very smart.
Most kids, they teach themselves how to read.
You give them the letters of the alphabet and the sounds.
You might give them Dick and Jane before they start getting a few words that they know.
And they figure out the rest, okay?
They, through the years, they just figure out kind of how to read.
They start reading and that could be like three-fourths of your kids are going to do that.
Now that fourth that don't do that, those would be the ones we call dyslexics.
So for some reason, they're not learning to read as you'd expect.
That you read to them and they understand it easily.
They may be great at math, but when it comes to reading, they just really have a hard time.
Now in that group, you have some that don't hear the words, okay?
So if I were to say the word, say scat, child says scat.
Now I say, say it again, but don't say, and he says, at, okay?
He didn't hear there was a stream of sound.
He didn't hear there was an S sound, a C sound, an A sound, a T sound.
Instead, he heard, he heard just a stream of sound that all ran together.
He couldn't pull it apart and recognize it had parts.
So if you had trouble like that, you're going to have a hard time learning with phonics.
And that traditionally, when we hear the word dyslexia, that's what people are talking about,
that inability to kind of match the symbols on the page with the sounds.
So if you're not getting the sound, so that would be one reason for dyslexia.
Other kids, when they read the letters, they just take forever.
If you just, it wouldn't matter if they're looking at letters or numbers or colors.
If they have to look at it, remember what to call it and get it out of their mouth.
It takes forever, okay?
So this is another group of kids that would probably be called dyslexic.
They have that hard time, they call it automatic naming.
They can't look at something and remember what to call it and getting it out.
It's kind of like seeing somebody you know and not remembering their name, okay?
It just takes a lot to pull it out.
So that group would be kind of dyslexic.
Kind of like they process each word?
Yeah, they just, they have, they're very slow at processing, okay?
And a lot of them have both those things going on.
They don't hear the sounds, takes forever to get out of their mouth.
So those to me are kind of your real dyslexics when they have that.
Now you do have people that supposedly see backwards, okay?
And they always are calling B's, D's and W's for saw, this type of thing.
Right.
Well, when you're little, you have two directions.
You have, it's either towards me or it's away from me.
It's this way or it's that way.
Then you get into, and it's a chair.
Let's say you see a chair in a room.
It doesn't matter where you're looking at that chair.
It's always a chair, right?
You don't say, oh, that's a different chair.
No, it's the same chair.
It doesn't matter how you look at the chair.
Then you get into school in this two-dimensional world.
And now if the chair fits one way, it's a B, well, a B.
And the other way, it's a D, okay?
So you got a line in the circle.
And for the little kid, it goes this way.
It goes out to the sides.
For as you get older, you start to say, no, it goes over here or it goes over there.
So you have children, developmentally, they haven't figured out which way is which.
They don't recognize that it'd be in a D or even a different letter.
It's a line.
It has a little circle on it and the circle goes outward.
And as far as they're concerned, it's the same thing.
They don't know which way to go when they read.
Instead of always starting here on the left and going to the right,
they start on the right and they go to the left.
So that would be most traditionally when you hear the word dyslexia,
you know, it's like, well, they see backwards.
So that's the one that's most common that you hear about.
Now to me, that's a vision problem.
You don't understand where the world is yet.
You're lost on where are things.
And so that type of thing is going to respond to a therapy where you learn first
how to tell which side is which.
You'd learn it on yourself.
This is my right hand.
This is my left foot.
And later on, you'd learn it like, well, if I turn that way, I'm turning right.
And if I turn this way, I'm turning left.
Okay, they'd start to understand that right over here
is different than left, which is over that way.
And now they're ready to understand to be in a D.
Otherwise these kids, you know, sometimes they spend a whole year on B and D and they get nowhere
because they didn't have the lower level skills.
It's like everything else.
It's like climbing a ladder.
If you skip four or five rungs, it can be hard.
Okay.
Right.
So they bottom up.
And so that would be dyslexia.
And then you have kids that we work with that see the words blur and we'll get into this,
but they see the words blur in and out.
They see them run together.
They can read the acuity chart.
They read one letter at a time and they read all the little tiny letters across the room.
And yet they see the words dancing around on the page.
They run around.
They run into each other.
They won't stand still.
This kind of stuff.
Well, that could be thought of as dyslexia.
If you were a dyslexia specialist, you wouldn't know that was going on.
Okay.
So when we look into that, now I'd look at that problem being primarily visual
as opposed to the, I can't hear the word scat and realize it's made up of a bunch of sounds.
I would think of that one as being more language based.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then all of us, if we don't know what the words mean, of course we get confused.
Right.
Obviously.
Okay.
And that's, that's a different thing.
The idea in dyslexia, they should know what the words mean.
In other words, intelligence and everything in language was all fine.
They know what the words mean.
They just have all of these decoding problems.
And how many adults or older people do you get with coming into you to see you with dyslexia
and reading problems?
Our majority is kids.
We will get adults typically when they are about to get a promotion
and they know now they're going to have to do more reading.
Okay.
They change jobs and for some reason they're going to need to know more reading.
Now, when we talk about vision, I say how important it is.
Most people run their life around their vision.
Okay.
If you have trouble looking at things and so that reading is difficult, you can't
comfortably sit there and look at it.
So you get away from it.
You don't like to read.
Well, you go into sales.
And you know, I mean, it's like I sometimes tell parents, if I work with your child,
they can make 60,000 a year as a librarian.
And if I don't work with them, they'll make 120,000 in sales, you know?
It's like smart kids, smart people, they're going to be successful one way or the other.
But it'll be a different way if that looking at the print is difficult.
And so they will move their life around their vision.
They will develop in a way that fits the vision.
If they're smart, they'll figure out a different way around it.
They'll become a building contractor.
They'll do fine as a lifestyle.
It'll be great for them.
But it won't be something that requires a lot of reading.
You probably aren't going to want to be a lawyer.
Right.
There's a large percentage of the American population that is myopic, meaning nearsightedness.
Is it a problem that the majority of the population is becoming myopic?
It's another one of those idiopathic illnesses, an illness that's diagnosed by an idiot.
We don't really know exactly for sure yet why people become nearsighted.
Nearsighted means what you can't see far away.
We have a picture somewhere where it shows an eyeball.
Well, the eyeball, if you're nearsighted, the eyeball is just too long.
This picture?
Here we go.
Yeah.
So it says pupil up there in the front.
Well, that's that little black hole in the front of your eye.
And you look at it and it's black.
Now, the reason it isn't all red, like the back of that eye,
is because nobody's home.
Nobody has the light on.
And if you take a cheap flash and you flash it at somebody,
it bounces off.
The light bounces off the back of their eye and their pupils are bright red.
So that's like the back of the eye.
It's that kind of red look.
Okay.
And so it goes through.
That's why it turns red.
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
And that's why when you have a photographer, they hold the flash over to the side,
so that it doesn't bounce right back out of the eye.
Then behind that pupil, there's a lens, which is just like a magnifying glass.
So if you wanted to burn a hole in a leaf or a fly,
you would have to hold the magnifying glass in just the right spot
for all of the light to converge and burn the hole.
Okay.
Well, in the eye, the light converges to the back of the eye.
Okay.
So it goes through that lens and it converges and lands right on the back of the eye,
where it says fovea back there, retina, all those things.
They're just the back of the eye.
Is the fovea directly behind the pupil?
Or it looks like the optic nerve is kind of more directly behind it.
You're using the fovea to see.
Okay.
That's where you're pointing the eye.
And I don't know if it's just this picture that's set up like that.
That fovea has a million nerve fibers.
And these are the, when people think of the nerves in the eye,
like the cells in the eye of rods and cones.
And the cones are being the ones that focus on the sharpness.
Yeah.
You get a lot more cones, color vision, all that kind of stuff in that foveal area.
And then you do in there peripheral retina because like we're color blind over to the side.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Which is again, you doing vision.
If you think about it, if you were to look at a red wall,
you don't notice that it ain't red over way over to the side.
It all looks red.
Okay.
So we see what's there.
We've seen what we've learned to see there.
Not what the backs of our eyes tell us, but going back to nearsightedness.
The light comes in and it gets focused in front of the back of the eye.
So rather than focusing on the eye, it focuses behind it.
The eye is too long for whatever reason.
Okay.
Now the current theories, one of the theories is that sunlight helps the eyes
Yes.
I've heard this.
Not get too long, okay.
That if you're out in the sun four hours a day, kids who were out in the sun four hours a day
were far less likely to become nearsighted early than the ones who weren't.
So we don't know if you're nearsighted because your whole world is up close.
And there's certainly a lot of thinking like that.
If you're red all the time, you'd get nearsighted.
If you looked up close all the time, you'd adapt to that distance.
But on the other hand, do you read out?
How many people read outside?
How many people are in the sun when they read?
So again, it's how it all fits together.
What part of it is natural sunlight?
What part of it is this cramped up close distance where you don't move your body at all?
You're still, you're looking at a fixed distance rather than all over the place.
You're there for long periods of time.
It's all up close.
So all of these factors.
But what happens when we landed men on the moon?
About 25% of America was nearsighted.
And by the time 9-11 came along, it was 48% of America was nearsighted.
Now in Singapore, 90% of the population is nearsighted.
And these are kids that are like inside studying.
I mean, I have a niece in Vietnam and she goes to school, you know,
eight, 10 hours a day.
And then she has a tutor for two or three hours a day.
So it's like there's this compulsion to succeed.
And so you have people, huge, huge, huge amounts of up close time
and huge amounts of nearsightedness.
And the thing is moving here in the United States as well.
And so we're putting, you know, two-year-olds, three-year-olds on little close devices
inside, not playing, not running around, seeing how to figure out how to see the world.
But just looking at a flat screen.
Yeah, everywhere you go.
Whether you're waiting in line at a grocery store or sitting at a red light,
just looking around at the different cars that are sitting around you,
they're all staring at their phones.
Right. So you're seeing this great up close thing, but you're not getting the action you do.
Right. The body's not involved.
Yeah. We learned to see.
Okay. If you looked at me, you already know how much effort it would take to get to me.
You know how you would have to move around the table.
You know what it would feel like if you tweak my nose.
You know what it would be like to pull my hair.
You know all of this information because you've done all this kind of stuff your whole life,
and you've learned how to see through all of your movement.
Now you put a kid on a screen, are they putting pans and pots?
Are they learning how all these things fit together?
Are they learning how to pull wagons?
Are they learning how to do all of the other things that teach them to see?
Or are they learning how to sit there immobile, staring at colors on a screen?
So when we get into what vision is, we'll get more into that, but it is kind of a frightening
prospect. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor,
Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed I am
with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on this show is
nutritional scientist and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this
stuff. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into
products that hold a potential to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate these
zombie cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie cells
infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss,
wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy,
meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with new ones.
Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a powerful blend of
cynolytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes like autophagy and
apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation and natural
cardioprotective functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermidine, lutolyn, and dihydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth
and proliferation, specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order. I linked it all below. Now back to the show.
And you're going to see a bunch of kind of awkward kids, physical therapists talk about it,
where they don't have the skills that they had a half dozen years ago.
Did humans look different a half dozen or a dozen or 20 or 30, 50 years ago compared to
how they look now just if you think just from the time the iPhone came out, which was like what
2007 2006, if you go a couple decades before that, could is there a noticeable difference
in people's like their their eyeballs or the way they're their faces are structured?
I don't know about the faces. Okay. Okay. I only have eyes for you, right? Okay. So I mean, like
when I say that I mean like how close the eyes are positioned versus how far apart on their faces
they are. As far as I know, there shouldn't be any different in that. Okay. If you had eyes
that were very far apart, you do have to work more to converge them to look up close. And that's
always been known. But just the average is on those types of things. I don't think you're going to
see too much of a change. Although you've seen huge changes in people themselves.
They're a lot bigger than they were a few generations back when nutrition wasn't as good.
Oh, yeah. So they're bigger. Yes. They're taller. So from that standpoint, the distance
between their eyes is probably a little different too. If they're if their bone structure has grown,
and I don't know, that's just a guess. You really have to have the figures and look at them.
Yeah. Just thinking about the way people looking back to like the times of antiquity
compared to the way they look now, like people are definitely changing. Bodies are different. People
aren't as muscular. Their heads are getting bigger. And one thing I haven't really paid
attention to is like the way their eyes look. But people definitely looked different back then
than the way they look now. And it makes me wonder what people are going to look like in 100 years
from now if we keep going the way we're going with technology staring at our phones up close
all day long and sitting inside not getting sunlight all day long. Like what do we look
like in 100 years, I wonder. Yeah. It's hard to say because like if you were thinking about a
straight genetic type of thing, then you would kind of think, well, the genes are the same.
But then on the other hand, the fact that you have a gene doesn't mean you're using it. And so
more genes start to be expressed. So even nearsightedness, that could, you think of Darwin and
you think of Lamarck when you think of evolution. These changes over time. And in the one view,
you don't inherit. If I become a great violin player, you're not going to inherit that.
Okay. Right. But on the other hand, if I did an awful lot of up close stuff and it's flipped the
switch to where I was nearsighted, now my child could have that same switch flipped. And they
could be nearsighted too. In other words, you have all the genes, some of them are used,
some of them aren't. The genes don't change, but at least not quickly, but which genes are used
can change. Right. Does that make sense? It does make sense. So an example would be like if I
have the gene to be nearsighted and I decide to activate that gene by just only reading books and
looking at my phone all day for my entire life, there's a higher chance of that gene being engaged
in my kid. Yeah. Really? That would be called epigenetics. And that could be happening. But
as I say, this is, you know, a pathology diagnosed by an idiot. We just, we really just don't know.
Okay. On how all of that works and tremendous amounts of research is going into this now,
just because the more nearsighted you are, the more likely you'll run into eye problems later
in life. Okay. Really? There's a bigger chance you'd have glaucoma and so forth. So it's not
to an advantage to have people way, way, way nearsighted. You're more likely to have the back
of your eye disengage or they call it retinal attachment, but have the back of your eye kind
of not stay attached to the back of your eye like it should be. These types of things, the
incidents of them increase when people are more and more nearsighted. So it would be
a big advantage to be three units of nearsighted rather than seven. Right. There's actually,
there's a guy who is a professional video game player who says I'm from his computer and competes
online. And when he was, I believe like in his like late teens, he had a retinal detachment,
had to go like get a major surgery done. He almost lost his vision completely in that eye.
But to think that your retina could become detached just from playing video games is kind
of frightening. Well, it wouldn't be attached from the video games, but if that sitting inside
all day long, engaged up with close, whatever caused it, that caused you to become more nearsighted,
then you're more at risk for problems as you get older. So now there is a big, big emphasis on
trying to figure out what's going on. When I went to school 50 years ago,
nearsightedness was hereditary period. You were like kind of booed off the stage if she said no,
this is a functional problem. It's how we're using our eyes that's causing this. They'd look at you
like you're crazy. It's like, oh, you guys are just weird. This is a genetic thing. You can show
that if parents have it, their kids are more likely to have it. Identical twins are more likely to
both be nearsighted and so forth. Now, I don't think anybody would tell you that nearsightedness
is all hereditary, especially since entire populations have gone from next to nobody
nearsighted to everybody nearsighted within a century type of thing.
So the majority of eye doctors, when you go and see an eye doctor, they're going to worry about
your quote unquote acuity and how well you can see the Stelen chart, like we discussed earlier.
And if there's looking in your eyes, see if there's tumors or whatever, the structure of your eye,
all of the top level stuff, the low hanging fruit. What sort of attention is given to
stereo vision? Not a lot. Okay. And the attention we give it is
not necessarily all there is to it. There are different types of stereo tests. Okay, stereo.
I think it means solid and solid seeing. Things look more solid when you use both eyes to look
at them. There's more volume to them. There's, um, so stereoscopic vision is this solid saying
it's seeing the world in a different way. But what it really is, is seeing the distance between
things more. So like, if you were looking at me, I've got a mic here, but if I put my hand here
and you cover an eye, so go ahead and cover an eye. Good. Now, so you're looking at my hand. So
what's closer to you, my arm or my chest? Your arm. No brainer, right? Right. Now uncover it.
You may be able to see more air. Yes, I can see the gap. There's more air in there. That is stereoscopic
vision. That's two eye depth perception. Okay. And in a typical exam, not a lot of emphasis is
placed on that in your average practitioner. Some might do one test on that. But even that
wouldn't tell you as much because there's different types of, of stereo. I've written a paper on it,
but it's like you have relative stereo. So like if I put my fingers up here of one closer than the
other, being able to see that this one's closer than that one is kind of a relative thing. Being
able to see how far away I am from you is something quite different. So to know where a car is, for
instance, is a lot different than knowing if it's rear view mirror or side mirror is closer to you.
You don't pay any attention to that. You don't care if the rear view mirror or the side mirror is
closer. You do care how close that car is to you. And if that distance is getting less, well,
that big seeing, that big stereo, that awareness of space in the world isn't something we'd normally
test for. In fact, we don't even have a good test for it. I mean, we almost infer it from
other tests if you're doing off the wall test. Now, would you say this stereo seeing the things
you're describing are more or less important than what's tested at a typical eye doctor on a
snel and chart? Like the acuity, what's more important? I feel they're more important,
because that's what you do in the world. If you have that kind of stereo, when you look at something,
you simultaneously know what it is and where it is. So like, I'll look right into this camera,
if whoever's looking at me were to look right at my nose, can you see how pointed my nose is?
Now, instead, if you were thinking about the distance between you and your screen,
there's a certain amount of air between you and your screen, that is, you now know where the
television or the monitor is at the same time that you're seeing me. And so many people,
and think about it, when you talk to somebody, sometimes all you're seeing is their face.
You're not seeing where they are in the room. You're not opening up and simultaneously seeing
where things are and what they are. You're just seeing what they are. And all of our tests as
eye doctors, they're all, what is it tests? They're not where is it tests? They very seldom do tests
to figure out if you're very good at knowing where things are in the world. They want to know
that you can see what they are. What are those little letters on that eye chart? Okay. And one
of the reasons they want to know, you can see the little letters because if you can, that kind of
rules out a lot of eye problems. If you can't see them, you could have a tumor in the back of your
eye. You could be nearsighted. You could have the lens in your eye could be cloudy. There could be
all these different things going on that are making you not see the little things. Okay.
And so the fact you don't see them, then the red light goes on and it says, well, something's up
here. We need to figure out what it is. Okay. So, and we don't call it a Q and D deficit disorder.
Okay. We say, you've got a cataract. Right. You've got glaucoma. Yes. You've got something. You've
got an actual physical type of disease and that's for eye care. And when eye care pretty much stops
at the back of the eye, not always. If you had inflammation of your nerve, the nerve that comes
out of the back of the eye, then, you know, that's definitely going to make it harder to see. And
that's further up. If you had a brain tumor, it could make it hard to see. It could, you could
lose half your vision. You could have all sorts of types of problems with that. So, so any eye
doctor is going to be thinking about all of those things and they get some signs of it. He's not
seeing well. Why isn't he seeing well? They look in the back of your eye and the back of your eye is
perfect and you're still not seeing well. Well, why is that? Was it that way two years ago? No,
two years ago, he saw fine. Well, now we got something that's happening now. So we're worried
about that. So those, they have big concerns and there's very important and I'm not underestimating
that because I don't even do general eye care at this point. I do just enhancement of seeing.
Um, and, but those, those are all very important things. That is what they're looking for.
What they're not looking for is how do you use your eyes? Right. Okay. Um, and as we move along
more on what vision is, um, right now we've been kind of centering on a routine eye exam. It might
be a good idea to look in a cutie chart even. Yeah. Can we pull up a snowing chart? Yeah.
I think it's the first slide. Yeah. One of the things that's always that has fascinated me so
much is that so many people walk about the world and see the world as they see it. But how do you
know if that's the best you can do? How do you know if that's what the world really is? Like
everybody sees the world in their own way. And I always wonder what percentage of everyone you see
walking down the street sees this inflated depth filled 3d world and what percent of them
are just seeing like flatness. I think if you were talking about optometrists like myself,
um, most of them don't see that inflated three dimensional world. Um, most of them see in a
different way because they got very good at that flat screen. They're very good at a flat
computer screen. They're very good at a flat book. They have, um, driving at night when it's raining
and the line has disappeared knowing where you are on the road might be more of a concern,
but they're very good at reading and looking up close because they've had to do that to get
through school. Right. So they've learned to see in a different way. Um, they're not hitting
fastballs on average. Right. And a lot of the bigger type of seeing they would have a tougher time
with, but they would never be aware of it. Um, cause I mean, I've seen both ways. And once you've
seen in that big three dimensional way of seeing, you realize, Oh, that's very different than the
way the world normally looks. Another thing I've noticed is that if you look at the eye, I don't
know if this is kind of like a very nitpicky thing, but if you look at the eyes of people like
famous quarterbacks like Tom Brady or Michael Jordan, they kind of almost look like wall
eyed. Like their eyes like rest on the very corners of their like that's outside portion of
their eyes. And I imagined like to see an entire football field and like thread and needle with
a football requires a very, very high level of three dimensional vision. Well, if your eyes are
further apart, you would have on average better three dimensional vision. Okay. Because
when you're looking this way, this eyes view is very different than the other eyes view.
I don't know. Do you want to know a little more about that type of three dimensional vision?
It takes a second. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. If you were to put your hand up in front of you,
like I've got my hand in front of me. Okay. Okay. And I'll get it a little over. Now,
if I cover one eye, I get one picture. And if I cover another eye, I get another picture.
Right. It's a different picture. And when I open both eyes,
there is a three dimensional picture. Okay. I, it sometimes helps if you just think about
looking past it even, but anyway, if each eye has a different view and the fact like, especially if
I spread my fingers like this, now one eye's seeing this and the other eye's seeing kind of a line
of fingers. Right. And yet when both eyes are open, there's all this air in between the fingers.
Okay. The reason that's there is because each eye has its own view. So the further your eyes are
apart, the more different those two views are, the more pronounced that type of thing is. Because
it's also harder to use your eyes together. Right. Right. So there are pluses and minuses,
but I mean, that type of thing. Now, if you have somebody who actually has an eye that turns out
like a wall eye, many of these people can see where they're looking and also have it clear over here.
They feel like they're looking out of say your left eye, but things are clearer over here. It's
great if you're a kid, you know, you can like keep an eye on mom and when she's not looking,
you can pick your nose, you can do anything you want and you can catch her. Right. Right. And
then you wonder why they don't like straightening their eyes. They start getting caught. So it's like
that is an adaptation that can occur to where a person sees simultaneously with each eye,
but in two different directions at once. And so that is a different thing. And they're
basketball players. They don't come, names come to mind, but you'll see pictures of them sometimes
when they're on that court, they know where everything is on the court and the eye is actually
out. I've seen pictures of that. Where the eyeball is like one eye is out, one eye is out, where they
actually have what's called strabismus, both eyes don't point in the same spot at the same time,
but they actually have the eye out. Now basketball, no one where everything is on the court. It's a
big, big, big, big deal. Okay. If you want to know where the rim is, it would help to point
both eyes at it, but professional players, they play off feel anyway. They know where they are
on the court. They know how to get the ball through the basket from that position in the court.
Okay. Right. They are hooked into that court. If you were to change the shape of the court,
make it a trapezoid, you'd probably really screw them up because they're used to
knowing where their body is on the court compared to where they're going to looking. So they're
seeing what their body as well as their eyes. Okay. And all this happens. But anyway, so on the
depth perception, again, it's just that one eye sees a different picture than the other.
Your mind takes those two different pictures. It fuses them together. It melts them together
into this three-dimensional picture that has more depth than it. Right. But of course,
we all see three dimensions. I mean, we all see depth. Everybody sees depth. It's like,
when I put my arm in front of my chest, what's closer? My arm or my chest? Your arm is closer
because it's in front of my chest. And there are all these different one-eyed ways of knowing
where things are. Okay. Right. Like things being bigger and smaller. Shadows. The shadows. If you,
you know, if you look at a stool, you'll see all of the shadows on it. You turn the lights down,
the shadows all disappear. Right. So these people that have eyes that aren't working together when
it comes to driving at night, they just have all the hard time because you took away all the one-eyed
ways of knowing where things are. Can you pull up a picture of Tom Brady's face, like a close
above his face, letting me look far away? We can look at that. So what we're going to talk about
with this chart right here. Okay. So here we have an acuity chart. So if you are, if you have a hammer,
everything in the world is a nail. And if you have an acuity chart, everything in the world
is a fraction or everybody in the world is a fraction. Okay. You're supposed to see there's
that line of letters above the red line and you're supposed to see those at 20 feet. Because a
scientist in the middle of the 1800s calculated how big the back of your eye was and how big the
everything was in it, all the receptors and everything. And he came up to try to see that.
And so that is 20, the 20 foot line, people who have normalized supposedly see that line at 20
feet. Okay. We're about 20 feet now, right? Maybe a little bit closer. Close enough. But anyway,
now, if you go up a bit, then you get to the 20, 40 line. I think it's two lines up, EDF,
C, CP, yeah, above the green. Most people see that line at 40 feet. Okay. If you have to move up
to 20 feet to see what everybody else sees at 40 feet, then you have 20, 40 vision. So you typically,
you can drive with 20, 40 vision in most states. In Georgia, it's 20, 60. So if you can't drive
anywhere else, come to Georgia. You're all set. Are there more car accidents in Georgia?
I would doubt it because driving has much more to do with knowing where things are than what they
are. Okay. Okay. That makes sense. I mean, you might not see a little person. Right. But for the
most part, driving is all about knowing where everything is compared to everything else and
being able to predict where everything is, where you see something moving and you know where it's
going to be. And those things aren't nailed by an acuity chart. Those are all where is it type
things. But the acuity chart will tell you if you can read the street signs, which is big if you're
in a, in a new area, if you can't read the signs on the road, you're in trouble if you go into a
strange area. If you're driving right around close to home, you don't need to see the signs
because you already know where you are. Right. Okay. But they're different things. But so anyway,
20, 40, you see at 20 feet, what everybody else sees at 40, you go up to that top letter,
that's a 2200 letter, meaning that most people see that 200 feet away. If you have to move up to
20 feet to see it, then you have 2200 vision. What is considered legally blind? Okay.
What we normally think of when people hear legally blind, they say, I'm legally blind without my
glasses. Right. Well, that isn't how it works. If you can see the 2200 letter with your glasses on,
and that's the best you can do, you're legally blind. How you see without your glasses doesn't
say anything. Okay. Okay. That makes sense. When you put your glasses on, you still can't see
anything, then you could be legally blind, but it would be the 2200 is the smallest that you're
seeing. Okay. Okay. And so that's your acuity chart. And so people will say, I have perfect vision,
I have 2020 vision, and that's good. But most people actually have 2015 vision, which is the line
underneath the red line. Okay. So most people are able to see that line at 20 feet.
And if they only see 2020 at 20 feet, then you kind of wonder why not 2015? Okay. If you're an eye
doctor. Okay. Okay. In the bottom lines of 2010 line, and I have quite a few kids that can pull out
half of those letters in that 2010 line, most of us have to move up to about 10 feet to see it.
Some people can see it at 20 feet, like Ted Williams was famous for his 2010 vision. So Ted
Williams was one of the best hitters in baseball, which means he failed two thirds of the time.
Right. Which made him one of the best. Okay. And he famously had 2010 vision,
and which means he could see the tiny, tiny things, but he did more than that. He knew
where the ball was. Right. That seems like it'd be way more important. So when I work with ball
players, they're both important. You want to be able to see the seams on the ball because that
tells you if you've got a curve ball or you've got whatever. Okay. But at the same time, you've got
to know where the ball is, and you've got a two tenths of a second to figure that all out.
And the more information you take in in that two tenths of a second, visually,
the better off you're going to do, all other things being equal.
At what point do they see the seams on the ball before it's thrown, you mean?
I think it's while it's just as it's leaving the hand. Okay. Okay. Okay.
We're there. They're watching it right then. But so when we work with ball players, we want
them to be able to see tiny, tiny, tiny, but we also want them to be able to see big, big, big.
We want them to be aware of all the space between them and the picture so that they get that big
picture. At the same time, they're getting the little one doing both of those at once.
And I have a batting coach and he always sends me his kids that don't bat like they should.
Basically, he knows how to do all the other stuff. Right.
And so he's done all of the different things. And then if they're having the types of problems,
he'll recognize it because he's worked with so many of them with me. He just recognizes
how they act when they're not seeing quite right. So people who are playing sports who don't
necessarily see the ball correctly or don't, they don't, they aren't able to react fast enough,
is that a problem with them not seeing big? Oftentimes, that's part of it. You have to
be able to see big and little at the same time. You have to be able to see where things are.
Well, it depends on the sport. I'm basketball. Yeah. Okay. Right. That gets really panoramic.
But in vision, you're more interested in baseball. You're more interested in the
distance between you and what you're looking at than you are and what's going on in the stands.
Right. Okay. You can just imagine some of the nasty things that have been said,
the ballplayers over the years. Oh, yeah. And you don't need to be zeroed in on that.
You need to be zeroed in. But the distance between you and what you're looking at is important.
And what kind of things can people do in sports? What kind of things do ballplayers do
to sort of gain that extra sense of panoramic vision and as well as small vision at the same
time? Well, one thing they don't do is they don't sit there and think about what people said about
them. Right. In other words, you lose your big sense of space when you go inward. So if I have
a patient, let's say I have some gadget on the wall and it's floating off the wall. If I were to
tell that patient, oh, you locked your keys in the car. That thing that was floating off the
wall will go flat. In other words, they'll lose their sense of space when they introvert, when
their attention goes inward. They lose the world out here, which is one of the reasons the kids come
in and they look like, and they leave and they look like they're like out in the world. Right.
Because they come in and they're kind of beat up feeling and they're inward. And then as they get
better with their vision of seeing the world in front of them, their attention goes outward.
It's like people with panic attacks. Yeah. If you can get them to open up and see
the big spaces, it kind of pulls them out of it. Okay. Because the panic attacks, you're all inside.
We've been around a long time. A lot of bad things have happened to us, you know, starting
with birth. Yeah. And then it only got worse. Sometimes it seems like. And so all of that's
just sitting there waiting to beat you up. So as you learn to get your attention, your visual
attention outward, then you get out of that garbage. Okay. I imagine that's a huge problem
with people like coming up to bat during baseball. That's got to be a huge, with all everyone's
eyes, everyone in the game is focused on you. It's like, well, that's just it. They have to learn
to be where they are. In other words, they can't be where they're not. They can't be thinking about
something else. Yes. They have to have full attention out in space in front of them. So it's
like the coach would, it sends these kids, he'll tell me, you know, he says, yeah, this kid,
he just gets wiped out. You know, somebody says something to him, he gets upset. Boom,
you lose it all. Can't hit anything. Okay. So it's a matter of learning to concentrate. And
even Ted Williams, he said that he really looks hard there. It's a certain thing he does. It's
a way of seeing for him. He had the 2010 vision, but he did something with his eyes when he was
batting. And he knew what he knew he was doing something. Okay. But he didn't know exactly what?
Well, there's language. So no telling. How are you seeing right now? You know,
what are you going to tell me on the average? Okay. And I've been talking about seeing a big
area as opposed to selecting a small area. We're going to get into that quite a bit
with a lot of regular examples on the screen. For now, that is pretty much meaningless here. If
you're hearing it, you've seen space yourself. So you know, you know, because we talked about it,
and you see that big air, you see all that space. Somebody who's never seen it has no idea what
we're talking about right now. Okay. They just think these are just a bunch of words. If there's a
hole in your perception, there is a hole in your language. You have no words to describe it.
I've tested this on my wife, who has perfect, nothing wrong with her vision. She has perfect
eyes. I've done some tests on her with some of the stuff that I've messed around with. And she
she flunks almost every three dimensional test. It's okay. She's probably done some tests on you.
You're not aware. And I am aware of, I've flunked a lot of her tests. Yeah, there you go. There's
no double standards over here. Yeah. But it's, it was fascinating to me how somebody like her who
has no, no, oh, at least that she's aware of no issues with her vision. She fails all the three
dimensional tests. Yeah. So it's, it's always hard to say it could be somebody that sees
in an expanded way all the time and doesn't even know what it's like to not see that way.
Or it could say be somebody who sees in a non-expanded way all the time and has no guess what
you're talking about when you talk about seeing things. You're never quite sure. And that's,
we'll get into it, but have you noticed, you don't know what other people are saying.
Have you noticed a correlation between people who are introverts and extroverts versus like
myopic or farsighted or three dimensional or not? As far as I know, the studies are all over the
place on that. Certainly what were you like when you became nearsighted? In other words,
like before you mean? Yeah. Cause it's kind of like if you're working with some extroverted sales
person who went nearsighted when they were in third grade and, and that's when they went nearsighted
and they haven't changed in 10 years, well, they're still nearsighted, but they may be extroverts.
Their attention may be out all of the time. Okay. At this point in life. Okay. Right. You know,
so you can't, so that's a hard question on that. In general, though we do work on that extroverting
people when we work with vision, let's say you got two lines and you're wearing a pair of glasses
and one eye sees this line and one eye sees this line and those lines line up when your eyes are
straight. When your eyes kind of turn a little, the lines do this. Well, the very fact that you're
watching the lines to line them up and how it feels, it puts your attention out there. You're
looking at what's going on out there and so it gets you out of your head. And so even if you
weren't even thinking about it, it's still something you're doing when you're doing vision therapy,
you are extroverting people. That's amazing. And the kids come in all the time, as I say,
they're like looking in the inside of their head. They're just like,
instead of where they go out and you can see the before and after pictures.
Oftentimes you can just see you've got a different kid. And that's oftentimes what parents are
talking about. They say, I have a different kid. They're very happy. It's not like they lost,
it's not like a medication that takes away from them. They can still be crappy if they want to be
and they always are once in a while, but they act very differently. And I had a lady once her
child had a turned eye and she would bring a man for us to see him. He was kind of a tough kid.
And she told me one day, the reason I really like it is because when we're doing this,
he's much easier to be around at home. Really? Yeah. Because he'd pull him out and
and he was just a much happier kid. And so again, when I say vision is pervasive,
it's everywhere. Talk about intelligence language and all this stuff and we'll play with some things
on that. It is. You're talking about, you're talking about personality. Well, how much of how
you see the world is personality. You see what you value. You're blind to what you don't value.
So what are you seeing? Well, is that related to personality? You bet it is what you're seeing.
And so it's an amazing area to work with. And there are many mechanical models. You can say,
well, we're making one eye work with the other eye. We're teaching the eyes how to change focus.
And we're going to talk about that and do some drills on it. But you're working with an entire
person and vision is a reflection of the entire person. Okay. Vision is run by your emotional
centers. In other words, your autonomic nervous system, your involuntary nervous system, the one
if I walk up behind you and say boo and you tingle all over. That is your focusing system
is run by that very thing. Parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems run your focusing
system. So emotion is very hooked into vision. And indeed when, when you have somebody who has an
eye turn and they don't, and they're having a bad day there, I mean, where they're like upset,
the eye goes in while they're upset. You see immediately changes. And you, we've all seen it.
You know, we had days where everything looked great. Days where it doesn't look so good.
Yeah, it's the same thing with anything, right? Days you don't feel good, days you don't sleep good.
Your body doesn't feel good. Right. And your vision is off. It's just that normally,
if you have to, if you're like this, like we all are, one day you're good, one day you're not,
and you only have to be this good, you're always good enough.
Some people, one day they're making it, the next day they're not making it, one day they're making
it. So it just kind of depends where that overall level is. How many people do you test that had no
idea they were missing this part of their vision? Like for people that are out, people out there
that are listening to this right now, you were just explaining a minute ago, they don't know
what they're missing. Some people, they don't understand exactly what we're talking about.
There's no way to describe it. It's kind of like talking to a bunch of colorblind people
about the difference between red and blue. What are you going to say? One's a little brighter,
that have no idea what you're talking about. And to talk about depth perception to somebody
who doesn't have it, they really don't understand what you're talking about. Now in my practice,
I don't see general patients. We have people that talk to them on the phone
for a half hour an hour before they ever appoint them, before they make their appointment,
to make sure it's the type of person that if I were to see them, it would be worth their while
to see me. And so they would go, it's kind of like, well, I've been having trouble seeing the board.
Sounds like you should have a routine eye exam. A routine exam, exactly. Yeah.
You know, how's reading been? Reading's great. I've just not seen the blackboard. Well,
let's start with a routine eye exam. And if that doesn't solve your problems,
give us a call again and that type of thing. But I have the opposite all the time. I have
people come to me who had an eye that turned in and they always will say, I don't have depth
perception. I always, I'd never passed the depth perception tests. I don't have any depth perception.
And I will use a different type of depth perception test that
accentuates their side vision in a different way. And they'll have depth perception. So it's like,
I'll be able to find it that first day. It doesn't mean that their depth perception is good. It just
means we've got a place to start to make it better. Okay. Right. But that one happens all the time.
Well, I've never had depth perception.
Because they're aware they don't have the depth perception.
Because I've been told.
Exactly.
Yeah. The doctor has said, we probably shouldn't be an eye surgeon.
And so the way your eyes work together.
So how can we explain to people who don't know if they have depth perception or not? How can we
show them? Can we show them some slides? Or what can we do to help people understand
normally, you do things off case history anyway, off of asking questions. And if you have somebody
that believes in vampires, or is just afraid to go out after dark because they don't want to drive,
then you've got somebody with a vision problem. When you have somebody who doesn't go to 3D movies,
why don't you go to 3D movies? They give me a headache. You've got somebody with a vision
problem. In fact, there's probably no better overall screening test than just going to a 3D
movie. And if you leave it sick, you've got a vision problem. You've got difficulty using your
eyes together somehow. You have difficulty with depth somehow. There's something there.
And it could be you and your body system, vestibular system, but integrating your movement system
with your eyes, there is something there. And that's why they don't sell 3D TVs anymore.
It's because in a family of five, you're going to have one that has rotten depth perception.
That's so crazy to me. And so that family is not going to go to a 3D movie because they're
going to have one kid who's sick. When they get out of there, I have headaches. The glasses come
off the first thing. Those are all things that tell you, Hey, these eyes aren't working together.
And it's uncomfortable to use them together. And so that is probably the best sign there is
that something's going on in that area. And it's not the acuity chart because time and again,
they'll do fine on that. Or if they don't do well in the acuity cart to get new glasses,
they go back to the 3D movie and they're still sick, then you've got something more going on
than just the acuity chart problem. Right. There was a quote in your book or there was a whole
chapter dedicated to knowledge by description versus knowledge by acquaintance. Can you expand
on that? I think I was Bertram Russell had used those words. But you could talk about
narratives. You read something and it tells you how to do something. And then you've got experience
where you've actually done it. Entirely different types of learning. You could read a dozen
anatomy texts, but it's entirely different if you're doing surgery. We learn by doing things
to where you really can do things. As opposed to books, books give us extra information.
But like when I do drills, for instance, in the book we were talking about, whatever the name of
it was. The shape of the sky. That's it. Thank you. I have a copy of it. We can show it in the
back. So in there, we have a lot of games to play to kind of see how you do in all these different
areas. And if you do the games, you understand what I'm talking about. If you don't do the games,
you've got a bunch of words. So it's like when I tell parents, when your child reads,
he has to work, put an extra effort to point both eyes in the same spot at the same time,
and that extra effort tires him out. Well, that's nice. That sounds like a good bunch of words.
Yeah. Yeah. And the parent can listen and they can say, yeah, a lot of words there.
And if they really get a good memory, they can repeat all the words.
If instead I take what's called a prism and I put it in front of them and let them see double
and try to read that way, now they understand what I'm talking about. When he reads, this is
how he sees and that's worth all the words in the world. So that's using experience as opposed to
just the words. That really resonated with me thinking about that because I immediately just
went to thinking about everything you see on the internet are people sitting at tables like myself
with microphones in front of them talking about anything, things going on on the opposite side
of the world, things going on here, stuff in the news, and all these people are explaining to the
world what the reality of the world is. But these people that are talking to you only have this
quote knowledge by description. Like they only heard something or read something or are going
off some bullet points that they have to talk about for the whole purpose of entertainment and
what I realized is I notice a huge difference in listening to somebody who has been somewhere
or done something and they're talking about something that they've done or personally experienced
versus like what you're used to seeing like people talking on the news, people talking on a podcast
like myself that are just explaining something that they just understand from reading it or
watching a documentary or a movie or something or from reading a dozen books and getting context
from a bunch of different people's angles from reading other people's experiences and trying
to translate that into something that they're speaking as fact. The guy that got me interested
in what we're talking about, he said you watch the people that lecture, they go out and lecture,
some of them talk about what they do and some of them talk about what they've read.
You'll see very, very different things and so the rule is if you're going to lecture, you ought to
only lecture about the things you're actually doing because we had like a discussion about
red light and how it seems to help with nearsightedness or studies showing it,
but it's not something I've implemented in my office right now. So it wasn't something that
I really wanted to talk about because I'd be back to telling you what I read
instead of what I saw, the kid who acted different after we did this or whatever.
But also it also relates to how we see, what we see. When you look at that microphone or my
microphone, you see a different microphone than I do because you have intimate experience with the
microphone. You know how every dial changes it, you know how it moves, I look at it and say microphone
and that's it. Hey, there's a wire over there, but what's that wire about? So when it comes to seeing,
like somebody comes to my office and we have this little gadget, you put in front of their eyes
and you say which is better, one or two. Does it look better this way, one or does it look better
two and it has these dials on it and so somebody comes in and they look at that and they say
a gadget for examining eyes. I look at it and I know how to move every dial on it. I know all
the actions involved with the thing. I see a different instrument. If I look at a sewing machine,
I see a different instrument than a seamstress would who uses the sewing machine. I actually see
something different. And so you think we're both seeing the same thing, but we're not. And the
difference is that if you're really seeing something, you know the actions you can use it for.
And that's when you really start to see. When you know the actions that are involved
with that thing on that apple. Oh yeah, I know that apple. It's going to taste like this. It's
going to be kind of tart and it's going to be juicy and the juice is going to run down my face
and it's going to smell just like an apple. And I know how many steps it's going to take to get
to that apple and I know what it's going to feel like when I feel it. I get all of that just from
the light coming into my eyes from the apple. I get all of that all at once type of feeling.
That's if I've eaten an apple. Right. If I saw a picture of an apple in a book, I don't get any of
that. Right. Okay. Absolutely. So, but yeah, those are examples, but those are, we see differently.
Two people look at the same scene. They see entirely different things and we'll get into that
like based on value. Right. Based on the value and we'll get into that right now.
Okay. Well, let's skip forward here. Okay. Vision is something we do. Okay. So,
if you look at this screen here, if you look over on the right side, there are these two
little horizontal arrows pointing at each other. Can you look at the big picture and see those
arrows pointing at each other? Right. If I'm looking for that, I can find it. You can find it.
You can find the up and down arrows. There's down below there are four arrows. You can see them,
the oblique four arrows. You can see them all at once to that picture. You can see the horizontal
and vertical arrows on the picture. So, when you look at that picture, what you see is what you're
doing. Okay. That isn't, and you've drawn arrows in the past. Right. You know the movements that
are involved with all those arrows. That's how you learn. When you were little, you learned how
to draw a circle because we think it's a big deal in this culture. So, how many circles do you see
when you're out in the forest? None. Unless the moon's out. Right. That's about it. But those are
cultural things. But vision is something we do. So, let's go on to that next slide and go on to
the next one. There we go. So, there was a guy by the name of Skeffington who, in the 1920s,
started to look at vision as something more than 2020. He wanted to know why, as it is,
that some people who measure like they need glasses are happier when they don't have them,
because that happens. You do your measurements and then the measurements say, oh, this person
should like this pair of glasses and they don't like them. Okay. And he wanted to know about
all of these things, but he thought about vision comprised. He put four circles, and those aren't
his words, but one circle has to do with space. It has to do with knowing where things are.
One circle has to do with value. And that's kind of knowing what things are. It's valuing the actions
that have to do with something. Like when you see a dust, if your job is to keep dust off things,
when you see that dust particle, it means something to you. It means something to you.
Somebody else does not see the dust particle, because they're not thinking about the actions
involved with that dust particle. They're blind to it. Okay. And then you've got your body things,
and how you see relates very much to your body, which we'll play with. And then you have words
themselves and the words relate to how you see. So if we go to the next slide.
Okay. So this is a good example. We've been talking about seeing big and seeing little.
So if we look at this slide here, it just says consciousness is not something that happens.
And just look at the slide and I'll care. We're not going to try to understand it at the moment.
We're just going to look at it and answer the question. Is it all clear?
Yes. Okay. So the slide is all clear. Okay. Now look at the, that red C at the very beginning.
Keep your eyes on that C and can you read the paragraph without taking your eyes off the C?
No, it's blurry. It's all blurry. So when it all looked clear, what you did with your eyes is you
looked at one thing at a time. Your eyes danced all over the screen. They looked at all the different
words and in your mind it was all clear at the same time. Right. But you did it sequentially.
You did it one step at a time and you added that all together. And this is why when you say seeing
big and everybody sees big because they're looking around all over the place, that's different than
seeing big all at once. Right. Okay. Is this what most people do? And this is, well, you have to
on writing. On writing, you have to. Okay. There's no other way to do it. There's no way to see
well out of the corner of your eye. But if I walked into a room, I could in a single glance
tell you where the television was related to the sofa. I don't have to look at every button on the
sofa. I don't have to look at every dial on the television to tell you where the two are compared
to each other. I just need one look, but some people will take a lot of looks. Okay. Okay. So
we'll keep going here. Let's do this next one. Okay. So when you see let's, it's almost like
you have a flashlight and one person turns the beam really wide and they see a whole bunch of
stuff in a single glance and another person moves the beam all over. It's like you're in a dark room
and you're going to look at here, here, here, here, here, here and others just see a little tiny
area. So you'd like talking to somebody to see their face. You don't see where they are in the room.
Right. Okay. Very like a very narrow beam of vision. And others will see the face and they
won't see any space between them and you. Okay. So another word. When you say any space between
them and you. Okay. There's space between you and I. Right. If I pay attention to that space,
I see you are a little over half way between me and the wall. Okay. Okay. And when I did that,
I didn't look all over here. I was looking towards you, but I just see where you are in the room.
Okay. Okay. But if all I saw, I've had patients ask me, when I talk to somebody, I never know
which eye to look at. I find myself looking from eye to eye. Well, that tells me. I mean,
when they're looking at somebody's face. Yeah. They end up looking at a little area at a time.
They can't see both eyes at once. They don't see a face. They see an eye and then they see the other
eye. Right. Okay. So they're seeing little tiny bits. They're selecting a little tiny area to see
and then they add them together. So when you look at somebody's face, aren't you just like scanning
their face? Or no. I could be. Or I could look towards you and see where you are in the room,
like I am right now. Okay. Okay. So I'm aware of this much space here. There's space behind you,
between you and the wall. So you're not necessarily hyper-focusing on one part of the face. You're
just sort of like taking in the shapes. Yeah. I'm just seeing where things are.
Right. Okay. Okay. Now, if I want to see if you need your eyebrows trimmed,
then I'm going to have to really look at the eyebrow to see what needs to be done.
Right. Okay. If I want to count your eyelashes, I have to look. Right. Okay. So let's go to the next
one here. Okay. Now, the people who are close to their screen, if you look at this thing,
if you look in the upper right-hand corner, there's all these white dots. Yes. At the
intersection of the lines. And if you look in the left corner, there are all these white dots at
the intersection of the lines. And what it amounts to is wherever you're pointing your eyes, that's
where those white dots are. So if you just kind of look around, you see the white dots come all
over, that means your eyes are looking all over. Now, if you were to point your eyes in the center,
where the black dots are, and you kept your eyes right on those black dots, all the white dots
will disappear. That's if you don't let your eyes dance around. Okay. Now, while you're doing that,
if you opened up your side vision for people that aren't able to view this on YouTube,
or you're just listening to the audio, we're looking at like this big square.
How would you describe what we're looking at? It's like a diagonal lines.
Yeah. And they are set up so you see the white dots at the intersection of the diagonal lines,
but only when your good vision points at them. Your good vision is your central vision. So the
dots tell you where your eyes are pointing. Okay. So if you look to the right, you see dots to the
right. If you look to the left, you see dots to the left. That's fascinating how that works.
And then in the center of the screen, there are some black dots. So if you get your eyes pointed
right at those black dots, your eyes aren't looking at any of the white dots. They all disappear.
And if you open up your side vision and see the outside of the screen, without seeing any
white dots, you can see a big black rectangle around the edge of the screen. If you can open
your side vision up that much. I can see the nine black dots and the black box around the edge.
Yeah. So you're centrally looking and you're peripherally looking and you're doing it at the
same time. The normal way to do it would be to just look at the frame and you'd see the white
dots follow your vision around. But if for some reason you want to see a bigger area at the same
time, which is necessary for many people to see depth perception, they have to see a bigger area
to see all the space. This would tell them, oh, I guess my eyes are dancing all over. I didn't
notice that. Okay. Okay. So if we did the next one, again, if you look at the very center,
you can see a big A, B, C and D out of the corner of your eye without seeing any white dots.
But if your eyes dance over to the B or the A, then the white dots come around it.
Right. Yeah. Okay. So you realize if you're doing it sequentially one at a time or you're seeing
them all at once. And then the next slide here. Okay. So when I said there were four circles,
that first circle was where are things. So that was an example. Where are they? Where are my eyes
pointing? Where's the world? Now we talk about values. So here we have a picture of a guy sitting
on a cliff. In fact, it's a very narrow promontory on a cliff, a little tiny area. And he's sitting
there and he's looking at the view. And he's seeing, so when he looks at a cliff, he sees an
opportunity to look at the world. The second picture, there's a guy jumping off a cliff. So he's,
and he's in the water, he's jumping off the cliff into the water. And he sees the same cliff,
but he sees it as an opportunity for a thrill. Right. If he was a hang glider, he'd say, ah,
perfect place to hang glider. Okay. That's what he'd see. This third guy, he looks at the cliff and
he thinks, oh gosh, I could fall off that. And all he sees is a hazard. Right. He sees the fear.
A fear of falling. So the actions, he values are, are not falling. And one guy values the
action of the jumping or hang gliding. And the other guy values the action of seeing the panorama,
seeing the whole view, seeing all of the horizon and all that beauty out there. And if we go to
the next slide, another example, in the first picture, you've got three people sharing an apple,
but they are thinking about an apple as something you eat. Have you ever seen anybody eat apples
like that? Listen, if I hadn't known that works, when I was 40 years younger, I would have always
carried an apple, you know? That guy knows how to eat an apple, folks. Yeah. Yeah. He's got a
couple of cheerleaders with him that are helping him with the apple. But anyway, they're eating.
An apple is something to eat. It's valuable because the action of eating. The second guy
as an artist, and he is drawing an apple. And to him, he's seeing all the contours of the apple.
He's seeing the shades on the apple. He is converting a three-dimensional apple onto a
two-dimensional page. Okay? Right. So he sees the action of drawing. And then the third one,
we've got a William Tell picture where a guy has an apple on his head. He's also got shot in the
eyeglasses with an arrow. Luckily, it's a suction cup arrow. It's a suction cup arrow. So it isn't
that bad. But anyway, he sees the apple as a target. Okay? So what we see is what we value,
and what we don't see, we don't value. At the moment, you don't value the fact that there's
different little colors on the top of your table. Okay? There's little spots of colors there.
Right. You didn't value it. So you didn't see it. You were blind to it. Okay? Right.
And so you see what you value. You're blind to what you do not value. And when you go to a
newscast, you see what the newscaster valued. Now, how do things like this help? I mean,
I'm sure a lot of people don't come in for asking, say, hey, I don't know where I am in the world,
or I can't see 3D space. Most people come in for reading or learning problems, I'm sure.
How can somebody get better at reading and better at digesting knowledge from a book? Because
obviously, there's two parts of it, right? There's reading the text, making sure the text is clear,
and it's all one line, and words aren't bouncing all over the place. And then the other part is
actually understanding and digesting what you just read. Okay. If you are working just to look at it,
there's nothing left to understand it. You are putting all your energy in that just looking
at it. Right. Okay. So if you have difficulty using your eyes together, when you look at things,
well, adults, they always tell me, well, I say it out loud, and then I listen to what I said,
and then I translate it, and then I know what it said. In other words, they don't look at the words
and the information just comes in. Right. They actually will talk to themselves, say the words,
listen to the words, and pull it in through their ears. Wow. And they actually use different areas
of the brain than normal readers, because they are reading in a different way. They're doing it
auditorily. They're listening, and it goes in through their ears. Just like when you talk to
them, they understand it. But when they have to use their eyes and get it at the same time,
if they're working for that print not to double up, not that they'll ever see it double,
some of them do, but most of them will just get away from it before that ever happens.
They'll just say, I'd rather be doing something else right now.
Exactly. I think I will. Now, how can you make somebody get better at reading? Do they just
have to value it? Do they have to really want that information in that book? And then that's what,
is that what drives people to want to acquire a better ability to read something? Because
you're not just going to make somebody get good at reading if they don't care about reading, right?
Like they're going to have to want that. They're going to have to value the knowledge or the
information. Yeah, I always wanted to just see if the girl was going to kiss the guy or not.
And so I kept going to do that. But, you know, so I was a fiction reader, and I just wanted to
know how the story would end up. People, there's another group of people that are information
readers. They look at things when they want to know something. And with kids, it's very important
that you figure out what they're like. And if they want information, you have them read
biographies. You do not have them read stories. Okay. Some kids could care less about stories.
And one of the things is if you read to them and they're just uninterested, it's kind of like,
why would I waste my time on stories? What does that do? Right. But they'll, they will read things
about baseball. They'll read things about things they want to know about. Okay. If it's real, it
might be worth. So that's part of it. But what we would do is the first thing we're going to do is
get them so they can comfortably look at things and not have that, I don't want to be their feeling.
And that has to do with getting one eye to work with the other. But then if they
have a hard time where they look at a word and they see the first letter and they call out the
word, we're going to get them. So they're very good at looking at all the parts of the word,
where they're able to concentrate their attention on small parts of the world and do that easily.
We might use a target where we flash things and they have to pick it up quicker.
I'm like, we'd flash arrows and they have to remember which way they flashed,
up down, left, right, that type of thing. Right. We do all sorts of things so they can get information
and quick, quickly. And then another big, big, big part which fits in vision and doesn't
is they have to know what the words mean. Right. So I think earlier we used one,
the man was Uxorius, which pleased his wife and amused his friends. And Uxorius, that doesn't mean
anything. So your attention sticks in the word. Exactly. You lose the whole thing.
But Uxorius essentially means that extremely doting towards one's wife is what they call it.
It would be Ux is Latin for wife. And it means that you do 100% everything that your wife tells
you to do. So I am, for instance, Uxorius. When I'm in the house, I always do what I'm told,
because I don't want to sleep in the garage. Okay. But anyway, so the man was Uxorius,
which pleased his wife and amused his friends. And then the whole sentence kind of makes sense.
So that's a big part of reading. You don't have a picture of a word that you don't understand.
So if you're going to read and picture what you're reading, right, like there was a sailboat
and the sail was kind of tipped over in the wind of the boat was half tipped over. There's a man
in the boat and he has a corn cob pipe and it's sitting in his lips. Well, those are pictures.
You get a picture of what's going on. Okay. Well, if you'd want, ideally,
you're turning words into pictures when you're reading, you're seeing what's happening.
And, but if you have to think about the word, you can't do two things at once.
Okay. And less one of them is automatic. I can't say the alphabet backwards and go
do a pattern and continue the pattern and say the alphabet backwards at the same time. I can do
one. I can do the other. I can't do them both at once. Two things that I have to think about.
If you had a child and you say, look at my finger and then you say, what's three plus two and their
eyes go all over the room. It shows you that they can't look at something and think at the same time.
Wow. Okay. And so being able to just look at things and also think at the same time is a big deal,
that integration of those things. So that would be another thing we'd be working on,
getting them. So looking at things was so second nature that they didn't have to think about looking
at things. Now, have you heard speed readers describe how they do that? How they just scan
the lines really quick and then process it afterwards? There's a different way to read.
I read terribly. I say all the sounds to myself. I translate those sounds into what's going on.
You mean you actually say the words out loud? No, I say them in your mind.
But in my mind, which is good if you're reading poetry, you want to hear the rhythm and everything,
but it's very slow. You're not going to get too quick that way. Three, four hundred words a minute,
that's about it. If you're going to vocalize them all and then do that extra step, some people
look at it and seem to understand what they're looking at. They skip the saying it step and
they pull the information straight off the page. How they do it, I have no idea. But I have a friend,
he's a journal editor. Put that thing down a little. Yeah, I have a friend. He's a journal
editor and he reads a book in a day. That kind of stuff baffles me how people do that.
But he just sucks that information off the page and that would not mean that he reads out loud
well. It doesn't mean he's a good reading performer. We see kids all the time who are
good reading performers and you ask them, what does that word mean? It's like, they're not reading
saying all the sounds nicely. They're word callers. Knowing what the words mean is a big deal as far
as language. I think we're doing the language next anyway here. Okay. And language is okay.
Yeah. So if you have this on your screen, which one of those is different? Which one of those
smileys is different? The second one's different. Yeah. And the way I asked that question, I said,
which one is different? Well, they're all different. None of the smileys are like the other ones.
Every smiley is different. A little bit different. But I said, which one is different? And so you
were only looking for one that was different. One is the most different. Yeah. So if I said,
how many of those smileys are a little different than the other ones,
then you could see that they're not smiling the same way.
You'd see they're all different. Right. So depending on how I use language,
you see differently. Words tell us what to emphasize in our saying. Okay. I mentioned
there were some little flecks of color on the table. I used words to change your saying.
Right. All of a sudden, those had value. Yeah. Just because they had value to me.
I draw a circle. Can you draw a circle? Well, yeah, I want to please mom or dad.
Right. I'll draw the circle. Right. So
language emphasizes what we see. So what do we have next? Anything? I guess we do.
Okay. So look at this blizzard. If you're seeing this in front of you here, there's this blizzard.
You can see there's some bushes in there. Looks like some snows in there. Maybe a cloud.
Some dark area in between the clouds. Okay. And then if we go to the next picture,
now where it says ear, that's a cow's ear. This is the Wrenshaw cow. So if you look where it says
ear, that's the cow's one ear and the cow's eye is over there on the other side. The cow's nose
is at the bottom and his snout kind of goes down. So as I do language difference, you start
to see something entirely different in there. Yeah. When you try to describe where things are,
I can see the cow. Yeah. Now you can't unsee the cow. Once you've seen the cow,
you'll see it every time you look at it. Exactly. Which happens to me. It happens to us all.
There's some things. Once you've seen them, you never forget them. Okay. So,
but there again, language affects what we see. It's a part of our seeing. It emphasizes what
we see. What's the next one there? Okay. Now you mentioned language and vision and how are
they hooked together. So on this one, why don't we try, we got a bunch of arrows here. Okay.
Yeah. Some arrows pointing up, some arrows pointing left, some arrows pointing down and some right.
So I'm going to start and I'm going to just point my hand like I'm looking at an arrow. So I guess
I'm in front of here. I'm looking at arrows. So I go right and left and up and right and left.
Now what would happen if I said the opposite I was seeing? So now I go left, right, down.
Okay. So you're swiping your hand left and you're saying the word right.
Right. If you try that. Right. Left. Down. It's hard to do. Yeah, it is hard to do. Because words
and seeing are tightly bound together and when you unbind them, it's hard. So now try it. Say what
you're seeing and move your hand the opposite way. So on that first one. And move the opposite way
that I'm looking at. Yeah, you're going to say right, but you're going to move your hand left.
Right, left, up, down. You see what I mean? It's very confusing. Okay. So my brain is scrambled
now. Yeah, your brain is scrambled and that's just it. And normally words and seeing, they're
bound together. Whenever you unbind them, whenever you do it differently, it is very difficult.
Because you're in a whole new world, you're doing actions that make no sense based on the words. The
words told you an action and now you're doing a different action. Right. Okay. So speaking or seeing
and words, they are intimately hooked together. You just can't get away from them.
And I don't know if we have anything left here. No, we don't. Good. Okay. But so anyway, so those
are some examples. So you see what you value and what you value or opportunities for action.
I have my liquid death here. Yes. Okay. And I'm thirsty.
So I saw an opportunity for action. To quench your thirst. You just murdered your thirst.
That's it. I murdered my thirst. I love these things. I'll give you, I'll send you some home
with you. That's it. My wife will really be happy if I bring that home. Yes. I'm sure she would
value that. But you have value. You have where is it? So I can grab that liquid death. I didn't
knock it over. I didn't swipe my hand and missed it. Right. I grabbed it. If I were to cover an
eye where I didn't have both eyes and I have to line my hand up with it, it's kind of hard to do.
I could kind of do it, but it's pretty hard with what I covered. So that where is it?
Where am I? If somebody had somehow put me where I wasn't, put me somewhere else,
and I was thinking, well, it's there. I wouldn't know where. I certainly wouldn't know where in
the room that was. Now, I'm sure you've read The Mind's Eye, the book by Oliver Sacks,
where he speaks about all kinds of different human impairments and how people overcome
different things and learn how to walk. And there's one chapter dedicated to vision,
where he spoke about a lot of famous painters and famous artists who suffered from stereo
blindness, meaning they weren't able to see this depth. And there was a lady named Margaret
Livingston, I believe, from Harvard, who analyzed a bunch of self portraits of Rembrandt. And she
said that based on his eyeballs, he was most likely stereo blind, meaning he could not see
3D depth, which is a big advantage. She was saying that there's a lot of artists like this,
like Picasso, for example. And there's some sort of connection between people like Rembrandt and
Picasso being able to create these masterpieces. And at the same time, they're stereo blind.
Yeah. In art, you oftentimes are transforming a three-dimensional world into a two-dimensional world.
Well, in other words, there's space in here. And I have to translate that
on paper, a two-dimensional world. Okay? Right. Well, if I'm only using one eye,
now I've got a kind of a two-dimensional looking world. And I don't have to transfer it.
So you could almost communicate it, like you could communicate the depth by the
monocular cues better. Right. Because you're using monocular cues to create the illusion
of depth. Wow. So there can be advantages, if that's what you're doing, of not seeing the depth.
Or you might be able to create something better than a photograph if you could kind of convey
that sense of depth, even though you're using two-dimensional illusion to do it. So it's hard
to say. In other words, if I have a sense of how the world really is.
What does that even mean? Let's say there's a handsome young lady in front of me.
Okay. Okay. And I just fall in love with this young lady. And I'm going to put her on canvas.
Well, if I captured that love on canvas, if I did it in a way where you loved her too,
when you saw her. So you looked at the canvas and you had the kind of the emotional response I had
when I looked at the lady. Okay. As an artist, if I was able to capture that extra,
not just the physical, but kind of the emotion of the thing, then that would be a pretty special
painting. Yeah. You know, if you had like a Mona Lisa and she had this word smile,
and you're sitting there thinking, wow, what's going on here? That's different. Well,
there wasn't just, I don't think she probably had that weird smile.
Right. I think that Da Vinci kind of created something there. There wasn't an exact replica
of what is I told him. He was creating something more. Okay. So like an artist, in other words,
if I'm an illustrator, I might be able to draw a beautiful Elvis Presley or a tiger.
Cut them on felt. Okay. And they just like, they're just great. But that's a little different than
an object that I look at and I wonder about and I get involved with when I look at it.
And I started saying, well, what's going on here? I've never, I'm going to stop and not look like
I always look. I'm going to look at this in a new way. This is a different world. Something's
happening here. And so that's what your artists do. They get you to see the world in new ways.
Seeing Elvis on velvet doesn't get me to see the world in a new way.
Was Da Vinci one of those? Was he stereo blind too? Do you know about that?
I don't remember on that. Now, like some of them, like Monet, as he got older, he had cataractants.
So he had those big blurry, the big blurry canvases, the lilies or the things on the pond.
So that he was capturing a different way of seeing as it came before him. And I'm sure that it was
interesting to him because he was in a new world. Right. It's very interesting too with filmmakers
like Errol Morris is one of the famous ones. He's one of my favorite filmmakers who has zero
depth perception. I don't think he's had it since he was a child. He had very poor vision in one eye
and it's just gotten worse over time. And he has a very unique way of shooting his documentaries.
He has this thing, I forget what he calls it now, but basically, are you familiar with like
how a teleprompter works, right? Like it's a screen that projects in reverse the words onto a mirror
that the people can see on the other end of it. So the people seeing like a reversed mirror image
of the words like scrolling. So he figured out a way to put his head inside of a teleprompter.
So when he interviews people, the camera is directly in front of his face and there's just a
mirror in front of the camera reflecting up above the camera and onto his face. So that way,
the person is only seeing his face, not the lens of the camera because there's a mirror in front of
it. And it's a very unique way of recording an interview. It just invokes so much more emotion
because the person is staring right into the viewer's eyes and only somebody who has, it's like
the way I think about it is maybe he's trying to make up for a lack of perception that he has
and he's trying to overcompensate by using these extra tools and trying to evoke even more emotion
out of this flat image that he only sees. But people like us, or people like more,
that people who have good stereo vision see, they don't need that extra. It's just over the top for
them, which makes his film so much better and puts his work so far above the rest.
And even when Oliver Sacks interviewed Errol Morris, it was funny when he asked him about
stereo vision or seeing shit in 3D, he was just like, I think it's a gimmick. He was,
I think stereo vision is a gimmick. I don't understand why you would even need it. I don't
think you do need it, which was wild to hear. And he thought, he even said to Sacks, he said,
I think that your interest in this is kind of bizarre.
It'd be like talking to a colorblind person about color. I think that color film is highly
overrated. Why is it better than black and white? Well, colorblind people, they can see color,
right? They just don't understand, they don't have the language to match up with it. Is that?
I don't know what they do. There's different versions of colorblind. I'm sure there's a
lot of different philosophies on how they do. There are different colorblindnesses.
I have lots of friends who say they're colorblind, but then sometimes I'll cat,
like one of my friends who has always told me he's colorblind, will be looking at something,
he'll be like, oh yeah, that little orange area right there. I'm like, yeah, that's orange,
like he told me you were colorblind. I didn't know that was orange. Yeah. Well, there's,
they mix up, you know, reds and greens. For instance, that's one type of color vision,
or two types. There's two different ways they can do that. And there are also monochromats
that only see one color, which they're rare. Really? Yeah. I think it's one in seven males
or red, green colorblind. And so that's fairly common. But in that whole art thing, you are
getting people look, it's almost like vision therapy. We take and put you in a new world.
Okay. So let's say you're used to walking around and I put what are called prisms on you,
and the prisms move the images over to the side. And now your body is telling you one thing,
and your eyes are telling you something else because of the prisms. They move the light over,
so your eyes are telling you one story, your body is telling you something else.
You have to wake up and see the world in a different way. Otherwise, you walk into walls.
Okay. Right. So it forces you to become conscious, to wake up, to start to explore,
see what's going on, and then to create in this new world. Okay. And art does the same thing.
It wakes people up. Now, if it wakes them up too much, they're not going to like it. It's too
different. It's too weird. Okay. It's just like I can't put huge, huge, huge prisms on you and get
you walking around and you just fall down. Right. Right. Or if I throw on a pair of prisms that
make the world backwards, you're not going to like that much. It's just too much of a change.
Right. Okay. You'll just be disoriented. So it's, but you're putting people in novel
experiences. So if you had a cross-eyed person and you put lenses in front of them that allowed
their eyes to work together for the first time, they wouldn't know what to do with it.
You might be talking about depth. They just talk about weird. Right. You know, what is that?
It doesn't look the same. And my hand, something's wrong here. My hands aren't quite telling me what
they should tell me. Right. Right. So your therapy, you put somebody in an instrument,
you put a lens in front of them and change the world. For people who've ever had new glasses
that they didn't like, they couldn't get used to them. What happened there is the glasses changed
where things were in the world. Right. Okay. You were used to moving your eyes a certain amount
and now you had to move them last or you had to move them more than you used to.
And getting used to those new movement patterns gets you all confused and you hate the glasses.
And you go back to the doctor and they check them to see if the glasses are what they ordered.
And then they say, well, if you wear these a bit, you'll get used to them. And in most cases,
you do because as you start learning how to move in the new world, you get used to it.
And because if your glasses magnify, let's say your eyes have always moved from here to here,
now they have to move from here to here. Right. Everything's bigger. Your eye movements all change
and you have to get used to all these new eye movements. So even though the glasses make things
clear, they also mess you up as far as where are things in the world. Yeah, you almost have to
rewire your consciousness. Yeah, it's just you got to get your body and your eyes working together
again. It's even worse if one eye is different than the other.
Okay, I want to kind of transition this into what we can do to fix this thing. So for everyday
people who are listening to this and want to figure out a way to improve their vision or
improve their perception of the world, what are some daily things or some everyday things that
people can do to expand their vision, expand their acuity. And you even actually, you spoke
about, you worked with a seal, I believe a Navy seal and a pilot to improve their vision with
some rigorous grueling therapy work where they did five hours a day of therapy and they actually
improved their vision from like very poor vision to 2020 in the matter of a week. Yeah.
Okay, if we're talking about seeing smaller, we're probably talking about somebody who's
nearsighted, meaning when you take your glasses off, you can't see far away. Okay, you might be
able to see just fine if you move something real close to you, but anything that's further away,
it's hard to see. So with that, what you would do is you'd take your glasses off and you would get
as far from some print as you can barely see it. You'd close your eyes, you'd picture the print,
and then you'd pop your eyes wide open, just like you're throwing your eyes across the room.
And oftentimes the print will start to clear up a bit and then it disappears again. Okay.
Now, when I say it clears up, it actually clears up. It actually starts to look smaller and
blacker. So you'd have to have print that's big enough, like if you had liquid death here.
Yeah. Okay. If it was that size print and you got that right at the edge of where you can barely
see it, if you closed your eyes and then popped them wide open, it might come into focus for a
second. If it did, then that's a way to learn to see smaller. You just keep practicing that.
And is this kind of what you did with the Navy Seal and the pilot?
That was one of the big ones. They call it deep winks.
Deep winks. But it's just closing your eyes and then popping them wide open.
And it helps if you picture in your mind what you're going to see.
Okay. So you read the words, imagine what they say.
Yeah. You could get up close and look at it in detail. Yeah.
Move it out further, picture that in your mind, pop those eyes wide open and then boom,
see if it'd come in a second. If it'll come in a second and then it disappears,
then by working that more, you start to learn how to keep it in. And then when you move your eyes,
it blurs. So eventually you learn how to keep it in even though you're moving your eyes and
things are moving. Now this is, and that's in that book as far as there's a whole little section
of exactly how to do that exercise. But that's more for the people that would like to see with
weaker glasses. And then you go to your optometrist and you ask, could I have a pair of glasses that
are four clicks too weak for me? And you start working in that.
Okay. So essentially you can kind of like work your way down in power with your glasses.
Power to where you get so you can see. Now, if you're very nearsighted, you're not going to
just take your glasses off and see much. Right. If you can see to read without your glasses,
in other words, if you could read at normal distance, let's say you can read at 16 to 20 inches
without glasses on, you probably can learn to see pretty well in the distance. Okay.
If you have to move your book up to where it's 10 inches in front of your nose,
then you probably can't learn to see in the distance without glasses. So it's,
if you're a little nearsighted in other words, you can become less and less dependent on glasses.
On the other hand, if you have Coke bottles that are quite thick, you might be able to learn
how to see with, with glasses that are less far. Now, there are lots of books on the market on
that type of thing. The most famous one is by Bates. Better eyesight without glasses. I think
it was called. He's famous for the Bates method. The Bates method. So he had a whole bunch of
exercises. The deep winks I mentioned, they're in the book that we've been talking about.
The shape of the sky. There's a section in here on that. Now, when it comes to seeing three-dimensional
though, now you want to start looking at the space in between things. Okay. So let's say I have liquid
death here and I have my hand here. Well, how much space is here? So if instead of looking at liquid
death or looking at my hand, I instead look at the space between them. Now I'm starting to think
about that. If I'm in the forest and there are two trees and I start to see both at once,
look at one, see the other one, then there's more space. I could look and see if I can see
three trees at the same time. So I could open up my side and see three different trees at once
or four or five so that I start to see a bigger area at the same time. If there are two trees
and they look like they're so three, four feet apart, as I walk towards them, they get further
and further apart. They look like they're spreading out. If I keep thinking about both
trees simultaneously, then I'm opening up that side vision. If I am looking at something and I
think about how much space do I see between me and it, sometimes that will open up your
bigger space area. So this is almost the same. It seems like it's something that you have to
deliberately do like an exercise similar to the... You just have to do it.
Similar to the deep winks. It seems like something you have to constantly do for a long
period of time every day until... Is it something that eventually can become automatic to somebody?
Yeah. And that has to do with your posture as well. If you look at my posture,
I'm a typical nearsighted person and you'll notice my head is too far forward.
Right. Okay. So nearsighted people typically kind of look like this. Their head starts to go
like they're trying to see. Right. Okay. So if I instead straighten up, stretch the top of my head
to the ceiling, think about getting my ears so they're back over my shoulders, then the world
is more likely to open up. Because we said that your body was part of your seeing. So your posture
can affect things. So if you learn how to kind of stretch upward, and oftentimes you get so the
air is easier to see. The air is easier to see. Yeah. That's fast. I also, that's another thing I
see with a lot of gamers, video gamers, a lot of them are very hunched over. Yeah.
And they'll like hunch back. Yeah. And so when your posture goes normal, oftentimes your vision
goes back in the correct direction to where you're starting to see more, like you're looking at things.
You get the feeling like you and I are kind of together somehow. Right. In other words, when I
know where things are compared to me, I'm seeing them as if they relate to me. Okay. When I'm just
seeing how one thing is closer than another, I'm not really thinking that I have anything to do
with it. But when I'm seeing the distance between me and it, now it's like, oh, that,
so as you straighten up and you're out in the forest, you're walking around, you start to notice
that the trees are distances from you oftentimes. Right. So it's something that you can play with
on posture to get it more like a second nature type of thing. Okay. But the key on all of those
eventually is to do a moving. If you can't see space when you're moving, then it's nothing that's
going to stay with you at all. You'd have to be able to move. You'd have to be able to walk and
see the space. You'd have to be able to kind of move your head in different ways and still see
that space. Okay. There's obviously neurons in our brain and our visual cortex that process this
type of seeing, right? This sort of like three-dimensional space. There are binocular cells.
They're one eye and the other eye stimulate the same cell. Yeah. Okay. And these things can be like,
these things could potentially be in us when we're young and maybe leave us for a long time
and then come back way later in life, sort of be reactivated. Seeing this, seeing the big space
doesn't seem to require you to use those tiny, which finger is closer type cells.
Seeing the egocentric, the distance between you and things doesn't seem to require that. So you
will have people who have an eye that turns in a tiny, tiny bit. Yeah. They never quite use it
with the other one. And yet they learn to be very aware of space. Oh, really? Yes. Like
Sue Berry. You close this one. Yeah. Sue Berry wrote the book, What? Fixing My Gays. Yeah. Okay.
And she came to our office for a seminar. We were promoting her book. We had a bunch of
optometrists there who were do vision therapy and the price of the seminar was to buy 100 books.
And so we promote the book. She was there. And when she looked at the little stereo test that
the doctors normally give, she got quite a ways down, but not all the way to the end of it.
There was a doctor there who is nearsighted and he looked at the little book and he got them all
right. Okay. We then used a different stereo target, a big one on the wall. And she knew exactly
where it was. However, I changed it, you know, in a movie theater when the things come out at you,
like if you're a Disney world and the bug comes out in your face. When it came to that type of
stereo, she was much, much better than this other doctor. Okay. So he had the little type of stereo,
but she had the nowhere things are in the world type of stereo. So he had like the guy who was
sitting in a room reading all day type of stereo. Right. He was, but he could pass that little test.
And at that point, she didn't quite do as well as he did. And I don't remember exactly how things
turned out with her in the long run. But the point is the doctor's stereo test doesn't necessarily
tell you how, what big of an, how large of an area you look at in the world. Okay. When I look at
liquid death, I can look at, there's a little ring here. I could look at that. I could look at the
whole can at once. I could see where the can is compared to the table. So one way I'm seeing a
big area, one way I'm seeing a very small area. Right. And that's seeing a bigger area. And you
can do that by walking and seeing the trees move by you. That's one way to open up that side vision,
is walk and be aware of the trees appearing to move by you as you walk by them.
Or if you were to look at a tree. Is this called optic flow what you're referring to?
That's the optic flow. Okay. Okay. So you can see that you can see it.
Another way, if you were to look at a big tree, you could look at a pine cone on that tree. So
it's a big pine tree. And you could look at a single pine cone, or you could open up your
vision and see the whole tree at once and see its Christmas tree shape. Okay. So one way you're
seeing the whole big rectangular shape all at once. The other way you're looking at a single
pine cone, when you see the whole tree at once without moving your eyes all over, just see the
whole, open up, see the whole tree at once. All at once, there's more air between the branches
where you get this more three dimensional type of tree. So it's the size of the area you select
to see that kind of dictates how much space there is. Right. If you did it sequentially,
like when we were reading earlier and we read one, we said, is this whole thing clear? And you look
at it a piece at a time, you say it's clear. And then we didn't let you move your eyes. Right. And
now it was all blurry. So if you're using that sequential type of seeing, you just don't see
the space. But if you do it simultaneously, where you're seeing these trees on one side and
these trees on the other at the same time, or you're seeing the distance between you and the
tree all at once, if you look down the path and can see the path being wide next to you and narrow
far away, and you saw it all at the same time, that would open up your vision. Okay. So these
are all things that anybody could do. And this is how human beings are supposed to see. This is how
we were meant to be able to see the world. I'm sure this is how animals see the world. Right.
You should have the ability to do it. The flexibility. It depends. It depends what you're
doing. Okay. So if you're reading a book, for example, should you be able to like see the
entire book floating in space as well as the tiny words? I can, but you might be able to. Okay.
That might, it's not a goal I've worked on, but it... Would this be like an exercise people
could do to try to train this? They sometimes tell you when you read that every 20 minutes you
ought to look up for 20 seconds and see 20 feet away, I guess, in 2020. Well, you could also,
from time to time, open up your side vision and see where your gadget is. So if you have a phone,
you're looking at the phone, think about the distance between your nose and the phone and
the distance between the phone and the floor behind it. And you'll start to see where the phone is in
the room. Okay. So you can do that from time to time to get back into that opening up your vision.
Okay. Okay. So those are just little relaxation things. And how far you go,
but I mean the book, Shape of the Sky that we've been talking about. Yes. Now that I remember
the title. You're the one who wrote it. Yeah. Did you not title it? Yeah, I titled it. And I stole
the title from a paper I'd written. I liked it. So for that book is just full of exercises that
open up space. Okay. Okay. Now what is the shape of the sky? What can you distill that down to
in the sentence? Yeah. What would it be? If I were to see the entire tree at the same time,
if I opened up and saw the entire shape of the tree at the same time, it would cut out a hole in
the sky. It'd be blue on the outside. The tree would be on the inside. The shape of the sky is
the blue. And that blue, if you had a white cloud out there, it would spring back and you would see
the cloud further away when you opened up your vision. Yes. So the shape of the sky is, the sky
does have a shape. If there's a tree in front of you, part of the shape of the sky is made by the
tree. If there are clouds up above you, then part of the shape of the, that blue sky is made by the
clouds. If there's a cliff near you, part of the shape of the sky is that cliff. If there's a building
in near you, part of the shape of the sky is the building, you want to open up and see what shape the
sky is. Not looking at the edge of things, but look towards the middle of the sky and open up and
see the outside of the blue. And that's what gets you that spring where the trees come out towards
you compared to where the sky is. Right. So that's what the shape of the sky was about. And do most
people not see this? Like when I go for walks and I see the trees on both sides and I see them,
these trees are closer, these trees are farther and those ones are farther. There's just like layers
and layers and layers and then there's clouds that are on this like separate plane of existence. Is
that not what everyone sees? Well, if you are nearsighted like I am, chances are you're in your
mind anyway, even when you walk, you're doing something else, you're not where you are.
Your whole world is kind of close anyway. You're usually inside. You don't spend much time looking
300 yards away. Right. Okay. So if you take somebody who's a little far-sighted and somebody
who's nearsighted in the car, the far-sighted person is going to be saying, hey, look at that
range of mountains over there. Isn't that gorgeous? They'll be looking at a different distance. Okay.
So these are things to kind of do the opposite of getting nearsighted. Okay. I'm not saying they'll
make you not nearsighted, but knowing where things are is a big advantage for like driving at night.
The other thing you can do is when you're in a car, you're driving, if you're a C little type of
person, you will put the edge of your left fender next to the line and you'll keep it there and you'll
not have to open up your vision at all. You just keep your car next to the line and you know where
the car is. If instead you opened up your vision and saw both sides of the road at the same time
and put your car in the middle of the lane, now you're seeing a big area. So like if it's a foggy
night, kind of hard to see, you'll find it's a whole lot easier if you're opening up and seeing a
big area instead of trying to put the edge of your car next to the line because the line disappears.
It gets wet out there. The line disappears. You feel kind of, I don't like this,
but if you opened up, saw both sides of the edge of your road or your lane anyway,
put your car in the middle of it, now you're seeing a big area and it's a lot easier to tell
where you are. I've sought a doc I'm working with right now with the therapy. She was saying the
same thing, you know, as out of his reigning and all of a sudden, you know, that was pretty easy to
do it that way. Oh, wow. So that learning to open up your vision is a big thing about knowing where
things are. Because the other way, think about it, if you're looking at a piece at a time and your
eyes are dancing all over the road, that's an awful lot of work to know where things are.
It's an awful lot of work and it's got to burn up a lot of energy in your brain. It's got to make
thinking worse. It's got to make speaking worse. It's got to make everything worse when you do
things that way. Have you, what is like a big, what is like one of the most big breakthrough
moments you've seen in one of your patients where they've figured this out? Learn to see big,
learn to see small, learn to open up their vision and how has it improved? Like what is
some of the bigger kind of corollary improvements in their life as far as like focus or learning or
reading or all of the above? Well, Sue Berry writes it in her book, Fixing My Gays. She's a
neuroscientist and before her therapy to get her eyes to work together, she was, had three
surgeries for crossed eyes when she was a little girl under the age of seven and her eyes looked
good. Angle that thing down like this, like point it downwards a little bit, like a little bit more.
Perfect. Yeah. So Sue had learned how to have her eyes, they looked real good,
but her world was kind of jittery looking. It wasn't solid and she's like 48 and she's,
doesn't like the way she's seeing. She's been told that she's too old to ever have depth perception
and she goes in. Past the critical period. Yeah, that's that misrepresentation of the critical
period. Misrepresentation, right. It's not when you can be helped, it's when you can get worse.
Exactly. Okay. And so she worked and she got depth perception where she's seeing the steering
wheel pop out at her compared to the, you know, the background. She started to see what she did
is she started to process bigger areas and in her work, she also noticed that her thinking
changed. She started seeing the big picture on things. She started seeing the different
viewpoints. She could step back and see it all at once rather than just zeroing in on details.
I know one of my professors, I read his books on Shakespeare and they're all very, very,
very detail oriented. He digs into the details. You can see him talk about this detail,
this detail, this detail. Another author will give you an overview of the period and start
telling you how the details fit into that overview. So learning to see big, it actually changes your
thinking and that you learn to think big too. I mean, you learn to see a bigger view of things
and see how the parts fit into the view rather than just seeing parts. Oh, wow. And so that
in print, you know, that was like amazing when I had seen that. But I mean, oftentimes
people will see depth for the first time and start to cry or this type of stuff. It's a very
emotional moment when you run into what it's like to see that other way, especially probably if
you saw that way earlier and you got it back and put you right into it. Right. Well, let me grab
your book. Oh, good. Shower won your book so they can tell him where they can find it, the shape
of the sky. Oh, this is available through the Optometric Extension Program Foundation. Pull
a little bit back towards your face because it won't be in focus up there. There you go. Perfect.
The OEPF, the Optometric Extension Program Foundation, they sell the book. If you get the
book, you also want to go to my website, which is cookvisiontherapy.com. Okay. And on there,
I have all the diagrams that are in this book and they're all digital. And they're much,
you have red, blue glasses that come with the book. There are 3D targets in it. And on our website,
those targets are much, much brighter and easier to see than they are in the book themselves.
Okay. Perfect. And I'll make sure I link, I'll make sure I link to that book where people can
find it online below as well as to a link to the PDF where they can find some of those different
things that people can do to use to improve their vision, improve their perception, small, big,
all of it. Great. I really appreciate you coming here and doing this, man. It really means a lot.
