Hello world, today's guest is episode two, part two
with Dom Dagestino.
Dom is a research scientist
for the Institute of Human and Machine Cognition.
And the primary focus of Dom's laboratory
is developing and testing metabolic-based therapies,
including ketogenic diets, ketone supplements,
and metabolic-based drugs.
Dom's research has also been supported
and funded by the Office of Naval Research
and the Department of Defense.
Please welcome Dom Dagestino.
Welcome.
Thank you for coming on the show again, man.
I really appreciate it.
You've been on here before,
but for the new listeners and viewers,
why don't you let them know what you do?
Yeah, appreciate being on.
Thanks, Danny.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I was trained, my formal education is neuroscience.
Well, it was nutrition as an undergrad,
and then I gravitated to neuroscience and physiology,
where I studied the neural control of autonomic regulation,
so the brainstem mechanisms of how and why we breathe,
and there was oxygen and CO2 chemoreceptor regions.
Sort of.
Just a little closer.
Just a little bit, push the mic a little closer.
Closer, yeah.
And so my research on the neural mechanisms of respiration
led me to diving physiology.
So I was an avid diver during my PhD,
and that led to opportunities
to do my postdoctoral fellowship in diving physiology,
specifically funded by the Department of Defense,
Office of Naval Research,
where I did work on looking at oxygen toxicity seizures,
which limits Navy SEAL diving,
and I spent quite a few years developing hyperbaric technologies
and testing these technologies in biological systems
to understand how hyperbaric oxygen works
and how the benefits,
but I was actually really focused on the negative consequences
of being exposed to very high levels of oxygen.
And then that topic led me to the ketogenic diet
because ketones are neuroprotective,
and then the ketogenic diet was actually used
as an anti-seizure, anti-convulsant therapy,
and oxygen toxicity seizures,
which limits hyperbaric oxygen.
You can't go above, for example,
three atmospheres of oxygen with hyperbaric
because you have an oxygen toxicity seizure,
and also for military diving, it's a limitation.
So I was very excited at this point in time
when I discovered the ketogenic diet,
which I studied nutrition as an undergrad,
but never knew the ketogenic diet
was actually developed for epilepsy and for seizure disorders.
So it gave me the opportunity back about 15 years ago
to steer my research away from drug research
into studying the neuroprotective effects
of this high-fat diet,
which it was not a very good career move
if you're going into academia
and that your whole part of being in academia
is to pull in federal dollars to advance your research program
and putting a lot of time and effort
into studying a high-fat ketogenic diet.
There was no funding for this,
but I knew it worked, and I knew there was good science
that could be done to support this approach.
And then that springboarded my sort of path to where I am now.
And you're at USF, right, currently?
Yeah, University of South Florida,
specifically the Morsani College of Medicine,
and I also have an affiliation
with the Institute for Human and Machine Cognition, or IHMC,
and so I work in different capacities
through those two institutes.
One of the things I wanted to talk to you about
was you said a lot of your studies are in hyperbaric,
and is that specifically hyperbaric oxygen therapy?
Yeah, well, yeah, hyperbaric oxygen
like at a fundamental basic science level.
We do, I originally started,
the first project that I had was pretty esoteric,
is developing hyperbaric atomic force microscopy,
and atomic force microscopy will give you
like the scanning resolution of electron microscopy,
but you can image living tissue with it and cells.
So we were using this technology,
and then part of, I spent a number of years
putting a hyperbaric microscope inside of a customized,
an atomic force microscope inside a customized
hyperbaric chamber, and then using it
on a variety of different cell types.
So the question is, the question that,
the military was funding us for is like,
essentially what happens to cells inside the cell
when you hit it with a high concentration of oxygen?
We never knew the answer to this
because no one had a hyperbaric microscope, right?
So I started my research on looking at cells,
looking at mitochondria,
looking at free radical production in cells,
mitochondrial function, and things like that,
with muscle cells, brain cells, cancer cells,
human dermal fibroblast cells,
and doing a lot of research there.
And then later, I was able to get more funding
and expand hyperbaric oxygen research into animal models,
where we were looking at not only seizures,
but also looking at cancer.
And we published a number of studies
on using hyperbaric oxygen as a means
to further augment different cancer,
anti-cancer protocols.
And that would be with nutritional ketosis
and other things we're working on in the lab.
So, and then a couple years after doing animal research,
we got funding as a subcontract working at Duke,
at Duke, they have an amazing environmental research facility
that NASA uses and military uses,
where we have subjects on a ketogenic diet
that are being put inside a hyperbaric chamber.
And they use, we're getting tons of data from them,
blood data, blood gases, they go in on a standard diet,
and then they go in on a ketogenic diet
with ketone supplementation.
And then we look at their cognitive function,
their reaction time, they play a video game simulator,
they're exercising, like it's like probably
the craziest setup you can think about,
and we push them to the edge of a seizure
by giving them a very big dose of hyperbaric oxygen,
and we monitor their brain activity through EEG.
And then we essentially decompress
like right before they're gonna get hit by a seizure.
So we have sort of ways to predict it.
So there's that, so we moved from cells to mitochondria,
to cells, to animal studies,
and then to human clinical trials,
which is a registered clinical trial
on clinicaltrials.gov.
And then I myself and my wife were involved
with an undersea mission
where we lived in a hyperbaric environment.
For me, it was 10 days, and my wife was nine days,
and that's the NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations,
which is a hyperbaric mission where you live in saturation.
And if you live in saturation more than 24 hours,
you become an aquanaut.
So both of us have became aquanauts.
Just from our research background, our diving background,
we were selected for that mission,
where we get to train with astronauts.
It's part of the astronaut training program.
Oh, wow.
So we get to work with,
and my crew member, or my commander, Dr. Shell Lingren,
and Samantha Christopher Reddy,
who's an European Space Agency astronaut,
they were just selected to go up in April, I think, to ISS.
So they were both Nemo aquanauts with us.
So yeah, the hyperbaric stuff has been very interesting.
We went from cells to mitochondria, tissues, animals,
different types of animal models,
to human clinical trials,
to being research subjects ourselves,
where we're doing research on human subjects,
where we are the subject in a hyperbaric environment.
So I don't really talk about it that much.
Hyperbaric research is a big part of what we do,
and people know me as the keto guy,
or a ketogenic diet guy,
but that's very much interconnected with the hyperbaric world
because ketosis is neuroprotective
and has anti-seizure effects.
One of the reasons I want to talk to you about that
is because a really close friend of mine
just bought a hyperbaric chamber for himself.
Like, it's one of those consumer hyperbaric chambers
that the ball player is using and stuff.
And it's supposed to come in this week.
And he had to get an actual prescription written to buy it.
And it made me curious.
I'm like, are there any negative effects
to using these hyperbaric chambers?
And like, do you have to regulate yourself,
or is it okay to just get in this?
Because I plan on using his hyperbaric chamber.
Is it okay just to use it whenever you want,
or is there risks involved?
Well, I would highly recommend
getting hyperbaric medicine guidebook, which tells you,
so the oxygen is a drug.
And if right now we are breathing 20% oxygen,
so roughly speaking, 20.6%.
So, and the rest of it's nitrogen.
So most of our breath is actually nitrogen
that we're breathing in.
A little bit of CO2, a little bit of argon, some gas.
So if this room was filled with oxygen, 100% oxygen,
and we were kept in here,
and you came back three days later, we'd be dead.
So, and that's not even a hyperbaric pressure, right?
So if you replaced this room with oxygen, yeah, we would die.
We would get something called pulmonary oxygen toxicity.
Our lungs would just start blowing up
because it's producing oxygen free radicals.
And we would have edema,
and we would die a very painful death.
So you have to understand oxygen's very powerful drug
and at hyperbaric pressures,
which means we are at one atmosphere of oxygen now
when you increase the barometric pressure to two atmospheres
and then go to three atmospheres.
That's, every atmosphere is 10 meter of seawater,
or 33 feet.
So if you were to dive down to 10 meters or 33 feet,
that would be two atmospheres.
Another 10 meters, 66 feet, it would be three atmospheres.
At that hyperbaric pressure, what happens is the oxygen,
your hemoglobin's already saturated, right?
Because, but because of the increased barometric pressure,
the partial pressure of oxygen would increase
and you actually get more oxygen into the plasma
independent of hemoglobin.
And that would cause the partial pressure of oxygen
in your tissues and your brain to skyrocket.
And that produces oxidative stress
and that would kill you if you sustained it
for a long period of time.
So which happens in different military dives
and things like that.
So you have to adjust the ratio of nitrogen to oxygen,
in some cases helium and other breathing gases.
So getting back to, you know, you have a hyperbaric chamber.
So my question would be, is it a hard shell chamber?
Because a hard shell chamber, soft shell, okay.
So a soft shell chamber would really only go
to about 1.3 atmospheres.
So what that means is it can only basically take you
to a quarter of an atmosphere higher than we're at now.
So it's probably made out of a polymer, like a Kevlar,
even bigger, different ones.
So the chances of you hurting yourself, you know,
are far less likely, but if you just-
I'm gonna pull up the receipt for it, you keep going.
Okay, yeah, if you were to stay in that hyperbaric chamber
for a protracted period of time,
then you could potentially, you know, damage your lungs.
You're not going to get oxygen toxicity seizures
or CNS oxygen toxicity, which is it called,
because you need to be essentially at a higher pressure,
which would involve a hard shell chamber.
So a lot of the work that we do, I mean,
we have chambers that go to like 60, 70 atmospheres.
We have, you know, a lot of what we do is,
is within the military diving operations
of about five atmospheres and above.
But yeah, there's, you know,
I study the negative effects of hyperbaric oxygen
and that by looking at the various mechanistic things
that hyperbaric oxygen does, like, you know,
enhances wound healing, it decreases inflammation,
it activates stem cells.
Most of the people who email me are people
who are using hyperbaric oxygen to enhance
their athletic performance, to speed recovery.
They use it as a, like a new tropic.
So oxygen as a drug to increase, you know,
growth factors in the brain, like BDNF and,
and, you know, research was done to demonstrate,
and I think this research was done by a colleague
of mine, Dr. Steve Thaum,
when he was at University of Pennsylvania at the time.
He showed that hyperbaric oxygen
can increase stem cell production
and then the release of stem cells.
So there are various drugs that people take
to increase stem cell production
or you could use autologous stem cells,
you know, and inject them into yourself.
Or you could undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy
and actually get your body to coax,
your body to generating more stem cells.
So that can aid, that stem cells tend to get
into circulation and then they hone in on areas
that are damaged or inflamed
and then it augments recovery.
From there.
So it could be internal things as well as external wounds.
Basically, what are you saying?
When you say wound healing,
what do you define as like a wound, like a?
Yeah, so there's about 14 different FDA approved
applications for hyperbaric oxygen
and the big one is probably wound healing.
So if a facility around here, if you just search,
you know, where hyperbaric chambers around here,
they're using it for mostly diabetic wounds
for people who are overweight
and they have a wound like on their foot
and that because many people are overweight
or they have diabetes that impairs blood flow to the area
where a diabetic wound becomes resistant to healing.
And when you give hyperbaric oxygen,
it hyper oxygenates the wound and reverses hypoxia.
So it facilitates the, you know, the,
it increases the partial pressure of oxygen
at the wound site.
And by doing so, it increases energy within the wound.
So energy production could be down by 90%
like an ischemic wound, but when you hit it with oxygen,
then you're stimulating ATP production,
which is like our energy currency and stimulating metabolism
and the wound can then heal.
And then it has, so it's used mostly for wound healing,
gangrene, there are anaerobic bacteria that grow
in situations where there's not a lot of oxygen
and you can get an infection
and gas gangrene can kill you.
And the only thing that we know that can kill
this anaerobic bug is hyperbaric oxygen.
It's also used for decompression sickness
if you're diving, like even in recreational diving
and you stay down too long and you pop up to the surface,
the nitrogen's still in your system
and the bubbles are gonna wanna come out.
So it's called the bends underwater if you come up too fast.
But decompression sickness will kill you.
You can get an air embolism in your lung or your brain.
So if someone pops up to the surface too quick
because they have some kind of emergency
or something that person needs to go inside
a hyperbaric chamber and be slowly decompressed.
So the chambers around here,
90% of them are used for wound healing
and then also for diving for reversing
decompression sickness and carbon monoxide poisoning.
If you have carbon monoxide poisoning,
a way to save a life is the only way to do it
is really with hyperbaric oxygen.
So these are some of the applications.
And there are many including for cancer,
for like wound healing, if you have radiation,
if you're being treated with radiation
that cause radiation necrosis and hyperbaric oxygen
can reverse and heal that tissue
that has been radiated by radiation.
So that becomes a way where patients
can conceivably, if they've had radiation therapy,
they could get a prescription for hyperbaric oxygen.
And the prescription, you mentioned a prescription,
that's usually for levels of oxygen
that are above 1.4 atmospheres,
like two or 2.5 or even three atmospheres.
Really?
Yeah, cause that would require a hard shell chamber.
Yeah, this is called a respiro.
Respiro, and you know the-
This thing right here.
The working pressure of the chamber.
Oh yeah, that is a soft shell chamber.
Yeah, so yeah, I mean, if you're gonna get that
and have it installed in your house,
there's certain regulations you need to follow.
And you might have to have a hyperbaric tech come out
and set it up because you don't wanna mess around
with oxygen.
If you were to get a hard shell chamber,
then that's a whole nother set of regulations
and guidelines that you have to follow.
But most of our research had been done
within the pressure ranges that would require
a hard shell chamber.
But I do believe that there's a lot of benefit
that you can get from these soft shell chambers.
And it's quite a bit safer too.
Yeah, that's the one that LeBron uses, I know.
I've seen videos of him using that one, yeah.
Yeah, so he's using it to augment his recovery.
Like in between, when he has done the playoffs,
and they have a game every other day,
and he's spending 40 minutes a game
sprinting up and back and forth on a full court,
it's, I think he uses that on his off day
to kind of like speed up his recovery.
Cause I'm sure there's a lot of wear and tear
on your muscles and joints and stuff.
Yeah, so I communicate with a number of NFL guys,
even I think around here, Vinnie Testiverty's around here.
And I remember he came to one of my talks actually
at the College of Medicine at USF,
and he was pretty cool to talk with.
I think he has his own hyperbaric chamber.
Yeah, I communicate with quite a few NHL, NFL guys,
you know, military guys that are using it
to speed recovery.
And LeBron James, I think he's on a keto diet too,
or low carb diet, I think.
Really?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, like low sugar, low,
I mean, a lot of these guys, I haven't personally,
but I've communicated with people who, you know,
have coached him in some ways.
Yeah, I've heard things about him.
I've heard people talk about,
people who are close to him talk about what his diet is,
and I've seen videos of him talking about,
when they're in the playoffs towards the end of the season,
when it's coming down to the line,
that he really, really goes out and he cuts out carbs,
eats a lot of steaks, a lot of high fat stuff,
and completely cuts out sugar 100%, as well as the oxygen.
So I don't know, I know he spends,
he's known for spending more money on his body
than any other athlete.
He claims that he spends over a million dollars a year
on his body specifically, whatever that means.
That's easy, I mean, because there's,
I mean, there's a lot of drugs and stuff too,
I guess you could take to enhance performance,
but these guys have to, I don't know how they get tested,
but for supplements, it has to be NSF certified to be used.
Yeah, there's a lot of things that you could do.
A lot of it's untested and, you know,
not really a lot of science to back it up,
but that's really just because
there's not a whole lot of funding to go into
evaluating various technologies
for enhancing athletic performance.
Many of these things are, you know,
hyperbaric oxygen has been,
all the funding goes to wound healing.
Like, you know, managing ischemic wounds
is a multi-billion dollar healthcare problem right now.
I mean, it's been, and we don't have anything
to basically speed wounds.
I had a PhD student that worked under me
that looked at ischemic wounds,
and one of the biggest things
that enhanced the wound healing process
was the ketogenic diet and ketone supplements.
So all the wound healing, you know,
technologies and patents out there
are about putting things onto wound
to augment wound healing,
but when we change our metabolic physiology,
we are lowering blood glucose,
lowering insulin, reducing inflammation.
So that speeds, greatly enhances blood flow
by like 20 to 30 to even 40%.
And then the ketogenic diet
or even exogenous ketones
increases something called adenosine.
Adenosine's a vasodilator,
so we get more blood flow to the region,
and that blood that's flowing into the region
has ketones, and ketones are metabolic substrates
that can reactivate cells,
and they have anti-inflammatory effects,
but when you increase circulation
and you have ketones in circulation
and you're reducing glucose,
which could be pro-inflammatory,
when glucose is low, ketones are elevated, right?
If you're on a ketogenic diet
or you take a ketone supplement.
So those ketones can then kind of aid in that,
enhancing the metabolic state of the wound,
which is really the definition
of impaired wound healing is that there's low energy,
state, low blood flow.
And yeah, we're sitting on some papers now,
I need to get out,
but she did her PhD dissertation on that.
And when that's coupled with hyperbaric oxygen,
when you couple ketone supplementation
of the ketogenic diet with hyperbaric oxygen,
that's greatly enhancing the wound healing process.
And one could extend that when we work out,
we are basically, you know,
you're trying to enhance wound healing,
you know, your body is banged up,
you know, tissue is damaged,
and then you have tissue remodeling,
that's part of the adaptive process to training,
when we train a muscle, we break it down,
and the adaptive process training
is skeletal muscle protein synthesis, remodeling,
and then the faster we can do that,
the faster we can get back into the game.
And you talked about like the stem cell production
and stem cell release,
especially when it comes to,
I can understand how it can help heal people
that are affected by radiation and chemotherapy
when it comes to cancer.
Could it be used as a replacement for chemotherapy
or radiation to any extent?
I know it's obviously scientifically not there yet,
but do you think that's a possibility?
Well, there's a couple things to like, you know,
to answer that question.
When people do undergo chemo and radiation,
sometimes their blood counts drop, like a certain,
their hematocrit drops, and white blood cells drop.
So, and stem cells can drop too,
and hyperbaric oxygen could be a way to augment that.
If we have, the Israelis showed that with hyperbaric oxygen,
that it can actually increase HIF1-alpha,
which is counterintuitive,
because HIF1-alpha is hypoxia-inducable factor alpha.
When we undergo hyperbaric oxygen,
and then we come out of the chamber,
our body senses relative hypoxia,
just because of the relative changes,
and that can stimulate HIF1-alpha,
and then maybe actually increase our red blood cell count.
So, some athletes may do hyperbaric oxygen
to actually increase their red blood cell count.
So, that's a little bit peripheral to the conversation.
And what does that do?
To increase your red blood cell count, what does that mean?
Yeah, oh, that means like you have more red blood cells,
so you have greater oxygen carrying capacity.
And so, athletes, especially like cyclists,
and elite-level cyclists,
one of the go-to drugs in that world is erythropoietin,
or EPO, and then EPO will increase your red blood cell count.
That increases something called your hematocrit,
and ultimately, that's giving your body an advantage
because you can carry more oxygen.
So, hyperbaric oxygen may be able to do that,
and it's nice that you're augmenting your own physiology
to increase the production of those cells.
But your question with cancer in that,
so we know radiation and chemotherapy work
in killing cancer cells
by augmenting reactive oxygen species,
or oxygen-free radicals, right?
We know about free radicals.
So, with radiation, if you apply radiation to a tumor,
the radiation nixed the DNA,
and that's one way to kill it,
but most of the radiation damage
is actually a result of increasing oxygen-free radicals, right?
So, that's how radiation primarily works.
Chemotherapeutic agents that kill cancer cells,
kill cancer cells by increasing oxidative stress
in the cancer cells.
But it does it, both of these modalities are,
chemotherapy and radiation
are very potent carcinogenic agents.
So, we are using a potent carcinogenic modality
to kill cancer cells, right?
And it's doing it primarily through augmenting
something called oxidative stress or oxygen-free radicals.
So, hyperbaric oxygen is a way to naturally,
by increasing the partial pressure of oxygen in our body
and reversing tumor hypoxia.
As a tumor grows, it outstrips its ability
to supply oxygen because the blood vessels
can't keep up to the expanding biomass of the tumor.
So, the core of the tumor often becomes hypoxic.
And when you put someone inside a hyperbaric chamber,
that does a number of things.
It reverses the tissue hypoxia inside the tumor.
So, the low oxygen in the tumor is reversed
with high oxygen, hyperoxia.
And when you hyperoxygenate a tumor tissue,
that causes a massive burst in oxygen-free radicals
for a number of reasons.
The oxygen can get in the tumor
because the oxygen is not being carried by red blood cells,
which get caught in the little blood vessels.
The oxygen is actually dissolved into the plasma,
independent of hemoglobin.
So, this is very important because the pressure component
of hyperbaric oxygen,
which means the increase in barometric pressure
literally pushes the oxygen into the plasma.
And then it could get into the little nooks and crannies,
if you will, of the tumor.
And the tumor goes from a tissue PO2
of like two or three millimeters of mercury
to like 150 to like 2,000 millimeters of mercury,
which is very, very high.
And when all that oxygen is inside the tumor,
because the tumor is like a bunch of screwed up cells
that are also degrading, you have a lot of heme,
like heme proteins are being degraded,
and you have a lot of free iron.
And oxygen in the presence of free iron
in that environment drives something called
the Fenton reaction.
And then you have a massive burst of oxygen-free radicals,
and it's driving different pathways
that kick on cell death within the tumor.
Now, this can happen in normal healthy tissue,
but it's greatly augmented in cancer tissue
because the cancer tissue's relative state is low oxygen.
And when you reverse the tumor hypoxia
and hyperoxygenate it,
you get a correspondingly higher burst
of oxygen-free radicals.
It's because the relative change is gonna be higher, right?
And then the oxygen-free radicals feed into a pathway
because of the free iron that contribute
to more reactive intermediates like the hydroxyl radical,
and these things can help to essentially kill the cancer
from the inside out.
An important thing to note is that hyperbaric oxygen
may further enhance the cancer-killing effects
of radiation and chemotherapy when they're done together.
So, yeah, I believe that hyperbaric oxygen
should be used for many different tumor types,
and I think it has a lot of potential.
I mean, in our lab, we coupled it with the ketogenic diet
and saw that we could extend survival
in mouse models of metastatic cancer,
and that motivated us and many others to study this.
When it hyperoxygenates these tumors
and you explained how the oxygen-free radicals explode,
what does that physically do to the tumor itself?
The tumor will shrink, will it die?
Like what happens to the actual tumor or the cancer tissue?
Yeah, so if we're talking about a solid tumor
and then you apply hyperbaric oxygen, for example,
two to three atmospheres of oxygen for 60 minutes,
three times a week, something like that,
so that's a pretty big dose.
What is happening to the tumor is that it's,
the tumor, like I mentioned,
especially a growing tumor mass becomes hypoxic,
and then when you're in the chamber
and experiencing a high level of oxygen,
and if you were to put an electrode
inside the tumor and measure the oxygen,
the level of oxygen would go up like 2,000 times.
So when that oxygen gets super high in the tumor,
it's stimulating the production of these free radicals,
which then kick on a number of different pathways
that can essentially rupture the mitochondria,
start spitting out oxygen, that creates oxidative stress,
and then you oxidize membrane lipids,
you oxidize proteins, you oxidize nucleic acids.
This creates a lot of stress to the cell,
and then cells literally start blowing up, rupturing.
So when I was, some of the early studies that I did
was actually developing hyperbaric atomic force microscopy,
and then later I made it a laser scanning
confocal microscopy unit to this microscope,
and it's inside the chamber,
and we were looking at different cell types,
and one of the cell types were glialblastoma cell types,
which is a type of brain cancer,
and this particular cell type was U87 glialblastoma multi-forming.
So it's not super important,
but it was derived from a patient,
I think a 44-year-old patient or whatever.
So I had the cell line preserved, we plated the cells,
we put it inside the hyperbaric chamber,
and we were looking at them,
and then we hit the cells with hyperbaric oxygen,
and I noticed that the mitochondria
started pumping out tons of superoxide.
I had to die to measure that,
and then I would see the mitochondria disappear,
they were blowing up underneath the microscope,
and as we were monitoring the fluorescent signal,
which is the increase in the brightness of the cells
corresponded to the production of oxygen free radicals,
as the cells became brighter,
I saw the mitochondria disappearing.
That means that they were blowing up, they were rupturing,
and then I started to see cells dying
at a far faster rate than any other cell that I looked at,
including smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts,
rat neurons, and different cell types.
So I thought this was very interesting,
and that was done maybe in 2007 and eight,
and then a couple years passed,
and I realized that this was an important observation,
and no one made the observation ever
because no one had a microscope
inside a hyperbaric chamber.
So I reached out to different people
at the Moffitt Cancer Center,
and then experts who studied cancer,
and they said, what you're observing
in these cancer cells is probably due
to something called the Warburg effect.
So Otto Warburg really was noted for,
he got the Nobel Prize for his work on the mitochondria
and mitochondrial respiration,
and he had a theory on cancer
that cancer was a metabolic disease,
and that impaired mitochondrial activity,
or what we call cellular respiration,
impaired respiration would lead
to compensatory compensation, glycolytic compensation.
So the cells, as the mitochondria became defective,
there would be an up-regulation in glucose consumption
and glucose energy pathway called glycolysis.
So his whole theory kind of was hinged
upon damaged respiration, so damaged mitochondria.
And when I was recording from these cancer cells,
I noticed that they had a lot of mitochondria,
and there was no doubt that their mitochondria
were working in some capacity,
but I also noticed that when I increased the level of oxygen,
the mitochondria had a rate of free radical production
that was many, many fold higher than normal healthy cells,
meaning that when we produce energy,
when our mitochondria produce energy,
and about 80 to 90% of our energy
comes from mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation,
a consequence of that energy production
is the formation of an oxygen free radical called superoxide,
and then that can go to hydrogen peroxide
and ultimately potentially hydrogen hydroxyl radical
to more reactive intermediates.
So that superoxide is always being produced,
and it's like the exhaust on a car.
It's like the toxic thing that's being produced,
but oxygen free radicals are also signaling molecules,
so there's a signaling function
in addition to being a toxic free radical,
so eliminating them completely is probably not a good idea.
There's a balance, like a redox balance.
So with the tumor tissue is putting out proportionately
far more oxygen free radicals
in response to the oxygen that I'm giving it.
So giving tons of antioxidants are really not gonna work
because the mitochondria are already defective, right?
So what I was witnessing is that
I was witnessing damage respiration and the mitochondria.
When we talk about respiration,
we're talking about mitochondrial ATP production.
It's like instead of respiring because they use oxygen.
So with cancer cells, you have damaged mitochondria,
and we call that their way of making energy
is called cellular respiration
or oxidative phosphorylation.
And when you give the substrate for energy production,
which includes oxygen to the mitochondria,
they produce proportionately more oxygen free radicals
and they're essentially killing themselves
from the inside out
when you expose cancer cells to high pressure oxygen.
This is what we saw,
this is what I saw underneath the microscope.
So it made sense to me that this was happening
because of the Warburg effect,
which means cancer cells have rates of sugar consumption
that are like 100 to 200 times higher.
And they're using sugar as a fuel for two different reasons.
One is because the mitochondria are defective
and there's impaired mitochondrial ATP production.
Another reason cancer cells use glycolysis to get energy
is that it feeds into a pathway of biosynthesis.
So it's necessary for biosynthetic pathways
to generate the expanding biomass of the tumor.
Using glucose in cancer cells,
the cancer cells can also divert it to,
it can increase the pentose phosphate pathway,
which is a way that the cancer cells
can actually increase their antioxidant capacity
through this path.
So there's a number of different reasons,
but the important thing to know is that
cancer cells have defective mitochondria
and because cancer cells have defective mitochondria,
we can exploit that defect with hyperbaric oxygen
by using that as a tool to further increase
oxidative stress and selectively in cancer cells.
When we hit our body with hyperbaric oxygen,
when we go inside a hyperbaric chamber,
we have an increase in oxidative stress
all through our body,
but our normal healthy tissues have the adaptive response
that we can increase our endogenous antioxidant enzyme.
So our tissues actually end up stronger
because like exercise,
when we exercise and do a super hard workout
and if we were to take our blood or take our tissue sample,
you would see a lot of bad things going on.
So that's actually the stress of exercise, right?
So the adaptive response that comes after that
makes our tissues stronger
and it up regulates a number of pathways.
I mean, if you're training and lifting weights,
you have skeletal muscle remodeling
through protein synthesis
and an up regulation of enzymes and things.
So cancer cells really can't do that
because when you hit cancer cells really hard
with a high level of oxygen,
it can actually trigger cellular apoptosis and necrosis,
which you can start killing off cancer cells.
They simply do not have the capacity to deal
with the massive burst of oxygen free radicals
that accompany a big hit of hyperbaric oxygen.
Same thing applies with a chemotherapeutic agent.
So chemotherapeutic agents,
they're not selectively augmenting oxidative stress.
Radiation can be targeted to the tumor,
but it has a lot of off target effects
and then you get a lot of damage.
Plus that radiation, the chemo is also creating
more mutations in the tumor that could cause the tumor
to mutate in a way to become more aggressive.
So where it's hyperbaric oxygen,
it is a more gentle approach
to increase oxygenation in the body
and then you have selective hyper oxygenation
and far greater oxidative stress in the tumor tissue
for a number of different reasons that I went through.
But the tumor environment is a really good environment
to apply hyperbaric oxygen
because you have a lot of dead cells and a lot of free heme
and that creates a lot of iron.
So when you apply oxygen,
it's almost like throwing gasoline on the fire
and then you can to kill tumors.
So it all sounds really nice in theory
and it works really well in cell model systems
and animal model systems.
High oxygen, no sugar.
High oxygen and no sugar.
Yeah, when you couple high oxygen with very low sugar
or glucose, right, like a ketogenic diet,
by restricting sugar that actually can restrict
something called the pentose phosphate pathway
and by restricting cellular antioxidants like glutathione,
you basically impair the cancer cells ability
to protect itself while you're hitting it
with high levels of oxygen.
So in theory, I mean, this is all textbook stuff
that we know there's not a whole lot of motivation,
though, from federal centers,
organizations that fund cancer research
to really further study hyperbaric oxygen.
We just know that when you put certain patients
and you give them hyperbaric oxygen, they do much better.
But we're basically using hyperbaric oxygen
in the current scenario to reverse radiation necrosis.
So patients that are receiving radiation,
they get really bad wounds,
you give them hyperbaric oxygen and boom,
they recover really fast, their wounds heal up
and then the cancer, you know,
they have much better prognosis.
Why do you think that is?
Why is so much of the clinical budget
or clinical research trial budget
dedicated to, why isn't it dedicated
to things like hyperbaric oxygen or diet,
such as a ketogenic diet, restricting sugar and glucose,
when clearly there's tons of research and science
to back that, one of the things that I sent you
in the email was, one of the things that came across
was like 75%, I think 70 to 90% of US clinical research
funding is dedicated to drugs and medical devices,
I think it was.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, the National Institutes of Health
is a major funder of research, right?
And I think at least $50 billion, I think,
per year to clinical research
and that could be drugs.
And I know a small minority, not even 1% of that
is going into nutrition research and with cancer.
Which is insane.
Yeah, and with cancer, you have a number of different,
you know, things that are being funded,
it's over, for 2022, it's gonna be over $200 billion
in funding and pretty much no funding goes
into cancer prevention, right?
So there's so much that we could be doing now
to prevent cancer from being a problem in the first place.
So we could prevent a lot of cancer
through lifestyle interventions,
like really, really, really move the needle,
like it's a huge lever to pull.
So with, you know, there's not a whole lot of incentive
for funding nutrition, not a whole lot of incentive
for funding hyperbaric oxygen.
And I think that's part of the reason.
And it's just easier to prescribe a drug, you know,
and treat someone with the drug.
And drugs do hold a lot of promise,
we do drug research for our lab.
Yeah, well, you're big into pharmacology,
are you, at least you used to me?
I'm in a pharmacology department.
Right, right.
I mean, we've looked at things like people,
you might be familiar with like metformin,
for example, metformin's a type two diabetes drug.
And when we give it to cells, cancer cells in culture,
more cells die, when we give it to animals
that have, you know, metastatic cancer,
different tumors, they live a little bit longer.
But it's not as much as if we apply
a well-formulated ketogenic diet.
You know, we've used something called dichloroacetate.
You know, my colleagues do drug research
with a variety of different drugs.
And when you compare, you know,
research and preclinical animal models
and with the ketogenic diet
and what the ketogenic diet can do
in extending life and reducing tumor,
it's really remarkable.
So, and some drugs actually work much, much better
in the context of a ketogenic diet.
So there's certain metabolic drugs like
PI3 kinase inhibitors, for example, developed by Luke Cantley.
I believe that they're largely mostly efficacious
in the context of a ketogenic diet because,
well, this particular drug,
there's a counter-regulatory effect
which causes an increasing insulin.
And when you couple the drug with the ketogenic diet,
that suppresses the hormone insulin
and then that actually makes the drug work.
So a lot of the effects of the ketogenic diet
is not just simply due by reducing sugar,
but it has a major hormonal effect on the body,
including insulin, the hormone insulin,
and then insulin signaling in general, you know,
we're talking about AMP kinase and mTOR
and all these can go down that route if you want to,
but it's hitting many downstream pathways
that the pharmaceutical companies are scrambling
to develop drugs for, you know, these pathways
like mTOR specifically.
So the ketogenic diet does that naturally.
It does it in a way that it's not only hitting one pathway,
that it's hitting many different pathways
in synergistically, if you will.
So by lowering glucose, lowering insulin
and insulin related signaling and also elevating ketones
and then ketones by themselves have anti-cancer effects,
anti-inflammatory effects and neuroprotective effects.
So if you put a brain tumor patient onto standard of care,
which includes chemo and radiation
and you put them on a ketogenic diet,
the ketogenic diet is putting metabolic stress on the tumor
and making the tumor selectively vulnerable
to those treatment modalities, including radiation and chemo.
It helps you kill more tumor.
Whereas the healthy tissues are benefiting
from the elevated ketones because the ketones
are actually protecting the healthy tissues
from the inflammatory effects of radiation,
the reactive oxygen species, so they are neuroprotective.
I mean, we know that sort of from a lot of the research
that we've done, right?
Because we hit cells, we hit animals, we hit humans
with very high levels of oxygen
and it basically causes a massive burst of oxygen
free radicals similar to radiation.
But we are applying, we are doing it in the context
of elevated ketones.
And we typically do that with like an exogenous ketone,
like a ketone ester or a ketone salt formulation.
So we deliver that.
Yes, yes.
The keto start product is the product that I use
on a routine basis and there are more powerful forms
of ketones in terms of esters,
but I probably wouldn't want to take them on a daily basis.
But under the context of certain extreme environments,
you can deliver ketones in a dose dependent manner
to be neuroprotective and also to improve
performance resilience.
So there's a breakdown of performance
under certain environments.
And we think that with the correct formulation of ketones
or different energy intermediates,
we can preserve that performance in extreme environments.
What did you say the number was again
for clinical research in the US?
How many billion?
Yeah, I think, well, I'm just talking about the NIH.
Just the NIH.
Yeah, I mean, you have Department of Defense, NIH,
many different organizations, foundations
and things like that, American Cancer Society.
So for NIH, they have about 50 billion, 50 billion.
50 billion, and that's not a whole whole.
When you think about cancer research in general,
just from all the different organizations,
about two, this year it's gonna be about $200 billion.
But the budget for nutrition is like less than 1% of that.
Less than 1% of that.
And the United States is, what are we talking about here?
The number 68th in the world in healthy life expectancy.
Yeah, I didn't know it was that low,
but yeah, it's pretty low.
And I'd like to just go back to nutrition.
When I talk about the NIH-funded nutrition,
they're really looking at growth and development
and preventing nutritional deficiencies.
And maybe there's a big push now for NIH
to understand personalized diets,
like how certain diets affect different populations.
But it's not in the research that I'm talking about.
It's not developing healthy eating to prevent or delay cancer
or to increase your outcome, to improve your outcome
if you have cancer.
There's just not a lot of research in that area.
Although I'd like to say that the National Cancer Institute
is because there's so much pressure
and because there's an acknowledgement that cancer
is in part a metabolic disease
and probably in part a genetic disease too.
There's a dynamic interplay between the two.
The National Cancer Institute,
they recognize that nutrition is a big lever to pull.
And there's a lot of research funding going into this idea
of using nutrition to improve certain drug therapies, right?
So the drug therapies are still the main,
treatment and nutrition is just really brought in
to enhance the effects of certain drugs.
So that's so backwards.
Well, I kind of understand, so from the perspective,
if you have a particular tumor type
that you know could be responsive.
And then for example, a treatment has limited efficacy
and it could be a chemotherapeutic drug,
could be radiation, could be immune-based therapy.
Let's bring the ketogenic diet in or nutrition therapies
to make that standard of care, which is not working work.
So it's thought to be unethical to use nutrition
as a standalone therapy.
So most of, 10 years ago when I realized
that the ketogenic diet had the potential
to be an anti-cancer therapy for cancer,
I went to clinicaltrials.gov and I saw maybe two
or three different clinical trials.
If you go to clinicaltrials.gov right now,
clinicaltrials.gov and type in ketogenic diet,
you're gonna see dozens, if not probably well over 30,
maybe 40 clinical trials with the ketogenic diet.
So that's like an explosion of ketogenic diet research.
And the majority of them are,
very few of them are standalone therapies.
Most of them are using the ketogenic diet
to augment immune therapy,
to augment a metabolic drug
or to augment standard of care.
These therapies are what really generate the revenue
for cancer treatment centers.
You're not gonna get, a ketogenic diet
is not going to generate revenue for,
so that's kind of, you know.
But oxygen therapy could, right?
Oxygen therapy could, yeah, yeah.
This is like all the rich people,
you can afford those things, they're so expensive.
Hyperbaric oxygen chambers for your house.
But you know, they do have the centers
where you can go and rent one by the hour or whatever.
Wound healing centers.
Wound healing centers, right?
Yeah, they're really big.
And so, I think cancer centers should be leveraging
wound healing centers and sending people
into multi-place chambers when they're undergoing
their chemotherapy.
There's a lot that we don't know.
So every person's response, almost like to diet,
your individual response to hyperbaric oxygen may vary
and the dose may be different between different people, right?
So the dose, the timing, the frequency, the duration,
all these things need to be taken into account
when, if we're talking about using
hyperbaric oxygen as a treatment.
So, and these are a lot of unknowns.
And I suspect that's a big reason.
In the world of wound healing,
it's just five days a week, two atmospheres,
60 minutes or whatever.
It's just like this cookie cutter approach.
But when you're dealing with a cancer patient
who may have impaired immune system,
who may have, if they're really old,
maybe you're pushing oxidative stress too high,
like in their body and they need.
So with our protocol, that's actually why
I did not do five days a week.
That's why we did Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
It was kind of convenient and fit in with a week.
But the idea was to come in with a big hit of oxygen,
really stress out the cancer cells,
and have one day for the body to naturally adapt
and up-regulate its own antioxidant systems.
And then come in on Wednesday and hit it again.
And then a day of recovery and Friday,
come in and hit it again.
And this seemed to work really good right out of the gate.
So we were just like, well, let's just stick with this.
And then we did try lower levels of oxygen.
So we went from like 2.5 atmospheres of oxygen,
because a lot of people kept asking me,
they have access to a soft chamber, but not a hard chamber.
So we went and did a mini pilot study
with just 1.5 atmospheres of oxygen.
And we saw trends for improved survival,
but it was not statistically significant.
So when people ask me, does lower levels of oxygen,
I have cancer and I want to use a soft chamber.
I have to say, there was no effect.
We didn't see an effect.
There was trends, but it was not statistically significant
with the-
Really?
It was not with like eight animals or 10 animals
or something like that.
So I had a hunch that if I was to get more funding
and then we could boost the animals to 20 or 30 animals
per group that we would get the power
to get statistical significance.
But when people ask me if lower levels of oxygen would work,
I have to say, well, we didn't show an effect,
statistically significant effect.
So I advocate for using a higher level of oxygen
to get to two atmospheres.
Two atmospheres, unless, you know,
if someone has like a cancer in the lung
or maybe if they have a brain cancer,
then you could be more susceptible
to oxygen toxicity seizures.
So it's good to start low, you know,
and do a couple of sessions low and then work up.
So the great thing about hyperbaric oxygen therapy
unlike standard care therapy like chemo and radiation,
you come out of the other side with standard of care,
you come out of the other side like a broken individual.
I mean, you're hit by a truck.
Yeah, your whole body, it is.
It's like patients say it's like
they got ran over by a truck, they ran a marathon,
and then a truck ran them over at the end.
I mean, they're really in bad shape.
Whereas with hyperbaric oxygen,
it's like actually enhancing your own body's resilience.
Like it's improving stem cells,
it's like augmenting, you know,
your immune system in ways to reduce inflammation,
it's improving your overall health.
That can't be said for any standard of care chemo,
immune or radiation protocol.
Everything's, you know, it's just gonna bang you up.
So we are very motivated to develop
a comprehensive non-toxic metabolic approach
to treating cancer.
So that includes like nutrition
and hyperbaric oxygen, of course, supplementation,
but also exercise.
We have not done a whole lot with exercise,
but we notice that exercise can move metabolic markers
in the direction that would improve outcomes.
So we're gonna set up experiments to do exercise.
What about like anti-aging and longevity?
Like what sort of effects can, like for example,
my friend who just bought this oxygen tank,
he wants to use it like an hour a day.
And every other day, he has these people come to his house
and give him, I think like 500 milligrams of NAD.
And he also takes tons of supplements.
I mean, every other day, 500 milligrams of NAD.
Plus he wants to do the hyperbaric oxygen
and all this stuff.
Like what sort of studies has you seen?
It's just like, as far as like maintaining a healthy,
active lifestyle for like athletes using this kind of stuff.
How does that benefit, even for like lifting
and exercise and stuff like that?
Yeah, I probably get a couple emails every week,
not every day.
At one point it was like every day
about the longevity effects.
Cause the Israelis published studies
showing that you can increase your telomeres, right?
So, which is a marker for longevity and aging.
So there was quite a bit of work done, as I mentioned,
when you're exposed to hyperbaric oxygen,
it augments your endogenous antioxidant system.
So that includes like enzymes like glutathione,
superoxide, dismutase.
These are things that your body produces
to protect you from the environment,
from oxidative stress.
And oxidative stress basically causes us to age.
So like rust oxidizes, so it ages.
So our bodies oxidize from the inside out.
Hyperbaric oxygen may be a way to delay that,
but I'm skeptical of it.
The NAD question is like an interesting one.
So I have been using a supplement
that's NMN and also Resveratrol.
So-
Is that the Verso stuff?
Yeah, Verso.
I got some of that too.
Oh, do you?
Yeah.
Yeah, I know the owners of the company very well.
I was actually, I guess I could say this,
I served on federal study sections and everything
where we evaluated the effects of NMN,
nicotinamide riboside,
and nicotinamide mononucleotide.
So, and I was always very skeptical
and gave like a lukewarm review
to many of these grants that were,
because I was not convinced that you could take it orally
and that it would end up in the cells of the brain,
that the gut would essentially render it inactive.
So your friend, I think, mentioned you did an NAD drip,
right?
Yeah, he does them every other day.
Yeah, 500 milligrams.
Yeah, that's a pretty, that'll get it done, 500 milligrams.
So that will probably get into cells.
So that's probably offering a benefit,
but I am convinced that the Verso product, for one thing,
and we're just friends with them,
no affiliation or anything.
So that's a product that I use
that if when I bumped up the dose
to doubling the recommended dose,
which, and then I had a stint with COVID
and I actually bumped it up to 12 capsules a day.
And I think I remember-
12 capsules of that stuff?
12 capsules, yeah.
Oh my God.
So, but I'm convinced that I bounced back really fast
once I started to do that,
because I had not been taking it actually,
and we could talk about COVID a little bit,
but I had, we were traveling
and you're supposed to keep it refrigerated
and I didn't bring it with me
and then we got back from traveling.
And then my wife and I came down with COVID
and I noticed at when it peaked
when my fever was highest,
then I started taking it
and then I started improving pretty rapidly after that.
But I've talked to enough people
to convince me that a large dose of NMN,
the Versa product or other products,
although I think Versa is probably superior
to most out there.
And then the IV, I've talked to quite a few people
who are getting NAD drips
and they're claiming, you know,
it's pretty effective
as far as increasing their energy
and it's a subtle increase in energy.
It's not like a caffeine hit or anything.
And I noticed it when I was tracking my exercise activity,
in particular, I swim pretty much every day
and it gave me a second wind and swimming
when I bumped up the dose to,
which was like double what they're recommending on the bottle.
In the beginning, I didn't notice anything,
but my wife noticed something,
which was curious to me
because she never notices anything, anything she does.
So she was telling me that it works
and she stopped taking it
and then she felt a decrease,
like she went back to normal,
then she started taking it again
and this is, my wife doesn't BS anything.
So it's like, so I got a little bit curious.
So then I took it and didn't really notice anything,
but then I doubled the dose
and I obsessively track everything.
So I tracked my laps
and how I feel subjectively and objectively,
you know, I timed myself
and how I feel subjectively too.
And then I definitely noticed
after two or three days of doubling the dose
that I got like the second wind.
And that was very interesting to me.
During the exercise.
During the exercise.
Yeah, yeah, I didn't notice it.
Lifting weights didn't make me stronger or anything,
but I noticed during aerobic physical activity
in the context of pushing my body harder.
So once the activity started to get hard
when I usually give up or fail
or have a performance decrement,
that's when it was like working.
That's when I subjectively felt it was working.
And then that actually aligns really well
with a number of people that I'm communicating with,
athletes and scientists and actually the data too.
When you, you know, push mice or rats to a certain point,
it gives them that extra little boost.
And the same thing I could say with like exogenous ketones.
Like I take exogenous ketones during the day,
it gives me a little like new tropic boost
to have more, you know, brain energy.
And I don't really recognize the benefits
when I'm lifting weights,
although it may help with the recovery
and adaptive processes.
When I put myself in a situation aerobically,
if I'm, you know, pushing beyond that typical limit,
that's when I noticed that, you know,
two, three, maybe 4% boost.
I know that you were talking about
how you fasted for seven days
and you dead lifted like an insane amount of weight.
I talked, I told you last time,
after I did a, the first time I did a five to six day fast
on the fifth day, I was able to do pull-ups.
Like three times the amount of pull-ups
I'd normally am allowed to do.
Like my body lets me do with very, very, very little work.
Like it wasn't nearly as hard as it normally is,
which is very strange.
And then also I played basketball for two hours
and I didn't have the fatigue or like the,
the side stitch cramp that you get
when you're, you know, overexerting yourself.
Like just that alone was enough to convince me that,
you know, whatever it was that I was getting
from that extended fast, whether it be the ketones,
I thought it must have been the ketones,
you know, my, the fuel not was not glycogen.
You know, that's what convinced me,
which that's what introduced me to you.
That's what it convinced me to try the ketogenic diet
and then eventually low carbs.
And, you know, since then I haven't been able
to maintain a strict ketogenic diet.
I've cut out a lot of carbs in my life.
I used to eat pasta probably two days a week.
Now I haven't eaten, I don't eat,
I just replace that with like high fat, low carb meals.
I don't know, is there, do you think there's a benefit
to if somebody is not necessarily following
a strict ketogenic diet, ketogenic diet every day?
Say somebody eats a couple plates of pasta a week.
Replacing those couple of plates of pasta every week
over a period of a couple years
with a high fat, low carb meal.
So it's not gonna necessarily put them in ketosis,
but it's gonna cut out the amount of carbs
they're consuming over a long period of time.
Do you think there's any benefits to that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So it's a spectrum, right?
So your metabolism is a spectrum
and the output would be your respiratory quotient,
which is your O2 consumption, CO2 production.
It comes out as an equation in expired air.
So as we reduce carbohydrates and when we reduce sugar
and we add more fat in, we start to oxidize more fat.
Our bodies are, we're omnivores, we are great
in that we burn what we feed our bodies.
And if we can adapt our metabolism over time
to be more metabolically flexible, which means,
and we should do this, we should eat,
we should vary our macronutrient ratios
and things like that.
But if we simply titrate the carbohydrates down,
typical US carbohydrate consumption anywhere from two,
300, maybe athletes, 400 grams of carbs a day,
if we back that down to like, maybe start 200
and then go 100 and then drop it,
then we're shifting our metabolism to burn more fat
and less glucose, right?
And when in regards to low-carbon ketogenic diets,
the more you do it, the easier it gets
and the more benefits you derive from it
because you're getting more adaptive effects from it.
So a scenario would be that if you go on a ketogenic diet
and follow it for a couple of months,
or we did this with rats where we put them
on a ketogenic diet and then we take them off
the ketogenic diet and put them back on the ketogenic diet.
Again, they make ketones much faster
once we switch back to a ketogenic diet.
So we call that a metabolic switch.
You can hop in and out quickly.
Yeah, so this metabolic switch,
we noticed though that older rats
don't have that robust metabolic switch as much,
but if we do intermittent fasting is a way to increase that.
So there are different approaches you could take
to get your body.
I think your listeners really want to be more fat adapted
like coax their body into burning more fat,
either dietary fat or fat on their body, obviously.
So one way to do that would be
to simply restrict the carbohydrates.
It does not need to be ketogenic.
You don't have to like be in a state of super low glucose,
low insulin to be making ketones.
So that has benefits and can be therapeutic
for many different things, right?
But it doesn't, you could be burning your body fat
at a much higher rate just by reducing carbohydrates
from, and it's relatively speaking, right?
So if you're eating 200 grams of carbs
and you just drop it down to like 50 to 100 grams of carbs,
you're gonna be burning like twice as much fat, like literally.
So your body is going to tap into its fat reserves
and your dietary fat will be higher too.
If you shift, you know, if you drop carbs,
you gotta replace it with something.
You could do protein and fat.
So the more we do that, there's adaptive processes
that happen in our liver, at the level of the muscle,
and even our brain, we start transporting ketones
across the blood-brain barrier,
and then our brain starts using ketones for fuel.
And not only using ketones for fuel,
but the brain adapts to using lower levels of glucose,
which means, and you see this with people with diabetes,
right?
So if someone's like diabetic
and they wear a continuous glucose monitor
and their glucose level is like stays at 150,
and then through a dietary intervention
or even like a drug intervention,
you drop that down to like 90,
that's still relatively high glucose.
That should be a lot, but the relative changes,
that they will perceive that as hypoglycemia
because their brain is used to 150 milligrams
per deciliter of glucose, right?
But when you go on a ketogenic diet
or you do intermittent fasting,
that trains your brain for lack of a better term.
I could talk mechanistically what's going on,
but the brain adapts to using to being comfortable
at a lower level of glucose.
So I've been in situations where I'm fasting
or on a ketogenic diet, or even if I take exogenous ketones,
that tends to lower my glucose too.
Where my glucose is like 52, sometimes, you know,
as low as 48, and that's when I feel most lucid
and have the most brain energy.
Because there's various transporters associated
with getting glucose across membranes,
and that could be the blood-brain barrier.
And then you have the cellular membrane,
which is the membrane on the neuron,
you know, getting it across there.
And there's a variety of different transporters
with ketones, it's called the monocarboxylgacetransporter.
And these things get up-regulated,
which means like you have a neuron,
and it's got like 100 little transporters,
but you go on a ketogenic diet or start fasting,
and then it ramps up production of these proteins,
which are, transporters are protein,
they get embedded in the membranes,
and then it allows your body to transport more
of this energy across the membrane,
and then even into the mitochondria,
where there's also transporters.
So this adaptive process does not happen overnight,
but the more you adhere to intermittent fasting protocols,
carbohydrate restriction, or ketogenic diet,
then you up-regulate ketogenesis enzymes,
which are enzymes that make ketones.
So you're making more of this alternative fuel.
You are augmenting the production of ketolytic enzymes,
which are enzymes within the mitochondria in the cell
that actually allow us to generate energy from ketones.
And then you're also increasing
the production of the transporters.
So you have, so we can get more of this fuel across.
So there's a lot of adaptive things.
And you talked about, you know, when you're fasting,
you did more chin-ups and everything.
I think a lot of things are going on there
in that you're relieving your body
of the burden of digestion, right?
Digesting, you know, your organs.
That actually uses a lot of energy.
So when you're fasting, you know, all that extra energy
and blood can actually go to your muscles
and go to your brain.
And when we fast about 24 to 36 hours
into fasting, we have about a 30% increase
in brain blood flow.
And this is kind of like a mystery,
but people are studying this.
And I think it has to be attributed to
then your gastrointestinal system, your liver,
your kidneys, your organs take up a massive amount
of energy and blood.
And then because you're not digesting food or anything,
that frees up a lot of it.
Your liver actually shrinks, you know,
you have less glycogen and less metabolic activity
in the liver.
So you have more blood in circulation available
to your muscles.
And the inflammatory state of your body goes down.
So your inflammatory markers, your cytokines
and your chemokines go down.
And when that happens, the skeletal muscle,
the actual contractile apparatus of the skeletal muscle,
the calcium signaling, even at the level
of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the neuromuscular junction,
you have a better activation
of muscle contraction from the brain
to the motor neurons, to the neuromuscular junction,
to the release of calcium in there.
So you have a stronger, more efficient contraction
when your body is in the state of lower inflammation.
You know, you reduce the burden of having to digest food.
And, and then you have ketones too, that are in the mix.
So your body becomes a more efficient machine.
So this probably, you know, your strength will probably
go up in like pulling exercise,
maybe in deadlifts, probably not things like bench press
or, you know, which certain exercises,
you have the advantage of maybe holding extra weight
because you simply have, if you expand the cells,
you know, with like creatin and carbs
and you're holding extra glycogen,
then you essentially have more cellular leverage
to move more weight.
So, so for example, my nutrition, fasting,
regimens are different depending on
like what type of workout I'm going into, you know?
So that's, that needs to be taken into account.
Yeah, that's another thing I wanted to ask you about.
Obviously, you know, you, I'm sure you spend a lot of time
during your day sitting at a computer doing research.
Way too much.
I do the same thing.
12 hours a day.
So it, when I try my hardest, I can go on,
I can go on a month long stint of being pretty damn close
to being in ketosis.
But there's some, it's so hard.
I have so many like questions.
I'm trying to like form it into, keep it organized.
When, what is your specific regimen
when it comes to like your everyday?
I know you have different workout routines
that you're going into, but for someone like you,
you're a big guy, you work out a lot,
but you also spend a lot of time sitting down.
Like what, and sitting at it as working,
not being, not being active.
It's different for people like you
or people like myself than it is for somebody
who works like construction
or is on their feet running around all day.
For someone who spends a lot of time at the desk,
like what is your regimen, for example?
Like what, like how often do you typically eat?
What does that look like?
And then what type of supplements are you taking?
Yeah, I'll give a question.
Well, I, I think sitting can be like really toxic
if you're sitting all day.
So I actually built a stand up desk at home
and then working a lot at home with COVID,
but I also teach and like last week
I had to teach all week and I'm standing behind a podium.
So that's better than sitting at my desk.
And my students actually bought me a stand up desk
for my office.
So yeah, so that was when I got tenure,
they bought me that.
So it kind of gifted them.
So I do probably more than 80% of the time
if I am at the desk, I'm standing
and moving around from conference calls
like I walk around and do that.
So depending, my nutrition will vary depending
upon if I want to lose weight,
maintain weight or gain weight, right?
And also varies depending upon my routine.
I'm talking just to my routine will depend upon
the type of workout that I'm doing too.
Last week, I guess for an example,
I hosted Thomas DeLauer,
who's got a massive YouTube page,
check him out, it's like three million followers.
And I knew he was coming and I knew he was going to,
my typical routine is through, in academia,
you have very long hours.
So even when I was a PhD student,
it was like get in there, warm up,
lift really heavy and get out.
And then I was able to build a lot of muscle
just doing that and a lot of strength and size.
Dorian Yates and Mike Menser popularized
an approach called the heavy duty approach.
And it was just like I followed them
and would learn to warm up
and do two or three major compound movements
and maybe one or two accessory movements sets really and be out.
So I still revert back to that today.
Although last week was really challenging
and it was really pushing me.
I do a lot of work outside.
We have a farm.
So I'm always moving hay bales and shoveling poop
and just cutting logs and stuff like that.
So that has kept me in shape and...
You're a real man.
Yeah, I enjoy that.
That's part of like my routine actually.
And so yesterday I spent a good time fixing fences
and cutting logs and everything.
That's awesome.
So yeah, last week was kind of fun
because I was put through a workout that I typically don't.
It was like maybe an hour and a half of training.
And we did a wide variety of high volume
from weighted dips to chins.
And then we did shoulder exercises
and all these accessory movements I typically don't do.
And it was like freezing cold
but Thomas DeLauer was like an animal.
He had like no sleep.
He came in and slept three hours
but he does intermittent fasting, ketogenic diets.
And he's a pretty big dude, like pretty heavily muscled.
And then we did our workout which went well.
I was able to keep up with him and even deadlifts.
You know, I'm pretty strong on that exercise.
But we went from that to training outside
where I had a thousand pound hay bale.
And the idea was to roll it across the farm
across the cowbridge onto the other property.
So we had, we took turns rolling this thing
across the pasture.
And that, it's like pushing the sled but even harder
because you know, it's wet, it's like, you know
this thing, it's hard to push up hills.
I mean, it totally spent, you know
totally drained every amount of ATP I had.
And I really felt in that context
and we talked about it after
and we actually, you know, developed some interview content
around this idea of that would have been a good scenario
or a good point in time to add carbohydrates
because I typically don't train that way.
If I was ketogenic, I could probably train my body
to do an hour, an hour, half workout.
But because my workouts are usually 30 minutes
if I extend it to an hour, an hour and a half
not having carbohydrates would be detrimental, I think.
But I feel like I could get a sufficient amount of stimulus
within a 30 minute workout to grow muscle
and to grow strength and just going beyond that
is just like a waste of time
because I'm not like a professional athlete
or anything like that.
Although if I was going to be, you know
a bodybuilder, a competitive powerlifter, a football player
I would be doing two or three hour workouts
and I would probably introduce some carbohydrates
in and around my workout, but not much.
A little bit goes a long way.
But, you know, and I would probably add them
intra-workout about halfway through.
So, but for me, I really, I probably spend about an hour.
Like carbohydrate supplements?
Yeah, like a little bit of, you know
simple sugars in the form of glucose polymers
or, you know, I will, I should just have like dark chocolate.
I'll have some dark chocolate if I want a little bit of carbs
and sometimes I get into routines where like I just
cutting, I'm just like moving logs all day
and just like, it's like eight hours of deadlifting.
You know?
Yeah.
If I'm doing some fence work or something like that
and just doing a lot of heavy farm work
and then I will titrate some carbs in and I feel it.
I mean, but I like to keep my body hungry for carbs
and in the process of doing that,
you're adapting your physiology to be able to perform
and preserve that performance in a low carb state.
And I think there's a lot of advantages to that.
So your glucose is low, your insulin is low
and that allows you to tap into your fat reserves
more efficiently.
So we have an endless amount of fat.
Even a lean person has, you know,
20 to 30,000 calories of fat on their body,
even a lean person.
So we can always tap into that.
Whereas, you know, if we cut carbs completely out
within like 24, 36 hours,
we're going to deplete our liver glycogen.
But if we are fat adapted and we have good metabolic
flexibility, that means that,
and a good way to assess this is if you stop eating
and you fast and if the fast is extremely painful
and you get a headache and you just can't perform,
then you're not fat adapted.
So one way to get your body more fat adapted
is simply the first way to do it is to simply eat
within a 12 hour window and fast in 12 hours.
So start there and then you can push it
to like a 16 hour fast and eight hours of eating.
Some people go to like 20 hours of fasting,
four hours of eating.
If I did that, I would lose way too much weight
and size and strength.
So what I do personally is just,
I do intermittent fasting, a 16, eight protocol
just twice a week, if that.
And that's actually enough.
So 16 hours of not eating.
16 hours fasting, 16 hours of just skipping breakfast.
Like last week, I like lecture twice.
It's like I would finish my lectures for the day
around two or three o'clock in the afternoon
and then that would be my first meal.
So, and sometimes during the day,
I might have some ketone supplements
or I might have like black coffee or something like that.
And sometimes I put MCT in it, sometimes I don't.
But basically the most important thing is to keep insulin
and glucose low and that pushes your body
to be more fat adapted.
And when we get fat adapted and we go in a situation,
if we don't have any carbs or if we go
into a fasting situation,
the body is completely immune to the energy crisis.
So your body knows what to do, quickly liberates fat for fuel.
And I think a lot of things are going on there.
It's like you're increasing something called glucagon.
You're stimulating your sympathetic nervous system,
your catecholamines and that's basically hits a hormone
called hormone sensitive lipase.
And so basically it just like it opens the floodgates
for fat to go out of your cell and to be used as energy.
And some of that fat goes to the liver
and through ketogenesis generates ketones
and then ketones can largely replace glucose
as an energy source, which you were experiencing
when you were fasting for five to seven days.
You did, yeah.
I did, I quit on the sixth day.
I wanted to go seven, but I couldn't.
Yeah, well at that point in time,
like the majority of your brain energy
was coming from ketones.
Like if you fasted that long.
So it takes a while to get to that.
For me, so and we calculate this
through something called the glucose ketone index.
So you can measure glucose
and in milligrams per deciliter or a millimolar.
So in millimolar we're about like four to five millimolar
is normal, but when you fast, you don't go to zero
because we always produce glucose
through gluconeogenic amino acids
and the glycerol backbone of triglycerides
becomes glucose and everything.
So our glucose goes down, but stays like low
and stable at about three millimolar.
And after about three days of fasting,
on the first day, if you're eating a standard diet,
your ketones are like zero, right?
So, but after about three days of fasting,
you're up to about three millimolar ketones.
So we call that a glucose ketone index of one, right?
So the level of glucose in your blood
is fairly equivalent to the level of ketone in your blood
and your brain will use whatever fuels available.
So you have the transporters for both.
So you're using about 50% glucose and 50% ketones.
At three millimolars.
At three millimolars.
That's for me and for, I've tracked many different people,
especially athletes at about the third day,
they have a glucose ketone index of about one,
which means you get, your brain's like a hybrid engine.
It can use glucose or ketones or it could use both, right?
So in that particular state is very therapeutic.
So a glucose ketone index of one
is tremendously neuroprotective.
It's tremendously anti-seizure.
Organizations like Johns Hopkins and Mayo Clinic,
when they have kids that come in
and put them on a ketogenic diet,
if they can get their glucose ketone index to one,
then that has remarkable seizure control
above and beyond any anti-convulsant that we know of.
That's really amazing to me.
And that's what actually motivated me
to spend my career studying this.
But when you were experiencing it,
you probably felt lighter.
You probably felt everything was kind of like smooth.
My mental acuity, I was so much sharper
when I was thinking and talking.
I could do things like this so much better.
No fatigue, no mental fatigue at all.
Yeah, yeah, I typically like this morning
I had steak and eggs for breakfast,
but because I was like so active over the weekend,
it was just like my energy levels were down.
But typically, so as I'm transitioning more
throughout the day into a more fasted state,
I can feel my body and my brain becoming more awake.
So typically my normal day is kind of like,
I don't do intermittent fasting every day.
I'll eat a small keto breakfast
and then fast throughout the day
and then have a pretty large meal
and then maybe some activity
and then like a snack at night.
That's what I typically do.
Sometimes I'll eat those keto bricks.
Oh yeah.
Like a little bit of those keto bricks.
I know Robert very well.
Just the coffee, I don't know.
Everything I eat that's keto
is just from your Instagram page.
So I just copy pretty much everything I see you do.
Yeah, shout out to Robert at Keto Brick.
It's like one of the,
so a lot of people send me keto supplements
and keto products and maybe only 10,
not even 20%, maybe 10% like actually are truly keto.
So a keto brick is something that is like,
it's a thousand calorie brick
that has the macronutrient ratios that are truly keto,
which means you eat it
and then you are truly sustaining the being in,
like you could use it clinically.
Like the product could be used like in a clinical setting.
Oh wow.
To manage like it's that legit.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean it fills you up.
It fills you up.
I can only eat like a quarter of one maybe at most
and one sitting with coffee.
Perfect for like backpacking,
like hikers, like hunting, something like that.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, I eat a couple of week.
Do you?
I gotta reorder them actually, yeah.
It's the hardest thing for me
as far as like maintaining this nutritional state
is I can fast all day long.
Often I'll go a couple of times,
maybe one time a month, I'll do a 24 hours
and then I'll spend a couple days like strict keto.
But other than that, like when I'm just like coasting,
I can easily, I intermittent fast most days
of Monday through Friday.
I try to do that at least.
But then when I get home,
I'll eat chips or I'll eat a cookie.
Is it true that that's can be worse
if you're in a ketogenic state from either fasting
or from diet and then you splurge
and eat some chips and cookies?
Is that worse than just eating,
just keeping a carbs in your diet throughout the day?
Yeah, so I mean, I'm looking at you,
looking at like your metabolic phenotype,
you're probably digesting and assimilating that.
The only way, I'm kind of against,
processed food in general.
I try to eliminate it, although,
I don't, my wife is pretty liberal in whatever she eats.
I mean, you know.
I watch the same way.
Cookies, candies, things like that.
And she can maintain her blood glucose and insulin
and within a pretty tight parameters, right?
So the majority of people can't.
Majority of people have hyperinsulinemia,
insulin resistance and they don't,
they should not be eating these things.
It's adding more kind of fuel to the fire.
These are hyper-palatable foods
that reinforce a dopaminergic pathway,
among other things associated
with the control of eating behavior,
which is very complex.
So it's reinforcing, the more you eat the foods,
reinforcing that eating behavior of that kind of food,
that's hyper-palatable.
Typically high carb, high fat, high sugar,
or high salt content too.
So for you, I mean, you may need the calories to maintain it.
And for me, at the end of the day,
sometimes I have to have like a cup
or two cups of sour cream
and I put some protein powder in it
and some stevia or whatever just to get my calorie.
Yeah, I'll do sour cream, some wild blueberries,
and it's stevia and dark chocolate powder,
and just to get my calories,
because I was so busy during the day,
I just didn't have my calorie needs, I'll lose weight.
But I think the only way to really know
if this is harming your body is to do blood work.
And so I'm wearing, I talked about a continuous
glucose monitor, I have a Dexcom G6 on the back
and sometimes I use the Abbott Precision,
or the Abbott Libre device.
And I use that with an app called Levels Health.
And Levels Health app is really a tool
that we are using in a registered clinical trial
as a behavioral tool to more or less prevent
what you just told me you're doing,
which is like kind of going throughout the day.
If I go throughout the day, by the end of the day,
I'm more hungry than if I had eaten a meal earlier
so that's kind of why I realized
that intermittent fasting was leading
to more erratic eating behavior at night.
And I am like, I get the munchies at night,
so simply eating a well-formulated ketogenic meal
earlier in the day knocks my appetite down by like 30%.
It doesn't go away, but I definitely am less ravenous
at night time.
And being low-carbon being keto actually helps
with controlling your appetite,
so your appetite's not controlling you.
But what it allows me to do is that,
I can look at, and my phone's kind of off right now,
but I could just show you, oh, I need to access,
I don't want to turn it on
because it'll blow up over to ever.
But I can, oh, you've probably seen my Instagram
where I show my glycemic response,
where I can see my glucose response,
in response to a pop tart versus a tasty pastry,
which is made by legendary foods,
which is like tastes just as good or better
than a pop tart, right?
They have like different variety,
like blueberry and cinnamon and dutch.
And then they have, and I'll eat a regular pop tart,
they are two different things
that actually are just as enjoyable to eat,
but the pop tart actually shoots my glucose
to like 220 milligrams per deciliter,
which is like a glycemic hit.
And these spikes and glucose can be pro-inflammatory,
they can trigger an insulin response,
quickly kick you out of ketosis
and basically put you in the fat storing mode.
Whereas when I ate a tasty pastry,
it was almost like a flat line
on the continuous glucose monitor,
which means I don't have a big bolus of glucose hitting.
Tasty pastry.
Yeah, tasty pastry by legendary foods.
So, you know, if I, if I'm, if you have to say,
if it point the finger towards me
of eating one processed food, it would be tasty pastry,
but it's in no way equivalent to a pop tart.
And I think most importantly,
from a metabolic physiology point of view,
I mean, it's super friendly to your metabolism
in regards to glycemic variability.
So I advocate for, if you can't understand something
unless you monitor it, right?
If you want to manage something, yeah, you have to,
you have to measure if you,
if you want to effectively manage something.
So I'm a big advocate for people
just knowing what your baseline is.
So by a glucose monitor,
you can get at any CBS Walgreens, Walmart,
prick your finger, measure your fasting blood glucose.
If you're over like 126 and you measure that again
and you're over it twice, you're type two diabetic
and many people are borderline prediabetic.
So at the very least get, you know, blood work,
like once a year, ideally three or four times a year.
And, you know, you want to measure your insulin to,
but glucose is like the most important biomarker for health.
And one way to track glucose continuously
without having to prick your finger all the time
is actually to get a continuous glucose monitor.
And-
Is it like go in you?
Yeah, there's an applicator
and you put it on the back part of your arm here.
And I mean, you could put it on your stomach and stuff too,
but I like to be consistent and put it just on the,
just the meaty part back in the tricep.
And that's basically like a dashboard
to your metabolic physiology, your glucose, right?
So-
You get those at CBS?
So the continuous glucose monitors are prescription items
that are primarily used for type one diabetics
and also in type two diabetics.
There's a company called Levels Health
that you sign up and you go through
an online application process and fill out a quick form.
It might take five to 10 minutes.
And then there's a third party that fulfills a prescription
and then they just send you the kit to your house.
And you get a couple of devices and you get a transmitter.
And then you have access to the app.
So that's where the technology comes in
in that within the app, I, for example,
I ate a tasty pastry and then I ate a pop tart
and then I had on two different days
and I had a very informative glycemic trace
over the course of several hours
and actually gives you a metabolic score.
And then I can go into the app and then do compare
and I could just go the day before.
Basically, I take a picture of it
and I write tasty pastry and I take a picture of the pop tart
which is right pop tart, you know, the next day
and I go into the app and I compare these two
and it shows me it overlays the glycemic response
from pop tart and the metabolic score, the rate of rise,
you know, the peak rate and the area under the curve
and all that stuff is calculated.
And it compares that the tasty pastry to the pop tart
and it shows, you know, you have two dramatic,
two very dramatic difference between, you know,
two things that are just as enjoyable to eating
but two different metabolic responses.
So I'm a big advocate for measuring glycemic responses
to food because I thought, I thought, you know,
whole grained oats oatmeal would have a nice flat response
but it shot me to like 200.
And I thought, yeah, I thought like, you know,
eating an orange would not be too,
if I ate a large orange, it would shoot me up
at most 50, 60 points.
So even blueberries, if I eat blueberries
without protein and fat, I get like a,
probably a 20, 30 milligram per deciliter spike.
So I learned, I learned a lot of things
using continuous glucose monitor.
One is that if I eat fiber before a meal,
fat or fiber before eating a carbohydrate
or a large amount of protein, that fiber and fat will,
so eating a salad with like a lot of olive oil
and a mixed greens, and then I eat a steak
or a lot of protein after that,
the protein could spike me up a little bit
or even if I eat carbohydrates,
eating that fat and fiber first
will block that glycemic response.
So not only like the peak glycemic response
but meaning the area under the curve.
So, which means the total glycemic load
is reduced simply by eating fiber.
So what that tells me is that I have
an appropriate insulin response
and the insulin is doing its job more efficiently
and taking that glucose and putting it into the muscle
or into a liver or wherever it needs to be.
Whereas if I was to drink, you know,
24 ounces of Gatorade, that glucose is hitting the system
and the body is going to dump a massive amount of insulin
and typically what's gonna happen is that,
you know, the insulin gets released,
it's going to stimulate de novo lipogenesis,
you're gonna like, you know, glucose transporters
will be overwhelmed, so you're gonna get a big spike up
and then you're gonna get this post-prandial dip
in your glucose where you're going to be super hungry
and ravenous, you know, after the insulin gets,
you're gonna get, it's gonna spike up,
you're gonna dump insulin, insulin gets released
and then you're gonna get super hungry
and this is the vicious cycle,
the majority of population is on right now.
So they're eating carbohydrates, they're eating chips,
they're eating things between meals
and they spike their glucose up
and then two or three hours later,
they get a post-prandial dip
and then the brain senses hypoglycemia
and that hypoglycemia is a trigger
for you to go eat more carbohydrates and get your glucose up
and a lot of people don't know that
and they would not know that
because they're not using continuous glucose monitor.
So, I mean, I've been wearing it for years
and it's not something you necessarily have to wear for years
but if you just wear it for four weeks,
it is so insightful and full of actionable information,
you can change your dietary patterns
to really optimize your glycemia throughout the day
and that will give you so much more energy,
it'll give you, you can perform better,
you can recover better from exercise,
you can think better.
So it's a very cost-effective tool.
It might be a little bit pricey to buy up front
but you can, it's like two or $300, I think.
But you just, I think if you just use it for four weeks,
that you get so much information out of that,
that it's actually pretty cheap.
Yeah, so don't fast all day
and come home and eat a giant bowl of Captain Crunch.
No, no, no.
I did, there's like, there's Catalina Crunch
I've tried some of those keto cereals,
they're actually not bad.
Yeah, so I think it was Magic Spoon I tried maybe.
I tried my, yep, that tested okay.
So I tested a lot of things,
so I wear a continuous glucose monitor to vet out
which truly low carb, it was keto
and Magic Spoon was like pretty okay, it was surprisingly.
Although it's got like Chick-Ree-Roo and Inulin in it
and that gave me gas, but and then Catalina Crunch,
it's like two thumbs up on the taste, pretty good.
But if I eat it dry out of the box,
it was definitely shooting my glucose up,
not way less than like Captain Crunch,
but when I used like a high fat almond milk
or coconut milk or if I put it in sour cream
and put cinnamon and ate it as a snack,
then it was like no spike.
So just, you know, coupling that with fats.
With fats, yeah, it didn't spike me.
One of the interesting things which I emailed you about
was when I did, I believe it was last,
about almost a year ago today,
I did a five day fast, at the very end of the five day fast,
I did a blood test on myself,
came back, my LDLs were through the roof.
Yeah.
Remember I set you some screenshots of it
and you said, there was a,
you sent me something back where,
I said a lot of athletic or active people
who are on ketogenic diets see that heighten cholesterol.
Yeah, that's, and there's a term that has been developed
for that called lean mass hyper responders.
So a lot of elite level athletes that are,
and they don't only have to be elite level,
that are following a low carb approach
and getting their bodies to basically run off fat
and ketones, when we look at their lipid profile,
and I forget where your triglycerides were,
but in the typical-
I didn't get, they didn't test my triglycerides,
I have it right here.
Well, typically what we see with athletic folks
that are following more of a high fat dietary pattern
is that their triglycerides will,
oh, is that ZRT?
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Oh, your HSCRPs low, insulins low,
hemoglobin A1C is very low, HDL.
I don't know what any of those mean.
Your high density lipoprotein is a little low.
33 is kind of low.
Relatively speaking,
I like to keep, I like to have my HDL in the 60 range,
but your hemoglobin A1C low, your HSCRP,
which is your inflammatory marker, is 0.1.
It's probably gonna fasten.
Yeah, you can't get much better than that.
And then your insulins, yeah, 3.9, so that's pretty good.
The other ones are kind of cut off,
but I don't see your LDL here.
Oh, wait, let me see.
Yeah, it wasn't, it didn't have LDL, but it had,
what is the HSCRP?
That's high sensitivity C-reactive protein.
And it's a marker, I like it.
Some people, I think it's very good
marker of systemic inflammation.
And I basically see that people with high HSCRP
really have, you know, bad metabolic health.
And as their metabolic health improves,
high sensitivity C-reactive protein goes down,
so systemic inflammation goes down over time.
And that's also people who have HSCRP,
if it's high, you're more likely to get cancer,
you're more likely to get, you know.
If it's high, okay.
Yeah, people who have cancer, I tend to see high HSCRP.
So it's super good and important to have low levels
of systemic inflammation.
And that's, that was very indicative
of what you just showed me.
So that, so even, so if you have those numbers
and your LDL is high, my personal opinion,
I would not be too concerned with that.
So your-
Is LDL really bad?
Is that like, I heard that some people claim
that that's a myth that LDL is really not bad.
It's very complicated and it's a nuanced discussion.
Right.
That's probably above and beyond here.
But my short answer is that if you're,
if your glycemia levels are good,
insulin levels good, inflammation's down,
ideally you want your HDL a little bit higher than that,
but still kind of okay.
And your triglycerides are low too.
Having a high HDL, I would not be concerned,
especially, you know,
if your blood pressure is good and you're healthy.
So we do not know what an elevated LDL means
in the context of a low carb diet
or in the context of this extended fast.
So I don't think my, every doctor will tell you
that's bad and you need to do something about it
and you should probably be on a statin.
But the science has not,
the science has not, doesn't have any data really
on what healthy LDL levels should be
in the context of like a fast like you did
or in the context of a protracted
or extended like low carb diet.
Like we just don't have that data yet.
But if your other,
if your triglycerides were elevated
and your HDL were elevated, I would be concerned.
Or if your hemoglobin A1C was like 6.5,
but you were like 4.1, that's like super low.
So what that tells me-
Are those all considered triglycerides?
So your triglycerides were not,
your triglycerides should have been tested,
but I didn't see them on there.
But basically just by looking at your insulin
and your glucose and your other markers,
what that tells me is that your body
was in a very high fat oxidation state.
Your glucose was low.
And in the context of an elevated fat metabolism,
you're going to need more lipoprotein.
You're going to need more.
And that's LDL is not cholesterol,
but it carries cholesterol.
So low density lipoprotein carries not only cholesterol,
it carries phospholipids, it carries triglycerides,
it carries other fats.
So we need more of that protein
when we are preferentially using more fat for fuel
because that's a transport system for fat,
for phospholipids, for other molecules.
So we need more carrying molecules in circulation.
And yeah, if all your other biomarkers are okay,
I would not be too concerned.
Although, to follow up, the only way
to really get insight into that is to do
what's called an NMR lipid profile,
which basically measures like your LDLP,
your APOB, your LLP, little A, these are things,
again, kind of beyond the discussion here.
But if your LDL is persistently elevated
across a couple blood draws,
and your triglycerides are a little bit high too,
and your HDL is a little bit low,
so HDL high is good, HDL low is bad.
You may want to adjust your diet a little bit.
Which I've done.
Yeah, but I wouldn't, I mean, those numbers are great,
especially like after a fast.
I would expect that, and it's also pretty similar to mine.
I didn't see what your other, what your...
I was trying to find it,
but it's taking me forever to get it on the laptop.
Going back to, I want to talk about more about the NMR,
and what was it, the Verso product is NMR
and Resveratrol, which produces naturally NAD, right?
Well, it hits the certuans, yeah,
which is kind of like, and P-P-A-R.
So essentially what it does is it's elevating NAD.
So as we age, so I'm taking Verso,
so my NAD levels may be a little bit higher.
So if I was not taking Verso product,
my level of NAD would probably be half
of what it was when I was like 17 or 18 years old.
So as we age, we have a correspondingly
progressive decrease in NAD levels,
which is sort of like this energy intermediate
that's really important for cellular energy production,
you know, signaling molecules.
So the NMN or nicotinamide riboside
or nicotinamide mononucleotide,
which is found in the Verso product with Resveratrol
is hitting CERT1 receptor and associated pathways,
which is really helping the body.
The way I think about it is it's coupling
mitochondrial activity and mitochondrial health
with the nucleus.
So there's crosstalk between the mitochondria,
which are the energy producing organelles of the cell
and the nucleus.
And there's like this retrograde response
where there's crosstalk.
And essentially, and there's a lot of activity
that's driven by NAD, cellular respiration.
So the NAD supplement is sort of restoring
the cofactors necessary to make ATP,
but I think about it mostly from a signaling perspective
as coupling the mitochondria to the nucleus
and producing an appropriate response
in regards to generating the bioelectric
or the bioenergetic state of the cell.
So that's the couple.
And my criticism of NMN and NR was that
when you take it orally, it's not getting into the cells.
But I think the data is to the point now,
especially if you take a large enough dose
that it is getting to the cells.
And the dosage that we need,
the human studies really are not there yet.
And I was a little bit hesitant taking it,
although anecdotally, if I take a large dose, I do feel it.
And I've not taken IV NAD yet,
but the feedback from people that I respect
suggest that it's pretty effective.
Yeah, my friend who I was telling you about
who's been doing it every other day,
he's in his late fifties,
and he says he doesn't really notice much of a difference.
But the first time I did it, I felt like I could jump
over the moon.
I had like an insane energy boost
that I've never experienced.
After that, it wasn't so bad.
One time I did it, I felt like I was gonna throw up
for four hours afterwards.
I know when you're doing it,
it's extremely stressful and painful on your body.
You feel like you have the flu while you're doing it.
But after, I think it was the third time I did it afterwards,
I felt like I was sick for a couple hours,
which was really weird.
I didn't have the energy spike.
I don't know if that had to do with the needle placement,
if they messed it up when they put the needle in my vein
or what, but um...
Was there anything else in the drip?
Like a scorbic acid, like vitamin C,
or like a Myers cocktail.
Myers cocktail, yep.
They did the NAD.
So you were experiencing that sort of like coldness
that you feel in the cringe sometimes.
There's different effects you may feel.
Also, you have to acknowledge that a scorbic acid
is a glucose antagonist, which is vitamin C.
So vitamin C and glucose use the same transporter.
So when you get a big dose of vitamin C,
a big dose IV would be anywhere from 20 grams.
So some clinics use like 100 grams of IV vitamin C.
Your body goes into a most reactive hypoglycemia
because the same channel,
the glucose transporters that transport glucose
also transport vitamin C and you're blocking that.
And so there's a wide variety of effects you could feel
depending upon if you went into it fasted
or if you had a meal or something.
And it probably had the pee like crazy too,
like right after.
Oh yeah, the first time I did it, I did it fasted.
I felt great.
The time I got sick, I ate an egg McMuffin before.
Okay, yeah, yeah.
So that could factor into that.
Yeah, you're probably dumping a lot of insulin too
and maybe you have like an effect after that.
So I think there's good science emerging from NAD.
I'm of the opinion, let's try to increase NAD levels
naturally and sustain it naturally.
So ketogenic diets, there are some people in the field
of basic science research and clinical research
to that field that the therapeutic effects
of the ketogenic diet on the brain and on the body
are due to a boost in NAD, NAD to NADH ratio.
So there's a whole field of people kind of studying
that fasting will increase NAD levels
and exercise increase NAD levels.
So if you do a low carb ketogenic diet
with intermittent fasting and exercise,
you're basically doing like everything you could do
to boost your NAD levels.
So I don't think you have to do the IV route.
I think you can get the benefits
and it's much easier, right?
You can take a supplement like Verso.
Cheaper.
Yeah, yeah, and...
And it's interesting that it helped you with COVID too.
You know, I didn't expect,
I think it was from like an energetic point of view.
Like I came down, I had very mild symptoms
for about two or three days
and then I got a fever about 103.7
and I remember I was working all day during this,
having to do interviews and stuff with the school.
And although it was virtual,
I wasn't like spreading my germs around,
but it was that day that actually got back
on with the Verso product again.
And I was mega dosing.
I was taking 12 capsules.
And I turned the corner real quick.
Like the next day I woke up, I like sprung out of bed.
I was ready, you know, right at work.
I was just like, I had a lot of energy,
but I could still feel that my immune system
was in a hyper immune surveillance point of view.
My glands were very swollen,
but throughout the course of the day,
by the end of the day, my glands had went down
and I was just left with like, you know,
this tickle in the back of your throat.
So for me, I don't know what version I had.
I suspect I might have had the Delta variant,
but maybe I had the Omicron.
It started as just like razor blades in my throat.
And then, and then I had the fever
right around that time or whatever,
but it was really bad for two days
and then just kind of lingered for a week or two after.
Whereas my wife, we obviously got the same thing
because it happened like the early symptoms
started at the exact same time
and we both had the same fever within, you know, one or two.
But her symptoms were muscle pain and bone pain.
And actually, your symptoms were a little bit less in mind,
but we both recovered pretty quick.
And you're vaccinated?
You don't want to talk about that?
Well, you know, I am because of the work I do
and, you know, I chose to get vaccinated.
So I'll say that, but I am in touch
with a number of people who I was within a circle,
like a family circle and friends and everything.
They all got the same variant that I got
because we all got sick around the same time.
Oh, you were all together, okay.
Yeah, and I'm not, I mean, my wife is part
of this bigger group.
And it was kind of interesting in that
it did not seem to make a difference, vaccinated or not,
you know.
Between you and your wife?
Her symptoms were less than yours.
Yeah, her symptoms were,
well, I'm not going to say if she's vaccinated or not,
but I'll say that we were amongst her,
she included a number of different people.
And actually the people that were not vaccinated
probably had a little or no symptoms.
A couple of them, you know, didn't get infected at all.
We had a big family get-togethers and stuff
and we traveled back and then got on the phone
and it was like realized everybody was sick.
So I got a head count of like who's sick,
what are their symptoms?
And I went through everything.
And there was a couple people among family and friends
that were unvaccinated and they didn't even get it,
but all their family members got it.
So I think the bottom line is that I don't think that,
the whole point of vaccines was to decrease the length
of the, you know, the pandemic.
And I don't think that happened, right?
I mean, just look at the scenario.
Right, no, now you have to get your fourth, fifth one.
Yeah, yeah.
And whether that, I don't think the protracted nature
of the pandemic is due to the unvaccinated.
I think we can reliably say that at this point in time.
So, but I mean, I think there is something to the idea,
especially if you're older and metabolic health,
if you have type two diabetes, if you're obese,
if you're older, I'm all for getting vaccinated,
then it becomes questionable if you are younger,
if you're kids, like, you know, that's a whole nother.
I don't even choose to weigh in on that
because it's so polarized that, you know,
but I have my own opinions, but I do feel that, you know,
I encouraged, you know, my family members who are,
you know, older in their 70s and 80s and stuff
that might be good to get vaccinated,
but who knows at this point in time?
I just don't think it, it definitely didn't help me
as far as, I felt like I had no protection, you know,
after being vaccinated.
What did you think of all the supplements
that Joe Rogan said he took when he got,
because they were shitting all over him,
all over the news and everything,
saying that, you know, he was taking all this ridiculous stuff,
like deworm, horse dewormer and all that stuff,
but, you know, he took a lot of stuff.
Yeah, well, he took monoclonal antibodies too.
And NAD, right.
Oh yeah, yeah, monoclonal antibodies.
I think he might have taken NAD.
So, I'm of the opinion, so I take, you know, I take zinc,
I take quercidin, I actually have prescription
vitamin D that I had on hand that I, that I took for that.
And prescription vitamin D.
Yeah, it's actually prescription vitamin D2.
So, I'll take D2 and D3, quercidin, zinc, vitamin C,
a couple other things here and there, like,
I mean, for lifting, I take creatine monohydrate,
acetyl-L-carnitine, I think is really good.
If you're on a ketogenic diet,
your body gets depleted in carnitine
because carnitine transports
is a part of the fatty acid transporter.
So, we tend to deplete it
just because we're burning so much fat.
So, I do that, and then I took a lysine,
which an amino acid kind of can boost your immune system,
and then exogenous ketones.
So, I think all of that and omega-3 fatty acids,
I think are good too.
So, that's, you know, I tell people,
I don't really take supplements,
but I guess I just mentioned quite a few things I take.
A lot of vitamins.
But it's all, you know, I wake up in the morning
and I set all the powders out.
I buy pretty much everything, like bulk powders,
a lot of things, except, you know,
of course vitamin D is not, or zinc.
And then I scoop it on, just take it in the morning,
and then I'll put another in a shaker bottle,
some of the powders, and I'll drink that like midday
or before dinner or something.
But I do think that there's a case for supplements.
Ivermectin's a little bit,
I think there is some, it needs to be studied more.
I mean, we have cows, we have animals,
we have tons of it on the farm.
I didn't dig into my veterinary stash of Ivermectin.
It's funny that it's in the heartworm stuff
that you give dogs, right?
If you read the ingredients, it's actually in there.
Yep, yep, it's in, you know, right down there.
Tractor supply, I think they were like sold out of it.
I do think there's a case to be made.
I think we just need to study it a little bit further, right?
As, you know, hydroxyquinone,
and like the quinine derivative is too,
I think we need to look at them.
Well, it's funny, the crazy weird thing about it
is the vaccine's supposed to be for prevention,
and this other stuff that people are talking about
is for treatment, like treatment of it.
Like once you already have it,
what's the best way to treat it?
Yep.
You know, and people at the hospitals say,
wait until you need to be on it,
until you can't breathe, and then you show up.
Yeah, so my hunch is that in the very early case,
maybe for, as a prophylactic measure,
ivermectin could potentially be useful
for some people who are at high risk.
This is what, this is just kind of,
I'm just speculating here,
and also potentially good to have on hand
at the first sign of maybe getting it, so ivermectin.
But I think the science is,
just needs to catch up and support that.
There's some science,
but it's just not the large clinical trials that we need,
and the reason for that not being funded
is sort of beyond the scope of this interview.
Every time I think I have it,
or I think I'm getting something,
or I feel something in my throat,
I just stop eating for 24 hours.
That's what I just do.
Or I go in the sauna,
and if the sauna helps, maybe that's stupid,
but I go in the, I sit in the sauna, and I stop eating.
Yeah, it's actually, that's two good points.
So when you stop eating,
then your body has less to deal with, right?
So when we're eating, that's a big hit to our immune system,
because half of our immune system,
more than half is in our gut.
So a lot of our immune cells and immune system function
is dealing with the food that we're eating to neutralize.
Because every time we eat, if we eat a salad,
if we eat a meal,
there's a lot of toxic things that need to be neutralized.
This is part of digestion,
and not having to deal with that liberates,
the immune system is kind of like,
a bunch of little soldiers, right?
So it liberates a much bigger army for immune surveillance,
and we can deal with viruses that are attacking us.
And the sauna is kind of interesting,
because we know heat will kill COVID,
heat kills a lot of different viruses.
So if you get into a sauna, one thing that we did,
I kind of, I finally, we have an old spa jacuzzi thing
at our house, it's a big concrete old thing,
and I fired it up after a couple of years,
I finally got a heater for it,
and I tinkered with it so I can push it beyond
what it's supposed to, right?
So I can go to basically where it's boiling.
So I get it under certain conditions.
I can get it above what's considered like the safe limit,
and I did, I heated it up to as much as possible,
and got in that thing,
and I think that really helped me recover.
I think that's why we produce a fever, high,
just boosting your body temperature a couple of degrees
makes you, it has an antiviral effect,
it could decrease viral shedding,
if we're in the process of viral replication,
it can knock that down.
And so I think that was smart to do what you're doing,
going into the sauna, and not,
you don't want to be pushing your body really hard
with exercise, because that could compromise
your immune system, and actually feed the fire,
but fasting and sauna are two good approaches.
Are sauna, have you done, is there any studies
that show the benefits of sauna combined
with like ketogenic diet, and cult evenly,
people going into the sauna,
and then going in really cold water?
Like I'll do this sometimes, I'll get in the sauna,
and I'll come right out, and I'll jump in my pool,
like right now it's 65 in my pool,
or no, I'm sorry, 55 in my pool.
Yeah, yeah, same here, I actually turned off
our pool heater, and then I'll use the sauna,
and jump in, and now after, yeah, so that's pretty cool.
We had ice, you know, we're in Florida now,
but yeah, we had ice over, we had like half inch of ice
over our cow watering stations and stuff, so.
It's ridiculous.
Yeah, I'm a big advocate of that, you know,
cold therapy, sauna, so you're asking about ketogenic diet.
I think the ketogenic diet will enhance
the adaptive responses associated with sauna,
and I think like a lot of scenarios,
so we study the ketogenic diet,
and then therapeutic ketosis induced
with exogenous ketones, we study that too
in the context of extreme environments,
and have seen that the body is much more resilient
and adaptable when it's in a state of ketosis,
and the reasons for that are reasons, you know,
that we are investigating, but I could probably come up
with speculation as to why that's happening,
but we're still researching that.
Cool, well Dom, thank you for doing this, that's two hours.
Wow.
Where can the people listening and watching
find more of your work, your website,
everything that you're doing?
Yeah, well thanks for having me on,
give me this platform to speak,
ketonutrition.org, so ketonutrition.org.
We have a blog there, we're pretty active on that,
we posted a blog this morning on bipolar disorder,
actually in ketosis, so we are very interested
in actually advancing areas of science that are underfunded,
and one area is actually metabolic psychiatry,
so we are going to kind of have a meeting,
a separate meeting at the metabolic health summit.
So if people are interested in attending an event
where they have access to scientists, clinicians,
and entrepreneurs scrambling to the space,
and influencers too will be there,
in Santa Barbara in the first week in May,
encourage you to go to metabolic health summit,
so we bring everybody together to talk about
many of the different topics that we're discussing today,
and I know Verso will be there too, actually.
Got to order some more of that stuff.
Yeah, so ketonutrition.org, go to metabolicsummit.com
and get more information about speakers.
We have speakers from Harvard and Yale and Stanford
speaking on many topics that we hit today,
including basically we break it up into brain health
and cancer, and then we have metabolic optimization,
and then we have quite a few entrepreneurs
who'll be speaking on the space
about the different technologies emerging
that are helping this community,
whether it be ketone supplements or wearable devices.
There's gonna be a lot of interest
in attendees there for that.
Awesome, well thanks again, Dom.
I very much appreciate it,
and I'll link the stuff in the show notes below.
Appreciate it, thanks Danny.
Goodbye world.
