Back in 2007, 2008, you know, just like with the, you know, you know, the show of perverted
justice or, or, or catch a predator.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, there's a lot of us doing stuff like that back then.
Some associate with psychopathy and Dramatica, where we, you know, and people still do it.
They go, they go, they pretend to be, you know, young girls and all that.
And as a proof of concept, as a test back in 2007, I did this and, and then tricked the,
the perp, the, the pedophile into calling my number, which turned out to be the number
of the local Brooklyn, New York police station.
And then I told them, look, you've just called that number.
They've got that on file.
I can send this.
I can send this to them right now.
Unless you do what I tell you to do.
And what I told them to do was say, I like mud gifts, which was a meme, four-chan meme.
So now had I been more at that point, more interested in, wait, wait, wait, wait, what,
what made you want to do that?
Again, this was a, a test proof of concept.
A proof of concept?
Yes.
Okay.
So you basically, you've made a pedophile into meeting up with you,
he thought you were a underage girl, right?
Right.
And you, you met up with him face to face and you fit and no, no, no, no, no.
I didn't make face to face.
I know what I just did.
I told him, okay, yeah.
Do you want to call me?
And the number that police station knows, it got that, I called that number at that
time.
And the conversation is long showing that time. So I now have this guy's life in my hands
because I could sense a police station and he's going down. So alternatively, if I were say,
you know, someone who wanted to build up a slave army of pedophiles in order to achieve certain
ends, I could say now here's what you have to do. You have to do the same thing I just did to you,
three other people. Wow. And then tell each one of them to do other people. And then down the
line, when I'm ready for you to do the actual work, I'll provide instructions, you know, relay them.
And then, you know, for instance, if they think I'm bluffing,
I wouldn't go into there. There are ways to do them to secure that. So anyway, so this is actually
in my book, I wrote about this, this whole concept as a man to illustrate that, you know, there is
more under heaven and earth than it's dreamt of in your philosophy, you know. Wow. There are
people out there, you know, Rockefellers or Pentagon or private companies, Peter Thiele on Musk,
other activists have known who think differently than the average person,
and who have different motivations and different agendas. Some of us like me wants to expose powerful
people and counter them and bring them down. You know, the other side, they want to do something
else. They want to rule the world under a global kleptocracy of technocrats led by Peter Thiele and
Elon Musk. What's your take on Elon Musk? What do you think his motivations are? What do you think
his primary motivations are? Well, mentally, he's kind of like the others, kind of like the other
PayPal mafia, as they call themselves in private. I mean, he's a goofy-ass, you know,
you know, technical guy with autism of some sort. And with all due respect to autistic people, there
are forms of it, especially among a tech crowd, hackers I've dealt with, for instance, that make
them very difficult for them to understand, that give them certain blind spots, just like I have
certain blind spots because of my whatever my mental condition is. I have no idea if I'm wrong with
autism. But anyway, Elon Musk falls into a certain pattern. As to his motivations, he wants, to some
extent, he wants what a lot of people want. He wants to be recognized. He wants to be admired.
He wants to have a degree of control. And I haven't actually concentrated on him much until recently,
because I've been so focused on his former partner, Peter Thiele. Now I'm interested in him because
I always forget that they were partners. Everyone does. And Pierre Omidyar started the
Intercept, which I wrote for from prison. It's where I won my National Magazine Awards for.
Not realizing at that time that Omidyar was someone who a couple years before starting the
Intercept had been involved in the intelligence community and expressed publicly his belief
that whistleblowers should be our traders. He managed to, nonetheless, start the Intercept.
With $500 billion, he managed to get Ren Greenwald involved. Ren Greenwald brought in
Weave, my old enemy from back in the day, the neo-Nazi who went on to run Daily Stormer.
And then Weave went to work not just for Omidyar, but also for Peter Thiele
at his company, Clearview AI, which does massive facial surveillance. And Weave's lawyer, Tor
Eklund, who, unfortunately, I'm responsible for bringing in because I brought in his friend
Jay Liederman, another lawyer to help protect PayPal 14, Tor Eklund became chief counsel for
Peter Thiele's Clearview AI, the surveillance company. And Tor Eklund, that's another person
who will eventually go down for that. Anyway, Elon Musk, because he's lost $70 billion
in capital over the last couple of months by Tesla cars, and because his attempt to buy Twitter
provided more scrutiny into his background, so forth, his associations. He's now going to be
more attached to Peter Thiele and is expressing more of Peter Thiele's views. He's going to need
Peter Thiele more. And so... Sorry to interrupt. Do you think that has anything to do with the
amazing amount of just fiery fury he's getting from the hardcore left wing on Twitter?
Even before he got whatever this... I mean, everyone gets fucked up with Twitter. If you're a
major prominent billionaire, you're going to get fiery fury. I mean, he didn't go to prison.
He didn't have his mom fucking out into the Zetas. I don't know what the fuck. No.
Right. He was involved with Peter Thiele years ago, just like Pierre Omidyar was.
But don't you think that what I'm getting at is like, isn't that kind of just like,
isn't that natural human instinct when you start to get... Just because he's trying to go by Twitter
and because he is advocating to make it more of a free speech-centered platform. And now,
for some reason, free speech is a right wing thing. I always thought it was a left wing thing.
But now, because he wants to make it cut down on censorship and cut down on fake accounts and
bots, for some reason, he's getting attacked by the left and he's being worshiped by the right.
So do you think... Yeah, unfortunately, that's the world we live in where everything is
something else. So Twitter, as it stands in the last five, six years, has been one of my biggest
enemies, one of the things I've been most concerned about. So I mean, in theory, I'm happy to see
some billionaire come in there and take it over and get rid of... For instance, Twitter had
Saudi Arabian intelligence agents fucking working there and using it to go after dissidents.
Twitter... But here's the thing, Twitter... I had the world record for bands on Twitter,
a permanent band. Really? Yeah. And there's some articles in the Daily Dot about that.
Just look up Barrett Brown Twitter, you'll find some articles. I was... And every single one of my
bands, which started in 2017, the three or four of them involved stuff I put out on Palantir
and other people close to Peter Thiel, every single one of those bands. And they were reversed.
All of them, except the last one, were reversed because other press spoke up, other activists
spoke up, and Twitter ended up each time saying, oh, it was a mistake, blah, blah.
So Elon Musk and Peter Thiel and Pierre Omidyar, again, who I actually worked for from prison,
writing these columns around the time that the Intercepts and its reporters
turned, essentially turned in reality winner. All three of them, none of those people are
really interested in free speech. I've seen this because they've gone out and who they've
gone after. So Elon Musk, when he goes in, he's not going to establish a free speech zone.
What he's going to do is establish what he claims to be a free speech zone.
And to the extent that it actually does, if you actually do that, it's going to be that
Twitter's going to have all these difficulties, the same difficulties that anyone has when you're
curating a big environment and anyone can say anything. It's going to be a difficult job,
even for a person who is worthwhile and respectable and has a clear head and is
transparent. Elon Musk is none of those things. So him and Peter Thiel, so Peter Thiel's
meanwhile created Rumbler. And the odds that Peter Thiel and Elon Musk didn't have some
conversations in the last six months a year about Elon Musk buying Twitter are about, there's zero
percent. So what this means is that the person who continues to gain control over our data,
Peter Thiel at the NHS, UN Refugee Program, predictive policing, works with the CIA,
FBI, works with all these things. Him and his friend, Elon Musk, cornering the market,
helping to corner the market on social media. I mean, look, Peter Thiel was at Facebook
until he left a few months ago. He didn't help to create a speech zone there either,
and Elon Musk's fuck wasn't. Facebook's another thing I got banned from about a year and a half ago
after I posted information about my former prosecutor and her involvement in racist pornography,
banned for with no express reason. And that's the least of it. Facebook also allowed a armed
ex felon in Dallas to send about 40 or 50 rape and death threats to my girlfriend at the time
from his account under his own name while the police in Dallas and the FBI in Dallas protected
him because I had gone after the police in Dallas and so forth. And this is, if people look up
bare brown bomb threat, they can find all about that. Anyway, what I'm saying is not a single one
of these people has any record that they've all been involved in intelligence community.
They've all been involved in some of the worst aspects of it.
Uh, has Elon been proven to be involved in the intelligence community other than being
affiliated with Peter Thiel? That's something I can't go into publicly for the, simply for
the reason that yet, simply the reason that there's my asylum case and some other things are going on
require that that certain parties not be aware of what we have. I'll put it that way.
But him being a partner in Peter Thiel for me is enough. So I mean, the answer to these questions
are is, uh, and that should be done publicly. Yeah. And then everyone else around them should
be debriefed by force until we know exactly how much else they've done in the last six, seven years
in terms of trying to, um, destroy the public's ability to know what's going on. Something that
Palinters been caught doing several times under Peter Thiel's grip. This is something I've said
before. I'll keep saying it. That's not a Republican or Democrat issue.
That seems a little extreme. I'm extremist. I mean, that's, I'm from Texas. We, we have
excuses every day. We say, we say this is a foreign federal prison where we say this,
you know, um,
Yeah. But isn't Elon also doing a lot of good things for the world? I mean,
as far as like creating sustainable cars and sending, getting people, you know,
creating an interplanetary, making us interplanetary, going to Mars, doing all this stuff.
Those things will, those things will happen with and without Elon Musk being around to do them.
I mean, with space program, Elon Musk, it's great that he's making rocket ships and so forth.
But if at the same time he's colluding with and supporting and giving aid and comfort to
his close partners, who meanwhile, we've caught over and over again, ensuring that this new
wonderful space based civilization of ours is under their control and involves a heavy use of
disinformation methodologies. That's what we've caught them engaged in. Then no, those rockets
just you shut the fuck down, you know, we can, we can, we can have someone else step in and take
over Tesla motor. I mean, other people can make electric, electric cars. Again, I just don't think
that number one, I don't think Elon Musk is capable of being the person he wants, he aspires to be.
I mean, and the stockholders soon would read because he's lost $70 billion in capital at Tesla
motors in the last few months. I think he's very much like other people I've dealt with much more
in person. He is someone who thinks that because they're very, they're particularly good at some
technical thing or business or whatever, that they are also thus natural philosopher kings.
I've seen that over and over again. I keep saying it. So, I mean, he could, I mean, he could be
doing a kinds of great car, doing right greats of humanity, he could build, he could create the
Volkswagen, the people's car like Hitler did, or like Stalin, he could help make sure the Russian
people who like to know how to read, while also killing them. He could be like Winston Churchill
and help win World War II, while also insisting that the Britain keeps its imperial empire.
He could be like, you know, he could be like Jared of Subway, who encouraged people to eat well
and lose weight. And there's also, you know, all kinds of things. Again, it doesn't, it doesn't
change the fact that he's a target for reasons that, unlike with Peter, Peter, Teo and Oma DR,
I mean, again, aside from what I've told you in terms of his association with them, in terms of what
that I can't go into, but he is a part of that network, the PayPal mafia. Again, the PayPal
mafia is in a term that I made up. It's a term I first heard in a conversation that we've had
with one of my fellow people being prosecuted when we've was deployed by Pierre Oma DR and Peter Teo
to intimidate them into refraining from criticizing Pierre Oma DR
after we've got hired by Oma DR and then by Peter Teo.
Elon Musk knows all this stuff. He knows all about it. I mean, his former wife,
Rhymes, was dating up until recently, my colleague Chelsea Manning. He knows who I am.
He knows what I put out. He knows the books coming out. Peter Teo, you know,
is very conversational with this as well. Andy Know, Peter Teo's other little guy
funds in jail rogue, and they know who I am. They've used their powers to help suppress
some of our information. And some of their other employees, including Weave, helped to drive my
legal defense guy, Kevin Gallagher, to death last year. And they know that happened too.
So what happened again? Say the last part again?
So a number of people. So Weave, who's been a Peter Teo employee for years and years,
and a few other people who are working with Weave, the new Andrew Arnheimer,
Grand Daily Stormer for a while, and works for Clearview AI and who was involved in helping to
to persecute me right before my arrest in 2012.
He and some of his associates who are working now, working with the US,
with the US intelligence community, and Peter Teo in this, in the Russia-Ukraine war thing,
and who are also who, it's complicated. If you look at, if you look at Aubrey Coddle,
he's a known FBI CSIS person who has been presented by some of these same journalists
that we've found work with the FBI, but presented publicly in articles as the founder of Anonymous,
even though he's, he's not, and that even the sources that he used to have privately admitted,
no, he's not, he was a he was a patrol, and he works for the FBI and CSIS, and he's,
and he's almost certainly a pedophile. That's, so these people were involved,
and shortly before I was arrested on May, yeah, May 17th, a few days before that,
they were involved in, in screwing with Kevin Gallagher, the guy who almost single-handedly
created my legal defense, and my public defense out of nothing, and was a part of Project PM,
and who has spent much of his last 10 years being pursued by the DOJ and FBI,
suing the DOJ back for, for investigating everyone who donated to my legal defense fund.
These people who are all associated with and protecting Peter Thiel, and CSIS and CIA and FBI,
they were among the last few people to have spoken to Kevin Gallagher publicly
in May before he disappeared. He disappeared the day I was arrested in the UK.
They were about to be publicly taunting him,
and then, and, but some of those people who were also found to have been privately approaching
people around me, people who work with me in different ways in those, in that same time,
and then Kevin Gallagher, you know, so disappeared for a few weeks. When I got out,
we, I noticed again, he'd been, he was absent, he had left all the groups, we couldn't find him,
we couldn't, his family didn't know where he was, so we, back on, in on June 10th, you know,
June 11th, I think, I sent someone similar to the scope to a colleague of mine to go to his house
where she found him dead, and we'll never know exactly what role, you know,
we'll never know what happened, especially because some of those involved aren't cooperating
yet. But what I'm saying is that, no, Elon, and I'm, and I'm being, I'm being,
I'm being charitable by saying you shouldn't just be,
the reason I say that is not for revenge, it's because at some point, our civilization has to
take back control of its, of its public dialogue, and its ability to not be surveilled, not be,
not be under mass surveillance, not be subjected to state and police controlled masses information
protocols. And if that's to happen, then we have to send a clear message to the same people who
try to make, try to make an example out of me, and who did make an example out of Aaron Schwartz
and Michael Hastings who blew up in 2013, and Kevin Gallagher who's now dead, and a bunch of other
people who aren't, aren't well known, but who've also not done very well as a function of being
involved, near me, like my mother, for instance. We have to say, we have to make examples out of
these people. That's Peter Thiel, Pierre Ahmadiar, everyone found to be involved. Elon Musk knows
all this stuff, he's had every opportunity in the last 10 years to, to spin a little less time on
Twitter, fucking like posting, you know, funny nonsense with the fuck, and a little more time,
maybe telling his colleagues, hey, maybe you shouldn't be trying to create a what, what, what
Peter Thiel himself describes as a non anti-democratic dark enlightenment is the term they use,
leptocracy. Dark enlightenment? Is the term that Peter Thiel uses, that's something people
should look up, it's not very well known. That's how that's how Peter Thiel likes it,
but he wrote an essay on it. And it's, it's the philosophy that's followed by a number of these
people that I've dealt with over the years and have come up against. It's, it's, and it's not,
it's not the kind of thing that my grandfather's fought to achieve in World War II. It's not the
kind of thing that my, you know, half brother tried to achieve in the first Iraq war, not the
kind of thing my uncle fought to achieve in Vietnam, and it's really not the kind of fucking thing that,
that the US or any other nation that wants to be democratic can tolerate. It should be dealt with,
just like we dealt with Nazism. Again, we have a bunch of German-born people at Peter Thiel running
around denouncing democracy, which is fine. I mean, democracy has flaws and all that,
but the alternative is not, it will, should not be, and it will not be, a oligarchy run by a bunch
of autistic fucking nut jobs who aren't, who consider themselves to be above and beyond the
rest of us, but who nonetheless, to me, my colleagues, keep catching it, keep, keep beating
nonetheless. Don't you think, don't you think Elon Musk would do a way better job running the
country than some of these other idiots that are running the country currently? I mean, it seems
like they all have the same personal motivations. They're all in it for money for their own careers,
not for the right reasons. They're not in it for the people. I mean, Elon Musk, sure,
you could say he's a piece of shit and he's got his, it's all for his own personal gain, but
wouldn't you say he's the lesser of the two evils? Oh, I think there's many more than two evils,
I'm not sure. If you mean, but the, the, the, the types that become typical politicians,
like typical politicians that are in the country. Yeah, I mean, a lot of people said the same
about Trump. You know, they said that he was going to be an outsider. He was going to change things
and all that. And, you know, and I guess in some respects he did, but I do not feel that Trump,
I mean, number one, Trump was someone who was lied constantly. Oh, I'm pro-Juan Assange,
whistleblowers, WikiLeaks. Right. Assange fell for that shit. I didn't. And Assange,
and Assange is now in a Belmarsh fucking prison, having lost a lot of his support from those of
us who insist on honesty, because Assange tried to make a deal with the Trump, Trump kids and was
caught doing so, trying to make a deal about his stone was caught doing so. Before that he
tried to make a deal with the Obama DOJ and was caught doing so. So Assange is one of these type
people talking about people who just, you know, they just think they just, they think that they're
better navigators of the, of the geopolitical and espionage sector than they are. They throw themselves
with yes men and all that. And they end up fucked up in the end, like Assange is right now.
And portray that on principles in the process. As to Elon Musk, would he make a better president
than Biden? I mean, Biden's seen now. So I'd certainly fucking hope so. Right. You know,
having said that, I mean, they're just, I mean, I really, I really don't know, actually. I don't
know. Where do you think Assange fucked up? What is your issue? What do you think that
he overlooked and overlooked in his whole situation or how he ended up? What would you
have done differently if you were in his shoes? Well, my issues with Assange are the
same issues that a lot of people who were with him from the beginning or very close to him towards
the end, the same reasons they left. And in some cases are in hiding and won't talk about him,
like Sarah Harrison, his former girlfriend and second in command, who, who, yeah, who,
Brigitte Yon's daughter, who was, who was even in that, more of that movie, but the movie they
made about him and all that former Icelandic, Icelandic pirate party member of parliament.
She left early on, you know, there's others like myself and Naomi Colvin,
who are still involved in his defense, working with his lawyers, gets a DOJ. But all of us,
I think, pretty much agree on what he did wrong. He, he lied to the public. He lied to his own
supporters. He sacrificed people like myself and Jeremy Hammond, which I would have been fine
if he had achieved something by it, but he didn't. He, he, yeah, he started with the mission of
transparency. And that's what we do, transparency. He ended up having his own girlfriend go out and
lie on his behalf. Jen Robinson, I mean, not Jen Robinson, Sarah Harrison, she had no shoes lying,
claiming that he had no, no, no dog in the race in the US presidential election. It was definitely
not supporting either side. It was not involved with either side, not working for either side,
which turned out to be absolutely false. And I know a lot of people who, like myself, have been
assault, son supporters. Again, remember, I'm someone who was a son supporter to an extent
that I was happy to go to prison on his behalf and kept running in his defense of prison till I
got out and started finding out some things and found out that he was one of his tricks of the
trade is to say, oh, he, he, the sons wants to talk to you about this. And then he doesn't,
then he doesn't show up, you know, and then he, you know, sends Kim.com to come fucking talk to me
since, you know, people like, yeah, yeah, try to have Kim.com like play me. And it didn't work
because Kim.com is another one of the same guys. He just thinks he thinks he's,
he thinks he thinks he can pull one over on people. He thinks he can pull one over on me.
What was he trying to do to pull one over on you by hooking him by setting it with Kim.com?
Well, he first, first he admitted that, that Assange, of course, was, was working on Trump's
behalf, on Trump's behalf, which, which I didn't need him to tell me that we already had documents
knowing that some of which are public, some of which are not, some of which WikiLeaks or Assange
himself has presented little portions of out of pretend that's all it is, you know, with water
stone conversations and left out the other large portions that make it clear. And just again,
he fucked up. He decided, he decided to play geopolitics. He decided to play CIA. He decided
to lie to the public. Instead of doing what our mission was, which was to make the public
give them access to the truth. And that's, that's why I lost a lot of support. And it's why the DOJ's
job became a lot easier. It's why the people who, who, like myself, you know, who, who
essentially were happy to go to 100 years, you know, over the stuff. I mean, Stratford,
you know, Stratford, HB Gary, all the stuff I was investigated for and listed on my search warrant,
these are all things that went to WikiLeaks. So is this in regards to, pardon my ignorance,
but is this in regards to the, the NGO set up that Hillary Clinton was a part of that was tied
to the Ukraine, where the DNC was working with the Ukraine to undermine Trump? No, this isn't,
this isn't really come into that situation. But that's something I'm familiar with. And that's
when people I work with have been investigating for years, people who know more about the Ukraine
and the 2016 election than I do. Of course, I was in prison for it. But this is this is the
mostly unrelated issues are on the other side of those same issues, I guess. I mean, the same
kind of chicanery the Clintons were involved in with, you know, with elements of Ukraine and other
elements, the Trump people were involved in with the Sange, you know, okay. And so that's and that's
a sad thing, because we didn't set out, you know, wanting the songs to be the equivalent of some
corrupt DNC fucking actor, or the Chinese giving money to the Clintons, you know, illegally, or
whatever, or the steel dossier people, you know, fusion GPS has not what we envisioned. We envisioned
something that was stand above that, that would be principled, that we could defend honestly,
and easily, right, proud of. And that's not what happened. And so again, and it's because of Sange,
he did he got some bad advice. He had a lot of good advice, but he didn't take it. And those who
gave him the good advice were gradually alienated. And, you know, again, he overestimated his ability
to, he started out as someone leaking information about powerful people and ended up being someone
who helped to conceal and it's part of the power for people in a way they got leaked.
It's the same story that for the last 500 years, every political movement, you know,
you know, it seems, you know, we're gonna do this, this, and this. Oh, well,
because we're the communists, we're allowed to do this. And the CIA is gonna fight the
communists, and they start out, you know, doing this properly, then it's like, because we're the
CIA, we're gonna do elections, democratic elections lie about it. When we actually
screw up and actually help communism, we're gonna cover it up. It's the same story, Democratic
Party, Republican Party, WikiLeaks, you know, you know, much else. It's the same human tendency
in which, you know, we have blind spots, blinders, and we're easy, we're able to excuse
our own and justify our own misconduct, because the enemy is or is supposedly worse.
And we get to a point where that's saying the misconduct to engage in, that gets found out,
and then suddenly, even on a pragmatic level, it was no longer helpful, was it? Like the little
breaking the rules here and there, when that is discovered, now you look bad.
And you deserve to. And you've lost your moral stature. You've lost your frontability.
That's all it takes. And again, it's an old, it happens constantly, it's a cycle that happens
throughout movements, you know, things start out, you know, being effective, they go corrupt,
you know, there's certain kinds of people who are climbers who will join groups and
they're careerists, timekeepers, bureaucrats, whatever. And there are certain kind of people,
you know, who cannot hold power wisely. They can't hold on to it. And they can't,
they can't keep their own bad instincts and check. And they don't, that's something that I do
intentionally, they don't surround themselves with people who are willing to say, Hey, you're
fucking wrong on this, fuck you. Which is what I do to ensure. And that's why I've never lost
a strong supporter of my life. In fact, I've gained a lot of assonages, including some of the people
who resigned from his some of his groups to join me a few years ago. It's because, regardless of
what my faults are, unlike Assange, or Andy, no, or whatever else, I'm not going to hide
and fail to explain anything, anything at all. I will explain openly, and candidly, and fully,
like any action I engage in, because my policy is not to do what not to engage in actions,
but I'm not willing to explain. What do you know about when I had karaoke on here a couple
weeks ago? He kind of like shocked me at the end of our talk, where he told me that he does a radio
show, a daily radio show on the Russian Sputnik radio. And he said that they don't censor him
at all, not one bit. And he said he's often critical of Putin and that whole regime. And
he never has to deal with any kind of censorship, you know, nothing close to what he deals with
in America. He said he's been banned on Apple podcasts, on Spotify, and lots of other media
platforms. What is your take on all of that? And what is your take on Russian propaganda versus
what's going on within the media, within the U.S.? So, Russia today and Sputnik are pretty
very different creatures. And I've dealt with Sputnik. I've been interviewed with Sputnik
a couple times. And I stopped going on Sputnik. I think after the first interview I did in 2017,
because they misrepresented what I said, like they, you know, this bizarre way, like I had said,
there's basically, it's like, this person did nothing. I said something about this, whatever
person did nothing wrong in that regard, their real problem was worse if they did this, and they
changed it to this person did nothing wrong, like in the headline and all that shit. And I'm not going
to fucking go in for that shit. Sputnik is also, I mean, quite well known as it is, it is a very
blatant Russian signals intelligence operation. It's been that way for years. So, there are a
couple of my, at least one of my colleagues who used to work with Sputnik early on, before determining
more about it. Having said that, as of Russia today, Sputnik oftentimes, you know, in a weird way,
these outlets are going to be more willing to take on and provide a real free forum to
U.S. dissidents, because even their criticizing Putin here, it's still a slap in the face of
the U.S. It's still showing that, yeah, look, these guys couldn't even get a gig on CNN. They
couldn't get, you know, they're not going to get a column job at fucking the Atlantic.
I mean, there's some outlets in the U.S. that, you know, where they could and can, but like, you
know, and that's one of the reasons I went on Russia today. It's like about 20, 30 times between
2010 and a few months ago, my last appearance there, which ended up being not an actual interview.
It was an interview, it was a not immediate interview, but in fact, turned out to be a
free briefing to the Russian intelligence services about certain known CIA assets. This was done
three days before the Ukraine invasion. They never broadcasted or mentioned it, and the interview
was with the Russian national, and I recorded it on my end, and we'll make that public at some point.
The tranships are already public. Anyway, so I won't deal with them again, because I don't
know, I like to be put in that position. Yeah, yeah, again, this is, we're at the center, but
between me and the people I work with, we're at the center of a lot of things, and we're very
closely watched because we know, you know, we know quite a bit, and we are of, we are active threats to
a lot of, a lot of entities. And again, that's why I was facing 105 years in prison.
