Is that a super rare valuable trait in somebody to be able to murder without emotion?
Uh, yeah.
And the truth that it is, because most of the guys that I know aren't that way.
Like, you know, even Sammy.
Sammy, you know, he told me, he says, I never, you know, Pete, they got me like, I love killing.
I don't, I hate it.
I hate it.
And when I get, when I have to do it, he says, I'm so mad at the person for breaking a rule
and forcing me to have to do this.
You know, it's business.
It's hard to realize that, but, uh, and they say the human body can get used to anything.
You can endure anything and eventually it just becomes a way of life, you know.
Uh, but, but Greg, Greg could kill you.
Like there wasn't a lawyer that once described him as good looking, articulate.
Uh, he said something like he could sit down with judges and lawyers, have dinner with you,
and for dessert, he'll kill you.
That's how he described Greg, you know, and we had the tape.
This, this, uh, uh, lawyer got caught with heroin, got arrested, so he immediately cooperated.
And they were interviewing him about all the guys from the Colombo family that he dealt with.
And we had the tape.
So how did we get that tape?
You know, Greg's connection got it.
And this was became, as we look back on, you know, uh, in time, the handwriting was on the wall.
We just couldn't believe it.
No one, he was such a killer.
Uh, you know, I'll tell you what happened during the war, which, I mean, really, uh, made it certain.
But there were things like Greg Jr. told me that just weird things that would happen where his father wasn't part of something.
The next day he found out that they all got pinched.
You know, a lot of that.
Uh, but there's a lot more of that going on.
You know, like Whitey Bulger.
Yeah.
You know, I'm sure those aren't the only two.
You know, there's, uh,
Yeah, Whitey Bulger.
Yeah, that's a fascinating story about him.
Oh, absolutely.
And how they tested those experiments on him in prison.
I don't know if you've heard about all that stuff.
No, I didn't.
I didn't.
That's all that.
There's like a famous, uh, government program called MKUltra during the, during the, um, what's the serial killer's name?
Charles Manson.
During his whole era, his reign.
They, uh, they were testing these mind control, CIA mind control tactics on prisoners, uh, by basically giving them certain doses of LSD every single day.
Wow.
And they were doing that to Whitey Bulger while he was in prison.
And he, I think he talked about it, but it was like a CIA experiment, a mind control experiment.
Wow.
Huh.
Um, anyways.
Yeah.
I'm curious about like what, what kind of like human traits did you notice in a guy like this, Gregory, who, what, that makes him able to just murder somebody?
Well, you know, it's the same thing.
It's, it's, it becomes second nature.
He, he, he was a, he was born in the life.
I mean, at 15, 16 years old, he was already in the street stealing, beating people up, doing all the things that, uh,
So he's conditioned in very, very young age.
An up and coming guy.
And somebody that's already in the life sees this trait in him, sees that he's, he's, uh, he's tough.
Uh, he's got balls.
He's got, you know, got what it takes.
Okay.
And then they groom you.
Okay.
I was groomed.
I was taught, educated the way of the life.
Uh, I don't think that's happening anymore today because I could see the different people that are in the life now.
Uh, it's not the same.
It's definitely not the same.
They, they, they miss that grooming and teaching and, and having a person become, uh, a consummate wise guy.
That when you walk into a place, they know who you are.
That you don't have to tell them.
They say, this guy's, uh, somebody to respect.
And Greg always had that.
He got straight and out.
I think he was 18.
He got his button.
What does that mean?
Uh, when you get made into the family.
Okay.
Officially inducted.
Okay.
Become an official member of the family.
Uh, to have it at that age, you had to have somebody that saw a lot about you.
Uh, and he loved money.
He loved money.
So there's nothing he wouldn't do to earn money.
I mean, every, every racket there was, he was in.
Uh, you know, from Joker poker machines to the number of business Shylock and he was a Shylock to Shylocks.
What's a Shylock?
You lend money, uh, at exorbitant rates.
So you give a guy a thousand dollars and you could charge anywhere from, he would charge me $10, but I would charge 30, 40 or 50 per week.
That's the interest.
They have to pay that every week until they hand you back a thousand.
Okay.
So he had, uh, he was making, I mean, just what I knew about from the close guys, about 25,000 a week in interest every week without fail.
Nobody mispayments.
All the people that were getting these loans from him knew that the collateral was their life.
Yes.
Well, they're, they're well-being.
Right.
You know, he wouldn't probably kill them.
They're going to get their legs broken or something.
Right.
Right.
We went to work on guys all the time that didn't pay.
And, uh, even that become, you know, second nature.
You know, they start you out where you're doing, uh, where somebody you're beating up did something very bad, like robbed an old woman in the neighborhood.
Okay.
Or found out they were selling drugs by the school.
We go give them a beating.
You feel proud in a way.
You think you did the right thing.
You got this drug deal away from the school or you got even with, uh, uh, this person that robbed some of a friend's grandmother.
You know, then you participate just because the guy owes money, but you're already seasoned that they take baby steps.
They never ask you to kill your friend.
That's like a myth.
Like your best friend.
No.
They're not going to ask you.
Right.
The ones they're going to ask you to kill is somebody, again, early on, somebody that did something really bad.
Later on, it becomes looser.
This guy, you know, had a fight with, uh, Junior Percego's nephew and Junior Percego's nephew lost the fight.
We have to go kill the guy.
I mean, it's a fight.
Yeah.
I got fights growing up.
If I, if I, I would have been killed five times for winning a fight.
You know, I lost fights too.
Don't get me wrong.
But, uh, it's just, uh, I actually got called to a meeting, uh, that I had a, I was in an after hours and we weren't supposed to be in after hours.
What's the after hours?
Okay.
The night clubs closed at four o'clock and there's clubs that open at four.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
They were illegal, but, you know, they were all around.
Uh, so I was in one of these places and I get a beef with, uh, I find out later on is Paul Castellano's nephew.
I didn't know.
And he picked a bad time because I was really at the peak of my martial arts.
I was good and I won the fight.
Okay.
I didn't abuse him.
I didn't keep hitting him when he was down.
Once he went down and I walked away, it was over.
The next night I get a call.
I have to go to the diner and it's like late at night, almost morning.
It's one of the 24 hour diners, you know.
And I'm thinking to myself, why do I got to go see Greg at two o'clock in the morning?
You know, it's, it's a little.
Oh, it's Greg.
You had to go see.
Well, he's doing that call for me.
Right.
So I get there.
I see Sammy the bull hanging out outside.
He says hello to me.
I walk in.
Who's sitting scabby or captain?
Greg and Paul Castellano.
You're shitting your pants.
So I, I, no, I don't know what happened yet.
Okay.
Greg now comes over to me and walks me outside to the front door and he says, what happened
last night?
I said, what are you talking about?
I says, I, we went out.
I says, you got a beef?
I said, oh yeah, I got to fight.
I says, you know, you know what happened once in a while?
He says, well, that was Paul.
He's nephew.
So I said, I didn't know.
And he's telling me he wants satisfaction.
He wants to kill me.
So scabby, but I learned the lesson here too.
So scabby is talking on our behalf.
He's captain.
He was, he was a boss for a while, very well respected.
And, uh, so I remember now he's Paul's talking to me.
He says, if it wasn't for scabby, okay, you'd be dead already.
Now Greg got mad.
So he says, if the hair is harmed on his head, I said, you'll find more bodies in the street.
Now scabby had to, to Greg, you know, he shouldn't have said that, but he's feared.
Paul would have shit his pants if they had to go to water together.
You know, Paul was no Greg.
Right.
He was a boss and he was a businessman.
So anyway, long story short, I had a like, I owed scabby my life now.
Right.
Because he saved me.
So now I owed him.
What kind of a guy was scabby?
Scabby, old school, old time mob guy that died in prison.
Uh, he got it, uh, 133 years.
And he's the guy that they quoted the newspaper.
When he got the 133 years, he looked at Junior Persker.
He says, well, we only got to do two thirds.
And it was in the newspaper.
And then when he got the time, he was about 65.
So obviously he was never coming home.
Uh, Junior never came home.
Uh, so anyway, the funny part of this is after it's over with,
I walk outside, I talk to Sammy real quick and he said, while I'm walking away,
he says you should have killed that cocksucker.
Oh, shit.
He didn't like the kid.
So that was funny.
Yeah.
