Thanks for coming on AJ Wilkerson, I appreciate you doing this dude, thanks for having me
this is dope as fuck, your van is super dope, I love it.
My van is a shit box on wheels, but I love it, it's my shit box, everybody needs their
own shit box man, so what's your store for people who aren't familiar with you?
What is your story and what's your background?
So I'm a stand up comedian and I'm autistic, so I started stand up like two years ago after
I got diagnosed and got my medical marijuana prescription, the anxiety was really the thing
that kept me from doing it, I just thought before I found out I was autistic I just thought
it was just really bad anxiety and I thought I had some other mental health shit going
on, but I just thought I love stand up but I was just like that's not something I'll
ever physically be capable of doing and then I got diagnosed and then I got my medical
marijuana card and weed gives you that little bit of fuck around and find out, like yeah.
So it was a big help?
Yeah, mixed a little yee-ee in the sauce and gave it a shot.
How old were you when you got diagnosed with thought disorder?
30.
30?
Yeah.
That's weird, that seems like super late doesn't it?
Kind of but not really, so a lot more people are getting diagnosed later in life now because
people just didn't know a lot about it when we were growing up, there's this generation
gap with autism, so I was born in 88 and Asperger's wasn't even a diagnosable condition until
months after I was born, so by the time they start testing for that I was like 4 or 5,
there still was so little known about it, and I was smart enough that I could pass most
of my testing and education stuff and so it just kind of slipped through the cracks.
And I was intelligent enough that I learned my own coping mechanisms and camouflage techniques
and masking techniques to blend in with everybody, so I knew how to fit in but it just caused
so much mental wear and tear from basically constantly acting and pretending to hide in
it.
Yeah.
Well autism doesn't necessarily mean you're not intelligent, right, Elon Musk just said
that he has Asperger's.
If I had been diagnosed earlier in life I would have technically what would be Asperger's,
they just don't diagnose it as Asperger's anymore, it all falls under autism spectrum
disorder now.
Really?
Yep.
Since when?
Since like 2007, 2010, somewhere in there.
Wow, I had no idea.
I didn't either, I didn't know until I was getting diagnosed, like when I was doing my
initial like observation and everything and like 15 minutes into like a four hour appointment
like the doctor just stops and he's like, so just so you know, you're definitely on
the spectrum.
You know, we're going to keep going and figure out, you know, exactly where but you're definitely
autistic.
Right there.
Yeah.
So what are the key signs to tell that you're autistic?
So it's not that there's really key signs because autism there's, it's, it's literally
it's a spectrum.
There's so many different facets, like facets to it.
So like, the best way I can explain is like think about like a color wheel, like throw
darts at a color wheel and wherever those darts land are like the traits that this autistic
person would have.
But everyone gets to throw, everyone like throws their own darts, you know what I mean?
So like for me, like my autism is, I have like, I have issues with communicating sometimes.
So like I didn't realize until after I was older and like getting diagnosed was like,
oh, not everybody does this, but like I'll build word clouds in my head.
So I know where I'm going in a conversation and like, but then that means I'm not listening
as much to the other half of the conversation because I'm thinking of, what do I say next
to keep this conversation going and not seem like a weirdo, you know, so really to that.
So things like that, I struggle a lot with like executive function.
So like that, that voice you have in your head, like when your alarm clock goes off,
you know, and you hit the snooze button twice, that voice in your head when the alarm goes
off that third time, it's like, Hey, we can't hit snooze, like we got to get up, we got
to go to work, we got to pay bills, we got to, I don't have that, whatever that thing
is that kind of keeps you on track or at least not in like the traditional sense.
It's more like, like we have, we have terrible radio signal, like, and we're just communicating
through walkie talkies, you know what I mean?
So when I'm, when I'm up on a hill, you know, I can, I can hear them, you know, I've got
that reception and I've got that inner, but then when I'm, you know, when I'm down, you
know, in a valley, not getting reception, you know, so can't really communicate with
the warden, you know, I call him the, I call him the warden because recently I did acid
for the second time and I did like a guided meditation that a friend had sent me.
And so yeah, the whole Pink Floyd triangle thing, like talk to your inner self.
And I literally, I was like, Hey, look, the warden, the inmates can't be running the asylum
here.
All right.
You got to take control here.
Yeah.
I had like my own little psychedelic come to Jesus moment, you know, super cool.
Yeah, dude.
Yeah.
You can see that.
Like when you watch Elon talk, I always thought that.
It was just like, he was so smart.
That's why he talked like that because he just has too many ideas to be able to cycle
through his.
Well, and that's kind of, that's kind of the other part of it for me is like, is like
information processing.
Like if you think about like your brain is like a highway, right?
Like most people have so many lanes and so it's easier for them to direct traffic.
Well, I've got like an 18 lane fucking highway, you know, like, so I'm just trying to frogger
across and just grab hold of something.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So there's just so many ideas flying by at one time that it's hard to stay on track
and focus.
But then the other aspect of that is if I do grab onto something, I can fall into that
hole and not come out for days.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like, um, during COVID, I was, I was doing, I was working on a tour and we were trying
to put together like some video stuff.
And so I was doing video editing and I literally fell into a hole and I, I was editing video
for 42 hours straight.
You know, sleep, you know, like bathroom breaks and food and that was it.
And I just, I was just in a hole.
I couldn't stop.
You were just hyper-focusing.
Yeah.
Well, it was, it was that and it was like, I can't let this go until it's done because
I know I have that thing in my brain.
It's like, I know once I let it go, it's going to be really hard getting back here.
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
They say that a lot of people who are like really good at certain things, like a lot
of, like a lot of people who are, I always thought that pro video game players, some,
some of them because they're so anti-social and they're so really good and like laser
focused at this one thing, this one specific game.
And there's another guy who Clay Marzo, he's a professional surfer and he was like a very
anti-social guy.
I didn't like to talk to people, didn't like to talk to anybody, but he was like one of
the best, wildest, most creative surfers I've ever seen.
And I always, for some reason, just associated Asperger's with people like that.
Yeah.
Like laser focused on one thing.
It's all they can think about.
Well, and that's, it's, you're, you're fucking spot on because that's the deal, but for me
for a long time, like because I didn't, I wasn't sure what that thing was for me that
I was going to be really good at.
And so I didn't realize it, but I'd have these really intense hobbies, but I would only have
them for really short periods of time.
Like I've learned to do all sorts of crazy shit.
Like I grew up in construction, like we were talking about outside, excuse me.
So I got into like woodworking and like crafting stuff and like, like making things from wood.
And I was, you know, doing a lot of woodwork and like had, like did like an Etsy store
and was like selling stuff on there.
And then from, from woodworking, then like I got burnt out on woodworking and I was like,
this isn't it.
I don't want to do this.
But you know, maybe it is something with my hand, something tactile with my hand.
So then I went into like leatherworking and then I went into like the kydex making those
like molded plastic like holsters and stuff like that.
And then from there, I went into like, like the fucking, I don't have any to, but like
the paracord, like how people make like the bracelets and the lanyards and like, yeah.
So I was making like these braided like, you know, 12 foot dog leashes out of, you know,
making these weird jigs so I could like, you know, make all these weird patterns and designs
and stuff.
And so I just, I would have these weird intense focuses and then I would just burn out on them.
And just go to something else.
Like, yeah, seven, eight months and then be like, nope, this isn't it.
What's next?
You know, and I was in one of those when I was getting diagnosed, I wanted to make like
my own cartoon.
I was like, that's, this is the next thing.
Like I want to do something creative and fun, you know, and so I was trying to make my own
cartoon.
So I was like trying to teach myself how to draw and how to animate and how to like storyboard
and like all of this stuff all at the same time.
And while we were doing the, like the observation that appointment at the University of Florida
at their Center for Autism and Related Disabilities, like going through all of that and I was telling
him about this idea and he's like, so you definitely like you, like you need like a
creative outlet of some kind, but the, like what you're trying to do now isn't releasing
that pressure valve.
Like there's too many obstacles between you and releasing that actual pressure from your
brain.
It's like, why don't you just try like, you want to make people laugh.
It's not like you have like a, like humor seems to be like the element you're best with
communicating with.
So why don't you try like doing like an open mic or something.
And I was like, all right, sure, let's, you know, and then I fucking did it.
And then ever since then I was like, this is the thing, like that first time I, like
I got a laugh on stage, like, like something just kind of clicked into place, man.
Okay.
It was a doctor that suggested open, uh, stand up comedy, yeah.
That's really.
Yeah.
During that observation, we spent like four hours together and literally it's just, it's
all, it's almost like in, like if someone were interviewing you for like to, to like
write your biography, you know what I mean?
Like everything about your life, like what do you remember from your childhood?
What about this?
Like what about this?
Like all of these questions and as he starts building this up, like he's basically building
a profile of like, you know, these are some of your traits.
Like these are some of the things you struggle with, like going through all of that.
And that was just something that he highlighted was like, you need like some like method of
creativity because they're like, you, you have, I saw that, that talking about that
highway earlier, he's like, you're basically your highways backed up because you can't
get this traffic off of the highway.
Yeah.
So you have to find a way to get this traffic off the highway or it's never going to unblock.
You know?
And so that's why he's like, you know, you have all of these hurdles, like teaching
or you're trying to teach yourself how to draw and animate and storyboard and trying
to learn like five different skills at one time.
Yeah.
That's a lot.
And you have to do all of that before you can reach that create creative level.
So you're, you're basically hampering yourself, like just go straight to the tap.
Yeah.
You say it when you reach the creative level, you mean like so, like, you mean like releasing
it to the public and letting people experience what you created or the creative process of
it.
Because the creative process, obviously something like a cartoon, there's a lot of, there's
like days and hours and weeks and months of production and drawing.
Right.
And so I would call that production versus like the creative process of actually like
sitting down and like writing out the ideas, but then also getting that feedback of presenting
it to an audience.
You know what I mean?
Right.
And getting that feedback and response because like you can write it, but if you write it
and it just sits somewhere, like have you actually like, it's almost like you haven't
finished.
You know what I mean?
Like it's not done.
Like it's out, but you still need that feedback before like, you know, like you need to make
sure that traffic is safe to exit before you can kick it out completely.
You know what I mean?
Like is this something I need to, I need to bring back and keep in my head because I
need to rework on it and make it better or is this the final version.
So I have to do that before I can clear that traffic from the freeway and he's like, that's
where your holdup is.
Just get out in front of people.
Get the, like that's immediate feedback.
Right.
You know?
How do you do any creative writing prior to that?
When I was a kid, you know, like I won, so that was the thing.
Like looking back now was like, wow, I should have been on this track of like creative writing
the whole time.
Cause like in a second, third and fourth grade, like I won awards for like children's writing
contests and stuff.
Like I won like a young authors award for like a children's book about a princess and
a dragon.
Like it was, you know, just stuff kids write, you know?
Which you obviously go down at them.
Yeah.
But part of talking about like that executive function and like task management and things
like that, once I got to a certain point in school, what we were learning was boring
to me because like I learned this on my own.
Like I'm going to read my own book.
I'm going to do my own thing.
You know?
So you kind of get like, you kind of lose track of what you're doing when you like, when
you're, if you're intelligent and you give your, you get free time and there's no structure
to it, you know, it just goes off somewhere.
So it never, it never made it to creative writing because that was given as an assignment.
So it felt like work.
Like I didn't have, I never reached that point where I was like, oh no, this is a fun thing
for me because it was somebody telling me to do it as opposed to me wanting to do it.
You know?
And like, like if you force someone to do something, even if it's something they enjoy,
there's going to be that.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So it took me like rediscovering it later in life to realize like, oh, you know, because
I was just, I was just in my friends group because I like, I have a small circle of people
that I just, I'd gotten so comfortable with.
We've been friends for like decades, you know what I mean?
And like some people like I can meet and things just click like there's no awkward anything
was like, oh no, I get this person and then we're, we're good, you know?
But it's, that doesn't happen often.
So I have like a small group of friends and I was, you know, I was the funny friend.
And then, you know, at a certain point I was like, like, one of my friends Ben like used
to encourage me, he's like, you should try open mics.
And I was like, like I said, I can't physically do it.
Yeah.
You know?
Cause like I tried it.
I went to try it one time.
I went to an open mic when I was like 23 and I was going to go up on stage and I was just,
I was shaking so bad, I went to the bathroom, threw up and just left.
I didn't even watch the show.
Yeah.
It was just, yeah.
Super bad anxiety.
And then I was going to try again when I was married.
So I was like 26.
We're going to try again and I was not a healthy relationship.
So she talked me out of it.
It was like, you know, do you really, like, do you really think you're funny enough that
other people are going to want to hear, like sit and listen to you?
And I was like, good call.
Good point.
No.
Yeah.
Cause who, yeah, who's full of themselves enough to be like, yeah, there's a room full
of people is definitely going to want to hear what I have to say.
Right.
So I just didn't have that.
What was it like the first time you actually went on stage and did a set?
Terrifying.
Uh, and I, and here's the thing, like at the time I wasn't good.
Like I'm still not good.
Like cause like I said, I've always been a fan of comedy.
So I've studied comedy and like, you know, and so like, like, I know what like the great
level is, you know, in my, in my brain, I know what that like, that marker is.
And I know I'm nowhere near that marker.
You know what I mean?
Like I am on the footpath outside of the parking lot outside of my Mount Everest.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But you're heading in.
Yeah.
I'm heading in.
I'm heading in.
You know, we're getting a little elevation here.
But at the time, I mean, at the time it was my first time ever doing it.
So I had like one, like, like three minute story bit that I was doing in it.
Like I had, I had like maybe like three lines in three minutes that got like a laugh, but
I got that first one.
And I was like, Oh, and then I had like some giggles and stuff like that.
Yeah.
You know, but those three laughs was like three.
That's all I needed.
I got three, you know, and from there, it was just all in.
Like I found like a comedy, like a writer's group, like a writer's workshop, and that
would meet every Sunday.
And so I started going to that and like working and like, like coming in with new material
and workshopping material and stuff.
And then the guy that led that workshop was like this, this old road comic and he kind
of like took me under my wing and became like my comedy dad.
Cool.
And, you know, maybe like three months in after, after a show.
So we had this show at like a world of beer out in like this small little town called
Jonesville.
And it was like, it was in one of those like mini shopping centers that was right outside
of like a, like a gated community kind of thing.
So everyone from that community came to that bar.
Right.
So my first time doing that show, I did like 10 minutes.
And after the show, Bob pulled me aside, he's like, Hey, you did a really great job.
Blah, blah, blah.
He's like, but I know like that's all the material you have right now.
So I can't have you back out here for a couple of weeks.
Like I have to let people forget your stuff.
Right.
Yeah.
But in my head, I was like, Oh, challenge accepted.
And that was like a Thursday show.
And I showed up Sunday to the workshop with a whole new 10 minutes.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And so it went through that.
After that workshop, um, he pulled me aside.
He's like, he's like, I don't know.
He's like, I don't know if like anyone said this to you yet or anything.
He's like, but the fact that you could do that that quickly and come back and like you have
that tenacity for it, he's like, you could do this for a living if you wanted to.
And as soon as somebody said that, like, oh, you can do this for a living.
I was like, bet, that's what we're doing sick, you know?
And so I just dove all the way in and I started treating it like I started treating it like
my job.
Yeah.
How long has it been?
Two years.
Two years.
That's insane.
Like for me to be where I'm at in two years.
Uh, yeah.
Like so, um, so dirt right before COVID, I got, so I'd been doing comedy like 11 months.
Um, and I got booked for my first tour and it was through this like entertainment company
out of Tallahassee.
And so it was like, it was a variety tour.
So it was like a couple, like two rappers, like an R&B singer, um, like some spoken word
poach and I was the only comedian on the, you know, um, but they, they booked us like
this Airbnb in Tallahassee for six months.
We, we all went to Tallahassee, we were rehearsing for a couple of weeks and then starting the
tour.
And, uh, the day after we signed paperwork lockdown started, oh, yeah.
So we're all in this Airbnb in Tallahassee, I'd given up, you know, my place and stuff
like that.
So we were just in this Airbnb for the tour, you know, and, uh, we stayed for a couple
more weeks.
We like rehearsing and we did a couple, like a couple of like streaming shows, just trying
then eventually we realized like it's not opening up anytime soon, like tours canceled.
And so from there I was like, okay, so I have until this date basically to be out of the
Airbnb and then I'm homeless.
So what do we do?
Like what's the move?
And so I was like, this is what I want to do.
Like I got this tour.
I can get something else, you know what I mean?
And I, so I just bought a van, converted it into like a shitty camper, like a, it's a
real redneck lanyard man, like it's, yeah, uh, but what kind of van is it?
It's a 1987 GMC safari.
Nice.
Yeah.
It was a, it was a wheelchair conversion.
So it had like the, uh, the fiberglass like pop top on it.
Okay.
For some extra room.
Yeah.
For some extra room and it had, it had a wheelchair lift in it, but the previous owners, uh, when
they tried to take the wheelchair lift out after like the, the older relative had passed
away.
They busted out the side window.
So it's just plywood, plywood window.
Yeah.
Real skeevy looking, you know, fits in good in Florida.
How do you run the ACE?
Do you leave it running all night?
Or how do you?
No.
So I have a, I have a generator on like one of those like hitch carriers on the tailgate.
Yeah.
Um, so, and I've got like a window AC unit, like in the, in the back of the roof.
So yeah.
So I can run the generator and run that air conditioner, but more, more often what I do
is I've got a, uh, I've got like a little solar battery pack, like one of those ones
you get from like REI, like a 500 watt solar pack that I can recharge through my cigarette
lighter and stuff.
Oh, cool.
And so, and then I've got one of those little desktop portable air conditioners that you
fill with like ice water and then it like pushes out like cold air.
Oh, really?
And so I set that up in the back of the van and run it off of that pack.
Nice.
Yeah.
And then I've got like the, like that insulation, like that, uh, like the tin foil with the air
bubbles in it.
Oh yeah.
Like the foam and stuff.
Yeah.
So I've got those and I've got them like set up like with a little like adhesive pads,
like the Velcro.
Yeah.
So I put those over the windows and stuff and insulate the windows and my clothes hang
up like on a rod.
So I push them over in front of like the sliding door and that kind of insulates more from
the door side.
Then I roll down like a, uh, like a moving blanket between like the front and back of
the cab.
There you go.
Wow.
So you've been in this van for a year now?
Almost a year.
Yeah.
Like where were you living before you had the van?
Um, in, uh, in Gainesville, like my family's from like Williston and Levy, well originally
Bronson, but Levy County area, which is right outside of Gainesville.
So Gainesville was like the big city for us.
Okay.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Like from the, from the woods, like, you know, I just, I mask it well, like I don't have
an accent because my entire life have been, oh, I can talk like this and blend in here
and I can talk like this and blend in over here.
So yeah.
Well, there's not many parts of Florida that are like that are like woodsy.
Yeah.
There's just like Tallahassee and Gainesville area.
Yep.
Just that little strip in the middle.
Yeah.
That little strip's a weird strip, huh?
Every time I go to Tallahassee, I feel like I'm in a different world.
Tallahassee.
The whole middle of the state's like that.
Tallahassee.
All the way up and down.
Yep.
There's like that weird, that triangular section from like Jacksonville, Gainesville, Tallahassee.
Yeah.
That little section is like not safe for minorities.
I mean.
Yeah.
That's why it's a fucking wild place.
Unless they're good at sports.
And it's like.
And if they're good at sports.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was riding through over by like Lakeland and it's very like in the middle of the state
like farmland area and stuff.
And there's like one old beat down billboard and it says home of Ray Lewis, where he went
to high school and played football is right there.
But it's like the most raggedy Ray Lewis sign you would think he has.
No, Ray Lewis was from here.
You know, I didn't.
I've heard that before.
I didn't know it was like over there in Lakeland, but he went to Lakeland High or whatever
that school is.
But there's a rundown billboard with a picture of him on it.
That's fucking hilarious.
Florida is a football state.
Yeah.
You watch football?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I may.
Here's the thing.
I'm basically I'm like a NASA super computer that was programmed by Rednecks.
So yeah.
So like my like my big hobby is fantasy football because it's like we play a lot of fantasy.
There's nothing more autistic than fantasy football.
Oh yeah.
Like any actually any fantasy sports like you just zone in my buddy Brian like one of
my oldest friends like we have a regular league with a bunch of our buddies and stuff
like that.
That's our football league.
A couple of them are all in a fantasy hockey league together.
And so a couple of years ago he's like, Hey man, do you want to play fantasy hockey with
us?
And I was like, I don't know shit about hockey.
But I did it.
Like I joined like I paid 50 bucks to basically lose at fantasy hockey.
And I came in.
I made it to the championship game.
Shit.
Yeah.
Just based on numbers.
Just from like watching the numbers.
And I was like, Oh, this is like my Rain Man skill.
Yeah.
You know.
Wow.
Because that's what it's like.
You don't really have to know that.
But here's the thing.
Fantasy stats.
Like just stats for some reason I'm good with.
So are you winning in fantasy or what?
Um, yeah, I went pretty, like I'm out of hockey now.
I played like, I played two seasons.
But the first year I just, I didn't have anything else really going on at the time.
So I was just all in on fantasy hockey, like every day going through like waivers and like
reading stats.
Yeah.
You can like use his websites, the cheat websites, right?
So like find out all this info like who you should pick up.
I mean, you can.
Of course I do.
You can if you don't know anything about hockey, but like it's harder if you don't know, like
because you don't know what sites to check.
Like it's a whole new sport for me.
So it's like, who do I trust in this sport?
You know what I mean?
Like with fantasy football, like, you know, I'm a big Matthew Berry guy, you know, and
then, uh, uh, like, uh, football guys like a commentator.
Yeah.
Matthew Berry is like a fancy and common.
Yeah.
And, uh, fantasy football now, like the show they do every Sunday, like the pregame show
that's all fantasy.
That's Matthew Berry.
So like I trust him, you know, and there's a couple other people who's like, I like
combine their opinions and be like, okay, so this is what the, they all think about
this guy.
And, you know, but I don't know who to do that with in hockey.
So I was literally just going off stats and like the little updates in the actual app
itself.
Like, oh, this player is, you know, on this streak.
And I'm like, okay, well, he's on a streak.
Leave him there.
Yeah.
You know, that kind of shit.
And, uh, yeah, I made it to the championship game.
Yeah, you killed it.
Yeah.
The problem with fantasy shit is such a waste of fucking time.
That's exactly, it's such a big time suck.
Yeah.
But like I said, at the time, I didn't have anything else going on.
Like I was, like, especially like years and years ago, like undiagnosed, you know,
thinking it was other mental health problems.
So it was like, you know, I don't really, I'd started like, like kind of distancing
myself more and more from society and kind of become like a hermit, you know.
So what else?
It was not like I was doing anything, you know, so, and then now like I'm slacking
off on fantasy because I'm fucking always at comedy shows and stuff, you know.
Are you going to play, are you going to play fantasy football this year?
Oh, yeah.
I'm still in like that league with my buddies over here.
Yeah.
How much money do you guys bet?
Um, I think this year we're doing like 25.
Like, yeah, it's not anything.
Yeah.
Our football one's not big, but it's like, uh, it's like, uh, uh, keeper league.
Oh, you keep the players in the previous year.
Well, Seth, like we keep like four.
You can, or no, I'm sorry, we keep three.
Hmm.
Hmm.
Two.
We drop it down.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
So we, every year you can keep two guys, but you can only keep them up until like, so
every year they cost you one round higher.
So like, if you keep a guy from his rookie season and he's like undrafted the, the
following year, you keep him and he's like a 15th round pick.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
But then the year after that, he's a 14th and the year after that, he's a 13th and
so on and so forth.
So you can only keep guys up until they reach the fourth round.
Okay.
And then after that, they're freebies or just free.
They go back into the draft pool.
Right.
Okay.
Yeah.
So like, so I've had Patrick Mahomes since his rookie season.
Oh, shit.
His rookie season was like the best super fucking points.
That was his, that was his sophomore season.
It was his first year as a starter because his rookie season, he sat behind
Alex Smith until like the last game and a half of the season.
Okay.
Well, the first season he played.
Yeah.
The first season he started and they fucking won the Super Bowl.
Yeah.
We're dropping like 40, 50 point games.
How about the other quarter?
Wait, wait, who is the guy?
Alex Smith.
Yeah.
How about when he broke his leg?
Oh, yeah.
We snapped his shin in half.
And he actually came back.
Like he came back and played a couple of games.
Yeah, but didn't he, he played a couple of games and then he heard it again.
Didn't he?
He had to like hit the knee.
No, he's just, he's just older, less mobile still, you know, things like that.
So he just lost the job.
That's like the scariest fucking injury.
It was the Joe Thysman injury.
Like that was the same exact injury that ended Joe Thysman's crew with the
Lawrence Taylor when he snapped his leg when he played for the Redskins.
I don't even know that story.
Oh, yeah.
Joe Thysman, like Lawrence Taylor hit Joe Thysman in the leg and shattered his leg
the same way Alex Smith's.
Really?
So gross.
Yeah.
Did he have like the complications that Alex Smith had?
Yeah, it ended his career.
He never played another down of football after that.
Because Alex almost lost his leg, right?
Yeah, especially, yeah, because he had like infections and stuff too.
But so not only did he get over like the infections and the injury, but like just
modern medicine and science and physical therapy got him to the point that he could
still play professional football after that.
Yeah, they said he never even walked or anything.
Yeah.
That's great.
And then that UFC fighter just did that like last weekend where he kicked the guy
and his shin snapped in half and tried to stand back down and just like.
Well, like, think about like, think about like Ryan Shea's year.
Oh, yeah.
Like that was spinal cord injury.
They thought he'd never walk.
Yeah, never.
And now he's walking out for fucking to the 50 yard line and shit.
And yeah, it's super cool.
I love I love stories like that.
Yeah, dude.
That's terrifying.
That is like worst case scenario when I'm playing football and you break
your neck.
Oh, yeah, I watched that game live.
I remember.
Yeah, I was I was absolutely sure that was how
Brett Farve's career was going to end.
I was like the old because remember, he kept like, I'm going to retire.
No, I'm coming back.
I'm going to retire.
No, I'm coming back.
And then like Green Bay is like, look, we've had enough air.
Aaron Rodgers is the guy.
And so then he went and played for like Minnesota.
And then when he went to the Jets, I was like, he's going to play until he dies.
And this is where it's going to happen.
Yeah, the Jets, it'll happen there.
Yeah, like he literally just walked into a dumpster fire and was like,
this is how I'm going out like.
So I was sure he was going to die on the field.
You see they're bringing Tim Tebow back.
No, I was a tight end.
The Jack wires just picked him up.
I mean, you know, there's they really did.
Yeah, no fucking way.
Yeah, they picked him up for one year.
I mean, it makes sense.
I mean, it's Urban Meyer reunited with Tim Tebow in his hometown of Jacksonville.
At the very least, they're going to sell tickets.
Oh, big.
You know, God, they're going to sell at least double his salary and tickets.
So it's paid for.
They got that long hair, dude, right?
Trevor, Trevor Lawrence, yeah.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
That's going to be fun to watch.
OK, so here's the thing.
So like I'm autistic, right?
And like I love like seeing autistic people succeed at things like Dan
Akroyd is autistic, like fantastic.
Anthony Hopkins just won an Oscar and came out as like he's on the spectrum.
Is he autistic?
Yeah, Anthony Hopkins, sir, Anthony Hopkins.
Nobody did.
That's the thing.
Like that's what I'm talking earlier about, like masking and being
able to like pick up those skills, like where I can step into like a group
and blend into that group.
Like most autistic people, like when people are like, oh, I didn't know
you were autistic.
It's like, yeah, because I've developed next level coping mechanisms
that are fucking Oscar worthy.
All right.
So but that's the thing.
Like he's literally a chameleon because he's been that way his whole life
and he had to learn those skills at a young age.
And he just figured out a way to turn.
He's like, I already have these skills.
Use them as a career.
Right.
You know, like he found ways to fit that in until he realized what he was.
Wow.
Yeah.
How fucking awesome.
Like he made it to like fucking 89 years old before he found out.
Really?
Damn, that's crazy.
Yeah.
He was, he was just diagnosed like this year.
Damn.
Wow.
That's insane.
Yeah.
Like why would you, I don't even understand like the process.
Like, like I just want to go in and get diagnosed if I have it.
Like when you're that old, like, wow, I don't know if I'd bother.
I mean, you've like probably just knew the whole time kind of right.
Well, and I think as you get older, like you do more and more like self
reflection and more stuff like that.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And especially like he had his career had slowed down.
You know, he was kind of stepped away from the spotlight and was just
doing like limited projects.
So a lot more time to himself to think and like spend time with his
own thoughts, because think about how long his career was playing other people.
Do you think autism could just, I mean, I don't want to sound like a dickhead.
No, not at all.
Do you think autism could just be like a personality trait and there's
just severity differences?
I don't think so.
I think it's.
So I feel like so many people could have, you know, a dash here, a dash there,
a little bit more, you know, that's, that's, I guess, the way I would more describe it.
As I think autism is just is like, you have introvert extrovert.
Yeah, I think autism is specific human traits amplified.
So like it, we're, because like a typical neurological person is basically, we were
talking about that color wheel earlier, like a typical neurological person is
basically dead center of the color wheel.
You know, so we are basically all those darts thrown around it and those are just
like those parts of like a typical human experience.
Like you may be a completely neurological person, but you may might have like one
special talent here, right?
And that's how that we know when they're like, oh, everyone's a little autistic.
You might have one dart that you got to throw.
I've got 18, you know what I mean?
Like so there it's, it's though all of those human traits, like whatever traits
certain autistic people present with, it's just, it's that, it's a human trait, but
it just magnified so many times and it, because it, and it just makes it more intense.
So you know,
Do you ever sniff out people who maybe have autism or like a time now?
It's like, it's like when you buy like a yellow car and then now you see all the yellow cars.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's a very similar thing.
Yeah.
People who don't even know it.
Maybe.
Yeah.
Well, so do you guys remember it was like a Disney movie?
Or it was like a Disney plus documentary about the dude that climbed like El Capitan.
That rock climbing documentary.
Like Free Climb.
Are you sure it was Disney?
Yeah, Free Climb.
That was the documentary.
Yeah.
Free Solo.
With the guy with the big giant hands.
Free Solo.
That was insane documentary.
So I, when that documentary came out, I was watching with a couple of friends and literally
three minutes into the documentary, I was like, this dude's autistic.
Okay.
And then it got to the point when it was talking about his dad and his dad had passed away,
but when he was talking about his dad, he's like, my dad had what would have now been
known as like Asperger syndrome.
And I was like, fucking knew it.
He's autistic.
Yep.
Oh yeah.
And it was, there was like a line in the, in the documentary when he's like talking to
his fiance, right?
Cause she's all nervous about him climbing with no safeties and stuff like that.
And like, you know, he's like, and she's like, whenever you leave and whenever you like
untether and you're climbing, like, do you ever, in that moment, do you ever think about
like me or like what I would do if you didn't make it?
And he's like, no, never.
He's like, I can't, you know, and that was the thing.
I was like, I know exactly what that feeling is.
Yeah.
Like I know that exact sentiment because it's like, you know, that's like, you have that
option.
You know, you should consider that other person, but you're so singularly focused on, on achieving
something that you're like, can't do it.
God, yeah, man.
That was fucking insane.
What that guy does.
Yeah.
And that's, but that, and that's what I, I mean when I talk about like this, that magnification
of the human experience, because like, like, especially for me, like I talk with my therapist
about this a lot.
Like when I, once I got diagnosed and I started like seeing a therapist regularly, like I'd
come in and I'd be like, okay, I want to work on this, this and this.
And my therapist was like, that's incredible that you're that self aware that you know,
like these are the things that you struggle with.
And so like, but, but that's one of my magnifications is I'm, I'm constantly, and it's not, it's
it's not self aware, like in like a confidence standpoint, it's like I'm always just like
thinking inwardly is like, you know, what, like what's wrong with like, what can I do
better here?
Like why can't I do this?
Like I'm constantly like trying to rearrange those bricks internally to like, how, how
can I, how can I like operate better?
You know, so, and it was more of that.
It's like, oh, you've already identified your weaknesses.
It's like, yeah, because I know what I'm not good at.
I like, I think about it a lot.
You know?
So how long have you been going to a therapist?
Since I got diagnosed.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I was in the army.
I joined the army after high school.
I was in the army for a couple of years.
And so I get like, I got, I got, I was getting a care through like the VA.
And so once I got like my diagnosis from, or my recommendation from card because, because
they're like a research clinic, like they can't do an official diagnosis.
So they recommend you to a specialist to do your, your official diagnosis.
So they referred me to somebody.
I took that up to the VA, the VA mental health care clinic, like set it up, like set me up
with like the specialists and everything because they don't have an autism specialist.
You know?
So they set me up with it and everything was taken care of.
Like I got very, I was very lucky in that aspect, but like, that's what it finally took
for me to get diagnosed.
Like was I had to find a place that could do it for adults.
Like first I had to have like the, like the interest and like the idea to even think I
was autistic.
Cause if, you know, like, yeah, it wasn't something I'd ever looked into.
Like I'd been diagnosed previously with like ADD, severe anxiety disorder and a major
depressive disorder.
So I was just, I was like, it's just those things messing with my head, you know, because
those like mental health issues can stack up on you, you know, and condense and create
more pressure.
So I just thought it was all that, you know, just jumbled together.
And then a nurse at the VA down in Cape Coral, I was in for, for like an appointment for
something else.
And she just casually like talking to me like doing my blood pressure and stuff was like,
have you ever, have you ever like, like looked into getting like, like finding out if you
have like, if you're on like the autism spectrum and I was like, no, I thought she was just
trying to call me retarded.
Yeah, yeah.
But she was like, no, she's like, my nephew has autism spectrum disorder.
And he has a lot of the same like, like you just remind me of him a lot.
Like you have like, because I was, I was like rocking on the table and stuff, but while
I was sitting waiting for her to come in and stuff.
And she's like, you just like, you just have some similar like physical traits and then
like some of your mannerisms and stuff.
You just remind me a lot of my nephew.
Like that just set off like the buzzer.
You know what I mean?
It's like.
How old are you then?
29.
Okay.
Yeah.
You're in the army at that time?
No, no, no, no.
I was out.
I was out.
I was living in Fort Myers.
I was, um, I was finishing my degree in graphic design and working as a graphic designer.
And but just like hearing that, like I went off on a tangent and started like researching
autism.
And the more I read, the more I was like, who are these people watching me?
You know?
Yeah.
Did you ever think about it before then at all?
Never.
Nope.
Hmm.
No, because like, because like the way autism had always been portrayed in movies, like
I could be more personable than Forest Gump, you know, like I didn't, I didn't seem slow
when people were talking to me, you know, like I wasn't, I couldn't like count cards
or memorize phone books like fucking Rain Man, you know, so it's like, so I'm not autistic
because that's how they portrayed autistic people.
So that was the only idea I had of what autism was, you know, me and then the, like the extreme
side of that being like Leonardo DiCaprio and like what's eating Gilbert Grant just
all drooling.
Yeah.
You know, so I was like, those are the only examples, you know, so you don't think of
it outside of those terms, like, you know, what person watches Rain Man and then goes
and like, like what is autism and then learns everything about it, you know?
So yeah, it was just never something that, that was, that I'd ever even considered and
then that, but that set off the light bulb.
And what's weird is I went to high school with two autistic brothers, like two different
ends of the spectrum.
Like one was like a more severe borderline nonverbal, like very limited like words and
phrases and things like that.
And then the other was he was like overly, not vocal, that's not the right word, but
like overly precise and like his, like his enunciation and like proper sentence structure
and like every word he said sounded like every sentence sounded like it was from a textbook.
You know what I mean?
Like it was like this is a talking dictionary.
And so again, it just never considered that I was either one of those things because,
because exactly my darts didn't land in the same area as theirs did.
Mine were more in that like internalized thought patterns, executive function.
Like I was always like sleeping in and late to, you know, late for stuff and you know,
that kind of thing.
And he was always early, like, you know, 20 minutes before anything, like he's already
there stretching warm, whatever the activity is, like he is fully prepared, 20 minutes
before him, you know.
And so again, like you just don't think of those things until someone finds a way, like
finds a way to frame your point of reference, you know, and she's like, I have a, I have
a nephew and he does this, this and this.
And I, you did this and this and it reminded me of him and I was like, wait, I do do that,
that and that.
And I don't see other people doing those things like, you know, so then you make an appointment
and you, can you go or well, then I start like, I start researching autism, like, you
know, finding websites, finding like any online tests I can do, things like that.
And then from there, I start looking into like, okay, so based on all the stuff I've, I've
gathered now, like, I think I might be autistic.
So now how do I find out for sure, you know.
And so then I found like, I started researching like clinics that could diagnose adults because
everything, most stuff online even is about like kids.
Um, so I was like, what, what about adults?
Like how do, and I eventually found like, you know, the card for at the University of
Florida and my family happened to be from that area, you know, and I was living in Fort
Myers at the time.
So I got in touch with the, the center.
They sent me like a packet of stuff, filled that out, send it to them and then they set
me up, but because it's, it's through the University of Florida, like it's a, it's a
research clinic.
So it was a free, like a free appointment and, and so got it all scheduled.
And then I, I called and told my parents everything that I'd been like, you know, I, like, I think
this might be what's happening, like what I've been dealing with and all this kind of
stuff.
And they're like, well, get up here.
So the rest is history.
The rest is history.
Now, since you got diagnosed, what did, what did they do?
Like obviously you're now talking to a therapist.
Is there, is there anything else that you're doing to cope with it or?
I mean, kind of.
The therapy has been so helpful because like, basically I was able to take all of that, like
that internalized thought process and that like, you know, that hyper, like unhealthy
self-awareness and like basically figure out ways to like, like handle it, you know, like
a, pick a topic or pick like a thing I was struggling with and we're, and talk to my
therapist about like, how can I do this better?
Like what can I, you know, finding like a special, like special alarms and stuff.
Like I said, I struggled with executive function and being able to force myself to get up for
stuff and, you know, things like that.
Like if it's something, if it's something I'm like excited about and something I really
want to do, like that's never a problem, you know, but it's like the, I don't want to do
this, you know, you know, whatever it is.
I don't want to do laundry today before I leave.
Like I'll do it later, you know, like I have like a special alarm on my phone.
So like when my alarm goes off, like I have to like solve math problems, you know, which
I'm not that kind of autistic.
So math's not math problems are hard for me.
So you know, I have to do math problems to get the alarm to turn off.
And then like 90 seconds later, like I have to, like it checks in with me and I have to
like hold down like a button on the screen to prove that I'm still awake and I didn't
go back to sleep after, after turning the alarm off.
Is this some sort of app or something?
Yeah, it's an app.
It's called Alarmy.
So I have that app and then I also have one of the, it's like a Pavlok, like a wrist device
that I set and I set like a backup alarm on it and that alarm, like it's got a thing in
here that actually zaps me.
So it zaps me, so I have to get up, get out of the van and do jumping jacks to get it
to stop zapping.
And what are the purpose of these things, these apps?
To help me wake up, like to help me, like to help me with my executive function.
Like the Pavlok device is just sounds like some sort of a discipline exercise.
Kind of.
Yeah.
Well, that's what Pavlov Pavlok.
Like that's where it comes from.
So it's like that.
Yeah.
So you can literally like, it's literally like a have a positive habit training device.
So like whether it's like quitting smoking or like exercising and things like that, like
whatever it is you're trying to accomplish, you can like set your goals and different
things.
That sounds super interesting.
It's a super cool, like yeah.
When I, like again, my therapist like was telling me about like, like finding like
different apps and alarms and things like that.
And I happened to find that device and I was like, Hey, what about this?
And she's like, you know, like, she's like, I'm not going to recommend something that
zaps you, but if you think it's going to work for you, like, you know, like, you know,
I'm not basically like, I'm not suggesting electroshock therapy or anything here, you
know.
I came up, that was like a solution I found and I just presented it as like, Hey, would
this work for me because I'm interested in trying it, you know.
So it's basically therapy helped me find healthier workarounds and healthier coping mechanisms
and things because basically up until then I'd basically engineered my own devices, but
they were rudimentary devices.
So you know, if you're trying to move water with like an aquifer system versus trying
to move water with like, you know, bamboo shoots, you know, like one's going to work
better than the other.
We had this really smart, one of our like the smartest people I know, this guy, Nathan
Kroc.
He's a, he's a scientist.
He actually, he works up in Tallahassee and he a crazy smart guy and he was telling me
he would like train, try to like do certain things himself to try to enhance his discipline.
He would do things like sleep on the floor for a month, like every night he would sleep
on the floor or for a month he would try to brush his teeth with his left hand, like
weird things like that, just so he would be more disciplined and get things done quicker
and more efficient.
I mean, he treats his brain like, like a supercomputer, like he, like he tries to just, he's always
trying to enhance his brain and his mind.
Well, and that's kind of where I'm going, I'm getting to now, like I said, after that,
that acid trip, you know, experiment.
But that's basically what I tried it for because there's been so much research, there's literally
tons of research about like the positive effect of psychedelics in like dealing with autism
spectrum disorder.
Really?
Yeah.
And so the best way I can explain it was it just, it gave me like an extra set of tools
to be able to sort, organize and focus the things in my brain and basically like reset
some things in the control panel and like reset some parameters for myself, you know,
like increasing my accountability on like, hey, we have to be, we have to be producing,
like we have to be writing more, we have to be, you know, all of these kinds of things.
And you know, like, again, the inmates can't be running the asylum, like I need the warden
to crack down on this, you know.
Right.
I'm getting better at that and I also was like, you know, what other things do I need
to do to be more productive?
I need to start eating healthier because I was, you know, I'm a stand-up comedian.
I'm basically eating garbage every night, like drive-throughs and, you know.
Sounds like you're doing things everybody should be doing, man.
Yeah.
But it literally took me like, like sitting down and strapping myself into a chair and
taking psychedelics to make it happen, you know what I mean?
Like I just couldn't wake up one day and be like, I'm going to do this.
Like I literally had to like build up to it and plan out, like, okay, how are we going
to get us to do this?
Hmm.
When was the first time you took psychedelics?
After I was diagnosed.
I've taken acid twice.
I took acid.
It's more hardcore than mushrooms.
I mean, it's LSD.
So yeah, a little more, I guess, psychedelic than mushrooms.
Like the first time I took it was just the experiment of like, can I, can I, will I be
okay with this?
You know, and it was much more of like the external experience, like seeing the colors
and like the patterns and different, like more of the visuals of psychedelics.
And then the second time I took it, which was the time we were talking about, you know,
conversation with the warden.
And so that time I took it, it was much more of like the internal and like the, you know,
the meditation, you know, like the spiritual, you know, thing like that.
And so for me, it was more or more of like the mental aspects of like, I want to dive
in and actually see if like, you know, if I can access these things that people talk
about with autism and psychedelics.
That was cool.
Yeah.
I had a filmmaker dude on here a couple of months ago who he actually made like a really
popular YouTube documentary called Florida Man.
And he said his dad was going through really severe depression for a while and he eventually
convinced his dad to try acid.
And he said his dad is like a hundred percent cured.
He's like not depressed anymore.
Like they have a better relationship now.
They hang out way more.
And it said it took him like a long time to build his dad up to trying acid to try to
figure out his depression.
Yeah.
It's insane.
It took me a while to build up to it.
I mean, but it was, it took me, I had gotten my medical marijuana card, so I was already
like six months into like medical marijuana before I started being like, okay, this hasn't
done me any harm.
So like what other things could I look into that might help with this?
And there's, like I said, there's just been tons of research about psychedelics and autism.
So, you know, give it a try.
Thanks a lot, government.
Daddy needs medicine.
Well, there's a couple states that made shrooms legal, right?
So I'm supposed to go to Portland in, we were supposed to go last week, but I got rescheduled
because of coronavirus stuff and like theater limits and all that kind of stuff.
In December, I'm going, I'm doing a helium comedy club in Portland with Jay Muse.
So I feature, I feature for Jay Muse from Jay and Silent Bob.
Hell yeah.
So we're going up there and I'm definitely trying psychedelics because it's all legal
there now.
Oh hell yeah, dude.
Is Jay going to do them with you?
Jay is 10 years sober.
Oh yeah.
Oh, that's right.
Is this the guy that smoked pot?
That's right.
Really?
Nope.
Jay also has his caffeine.
It goes harder than the caffeine.
He will drink like four Red Bulls and like, so his Starbucks order is five shots of espresso
with milk on the side.
And then he basically like a little bit of milk into the espresso, gets it to like a
good temperature and then I'll like drink half, little bit more milk, drink the other
half.
And he will do that three times a day.
So we're talking about like 15 shots of espresso, four Red Bulls, but that dude is constantly
going.
Yeah.
So we're talking about Twitch streams, like we'll be all like, we were in at Bananas in
New Jersey.
You ever tried cocaine?
It's probably way more efficient.
Well, I think that was the problem was too efficient.
Yeah.
No, we did the Bananas Comedy Club in Hasbrook Heights a couple of months ago.
And while we were there, he was Twitch streaming like 10 hours a day, all right, like split
into like two five-hour sessions.
Then we'd be at the club for, we had two shows a night, so we were at the club for like another
four hours, like for both shows and stuff.
So we're at 14 hours now for his like work day, right?
Then he still like goes back and he'll either like do an additional Twitch stream or he'll
do like some promo content and stuff like, you know, for his Twitch stream or we were
doing stuff like the next day we had to do stuff at the secret stash, like his and Kevin
Smith's comic book store.
They were doing meet and greets Saturday.
So Saturday, he did like like six hours of meet and greets, 10 hours of Twitch streaming
and four hours of the club.
Like I don't know when he's like, yeah.
So he's just going non-stop.
Wow.
But that's what 15 shots I expressed.
So we'll do that.
What made him want to quit everything?
I think like becoming a dad and like it just, it got to the point where I think it was like
stressing his relationships with Kevin and you know, and I think, and well, I mean this
is a pretty like.
Was he abusing alcohol too?
Or just weed or alcohol and all kinds of drugs?
Okay.
You're doing everything.
Yeah.
And it was, it was at the point like, like it's pretty well documented like him and Kevin
Smith had a whole thing where he's like, if you can get sober, we'll do clerks too.
So he's been sober since clerks too.
Oh, cool.
Yeah.
So.
I never saw that.
Really?
No.
Yeah.
Well, we actually, I saw the first one.
That's the movie that taught.
That's the movie that taught American culture.
You never go ask him out.
What's the one where they're in like, the one scene that I'll never forget is like they're
in there somewhere and there's fucking lasers everywhere and they're like, they're like
climbing over the laser beam.
Jay and Silent Bob strike back.
That's the movie.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's the movie.
Yeah.
That's the movie.
Hmm.
That's cool man.
Yeah.
That's when they break into like the animal facility and free the monkey.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How did you read that?
That's how I intro him.
Yeah.
Okay.
So how I met Jay was, so like I said, I converted the van, right?
And I put together like my own road show and I did, I did a show in Austin, Texas, Colorado
Springs.
I did some open mics in like, in like Nashville and Atlanta and stuff.
And then my buddy, a comedy buddy of mine, he had moved to Kansas City and he like saw
it like I had an open show and I didn't have to go back through Texas because that would
have been the long way to go like, because I was going to Nashville next.
So Kansas City was on the way and I saw he had a showcase show and I was like, hey, I'm
going to be able to make it to Kansas City in time to see your show.
Like you know, let's catch up and hang out.
And he's like, oh, hell yeah.
Awesome.
Like, you know, I'll let everybody know you're coming and then he messaged me back.
He's like, hey, do you want to do a guest spot?
And I was like, sure, yeah.
And then so I looked at the club where that show was at and they had an open mic the night
before, like an outdoor like patio mic because of COVID.
So I went like, I was like, I'm basically instead of sleeping in the van here in Colorado,
I'll just go ahead and drive, you know, today, make it there, do the open mic, sleep in the
parking lot there, then do the show the next day.
So I did the open mic and the club owner was there.
And so I met the club owner and we got to talking and then did the showcase the next
night.
And then after I'd made it home, the club ran a contest to open for J Muse.
And so I messaged him, like I submitted for the contest was like, hey, don't know if you
remember me.
I'm the guy from Florida to Rob's friend, you know, I was like, you know, and submitted
my video clip or whatever.
And he's like, you didn't need to submit a video.
I remember you.
He's like, are you sure you want to come from Florida?
Like all the way from Florida to do like a seven minute spot on a contest that you might
not win.
And I was like, yeah, sure.
And he's like, bring your ass on.
And so I went to do the contest and I figured I was going to lose just because like, I'm
not from there.
Like other people, like I didn't know how they were doing like any voting or anything
like that.
And I was like, if it's like an audience vote, like everybody else is bringing people, you
know, but I just wanted to go because he had already seen me before.
And I was like, even if I don't win, if he sees me again, maybe he'll just book me for
something else.
Right.
Right.
So in my head, I was like, that's how I made it worth it.
I was like, exactly.
But I went and then I won.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
Because they had two comedians judging the contest.
So they did those two judge votes plus audience vote and I won.
Nice.
Yeah.
And so then I came back to open for Jay and because he was there doing a weekend.
And so he was like, Hey, pick a night you can be here and that's the night you'll open
for Jay.
And so I was doing a Thursday night show because I was booked to be in Orlando Saturday night.
So I was like, if I do the Thursday night, I can hit the road.
I can make it to the Tennessee's like state line sleeping.
There's a rest area there that I, from all my trips back and forth to Kansas City at
this point.
And this is where I sleep right before my last stop before Florida, you know?
And it's what the Tennessee, Georgia state line.
There's this amazing like rest area on both sides, like this big, like, I want to say
aquifer, but that's not the right word, but like it's big, like water, like retention
area or whatever.
And there's like an island with mountains and shit.
So it looks like Jurassic Park.
Yeah.
Like a landfill, maybe.
No, but it's beautiful though.
It's like a nature preserve and like water, a water reserve.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, but it's beautiful.
And so I was like, okay, I can do the show in Kansas City with Jay, make it back to drive
through the night to here, sleep there, wake up, make the rest of the drive the next day
and then make it to Orlando, you know, by Saturday and all that kind of stuff.
But the show went so well opening for him that I literally, I have audio of this like
on my TikTok because I record my shows with like my Apple watch.
So I have like my perfect audio right here, like next to my mic and my Apple watch was
still recording.
I went off the stage through the door into the green room and one of my comedy buddies
was who was featuring, he was going up next.
And so, you know, we, you know, do our thing like, hey, good, you know, break a leg, all
that.
Yeah.
And then Jay's man, like road manager is right there and he's like, hey, Jay wants to like
get your information.
Like, are you okay?
Like, are you okay to fly?
And like, come on, like he wants to bring, bring on the road to feature for him.
And then, and so I'm talking to him about all this and then Jay sticks his head out of
the green room and he's like, hey, bro, can you get on planes and shit?
Sick.
Yeah.
And then we have like a conversation.
Yeah.
Just as soon as I heard the voice is like, he's behind me, you know?
Yeah.
And that's cool.
Yeah.
It was fucking awesome.
And so, yeah.
That's amazing.
That's my guy.
So, you record all your shows on your watch?
Yeah.
So, I record my audio with just like the voice memos like for on Apple Watch.
Yeah.
I record my audio here, so because I keep my mic in my left hand, so I get a perfect
audio recording of my show and then I'll sync that with my video.
So it's almost like my camera is like the audience audio and then I have my audio to
put over it.
Wow.
Yeah.
You got good audio.
That's 200 IQ.
Yeah.
That's intense focuses and being all about comedy, I listen to like every comedy podcast
and that's a Brian Redban tip.
Oh, is it really?
Yeah.
Brian Redban was, I think it was on Rogan, but he was telling Rogan that's what he does
and I was like, check, I have an Apple Watch.
I can do that.
Yeah.
Wow.
And so, yeah.
That's incredible.
I never even, you know what?
I never even thought about that with one of those eye watches.
You could just go in and record anything without people knowing about it.
You could do some fucking deceptive ass shit with one of those watches.
Yeah.
Because I keep it for, I keep it on like do not disturb an airplane mode through my recording.
And so once I set it to start recording and put my wrist down, like the screen will not
come back on again until I physically like touch the button and unlock it.
So it stays dark.
So yeah, if you were in a room with other people, like again, depending on like the state
laws of like recording and conversations, but yeah, you could definitely do some like
spy shit.
Jeez.
I never even thought about that, dude.
This guy's got two, one on each wrist.
You Aiden.
You.
No, that's just a fitness tracker and that's a Casio.
Yeah, sure it is.
Just a Casio, bro.
It doesn't record, I swear.
Yeah.
So, huh, Redban, Brian Redban talking about that.
You listen to a lot of podcasts.
I feel like that's a thing with comedians.
They're all, they're all about everything they listen to.
Oh, I like the podcast that where you can learn things about comedy, you know what I
mean?
Like.
But comedians and podcasts, they always go hand in hand.
Oh, yeah.
Well, cause like most comedians were the podcasting pioneers.
So like that's kind of our art form.
You know what I mean?
Like if you were taking an acting class, you were watching the Oscars, you know.
Yeah.
Conversations are hard to have.
Yeah.
But well, not just that, but like.
It's hard to keep a conversation going for a long time and have it be like quick and
have it be concise and staying, you know what I mean?
Like ping ponging off each other.
Yeah.
Well, not just that.
Like you add to that like comfort level.
Like if it's like a strange person, it's like, okay, like I don't know how, like what
I can talk to you about that's going to keep this conversation going versus like if you're
a comic, you know a bunch of other comics and like we talk to each other all the time,
bro.
We're just going to record it.
Like, you know.
If two people are in a room together and they have a conversation and it's not recorded
on a podcast.
Does the conversation happen?
Did it happen?
Well, I mean, it's the same thing with comedy, right?
Like that's why they say like as a comedian, you have to write everything down or like
find a way to record it because if you think of the perfect joke, but nobody hears it and
you never wrote it down or recorded it, did you really think of that joke or not?
No.
Exactly.
I think so.
Exactly.
Because good luck remembering that joke.
Like you think of something funny right before you're falling asleep.
Good luck remembering it the exact same way the next day.
Good fucking luck.
Yeah.
That happens to me all the time.
I'm like, fuck, I gotta remember this in the morning.
I gotta remember this in the morning.
Please.
Please.
Please.
And so, but now like the way I literally have to think about it is like I have a funny
thought.
I'd be like, I better write that down or I'll never get paid for it.
Yeah.
You know.
And so literally it's like.
You just write it.
You just pay check.
You just talk it into your watch.
Yeah.
I do my voice memos.
Like if I'm, if I have my watch on or do it on my watch, I do it in the voice memos
on my phone.
I'll do it in like notes, Google keep, like literally whichever one I can get to the fastest
or like depending on what the idea is, like, you know, like if I just have like a random
thought and I'm like, I don't know what I want to do with this yet.
So I'll just write that in my notes app or something.
Or I'll go into Google keep and start doing a voice recording and like if it's something
like I'm going to work this out out loud, I'll go into Google keep and do a voice recording
in that because it converts it to text as you're speaking it.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Accurate?
Does it fuck it up?
I mean, it fucks it up a little bit, but it's decent, you know?
So I'll do that and then like just break it into like pieces and then I can always go
back and like, okay, what can I do to make this piece funnier?
What can I do to make this piece funnier?
And at least recording it that way, I have a general outline of what I want that bit
to be.
You know?
Right, right.
And then I just go through and like, oh, make this better.
This sucks.
You know?
And so, like I said, for something like that, I'll do it in there.
If it's something like, this idea just hit me, I'm going to rant about it right now because
nothing I'll ever think of after this is going to be as funny as it is in my head right now,
I'll just straight to voice memo the whole thing.
Yeah.
I love doing the voice thing, but I can't do it when I'm laying next to my wife in bed
at like 1 a.m.
I wake her ass up and I'll be fucked.
But what I do is I send myself emails.
If I have a good idea, I'll just email myself.
So when I wake up in the morning, it's the first thing I see when I open my phone.
That's smart.
I like that.
It's kind of primitive, actually.
But it works.
There are other, there are comics that do that.
Like I think Todd Berry, he just writes emails.
Like he free writes and he just does them as emails and sends them to himself and goes
back through them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, for me, I title each email like with the same word at the beginning, like I just
put like idea slash and then I type it.
So that way when I go to my email and I search the word idea, I just have all these emails
I've emailed myself over the years.
Nice.
I like that actually.
I like that a lot.
I think there's other apps that are probably better at that that you can use, but emails
was like the most convenient one, I think of.
No, that's really, I like that.
Yeah.
It's cool.
So when's your next show?
Wednesday night in Atlanta.
Oh, Atlanta.
In Atlanta.
Yeah.
Oh, you really are on the road.
Yeah.
I'm going to Atlanta for Statellite for the World Series of Comedy.
Nice.
So yeah.
I'm on the Wednesday show, doing the wildcard round.
So if I can advance from there.
Is this new like in the past month or two that comedy clubs have been like doing a lot
of shows like this?
Like how, how soon did this open back up like it is now?
Cause I feel like now it's happening more than.
Well now basically like they kind of timed this out to like reopen like as everything
else is reopening.
So most clubs have been, have been either limited capacity or like, I mean, clubs have
been open for a little bit in certain places, but like I said, like we were supposed to
do Portland in like March and it's been rescheduled like four times because Portland just keeps
chit like go back and forth on COVID restrictions and stuff.
So you know, but then like, like Kansas city was open in December, it was limited capacity.
So I think it was like, like 125, you know, in a 400 seat room.
So that like, you know, people had to buy like instead of buying individual tickets,
you had to buy tables, you know, and things like that.
Those shows ended up being awesome, you know, and then like, uh, but then like Florida,
like we haven't given a shit.
Florida's pretty wide open.
Yeah, we stopped caring in July, bro.
Like, yeah, so like the, I think like most of the shows we've done here are like just
fully sold out, you know, um, and some places like they tried to adapt like, uh, one club
had like, like raised like, it was like a hat, like a semi circle room and like the front
row was like floor level.
And then the next row behind them was like elevated like 12 inches, you know, and then
the one behind them was picked up.
So they just put like plexiglass, like the whole length of like the rail between each
row.
So they just separated people like hockey stadiums, you know, real creative.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember we went to side splitters probably in like July and it was completely loaded
packed to the gills, people shoulder to shoulder, eating and drinking, fucking everything.
Florida.
Yeah, bro.
Florida.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Florida does not.
Like literally wild boys.
We were in Ebor.
When were we in Ebor with Mike?
Oh, I don't know.
Bachelors.
Four or five months ago.
Yeah.
It was, it was the most insane experience.
We were in this nightclub for my friend, my buddy's a bachelor party and it was fucking,
we were crammed into this little ass nightclub like sardines.
Dead mid COVID.
Every mid.
Yeah.
I think it was before July, maybe.
It was towards the end of the year.
Was it?
Because the wedding was like what August or something.
I remember standing in there and it took us, so in this little nightclub from like, from
where I am, maybe to like that door right there to the bathroom and it took us probably
15 minutes to get that far to get through all the people and I'm like, if we don't,
if we haven't had COVID yet, we're definitely going to have.
It was the breeding grounds for it.
Oh, dude.
It was fucking disgusting.
We went to Parks and Rec.
Oh, yeah.
We went there like two weeks ago and that place was fucking lit.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
They're jammed.
Just everybody nut to butt on the dance floor, you know, like people play in pool, like strangers
that, like complete strangers just full on licking each other in the face, like, yeah, bro,
like we don't give a shit.
Like the bush rider.
Yeah.
Like Luke the Bushwacker.
Yeah.
I saw you and Jay, me and Mike not too long ago and that's where we found you and it was
packed there.
I mean, it was jam packed there.
We went to Tampa not too long ago.
It was packed.
Yeah.
That was down in, you guys saw me down in Naples.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fucking Naples doesn't believe in COVID.
Come on.
I mean, it was packed.
Yeah.
They're like what virus?
There's the virus.
Yeah.
But Florida actually did pretty good, right?
With their numbers, with their like cases and their deaths and everything, didn't they?
We sucked at the beginning because we, you know, but then like, I think, honestly, I
think that we reached a certain level of herd immunity at a certain point and that's
when our cases started dropping because again, strangers have been out at clubs since July
licking each other in the face, bro.
Right.
You know.
We're all immune.
Yeah.
Because Florida is the vaccine.
Yeah.
Dude, as soon as outdoor open mics started back up, comics, we were full on kissing each
other on the mouth, bro, you know, like sharing microphones and yeah.
Was Dave Chappelle the first one to do the outdoor comedy shows during COVID?
It's the first one I saw.
He was doing it in Ohio, right?
There were a couple different people that kind of like pioneered some things like that.
Like he was doing like the outdoor shows with like the big like awnings and like, because
it was like a wedding venue kind of thing.
And then like Burt was doing, he kept his tour going and was doing like drive-in shows
you know.
And then like in New York, a couple of people, they were doing like riverfront and rooftop
shows and things like that, like end drive-in shows and stuff.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Everyone, everywhere kind of had their own like little pioneers of like, you know, like
this is what we're going to try and like figuring out different things and I mean.
Do you like it when there's a big crowd versus a smaller crowd or do you, do you have any
like preference of crowd size?
I know some people like to have like just stadiums and some people just like to have
small like 70 people.
I haven't done a stadium.
I think the biggest crowd I've done so far was like 450.
Okay.
That's pretty big.
450 is big and it's a lot of fun.
I think, I think like 250, 300 is like the perfect number, you know what I mean?
Because in a room that size, like if you can get like 300 people, if you can get like
20% of the room to laugh at something, that's, that, yeah, it's going to create a wave, you
know what I mean?
And I like like, I have the kind, I have jokes that I like, I like to sit in the silence
sometimes, like I'll say a line and then just sit and wait for like it to start traveling
because it's one of those things like somebody's going to giggle and somebody's going to giggle,
that giggle's going to make somebody laugh, that laugh is going to make somebody else laugh
and then by like, like eight seconds later, the whole room is laughing, you know?
And I dig following that trajectory, you know?
So and that's the perfect size room for it.
And then it's also like when you hit like the big, like those belly laugh lines, man,
and you have 300 people just full on laughing from their chest and they can't stop.
It's going to feel awesome.
Yeah.
It's like directing of like a violent orchestra kind of because you're like, I like, I, there
are going to be moments where I want to hit that, like the, the heavy notes and I'm literally
forcing air out of all of you, you know?
Yeah.
But it's fun.
Oh, yeah.
I fucking love it.
Do you ever roast anyone in the crowd?
Oh, I, I do a lot of like the content I have online is like crowd work stuff and, and things
like that.
And I've done actual like roasts, roasts are fun.
Any roast battles?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like we did a, in Gainesville, we did, we did like a, like a Festivus like Christmas
roast, like, and, you know, and so we do, did it like, like a Comedy Central roast, like
a whole panel.
Okay.
Everybody had a turn to roast everybody else.
Um, I've done two of those.
We did one for like a Christmas one and then we did one for a stripper's birthday.
Nice.
Stripper's birthday.
Yeah.
Cause she's, she's a, an open mic.
And, you know, so.
And she's a stripper, a comedian?
Yes.
That's awesome.
She was a, yeah.
Her, her regular job was stripper and then her, uh, her passion.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Her hobby was stand up.
Awesome.
The stripper, the strip club pays the bills.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And she did a roast at her for her birthday and that was like, honestly, that was the
funnest one because I wasn't even supposed to be on it.
Like I didn't, I didn't know they were doing it.
I just came to, I was going to do some new stuff at the open mic and they were doing
the roast after the open mic.
And so I showed up and, uh, Sarah, the, the girls was like, Hey, like are you doing the
roast?
And it was like, I didn't know there was a roast.
So I didn't have a chance to prepare for everybody.
And then, uh, her boyfriend and like the, like the lady he had hired to like do her
birthday cake showed up with the cake and I got to like see this whole exchange and
I was like, no, I'm doing it.
I'm talking about this, but I'm, yeah, but I'm doing the roast.
So then I got a list of everybody on the roast and like I had like, uh, like half hour of
open mic time to basically write jokes for like seven people and, uh, and it ended up
being the most fun.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
So you, uh, how often do you like come up with stuff when you're, when you're doing
a set, a live set?
Like how often do you just like come up with stuff, like write that in there that day and
like just think of something on the fly versus stuff that you've been writing and curating
over a long period of time.
So most of the stuff, like if I think about it, um, like that day, I won't do it on like
a booked show.
Like I'll, I'll, I'll be like, okay, I'm going to go to this, like this open mic tomorrow
to try this thing.
Or like depending on the show, if it's something, like I said, if it's one of those things that
like hits me and I'm like, I know this is going to work because that's the, the cool
thing is like, I've been doing it long enough now and I've gotten to, to a level where like
I'll think of something and the, like as soon as I think of it, I was like, that's going
to work exactly the way I thought it first try, you know, like, and with like 89% confidence,
you know what I mean?
And I'll take a risk on 89% and I'll like, I can squeeze that like in a, in a 30 minute
set or a 25 or 20 minute set, be like, okay, I'll have, I'll have like 12 minutes of, of
good material.
I can take a risk at the, at the 12 minute mark, get this joke out, see how it lands.
And then if it doesn't land, I'll swap these two things around and come back with like
a knockout.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So.
Cause it could be something, it could be like a really good joke or like some really good
material, but if the timing is off by like a second or two seconds or whatever.
If it's not the right room for that joke, you know what I mean?
There's all kinds of things that can like, so typically I won't like throw a joke out
or make any big adjustments to it until I've done it, you know, a handful of times at least
and then be like, okay, this hasn't worked six times in a row.
So this line needs to change, but this part worked, you know, 40% of the time.
So maybe I just need to tinker with this line a little bit.
Right.
Right.
I don't know how.
What's his name was telling us?
I forget who.
I think it was, uh, David Lucas was telling us that, uh, at the, uh, the comedy club on
Hollywood Boulevard, what's it called?
The comedy store.
Yeah.
He was saying how like on Monday and Tuesday nights, just all these like fucking big shot
comedians would just come in randomly with no notice and just work, try to work on new
shit that they're, that they've written.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
Like Rogan talks about that all the time, like the Tuesday night lineups at the store
used to be killers cause it would be like, it would be like Delia and Jezel neck and
Whitney Cummings and Rogan and Chapelle and Burr all doing 15 minutes back to back to
back.
You know, and then why wouldn't you would think that the, that would be like the night
everyone wants to go.
You know what I mean?
It is.
So those are the most packed nights at the comedy stores.
Those nights and then the weekends, like whenever they have the weekends, because on the weekends
they'll have like three of those people all headlining in different rooms, you know,
So it'll be more those specific fans versus like comedy fans in general.
You know what I mean?
Like like on a Tuesday night, it's not like all Joe Rogan fans coming to see Joe Rogan
do 15 minutes, like they're going to want to see his hour, but they're like, you know,
the people that like listen to the podcast and stuff and they like, are they just like
comedy in general?
Or they're like, I've watched all six of these guys specials.
Like I want to see what they're working on.
It's more of those people on like a Tuesday night at the cellar.
So it's more of like a regular mic in that it's a mixed crowd.
But do you think they market it on the Tuesday nights and the Monday nights?
You think they randomly pop in?
No, no, no.
A lot of them are marketed, but then you still have guys that don't like Chris Rock might
pop in.
Right.
Dave Chappelle might not be on the lineup, but if he shows up, they're going to put him
on.
He's Dave Chappelle.
Yeah.
I thought it was really cool, the fact that they would just show up unannounced, you know
what I mean?
Like you could be there.
A lot of guys do.
You could be there for fucking whoever, Bill Burr, and then Dave Chappelle just shows
up.
Yeah.
And they do that a lot.
That's what happened down here in Florida.
So Ron White was booked at Off the Hook in Naples, but it'd been so long since he'd
been doing comedy that he just brought his bus to Florida and was popping in and doing
different rooms and stuff like that at different clubs, Joe List was at sidesplitters, right?
And Ron White just showed up and was like, hey, Joe, do you mind if I do like 15, 20
minutes?
And he's like, yeah, you're Ron fucking White, you know what I mean?
So that night, the people that bought tickets to see Joe List got to see special guest Ron
fucking White.
Right.
That's so awesome.
Yeah.
And so he was doing that and then a bunch of like private, like hard rock gigs, you know,
and stuff for his tequila brand and all that kind of stuff and just sharpening the iron
before his booked shows.
And then when I got to see him in Naples, he was fucking razor sharp.
And then the last night he was there, because that club where you guys saw me that weekend
went so great, like the club owner likes me a lot.
And I'd been there to see Ron White.
And so I'd seen him just a couple, like two days before.
And so he called me and he's like, hey, so Ron White has a closer.
So Ron White finishes his set and the show's not over.
They bring on a closer to come on and do additional time while the club drops checks and stuff
like that.
Like the club doesn't drop the checks at the tables until Ron White's done.
Done, yeah.
So he's like, hey, the closer is only booked for three of his four days here.
Do you want to close these shows for Ron White?
And I was like, oh, you want me to follow Ron White?
Fuck you.
Yeah, I'll do it.
Yeah, you can't turn that down.
And so, but I was terrified because I was like, but that was my thought.
I was like, this is what it would be like if I go to the comedy store and get on a Tuesday
night is like, I'm going to have to follow some sort of killer legend, you know.
So I was like, this is the test, right?
And so I was like worried because like in comedy, like if somebody before you absolutely
kills like it, you know, you have to match that.
And if you can't match that, you're in a hole right out of the game, you know, and sometimes
depending on who it is, you're just in a whole period.
You know what I mean?
Like especially in that situation, like I'm there doing that like during the check drop
like they're they in their head, they've already seen the guy they paid money to see.
You know, let's fucking sign this check for this to write a minimum bullshit and let's
get the fuck out of here.
So so I was like in my head, I was like, I've got to dig out of two holes.
So if I can dig out of two holes and do this, like that means I can do this.
Yeah.
You know.
And no hole.
Hell yeah.
No hole.
Smooth as butter, just right into material and killed it.
Wow.
Yeah.
Like so norm basically like normally doing that check drop spot, like I just do material
until everybody leaves.
Like everyone's checks are done.
Most people like once their checks are done, they might stay for another minute or two,
but then their table gets up and leaves.
So I'm basically like clearing the room.
Yeah.
You know, but that first show I was doing 15.
I was supposed to do, yeah, he's like, he's like basically do 15.
And at one point I like I was looking around and all of the servers were done and just
standing around the room and I was like, all right.
So I just wrapped it up right there.
I like stopped two minutes short because everyone was just still in their seats like nobody's
leaving.
Nobody had left.
Yeah.
So yeah.
And so, but it went so well like the second show that he was like, dude, do 25.
Like we don't have another show to do after this.
So just fucking go.
Right.
So, and I did it twice, you know, it seems like such a grind to do, especially if that's
your main source of income.
Oh yeah.
Like that's got to be fucking one of the most difficult things to do when you have nothing
else.
I mean, I understand it makes so much sense if you already have money and you're comfortable
and you're like, I want to, I mean, that's what happens to most people when they make
a lot of money or they make it.
And there's like, I want to switch it up.
I want to go try this because it's not, you're not dependent on that to make money.
You're just doing it because you strictly enjoy it.
But that's why those people, you don't hear about those people.
Like almost no, there's very few famous comedians that like come for money because you, because
you have the money, you have the security, you never take it serious.
Like it's a hobby to you.
You know what I mean?
Versus the people that are like, look, I don't have anything else I'm looking forward to.
You know what I mean?
Like I don't have a career.
I have a job.
Right.
You know, or, you know, I'm a student or like I've had a bunch of dead end jobs and none
of them went anywhere.
Like this is the thing I like.
Like I'm going to, I want this to be my career.
And you know, the people that they're like, this is what I'm going to use to feed myself.
Those are the people because they, they instill that drive in themselves, right?
Right.
You know?
Yeah.
Like literally my success in comedy is now necessary for my survival.
Right.
You know?
So I have to, I have to, you know, keep my focus on that and I have to keep working and
I have to keep pushing and I have to keep going.
I don't have a choice and I wouldn't have it any other way.
Yeah.
Right.
Like I had a bunch of different fucking jobs and they all eventually I burnt out from all
of them.
This is the first thing I've had where it's like one, it's mine.
Like nobody can fire me from it and nobody can tell me, you know, as long as I'm good
at doing it, I can do it for as long as I want.
You know what I mean?
Hell yeah.
And so I'm master of my own destiny now and literally like I try, I drive around in a
van wherever I decide I'm like, I'm going to go here.
Like I just went down to Fort Myers for the weekend to hang out at the club there because
my buddy was featuring and I was like, I'm going to go watch him feature.
You know?
I'm just sleeping in the party lot.
Yeah.
You know?
It's nice.
It's very free.
Exactly.
And there's also like the mental benefit of like every day I wake up, I have something
to do.
I have like, okay, I'm going here.
You know?
Like it's literally like you can feel your momentum because I'm literally moving, you
know?
Yeah.
You're on a mission.
Like a shark.
Like I can't stop swimming.
Yeah.
The hardest part for most people is marrying the talent with the discipline because that's
why you say the most creative people in the world are dining, are servers or they're waiting
tables because they never found the discipline and they never were able to tie that lasso
around their creativity or around the muse as some people like to call it.
Yeah.
And I struggle with that sometimes.
But I also like when I'm struggling with that, I'm like, okay, what muscle can I build
up to make it easier to get around this?
Like what muscle can I build up so I can wrestle with this a little bit better?
You know what I mean?
So when I'm struggling with that, like I'll go to an open mic and just say what I'm thinking.
And literally just I'm going to talk out loud until I find something funny and this is what
we're doing.
Like, and now like I've created that artificial pressure.
You know what I mean?
Like all of these people can't just watch me eat shit for five minutes.
I got to come up with something and basically forcing myself to respond.
You know, like once you're on stage, like you can't procrastinate anymore, it's time
to work.
You're there.
Yeah.
100%.
It's got to be very therapeutic too.
A little bit.
Yeah.
Well, it's just cool because like, like I said, I was so bad at like communicating with people
and then like now I've found this way to communicate with a large group of people.
And I just, I figured out like my method of communication that lets me relate to people.
You know what I mean?
So at this point, like I literally need it because this is how I interact with society.
Yeah.
Like this is my socialization and I have to have socialization.
Every human being does like even the most like isolated, like, you know, introverted
person needs human interaction and now I have it.
You know?
I'm working on a podcast too.
I'm working on a podcast.
You're the only person in the world who doesn't have a podcast.
I know.
I know.
So I started a podcast early on, but it was during COVID and it was so hard to get guests
and like I said, one of the things like I'm better in person in the room because I can
read body language.
I can make eye contact.
I can do those things and you know, versus like a zoom.
I hate this.
Yeah.
So, so it just got so hard booking guests that I was like, well, I just can't do this
right now.
You know?
I was in the van.
I was moving around so much that I was like, well, it's hard to book guests for this.
So, but not, and my current van is so small, I just didn't have a place to record like
a solo, you know, but now with the new van, I'm literally setting up like the podcast
studio in it.
And you know, wherever I'm at, like if I'm at a mic, like, hey, who wants to come do
the podcast?
Yeah.
Now I just have to like lure strangers into my van, but there's some candy in the van.
The solo stuff is crazy.
People that are able to sit in front of a microphone and just talk about shit and ramble,
that is some serious fucking talent.
But that's the same thing I've been doing in my voicemails.
You know what I mean?
And that was the thing I realized, like I've already kind of been doing this.
And then like with all of like the software, like I have the Adobe suite, right?
For like editing and stuff.
And so I'm like, I can use like the rolling record and you know, like think about something,
go off on it a little bit, stop.
And then like right where I left off at, start recording again, like my next thought
or idea or expand on it.
And it's all just one, because I can roll that recording and keep like stop and go whenever
I want.
And I was like, that's the way to do it and just come up with like 15, you know, it doesn't
have to be long, like 15 minutes of that.
Just do like a, like a rant or a solo and you know, just pick something and go.
My best person that my favorite ranter right now is that guy, Tim Dillon.
Oh, I love Tim Dillon.
He's so fucking funny, dude.
He just sits there by himself and just talks.
I've never found someone more entertaining than just sit there by himself and talk.
Well, that's the thing.
That's part of why I stopped doing the podcast because I couldn't get guests.
And I, again, talking about like unhealthy coping and like figuring out like how to,
you know, when I was a kid, I always thought there was just something wrong with my brain.
You know, like my parents didn't know I was autistic because I was smart.
So they just thought I was like a nerd.
You know what I mean?
They're like, he's just nerdy.
So they put me in like every sport and club and group and stuff like that to force like
socialization.
So that's how I learned to socialize was I was like, you got to do it.
Like, you know, throw your kid in the water, they got to learn to swim, you know.
And so I learned my coping mechanisms with interaction and stuff like that.
But the other part of that was like, I realized at a certain point in life was like, you can't
just talk out loud to yourself.
People will think you're weird.
So that was always a part of my brain was like, you can't talk out loud to yourself.
People are going to know something's wrong with you.
And now that I'm like doing comedy, I'm like, fuck, I have to talk out loud to myself.
You've been telling yourself the whole time or I'm going to start.
Yeah.
Did your parents bring you around a lot of other kids when you were when you were young?
Oh, yeah.
My parents, both coached little league sports.
Oh, wow.
I had coached baseball and football and my mom coached cheerleading and softball and
my mom was like, treasurer of like our small town youth league.
So they weren't like hermits, like hoarding you.
No.
No, that's what I'm saying.
Like they made sure we I got socialized.
Like I said, they didn't know it was autism, but they just knew, you know, I was an intelligent
kid.
So they just thought I was awkward because I was like a nerd, you know what I mean?
Like this is going to be a real like pocket protector type of kid and we got to get bullied.
Like we got to teach them how to talk to kids.
Teach them a sport or a skill or something, you know.
And so I just I just learned by exposure, like overexposure, you know, sink or swim.
Yeah, but I bet that does happen to a lot of people who have like parents who don't
let them out of the house, parents who are lazy, you know what I mean, who don't try
to socialize their kids or mix them in other environments that kids like that could grow
up fucked up.
Have you ever seen that soft white underbelly guy, Mark Lada?
He's a channel called soft white underbelly where he actually lives in downtown LA and
he has a studio right on Skid Row and he interviews all the homeless people, all the crack heads,
all the hookers, all the gang members.
And he's done probably a few thousand videos already, a few thousand interviews of people.
That sounds fucking cool.
Yeah, it's insane.
And he said like the number one common denominator with all those people is their parents fucked
them up when they were young.
Just like lazy parents or parents who were just already addict, they just accidentally
had kids and they were like, fuck, now this is a burden I have to deal with.
Yeah.
Well, and also just think about how many people develop mental health issues, not even because
of purposefully or intentionally bad parenting or like think about the kids that messed up
because their parents were just trying their best, but they just didn't know how much parenting
techniques and things like that and child psychology has changed and all the things
we know about like, you know, spankings now cause these kinds of like mental health things,
like just all of the stuff our parents didn't know and like they were doing the best they
could.
You know what I mean?
So like how do you fault someone for doing the best they could with the with the information
they had at the time?
Yeah, but I don't think that's the issue.
No, no, I'm not and I'm not saying it is I definitely they're definitely parents that
were just like neglectful, you know, like irresponsible, you know, absentee, like all
of those kinds of things, not to mention like abusive, violent, like all of those kinds
of things definitely fuck you up.
But then all, but that's what I'm saying, like there's also that marginalized group
of mental health issues that it's not that their parents were any of those things, it's
just that they didn't have the skills necessary to overcome those things, right?
You know what I mean?
Like think about like, and again, this like people who come from like poor and like historically
impoverished places like the that that triangle in Florida, you know what I mean?
Like think about the people who grew up out there with like, you know, parents who it's
not that they are trying to be absentee, but your dad's having to work 95 hours a week
and your mom has an underlying mental health issue that nobody knows about because you
live in a place where you can't afford mental health services, right?
Yeah, you know, think about all of those people is a huge thing too, right?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, money.
That's the whole, you know, that's the whole thing is like money is the primary
like hindrance to most health care, not even just specifically mental health care, mental
health care is already hard enough on its own to access just because it's so limited
and there's such a stigma around it.
You know, in Denmark, they will, when you have a baby, they will pay you.
They will pay you to have a babysitter for like the first five or six years.
They'll also issue stipends to take like parenting courses and things like that, right?
Which is crazy.
But isn't that the way it should be?
It shouldn't be crazy.
You know what I mean?
I have to get a license to go on the road and drive because I could drastically change
the course of someone's life.
Why do I not also have to have a license to raise two people and drastically impact the
course of their lives?
Yeah.
Yeah, you should.
Yeah.
Yeah, I totally agree with that.
But it works in Denmark.
I fucking, I mean, Denmark's also, it's also a very small country, so much different than
us.
Yeah.
And I think that's the bigger thing is like, when you have a smaller population, it's easier
to pick up on outliers than when you have a large, massive population because you have
to worry so much about that cluster.
You know what I mean?
Like your outliers can't be your priority because by definition, you have to worry about the
majority.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, having a, I mean, to say that people would have to get a license to have kids,
that's kind of crazy, huh?
That's a crazy idea.
Not a license, but like, shouldn't there be some sort of requirements?
Take some classes or something.
Like not saying a license, but like, if you're going to have a baby, you have to complete
these things.
You know what I mean?
Like you have to fill out all the paperwork at the hospital.
You know?
You have to.
You have to pay the bill.
You at least, like, and I'm not saying like there has to be a test, but at least like
some sort of like, hey, I've completed the course materials, you know?
Like I have to, a CNA in Florida, you know?
A nursing assistant whose primary job is like patient hygiene and things like that.
Like to literally clean clean people and keep them hygienic, you have to complete like a
certificate course.
But you don't have to complete that same course when they hand you a new one.
Right, yeah.
Like you're telling me I have to complete a course to take care of like the oldest
beater on the lot, but a brand new one?
You'll just hand me with no questions asked.
Yeah, it's crazy.
Yeah, but when, I mean, when it comes to like kids though, it's weird because it's like
people's right to fucking have kids.
You know what I mean?
If they refuse to do all that stuff, they refuse to be conscientious or if they refuse
to be responsible, I mean, you can't really like...
But we do it now.
Child protective services get called when parents like prove to be neglectful and people
in the court and the government take people's children away from them.
So why is it not okay to install a preventative measure for that?
Why is it not okay to install another set of checks and balances to limit that?
Like if we're talking about like protecting kids and that's what everyone talks about
as such a priority, why are we not protecting them from the start?
Yeah, there needs to be more money that goes towards that kind of stuff.
That's what I'm saying.
Even if it's not like a mandatory when you get to have a kid, even if it becomes like
make it mandatory high school education, make early child education, child development
and things like that, like make that a core curriculum part for schools.
Because think about how high the teen pregnancy rate is.
I'm sure Florida is just very high.
Yeah, Florida is just gonna be off the charts.
Something like 38% of high school graduates have a baby within the first year of graduating
high school, so why are we not teaching them that then?
Why are we not updating what home economics is?
I vote you for mayor.
Yeah, you'd be a great mayor.
I don't know about that.
I don't know if I can handle it.
I don't think anyone wants a mayor taking drugs.
I vote you for the warden.
Yeah, I think they do.
Like look guys, I'm still trying to figure out like the budget for the winter parade.
So I'm gonna lock myself in the office for three days, take some LSD and I'll have it
fixed by Monday.
Everybody good?
Hang tight.
Yeah, everybody hang tight.
What's his name?
Isn't he like trying to run for governor, the Morgan and Morgan lawyer?
I'm sure.
The guy, he's like the biggest weed advocate in the state, the Morgan and Morgan guy.
He's in Orlando.
You know him, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
John Morgan.
Yeah, I mean if you come to Florida, you've heard it.
Yeah.
Offices in Jacksonville or Orlando, Tampa.
Yeah, yeah.
If you've seen a city bus drove by, you know Morgan and Morgan.
Yeah, homeless people know who Morgan and Morgan are.
People with no internet know Morgan and Morgan.
That's a fact.
Homeless people have no idea who Adam Driver is, but Morgan and Morgan.
Yeah.
You remember Ask Gary?
I wonder what ever happened to that guy.
1-800-AX-GARY.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
1-800-AX-GARY.
They used to sponsor the Ray Stadium.
Yeah.
Used to be the Ask Gary Stadium.
I remember they'd always be on, he'd always be on, every time I'd listen to Bubba, it'd
be on, you know, every ad break.
There was like four Ask Gary commercials in a row, always on the radio.
And that dude was balling.
He had like a mansion in the Bahamas.
They got run over by 411 Payne and their jingles.
I think my favorite jingle is the cars for kids, just because it makes no sense.
How does that one go?
It's like 1-800-777 cars for kids.
Yeah.
I haven't heard that one.
Oh, yeah.
It's on the radio.
I've heard that recently for sure.
Really?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't have the radio.
Yeah.
I don't listen to radio anymore.
So what's next for you?
What's next on this journey with the van?
You're gonna upgrade the van?
You're gonna buy a house?
What are you gonna do?
No, so I started a GoFundMe.
So my van, like I said, shitbox.
And as a shitbox, so it has leaks in the roof.
You know, like I got it converted and started driving and stuff and then found out there
were leaks in the roof like where that fiberglass topper is and stuff.
And I've tried patching it a couple of times and the leak always comes back.
So I was here in Tampa a couple of weeks ago.
Remember when we had like, there was like four days straight of like torrential rain
pour?
Yeah.
So I was here in town at that point in time and like I was getting ready to go to sleep.
The rain had started.
I was almost asleep and then I like my wet, my legs were wet and I was like, yeah.
So in the middle of this rainstorm, I have to like go to Lowe's, get a tarp and a bunch
of those little straps and then like try and strap it down over the roof in the middle
of this downpour.
I get completely soaked through the bone.
And then I get back in the van after the tarp is done and everything like that.
And then I'm like, I'm trying to get out of the wet clothes.
I soaked everything.
I was like, when a golden retriever just like shakes itself on the carpet, you know?
So everything soaked and I just got so pissed.
I was like, that's it.
I started to go fund me and like just wrote it all out and posted it like more just out
of frustration than anything.
And then like I woke up the next day to like $3,000 in donations.
What?
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
So I set the goal is like 7,500 because I was like, look, like I love this van, but
like it's got all of these problems.
Plus it's just, it's such a small van.
You know what I mean?
Like I need something bigger and more reliable and you know, all of this kind of stuff.
And just the response has been amazing.
So far it's, we were over $5,000 towards our goal.
Yeah.
So we actually, it's gotten big enough now that actually I bought a van.
I bought a 1994 to Conaline like the fact, the Falcon camper van.
So it's got like the big topper on it with the two like big bubble windows over the cab.
Oh hell yeah.
Like 21 and a half feet long.
Nice.
It's got like a, like a bathroom and like a sink.
Yeah.
Full, full deal.
The works.
Um, but, uh, I bought it from a guy I had like gone to high school where there was like
his grandpa's and had been sitting since his grandpa passed away.
But the engine wasn't seized up and it's so it's just needed like tires and brakes and
TLC.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So we bought it.
Like, so it's there now and they're still going through everything and calculating everything
up.
So we're basically trying to raise the money to make sure that the van is going to be
fully operational, functional, everything like that.
And uh, give me enough to, to do some like updating and, and then, you know, things for
the inside and really make it like a, like the, the van.
You know what I mean?
Right.
Right.
That's super cool.
That's amazing.
Cause that was the thing.
Like I converted this, this one basically just out of desperation.
You know what I mean?
Like this was the Hail Mary move and it was also more of like the experiment.
Like I'm going to do this, get out on the road and see if this is a lifestyle I can
adapt to.
Right.
Right.
And then I got out on the fucking road and like, dude, there's just something in your
spirit that like does like, so my first trip, I, I, uh, I had a show in like St. Augustine.
And then from that show, I left and started heading towards Austin.
So I drove into like three 30 in the morning, stopped on itin, like right at the Florida
state line, like just literally found like, um, on itin, like all of those big wooded
areas in the middle of itin, um, I found one of those, like the dirt road pull-throughs
that weren't like the official ones and it had like a little clearing off to the side.
So I pulled in there and up into the clearing and then that's where I slept like my first
night on the road.
And then, um, leaving Austin, going to Colorado Springs, like you just basically from Austin,
you just go straight north through Texas.
And then you like, when you get up to the state line, you kind of like go into New Mexico
and then up into Colorado.
But all of that is in the mountains.
So and because of the way my schedule is all jacked up at the time, I was driving at night.
So I come across the state line and into the mountains as the sun's coming up over the
mountains, you know, like into Colorado and driving up and down these mountains, um, just
like, just the sheer beauty of it.
You know, like, I'm not like a pussy or anything, but I called my sister like in tears, I was
like, it's fucking beautiful here, you know, like it just does something spiritually, like
just being out and like seeing that and just that feeling of, like I said, that feeling
of like momentum, like I can feel we're doing something, you know, it just fills that like
sense of adventure in your soul.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
For sure.
That's super cool.
What was that?
Someone was showing me, was it you who was showing me?
Yeah.
I was on a fan page the other day where people had these vans and they like decked them out
and like teak with these badass floors, like these surf vans where you could sleep, you
could eat.
Was that you?
Show me that?
Yeah.
What was it called?
Boho vans.
Boho vans.
Yeah.
And that's kind of like where I think I'm going to go with this, like when I start redoing
the inside, because like there was spots where like one of the, like the pop top windows
was leaking.
So I know I'm going to have to tear that out and redo it.
So I'm going to do like either like a, like a nice wood or like a, like a bead board roof
or something like that and give it kind of like a Florida, like a beachy vibe.
You know, like a, like a beach cabin on wheels or something.
You know, and I'm going to turn, like I said, the captain's chairs and stuff in the front.
I'll have a table so I can set up like an actual podcasting studio in the van.
Aiden, pull up some of those Boho vans on the screen.
Those are so sick.
Cause we, we like, when we were young, we always used to just travel back and forth between
here and the East coast to go surfing.
And our friend had a, this, what kind of van did Luke have?
Astro van.
Yeah.
And we would all just pile in the back and just sit on the floor and fucking.
So that's basically what my van is.
My van is the GMC version of the Astro van, but it's the short, the short, like passenger
version, not the long cargo version.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those are the Boho vans.
Yeah.
Those things are so sick, dude.
Got a lot of money though.
Can you throw up a, like a 19 Ford Falcon camper van?
He's got to pull it off back onto his little screen and do it.
Just in case some porn.
Is that what you have now?
Falcon van?
That's the new one that we, that I bought.
That's at the, that's at the shop now.
And how much was it again?
7,000?
No, no, no.
That's what it is.
No, no, no, no, no.
That thing is sick.
No.
Do a 90.
1990.
Yeah.
70s.
Okay.
See the tan one to the right, the tan one.
Yeah.
Tan blue.
I basically that one.
Yeah.
Basically exactly like that.
Man.
That's sick.
That is dope.
Yeah.
And you sleep up top above the driver seat.
So there's, there's a bed up there, but I'm probably going to convert that into like
stuff, all the, like audio stuff for the podcast, like that's where all my equipment
will be.
And then the back is like a, like a dinette that folds down into a queen size bed.
So I'll just keep the back as like the bed.
Sick.
Yeah.
That's super sick.
Probably not very good on gas though.
Um, I mean, not great.
That is the one downside.
My van has been great on gas because it's like a V six.
It's a manual.
My current van's a manual.
Is it really?
And that fifth gear on that is like a cruising gear.
So I get it on like the interstate, put it in fifth gear and it's almost like, so like
turning it into a four cylinder dude, like we, yeah, all ass.
But that's like a V eight with like dual gas tanks.
Yeah.
But like I said, when I remod, when I remodel it, I'm going to take a lot of the weight
out of it.
So hopefully that helps with the gas.
Definitely.
Well, you know, have you ever had anyone fuck with you when you're like sleeping over
in like a weird parking lot?
All the time.
What's the, what's the weirdest thing that's happened to you?
Um, so I, I sleep in like weird places, you know, like I'll sleep like in like a Walmart
parking lots, Kohl's parking lots, Bass Pro shops, rest areas, truck stops, like a big
fan of pilot truck stops, you know, especially now cause like Walmart's and places like that
are closed at night now.
They're not 24 hours anymore.
So if I have to take a shit, so my current van does not have a bathroom.
Yeah.
They got showers, everything.
Yeah.
So over here, I got my planet fitness membership, so I normally shower at the gym, you know.
Are they 24 hours planet fitness?
No.
Okay.
Um, not currently.
Um, so most like during normal, everything they were, so, um, but yeah, so shower at the
planet fitness or truck stops, truck stops are 24 hours.
Yeah.
Um, and uh, yeah man, but like I had a, outside of Austin, it was like Rock Ridge, Texas.
So it was like a suburb of Austin and I pulled into a Walmart parking lot there.
Um, cause I'd looked up like Austin, like can't, like camping, you know, all that kind
of stuff before and it was like, yeah, Austin like allows like overnight camping at all of
their Walmart's, but like I had been there maybe an hour and I was just getting settled
in and like I get a knock on the window and it's a police car and they're like, Hey, yeah,
like this is Rock Ridge, Rock Ridge doesn't allow overnight camping.
Yeah.
They were cool about it.
Like they gave me like a couple, they're like, there's a place like over here.
There's a Bass Pro shops, like two exits south, you know, and that's over that line.
So you can sleep and I was like, okay, cool.
You know, um, but then I found like another spot, like the next night in Austin, it was
like behind a gas station, it was abandoned.
And I just, from the road, like I was going by and I just saw a bunch of like dirt roads
going up these hills and I was like, I wonder what's up there.
And it's just a bunch of like cleared land or like land next to like a big like, uh,
water reservoir like system.
And so there were a bunch of like dirt roads through there and a bunch of camping spots
where like people would camp.
And I was like, this is perfect.
I just pulled into one of the clearings there and I stayed there the next two nights, you
know, and it was far enough like away from like the roads and up on this hill where like
nobody could see me.
The sound didn't bother me.
I was basically by myself.
I ran like my generator with the big AC, all that kind of stuff.
Like it was great.
That's amazing.
Um, and then I was at a truck stop in Maryland.
Uh, and I had, uh, I had somebody, okay.
I was at a truck stop in Maryland and I was like in the van and I would like watch
TV, like like Netflix and stuff on my iPad.
So I was like watching something on my iPad and I kept hearing this noise and I was
like, is that part of the show?
And then I pause it and I was like, okay, it's not part of the show because I can
still hear the noise and it's like this, like noise.
Yeah.
And I was like, what is that?
You know, and so I have those, like I said, I have those, um, those insulator
panels up over my windows.
Yeah.
Right.
So I like undo the Velcro and like pull down the thing to like look outside the
van and see where the noise is.
And there's a truck stop prostitute sucking dick two and a half feet away from my window.
That's great.
No way.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Just a trucker leaned up against his rig, just getting his.
And they were that close.
They were parked literally right next to you.
Yeah.
Right next to me.
Didn't even bother to get into the camper and into the fucking truck or anything.
Just right outside.
Yep.
Just because of the way like the parking lot was turned, like there were like, I
was on the, like the backside of that parking lot.
There was like a wooded area back there and then there was like 17 trucks between
them, like the rest of the, you know, so nobody could see them back there.
And they must have assumed like I was inside it, like the diner or something.
Right.
Or they were like, they could hear the iPad.
And so they're like, oh, he's not going to notice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Or he was just a trucker and he said, didn't give a fuck.
Yeah.
So there was that.
There's another lot lizard.
And then here in Tampa, I was in a CVS parking lot because so typically when I
stop for the night, like wherever I'm going to, like wherever parking lot or
wherever I end up, I'll get out when I first get there.
And I like on my Apple watch, I'll basically just get away from the van.
So it doesn't fuck with my compass and I'll make sure like I get exact east.
So I know where the sun's coming up from.
So that way I can find like a spot with that's going to have the most shade
throughout the day.
You know, so I'm like, you know, I'll get under these trees because the sun's
coming up from over here.
So these trees will block me during noon and that tree over there will like block
me from the sunrise.
Wow.
You're like a real hunter gatherer.
Little bit.
Yeah.
Real frontiersmen.
Um, but, uh, so I'd done all that.
I was under these trees in the CVS parking lot because it was next to a
Walmart and I just happened to see it and I was like, this looks like the
best spot based on sunrise, all that kind of stuff.
So I get parked, I get in the back of the van and I just done, um, that was
the night that was the same night as the Ron White shows.
So because I just driven drove back to Tampa after the second show because I
had a show here the next night.
So that's like a two hour drive, two and a half hour drive.
So I was like, I was so amped up.
I was like, I'm not going to sleep in the next three hours anyway.
So just, I hauled ass back to Tampa.
So, but I get there, I get settled into the van and I go back and like start
watching my recording from my first set.
Right.
And like, it was like three minutes in, I get like a big applause break and I
was so giddy and happy and stoned that I was like talking out loud to myself.
Right.
And so I'm literally like watching my video on my phone and I'm
giggling out loud, like a maniac and like I'm listening to it in my Bluetooth
headset.
So like, I'm the only one that can hear the video, right?
And so I yell out loud.
I'm like, I'm a murderer, right?
Talking about the video, right?
And then I just hear from the ear that doesn't have an earbud in from outside
of the van.
I hear me too, bro.
And I literally, I've panicked and there was like, there was like a homeless
guy, like who had just been going by that saw the van was just like, and then
he just heard me yell, I'm a murderer.
And he's like, me too.
Do you want to do this?
Like, I guess he thought I was threatening him or something.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
No, he was just checking out my van.
He's like, this is the coolest homeless setup I've ever seen, like just admiring
my lawn basically as a homeless person.
You know.
Did you invite a man?
No, I just heard basically like, I was talking about my video.
I was like, he's not watching a video.
Yeah, he's serious.
So I was like, I was like, seriously, man, like I'm armed.
I'm sure you guys would have had a great combo.
Probably.
I've had conversations with other homeless dudes like all the time.
Like, so that's the weird part about living in the van.
Right.
Like I joke around about it, but I'm, I am technically homeless.
Well, I'm houseless.
Like I have shelter and an engine and that's basically it, you know, um, but
it's weird, like other homeless people still ask me for money.
Right.
So like I was doing, I went to an open mic in Orlando, uh, that's right downtown
and it's right, um, it's like one block over from the Amway center.
So when there's not Amway events, we can park on that, like on that street for the
open mic.
So I was parked and I was early because I was coming into town from somewhere else.
So I was just early.
So I had my, it was like, I don't know, like January, February.
So it was like nice and cool outside.
So I parked, I had the windows rolled down and I was just sitting there like
with my notebook, just like scribbling notes and writing out ideas.
And, and this homeless guy comes up.
He's like, Hey man, like, you know, it starts talking to me.
He's like, Hey, like, do you have like a, you get like some money or something?
Like, you know, like I'm homeless.
And I literally, I was like over my shoulder.
I was like, bro, you can see where I sleep.
Like I'm also homeless.
Do you have some money?
That's funny, man.
Yeah.
I was like, just assume if you can see where someone sleeps from the
door of their home, they don't have money for you.
Yeah.
That's cool though, with a van and interacting with all those weirdos on
the road that probably gives you way more material, you know what I mean?
Way more interactions with weirdos, way more opportunities for material.
One, that's the thing, like being out on the road, not just being out on the road,
but like being at mics, being with other comedians, like again, it's like
that socialization that I didn't have for a long time.
Yeah.
And so I'm re, I'm getting those skills back.
And also it's like people I can talk to about pretty much anything because
we all have this one thing in common.
So even if I'm talking, like going off on a tangent on something else, you know,
like it's everyone understands it's in the frame of comedy.
So somebody's like, Hey, do that as a bit.
That's a good, that was a good bit.
You know, even if it's something like, you know, they disagree with
intellectually or like, you know, things like that.
But yeah, man, just like being able to be around, like creative people again
and getting that socialization of like being out on the road and like realizing
like, Oh, I have that skill back of being able to talk to people again.
So now like in gas stations, like I'll, you know, talking to the cashier
and talking and I'm like, Oh, I'm doing that again.
I'm talking to strangers again, that kind of thing.
So like doing comedy has helped me rebuild those skills that I had lost
because people don't realize like autism can be regressive.
They normally people are like, Oh, like if you get, when you get diagnosed,
they're like, Oh, this is what you're diagnosed with.
This is how you are.
Like this is how it'll always be.
Yeah.
But it can get better or worse, you know what I mean?
Like, and that's just not something people normally think about.
Like, and I realized I had regressed a lot in those like years
where I had started becoming more hermity, you know?
Yeah.
And so now we realize like, Oh, I've built these skills back up and like
just where my mental health is, is just different now.
Like I feel better, like comedy has helped me feel better and like, you know,
how, how, how, what better way to guarantee it's not like, or to know,
like it's not one of those hobbies that I'm going to get burnt out on and,
and, you know, drop again.
Right.
Because it's, it's.
It's fulfilling something for me.
You are.
Yeah.
And it literally like from the bottom up, it literally makes you better
at every aspect of what you try to do.
Yeah.
And enhances your way of thinking and looking at the world.
So it's not only just like this thing that I love to do and not only
as it become my profession, but it's also literally like an occupational therapy.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
Like not people talk about comedy as therapy all the time, but like it's
not so much.
I mean, it is therapeutic to like speak your truth out loud, but it's
also just that therapy of like interacting with people, you know.
Yeah.
That's really cool, man.
Sweet.
Well, that was two hours, dude.
Thank you again for coming on.
Absolutely.
That was fucking amazing.
Thanks for coming.
Tell the listeners and everybody where they can follow you and find
all your work online.
Yeah, absolutely.
Um, AJ Wilkerson comedy on Instagram, Facebook, and then Captain Autism on
Tiktok and Twitter.
Um, on Twitter, there's an underscore at the end.
And, uh, I think on Tiktok, there's another score in the middle between
Captain and Autism.
Sweet.
I like getting the apparently there's another one of us out there.
There's another one.
Yeah.
Unlike Highlander, there can be more than one.
So yeah.
So there's another one out there.
So I got the underscores.
Um, but yeah, Captain Autism, AJ Wilkerson.
Sweet.
Yeah.
Appreciate it so much guys.
Thanks for coming.
Thanks again, bro.
Absolutely.
