Nathan knows that Ellenberger is going is cooperating or is planning on cooperating hasn't done anything yet
But he's planning on cooperating and he's gonna give up
He's gonna give up aria and several other people
Nathan feels really pissed off about that. There's a lot of other stuff, you know
Ellenberger is kind of at this point. He's just kind of a jerk to everybody. He's he's always he's entitlement issues
He's a short man complex the whole douchebag. Yeah, so
He goes so
Nathan ends up going to this club where we're seeing he's dancing with his girl. He comes up. He's like that motherfucker
I'm gonna fucking beat his ass. He's like, I'm gonna fucking kill this motherfucker and he's like bro. I'm with my girl
What are you doing? He's like, we'll talk about it later. We'll talk about it later
He's like fuck this motherfucker. So he leaves so he walks in Ellenberger is dead
He's laying in the middle of the of the bedroom one of the bedrooms dead
He says all he says neck was twisted in a way that he's not soon as I saw it was like he's very unnatural the way
So I was like immediately I knew oh my god. He's dead. He's like I ran. I tried to fucking wake him up
Are you okay? Yeah, he's like it but it immediately. I realized he's dead. Yeah, so
He immediately makes start he immediately calls farsion
First thing first thing calls farsion because he's got a dead body
His best friend is dead in his meth lab. I can't call the police
Right. I have a life sentence in meth. Yeah, right here. Nothing mentioned the money and everything else can't call the police
That's not that's not an option. No, so
He ends up calling so he calls he calls a farsion
Farsion
Apparently he said he said it sounded like he already knew what was going on come to find out later, of course
Nathan had
Had he said Nathan says they got into an art a fight. This is one of many versions. Nathan has said by the way
So they got into a fight and
He ended up breaking his neck
He said but it was probably broken. He said but he strangled him. Yeah, he probably snapped his neck
He probably got me. I had a lot snapped his neck. Whatever it was. He killed him. So
Pete doesn't know what to do. So, yeah
We've got phone records of all of these guys calling each other back and forth back and forth right after they found Ellen burger dead
Right. We got arias pager. You have the records of them calling
Calling farsion calling farsion calling Barreiro where Barreiro calls. Do they have a direct line to Barreiro?
Oh, yeah, you call Pete's called directly called the the task force
Oh, God, okay. I talked to him for like five minutes ten minutes. So so if Barreiro's like, well, I've never spoken to that guy
He's called you five fucking times in the last two weeks. He didn't talk to you for 30 so we have phone records right after you found your best friend
Fucking crystal meth dealer dead. You called an FBI agent right after that right records records of that. Yeah. Yeah
This is these are the records
Yeah, I'll see arias pager farsion's pager Barreiro's pager
But if you keep going Barreiro's office at
B&E right here. That's these right here. Okay, and they have the duration. This was 12 minutes 22 minutes
Anyway, okay, so this goes on and on because the only reason the reason this is important is that
Basically when the homicides start to get investigated and there's a link to the actual agents
These guys say tell the homicide detective. Oh, we haven't talked to him in months
No, it's been four or five months. We haven't talked to him since we saw him in
Vegas or wherever. Yeah. Yeah, no, no, there's a little shit. I got phone records
Well, there's keep in mind too later. You're gonna realize everybody blames Racini first. They all say he he shot him
He shot Ellen burger Ellen burger was never shot
Right everybody even when they eventually get the guy and now all the documents say shot shot all the guys are saying
Yeah, no, he shot but they never found the body. So how would they know what because when Nathan pleads guilty?
Yeah, he says I choked him to death. Why would you say that?
Nathan said he choked Nathan says he personally choked him to death. Remember, we know he broke his neck, right?
We know we took him to so ultimately though. I mean, even though everybody points at Racini went ultimately
Nathan finally says yes, he yes, I killed him. They say, okay. Well, would you shoot him with where's the body?
He goes, no, I didn't shoot him. I choked him to death. Same thing Racini has been saying the whole time
He wasn't shot. He was choked it up. Well, the only reason I keep harping on it is because
Later the government's like it's it's all bullshit. No, no, they're not they're not dirty agents. No, it's all bullshit. It's not true
Okay, there's a lot of paperwork that
Says otherwise a lot of guys walking out of jail a lot of cases getting busted a lot of you know
And why is Pete telling everybody this guy ripped me off and stole all my check breros bank account, right?
So at some point he starts dealing with another guy named Lance Estes, okay?
All right, and who is Lance Estes? He's a drug dealer out of San Francisco. Okay, so
You know Estes is a
You know works out all the time. He's a big guy good-looking. They're all fucking good-looking guys
They're all driving Porsches and Ferraris and it's ridiculous the amount of money. I mean, they're superstars. They're all rock stars
They're all working out. I mean, it's like what would you do if you were making a hundred thousand dollars a month?
That had nothing to do in the same drugs and women be a maniac
So these guys are maniac let alone you're in your early 20s, right?
So these guys are maniac so he explains what what ends up happening is Lance Estes is dealing with Rossini and
He ends up getting busted. He and his best friend get busted. You know, they get they get busted by the
by the local
Task force well when they get busted, they've heard about
You know, they've heard about you know, they know Rossini. They've heard about this dirty agent
So they contact him and Pete says to him look he can get rid of your case for a hundred thousand dollars
So Lance is cocky and you know Estes is cocky and he's like, you know, I'll give you fifty thousand up front
But I want to meet this motherfucker, you know, he's a fucking tough guy
so they go and they meet and he meets them and and
Farce he meets far she owned and Borreiro's across the street
It's never confirmed that Borreiro's across the street
But we know from several different different reports that there was a guy there was an FBI
There's an it's there was someone across the street. We assume it's Borreiro. Yeah, so he ends up telling him
He ends up
Pulling a gun on Estes because that's he kind of gets in his face and he pulls out his badge and sticks a gun in his face
He is motherfucker. He said I'll put him
He's I'll put a bullet in you right now and I'll put this piece on you
He's you see my partner over there. He'll say he saw the whole thing
You pulled it on me and I fucking killed you is now back your fucking ass up
So he's like, oh, so he realizes, okay, he's definitely an agent got this guy over here. He's got this
He's got the badge and he's I'm done right like this guy's for real
So they set up a time they give him 50 they meet at a hotel or a motet
They meet in a motel give him $50,000 they he gets a room here. He gets a room here. They meet here
They come down. They give the thing. It's a whole fucking spy thing, right?
So so they give him 50 grand and these are reports of the guys talking about how
Lance told Lancer Estes told him that he had given
$50,000 in cash to
Racini and that the money was a down payment and was going to blah blah this is him telling one of his buddies
I gave Racini gave the money to down payment to get my my case quashed. Okay, so we're good
I just paid 50 grand down. We're gonna get it taken care of
What he doesn't realize is that the guy he's telling which is his best friend is
Already gone to the authorities and said I
Know we're supposed to be working with you, but my buddy's still selling drugs and he's now dealing with that dirty FBI agent
He's now double-crossed him. Yeah
so
Now the authorities are like whoa you double crosses but you're in bed with an FBI or some FBI agent
You just gave 50 grand to so
that helps so
So did you get his case squashed and you end up paying him the full hundred grand and getting that whole thing taken care of
He does give him a hundred grand, but what ends up happening is I mentioned that Lance with this. Yeah. Yeah, this is
This is his girlfriend by the way
so this is Lance this is Lance Estee's girlfriend, which is
Monica Treo, okay, and she tells a grand jury later
You mentioned that Lance had met with this
supposed FBI agent or whatever to get him off and he was
Convinced by credentials and she says by credentials. Did he get a bad? Did he see a badge and she says yeah, he saw a badge
Okay, oh
Give him the money got the money. There's a dispute with Estee's. I'm gonna try and start wrap
I try and get really start cutting through it. Yeah, there's a dispute with Estee's okay between farce on a Estee's
Estee's basically tries to back out it get it filters down to Borrero and farce on that Estee's
Has told somebody and they know he's dealing with it
He just gave somebody 50 grand for a dirty agent. So fuck so they say they say the deal's off. They get into a huge argument
Racini puts it back together. He says okay now. It's another hundred thousand dollars
So give him 50 he's like, okay, so I think he gives him another 50 and then he's he's going to give him the last 50
he's so there's a huge dispute where they have a meeting and
Racini's at the meeting
Harrison's at the meeting
Farsion shows up
Farsion said Harrison saying let's just kill this guy
Farsion says talk talking about who let's just kill talking about Estee's he's saying let's just kill him because he's now talking about
testifying against
Farsion and Borrero so he basically says let's just kill him and Pete's Racini's trying to talk him out of it
He goes to Farsion Farsion says
Okay, kill him
if he doesn't bring the money
kill him
but don't kill him in San Francisco because he lives in San Francisco kill him here because
Harrison's talking about going to San Francisco go into his house killing him and killing his girlfriend if she's there
Racini's saying because Racini's like what if his girlfriend's there? He's well. She has to die, too
He's like no no and Farsion goes no no no no bring him up bring him up here
If he doesn't have the money kill him because if he doesn't bring the cash kill him. Okay fine. No problem
So he flies up
He shows up. He flies from down from San Francisco to LA. Yeah from San Francisco to LA. They're all gonna meet
He's supposed to bring the money. He says he's got the money Pete thinks he's got the money
Racini thinks he's got the money Racini say he's got the money. Everything's gonna be okay. He's gonna give him the money
It's good. He gets there
They pick them up
Wayne picks them up they walk inside
Everything seems like it's gonna be okay. He walks into the kitchen Wayne pulls a pistol out shoots him in the back of the head
Boom as he's is dead as he's is dead. Eventually Pete ends up getting busted
He gets arrested for something stupid and before they can get him out of jail
before Farsion and Barrera can get him out of jail he gets ID'd and
agent a lappa
flies in from
Hawaii and
Tries to interview him and so she tries to interview him and he said Racini said states
You know to the agent a lappa that he had nothing to say to her
He wasn't gonna speak to the government, you know, he wanted
He was certain that Farsion was gonna take care of it 100% sure keep mine. They show up first
You're smart and you're guilty
And you're looking at a lot of time you better cooperate. You're not beating this in trial
Yeah, not with this these kind of numbers not with these kinds of people not with this amount of people everybody around him is getting busted
Yeah, he's been indicted in multiple jurisdictions. You're just done. You better expect to fucking either die in prison or come out when you're in your 60s
Yeah, so or you cooperate
He tells him he tells her basically kiss my ass. I'm good cuz he knows
He's gonna get a job. He's got all them guys boys are gonna get me out. They always do a hundred grand
I'm sitting on millions. Yeah, I'm good. I'm good
Well, hey, so a lot of time goes by kick rocks lady. Yeah, some time goes by and
He's getting phone calls from Reza. He's getting calls from aria. He's talking to guys on the phone
I don't know if it's aria. He was talking to was it Reza?
He's talking to people on the phone that people are answering his phone calls and everybody's telling him hang tight
They're working on it. They're working on it. Well, eventually he comes to the conclusion after a few months. Yeah, nobody's working on it
Nobody's working on it. Yeah
His he gets a new attorney comes in he tells the attorney
He tells the attorney what's going on. But so he's like just hold it off. I'm gonna get this whole thing quashed
The new attorney's like, are you fucking crazy? Yeah, what do you mean? You you got dirty agents?
He doesn't let me go tell the US attorney. He's like, no, no, no, they're gonna get this whole thing quashed
I mean, they've got me knocked out of out of jail. They've had me released a couple of times now. I'm good
They have my buddy like oh, I'm here. I'm good
That they're like you're fucking crazy. Well weeks and weeks and weeks and months go by fuck and he starts to realize
Fuck I'm done. Yeah, so
He says so finally he comes to the conclusion
Okay, I got a real problem here. Nobody is answering his phone anymore by the way
They they stop answering his phone. So when everybody stops answering your phone, he goes desperate
Yeah, so he gets a little flipped out and he's like fuck. He realizes he's done
People other guys are getting busted guys are coming in the prison
in there so he says
Okay, fuck it and he contacts his attorney. He says, okay, I'll cooperate. Yeah, I'll I can cooperate against some dirty FBI agents
Well, they come in and they say
No, we're not we're not as you could plead to a life sentence and that's it he said and then we'll talk about it
He's like, oh, you're you're crazy
What happens is it filters down through all the US attorneys and everything to Barrero and far she owned and far she owned finds out
Barrero find out that he's talking about cooperating against dirty law enforcement
So far she own calls everybody together
He calls, you know, these guys that I'm trying not to use too many names. It's cause everybody everybody
Me chummy calls this guy calls that guy. So whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
He calls everybody together and they all meet Harrison. They all meet everybody involved
Nathan even Nathan who killed Ellen burger killed Ellen burger
Harrison killed Estes
Nathan killed Ellen burger calls everybody together the whole crew
Family pow wow, right
all right
This is John Alonzo
Talking about how well wait, you know what? It's it better. It's better like this because
Because this is the one
Okay, he meets at his girlfriend's house, right? His girlfriend's name is
Odalis Melendez
So everybody meets there. She's in her bedroom while these guys are all me and there's several meetings
But there's one meeting in particular. She talks about where she talks about how everybody got together
She also she knows everybody except for this one guy named John something another friend of
Russini's in LA
She says he's from he's from
He's from Beverly Hills. Well
Pete says it's got to be Arya. It's the only guy he knew that was a friend that lived in that area that so he's like
He probably came in and just said his name is John. He was but it's he's assuming. That's Arya. So right LA near Beverly Hills
You know, all right, so and this is Alonzo
So she's got she names all these guys and she can hear them discussing
Roussini
She hears them talking about Roussini. So they're talking about like well, how do you think Roussini killed these guys?
Keep in mind the two guys that actually actually killed him or in the room. So she's not quite hearing. She's hearing bits and pieces
Well when they leave there by the way, one of the people that shows up I told you this is for shown for shown shows up
He has his little meeting and in the meeting
This is exhibit 50
By the end of that meeting everybody has agreed
That
That Roussini
Committed the murders. He killed both guys. So far she own goes in and says
There are homicide detectives investigating. They're wanting to talk to people. They're gonna be talking to you guys
They're gonna find you they're gonna talk to you when they do you just need to tell them
Roussini you don't tell them that you've necessarily saw it
But Roussini or you heard or whatever we need to point to Roussini. He's right now trying to get us fucked up
We get fucked up. I guarantee you you guys are all getting life sentences
Yeah, keep my they still think he's an FBI agent
So we're telling you right now Roussini shot him. That's what happened. He shot him
He helped the speed dispose of the body. He shot him dispose of the body. That's what you're gonna go with
They said, okay, cool. So everybody says, okay, so immediately when these guys get interviewed
They immediately all start saying
that
Keep mine Pete didn't have a gun. Yeah, he said I'm there. He goes. He's I he's I had a gun one time
He's like, you know, you see like you're saying he's like he's not a gun guy
Right. He is at that level dealing with those guys. You don't really bring guns
Yeah, you're when you show it with 50 kilos of ice or something
You don't bring a gun because you're just in that much more trouble. You're probably already dead
It's usually dealing with don't if you don't deal with people that you need to bring gun, right? So anyway, this guy talks about how
He heard he heard rumors that Pete killed him that Pete the guy owed him money
So Pete killed him. What kind of gun did Pete had did Pete have a gun? Yeah, yeah, Pete had a gun
Pete had a nine millimeter blah blah blah blah, okay, so he talks about that. This is this is one guy
This is a Alonzo says that
let's see this is
this is so then
Eventually and I'm gonna fast-forward this because
Yeah, so this guy Odessa Melinda. She says again that
Harrison said that he had he had dealt with the cleanup of the body
She admits that he cleaned up and that but he says Roussini killed him
Like why and at what point did they go to law enforcement and say that he killed these people?
They didn't go there. They know that law enforcement showing up at some point
Homicide detectives are leaving cards on your you come home one day. They're sitting outside your house
They start getting picked up. They get mainly about Estes. Huh, right about Estes
Ellen burgers, you know, no one's no one knew what happened to Ellen burger, right? Well, they kind of know but they don't know
No, but rumors they found the body of Estes. So that's so this guy here says
He says that Ellen burger they called Ellen burger beetle by the way
So it says, you know beetle in Beatles room. He says that he after that after, you know
Pete killed him. He saw the blood stains
There's no blood stains. He was had his neck broken. Right. So there was a huge pool of blood
From the gunshot wound that didn't actually happen
So
Okay, so all these guys start losing sardom failing polygraphs by the way
Yeah, so stories falling apart, right?
Harrison
Harrison who shot
Estes says that that you know
That Pete did it Pete did it gunshot wound, you know in the head. This is a footnote
Is that 70 87 and 70 talk about it?
so
I mean see the thing is is that I like I could go fucking on and on and on anyway
Ultimately, Nathan ends up filing some paperwork and in the paperwork Pete all Pete gets the paperwork
You have to understand when you you know, the cases are long
So you learn things slowly people are talking to each other
As you can if I can read your paperwork it helps give insight into what happened in my case. So
Nathan eventually files paperwork where he explains
He explains about getting paid $30,000 from aria. He says for a drug transaction
Pete says that's not possible because we were the ones who were supplying all the drugs
I don't know if he was selling drugs, but whatever the other thing is
He says that he was called to a meeting at Wayne Harris's girlfriend's house named
Odalis Melendez and that there was a whole bunch of people there and that any any names them off
You know John Alonso this guy Dean Zirek or something
George Merzik Mark Farcione was there Wayne Harrison a bunch of guys were there and that he says specifically
Farcione said that
Racini was cooperating. He was an ungrateful bastard. I think somewhere here. They say this and that they
they need to
put the murders off on him and
Nathan came there with like his two with three of his cousins. He shows up with the three cousins
so they're all there while this discussion is going on and
Mark Farcione tells them that they have to put everything off on Racini Racini killed him Racini shot him in the head
Blah blah blah tells them all same thing that Melendez says
same thing other guys say there was multiple meetings and
Nathan gets so upset about it. He doesn't like the idea of frame. Remember he didn't like the cooperation thing either
He didn't like Ellen burger was cooperating. Yeah, he doesn't like the fact that now these guys are saying
We're gonna put it off on Racini when he knows Racini didn't do it, right?
But they're saying look you too though that gets you off. This guy's too honest
Yeah, he's he's the kind of guy. He's the opposite of a shrinker. Yeah, he's the kind of guy
Ends up doing 25 years for being so honest. So by the way, this is when Robert Muller comes into picture. Okay, so Muller the
There was something called. There was a seprecha prong. There was this guy that ends up. There's a there's a whole thing about
Dirty agents in this office. So Muller comes in to kind of clean up the office
They the the Department of Justice says look Muller, we're gonna send you over there to clean it up
So Muller comes in he fires a bunch of people. I mean while there's yeah, there's because there's multiple
Cases like this going on where there's dirty agents throughout the whole United States
But even in this area in his jurisdiction, okay, there's in there in New York
They're in whitey bulger is happening at this time. Okay, whitey bulgers bribing an FBI agent
I think agent Connolly or something like that. So, you know, there's all this is this is happening in
Multiple jurisdictions the Department of Justice and this is during Muller's reign. The whole whitey bulger thing is during is that's also during
That was all investigated by by Muller Muller was the one of the assistant US attorneys or one of the he was he was in charge of the
Task force one of the task force that was investigating
Okay
Bolger so he was involved in that but you know
He's way up here. Yeah happened to be one of the many guys in the chain
I don't think he necessarily had anything super to do with it. They there were allegations, but you know, they're who knows, right?
Listen, I can only solve one thing at a time
So what ends up happening is to eat this elephant one spoon at a time one spoon full at a time. So this guy
Okay, so this is a document where Muller comes in and they start
Asking for evidence. So now they've arrested they've arrested Harrison
They've arrested
Wayne Harrison the guy who killed Estes and they've arrested
Frank Nason
So Nason's been arrested Harrison's been arrested. They are kind of joining forces and they're saying look they're going with what's called a
It's called a public authority defense wherein they say
We thought we had authority to do what we were doing
Initially keep mine at this point. They fail their polygraph exams. Yeah, everybody's failed some of these guys failed like three of them
Okay, if you go on the website, you'll see I've got one after another. Yeah, the story keeps changing change
Well, so they're like no so-and-so Pete killed him. Okay, then it's okay. No Pete didn't kill him
Harrison killed him. I saw the blood. No, I didn't see the blood. No, he killed him
No, this now they say they keep changing change every time they fail it eventually they come clean there
And basically as clean as they can. Yeah Harrison killed them and
But it was Rossini who ordered it can't say the FBI
We can't say the FBI ordered it because that would be a major fucking problem. Yeah, we've already been told
So it's somebody you can you know, why would you say anybody ordered it?
Well, you have to say somebody because if if I'm Harrison and I say I killed them. Well, why'd you kill him?
Right
So I told me to kill him
Yeah, it's better for me to say that Danny told me to do it because then I get to cooperate against Danny
So you don't really want me because I wouldn't have killed him on my own
Danny did it or you got a card to play right? So that's what happens is they all start pointing at Rossini
so
He is putting together a case so he goes to Rossini keep mine at this point
They've now focused in on Rossini. We've got all these people saying Rossini did it. They're all willing to testify
We got like eight guys ready to say Rossini did it in some form or fashion
We're talking about this guy saw blood this guy did this this guy did that this guy's got a gun
Everybody's saying he did it Pete knows you screwed they so bad it becomes a capital case
They actually have a small like a little trial kind of thing
They go to Washington Pete's attorneys go to Washington
They have a little trial to decide in front of I think Janet Reno
To try and fight or try and figure out. Can we kill Pete if we find him guilty?
Can we execute him right and they say so they they Pete's lawyers lose that and they say yeah
Yeah, if you can prove all this and he gets found guilty. He's gonna be executed
So now you're on death row
You're one of the first people on death row the other people that were on death row at that time other than Rossini. It's Rossini
It's the unabomber and
It's Timothy McVeigh the Oklahoma City Bomber Ted Kaczynski. Yep, Timothy McVeigh Pete Rossini
Fucking do it. They didn't even do murder. That's fuck. Wow
so what
What ends up happening is and keep mine he was all the evidence they explain is that Pete killed him
He shot him with a gun
Yeah, be different if you can't win said I
It was a conspiracy you're saying you're telling these people I shot him. Yeah, and he loses
He's gonna get executed. So, okay, so he comes back
Number of circumstances grow. Okay, so what happens is Mahler at this point Pete pleads guilty
They go to Pete and they say listen
He's telling trying to get him to plead like to a life sentence, you know first and then they come back and
Finally they go back and forth the lawyers go back and forth and Mahler back and forth and what happens is
Mahler says look, here's what we'll do the Pete knows all these motherfuckers are
Ready to testify against me. I didn't do this. Yeah, so I'm pissed. So that whole code thing
I'm ready to tell everybody throw. Yeah, right. So
Mahler says listen, here's what I want to do. Mahler knows his dirty FBI agents involved, but he comes in and says look
Here's what we'll do
We have Pete we have Rossini plead guilty
To 40 years and I'll allow him to cooperate against these other guys and we'll get his sentence cut
Significantly. Mahler says that. Mahler says that to Pete's attorney. Uh-huh takes a lot of convincing
But Pete's like I don't have a chair. I don't have a prayer. My parents come in they're like look what are you gonna do?
The guy, you know what you come on these guys are guilty or not. You're gonna be found guilty. Yeah, no doubt in any way
It's on you. Yeah, so
Pete says okay goes to trial. He pleads guilty to two counts of
Conspiracy to commit murder and the furtherance of a drug conspiracy. He goes to Leavenworth
Goes to Leavenworth a few months later
Mahler shows up with this guy Burroughs
Bruce Burroughs, right? Mm-hmm. So he shows up with it, which is the FBI. He's over like the FBI
It's like the top one of the top dogs of the FBI. He's over the whole task force. These guys are all working for him
He knows him. Mm-hmm. He they come in they meet with Rossini
Mahler says, okay, these two guys are going to trial. I
Need you to tell you said you testify in he goes, okay, okay. Yeah, I'll testify. I'll testify. He goes, okay
Well, let's talk about this. So they sit down. He says, okay, so when did you uh, did did you shoot the shoot him?
He's like, no, I didn't I didn't shoot him. So he didn't shoot him
He's like, okay, but you told him to shoot him though, right? I didn't tell anybody shoot anybody
What do you mean? He goes
You just pled guilty to conspiracy to commit he's like I played guilty because you had like six or eight guys that were gonna say
I played guilty. Yeah, right. It's like you don't think I'm gonna testify to that, right?
He's like, well, what happened? So he explains what happened. Well, there was this dirty FBI agent
Mahler's been hearing this. Yeah, you've seen how many people are saying it, right? This is dirty FBI agent
There's this guy for our, you know for she own now Pete now knows
The guy is not he's at this point Pete knows, okay. Well far she own is not an FBI agent. He's actually
An informant professional informant. So he says, okay, I gotta take this out. That's hurting me. So he says, okay
No problem. So he goes, okay
He talks to me says, okay, so what happened? He said I was paying him this paying him that he's like what they're both taking notes
Mahler's taken notes borrows is taking notes. Okay, so what happened? Okay, this this he's like, well, when did you do this?
When you do so everything he's telling him Pete's unraveling his entire case as Pete thinks he's helping to cooperate and tell Mahler
What really happened?
He's actually
Destroying Mahler's case. Yeah, because Mahler had a very simple case
Right now. It's all fucked up. These guys were informants
Pete didn't like that. He was afraid they were gonna inform on him. He told these guys to kill them. They both killed them
They got rid of the bodies. It's a pretty simple case. Yeah, nothing to do with FBI agents
Yeah, Mahler didn't want it to have anything to do with FBI agents. This guy's on the shortlist to become attorney general
Yeah, okay
They keep so he's so he doesn't need this. He doesn't need this shit storm that this would stir up
This is another whitey bulger. This is another
Shit, I forget the other guy's name. Anyway, there's like a seprecha prong. This is another this is another preacher prong
Right. This is another huge dirty agents. The whole thing blows up and his name is attached to it. He don't want that
I'm here to clean this place up. Yeah, so he says, okay
So they he goes through the whole thing he starts explaining the whole thing this meeting takes place over three days
Mahler actually leaves goes back comes back
For two more days with boroughs. They take notes everything. Okay. He's telling about dirty FBI agents
Tell him about the murder tell them about how it was ordered telling them that mark farsion is the one who said to do it
Yeah, not to do it in San Francisco do it here. Don't let him find the body got the $50,000
Tells them everything so devastated Mahler's case. Yeah
He then says to Mahler or Mahler then at the end of it. Mahler says
According to Pete
He shows him Mahler one Pete gives him
He's like, yeah, but these guys haven't talked to you in this long and whatever what do you mean?
They say they haven't talked to you pulls out the fucking records and says really cuz I talked to him here
I talked to him Pete has all the fucking phone record more phone records of all these phone calls between these guys
Boreros pager farsion's pager this day this day right right after the murders right after the murders way past the murders with these guys
They haven't talked to him in forever
so
Goes through the whole thing and then unravelled everything unravels everything at some point
Moller ass shows them a picture of Arya and
Ask them about Arya. He's like that's Arya
Mahler says look, I'm bringing you back. I'm gonna have you testify in front of the grand jury
We're gonna indict these these dirty FBI agents gonna get your sentence reduced
And he signs an agreement with Pete
Well, he he gives Pete an agreement an ironclad agreement that says he will reduce his sentence
Which never happens never happens to no specific amount just says he's gonna reduce it
You know, you can't tell what the judge is good like I can't tell you the judge
I can I could tell you I'm gonna put in the motion. I'm gonna put in front of the judge
But I can't tell the judge's decision to do six months. He could do
20 years, right?
I don't know basically they take all these notes and they created a 302 which is the official
Document the official record for the FBI which is supposed to be a
clarification and
Condensed version of an interview. What's important? Mm-hmm. I just told you about dirty death FBI agents
Told you about payoffs told you I did not order the murder of anybody or conspire to murder anybody. Yeah
They craft the 302
Doesn't say a fucking thing about payoffs doesn't say anything about dirty FBI agents doesn't say anything about
Him denying anything
So with you and you read the 302 it basically talks about drug
Transactions and talks about a murderer and it makes it sound almost like Pete might have been involved
Doesn't say he's like he ordered it, but it's close. It makes it sound like he's he's part of it part of it. So
what happens is Muller prepares a document goes in to see nascent and
Harrison and he convinces them and you know, I'm not gonna get the whole thing
But it's a whole thing where he comes he basically goes in and says look I got a 302 here and gives them the 302 and tells them all
He's gonna fucking testify against you. He's gonna say that he did order
The murders these guys know he didn't order the murders. Yeah, so now he's flipping it on you
You go to there and start talking about dirty FBI agents ordering murders. We're seen he's gonna say he ordered the murder
How is that gonna look like you're lying? Yeah, that's you know, so that's what happens
So these guys end up taking a plea they take a plea for 25 years a piece
knowing
That that's that because they're terrified that Roussini's cuz who that's Harrison and all those Harrison and Harrison and
Nathan take a plea for 25 years for each murder
They both get 25 years because Muller's telling them that Roussini is gonna testify against you and he is going to say
Which is a straight-up lie straight up. So Muller's just playing them. Yeah, you're not a liar
And you're and he's prepared a document that basically supports right when he finally gets him to plead guilty
And he talks to Nathan Nathan says I choked him to death
Why is he decided to say that all of a sudden well because he's pleading guilty anyway
He's like I didn't shoot it. Well, how did you kill him? Well, I mean I killed him, but how'd you kill him?
I choked him to death. Oh shit that lines up with fucking what we're saying. He said so now Muller really knows Roussini
Oh, everything this guy said that he was the truth
But these FBI agents are dirty right everything and he didn't order the murder right so
But they plead guilty they get their 25 years based on Muller's lie based on that
Yeah, so I got that document here where he says where we're seeing or sorry
Nathan actually says at at the direction of Roussini, you know that he killed him. Yeah
Roussini's direction and then very within a few months or something like that
He Muller gets appointed to or nominated to be the FBI director and I only bring this up because I
Believe that Muller shifted the blame from the FBI
To Roussini, right? I believe he shifted that blame. I believe he covered up
I think he didn't start the conspiracy, right? Muller didn't start the conspiracy the FBI
Borrero Blum Borrero and far she owned started the conspiracy. They got the guy murdered they ended up
They ended up starting up getting everybody together to frame Roussini. They did that but Muller ran with the ball
He didn't turn around and do what he said he was gonna do didn't indict these guys
He just kept it going because it was in his best
Why do you think he really did that though? Do you think it was somebody above him that was pressuring him?
Or do you think that was all I think it was him. I think he's just personal career
Yeah, it wanted to look good
How bad is it gonna look? How bad look I'm going about my job the moment I start saying dirty FBI agents
She's it's a fuck people lose their job left and right these guys are retiring left and right all these guys that were involved in in
Bulger's case and in Salimi and all of these cases. It doesn't look good. These guys are immediately
So it's gonna be a domino effect. Yeah, okay, and I'll be involved in that. I'm about to be named attorney general
Turned out you wrap it up and didn't have to say anything. I gotta wrap it up. These guys got 25 years. They did commit the murder
They got 25 years this guy Roussini
They're gonna reduce his sentence. Who knows by helmet, you know, so he's kind of you. I'm sure he justified it very just fire
Yeah, these are bad guys. Yeah, they're drug dealers. Fuck them
They're not a US attorney. Right. This is a top shelf guy. Hmm. So
Here's what he does at his nomination the nomination of Robert Muller. I just love this quote
I just have to read this. Yeah, read it for us. This is a quote one of the one of the senators says
Do you believe there is a cultural a culture problem within the bureau the you know, federal bureau
He says I think it is and that so they're talking about all of these problems the bureau has so Muller's answer is I
Think it is absolutely unacceptable to try to cover up and not
Disclose something that needs to be disclosed and more importantly or as importantly
It's unacceptable to try to shift blame to someone else
Wow
Which is exactly what he just did you just fucking did and when he when he puts his kind of like there his resume
Like all the things I've done
his last case
One of his only homicide cases he's ever worked on and a death penalty case
Probably the only death penalty case he worked on he's he uses Racini's case
He says I handled with others the prosecution of three individuals for the killing of two persons whom they believe were
cooperating with the federal narcotics investigation
so he actually uses Pete's case as
Part of his resume part of his resume so after Muller disappears, right? They assign a new guy
They assume this guy David Hall. So David Hall. So
Racini puts in a motion immediately saying hey, it's been fucking months and months and months Muller's a goddamn
He's just turned FBI. Nobody's talking to me. What's going on?
He puts in a motion to compel them to reduce his sentence like I'm done
So he says so they they respond by saying so Hall's response to Racini's hey
I have an agreement with these guys of course
There's nothing in the file and what he's saying is I have a guaranteed agreement
So Hall looked at that and said we don't give guaranteed agreements, right?
So he's lying he writes even puts at no time was the defendant promised any deal or reduct reduced sentence by the government
officials
interviewing him
He's got to be so pissed off when he reads, but he's got proof. He's has his copy of the agreement Pete fucking's like what the fuck oh
That's all hell no yeah, so he doesn't he doesn't even file it nothing. He mails it straight to the judge
He mails it straight to the judge the judge who just read that gets this from Muller stating that
The government this is after you agree to cooperate, you know
the government in turn agrees to file a motion under rule 35 for a federal rule of
Criminal procedure setting forth the extent and significance of your cooperation such a motion will be filed at the conclusion of your cooperation
He's done. He's done
You understand that the government's motion will set forth extended so it goes on it. So it's a guarantee
Guarantee he doesn't say substantial, you know, we'll consider no no
So he sends this to the judge and the judge is like oh hell no bring him back
So he'd bring him back
Wilson Leone, which is another one keep my these guys got five attorneys working on his shit
Yeah, he's got like him. Yeah, like maybe his parents like leverage their house and get him one attorney
So how are you fight? How are you doing that? How are you fighting that? Okay?
So I'm it's I'm Adeo helping him at all or no. No, I'm Adeo is in around then. Okay. This is this is way in 2000
This is 2010. Okay, so he ends up they come back and they say
They come back and they say yeah, we don't have any file. We don't have any records
We don't have any notes all the notes were purged and this is that's what it says here. It says
Basically, this guy's it's a declaration saying that had no other documents or records related to the case that they have everything
That's it. This is this is a declaration
This is this is them telling the government the court. Hey, no, nothing else to give them. Fuck them. It's it. Okay, fine
So then there's a then they go so then Bruce Burroughs remember burrows went and took the note the guy who actually was taking the notes
Yeah burrows comes and so they investigate have burrows come back
So he comes back and this is just to clarify
The these notes are our win burrows and Muller went to the penitentiary for three days to meet with Roussini
Yes, right right now
Muller's notes
We never find they're gone. Muller's pretty sharp. Sure. I mean, we don't keep around evidence that can yeah
Yeah
so this so keep in mind so
They talked to burrows this is this is his transcript right so burrows Bruce Burroughs gets on a thing they say
Records be clear. This is in reference to that the three the three meetings with mr. Muller blah blah blah
He was and then they asked basically was he in did corruption at all
Come up with Roussini. He says no
Did he ever mention anything about corruption? No
No corruption no corruption did he ever did he ever disclaim
Disclaim any expressly disclaim any involvement in Ellen burgers murder? No
did he ever expressly
disclaim involvement in
You know in Estes murder no
Okay, so did he ever in any way to slay him there was a concocted conspiracy to frame him no
Never who's saying this this is burrows is saying he took all these notes and he's saying he never mentioned a conspiracy now
Pete's like the fuck. Oh, yeah, what the fuck um were you able able to confirm allegations of corruption? No
You know why because they never looked into it
Yeah, so if I say this guy's corrupt and I got five people that will say they were there when he brought them the money
You got to go talk to them. You can check the records from the hotel. You can check everything
If you're Mueller, you don't follow that up, right? You don't want to then there's paper trail. I got my murderers
I
Everything I'm not following leads that point to the FBI coming. Yeah being involved. I can't follow that
Oh, no, we don't even look into that right
So they start talking about the so this is Pete's lawyer starts talking about the 302 that was created and how it's not quite accurate
No, is it exact? And well, how did you create it because you know, I'm not sure my client says it's not accurate
And he says yeah, I did he said did you take notes? He goes. Yeah, I took notes
I do. Oh, do you have you know where the notes? Sorry. Did Mueller take notes? I don't know if Mueller took notes
Okay, so you did take me. Yeah. Yeah, I believe believe I did. Okay. Do you have the notes? I do not
Where are they now they should be in the file which file the FBI file your honor if there are notes so
this guy
Vermeulen which is Pete Roussini's lawyer says whoa, your honor if there's notes in the file
We need to see those notes. Yeah, we've asked for the notes
Okay, so guess what they go and they look in the FBI file and they're the fucking they find the
Jesus that they've already or we're not there. Yeah, yeah, not there been purged. There's no records. There's no
Bam, here's your fucking notes
This is this is sorry. This is funny. This is the US attorney saying this is after they find the notes
Pete said when he brought the notes in and laid them down and they started going over the notes
And I was like, well, what do you say he goes Pete goes, you know, what's funny about that?
I write this in the book where he says he says, you know, the funny thing is he goes
He'd done everything he was supposed to do like he filed the right motions. He said all the right things
He done all the right things. He was but when he saw the notes
It was the first time I could tell he believed me. Yeah, he's he was a good attorney
He's but he was going through the motions this when he looked at the notes. He was like fuck. Yeah
He couldn't believe it. Yeah, right because you know, you assume that the guys lying to you, right?
So anyway, this is one of the US attorneys telling the judge our files our internal files were purged years ago
There's nothing else
So that's why they can't find so the 302 is not synonymous with the notes. It's a it's vastly different, right?
And he says so they left out all the corruption at least leave out everything
So what ends up happening is she says, okay, we're gonna let you talk to Mueller
We're gonna bring Mueller back
Make sure they don't find the body and here it says that they said says not to kill him in San Francisco, okay?
So what is that from? This is from the notes. This is borough's notes. Okay, this is borough's notes when you're talking to him
Right now keep mine. He's got a bunch of notes
But these are the ones that he leaves out all these things. He leaves these out of the 302
The 302 never mentions anything about corruption
$50,000 payoff right anything the hotel nothing keep mine to multiple people are there
All he's got to do is go talk to these people right people were there
Muller doesn't go no not interested in talking to them
Can't have we can't be generating can't be generating these notes are here these notes are here
So it's done they got them they got them dead to rights pretty much well
Do they because you would think you would think declaration of defendant Rossini submit
So Rossini here explains how what he told Mueller in this whole thing
He ends up taking he's on a screen everything they talked to him. He's only only got two hours
So they go through the whole thing and you can read this this is all on the on the website
And this is like right after 9-eleven, right? It's no it's a while out
This is a while later like this happens in ten ten years. It's a 2011 now
Okay, keep my Mueller's been constantly putting this off. Yeah, you know, I have meetings with right house
All right, so finally they say we'll do a conference below they do a conference only gonna be two hours
So, okay, they ask basically yeah, let's let's try to summarize that
Okay, summarize the whole thing is that they start asking him questions. Did they talk about this?
Did they talk about this? So this is the one that I love so he's expecting him to say, you know, he's he's like
He's like I'm expecting to say that I just what happened. Yeah, so say what you talk about come clean
He has no choice did mr. Rossini ever flat out deny
He was involved in the murder of Ellenberger or X this or or Estes
Did he ever deny it? No to the contrary he implicated himself substantially in both of those murders
What about the notes, right? Oh
I'm sorry. Oh, yeah, I'm not no no they found the notes. Oh, that's what I'm saying right here cuz they ask him
Did you review this? No, did you review this? No, we sent you this did you know?
No, did you he's like all I looked at was the 302. Yeah, because he knows cuz he helped probably helped craft the three
Right, of course. Yeah, so then they start going through and if you read it on the thing
And I you know in the book and if you read it on the website, which I mean, I know we're trying to wrap up
So he ends up saying
He says oh Rossini downplayed his role
Substantially he did this he did that he then they start saying so he it starts to become obvious as they're asking the questions about
Corruption and were you involved in this were you looking at this?
We looking at this he starts to realize something's you know, you start to realize
Something's up. Yeah, it's got to know something. So it's like uh, then he starts immediately saying they start asking about corruption
Law enforcement investigation. Did you look into this? Did you did you know who this person was? Did you know who this person was?
So they start asking about Harrison and Nathan, right and Rossini preparing to test of preparing him to testify
They start asking about all these different things and one of the things they start asking is about the about
He's like they're like, why would you co-see him? Well, we wanted to make sure that we were gonna prosecute the right person, right?
You you didn't right? So so what he told you was completely contradictory to that. So he says
Do you review all the all of the notes? He's like no
Well, how about the law enforcement reports? Did you review those law enforcement reports? I reviewed the 302
Did you talk to agent burrows or anyone under this he says not that I recall
You know, so yeah, I'm gonna talk to anybody, right? He's in Washington. These guys aren't called
You can't call the FBI director. It doesn't matter who the fuck you are. Yeah, that's your president
The and nobody thinks he's anything's wrong. A lot of these guys are just going about their normal day
They don't realize this guy's gonna get on the stand and say all this fucked up shit. So
When you went to talk to Rossini, you know, Pete
Do you recall, you know far she owned borrera or blum and and about the investigation? He says
I'm not certain
See what I'm saying now. He's done. I'm not certain too long. I can't remember can't recall
He starts doing all that shit. I can't recall. I can't recall. What about far she owned?
What about this the case not that I'm so I'm not saying, you know
So he starts fumbling and fumbling and fumbling my favorite part is
When he starts to kind of get him into a jam. He says I don't recall like yeah
I don't recall at this present time
I do not recall what I was thinking or in my mind at the time
He's like, do you remember reading this where they were saying it was about corruption?
They were talking about they were focusing in on corruption and this and this he says
Do you recall at this point having read that or not? I said, I don't recall but I can tell you I
adamantly agree disagree
Well, okay, basically, you know snaps, you know a police officer did not pull the trigger or kill
And he cuts him off. He's like, I'm not I'm not saying he did he pulls out the handwritten notes and
They start going over the handwritten notes who starts pulling the lawyer the lawyer. Yeah, Racini's lawyer Racini's
Yeah, yeah, and he starts to show him the notes shows him the Mueller and then he just fucking turns into
Listen, I don't remember nothing
Did you discuss this, you know one two three four I
Could have then it becomes I could have I don't have I don't recall today
If it's in Bruce's 302 we did right he keeps going back to the 302 that looks good because he knows
Well, of course you're safe there. Yeah, they crafted it. We know
Yep, it's perfect. That's all I read. Yep. So he starts talking about testimony
He's not you if you read the whole thing everything that Racini said was correct and
He's he's really really trying to back out of the whole thing and so it just becomes a whole bunch of I don't recall
I don't know. Well, what about this note? What about this? He's like, I don't know what was in Bruce's mind when he wrote that
I don't recall
What did you do after Racini told you all this? Did you launch any investigation at all?
You went to Leavenworth and the guy just told you
that the FBI
Officer is the one that basically, you know officer or you know agent whatever
Yeah, they conspired to help commit this murder or that they leaked the information
They come did you look into that at all and he's like well, we may have it's possible
We could have because he knows doesn't look good if I didn't follow that up
Yeah, well, we already know borough said in his transcript. We didn't look into any of that
Because he's saying that didn't even happen. He's saying now we know it happened. Did you look into it?
He's like well, we could have maybe possibly there may have been a separate investigation. I know we're talking about this investigation
I don't recall. I don't know. It's probably it's very probable it occurred
So they go on and on I mean it just bro
It just it goes on and on in the end. He just it reverts to him just saying I
Don't recall. I don't recall. I don't know. I don't recall. I don't recall and if you read the whole thing
And I know we can't read the whole thing. I know it's it's ridiculous. It's it's you know, it ain't good
Yeah, and this is this is a condensed version. Keep in mind. This is a hundred and thirty six pages almost all Mueller saying I
Don't recall. I don't recall unless you say something bad about an FBI agent and then he says that is absolutely untrue
You know meanwhile, there's notes from his meeting with Pete that basically say basically contradict everything that he's saying everything
He's saying we've got they've got notes that say yeah, exactly. They're worth. They're worth. There were payoffs. There was murders
Farsion saying we're not to murder him here. Make sure they don't find the body
Didn't even look at it grand here doesn't even look in there
And this is where so after the two hours is up then what happened like what happens after after they prove after this proceeding is over
He gets re-sentenced
The judge knocks it down to like he goes from like 40 years to like 36 to 35 years
So it's like
Not five off fuck nothing so he Pete appeals it he gets again again
He appeals it
They say the appellate court says you're we're gonna let you talk to this guy. We're gonna let you bring Mueller back
Untimed
That's one of that's one of the things they went like you can't limit them
Yeah, so his attorney basically there's a new attorneys like look they calls up they call up the
Wilson Leon what is this like his third attorney? Yeah. Yeah, so they call I they call it the use attorney and they say look
We're bringing Mueller back
He is and where I'm gonna keep him on the fucking stand a couple days now really
The guys like all right listen calm down. Let's let's work this out. Let's work this out. So they end up they end up
Eventually they end up
Realizing that this is it. We're done. We they're gonna bring Mueller back
They've got the notes so the US attorney comes back and Pete said he was really irritated because he's like
I really wanted more to get back on the stand
but they they basically they file a stipulation the government concedes that
What Mueller said was inaccurate? Mm-hmm, and you know, they don't say lie. Yeah, he materially
Misrepresented the facts of the cat, you know that kind of bullshit
So basically that what he said was was inconsistent with the notes in consistent with what actually happened
And it talks about so they concede a whole bunch of stuff and they agree that
Everything that Pete said that he denied he denied it
He denied that he had done all that that he'd conspired to do any of anything to kill anybody that he talked about
They basically concede everything that actually happened
they bring Pete back again and
And
Put him in front of
The court again they once again the US attorneys come in they basically miss they basically
Misrepresent what actually happened and they can try and confuse the issues and they say it's all Pete's fault because he was a leader organized
They're a blah blah blah blah. It's all him. It's all him and
He gets sentenced again. I think this time it drops to
34 years they knock a year off. I think they give him 34 years
You know the two guys that committed the murders
Eight Thanksgiving with their families. Yeah, right Pete had a holiday meal in the fucking chow hall his mother
Came to see him. You know, I mean, I mean your mother drives an hour and a half two hours to come see you
It's bullshit
And they and all them guys know it right and do it right and here's the thing and and so the people that actually the FBI
Agents and the informant and the people that actually
that actually, you know
Committed to the whole story the whole murder and the frame up
These guys are these guys are at home with their families. Yeah
That's it doesn't it doesn't make sense and you know and Mueller getting on the stand and saying some bullshit
You know, if you read the book, I you know, it clarifies it really well where he's just complete
It's just bullshit. He didn't know the notes existed. He's ready to fucking bury Racini
He could have cut him fucking loose. He could have said this man did an amazing job
You need to cut it. He could have right then said he you got to cut his sentence
It's a great he really helped us he this you that I mean he could have pushed it instead
He did the opposite keep them in fucking prison, you know in the back of the book. I
Say I want to say I say he's being released and it's October. I think it's October 2025. Okay, not 24 might be 24
Out the check, okay, maybe 24. So yeah, October 2024, man
And he's already done 20 something years
So, right, that's that's fucked, you know, his mom comes to see him like every two weeks
Just like my mom used to come we used to see each other. What is he?
Pete pizza Pete's 50. He's 50. No, it's exactly my age. Wow
So yeah, so I mean that's it's definitely, you know
And here's the whole thing don't even believe me just look at the evidence read the book look at the evidence
You don't have to believe me. I'm just some scumbag. I mean, I have no problem with you said, oh, I don't fucking believe it
Okay, great. Don't believe me. Yeah, read the book. The facts are there. It's not even a big book. Yeah, it's an abridgment of a larger book
It's like it's like 110 pages. It's a joke. There's footnotes
They all correlate with the exhibits
so that's that's
That's where I'm at and keep in mind things could go bad for me
I could get violated may for all I know they may come after me. We were talking about getting killed
So yeah, so anyway, don't come after us, please
You
