Anyhow, going back to Cincinnati, when pulled up my messages and there's a voice that's
Pat here, he says, well, you got time, give me a call.
Pat Patterson?
Yes.
Wow.
Oh, you know, Pat.
I know Pat Patterson.
Yeah.
Yeah, Pat.
Patricia.
Anyhow, one of the best tag wrestlers ever.
Now he's like one of the top executives, right at WWE.
Yeah, but one of the top, you know, he was one of the top.
Roman Ray Stevens, which of me copied their little bit of their stuff too.
They were the best tag teams ever.
Anyhow, he said, give us a call.
So I said, that's funny.
So anyhow, I give them a call and I'm on speakerphone.
And the speakerphone, they're in Vince's home, not in the office, they're in his home.
And I said, it's Pat there, he said, yeah, Pat, and he says, yeah, there's a guy here
who wants to talk to you.
And then the voice in the background said, Kiwi, I'd like to use you.
I said, who are you?
He said, I've been speaking man here.
I'd been sending tapes to this fucking bastard.
Since Betamax.
If you know what Betamax is.
Yeah.
Early 80.
Yeah.
I've been sending to the dad, to Betamax, and then I said, every year I send tapes to
them.
Can you use us?
Because that was the number one, one of the number one companies in the country, you know
what I mean?
They only worked up north at the time.
They only come down as far as Philadelphia and Baltimore, and they did Boston, and they
did all that up there, but it was big money there.
So I've been trying, but they didn't take us smaller guys at the time.
They had big guys.
I'm talking about guys, six foot four, six foot three, and 260 up, you know?
So he says, yeah, and I said, yeah, and I said, yeah, I'm interested.
He says, when can I talk to you?
And I says, you just named the time, and we were working planned every day for NWA.
And he says, right, when you get home, there'll be tickets at your door, at your door, there'll
be tickets at your door when you get home.
I gave him my address on the phone, and he says, next Wednesday.
So he says, all you do, you don't have to bring anything with you.
When you fly up there, you'll be flying home the same night.
So we flew into Kennedy, there was a limousine up there waiting for us.
We were straight up to Stanford, Connecticut, which is an hour away from Kennedy, met Vince.
Vince Jr.?
Vince Jr.
Yeah.
Senior was dead.
Okay.
He was dead in four, three or four, 83 or 84, and that we met him, and that's funny
part of us, we went into the office at, and we're sitting there, and he says to us, you
know, I'd like to bring you in his baby faces, good guys.
And of course, I piped up and said to him, bring us in his heels first and turn us.
And he says, no, I don't do things that way.
And then I found out you don't tell Caesar, his nickname was Caesar, you don't tell Caesar
what to do.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
He says that.
And I'd like you to be between the sheepherders and the moondogs.
Work like between the sheepherders and the moondogs.
The moondogs were two guys and had bones, big, heavy guys were crazy and had bones.
You know what I mean?
There were heels up there.
And he says that I'll start bringing you up every week for the next month to do vignettes,
which you know what vignettes are, small movies, two to three minute movies, you know, to get
you over.
So we got home, and when we got home and that there was the tickets there, two days later,
which calls me up and he says, fuck, there's something here, a package here, they've sent
the wrong names, that's for the Bush Whackers.
And I says the Butch, he says they must have sent them the wrong person, I says no, he's
changing their name because he wants to own it.
You know what I mean?
He's changing their name.
So that's how we became the Bush Whackers.
So you didn't even know what he was going to call you until he sent you that?
No, no.
Wow.
You know a Bush Whacker?
No, like back and forth about it at all.
No, no, you don't have a choice, you know, if you want to work for Caesar, anyhow, a
Bush Whacker is like a Robin Hood steals from the rich, it gives to the poor.
Okay.
You know what I mean?
And they did a thing like that with Mick Jaggers in Australia, that movie, I forget the name
of it, but that's what he was, you know, a Bush Whacker.
So there you are.
That's the name of that.
So he kept bringing us up and at the time, which was exploding on television was Crocodile
Dundee.
Yeah.
And that's so all the vignettes were rid around like that, you know, driving on the wrong
side of the road and talking and that and we did a lot of vignettes and that crazy ones
going, going to a drink machine and putting, you know, and shaking the machine saying,
how do we get these drinks out?
And people on the street say, oh, you drop, put quarters and then the can will come out
and how do you open them?
And I took out my teeth and popped them with my teeth.
You guys are just kind of like cavemen.
Yeah, cavemen and that, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And doing all sorts of stuff.
And then we asked the guy how to, for directions and we turn around and put, oh, these Americans
are great.
They even tell you where to go, you know, but we'll put it the way they tell you to
fuck off.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The way we did a lot of vignettes, you know, went into restaurants and that and they served
the stuff.
We ordered the whole menu and we threw away the knives and we ate from down under, you
know, with our hands and that and all that sort of stuff.
We did a lot of vignettes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
