Ready to go? Thanks for doing this, man. I appreciate you coming down. Absolutely. Thanks
for bringing me down here. I'm excited, man. Obviously, you're wildly successful. You fly
me in for this. You're a pal, man. Thanks for coming. I really appreciate it. You got it.
Your story is fascinating, and I think it's incomprehensible to people to understand what
you went through at such a young age, at the age of 16. For people who don't know, why don't you
just give me a brief background on what happened to you when you were 16? I was arrested at the age
of 16 for a murder and rape that I did not commit, and ultimately, I was wrongfully convicted of that.
So my wrongful conviction, which happened at the age of 17, was caused by coerced false confession,
prosecutorial misconduct, fraud by the medical examiner, terrible public defender. I lost,
even though the DNA didn't match me. I was given a 15 to life sentence because I had been charged
as an adult, and I then spent 16 years in a men's maximum security prison from age 17 to 32, losing
seven appeals, getting turned down for parole because I maintained my innocence. Going through
that and then ultimately being exonerated through further DNA testing, which identified the actual
perpetrator. Fast forward to today, and I'm an attorney now. I've been cleared, and I have a
non-profit organization, the Jeffery Destiny Foundation for Justice, which has freed 11 people.
We've helped pass three laws aimed at preventing wrongful conviction. I'm an advisory board member
of the group. It could happen to you when we pass another six laws. Currently, we have 17 cases,
and we're working on policy changes in New York, Pennsylvania, and California.
It's fascinating. It's unbelievable what you've been through and how common
that this is in the judicial system in the United States, people getting wrongfully convicted.
What was the story of the girl who was, I think she moved from Columbia to New York,
and she was in a high school with you? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, Angela Carrera was her name.
She moved from Columbia. She was living, as I understood it, she was living a very sheltered
life. She was in the country for about a year and a half. Ultimately, she went missing on November
15, 1989, and her body was found a couple of days later on November 17, 1989. She had been raped
and murdered. How old was she? She was 15 years old. 15 years old, and you guys were friends
in high school, right? We were not. I knew her name. She knew mine. She was in a couple of
classes as a freshman and one as a sophomore. That was it. I think in two years, I think I
briefly spoke to her twice, so we were not even really on a high bi-basis.
Now, did you guys interact at all? Was it just randomly passing by? You met her a couple of
times, but you didn't really talk to her much, did you? Yeah, it was the latter. Like you said,
she just happened by coincidence or by school schedule. She happened to be in two of my classes,
a freshman, one as a sophomore. Like I said, I briefly spoke with her twice. One time was,
I passed a note to her on behalf of a male classmate who was interested in her and
was kind of nervous to approach, so he asked me to pass it to her, and that was really it.
So the day she went missing in 1989, I believe it was, right? Yes, it was. Yeah, November 15, 1989.
So the day she went missing, where were you at? What was going on? What was that day like?
It was just like any other day in terms of the school day. After school, I had a friend named
Jason, and he lived nearby where I lived at, and we had developed a rather innovative way of playing
one-on-one in Wiffleball, and so I played Wiffleball with him that day and had dinner at his house,
and around, I would say around eight or nine o'clock, I left his house on my bike, and I
drove down the hill about like less than 10 minutes away and got to my house, and that's
what I was doing that day. And I think that day when she left her house and she went to like a
popular hangout area in the woods in mid-afternoon, I believe it was. Yes, let me give some back
source. So Angela was in a photography class, and the teacher had assigned the whole class,
including her to take pictures of some foliage. So after school, she went back to her house with
her older sister. The teacher had assigned like a buddy system for the protection of the students,
like a male student was matched up with a female student, and so she went back to her house. Her
sister went to the bathroom when she came back out, and Angela wasn't there. She left on her on
her own. So she went to the park to take pictures of the foliage, and the male student played hooky
on the assignment, so he never showed up. So she was taking pictures on this, there's a path between
Hillcrest in Peekskill, New York, Hillcrest condominiums, and well there's Hillcrest condominium,
yeah there's the Hillcrest school, and then there's condominiums, and there's like a woods in a
McAddon path that links the two, and so she went down onto the path, which is not that far away from
this wooded area called, or just called the pit, which you know teenage kids used to drink at,
and used to make out. That wasn't very far from off of the path. So she's on this path with heavy
woods taking pictures, and she comes across Stephen Cunningham, who's a who's a drug addict,
and who's high, and he sees her, he attacks her, murders and rapes her. This guy was smoking crack,
I think it was. That is correct, and how old was he? At the time of the crime, he was 29 years old,
and so you know Angela was 15, and at the time I was 16, I never saw him a day in my life. It was
just kind of like a random encounter, it was just unfortunate that she came across him at that time,
and you know that's what gave the occasion for him to attack her, and you know do what he did.
So he attacked her, obviously he murdered her.
At what point did she get reported missing, and how did and how long after that did they
discover the body? Yeah, I think that she got reported missing later, like early evening,
that late afternoon, early evening, she got reported missing, and her you know it was even
ran in the local, there was a local paper called then called The Evening Star, it was a daily
newspaper, a Connecticut paper, and they ran a story teen missing, had her picture and everything,
and you know and then a couple of days later they ran a follow-up story, you know her body had been
found you know naked from the waist down. Right, yeah they found her body, and obviously she had
been beaten, I think she had a lot of head trauma. That's right. They found a bludgeon wound on her
head that was like an inch deep, and they said a Gatorade bottle or something. Well they, yeah they,
well the Gatorade bottle comes in later, so it's her, yeah I'll get into that, I know what you're
getting at though. Okay. Yeah, yeah so she had like a deep head wound in the back, and so you know
that was, so the medical examiner, I mean he kind of flip-flops a little bit, I mean in one hand
he says, well the wound on the top of the head, that's what killed her, but then he also says, well
either that or strangulation. Okay. So he can't really determine which of those two things actually
is what caused the death, but both of them, both of them occurred to her. We're going to get to
the Gatorade bottle after. Okay, and so the people investigating this, is it just the local police
department? It's just the local peak-skill police department, yes, and there had been very few
murders in peak-skill overall, so you know their inexperience I think was definitely a factor.
Not a common thing to happen at that town. Not a common thing to happen at that town, no.
So in the course of the police investigation, they interview a lot of students from the high school,
and some of the, some of the students wind up telling the police that they might want to speak,
they might want to speak with me, because I didn't quite, I didn't quite fit in with them,
like the kids were likely like a year, well they were like a year older than me my first year,
so let me, hold on a minute here, let me start again, because I'm skipping, I'm skipping things,
but take your time, sure. So my first year in the high school, the kids were like a year older than
me, I skipped first grade, and so that caught up to me in high school, and so you know the kids
were a little bit older than me, and you know I really wasn't into drinking, and going to parties,
and chasing girls, and playing organized sports, and plus I didn't know them, like I, I grew up,
went next to the high school, but I had my own center, I went to Catholic school from grades
two through eight, you know, and then I had a lot of friends after school, so my after school life
was different than my grade school life, so I was like kind of popular after school, you know, just
whatever, I would, there's a lot of kids that lived in that apartment complex, and kind of whatever
I would suggest would, would be what we would do, we're going to ride bikes, we're going to movies,
we're playing Monopoly, we're playing video games, football, all type of things, right, but it was all
unorganized things, but that was after school, and in school that was a different crowd, a different
set of kids, so I didn't quite, I was kind of quiet there too, and I wanted to go to public
school for high school, not another Catholic school, because I really wanted to go to school
with the, with the kids in the neighborhood that I was playing with, and so, you know,
I purposely failed the entrance exam on the Catholic high school for where my mother wanted
me to go to. Oh really? So I think, because I wanted to go to peak school high school,
and she didn't want me to, so I failed the exam on purpose, and I go to peak school high school,
and to my surprise, I don't find the kids that I'm playing with in the neighborhood, these are all
kids that are like a year older than me because I skipped school, I mean, I skipped a grade, so,
you know, I was kind of, I was definitely picked on for sure, and my grades really suffered a lot,
and you know, so much so that I had to go to summer school, but I knew that if I went to summer
school in order to pass, I was going to be stuck with the same kids again next year, and so I decided
not to go to summer school, and so I did not go to summer school purposely to get left back,
to get held back, get held back, so I get, so now you're with kids your own age, now I'm with kids
my own age, so things did get better some that way, but then at the same time, these are still
different kids, then I was not in any of the classes with the kids from the neighborhood, these were
other kids the same age as me, but other kids, so I didn't, I still didn't quite fit in, I wouldn't
say I was really picked on anymore, but I still didn't quite fully fit in, so I was still relatively
quiet into myself, so in the course of the police investigation, the police interviewed many students
from the high school, and some of the kids told the police that they might want to speak with me,
because I didn't quite fit in, so this is what the police said originally put me on their radar,
an additional factor is that, is that this was, I was a sensitive teenager, this was my real first
brush with death, and I had an emotional reaction to that, and you know, the police thought that
it was suspicious that I would have an emotional reaction to the death of a classmate that, as
I've described earlier, that I barely knew. How did you originally find out about her death?
I found out originally through reading the newspaper, the follow-up article on November 17th,
you know, and then, you know, there was also, you know, an outspin in the school, loudspeaker, you
know, on wake and funeral details, and that thing, and everybody was talking about it, it was a huge
thing, it was a huge thing in peace, yeah, I mean, the whole city kind of shut down in a way, I mean,
parents were, you know, concerned about their own safety, safety of their children, they were
bringing kids to the high school, and then bringing them straight back, you know, picking them up,
bringing them straight back home, there were town hall meetings that were held periodically,
updates on investigation, safety tips, that kind of thing, so everybody was, everybody was talking
about it, so the police thought that this emotional reaction that I had was suspicious,
like it was some sort of outward sign for something that I was sorry I did.
How are you being emotional, like what were you doing that was
making them think that you were emotional? No, I cried, I definitely cried, I mean, many people,
many people, it affected me, I don't think I was that, in a way, I don't think I was that different
than the rest of the people in the city, I mean, a lot of people were emotional, a lot of people
cried, a lot of people went to multiple wake sessions, I mean, that was kind of commonplace,
so much so that there was free mental health services offered to anyone in the city that wanted
it, that's how badly it kind of shook everybody up, but we have these two reasons that I've
just laid out, why I'm on the police radar, and then there's a third thing, which is that the
Payscale Police, they got a psychological profile from the NYPD, so they turned to a
more experienced police department, you know, and look, give us this profile, what type of person
should we be looking for, you know, what were their characteristics, and so I had them as
fortunate of matching this profile, I mean, this profile said, well, it's, you know, likely
somebody that, likely someone that knew her, someone that was a loner, likely somebody in the
high school, well, that fits me, so type of reinforcing factor, so for the next six weeks,
the police play this cat and mouse game with me in which half the time they speak to me like I'm
a suspect, and when they would push too hard, and I would want to, they would get me frightened,
and then I'd want to get away from them, they would then switch it up, and, you know,
Jeffersus Junior Detective Helper theme was developed, so before I was a teenager, the career
that I fantasized about having when I grew up was I wanted to be a cop, I mean, I grew up, the cops
were our friends, they protected us, you know, they were definitely the good guys and people
you could trust, and I wanted to have that career when I, when I grew up, I fantasized about that,
and another thing about my background is I came from a single parent household,
my father was never involved in my life in any aspect, and that also will intersect with this
police tactics that I'm going to explain to you, so you never met your father or,
well, I met him for the first time after I was released, oh, wow, so I met him at there,
I met him at, I met him at 33, so yeah, so I never had any, any, any interaction with him, so,
and the police were aware of this, yeah, the police became aware of it, just like they became,
you know, they were aware that, you know, I had wanted to be a cop when I grew up, that was
what I thought about, you know, when I was in my teenage years, then I switched, and I wanted to
like be a lawyer, but, but still the idea of wanting to be a cop before that was something
they were aware of, and that was still kind of like part of inside me some, so I was vulnerable to
this, Jeff is junior detective helper tactic, so they would say things like kids won't talk freely
around us, but they will around you, let us know if you hear anything, stop in from time to time,
they would ask me questions, and, you know, opinion, they asked me opinion questions,
and then congratulate me that my opinions were correct, they made me feel important.
What kind of opinions would they, would they try to get from you?
Well, they asked me, well, you know, what route do you think that she took going from her house
to the park, and so I just thought about, well, I know where her house is situated, I know where
the park is, this is the most logical route that she would take, you know, and then, you know,
then they told me, then they, then they, then they, then another thing would be, they told me,
they told me her keys were missing, and then they asked me to speculate, well, what, what kind of,
what kind of keys do you think that she probably had, but separate from that, they, you know, they,
they, you know, they, they told me like there was a cassette, you know, her cassette tape,
with her cassette, or Walkman was, was found with the Walkman tape was missing, so when they,
they asked me, well, what kind of key chain, you know, so I'm thinking while she's an immigrant,
her keys are missing, probably a, I love New York type of key chain would be, so they're just asking
me these opinions, and they're, and they're, you know, they're saying, they're asked, they're using
the word opinion, what do you think in, in, in your opinion, they're just, and as far as I'm
concerned, I'm just having a normal conversation with them, you know, my speculations or my opinions
are no, they're just playing psychological games with you, they're playing psychological games with
me, and in addition to that, a further game is that they're playing good cop, bad cop, one officer
pretending, is the one, is pretending to be my friend, like, you know, and, you know, and the
other one is, is the bad cops, they were keeping me off balance that way, and, and, and in time,
I began to look at the cop who is pretending to be my friend, as, as like an adult, a positive
adult male role model in lieu of my father. So that goes on for, that goes on for about,
about six weeks, and in the course of that, you know, they're, they're giving me details about
like one time, they brought me to the crime scene and the lieutenant who oversaw everything, you
know, he's telling me the three different scenes, you know, and, you know, at the crime scene,
there's three different scenes at the overall crime scene where different things happen.
Like the scene where she was first attacked, and then she was dragged.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a scene where she was first attacked, the area where she was
raped, is it then there's another area where, another area where, you know, her, her, you know,
where she was dragged. So he tells me this, and then he's just asking me to, you know,
then confirm that, you know, and then, then later on, and when I'm at the police station after that,
and then the detective was pretending to be my friend, he asked me to draw a map of the area
where you think everything happened at. Well, you guys just told me earlier where you think
everything happened at. So I'm just regurgitating what, you know, what, what you're saying. And
when I was at the crime scene, you know, the detective said to me, you know, her body was
found over here. And it almost, this was when he was building off what the lieutenant said.
He says, well, her body was found over here, and there was leaves on top of it. It was almost
like somebody was, you know, trying to, there's a contrast. On one hand, she'd been attacked,
murdered, and raped. But on the other hand, after that, there's like an attempt to try to protect
her body from the elements by putting leaves on top of it. So he, so he tells me that at the
scene. And then when we're at the police station later with this map thing, and you know, and then
he's, I'm just repeating stuff that they're saying is what I'm getting, is what I'm getting at,
just as a microcosm of the many interactions that I had with the police over those six weeks.
So they wind up taking a blood sample from me, and they said that they were going to send it
for DNA testing, and that this was one way that I could be ruled out as a suspect. So I gave them
a sample of my blood. Then later, they tell me that there's some no information has come into
the police file. And they want to, they want to share that with me. And that's going to allow me
to be more helpful to them. First, though, I'm going to have to take and pass a polygraph, you
know, so, so the next day, rather than report to the high school, I instead went to the police
station for this test where I had heard to the rumor mill that other people had been tested at.
And instead, they drove me to the town of Brewster, which is in Putnam County. So it's 40 minutes away
by car. So there's three cops that come with me from Peekskill is the two detectives and the
lieutenant. But the bad cop and the lieutenant, they're in one car, they put me in the car by
myself, what the cop was pretending to be my friend. So another example of another psychological
game that they're playing. You know, and throughout this process, they periodically,
they periodically, do they have you like restrained? Well, no, I'm not, I'm not restrained at this
point. No, and they're periodically read, they're periodically reading me my rights. But I'm a 16
year old. I don't understand what, you know, what they're saying. And every time they read
anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law, I'm thinking to myself,
you know, my mind goes to like a civil court and thinking court, what are you talking about?
We're not, we're not going to court, you know, and that was all further obscured by the fact
that they're playing this game overall that they're pretending like, you know, they need my help to
solve the crime. Jeff is this junior detective helper. So they drove me to Brewster 40 minutes
away by car, which now means I'm not able to leave on my own. I'm totally dependent upon the police.
It's a school day. So my mother and grandmother, they think that I'm in school,
so they don't call around looking for me. They have no idea that anything's wrong.
They have no clue what you're doing. They have no clue what I'm doing. No.
Do they have any idea of you like working with the police for the weeks prior?
No, they don't, they don't. My mother knew that I interacted with the police once and then she
didn't want me to interact with them anymore. Okay. So you didn't tell her.
But it's right. So I didn't tell her. I mean, look, I'm at 16. I mean, that's the age where kids are,
you know, they're pushed back on the authority of their parents and, you know, try to get
independence. And, you know, we're all smarter than our parents anyway. And I didn't do anything.
They're telling me, you know, so what can possibly happen? They're telling me I need my,
they need my help to solve the crime. The cops are our friends. I don't think you know what
you're talking about. Let me just, you know, so that was kind of like the dynamic that was going on.
And, you know, they knew that my mother didn't want me to interact with them, but I'm 16 years old.
So I'm allowed to waive my rights and speak to the police without parental permission.
So I get to the place and since I'm driven there, I don't know where I'm at. I'm totally
dependent upon the police now. So there's a, there's a Putnam County Sheriff. There's the
polygraph. This is a Putnam County Sheriff's investigator, Daniel Stevens, and he's dressed
like a civilian and he never identifies himself as law enforcement. He never reads me my rights.
You know, and so we go to the waiting area and he gives me a four page brochure, which explains
how the polygraph worked, but it had a lot of big words in it, which I didn't understand. But then
I figured, well, what does it matter? I'm here to help the police. Let's just get on with it.
And they don't give me anything to eat the entire time I'm there. Then from there, they bring me
to a, another small area where the polygraph is gives me countless cups of coffee. And by the way,
I'm going to need something to drink. I can't. Oh yeah. Sorry, that was without to get your water.
Yeah, please. That would be great. Liquid death. Yeah, it's interesting. It's an interesting brand.
They sponsor us. Perfect. Perfect for this conversation. Yeah, I would agree.
I would agree. So it gives me countless cups of coffee. It seems fairly clear the purpose of
giving me the coffee is to get me nervous. And then he attaches his polygraph machine to me.
And then he launches into his third degree tactic. So he invades my personal space. He raises
voice at me. He asks me the same questions over and over again. And as you know, I'm really,
I'm not used to talking to adult males, because as I mentioned, my father was never in file for
my life. And, you know, I didn't spend very much time with my like uncles or other male
members of my family. So I'm not, I'm really not used to communicating with an adult male,
much less somebody who's carrying on in the ferocious manner that he is. So each hour that goes
by, my fear is increasing in proportion to the time. And he keeps us up for like six and a half
to seven hours towards the end. Yeah, that's a really long time. Oh, I'm attached to this machine.
And so he winds up saying at the end, I guess he was exasperated by that point that he hadn't
gotten me to confess yet. And he says, what do you mean you didn't do it? You just told me through
the polygraph test result that you did. I just want you to verbally confirm this. And when he
said that to me, that really shot my fear through the roof. And at that point, the officer who had
been pretending to be my friend, he comes in the room, the other cop leaves, he comes in the room,
Dr. Mactar comes in the room. And he says, he told he tells me that the other officers are going
to harm me, he's been holding them off, but he can't do so any longer, that I have to help myself.
Then he says to me, just tell them what they want to hear, you can go home afterwards,
you're not going to be arrested. So being young, naive, frightened, 16 years old,
not thinking about the long term, instead being concerned with my own safety in the moment.
You know, I was in fear in my life, the fact that I didn't know where I was and that nobody
else knew where I was either loomed quite large in my mind. I was overwhelmed emotionally and
psychologically. There's this push, pull effect on one hand, there's the possibility of harm,
and on the other, there's this false life preserver that he threw me. And so I took the out
which he offered. And I made up a story based on the information that he had given me in the course
of the investigation. By the time it was all said and done, I collapsed on the floor in a fetal
position, crying uncontrollably. And obviously I was arrested. Tying back to the Gatorade bottle,
one of the statements that I made in the course of the false confession was I said that I hit
her over the head with a Gatorade bottle. But as we're going to see a little bit later in the
story, you know, a Gatorade bottle, at that time, Gatorade bottles were made of glass. And there's
no way that a Gatorade bottle would have been able to inflict the type of wounds that this medical
examiner testified she had to on her head. And then in addition, there was no like shattered glass.
There was no shards of grass in the in the in the body either. So it like the story
just doesn't like make any sense. Right. At what point did you was this the point
that you finally realized that you were getting swindled by the cops? No, this happens a little
bit later. So let me tell you about that. So what so I mean, you're going through all this
interrogation, you're hooked up to a polygraph. And these you're you're saying that you're the
amount of fear that you have is insurmountable. Yes. What is that fear of? I thought
I I was it was fear of my safety. I thought that they might kill me there. I don't I don't know
where I'm at. Yeah, I don't know where I'm at. I'm in the middle of someplace where I don't know
where I'm at. And, you know, I have these adults that are that are questioning me that are putting
pressure on me. So at this point, you're obviously have lost trust in them, right? Yes, I have.
Definitely. Obviously, I've lost trust in them. Yes. To which up to that point, you trusted them
like they were helping you and you were helping them. Right. Yes. Okay. Yes. And then this and
then again, the cop who's them pretending, you know, my last hope, my last best hope, this friend,
right, this detective, who's pretending to be my friend, he tells me that they're going to harm me.
He's telling me that they're going to harm me and that he can't stop them any longer.
So that fear, you know, is buttressed by this objective, this, you know, this outside factor
is what I'm getting. It's not all just going in my head. It's external. It's external also.
And the way that he's, you know, he's he's in my face when I'm being questioned. I mean,
I'm in a chair and he's this mountain of a man. And, you know, like he's within a couple of feet
of my face and he's raised his voice is raised. And he's asking me the same question. So it's
all of those things in, in totality. Right. So, so after that, after I gave this confession,
I'm on the floor, I'm crying uncontrollably. They finally get me to stop crying. Then I'm
giving something to eat afterwards then. And then it's time to go back to the police station.
And they say they're going to take me back to the police station and we're going to share some pizza.
You know, and that's when they put me in the handcuffs. And I said, well, why are you putting
me in handcuffs? You just told me that I'm not going to be arrested. So the lieutenants said,
oh, this is just safety. So I didn't question it past that. So they put me in the car. I have
a handcuff behind me behind. And then they bring me to the police station. And the cop was pretending
to be my friend and the lieutenant, they disappear, but the bad cop, Detective Levine, he's he's
still there. But I'm interrupted as I'm eating pizza. I'm interrupted by this uniform police officer
who's periodically carrying out different aspects of processing. And so he winds up eventually
putting ink on my fingers to do the to do the fingerprints. And I remember that really pissed
me off. And so I looked at this other detective and I said, you know, you know, what is he doing?
You know, I got, you know, I've got ink all over my fingers. I'm over here trying to eat pizza and
I've got income my fingers now. And he says, well, he has a right to do that. And I said, well,
what do you mean he has a right to do that? And I was told that I wasn't going to be arrested.
And that's when he said to me, oh, you are being charged with the crime. And at that moment, I
realized I'd been swindled that and I remember being angry. I remember also being like dumbfounded
and stunned. And you know, I couldn't, you know, I didn't know what the hell was going to happen
from that point forward. I felt like an out of control feeling. That's why I all kind of like
sunk in. Did they during all of this, it's like they were, they were grooming you to be their,
their perfect suspect. Like, do you think from the onset that they were trying to just frame you?
Or do you think that they did they believe that you could have been the actual murderer?
Or do you think that they knew from the onset that we just need to find somebody to pin this on?
I think that they just from the outset, they just thought that they just needed to find somebody
to pin this on. Let me tell you why. So firstly, the whole false confession. There was no, it was
not, there was no videotape. There was no audio tape. There was no sign confession. It's just the
cops word for it. So when they come to court, crazy, I agree. And when we came to court,
they left the threat and false promise, you know, out out of out of their testimony.
You know, but let me, I mean, the reasons I think that it was not, it was not a good faith
error is because look, when the DNA didn't match the DNA before I go to trial, the results of a
DNA test result come in from the FBI lab. The DNA doesn't match me. And rather than acknowledge
they made a mistake, they continue to prosecute full speed ahead. So in his letter to the FBI,
asking them to the prosecutor, the lieutenant, the police lieutenant, Lieutenant, okay. Yeah,
yeah, Lieutenant Tumulo. So he writes a letter to the FBI, asking them to expedite the DNA testing,
because accounting at that point is not not able to do the DNA. They have only the FBI,
right? Yeah. At that time, at that time. Yes. So he says to them in his letter that the test
results, you know, are either going to confirm my guilt or else it's going to exonerate me.
But when the results don't match me, you know, the case kept going. He said after the fact,
after I was exonerated years later, he says that he claims that, you know, he had concerns and he
went to the prosecutor, but that was all he did. Like he didn't go to the prosecutor's supervisor.
He didn't go to the district attorney. You know, he didn't go to the attorney general. He didn't
go to the FBI. He didn't do anything. He just sat back and let everything happen. So that's
one aspect of why I say that. And another thing is another aspect of it is that
when the DNA didn't match me, the police went back out into the field and they interviewed 17
witnesses who knew Angela in one capacity or another. And all of them told the police that
she didn't have any friends, that she didn't have any boyfriend, rather, that she didn't have any
boyfriend, that there was no consensual sex. Because that's what they were trying to, they were
trying to use that excuse for the other state. For the DNA not matching me. They tested the
semen that was on her. That's right. Yes. They tested the semen. It didn't match me. And then
that's when the medical examiner says, his theory, he comes up with this the day after the DNA
doesn't match me. He says that he remembered that he forgot to document medical evidence that he
said showed that the victim had been sexually active. So that opens the door for the prosecutor to
argue, aha, this is how the DNA doesn't match you. And yet, you know, and yet, you know, you
still murdered and raped her. How could they possibly have medical, what is considered medical
evidence that she was sexually active? Well, he claims that he saw perforations of her hymen
on medical slides. That's what the medical examiner says. But wouldn't that be from the rape?
Yeah, it would have been, not only that, but if there was a consensual sex, and then I murdered
and raped her after that, that means that there would have been seminal fluid from at least two
people, right? Not one, right? Okay. So, so taking it a step further, he mentions another youth by
name that he claims had slept with the victim. But he didn't try to prove that he never had a DNA
test performed to prove that he never called him as a witness. He just made the unsupported argument
to the jury. But what I'm getting trying to get to is, in that context, when
when they're when they're trying to support this consensual sex theory, the police went back into
the field and interviewed 17 witnesses who knew the victim in one capacity or another. And all of
them told the police you didn't have a boyfriend. There's no consensual sex. The police purposely
did not document any of those witness interviews. And so that way there was nothing, they didn't
have to turn that over to my attorney. So I'm all speaking to the issue of whether or not I think
this is a good faith error or not that that's why I'm bringing this in for. Additionally, wasn't
there also pubic hair found on her of African American descent? Yes, there was. There was pubic
hairs found in and around the body that were determined to be a Negroid and of Mongoloid
origin. And I'm Caucasian, I'm white. So the. So again, the prosecutor argues by inference,
he says, oh, this must have come from the Vietnamese medical examiner and his African
American assistant. So I've learned since then that when pubic hair, it was pubic and head hairs
both. Okay. Yes, that's. Yeah. So he's saying that he's saying he's just saying the word hairs,
but he's referring to both, but he's not saying pubic hairs. He's saying head hairs. He would
have said pubic hairs. You're right. That's like makes that's like really crazy. We get naked
with the body. I mean, we got another issue here. Right. But he just says hairs to try to encompass
everything. But the hair expert, I learned later, the hair expert, Dr. Peter DeForest says,
well, if that's your explanation, they get get me the hairs from the medical examiner.
Right. Let me do the actual comparison. Right. But he was never given. He was never given any
of the, he was never provided with any of the hairs. And one more thing on the police level,
which is that, uh, uh, not, not content with having forced the confession out of me with
his illegal tactics, but they also, they tried to help the prosecutor get around the DNA exclusion
also. So they fabricated a statement and attributed it to me. What I mean is they claimed that I told
them that I didn't know if the perpetrator ejaculated or not. And that word was not in my
vocabulary as a 16 year old. And that when you look at their police reports, that statement
in their write up of the confession, that statement doesn't appear in their early write ups about
the confession. It only appears in their write ups after the DNA doesn't match me. So it seems
clear that they came up with that in order to help the prosecutor get it around the, uh, DNA
exclusion. So there's a DNA test result and all the stuff that's taken place before the trial
that I've just mentioned to you. So in terms of the trial itself, you know, I, I couldn't afford an
attorney. My family couldn't afford an attorney. So we had, we went with, uh, Westchester County
legal aid. So my public defender, I had assigned to me was a Peter in Sarong and he supposedly was
their best trial lawyer. Uh, so he essentially didn't defend me. He rarely met with me when he
would meet with me and I tried to explain to him that I was innocent and what happened in
interrogation room. Uh, he was always shutting me up. One time he told me he didn't care if I was
guilty or innocent. He never interviewed my alibi. I told him I was playing with football with
Jason. He never, he never interviewed or caused a witness, my alibi. He never explained to the
jury the significance of the DNA not matching me. He never uses that to, um, uh, to challenge the
confession and argue that the confession is coerced or false. Uh, speaking of the confession,
sometimes he's arguing to the jury that confession never happened. Other times he's
arguing that it, uh, happened, but that it was coerced and still other times he was saying that
it happened, but it was false. So by adopting this, uh, throw mud against the wall type of, uh,
approach, he had to have been standing there with no credibility at all in front of the jury.
And when it was time to cross examine this medical examiner, uh, you know, it would have,
it's obviously would have been important to, to attack his credibility because he's the one who
came up with this consensual sex thing. Um, but instead he stood up in open court and with a,
uh, big smile on his face, like if him and the medical examiner were great friends from back
in the day, said to him, you're going to be pleased to know that I don't have a single question for
you. Now, the last thing is that I wanted to testify at, at the, at the trial so that I could
put the threat and false conf, threat and false promise on the record. So when you defend the
case where there's a false confession, you have to answer that confession. You have to explain
that confession. You have to disprove that confession in as many ways as you can. You bring
it all together in your, in your closing argument, you know, but he didn't, he didn't do, he didn't
do any of that. He wouldn't allow me to testify there either. And that was the, you know, so all
those things, I got a terrible defense and a terrible, terrible defense. Now there were a
couple of other irregularities throughout the trial, but you want to ask me something for us.
Do you think the lawyer was just incompetent or do you think that he was working with the other
son? You know, I, I kind of feel he was working with the other side because I mean, some of these
mistakes, I mean, even like a third year law student would know not to do that. And when I've
met with defense lawyers in Westchester that know my story and I've had lunch with them, they've
often asked me, well, who, who, who is your trial lawyer? And when I mentioned his name to them,
they're quite surprised because they've tried cases with and against him and they thought that
he was pretty good. So he's still practicing today? No, he's, he retired now. He retired now.
So here's the other irregularities that happen at the trial. So firstly, the polygraph results,
they're not admissible in court because it's not, it's not scientific. In fact, even like
intelligence agents in the field, they're trained to beat the polygraph. Right. So it's not scientific.
And the whole premise of the polygraph, by the way, is that when somebody, the theory is that if
somebody lies, you'll get nervous, your nervousness will result in an increased pulse rate. And it's
the pulse rate that's actually measured by the machine. Right. People can control that. People
can control that. Yeah. So because of that, polygraph test results are not, are not admissible in
court. Right. So despite that general rule, this judge comes up with this backdoor rule where
he says that because the confession happened while I was attached to the polygraph, he lets the
polygraphists repeatedly tell the jury that I failed the polygraph while prohibiting my attorney
from questioning him about the methods that he used to arrive at his opinions. So that was one
irregularity. That was definitely prejudicial against me. Second thing is that the victims'
clothes, including the bra, the jury asked to see it. That correlated to one of the statements
that was coerced out of me, in which I said that I ripped her bra off. The jury asked to see the
bra. And that's important because some bras, you can't beat the way that they're designed,
you can't rip them off of a body. So the jury has to see the bra. And that's when the judge said
that the evidence included the clothes, victims' clothes, including the bra, had been left in
the courtroom over the weekend. And that apparently the janitors thought that it was garbage. And so
they threw it out and that the bra is not available anymore. And he substituted a photo in which he
said you can almost see the bra in the photo. He substituted that with the actual bra.
And that's wild. Right. He refused to declare a mistrial. He refused to strike any testimony
pertaining to the bra. And the last thing was that on the third day of the jury deliberations,
they sent out a note asking, well, if we don't, if we can't come up with a verdict,
are we going to be sequestered over the Christmas holiday? And the judge said yes. And so I've
learned since then that at that point it was 11 to 1 for a conviction. There was one holdout juror
who thought that I was innocent, but he said that they were all pressuring him. And he also said
that when they sent out the note and we got the answer back, that the pressure ratcheted up and
that nobody wanted to be there over the Christmas holiday. And so based on that, he switched his
vote, even though he was not convinced that I was guilty. And so when you add all those things up,
you know, I guess it's not that surprising that I was found guilty. I mean, I never forget the day
I was found guilty. I mean, it felt like I was kind of in like a nightmarish alternative reality,
because it's my way of thinking, at least up to that point in time, I thought that only,
you know, guilty people were convicted. But they said what they did and I was taken into custody.
I remember just sitting there kind of stunned, not, not, you know, I couldn't believe my own
hearing. I mean, the first three charges that they read, I was found not guilty of. And then the
fourth, the fourth, you know, fourth count they read, then I, they said guilty. And I mean, well,
wait a minute, I mean, that, that, that can't be right. Did I, did I miss something that I missed
the word not? You know, but I heard that then they read guilty and then guilty. So I was kind of like
in a stunned disbelief. I was kind of beside myself. Wow. What, what were your, where were
your parents during this whole trial? Were they, or your mother, your mother, rather, was she there?
Yeah, my mother, my mother was in the courtroom and, and so was my aunt Janet. Yeah.
And when they read that, they sentenced you to 15 years, what was it, 15?
15 and a life. I was, it was, yeah, I was sentenced to 15 and a life. Well, that was when I was
convicted. I went back and you come back to court after that, a different proceeding for the
sentencing. Okay. Yeah. So I remember the day of the sentencing that, well, I mean, my mother and
aunt couldn't, couldn't believe it either. I mean, they totally believed in the system. They
thought that I was, you know, going to be found not guilty. So did they believe that you were the
murderer at that point? No, they did not. No, they did not. No, they believed that I was innocent.
So when we went, so on the day of the sentencing, I begged, you know, I begged the judge to overturn
the verdict because I was innocent. And I referenced the DNA to support my contention. And,
you know, Judge Colabella actually told me on the record, he said, maybe you are innocent.
But, you know, he didn't, you would think that he would overturn the conviction then, right?
But instead he took, which he could have done by reversing any number of the
procedural rulings he made against me in the court. So the trial, including the
evidence, throwing out of the evidence issue that I went into a minute ago.
But instead he took the easy way out. He gave me a 15 and a life sentence. So I had been charged as
an adult, tried as an adult, and I was therefore sentenced as an adult and I was sentenced to,
I was given, I was sent to a men's maximum security prison.
