Today's guest has truly one of the most fascinating life stories I've ever heard.
Wally Green grew up in one of the most dangerous housing projects in Brooklyn, where all he
knew at a very young age was gangs, guns, and violence, until one day he met a man who
taught him how to play ping pong in his early teens.
From there, Wally went to become one of the best table tennis players in the world and
went on to represent the United States in over 40 international competitions in over
20 countries, including North Korea.
And his story about visiting North Korea is fucking mind-bending.
So buckle up, say your prayers, and enjoy this fascinating conversation with Wally Green.
Wally Green dude, thank you for traveling all the way here from New York.
The trip was okay, but towards the end of the trip, man, it started getting a little
bumpy and it's been a while since I've been on a flight, so I forgot how that felt.
Not to mention the lady sitting across from me going, Jesus, Jesus, and her dog going,
the whole time, so yeah.
The listeners that aren't familiar with who you are and your story, tell me a little bit
about your background and who you are.
Well, my name is Wally Green.
I'm from New York City.
I grew up in the projects as a young kid, 13 years old, got into guns and gangs.
I was able to change my life through the most unlikely sport of ping pong, a sport that
I hated as a kid anyway, but I guess that's what took me out of where I was.
Played all over the world for the U.S. team and then even did my own diplomacy for world
peace in North Korea.
That's my story real quick.
So where are you from originally?
Where are you born?
Originally Brooklyn, Brooklyn, New York.
Brooklyn.
What was that like growing up in Brooklyn?
What was your childhood like?
I grew up in the projects.
I grew up with a lot of domestic violence, like my mom and dad divorced probably, I don't
even know when they divorced because I don't have any recollection of them together.
So they divorced probably, let's say maybe one maybe.
My mom remarried, some idiot from the islands and he used to beat the mess out of her.
And yeah man, the domestic violence was crazy, it was just a crazy, really shit childhood
growing up.
Do you have brothers and sisters?
I have a step-brother, but my step-brother always got treated better than me because
my step-brother was the son of her new husband, who's my step-father.
So it was that kind of thing where you know, that's his real son, that wasn't the real
son you know, so I was the one that always got talked down that I was going to be in
jail and I was going to die or whatever.
All the bad stuff came to me and all the good stuff came to him, so that's pretty much the
childhood.
Were you close with your step-brother or no?
Not really.
He's the golden child.
I think I had a lot of probably animosity towards my step-brother.
I remember when we were really young and we had bunk beds and he pissed me off and I threw
him off the top of the bunk bed.
Damn bro.
I used to make him say that, let's say if I broke something, he had to say he did it.
So I would tell him, you better say you did it.
And then he would take the rap, yeah so I don't know.
Why did you do that?
I don't know man, I was just because I guess I was the one that was always getting in trouble
for everything.
It was always me.
No matter what it was me.
I always got to blame.
So I knew that if he said he did it, then he wouldn't get the ass whipping, right?
But if I said I did it, I would get the ass whipping, so I was like yo, say you did it,
say you did it.
Yeah, so that's pretty much.
What year was that?
Like what time frame was that when you were growing up in Brooklyn?
I'm a kid to about, I mean I lived, I stayed in Brooklyn.
Like 80s?
Yeah, I was pretty much in that situation until about, let's say like maybe 14, well
actually 16, 16 was when I was, I was still there until 16.
What was it like growing up in that area, a young teenager?
There is a lot of gun violence, a lot of gangs and you had to, here's the thing that
I say, a lot of people always say oh, you know, well you had a choice, you had a choice,
you had a choice.
You don't have a choice.
If you grow up in the kind of projects, you don't really have a choice because this is
how it goes.
Let's say there's always more than one gang, right?
There can be three, there can be four, there can be one, there can be two, whatever.
In my projects it was like three or four, right?
So think about it, if you're a kid growing up in the projects, right, and there are three
or four gangs that are in that projects, right, what do you think is going to happen
to you if you don't join one?
You're going to get your ass kicked from all four, right?
So at least if you become part of something, then you have protection from the other things.
So it's not something that you can say that you have a choice because you really don't
have a choice, right?
So you join a gang and you become part of, the gang becomes part of your family, well
they become your family.
They become you and they become more important than your family.
So that was kind of my situation.
Wow.
So were a lot of your friends and a lot of people that you knew they were all in gangs?
Yeah.
Yeah.
All my friends, all my friends, I didn't have normal friends.
And anyone who was normal, I didn't like them.
So I already, and then what happens, I already developed like just a hatred for people in
general.
Really?
Yeah.
As a kid, I just didn't like, I just, I was an angry kid.
So I was always looking for some fuel to piss me off, to do something.
You know, I was really crazy and just not normal by any means.
You were telling me that story about your mom and the bike, some kid stole your bike.
Oh yeah.
I told you that story?
Yeah, you told me that on the phone.
Oh my God, that's crazy.
I don't tell most people that story.
Really?
Yeah, so the fact that you told me that story is crazy.
You're actually the only person who's ever heard that story as a, as a podcaster on any
show ever.
Really?
So that's crazy that story.
Wow.
Today's my lucky day.
That's crazy.
But yeah, so I remember when I think, I can't remember how young I was, but I was definitely
very young and I had a bike and I was downstairs and some kid took my bike.
He told me, let me let him ride it.
I let him ride it and the kid wouldn't give it back and I went upstairs crying and my
mom.
How old were you?
I don't, I want to say, I want to say 10.
Let's just say it's got to be 10.
It's got to be really young because by 13 I would have just like, it wouldn't have been
good.
But, but yeah, it had to be like nine, nine, like nine or 10 and I came upstairs crying
and my mom told me, she says, listen, if you don't go back downstairs and get that
bike, I'm going to kick your ass all over this place.
And I was like, whoa, and my mom, my mom was no joke.
Like my mom would hurt you for real.
So I was more scared of my mom.
I went downstairs.
The kid and the kid's still there and like literally punched him in the face and he started
crying.
It took my bike, my back upstairs.
And then my mom said, good job.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
But this is the same mom who also said, hey, you know, you shouldn't be out there fighting.
So.
Well, I mean, that was probably good for you in a way to do that.
I mean, that was that was a pretty good lesson.
She taught you.
Yeah.
It was a really young age, especially even in that part in that kind of town.
You know what I mean?
In New York, you got to be tough when you're young to be able to survive and be able to
make it.
Right?
Yeah, you do.
You do.
I mean, if, if you're not, then people, people will try to take advantage of you or,
you know, people, people judge you a lot just by the way, by the way, your, your, your
face looks or by the way, your demeanor is.
So there's a lot of times you'll see people walking around with this face like, you know,
like this.
But that might not even be really that, you know, that might not be their heart.
That might not even be where they act.
But a lot of times they know that if they're not like that, then people are going to say,
oh, yo, you know what?
Yeah, that dude soft, yo, let's get him, you know, something like that.
So a lot of people walk around, you know, and try to be like, yo, I'm hard, I'm hard,
I'm hard.
I've gotten to some crazy, some, some crazy, just crazy stuff in terms of that kind of
thing where, where a particular individual, any of them, a particular individual was
trying to be hard and put a gun to my face and I slapped a shit out of him, dropped the
gun, try to shoot him.
And guess what?
We are brought to you by Manscaped, who is the best in men's below the waist grooming.
Manscaped offers precision engineered tools for your family jewels.
They obsess over their technology developments to provide you the best tools for your grooming
experience.
Manscaped is trusted by over two million men worldwide.
The Lawn Mower 3.0 comes inside their brand new Perfect Package 3.0, which comes with
everything you need to keep trimmed, cut free, and smelling nice downstairs.
I have tried to use regular beard trimmers in the past to cut my cock and balls, and
I cut the shit out of myself, and it was like the Texas chainsaw massacre, cutting myself
with a fucking open tuna can.
But this thing doesn't do that because it's got this ceramic blade on it, and it feels
like butter.
Don't make the mistake I did.
Use the same trimmer on your face that you use on your nasty nut sack.
Get 20% off and free shipping with the code CONCRETE at manscaped.com.
That's 20% off with free shipping at manscaped.com, and use the code CONCRETE.
Unlock your confidence and always use the right tools for the job with Manscaped.
He had no bullets in the gun.
He dropped his gun and you picked it up.
I slapped the shit.
It was crazy.
It happened in the club and it was a long story.
I had to do with a girl and him talking nonsense and I was with my boys, and another thing,
when you're with your gang, you feel like Superman.
It doesn't matter.
You're all powerful and this feeling because your boys got your back, and I can't explain
it, but it's just such a powerful feeling, and this kid put a gun to my face, was talking
shit about...
In a nightclub?
Outside of the nightclub.
About his girl and whatever.
I just got pissed off.
I just fucking backslapped him, as hard as I can, and he dropped the gun on the floor.
Then I picked it up and guess what, he had no fucking bullets in it.
He's walking around with a gun with no bullets, zero bullets.
I've encountered a lot of that kind of stuff in my life where people try to present themselves
as something that they're not.
It's happened another time, too, when I was with one of my closest friends who was in
my gang, and the kid came up to us, we were walking, the kid's looking at us, and we just
looked at them.
Then they walked away, and then they started coming back, I told them, boy, yo, we're gonna
have to fight right now because this motherfucker's coming back.
They started coming back towards us, and all it was was, oh, why are you looking at us?
How you know we're looking at you if you're not looking at us?
I'm real dumbness.
Then the kid was just talking to the kid, pull out a gun.
One of his friends, at the time, I had this name called Tragedy.
That was my gang name, Tragedy.
They called you Tragedy?
Why they call you that?
Because if you mess with me, it was gonna be a tragedy for you.
That was my name.
It was Tragedy.
One of the kids was like, yo, I think Tragedy knows your brother because this kid's brother
was a gangster and his brother was in jail.
It so happened that they figured out that we knew each other, and then the kid kind
of like said, all right, whatever, and he left it alone.
But I wasn't gonna leave it alone because this motherfucker just pulled out a gun on
me.
So a few days later, I was with my boy, and we, this is during high school, and we saw
him, and my boy was like, yo, that's the kid from the day right there.
So I was like worried, so I got my other two boys, and we went and followed him, and he
went into a store, and I went into the store, and I saw him and he says, yo, yo, remember
me?
Yo, let's talk.
I want to talk to you, right?
And I wasn't gonna do nothing to him, but I just wanted to make a point.
I was always about making a point.
So he didn't want to come out the store, and I was like, no, just come out.
I said, don't worry, no one's packing anything, he was just gonna talk to you, just come out.
Just come out.
So he finally came out the store, and I was like, yo, you remember the other day you
put a gun in my face?
I said, yo, if you put a gun in somebody's face, then you better use it.
I said, don't put a gun in somebody's face, and then don't use that shit, because right
now I can just end your life right now if I wanted to, right?
So I told him, I said, you know, I got respect for your brother, but what you want to do?
You want to keep this, or you want to end this?
How you want to do it?
And then he just chose to just squash it, so we squashed it.
But you know, like I said, there's a lot of, there's a lot of kind of those kind of things
going around where people, you know, want to be that gangster, but they're not really
that gangster.
Yeah.
Was there, I mean, was there a lot of gun violence being involved with those gangs?
You see a lot of people getting shot all the time, like, yeah, like I've had friends
who's gotten shot in front of me, you know, I've gotten grazed twice.
Gotten what?
Grazed, grazed.
Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Like in a shootout?
Like, well, just running.
Just shooting at you, you know, yeah, because, you know, a lot of times, a lot of times in
the projects or even around surrounding areas, if someone's got beef with you, you don't know
when they're coming.
So when you ever hear the terms about having eyes behind your, behind your head, right,
you don't know when they're coming, you don't know how people are coming for you, and you
don't know who.
Sometimes, sometimes you don't know who a lot of times, you know, you just see people
just run up on someone.
If you watch any of this stuff you see on the news, right, the person didn't call them
and say, yo, I'm going to come get you at four o'clock.
No, nobody says that.
They just go.
And if you happen to be there, you don't even know the guy runs up on you and starts shooting
at you.
Now, fun fact, most people who have guns can't shoot.
This is a huge, it's a fact.
Most people who have guns illegally cannot shoot.
Now it doesn't mean you guys got to come try to shoot me now to prove a point.
But you know, but, but you know what I'm talking about.
Most people, they, because, you know, in order to shoot a gun properly, you have to take
training to do it.
Right.
Right.
I mean, this is not shooting a gun properly, right?
It's not.
It's just not.
And most people miss point blank range, like point, like most people shoot you here and
they kick back and they'll miss.
So yeah.
Wow.
It's crazy.
It's crazy.
But isn't it true that most people that are in gangs that, that own guns, I mean, they're
not, I mean, people in gangs, they're not necessarily killers.
Like they're not just trying to go out and kill people.
They're doing it to protect themselves for the most part, right?
Yeah.
The most part of it is just trying to protect what's yours, you know, and not letting someone
else come in and try to step in and take what's yours, you know.
By all means necessary, you want to protect what's yours.
Yeah.
It's pretty much.
I mean, it's not that often that someone's trying to like put out a hit on somebody for
not like Gucci, man, you know, people running up on him when he's with two girls trying to
kill him and, you know, and then he ends up killing both of them.
Yeah.
I see.
I wonder who trained him how to shoot.
He obviously knew how to shoot.
I know, right?
Yeah.
It's, I mean, things like that, that's, that's more of a deeper level, right?
Yeah.
It's mostly bullshit.
It's usually a lot, just a lot of bullshit.
Like all these dudes been talking trash, you know, it's, it's, it's, I mean, when I was
younger, I mean, someone talked trashed about me.
I mean, that was a serious thing.
Nah, I don't care.
I'm like, whatever.
But when I was younger, it was, it's, it's, it's all, it was all about saving face, right?
And if you didn't do anything, you had the pressure of your people saying, yo, you don't
let the nigga talk about you like that.
Yeah.
You don't talk about you like that.
You're real.
Now guess what?
You look soft.
And you don't want to look soft in front of your boys, right?
So, so a lot of people go out and do stuff, not because they really want to do it, but
because they know that they don't do it, then they're going to look like a pussy, they're
going to look exactly, exactly.
And yeah.
And you don't want that because then your own boys turn on you.
So yeah.
Damn man.
It's crazy.
What a crazy way to grow up, man.
It's nuts.
It's nuts.
What's the craziest shit you saw?
Damn.
Let me see.
Hmm.
Crazy.
Anything that like really fucking stuck with you that you couldn't get delete out of your
mind?
Well, that was when my boy got shot.
My boy got shot next to me and that, and that, and that was pretty, and, and, and that was
more of like, we were hanging out like in the front of a project and some idiot rolls
by in the car and starts shooting.
And we thought no one got hit, but he got hit and that, and that should suck.
He, I mean, he didn't die, but I mean, he was pretty serious.
Really?
Yeah.
What did you, why, why did those guys shoot?
Even till today, we don't even know who it was.
They just came by, roll by, and they said, fucking niggas blah, blah, and yeah, and yeah.
So, so we didn't even know, man.
But yeah, man, but shit like that is, it's just, it's crazy, man.
Now I'm thinking back about it and just like thinking about it.
Yeah, I mean, it could have been me.
Right.
Like, you know, the bullets, bullets don't know names that, that they don't know people,
color, race, they don't care, you know, they just shoot and yeah, and, and even till today,
I don't even know.
I don't even know.
I have no idea who it was.
It was just real quick and, and I don't know, maybe, maybe they were trying to hit him.
Like, well, and I, I'll never know.
So is Ping Pong will ended up getting you out of this neighborhood?
Yeah.
And how did you get introduced to Ping Pong?
So the whole Ping Pong thing is, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Should I call it table tennis?
No, I like the word Ping Pong, man.
Okay.
I, so a lot of, a lot of the pro table tennis players, they, they hate the word Ping Pong.
But why, why do they hate it?
Oh, because they say Ping Pong is, is, is what you do in a basement, right?
My, my counter to, to that is number one, the best people in the world that play this
sport that destroy everyone are Chinese.
Chinese say Ping Pong, right?
I've never heard table tennis.
So I think that just solidifies my argument right there.
Yeah.
Totally does.
But, um, yeah.
So, uh, I hated Ping Pong actually, like growing up in the school, like in high school, we
had a pink, there was like a Ping Pong club in the, in the, in the lunchroom.
So I remember I was playing basketball, football, I played tennis, play volleyball, wrestling.
And I remember I would come through the lunchroom and see these kids playing Ping Pong and they
used to make fun of them.
Oh, man.
Fucking nerd.
So crazy.
Look at these kids with shirts, shirts and a stick.
I was like, Oh my God, what is this?
Right?
So, so I, I hated this sport, right?
And, um, so, so during the off season of my sports, I started shooting pool.
I got into pool.
Like I like pool a lot.
And I went to a billiards hall, another billiards hall, a billiards store.
And I had bought a pool stick, right?
For a little bit of money.
And then I went back a week later and then stole another one.
So I switched, I switched the pool stick out for another pool stick, right?
So now I had this really nice pool stick, which gave me the, uh, the idea that I was
good at pool and I really wasn't.
I was okay.
I was okay.
And I got hustled for some money out of pool hall, money that I really didn't have.
But I was always mad at my work for lost to bet pay up.
So I lost the bet and, uh, I got a little pissed off and I took the pool stick and I
hit it on the pool table and it, it cracked like the postage just cracked.
I was even more angry and then I turned around, I look and I see some Asian kids playing ping
pong, right?
So the pool had ping pong table, right?
So I look over there and I don't know, I think I, I think I was more being bully.
I was probably being a bully because I don't think I really wanted to play ping pong.
I went over there and I was like, Hey, I want to get a hit.
I didn't even ask.
I was like, I want to get a hit.
And the guy was like, you play, I was like, no, I don't play this.
And he gave me the paddle and then, uh, out of anger, I had played tennis also.
So I knew how to hold it somewhat right out of anger.
It was more me just trying to lash out at the ball because I broke my pool stick and
the ball went on the table and guy goes, oh man, wow, you play.
And I was like, no, I don't play this.
He was like, yo, you should go check out this club.
There, there's, there's a club downtown.
I mean, in midtown Manhattan, you should go check it out.
It's a ping pong club.
And I was like, there's a ping pong club.
What do you mean?
There's a place where people go and play this.
Like, I was, couldn't believe it.
He was like, yeah, it is.
So I was like, really?
So I wanted to go check it out because I just wanted to see.
I couldn't believe that there was a place where pro ping pong players played.
So, so, and you know, I was an athlete, right?
So I played every sport.
So I was like, there's pros that play this.
No way it's impossible.
So I go down, I go check it out and I go, I go inside this pool hall, right?
And huge pool hall.
And then it's like, I think it was like six tables and people were playing like
bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb.
And I was like, whoa, this is crazy.
I was like, whoa, this is this is this is nuts.
This is some next level stuff.
So I tried to get I tried.
I wanted to play right away, right?
Because I'm a seasoned athlete.
I want to play. Right. Nobody would play with me.
They would they were like, oh, my I'm tired.
Oh, I got to go somewhere and they would play with someone else.
And then I would get so tight.
And all I kept thinking in my mind was like, these motherfuckers don't know me, man.
I will shoot up this whole place.
I was so tight.
I was like, yo, what the?
So so I would just keep going.
So I'm a kind of person I like to go where people don't want me.
If you don't want me there, I will be there right in your face.
Like, like I'm like, I tell you a really funny, just a really quick side story
off of that, which I think is really funny.
So it's like the new app, as you know, is Clubhouse, right?
Yeah. And there's a particular person that I really can't stand.
I really can't stand this person, right?
But this person's in my contacts, right?
And a friend of yours.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, a friend of mine that I really don't.
I don't it's her and I really don't like her at all.
Like really despise her. Wow.
So she she's just like she she was really disrespectful
on something that was trying to help her with sponsorship stuff.
And she thought she knew everything.
And you see, obviously, she still didn't get sponsored because she didn't listen.
But she was really rude about the way she went about it.
And I told her, listen, you're being really disrespectful.
You asked me for help and I helped you, but you're being disrespectful.
And then she got to all this.
I said, listen, I ain't got time for your dumbass.
So I just I just stopped talking to him.
So a month ago, I get a request.
So so, you know, in Clubhouse, if people don't have invites,
what happens is the the app will find contacts and say, hey,
this person's on the waiting list for Clubhouse, right?
And then you can then invite them to Clubhouse
without sending them in your natural invite.
So it's a free invite to invite them.
Now, whenever you invite someone to Clubhouse,
your name is at the bottom of their profile forever.
That's how it works. Really? Yeah.
So so so this person that I really hate, it has her name, her profile.
And it says, nominated by Wally Green.
So the rest of her life, as long as she has Clubhouse,
as long as she has that phone with that number and Clubhouse,
my name is always right there.
And I did it on purpose. So that make you feel good seeing that?
Yeah. Got you, bitch.
Got you. Yeah, exactly.
But yeah. Yeah.
So so you got to that.
You got to a table tennis club or something.
So I went to the club and no one wanted to fuck with you.
No one wanted to play a game with you.
No one. No one. Everyone was like being an ass.
And eventually some old guy.
Are they all Asian dudes?
No, actually, actually, there were no Asian dudes.
Actually, when I went there, there were actually no.
There was not one Asian dude playing there.
Really? None, none.
They were all from the Caribbean.
As if I remember, everyone was from the Caribbean.
Yep. Pretty much everyone is from the Caribbean.
Yeah. And I think there is.
Is Ping Pong big in the Caribbean?
Caribbean.
Not really.
What part of the Caribbean?
Like Guyana. OK.
So there was a lot of Guyanese people playing. OK.
Jamaican people.
There's some Africans.
So so it was it was it was more.
It there were not one Chinese person there.
If there was, it may be one.
Was it kind of in the hood or?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, you said Midtown. Midtown. Yeah.
And so eventually some old guy came
and started playing with me sometimes.
Really cool guy and he would destroy me
like 11, like 21, maybe four or three or two.
Now, I'm an athlete and this old dude
who's like 60 is like destroying me at Ping Pong.
So I used to get so angry.
I got so angry.
And then but he couldn't play all the time.
So a lot of times I was just sitting in
and I really wanted to play now
because I was like this freaking guy beat me.
There's no way.
So this this this this dude came in
and I think maybe this is his first time at the club
and he saw me sitting there and he came with me and he goes,
Hey, do you have a partner?
And I was like, nah, not, not really.
And he goes, if you play with me
like two or three times a week, I can pay $20.
And I was like, what $20?
So for me, that was a hustle with $20.
Wait a minute, you know, just to play Ping Pong
because I could hit, you know, I'm an athlete.
I can play any sport. It doesn't matter.
So I was like, all right.
So I would play with this guy,
you know, maybe two times a week, three times a week.
And he paid me $20, right?
And then we'd talk a little bit.
You know, he asked me about my family and I was and I was like,
you know, tell him about my gang and stuff like that.
And, you know, we we became chill, right?
And then but for him, it was more like TV, right?
Because like, if you don't know anyone
who's ever lived that kind of life
or been in those kinds of situations, then it's TV.
It's a TV show, right?
I mean, most people
have never been around guns or gangs or been shot at or,
or, you know, that kind of thing.
So but they've seen it on TV or in the movie, right?
So when I was telling him stuff,
he was more, more or less
thinking this was like TV.
So he wasn't taking me.
Weren't you worried that he might be a cop?
Nah, because I because we we can tell cops immediately.
It's it's very undercover cops.
It's very easy. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
It's it's how it's I can't explain to you.
Like when you grow up, when when you grow up.
In the projects for a long time, you know, like you can see.
It's, you know, the problem with undercover cops
and I'm not talking about about cops now, so don't come looking for me.
You know, I got to put out what is called a disclaimer.
A disclaimer, disclaimer, disclaimer alert.
Yeah. But the problem of undercover cops and this can help you guys
is that they try too hard.
They just try too hard and they stand out.
And the thing is most people now now now it's changing.
Now in these days, it's changing a lot because I had to do a jury duty
a few months ago and and and I had
not not the normal jury duty.
I forgot which one it's called.
But well, what we did was what we chose, whether cases got indicted or not.
So this is a very different than the normal jury duty.
And these undercover cops were good.
They were really good. Yeah.
Like they had this hot chick.
She was like super hot.
Like there's no way I would have knew she was a cop. Oh, yeah. No way.
That's that's adding a whole new dynamic to show she was super hot, looked real.
She she looked like about 20 and and when I was listening to her,
like she was in this major drug dealers apartment alone.
Like the dude left her there.
Like, yeah, so now it's different.
But back then they just tried so hard to blend in that you could see that.
Yeah, that guy's a cop.
What kind of shit were you doing for money?
Like, what were you doing for work? How were what were you doing?
I didn't have money. I was broke, man.
So that's why you didn't you didn't have to make money like in the gang.
You guys didn't do anything. Oh, no.
I I never I never got into the like the drug thing and the cell and stuff.
Never? No, never.
Really? I never I never even I never even did drugs back then.
They let you be in the gang without doing any of that stuff because I fight.
I fight or a fighter.
You know, if you if you just fuck people up and they want to keep you around.
If people had beef, like I wasn't I wasn't afraid to bust off, like, you know,
let's do it. So but I never I never got into that side, right?
And with the drug stuff, like I never for some reason, I just never I mean,
I didn't even drink alcohol until like, what about like jacking cars or anything?
Oh, yeah, everybody I got caught once for that shit.
That that shit sucked.
What do you mean? You had to get caught.
So so me so me and my friend, we jacked the car that that was not
so our projects was here.
It was in another complex, but it wasn't projects.
And my friend talked me into it.
Right. I didn't know nothing about doing this shit.
And I actually I didn't even jack the car.
I was just with him as as as a support, right?
And moral support, moral support, right?
But of course, he was trying to teach me like he like he, you know,
the old school way, you know, break the top part.
Like he told me like, you know, break the back.
No, every car used to have the little back window, break the back window,
get into the car.
So we got caught, man.
And I'll oh shit, that was not.
What kind of car was it?
It was it was what do you call it?
What is that? What is it?
What is it? What a Hyundai Hyundai Hyundai Hyundai Hyundai?
Yeah, it was a Hyundai and and I remember, man,
because it was so close to my fucking house, man.
And we got arrested and then my mom fucking got called on that shit.
And that and and that was where I was more worried about,
like fucking them call.
And I knew they were going to do because I was a minor.
He actually wasn't a minor.
OK, so he actually got arrested.
How old were you at the time?
I think at the time I was like 14.
Damn. Yeah.
But he was, I think, maybe 19.
So he got arrested.
I remember I remember he he had got arrested
and then they had to call my parents and my mom came and stepfather.
And it was fucking disaster from there.
But that was the one and only time that the one and only time one only time.
Yeah, after after that shit, I was like, fuck that, man.
It's too much work.
So what happened after you started hanging out with this dude in the pool?
Well, let's be he's paying you 20 bucks every time you play with him.
So so the 20 bucks was was a hustle for me.
So, you know, it was good.
It was how I could eat.
And I got $20 now, you know, every day, every week.
What was it like?
It was like maybe two or three times a week.
So it's getting like 60 bucks a week, man, to play fucking ping pong.
You know, so so, you know, I mean,
what I did do a lot when I was young, I did a lot of stealing,
like a lot of fucking stealing like for people's houses or from where?
You know, what'd you steal from?
I never broke in people's houses, but we would jack people up on the train.
Like, oh, raw people.
Yeah, we're going to train maybe like five or six of us deep on the train.
And there'll be someone sitting now.
And, you know, if five people come around, people can't see really what's
going on till it's too late.
So that I did a lot.
That I did.
And then just stealing shit from the stores and stuff like that, trying to see
how, how, how, how much what's the most expensive thing we could get out of this.
Yeah, like that.
But yeah.
But anyway, like we would you get shit and just to keep it or would you sell it
to make to sell it, sell it, sell it, keep it, but mostly sell it
to make some money and stuff like that.
But yeah, so this guy, you know, he he was paying me this $20.
And like I said before, he really didn't understand how serious
what I was into for him.
It was like I get the feeling for him.
It was like TV and he just kind of like, yeah, whatever.
So you're entertaining him.
One day I went to the club to go meet him and I had a 22 in my bag
and it kind of like fell out of the bag and right in front of him, which really
sucked. And then he looked at he looked at it.
Then he looked at me and the look on his face was just weird, man.
It was it was weird.
It was just like.
I think everything that's been talking about, I just came hit him right there.
And then he was like, and then before he said anything, I picked it up.
So I got to go because at that point, then I was a little worried because,
you know, you don't know, maybe he freaked out and called the police.
You don't know. And I don't want to stay around.
I never stay around to find out what goes on.
So I picked it up and say, yo, I'm out and I just left.
And the first thing I thought about was like, yo, there goes my twenty dollars.
I was like, yo, twenty dollars hustle is done for sure.
Then the guy. Yeah.
But I was going to say you were talking to him about doing all this stuff.
I mean, he knew that you were, you know, gun violence was in your life.
He didn't you didn't stop to think like, you know, maybe this guy understands this.
You know, most times, most times if people has never been in a situation,
how can someone understand a 13 year old kid could have guns?
Right? Yeah, if you've never been in a situation or you've never been around
kids that have that mentality, then there's no way that you can understand it.
Right. But if you look at history in some countries, kids are like 12.
Right. 10, 9. Right.
And they're been stolen and put in wars at nine, 10, 11, 12, 13.
Right. With big, I never had no big guns.
Like these kids walking on big guns.
All right. So like an automatic rifle.
Yes. So so it's like if if you don't know anyone in that lifestyle,
then it's very hard to comprehend, you know, for him, he was probably saying,
maybe he's having some problems, but it's not that serious.
I think one of the stats I read about New York's gun violence was that
or the like the murder, the gun murders or the gun crimes that happened in New York.
It's like 100 percent males under the age of 18.
Yeah. You know why, right?
You know why? Because I could be wrong.
I think it's pretty close to that.
You might be right. And I tell you why.
When you're young, you don't care.
When you're when you're young, you don't care.
Like, for example, plus you're stupid when you're young.
Yeah, you know, we're all fucking idiots when we're that young, right?
We don't know anything.
And then, you know, you you think at a young age,
like if if I shoot someone, you really don't understand
how it can affect the rest of your life.
You don't think about that when you're young.
You only think about that right now in this minute.
There's this instant.
No, no, no kid says, well, you know what?
If I shoot this guy today and if I get caught next week,
then maybe nobody thinks like that.
It's adrenaline. Like what? You mess with me?
And then eventually at the end, then you realize, like, oh, shit.
What? And it's and it's and it's the words of every kid.
What the fuck did I just do when you realize that it's real now
and now you're facing 15 years and you're only 12 or 10 or 13 or 14.
Whatever. And now you face 15 years.
The first thing is in your head is what that I fucking do.
Right. Yeah.
Why do you think it's like that?
Um, I don't know, man.
I mean, do you think guns are the problem?
I was having a conversation with somebody the other day
there about the gun problem.
And, you know, a lot of people think that if you try to, like,
put some sort of crazy restriction on guns or make it illegal to own guns,
that it's somehow going to solve the crime in the inner cities.
No, I don't think so, because guns guns are illegal.
They're technically illegal.
People will find the way to get them.
I think most by and large, they own them illegally.
Yeah. I think I think if they want to solve
the problem with guns, they need to make the law
a lot tougher, like if you kill someone, you get life.
Like never come out, right?
I mean, think about it.
If you if you're a kid and you shoot someone, right, you kill that person,
maybe you do maybe 15 years.
But still, if you're a kid at 15, you come out at 30.
You're still a young dude.
You did lose a lot of time, but you still can come out.
So, so, so I think if they made rules
where, like, if you kill someone,
you're doing life and you're never coming out ever.
There is no parole for it.
Then I think maybe people will think twice, like.
Or what about what about if there was, like, a more obvious,
clearer path for young kids in this, in those cities to to earn,
like, a substantial income or to make good money and not have to fall back on crime?
I mean, I mean, that too.
It's like, you know, a lot of people, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong,
but when you're coming up, you don't have many options.
Like you got gangs, you got whatever.
But if you had, like, OK, I have the option of a gang or I could go get this job
and make a pretty good fucking living to support myself.
Right. I'm sure a lot more people would choose that.
Oh, yeah, for sure, for sure.
But that's that's just never the point.
I mean, that that's just never what happens.
Yeah. It's always the latter.
It's always, you know, you know, the life is tough.
No, there's no money.
This is, you know, everything is just really hard.
And then it's also it's also the parents, right?
It's parents. Yeah, that's a big part of it.
So it's also the parents not sometimes the parents don't know better.
Yeah, right. Exactly.
So so a lot of times, too, the parents may come from that life as well.
Right. And now the kid sees it.
And yeah, so, I mean, but you're right, though, if there's it's
the kids need more opportunity.
Right. And they need to know that there's
more than one way to reach a goal.
I think now a lot of the kids that grow up in the projects, you know,
it's I want to be a rapper.
I want to be a basketball star or, you know, things that
year are possible, but are unlikely, right?
I mean, it's just a fact.
It's, you know, if everyone could be a basketball star and a rapper,
then it would be no problems, right?
But but I think that they need to get more opportunity.
They they need to have their mind opened up to different things around the world.
Not just like for me, it was just my projects.
I didn't know anything about the world.
I didn't know anything about. Yeah.
I didn't know anything about other boroughs.
I only knew my projects.
So I think that that would definitely help.
So after you dropped your gun in front of this guy and you took off,
what happened? Like you obviously stated, I mean, you obviously kept.
So I thought, I know, actually, my ping pong was going to end dead.
Oh, yeah. You had no plan to do it.
No, zero, because you didn't really care for it.
No. And plus, I was not going to go back there.
I'm going to go back there.
You're crazy. I don't know who else saw that.
So after two days later, the guy calls me says, hey, are we still playing?
And I was like, what?
So then I was a little worried in the beginning, but then it was $20.
The money overrules the worry.
So and you see that all the time with a lot of like drug dealers,
you know, stop right there.
But now you know what?
I'm going to go get that one more thing, that money and they boom, you get caught.
Yeah. So so so I was like, you know, it's $20, you know, it's worth the risk,
worth the risk. Let's go.
So so I went and I played the guy and and the thing that was very interesting.
He never gave me a look.
You know, I never got a lecture from this dude.
He never he never said like, yo, what are you doing?
You're going to ruin your life.
You shouldn't do that because then I would have just freaking just bounced.
And I'd like to hear you, but he never ever said anything like it almost
like it is weird. It was almost like it didn't happen.
He never talked about it.
He never mentioned anything.
He never said and you were you were afraid that he was going to bring it up.
I was always afraid he was going to bring it up.
I was waiting for him to bring it up.
Right. I was waiting, but it never came.
He never he never said he just played with me.
And then he says, hey, I want to invite you to my house.
I was like, what?
And and so he he exactly.
I was like, this is a guy talking about.
So so so he had a house in near Hunter Mountain, right?
And he had an apartment in the city.
And so he wanted to bring me to Hunter Mountain.
And I was like, I want to bring me to the mountains.
Let's go to the mountains.
Oh, dude, man.
So I was like, oh, man, this is crazy.
So I was like, all right, whatever, you know, I'm going to go check it out.
He says family lives there.
So I went up there and met his family.
And it's kind of weird, too, because I don't know
if he was trying to give me a sense of what family is,
because why would you bring the kid who just dropped the gun in front of you
to your family's house in the woods?
Like, what's wrong with you?
So how far how far away from was it from the city?
A hunter is like two and a half hours from from your and his house is in the woods.
It's legit in the woods.
Like like camping.
Like I was a little bit scared, man, when, when, when, when, when, when they
would all sleep because I'm up, I'm up and I'm looking out and you can't see shit.
It's black, black.
And you're used to the city.
And I'm used to the city.
It's black. No noise.
Maybe you see a bear and I was like, it's crazy, man.
And and so, um, yeah, what was the house like?
Was it big? Huge, huge.
But but his guy had money.
He had a lot of money.
But they lived a Quaker is I don't know if it's Quaker lifestyle.
Like they they had no TV.
They had no sugar, so no cookies, no candy, no nothing.
Just yeah, it was very strange, very, very strange.
But what was his dude's ethnicity?
What was he from?
I think I remember he was Israeli Israeli guy.
Yeah, OK.
But it was just weird, man.
And then, like, you know, he comes to me and says, hey,
I had went there and I went there again and then and then became fun.
Like, you know, it felt like a family.
I was playing with his kids and the wife and he had a ping-pong table in his house.
OK. Right.
And I was just cool.
So so then he says, hey, I see that you're interested in ping-pong
and I really want to help you.
So I want to pay for you to go to Germany.
And I was like, what?
Now, the only thing I knew about Germany was Hitler.
So I was like, I was like, I was like, this is just getting worse and worse
as it goes along Germany.
And but but still, I was always a person that I jumped on opportunity, right?
It didn't matter if it was good or bad.
If it's opportunity, I'm taking it, right?
Because I never know what was different.
Uncharted territory is scary.
Germany is a different country.
Yeah. Whoa, it's crazy.
And you're how old?
At the time, I was when he said that Germany is 14, 16, 18.
OK. Yeah.
So so I was like, whoa, man, really?
So yeah, man, the dude made it happen.
Did he had a connection and I didn't know any of this.
I know he had a connection to all this stuff.
He never told me any of this stuff.
And so he had a connection with a sports school in Germany and Hanover,
the town's called Hanover.
And in that school is where all the
top athletes of different sports live, right?
So their curriculum is mostly their sport and then the academics is secondary.
So this is like the top level.
So I went there and I lived with these kids
for like two months and learn ping pong.
And that's how I started.
That's really fucking cool how they make the people that are really good at
their sports primary thing, primary thing and academic secondary.
Yeah. When in America, they pretend like it's the other way around.
Exactly. They pretend here like academics comes first.
But really, we know the real deal.
Right. Exactly. Yeah.
But which is stupid that we do that.
It's crazy. It's crazy.
Because like, you know, like like all these kids, they they're like the top
in their in their city, whether it was
table tennis or tennis or soccer, they were the top in their city.
So they all go to the school.
They all live together in this school.
They all practice their sports.
They all eat together.
You know, it was really, it was really interesting.
What kind what kind of different sports were they there?
So if I remember correctly, there was a table tennis.
I think there was basketball.
There was football, soccer, not soccer.
And I think there was there was something else I can.
Oh, I think there was like a handball, but not the handball on the wall.
There's a different kind of handball that you throw into the net.
So so it's called handball and it's a mixture between.
I do not explain it.
It's a mixture between.
I don't know.
Basketball and dodgeball.
I don't know. It's a really I played it once, but it's a it's a really fun sport.
So it's so there's a net on both sides.
So picture like like a net, a soccer net, but not as big as a soccer net.
OK, much smaller, right?
And you hold the ball.
What's the ball? How big is the ball like a basketball?
Like a volleyball ball.
And so you you run around, you pass it, you pass it.
And then there are lines that you can't pass.
Yeah. And you have to throw the ball into the net.
It's called handball.
It's it's it's a European sport, but it's it's pretty cool.
So and they had that sport.
So all these kids will come and, you know, we all live together.
And yeah, it was pretty it was pretty crazy.
It for me, it was difficult in the first the first month was really hard for me
because, like I said before, I was an angry kid, so I didn't like anybody.
Or I didn't want to like anyone. Right.
I wanted to keep that, you know, you want to keep that hard.
Like, yeah, you know, I'm against it.
Don't come near me. You want to keep that that that that that hard face.
And the problem was everybody was just being so nice to me.
No one was giving me.
No one was giving me that that fuel.
No one. Everyone was like, oh, my God, you're from America.
Well, they wanted to get to know you.
Yeah, they wanted to get to know me.
They were really nice. And I didn't like that.
Like I hate your use of you're not used to letting your guard down.
No, no. And I didn't want to.
And they just kept and he just kept coming.
So so there's a saying is called killing you with kindness.
This is a real legit thing.
Like I got killed with kindness because they just kept coming.
They just kept coming and nobody would give me that.
Even when I got angry, they would say, oh, it's OK, man.
Don't worry.
And I didn't know how to react because I never normally in my situation.
I get angry. The person gives me that fuel makes me more angry.
Wow. And now, but this was opposite.
So for a while, man, I was like really confused.
I was mentally like, like just confused.
I didn't know what that was going on.
And then I'm eventually, like after like a month,
I started to just talk to myself and figure like, yo, why are you angry?
You're not in Brooklyn.
You're not in a gang.
You're totally far from your country.
You're in a totally different country where people genuinely want to be your friend.
Why are you angry?
And I started to think about it.
And then that's why that was my first start of change came right there.
It came then.
And then I started to open my eyes more and start to be more, more willing
to let my guard down to to.
Be friends with people.
Because the reason you don't want to let your guard down,
because you don't want you always think people can take advantage of you.
So if you look weak, then people take advantage of you.
Like I always tell people, don't mistake kindness for weakness.
Right. So that's the mentality that you have, that kindness equals weakness.
Right. So I didn't want to be kind because I didn't want to look weak.
But I didn't it didn't matter if I looked weak or not in front of them
because they weren't in that mindset.
Right. So it took me a while to figure it out.
And then when I did figure it out,
then I started to change and that was my change.
And that started to be more open to having different friends.
Then I made friends and started to get along with them.
And then I was like, yo, what the fuck was I doing all this time?
Yeah. So that was the start.
Wow. So it's like your brain was getting rewired almost.
Exactly. Because your whole life you've been used to living in the city,
living in Brooklyn, you're always trying to protect yourself
by keeping your guard up by being a tough guy. Right.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
But it was it was.
So how long were you at the school for?
So I was two months there.
And then I went from there.
I went another month to a different part of Germany to play with some pros.
Because this is way before you did any kind of competition.
Yeah, it's before competition.
This is just my learning. Right.
And then I played with some pros.
And the reason I played with the pros was because
a year before or maybe not a year.
Maybe yeah, maybe about a year before I went to go see a competition
to see what it looked like and and and where at it was in this competition.
I think it was U.S. Open and it might have been in Las Vegas.
Maybe. No, what's not there?
Maybe maybe because of the guy.
So the guy will help me.
So so he took me to see a competition.
And.
There was a players there who were like the best
of in the world.
And they would say, oh, that guy is Waldener.
He's the number one player in the world.
And so like I frankly didn't care who these guys were.
I just wanted to go up to him and talk to them.
Like, yo, I heard you're number one.
All right, they're looking at me like I'm stupid.
They're like, yeah, that's a rare.
That's a rare a trait that a lot of New Yorkers have.
Yeah. They can talk to anybody.
Talk to anybody.
You're number one.
You're like, yeah.
So so so I met some people there.
And they always said, if you're ever in Germany.
And you want to play, you should let us know.
So it just worked out like, holy shit, I'm in fucking Germany.
I know some people.
So I send, you know, I contacted a friend and I was like, yeah,
I'm in Germany, Hanover.
And he was like, oh, you should come to Frankfurt.
And I really had no more money left.
Like it was crazy.
And I did.
I went there.
I went to I went to to Frankfurt and hung out with a friend
who plays professional.
He played a German national team.
And then I went to then he brought me to a smaller city,
which is called Grenzau.
Actually, this this town, most Germans don't even know this town.
That's how small. It's really small.
It's called it's called Grenzau.
So so so the the town everyone would know is called Koblenz.
Koblenz is a big city.
Everyone knows that.
If you go up in the city, if you go up into the mountains,
there's another town called Hrgenshausen.
Hrgenshausen is a smaller town.
Then if you go within that town, it's another town called Grenzau.
And it's a very, very, very small town.
It's actually a table tennis town, which is crazy.
Everyone who lives there either plays, loves or likes table tennis.
Wow. Everyone.
So so it was really cool for me to play there because what's it called?
What's that little town?
It's called Grenzau.
Grenzau.
Yeah.
G-R-E-N-S-A-L.
No, I think G-R-E-N-S-A-U.
S-A-U.
Grenzau.
OK. And and it's a very interesting place
because everyone there knows table tennis.
So for me, it was really cool being a black dude from America
who's going to practice with his team because everyone knew already.
Everyone knew.
Oh, there's a black guy coming from America.
Was that super rare for them?
Yeah, there's no.
Is extremely how many other black table tennis players?
There was there is none at this time.
Zero. Wow.
Yeah. And it's very rare for them, too, because this team was the best team
in the world.
So so, for example, like, how can you say?
OK, let's take soccer like soccer, for example,
is the best team in table tennis as was Brazil to soccer.
So they play Champions League.
This team never lost.
So the fact that some American black guy was coming to practice,
everybody was like, who's this dude?
Like, is he good? Right.
And I sucked. I wasn't even good.
I would be really good.
So so I went there to practice, and that's why I spend the rest of my time
in Germany really had zero money.
Like, friends help help me out because the guys thing already ended, right?
So this was something now that was pretty much on my own.
Yeah, because because because that that that thing was already paid for
is for a certain amount of time.
And this was now me on my own.
So instead of coming back to the states, you just decided to I decided
to to go to Frickin to Grenzau to go.
How did you hear about Grenzau?
Oh, because I might tell you that from the US Open,
the guy that. Oh, OK, yeah.
He said that if I were if I'm in Germany.
So I met him and he brought me there.
And it was cool. It was crazy, man, because it was like the best players
in the fucking world on one team and it was nuts.
I watched him practice and they would play with me a little bit.
Of course, I wasn't that level.
But the coaches son.
Was good and I play a lot with the coaches son.
He also trained with the team.
He was an alternate for the team.
So I played with him a lot, OK, because he was the closest one
to what my level was after training at that school.
Right. The other guys were top, top, top, top players in the world.
So of course, I'm not that level.
But they would still play with me, you know, because, you know, for them,
it was interesting, some black American kid, you know, practicing with them
and they're the best of the best of the best.
Yeah. So so I stayed there for for about
another month and then I came back to America.
What did you do when you came back and where'd you go?
Oh, when I came back, I was just so into ping pong now.
I was like crazy about ping pong.
So so so I started to find the ping pong clubs and then as you keep in touch
with that dude, I kept in touch with the dude when I came back.
But then I lost I lost contact with him like years later.
There was some war in Israel some years ago, a long while ago.
And I lost contact with him because we we made this film, this documentary film.
That was that's really cool.
And we tried to find this guy because it would have been such a good
part of the documentary, right, you know, showing him what I've become
because of him.
So that would have been a really good part of the documentary.
And we could not find him.
We found the school.
We found we even found the coach.
We found the coach and we was trying to get information from the coach.
But the coach says that they don't keep the records that far back.
Wow. Yeah.
So so we never found we never found the guy still can't find a guy.
Maybe maybe she ever tried going back to his house.
I won't I won't remember where it's at.
Oh, I mean, I know where Hunter Mountain is at.
I mean, maybe, maybe, I don't know, maybe, maybe if I actually went there.
Did you imagine if you showed up on his doorstep?
I would have to get off.
I would have to get off the bus stop.
I remember when I went there to take a bus, I would give the bus stop
and I would walk.
But I mean, it would probably be really, really hard to do that.
You just went there and filmed it.
That would be crazy.
That would be nuts.
And then try trying to find his trying to find his guy's house.
Yeah. I mean, the documentary, you can make a whole separate documentary
about trying to find him. Yeah, yeah.
Just trying to find this fucker.
You're right. You're right.
All right. So you came back.
You didn't keep in touch with him.
Yes. But what did you do?
So you're obsessed with it?
Going everywhere. I became obsessed.
Like really, like it became like crack.
I just wanted to play ping pong.
You start hustling people.
The hustling came way later.
OK, after I got better.
But I just wanted to play a lot.
I just wanted to play.
So I started playing every tournament and and and and it was really crazy
because although, although I changed my thinking,
the hood did not come out of me.
No. Oh, no.
It probably never will.
It actually came a lot.
It came into ping pong a lot.
So I would be so I got into a lot of altercations.
Oh, shit. And ping pong.
Yeah. People people know me.
Dude, I saw I saw a video of you playing some some guy.
It was like a tournament or whatever.
And like at the end of the round,
he just basically like tossed the ball over with me.
Like you weren't ready for it.
And you're like, are you fucking kidding me?
Are you going to count that shit?
Oh, man. Yeah.
So that that's actually recent.
That. Oh, is it really?
Yeah, that's not that long.
That's I mean, when I say recent,
it's probably like four or five years ago.
OK. That I know what that is.
I remember exactly.
That was me playing against Chinese national team.
So I was playing against Chinese national team
and the umpire and the umpire was being a dick, like really.
Like I actually won that point and he said I did it.
And if you look at the camera, I served the ball and he went past him
and he said that I lost the point and I just flipped out and I got angry.
And and yeah, so so.
But then he also like nonchalantly like tossed the ball over the net.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I smashed it up into the air.
Yeah. Yeah.
I got a lot. You know what's funny?
That video, I got a lot of haters from that video said, oh, yeah.
Oh, I don't know why this guy represents America.
He's such a bad.
He's such a bad influence on people, blah, blah.
And I'm like, yo, you guys are idiots, man.
First of all, yeah, they don't know.
They don't know know what happened.
And it's more to that video that motherfucker cheated, dude.
Exactly. Yo, and it's more to that video, too.
They they also made a mistake
and they gave me a point that they should have gave to him.
Oh, really? The Chinese guy.
And I said, no, that's not the score.
And they said, no, it's the score.
I said, no, it's not the score.
And they said it is the score.
And I went, I took the guy's hands off the thing and changed the score myself.
And the crowd started clapping.
That's crazy. Yeah. I mean, I bet a lot.
I mean, I don't know.
But I'm sure they're in the sport of ping pong.
A lot of people from China aren't used to like raising their voice
and sticking up for themselves, you know, they're very like soft spoken.
No, no, no. I tell you another funny story about that.
So once I started playing pro, my first competition
was I had three was it?
Let me see the Chen Junji one. Yeah.
OK, so the first the first competition, pro competition I played was in Germany,
right, German or German open, and I got smoked, destroyed by people
that actually played with that smoke.
That was so nervous.
Then the next week I was in in Holland
and in Rotterdam.
So I remember exactly I played the first place and I play was from Russia.
Got smoked, smoked, no chance.
Second person I played was from England, got smoked, no chance.
The third place I played was from China.
Right. And I was playing this Chinese kid.
And I remember I will never forget his name.
His name is Chen Junji.
I can never forget his name because Chen Junji.
Because what a crazy name.
This this moment is actually what defined me in table tennis
was this particular moment here.
So I play this I'm playing this Chinese kid.
He's smoking me first game.
I think it was 11-1 second game, second game, 11-2.
I don't even I was getting killed.
I was getting killed, right?
Then my friend, my German friend, when I tell you about
we were always together.
So whenever I travel, we were always together.
I'm always with this dude.
And I was teaching him some hood stuff, right?
Because he's very, very German, proper German.
And I was like, no, man, you got to go.
No, we got to say, yo, what's up, man?
Yes. So I told him a lot of hood stuff, like, right?
So when I'm playing this dude, it was 3-0.
Chinese guy is 3-0, right?
He my my friend, he's coaching me close time out.
And he says, come on, Wally.
Book, book, book, book.
He said, book, book, like this, right?
So I said, OK, you know, he wants me to get pumped up, right?
Right, trying to get you fired up.
I made a serve and it aced the Chinese guy, right?
And when it aced him, I was like, yeah, baby, that's it.
Yo, the dude almost shit bad, bad.
Is this on video?
No, I wish I had this on video.
I wish I had it on video.
Yo, the dude, but I still have the article.
I still I think I still have the article that they wrote about this.
So the dude just because he's never seen that.
Nobody's ever seen that.
As a matter of fact, nobody didn't even know who I was.
Nobody's never seen this.
I started bringing the gangster into Ping-Pong.
I started getting real gangster with it, real gangster. Wow.
Then I took a game of him, which is it doesn't even make sense.
Like it's it's almost like some junior high school kid
freaking taking a game of LeBron in basketball.
Some junior high school kid, like no chance is negative.
I take a game off this dude, right?
Then we played again, right?
Actually, he was up to zero.
Then then we played again.
He won won the next game very close.
Then that was a three, three, one is four out of seven.
I won the next game.
So I won the fifth game, which is crazy.
And everybody's looking at because now I'm really pumped out.
I'm like, that's it, baby. Take him down.
Take him down. This boy's got no chance.
I'm talking mad.
You were probably psyching in the fuck out.
Yo, I had him psyched out like crazy.
You were fucking his head and it was three, two, nine.
So at this time, the scores go to 11.
I mean, 11 points.
So three, two, nine, six for me.
So I just need one more.
I need one more one more game.
And it's three, three against Chinese national team,
the best in the world, right?
So three, two, nine, six, and I'm making noise.
This dude's shit in his pants the whole time.
He's like scared to death
because no one's never seen anyone be gangster with it.
Right. Ping-pong's more like, yeah.
Choo.
That's it. That's it.
No, nobody gets crazy.
I was getting crazy. Come on, baby.
Like it's almost like I was playing football or basketball.
But I don't know if that's hilarious.
And it was nine, six.
And then the stupid thing I did was believe that I could win.
And that's where you get screwed up.
So I believe what do you mean?
The stupid thing you did was believe that you could win.
Tell you, because I started to believe I could win.
I said, OK, let me calm down and finish this match.
Who's the wrong freaking thing to do?
I said, just kept being crazy and kept being me.
And maybe maybe I would have beat him.
But because I calmed down because I really believed I could win
when I really had no chance to beat this dude.
But I started to believe I could win.
Then I calmed down and I started to try to focus.
And then the guy came back and won the match, right?
And and before there's one part I forgot to say.
So when I made the score, when the score was nine,
so what happened was the score was nine, six, three, two for him.
And the coach called a timeout at nine, six,
because if I win this game, it's three, three.
I think it's going to be more nervous in the last game.
The coach changed coach called timeout
and the Chinese could start yelling at him.
Right. And my German friend speaks Chinese.
And and what the coach was saying was like,
I never saw this guy anywhere in my life because nobody knew me.
I never saw this guy.
If you lose to this guy, you would never play this country again.
Oh, my God.
But it's real.
China does not mess around. Oh, no.
If you lose to me, that's it.
Your career is finished.
And and the guy came back and I lost eleven nine.
It was another point.
But also I calmed down and I thought I could win when I really could it.
And I lost. But well, is it the fact that you thought you could win?
I mean, I think it might have been the fact that you were maybe overthinking it.
Well, more that I wasn't giving him the respect
that he should get, right?
But that's the thing.
You shouldn't give him his respect.
Then you're going to you. Yeah, you shouldn't.
Right. But once you started to.
But once you start to give him the respect,
you know, because now I'm saying, OK, I can beat this guy.
That's that's before I didn't care. Right.
Now I'm saying I can beat this guy. OK, focus, focus.
You can win this match.
And I changed what I was doing.
Yes, working and then I lost.
And but that was the start of everyone in the world knowing who I was.
Every top player in the world knew this crazy guy from New York City
who's yelling all over the place.
And everyone knew me and they wrote an article about what's more important,
skill or mental, right?
Because I was beating them in the mental in the mental space.
Because this guy obviously had the skill.
Oh, yeah, I had no chance.
Zero chance, zero chance.
But mentally, I got him.
So, yeah, that's a pretty funny story that I remember.
Bro, that's incredible.
So you started to create your own brand.
Yeah, like you were like like the Dennis Rodman of Ping Pong.
Yes, yes, yes, because, you know,
as I was playing Pro Tour, like, like, like, I wasn't the best at all.
I wasn't even close to the best, you know.
And and and in the beginning, I was getting killed by everyone.
I was getting destroyed.
Like when I tell you, I was getting murdered.
It was like, you know, why are you doing this?
Right. And but I love the sport so much.
I just needed to reevaluate my goals.
Like my goals were totally wrong.
My goals were like, I'm going to be the best.
I'm going to beat everyone. No, you're not.
You started this sport at 18 and you're not going to be the best.
You got to have respect for the guy who started at three and five.
Right. And how many of those guys are there?
So the odds of you being the best are pretty much unlikely.
Right. You can be the best in America, maybe, you know, but in the world,
it's not going to happen.
So so so I started to evaluate the goals of how
what I'm going to do in this sport, because everybody's killing me.
And then I just made smaller goals.
I said, OK, you know what?
I'm not going to try to beat these guys anymore.
I'm going to try to get five points every game.
First, let me get five points, one game.
So I get five points. I can do that. Cool.
All right. Let me get five points every game.
So even if I lose four, zero, I get five points.
Right. And so it would be funny, right?
Because everybody would watch me because, you know, I was that hip hop
gangster guy that plays ping pong and everybody knew everybody watched my match.
So they would see. Right.
This is funny. I would lose four, zero.
And I'll go, yeah, baby, that's it.
Then it was wrong with this dude.
He just lost. But I didn't lose.
I won because in my mind, I said I want to get five points
and I made my five points every game.
What is a point? How do you get one point?
So whoever misses.
So if you make it, if you make it miss, you get a point.
You get a point. OK.
So so my thing was if I can get five points out of 11, I win.
So let's explain the basic rules of it.
So you play till you play 11, the first person with 11 points wins.
And you play you play seven games, four out of seven in pro tour.
So the best the person who wins four out of seven wins the match.
Yeah. And it's two serves a piece.
And so, you know, before I was getting killed, 11, 11, two.
So once I started getting five points, I said, OK, if I if I get
and I made myself believe this, if you get five points in every game,
you won this match, really, I believed it.
So I would get five points every game.
I would lose four, zero.
And I'll go, yeah, baby, that's it.
And people will look at me as wrong as fucking do.
Right. He just lost. Right.
I didn't lose. I won because I made a goal.
Because you're competing yourself. Exactly.
So that's how I got better.
I started competing against myself. OK.
Now I made five points. OK.
Let me take one game out of four.
If I take one game, I win.
And I put it in my head. If I take one game, I win.
And then what's wrong with this?
And then I started to notice that, like.
The kind of character that I had was very interesting for media in the sport,
because they never seen a sport.
They didn't see the ball. Hip-hop guy play ping-pong.
So I started getting all these interviews and and and I would lose.
And they would interview me and not the winner.
And it was crazy. I was like, well, what's going on?
To the point where where sometimes they started
giving me too many matches on the TV table.
And I remember one time in China, I complained about it.
I said, hey, can you not put me on the TV table?
Like, like, what's the TV table?
So, so, for example, let's let's say in a pro tour.
A pro tour can have anywhere from like eight to twelve tables, right?
But not every table has a TV camera.
So usually two tables have table one and table two will always have that TV
camera there.
All the other matches won't may not have a TV camera.
They they may have they they may be filmed.
But it wouldn't stream to TV, only these two tables.
So a lot of players, they want to be on the TV table.
I never wanted to be on the TV table.
I really hated the TV table because I'm probably one of the worst players
in the pro tour. Why do I want to be on the TV table?
I want to be in like the table that's like in the corner, you know, away.
But the people wanted to see you. Yes.
So so the I remember one time I was in China
and and and I had two matches on the TV table, which is crazy pros.
The pros, people even get two matches on the TV.
And this is in preliminary rounds.
It's not even the main draw.
And I told myself, listen, I just play on the TV table.
Can you please take my next match off the TV table?
And this is something that every player wants.
Every player wants to be on the TV table.
I didn't want it. And I saw my skin there and the Chinese guy goes, no, Wally.
No, you are good for TV.
I was like, what?
I said, yo, getting killed on TV is not good for me.
It's like, no, it's OK.
Yeah. So and then I realized, like, yo, people, people,
they don't care about your skill level.
You know, I bought something different.
I bought this coolness, you know, I bought this, this hip hop style
and and and and, you know, this, this, this, this craziness to the sport.
You were fascinating to them.
Yeah, you know, do you know what the majority of the audience
who watches Ping Pong is or back then what it was?
I mean, what kind of people watch Ping Pong matches?
What do you mean, what kind of people?
I mean, like what?
Because I don't know anybody who watches Ping Pong.
Exactly.
I mean, is it all is it all Chinese people who watch Chinese
televised or it's it's it's anyone who plays.
OK, so OK, so that's it.
Which makes me it's I'm trying to like dissect, you know,
who the people were that were so interested in you and why why.
Oh, the actual the actual people who are at the tournament
itself, like the players.
So the TV table, was it being broadcasted?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, like in China, in China, in China,
in China, you'll you'll walk by and you'll see it on TV.
And everybody in China just loves they love Ping Pong. OK.
I mean, now they love more basketball.
But well, yeah, if you walk by, like you'll just see it.
Isn't that crazy to see it? Yeah.
So it was it was it was crazy, man.
It was you were like a Chinese celebrity.
Yeah. And then I really and then when I went to Japan,
it was the same thing.
And then everywhere I went, I just started noticing that
they weren't going to interview me, the guy who's losing.
What's going on?
And then and then I realized I said I realized what my my my goal
or what I was supposed to do in this sport.
I was supposed to make it cool.
I wasn't supposed to be the best player in the world.
I was supposed to make it cool.
And that's what I did.
Then once I realized that, that's OK.
Then I started playing better
because now I had less pressure.
So I would go in there, you know, make these crazy points
and they go, that's it, baby.
Or if or if I was in China, you know, I play in Chinese
in China, and I'll go, child, which means, you know, like,
like the actual meaning means add fuel to the fire.
But it means fight.
But I know I would say in China
because Chinese would see a black dude say
and they're like, oh, my God, who's that?
And then even if I lost, it didn't matter, right?
It didn't matter because I was cool.
And yeah. Yeah.
And yeah. And that and that's how it.
And that's how my whole table tennis career worked out.
I mean, that's how I started to get sponsored.
I mean, even before I started playing the pro,
I made a video game with Rockstar Games.
So the name of the game is called Rockstar Presents Table Tennis.
It's the only.
Look at his face.
It's it's the only non-violent game
that Rockstar has ever made.
What? Yeah.
When did it come out?
2006, 2006, 2007.
It's the only game that Rockstar made that's non-violent.
It's called Rockstar Presents Table Tennis.
And the way I got to pull that shit up, Aiden, that's your cue, man.
The way I got to make this game was that I was at a tournament,
a local tournament in Chinatown, and I was playing kid from China,
who just came from China and and we were fighting out.
And the kid was like, I was like, that's it, baby.
Come on. Come on. He's going down.
He's going. I was talking mad trash.
And they were scouting, actually.
They were Rockstar Games with scouting.
And I know Rockstar Games because I'm a big fan of Grand Theft Auto.
Right.
So they were scouting.
And then they came up to me and they said, hey, we love your energy.
We love the character you put out.
They were like, do you know Rockstar Games?
Like, hell, yeah, I know Rockstar Games.
Crazy Grand Theft Auto where I play every one.
And they were like, well, we want to make we're interested
in making a table tennis game.
I was like, what is like, are you will you be interested?
Hell, yeah. I wasn't even thinking about money.
I was like, I think I'm not like, yeah, for sure.
Definitely, definitely, definitely.
So hell, yeah, I made this game with them.
The game one best sports game of the year.
It beat Madden.
He beat NBA live every game.
It destroyed every game because it was it was just a fun game that you could.
It was easy to play, but hard to master.
But it was an easy game.
You can get up and play it.
And so and we marketed this game like all over the place.
Like I was in Japan, like in this crazy apartment having parties
with different like every one that we hip hop night or tech night.
And they would come to play the game and I would talk with them and sign autographs.
No way. And that's how I started playing pro tour.
So we skipped a lot of it.
But that's how I started playing pro tour because after I told Rockstar,
I said, hey, listen, I want to play pro.
So can you guys sponsor me?
And they were like, yeah.
And I was like, all right.
So I came up with a plan of how much money I needed.
Boom, gave it to them and they agreed to kind of check.
Yep. And that's how I played.
And that's how I played pro.
Although because you got to pay money to play all over the world.
I went to every major country in the world to play on Rockstar money.
Wow, that's fucking dope, dude.
What is this? There's screenshots from it.
You can't find no video video. Look at that.
That is so cool. Here we go.
I got the game in my house still.
Fine wallet. Did they make you your own character?
No. What?
And you know what? And it's actually my fault.
I should have pushed for it.
The reason why they didn't make my character is because they thought
that I would charge to have me.
But I wouldn't. I would have let them do it for free
because there's a black dude there.
Yeah, it could have been me.
They probably based him off of you, maybe.
Well, actually, every character is based off my motion.
Oh, really?
Every character.
Did they dress you up in one of those suits?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No way.
The motion capture suit?
Yeah, yeah, I wore that.
And listen, it's one of the hardest things.
Motion capture is insanely difficult.
It is crazy.
It is it is just nuts because you have to do every possible motion
that's possible in a game that may not be possible in real life.
So, for example, if if I make a stroke, this works, this works.
This is not something we do, but you have to do it anyway
because you have to cover every possible spectrum
because even if it works or doesn't work.
Yes, because of the video game.
And then. Oh, shit.
Here's the video. There you go.
Oh, look at this. It's nuts.
This game looks pretty. Yeah, it is.
For me, it's the most closest even till today.
There's there's you can tell it's Rockstar, too,
just the way the art the art looks.
It looks like that grand theft auto.
It's crazy. To it.
Really, really nuts.
Damn, that's fucking cool.
Yeah, so, I mean, it was it was it was really good time.
And and because of them, I was able to play all over the world.
That's so fucking cool, man.
So the motion, how long did it take for you to do all that motion capture shit?
That was a while.
That was a while. It was really difficult,
because, like I said, you have to cover every every
every possible movement has to be covered for the video game.
So so with somebody there, like directing everything, they direct you.
It's really hard, because so, for example, let's say
the movement movement, if you start like this,
you have to end like this, or you got to do it over.
So if I start with this foot in front and this foot back.
So let's say I need to go there.
I go one, two, I got to come back.
I got to make sure I end like this.
If I end like this, we got to do it over.
So I have to go this way, this way, this way, this way, this way.
Wow.
And then lunges, like making like your lunges.
Yeah, you know, every possible thing you have to do it
so they can record it.
Yes. So it was it was definitely not easy.
How long did it take?
I don't remember.
It was I think maybe I don't remember.
Maybe it was a week. I don't remember.
But it was multiple shoots.
It was really hard.
It was it was like physically hard.
Wow, because because you have to, like I said,
you have to cover every possible motion.
Yeah, so it was fun.
And because of them, you know, I've got to play, you know,
pro tour all over the world, man.
I was watching like a behind the scenes clip
a behind the scenes clip from the Forrest Gump movie
when they were showing how Tom Hanks would play the do the ping pong scene.
And he actually just had to like fake the movement, the movements.
And they they like the CGI, the CGI, the ball.
It's almost like the same thing with the Bruce Lee thing.
You ever seen the Bruce Lee thing?
No, you never seen the Bruce Lee thing.
What what thing? Oh, my God.
You ever seen the Bruce Lee thing?
What do you what thing are you talking about?
Tell him to pull it up. Pull up.
Put Bruce Lee ping pong.
You never seen this? I don't think so.
OK, I'm not going to say anything.
Shit. Watch this.
I'm not going to say anything or watch it.
I get now.
When I get questions,
I get thousands and thousands and thousands on questions
on this video really every time.
Watch when you see it.
Yeah, yeah, this, this, watch this, watch this.
Full screen it. Give me give us audio.
Thousands of questions on this every time.
This is the most question I get about this video.
What the.
Are you watching this? It's got to be fake.
It is. But it's a really.
That is pretty fucking.
Oh, he's using he's using numb chops.
It's a really good CGI.
Oh, my God, with the shaky camera.
Holy shit.
Oh, my God, that's fucking amazing.
Yo, it's nuts.
So I guess what is this for?
I don't know. I've seen this video.
I get I get mail on this all the time.
Like people always ask me.
They're asking if it's real. Is it real? Yeah.
That's some really good fucking CGI work.
Very good, especially with the shaky camera.
Look at that.
I mean, that shaky camera makes it look so legit.
Could you imagine, dude?
It's crazy.
Now, now, now here's the thing.
A lot of people think it's real.
It's commercial for a phone.
Oh, there you go.
A lot of people think it's real.
But because I play, I know it's not real, right?
Because a nunchuck is is is is a.
It's circular, circular.
And there's no way he'd be able to hit that ball so precise.
If it was flat, maybe it's possible, but it's totally impossible.
And then if you look at the trajectory of how he hits,
that ball would not go straight.
It would actually go up.
So I know this, but a lot of people don't.
Like people have argued with me before and I'm like,
that they think it's real. Yeah, they think it's real.
I'm like, it's not real.
That's a pretty fucking sick video.
It's a good CG. That is a really good CGI.
Very, very good one. Very good.
Holy crap, bro.
So fucking Rockstar sponsored you to go all over the world.
Now you're now you're pro.
Yeah. You're Rockstar Pro.
They're paying you.
Yeah, I had Rockstar gear.
I think I may still have one short left in the house.
I gave a lot of it away.
Like as I was traveling through the world
and and and going to these different countries,
you know, one thing that you can give to fans is your shirt,
like giving a shirt with your name on it.
Like fans, fans want this stuff.
Yeah. So so I like I would give away my Rockstar shirts
and give the hell yeah stuff away to fans and stuff like that.
Yeah. So what happened when you got when you turned pro?
Did you start winning?
No, I was still getting my ass kicked.
You're still getting your ass kicked, but you're just doing it
because everyone loved you and wanted to see you.
But now is more doing it
because my goal was to make the sport popular and make it cool.
Yeah, I want to make the sport cool
because when I first came in, it wasn't cool.
It definitely wasn't cool.
It was it was just like, I don't know.
I mean, it wasn't cool at all.
Actually, it wasn't.
It was like tennis was a long, long, long time ago.
Before everyone cool came and played, right?
It was it was like this quiet
and you got to be very sportsman like and very quiet.
And no, I was like like golf. Yes. Yes.
It was extreme. It was very golf like.
I mean, look, look what happened.
Just was it not.
It was like maybe two Olympics ago.
One of the Chinese guys won and he had some problem with the coach.
The coach liked a particular player, right?
And when that happens, it makes it really intense.
He beat that particular player
and he and he got such such a sense of accomplishment,
especially when the coach is against you
and you beat the coach's favorite player in the Olympics, right?
Now you're like, ah, so so he did that.
He went, ah, he he ripped off his shirt.
He kicked the barrier and the barriers are made out of paper, right?
It's no money loss.
Do you know that they find him and took all his winnings away
because of that because of that?
Because he showed emotion.
So that's the problem with the sport.
They don't like emotion. No, he showed emotion.
And they they they they like a Chinese culture thing.
Or do you think it's the sport?
No, I think it's the sport. Really?
Yeah, because I mean, if you look at Chinese fighters,
they show emotion, a lot of emotion.
But but I mean, it was it was crazy.
And and and they were saying it's not sportsman like Chinese fighters.
Do you? Yeah, like what what fighters specifically?
You ever see MMA fighters?
I yeah, but which one I've never seen.
I don't think I've ever seen it.
Jean-Wlie Jean-Wlie is a champion.
Is he really? I don't know.
I don't know fucking shit about Jean-Wlie.
She's a beast, man. Oh, really?
Oh, my God, this girl is crazy.
I would never fight this girl ever.
I'd run away from I know.
I wouldn't fight the most I know about MMA is Jake Paul.
That's not even fucking MMA.
That's boxing, bro.
There you go. That says it all for me.
That guy, that guy's a funny dude.
You watch the fight, right?
You're talking about before we started.
Oh, my God. Listen, that that whole broadcast was just a shit show.
It's crazy.
But I mean, they did for the first time doing it.
I mean, didn't Jake Paul put that whole thing together?
Yeah. For some kid, for some 25 year old kid to put together.
I mean, it's he didn't do bad for his first time.
Did you see he came out in the weigh-in with a robot?
That was fucking crazy.
I was like, who comes out with a and his walk out to the ring?
You had a big robot. Yeah, the mascot.
Yeah. But yeah, he's he's I mean, he's definitely I think, you know what?
I think I think he knows what he's doing.
Yeah, he totally. I think I think.
He's doing this to make his name bigger.
Of course, he's smart.
He's you know what? If you think about it now, now, now that I'm thinking about it,
he's kind of doing what I was doing.
He he doesn't need to fight the best fighter for what?
Why fight the best fight when I could be knocking out these these these fools?
Yeah. And it looks good.
I mean, think of the audience that he's bringing to boxing.
It's crazy.
He's bringing this whole young new demographic,
this whole demographic of kids that watch YouTube to boxing.
And did you notice something?
I bet you there's something that you didn't realize.
He made that fight exactly the same time as Fight Night, which is UFC.
Did he really? There was a UFC fight the same time?
The finals in that was at the same because Dana White bet a million bucks that he lose.
He don't like Dana White.
Hell, no, he doesn't like Dana White.
Dana White doesn't like him.
That's why he did it. He put it.
So so so when I was trying to watch it, I had I had my UFC fight on
because I wanted to watch the Whitaker fight, which is huge and gas to them.
And then I had his fight on the corner of the TV,
watch China, watch that at the same time. Yeah, yeah.
So so he's he's he's he's definitely smart.
He's he's definitely he definitely knows what he's doing.
I don't think he's going to fight any real fighter who can strike
because once he loses, that's it.
Who would be who do you think would be a real fighter on his level
that he could fight next, that he would that would be a fair match?
He should fight with the girls, man.
Seriously, he's not going to do that, right?
You should do that. That would be cool.
That would be cool.
Like, who is a legitimate?
Who do you think would be a legitimate contender for him?
Who's a boxer? Who do you think? Who do you?
Boxing? I don't know any boxers.
You know any boxers. I just know mostly.
You know, his brother is going to fight Floyd Mayweather.
Yeah, he's going to get.
But, you know, see, I wouldn't I would fight Floyd Mayweather
because he's a little guy.
Well, no, because I know Floyd Mayweather is not going to freaking try to put my head.
He's not going to kill you.
He's not going to put my teeth through my, you know, Floyd Mayweather.
So he did his last fight.
Yeah. Right.
You see what he did to the Japanese dude in Japan?
You ever seen that one? No.
Oh, that one's even more funny.
That was more funny.
He kind of just he's the he's the he's the best defensive boxer.
That's what his thing is.
He drags you into deep water until you run out of gas.
And plus he'll toy with you.
He's not going to try to he's not going to try to hurt you.
I mean, he did to Conor McGregor, too.
Kind of like toyed with him a little bit, you know, defense, defense, hit him a little bit.
So so Paul Paul is
what's his name again, Jake, Jake Paul, Jake or Logan Paul.
Logan Paul is going to fight Floyd.
Logan Paul is going to be fine.
He's not going to get hurt.
He's not going to get hurt.
So he's going to be like that's a fun fight.
He's going to make a lot of money.
It's going to be it's going to be a fun publicity tour.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, yeah.
And Mayweather loves money.
So hell, yeah, he loves money.
Hell, yeah, that publicity tour for the Conor versus Mayweather.
Shit, that was that was crazy.
That was hard to not want.
I mean, that was fucking so entertaining.
That was really good.
And every single event they did.
And Conor did good, man.
Conor. Oh, he's a funny motherfucker, dude.
Yo, so I thought I thought
the original fight was going to be Conor,
but I think Conor doesn't want to even bother with it.
I think. Oh, you mean against Jake?
Yeah, he was calling out his wife and say he was calling out hardcore.
But I think Conor is like, I need more money than that, buddy.
So I think Conor thinks he's on a whole other level.
Yeah, which he is.
But, you know, he could probably he could make a lot of money by doing it.
But if Conor lost, it would make him look so much worse.
I think Conor would be a legitimate fighting contender for Jake Paul,
honestly, because Conor is not a traditional boxer. Right. Right.
He's an MMA fighter, but I think Jake Paul has no chance against boxing.
Conor again. Yeah. Really?
I tell you why, because Conor doesn't fight like a box.
He he he's kind of a really good striker,
but his striking style is not it's not normal.
I think Jake Paul will.
Well, yeah, I think no, no chance.
Even Mayweather.
Listen, even Mayweather had a little problem in the beginning with him,
because Conor just has a weird the way he puts his guard,
the way his hands are like here, like he keeps a hand out here.
And yeah, like the snow, you have to watch this hand,
but you have to watch this one at the same time.
Like I think Jake Paul had a hard time only because the style is going to be
it's really tricky.
Like even Mayweather got tagged a couple of times, man.
He did a lot of times because of that style is just so weird, man.
Like, you don't know where those punches are coming from.
But he says Nate Diaz.
He called out Nate Diaz.
So Nate Diaz will whoop his ass.
I want to see this.
I want to see this is a fucking big, lanky guy.
Yeah, yeah.
But Nate Diaz is a jiu-jitsu guy.
So I don't know. Right.
But he also can strike.
I mean, it makes it.
I mean, yeah, he is it.
Yeah, right.
When you said you just he's like a ground guy guy, it makes it.
But it makes it it makes it interesting when you're a wrestler or
a jiu-jitsu guy and then you're forced to only box.
I think mentally that makes it hard for you to because you, you know,
as a professional athlete, you train every day and things become natural.
So when A happens, B is automatic.
When C happens, D is automatic.
Now that you're in this ring, now you have to think.
I think you have to overthink now because you know you want to grab them,
but you can't grab them because it's boxing, so don't grab.
Right.
So, so I think that's what makes it difficult for a lot of these other
fighters when they're doing this because they, your, your brain,
your body wants to do one thing natural, want to grab.
Like you see when Connor, Connor kept trying to hit him in the back of the head.
Oh, he started like hammer punching.
Yeah, you saw that, he was like, no, you can't do that.
Can't do that shit, boy.
The hammer punches was funny, man.
You can't try the hammer punches, you know, you can't do that.
So I think that makes it a little difficult for them.
But yeah, for sure.
I want to see how far Jake Paul is going to take.
But it is kind of like the thing is, I mean, I've had a lot,
a couple of arguments with friends about, you know, how legit Jake and Logan
are compared to other boxers.
And you know, some people would be like, oh, it's just discrediting the sport.
Or it's just making it, it's, it's, it's, it's disrespecting the sport
and the history of boxing.
I don't think it's disrespecting the sport.
I mean, the guy can box, you can fight.
It's not like, it's not like, it's not like.
And what's it all, it's what's, I mean, what's the point of it?
The point is to get people to watch it and to, and to, and to make money.
Right.
Yeah, yeah, no, no, no.
He can, he, the dude can fight.
Don't, don't, don't get me wrong.
They can fight and they can sell it.
They can sell a fight.
Listen, if you knock somebody out for 15 minutes with a glove on, then you can
fight, then you've got some power.
I don't care who it is.
I mean, if you, when he knocked out Nate, Nate Robinson, that's 15 minutes.
Dude was out.
And this is a professional, professional athlete.
What do you mean he was out?
He was out for 15 minutes.
I think it was like 15 minutes.
Like it was the last number, exact number you should check.
But I think it was 15 minutes.
He was out, out.
Like people were worried.
That's scary.
Yeah.
He hit him hard and it was like, it didn't even look like a punch either.
It was like a, like a little, like a short half punch, like undercut, like under.
This power, power and it didn't even look like that thing could have knocked him out.
And the Ben Asker punch was hilarious.
Oh my God, bro.
He hit the ground like a fucking ton of bricks.
That was really, really hard too.
But yeah.
But he got up and he was ready to go back at it.
Yeah.
I think they should have let him fight.
I think she let him fight too.
I think she let him fight.
Cause he's an MMA fighter.
He's used to taking that.
He's used to getting his head punched.
He's just getting his head punched, yeah.
God damn man.
It's fun to watch.
It's super entertaining.
I don't know anything about it, but I know I love to watch.
That's all I need.
Yeah.
I want to see how far, how far he's going to be able to take it.
I mean, I don't know, I don't know.
Until someone.
So how did you end up on Steve Harvey's TV show?
Oh, the Steve Harvey show.
So I was doing a charity in Virginia Beach called Ping Pong
for Poverty.
So I like to do a lot of different charities that
involve Ping Pong.
And I did a TV piece there.
And they talked about my life story and stuff like that.
And then I guess some of the executives on Steve Harvey's
show saw it and they called me and they said,
hey, can you come down to Chicago?
So two days later, I went to Chicago to film the Steve
Harvey show.
Really?
Yeah.
So that was cool.
That's cool.
And you fucking beat him with using an iPhone as your paddle.
That's my thing, man.
I like to beat people with my iPhone 6.
I have a phone just for playing Ping Pong.
Can you use that one right there?
This one I will never use.
This is my new phone.
It's OK.
But I have my iPhone 6.
Why is the iPhone 6 good for it?
I'll tell you.
So the iPhone 6 is one of the lighter iPhone models.
Like this is heavy.
The XR is heavy.
Which model is that?
This is the 12 Pro.
That's cool.
It's like square.
Square.
I don't even think mine's like that.
I think I'm going to have an older one.
It's like round.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this is the newer one.
They went back to that old style.
Remember 4S style?
Yeah.
And so these phones are heavy.
So I can't play with them.
But the iPhone 6 is really light.
It hits well.
I trust me, I've tried a lot of phones.
And so now what I do is I just order iPhone 6s.
I just find them wherever they are and just keep them.
Because they break.
And I play with it.
But it's fun.
I like challenging people with my phone.
The fun thing I do.
That's wild, man.
So do you still compete at all?
Do you still do any tournaments?
Now it's not really competing.
Now I had surgery like two years ago on my hip.
So now I'm just, I play another sport called paddle tennis.
I don't know if you've heard of it.
So I play pro.
I'm actually a pro paddle tennis player.
And so paddle tennis is tennis.
But it's on a smaller tennis court.
It's not pickleball.
I repeat.
It's not pickleball.
I can't stand pickleball.
I never fucking heard of pickleball.
You live in Florida.
Pickleball is like the biggest sport.
Aiden, have you ever heard of pickleball?
Really?
Oh my god.
Oh, I know what you're talking about.
I saw some guys playing that the other weekend.
I can't stand that sport.
But that sport is the biggest growing sport in America
right now.
Is it really?
Pickleball, yeah.
It's literally everywhere.
But paddle tennis is closer to tennis.
It's the same size, similar size court as a pickleball court.
Except we use a tennis ball.
We use a special paddle that's made for paddle tennis.
So it's really fast.
It's sometimes faster than tennis.
Because the court's smaller, but the speed is similar.
So for example, if you're at the net and I'm maybe a little bit
from the net, I might hit the ball right at you, like 100
miles an hour, bam, right at you.
And that's what I do, like I hit people with the ball.
And so it's a very quick sport.
It's almost like playing ping pong, but it's tennis really fast.
And so it's really big in the West Coast.
So that's what you're doing now.
So I play a lot of paddle tennis now.
I still play ping pong too.
We have the club, so I'm at the club playing ping pong.
But I don't play any tournaments anymore.
I haven't played US tournaments since I played pro.
And then now I'm just playing more for fun.
I forgot to ask you this, but at what point in your career
did you end up going to North Korea?
Oh, the North Korea.
So the North Korea was one of the craziest things I did.
Was this after Rockstar?
This is way after Rockstar.
This is actually recent.
North Korea is maybe five years ago.
Five or six, five years ago.
So North Korea is after Steve Harvey.
Because I remember I was like, I gotta do something big this year.
And I was looking in the ITTF, which is International Table
Tennis Federation website.
They have all the pro-tour tournaments.
And then I saw North Korea.
I was like, oh my god, I got to go to North Korea.
And Dennis Rodman, I just came back from North Korea.
Oh, shit.
And I was like, yo, I got to go freaking North Korea.
I got to go to North Korea.
So I call my friends all around the world.
I said, hey, you guys want to play a tournament in North Korea?
We can go do a diplomacy for world peace.
So historical moment in America, 1971.
America established relations with China through Ping Pong
called the Ping Pong Diplomacy.
Hence, you got the movie Forrest Gump.
So I wanted to do my own Ping Pong Diplomacy.
I wanted to do my own to North Korea.
Because at the time, North Korea was really, really against
America.
And I figured Dennis Rodman went there.
He didn't really do much there.
I definitely can go and do something.
So I saw the tournament.
And I called people say, hey, let's go.
Everybody was like, no, you're crazy.
I'm not going to North Korea.
You're going to die there.
People are like, you're going to die.
You're not going to come back.
It was all kinds of crazy.
So nobody wanted to go.
Then I tried people from the US team.
Let's go.
Nobody wanted to go.
So I was like, all right, I'll go by myself.
So I called the US team up and said, hey, can you guys enter
me into the North Korean Pro Tour in Pyongyang?
And they were like, ah, I said, no, I want to go.
Just enter me.
Because we can't enter ourselves into pro tournaments.
So the US team has to enter you.
So they entered me.
And then I got contact from the Consulate General of North
Korea.
And they were like, oh, so happy you're going to come to
North Korea, blah, blah, blah.
And I was like, oh, this is cool.
This is really happening.
And then I saw my name on the list.
It said Wally Green, USA, Pyongyang Open.
And I wanted to go there to make a difference.
That was the plan.
I wanted to do a diplomacy.
I had no idea or no clue of how this was going to happen.
I didn't know what I was going to do.
There was no plan.
I said, but I want to do it.
So the first step is to get there.
So I wind up going there.
And there was one particular situation that.
Who set up the whole trip for you?
Oh, I did.
Oh, you set up yourself?
Oh, yeah.
I was back and forth with the Consulate.
I had to go to Beijing.
Can you actually buy a flight to North Korea
from the United States?
No.
So what you've got to do is you have to go to China.
And then you go to China, you go to the Consulate in China,
you get the visa in China, and then you're
going to buy the ticket in China.
Holy shit.
Now here's the craziest thing about that.
So when you buy the ticket in China,
so I'll tell you this, sir, how it went.
So I went to go buy my ticket.
And I go to, well, I couldn't even find the airline.
I couldn't find anywhere.
So I wanted to take a North Korean airline,
because I wanted the full effect of what
it is to go to North Korea.
So they have one airline.
So eventually, in the airport, people
were trying to tell me go this way, so I finally found it.
So I said, yeah, I want to go to Pyongyang.
Here's my visa.
And they said it was like $600, $700.
And I give them my card.
And they say, oh, sorry, sorry, no card.
So what you mean, no card?
Cash only.
Yeah, so I had to pay cash for my ticket.
So I had to go back out to ATM.
And you know what, it's to take $800 US out in Chinese money?
It's crazy.
It's like, you get all this cash running around.
What is the conversion?
I think it's a.
What do they use, yen?
No, no, no.
They use RMB.
What?
RMB.
RMB.
What the hell does that mean?
RMB.
RMB.
RMB.
That's Chinese currency?
That's Chinese currency, yeah.
And if I remember correctly, I can't remember.
What is it?
I can't remember what is it, what the conversion rate.
But it's definitely a lot too little.
OK.
Right, so I have to take all this money out.
And I pay them with it, so they give you a receipt.
But they didn't give me a boarding pass.
There's no boarding pass.
Just a receipt.
And they said, OK, God, I said, but where's the boarding pass?
They don't need it.
Somebody's going to pick you, and they're
going to bring you to your seat.
So I got escorted from there to my seat.
So there was never no sitting downtime.
It was from there, the person took me to the plane,
put me into my seat.
Yeah, it's very, the process, the whole process
of going there was really crazy.
It was definitely.
What was it like on the plane?
So when I got on the plane, I noticed every person
had these pins, they had these little pins.
Every person had one.
And I was like, what's those pins?
So I'm looking at the pins.
And the pins were either the current great leader,
that they call the great leader, Kim Jong-un,
or his dad and the grandfather, or all three of them.
So everyone had a pin on.
And I was looking, I said, well, I want to get a pin.
I was like, well, this is cool.
So I asked the stewardess, hey, can I get a pin?
She gave me the dirtiest look I've ever gotten in my life.
It was, I mean, she was acting like I was asking her for sex.
I just said, can I get a pin?
She gave me, she looked at me with this dirty look.
And I was like, OK, I guess that's a no.
And yeah, so I mean, everyone had these pins on.
And I mean, the flight was normal, it was fine.
The seats were nice.
Like, I have video of all this shit.
And the seats were nice.
It was a pretty cool flight.
And then you get they and you arrive when you go downstairs.
Somebody comes to get you.
They come pick you up.
They have a person that's responsible.
It's called your guide.
And they introduce themselves.
Hi, great to have you.
Well, blah.
Then they take your computer and take your phone
because they got to go through that shit where they go.
They go through shit.
Oh, yeah, they go.
Because there's certain things you can't bring into normal.
And they had somebody, a guide for you.
Why?
Because you were an American?
Well, that person's any any visitors, like Westerners, OK,
are going to have someone that's responsible for them.
Really?
That person, you're not going to.
So you can't leave your hotel and like go have lunch.
No, right.
You can't have to be escorted.
You have to be escorted.
You actually can't even go anywhere.
So for me every day, my every day was the same.
It was get up, go into the hotel lunch, dining room, eat.
Then she come pick me up.
Bring me to the practice hall.
Then she bring me to the tournament hall.
Then bring me back to the practice hall and back to the hotel.
So it's back and forth.
So there's nothing you can really do without that guide.
And that guide is responsible for you.
So they report back.
So they ask you a lot of different kind of questions,
which you have to be really careful.
Like people don't realize North Korea for me
is the most dangerous country in the world for any Westerner.
By far, I don't care.
You can go to Taliban world.
It don't matter.
North Korea is more dangerous.
Because at least in Taliban where I got my passport,
I can get the hell out.
I don't need to be there, right?
In North Korea, you don't have no cell phone service.
You have no Wi-Fi.
You're not allowed.
Westerner is not allowed Wi-Fi or cell phone service.
So with that in itself...
Can't use the internet?
No, zero.
With that in itself, you're cut off from the world.
That's it.
You're cut off.
The third thing that makes it the most dangerous
is that when they check into the hotel,
they take your passport.
So now you have no passport.
No passport, no cell phone, no Wi-Fi.
Yeah, you're in jail.
Holy shit, bro.
Were you freaked out a little bit?
I was never scared until the end.
Because like I said, I grew up in a private school gun.
What was your guide like?
You said it was a lady?
Was she nice?
So here's the thing.
So before you go there...
Was she hot?
Yeah.
So this is a trick.
Listen, before you go there, they know everything about you.
Everything is planned.
Nothing is by chance.
So they know that I like Asian chicks.
She fuck?
Yo, you definitely...
Listen, man, you'll be sitting in jail for 15 years
talking about, damn, I know I shouldn't have touched that girl.
They got no prostitutes over there?
You won't even see anything.
You'll never get a chance.
Like, listen, listen, they know that I like Asian chicks.
So they gave me this girl, this hot, hot Asian girl.
Why me out of everyone has a hot Asian model as a guide?
Come on, that's nonsense.
So the reason why they do that is they want to make you feel
as comfortable as you can feel so they can get information
from you.
So she asked me a lot of questions like,
so what do you think about our great leader?
You know, that's a trick question.
You better come up with the right answer
because if you don't, somebody will be...
I think he's a cunt.
That somebody will be knocking on your door.
You'll be asleep all of a sudden.
The hood will come over your head.
It'll be no joke.
But in reality, if you did say something like that,
you'd be arrested.
Wow.
Yes, yes.
Even if you're an American?
More because you're an American.
Really?
You'll be arrested.
So you can't say any stuff like that.
Did she try to lead you on at all to make you try to...
What they do is they don't lead you on your decision,
but they lead you on in questions
that can potentially get into some shit.
I mean, like, lead you on, like,
try to, like, tease you, like, romantically.
Oh, no, no, no.
Be like, you want to hang out later,
whatever, and you'll be like, hell, yeah.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
She's very, very serious.
Okay.
She's very, very serious.
She wasn't flirtatious at all.
No, no, not at all.
Because I don't think they have that in them.
Really?
I don't think...
You remember, these people are so oppressed.
I don't even think she knows how to...
I don't even think she knows what flirting is.
Yeah, they don't...
They can't watch movies and shit, right?
No, you can't watch anything outside of there.
Wow.
And, you know, I wanted to see how brainwashed people were,
because, you know, in this day and age,
I couldn't believe that people can really be that brainwashed.
So I set up a conversation with her and I said,
hey, you guys like me a lot, right?
But why do you hate foreigners?
And the reason why I say you guys...
I know you guys like me a lot,
was to diffuse any possible idea that she would think
that I'm trying to start some shit, right?
So I was like, yeah, I know you guys like me a lot,
but why do you guys hate Westerners?
She said, well, we don't hate Westerners.
We just don't want Western...
We don't want the Western influence in our country.
So I said, OK, I said, OK, I can understand sometimes,
you know, us Westerners, we mess things up.
And I go, I say, now mind you, what I'm doing now
is actually very dangerous.
It's extremely dangerous.
I could be in a lot of fucking trouble.
So I go to her, I go, but you know that every country
in the world needs the help and influence of other countries
to succeed and to flourish.
And she goes, well, that's not true.
In our great country, everything was done by our great leader
with zero Western influence.
And through our great leader, through our great country,
blah, blah, blah.
I said, well, your great leader has some Western influence.
So right now, I'm just touching the tip of the shit right now.
So I'm like, you know, your leader has some Western influence.
And she goes, that's not true.
Everything through North Korea, by North Korea, blah, blah, blah.
And I said, OK, what about basketball?
She said, basketball was created in North Korea
by our great leader.
And I was like, wow.
So I wanted to get deeper.
I wanted to get deeper.
So I didn't really argue with her in that.
So I said, OK.
Right.
You didn't want, if you were to argue with her,
it would have shut everything down.
So I said, OK.
I said, do you know that your great leader studied
outside of North Korea?
Now, I don't know what the hell I was thinking
of when I was saying this, but this could get you arrested.
Is that true?
Yeah.
Oh, I didn't even know that.
Switzerland, yeah.
But that's why he speaks English, perfect English.
This could get you arrested.
And she says, that's not true.
I said, yeah, it's true.
I said, everyone knows it.
The whole world knows it.
And then sometimes you forget what your purpose is
when you're in these conversations
and you start to take it personally.
So at this point, I was thinking of personally,
because I'm like, you're fucking out.
Now you're like kind of like speaking from the heart.
Yeah.
I'm like, you're dumb as hell and you're not.
Don't even know it.
Yeah.
And so now I'm forgetting what the purpose is.
And I'm starting to get a little like, no.
Everyone in the world knows this.
This is a fact.
Then she started to get a little upset.
And she goes, this is not true.
He's never left this.
And then I said, oh my god, you know what?
I'm so sorry.
It was the Cuban president.
My bad got out of that shit real fast.
That could have turned real bad for me.
And luckily, I caught myself in the middle of it,
because she was getting upset.
And all she needs to do is just go back and report.
And then you get 15 years and it's
corrupting the minds of citizens.
That's a charge.
I've studied everything about North Korea before I went there.
So I knew.
Corrupting the minds of citizens is a charge.
Yes.
15 years.
It will put you 15 years in a hard labor camp.
15.
So that's why you're not allowed to bring books to North Korea.
You're not allowed to bring music.
Nothing of the Western world that can potentially
get into hands of North Koreans should you bring.
Yeah, because that's corrupting the minds of citizens.
When you first got there, how long
did they keep your phone and your computer for?
That was pretty quick.
It was at the airport.
I got it right back.
I don't know what they did to it.
Maybe they went through it.
Put some sort of fucking tracking shit on it.
I don't know what they did.
Maybe, mics, I don't know.
So I have no idea, but they gave it back to me.
So I had the phone.
But regardless, it's useless once it's there,
because you don't have any service.
No, zero, zero.
The only one time I was able to get service
was I bumped into a Chinese guy who couldn't even
speak English that much.
But he recognized me from my hair.
You see, my hairstyle is crazy.
So he recognized me from the Chinese TV.
So he tried to talk to me.
And I don't understand Chinese, but I kind of
get the idea that he recognized me.
And so he had a phone.
And his phone was working with internet and everything.
So then I figured it out.
Chinese citizens are allowed to have internet and phone
service, because China has an agreement with North Korea.
Do they really?
Yeah.
So you remember when America was beefing,
America kept saying to China, like, yo, calm your guy?
Because of that, China has an agreement with them.
So Chinese citizens get to have cell phone service.
So I talked to this guy and said, hey, listen, in English,
but he can't speak.
But I say, what I want you to do, I want to use this phone.
So that I could get internet from his phone to my phone
real quickly.
And he let me do it.
I took his phone.
It's an iPhone, of course, and I know how to set it to do it.
And so I got to use internet for maybe like two minutes.
So I don't want to get arrested.
I just wanted to check in emails real quick.
And for two minutes, I got to use this phone.
But yeah, for me, it's nothing.
Zero.
So that's why I say it's the most dangerous place.
Because anything can happen to you.
People don't realize, look what happened to the American kid
that went there, that the college student went there
and came back and died here.
You didn't hear about that?
No, what are you talking about?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, so a few years ago, a college student
went to North Korea on some trip, I don't know.
And he tried to steal a propaganda poster, which
is the dumbest thing you could ever do.
If you researched anything about North Korea,
you would know they're watching you every second.
And then they caught him and they arrested him.
And I don't know what they did to him.
They said they didn't do anything to him,
but I don't believe it.
He came in and died.
How did he die?
They said that he had botulism or whatever,
some virus or some, I don't know, some not-
He got sick and he's died?
I don't believe that.
I don't believe it.
So he came, they sent him back.
He sent him back here and he died here.
Yeah.
So it's a really, really, really serious place.
You can't mess around.
And I've learned from traveling, you just
got to respect the shit that goes on in other people's
countries, because it can turn really bad for you.
And especially if you're an American,
because you're the person that they want to make an example
of, you're the one that they want to put on that TV
for propaganda.
Look at this American who did this to our country.
So you never want to be that guy.
No, don't be that guy.
So once I started figuring out she was getting upset,
I just changed it real quick.
And that was it.
I never talked about it again.
Never talked about it again.
Yeah, it was crazy.
So how was the actual ping pong tournament?
Oh, it was good, man.
So like I mentioned before, I didn't have a plan
as to how I was going to make a difference.
How was I going to do this diplomacy?
I didn't have any plan.
Up to that point, I had no plan.
I was probing and picking and trying
to understand more deeply without getting arrested.
But then I got to play the tournament.
So first month I played against China.
Then in the second match, I was lucky to play against North
Korea, which was very lucky, because it could have been
Vietnam, it could have been Syria,
it could have been some other country.
But I'm sure they set it up so that an American would play
a North Korean, I'm sure.
So I got to play this guy, and we start the match.
So first we walk in.
The walking is crazy, too.
Because the way it works is, you have the umpires,
umpires walk in, the music is playing.
And then the player walks, then another umpire,
and then I walk.
Sounds like the WWE.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, a little bit, a little bit.
And you're walking, and then you come in.
And there's maybe like 5,000 fans all North Korean.
But all North Korean mind you.
So these are people that they probably
say, hey, all you people, your job today
has come to this tournament.
It's not like people randomly walked into the tournament.
Everything is planned, right?
Everything is made to look like something.
So I'm sure they said, this people, this is your job today,
you're gonna go watch this tournament.
So they came and when I started walking in,
I could feel like the eyes of people on me.
Like it's crazy, it's the most crazy feeling.
I feel, you just feel everyone looking at you, right?
Because I'm a black dude with like blonde hair
with designs in it, they've never seen that shit.
Unless they've seen Dennis Rodman,
and we don't even know how much
they've actually seen Dennis Rodman, right?
So everyone's looking at you already,
just being a black dude from America.
You know, you come out, you know, you have the flag,
the US flag is up there, you know, it's on the screen,
USA, so everybody knows you're American.
So you come out and people are just looking at you.
And all the eyes are just on your body,
and you can feel, it's crazy,
you can feel the eyes on your body, it's so intense.
So then you come out.
What is the average citizen there?
What is their like feeling about Americans,
about American people?
We're the devil, we're evil,
and we should all be killed.
Yeah.
Every single citizen?
This is what their brainwashed to believe.
How the fuck do they, I mean,
how do they justify bringing Americans in there to compete?
Because this is it.
They probably brought me there to get my ass kicked,
so they can say that, look, I'll,
that's what I said, it's probably set up
so that I can play the North Korean, right?
So look, I'll great country defeated
the evil access of America or whatever,
not knowing that I am by far,
not that player that you think that you're trying to defeat,
that's not that guy.
But yeah, so, you know, you come in
and everybody's looking at you
and you can feel the eyes,
like the eyes are on your body, you feel it, it's intense.
So we start to play, but once zero, zero start, that's it.
My mind is on the match, I'm about to put it on you.
All right, so we start playing, I get the first point.
Whoa, yeah, you know, one zero, two zero, three zero.
Every time I make a point, the audience goes,
hmm.
So picture, 5,000 people going,
hmm, this, this, this, disapproving, weird sound.
Every time you make a point,
the first five points, all I heard was,
hmm, like this from everyone, hmm.
I was like, holy shit, nuts.
And then he makes a point and all of a sudden,
whoa, so I clap in, makes another point,
whoa, then it gets louder, it's like,
then third point and it gets in,
everyone's just clapping in unison,
like how you see on TV, clapping really, really loud.
I mean, this is not, this is the preliminary round.
It's not the Olympics, it's not the final championship,
but yeah.
They don't know though, they're just there
because they have to be.
They were for their guy and they were so loud.
So it got so loud that I couldn't concentrate.
It was just so loud and it was just,
I've never been, always I'm the underdog, right?
So that never happens to me,
but it was almost like he was underdog.
So I was throwing off my game, it was really loud.
And then I stopped for a second and I look up
and as I look up, I just smiled, I just laughed.
And then everyone started smiling and laughing.
And I was like, oh shit, that's crazy.
So I played again, I did again, looked up, I laughed.
Everyone started laughing.
Then it was like a chain reaction.
Everyone started smiling and laughing.
Every time I look up, they would laugh and smile.
They were laughing, smile.
So I said, bam, I got it, I got it, I got it.
I said, this is where I'm gonna make the difference.
This is it right here.
This is the chance because I got the audience now.
I've captured the audience, right?
In their mind, normally I should be this evil American.
So I should be like, ah, shut the fuck up
or something like this, but I didn't do that.
I'm smiling and just interacting.
And then I, so I just kept interacting the whole match
as I'm playing this guy.
And then at the end of the match,
the North Korean guy wins, right?
And like you have to shake hands
after you play your match, right?
So he comes to shake my hand,
but you could tell he really doesn't wanna shake my hand.
He doesn't wanna shake my hand, come American, right?
So he just wanna smash, he wants to shake my hand
as little as possible.
So he comes and gives me this weak ass shake,
like kind of like just puts his hands out
and kind of wants to touch my hand.
And I just grabbed his arm, pulled him in
and gave him a beer hug, right?
What?
And so my camera's filming, so my camera's behind me,
which is my back, his face, right?
And so I gave him a beer hug
and in the camera, you see his face.
It's first like, whoa, but then he smiles.
Then he smiles, right?
And he quickly like gets away, but he smiles, right?
So that was the reason to go to North Korea.
That smile, you can't fake.
That's a real genuine smile, right?
So the whole crowd started clapping
and he started cheering.
And this was real, right?
Cause I'm the evil American, right?
So there's no way he would have smiled
if that wasn't a real feeling.
And by him smiling, can probably get him into some shit.
Smiling that an American hugged you, right?
So then I realized that I finally did what I went to do
because if you think about it,
for the rest of their lives, those 5,000 people,
they're always gonna remember this black dude
with yellow hair from America
that came and showed him nothing but love.
He's always gonna remember for the rest of his life,
there's no way he's gonna forget.
I'm sure he's never been hugged by anybody like me
or even an American or Westerner,
never in his life for sure.
He's never gonna forget it.
The rest of his life, he's gonna always remember
the black dude from America with the bleached hair
and designs came all the way and gave him a hug, right?
So then now you can't change people overnight.
Doesn't work like that.
But what you can do is you can plant the seed.
So the seed is planted in his head
and it's up to him where he wants to take that seed.
He can maybe ignore it, but you can never forget it.
It's always gonna be there, right?
So when people start saying,
oh, America's this, America's that, America's this,
those people and him can think,
well, you know, that guy did come from America
and he was smiling the whole time and he gave him a hug.
Maybe, just maybe it's not what you guys
are really saying it is, you know?
And that's how you plant the seed.
So I was able to do that.
So the trip was really well worth.
The anguish that I had being there, it was worth it, yeah.
So it was mission accomplished.
Definitely mission accomplished.
Because I mean, it could have went another way.
Maybe I didn't get to play in North Korean.
I got to play a Syrian.
Yeah.
Then that's it.
I would have went there and accomplished zero.
So it was the luck of the draw.
It worked out and yeah.
That's fucking beautiful, man.
That's a beautiful story.
That's really cool.
That's really dope.
Crazy, crazy, crazy time.
Well, that's a strong way to end this thing, man.
We just did two hours.
All right, all right.
I appreciate you coming down, bro.
Tell all the listeners and the viewers and everything
where they can follow you and find your shit.
Oh yeah, man, just give me a follow on Instagram.
It's Wally Green NYC on Instagram.
I also started a TikTok.
I don't know if you guys are into TikTok.
What's your TikTok name?
There's also Wally Green NYC with an underscore.
All right, man.
I'll link it below so they can check it out.
Definitely, definitely, definitely, man.
Cool, man.
Well, thanks again for doing this, dude.
I really enjoyed it.
It was fun, definitely.
All right, man.
Let's go play some ping pong.
Yep.
