The Hulk Hogan sex tape really fucked up my life. It really did. And a lot of
people don't know the truth to that. If you were to go ask, let's say you two
guys are walking down the International Mall and you walk up to
anybody in Tampa, Florida, or maybe the world for that most part, and you're
like, hey, what do you know about the Hogan sex tape? And they're gonna say,
oh, his best friend, Bubba the Love Sponge, taped Hogan fucking his wife and
then Bubba tried to sell it and do him dirty. There's truth to that. I did let
him fuck my wife and my home surveillance system got captivated it as it
captivates everything. That's my only dabbling in the whole thing.
The sequence of events that happened thereafter will absolutely blow
people's fucking minds when they find out how this all went down. Now, I'm not
trying to say, oh, listen, I'm innocent. No, no, I let my best friend fuck my hot
wife. I did. My best friend was in a which that's not I mean, if everyone's
willing and there's nothing wrong with there's three willing participants and
really at the end of the day had an employee of mine not steal my fucking
my surveillance. Only three people to this day would still know about that
event. And my life would have been ruined. My ex wife wouldn't be considered a
whore. And Hogan wouldn't have $141 million in his pocket. So I mean, jokes
on me, motherfucker. I mean, he really got all that money. No, he didn't. He got
it. And in my opinion, in my opinion, between now there were no don't forget
there were two lawsuits. There was Hogan versus Gawker. And then the lawsuit
that nobody knows about Hogan versus Cox. Okay. This all of this was
aggregated through Cox media. People don't that lawsuit settled that lawsuit
settled. That's the story I'm going to tell. I'm going to tell that story.
Everybody knows Hogan versus Gawker and how that worked out. But if you were to
go and ask that people say, well, people don't realize is that my best friend
Hulk Hogan lived with me at his lowest point of his life in 2007. He was
suicidal. I had to take a gun away from him at one time. He was he was he was
going to kill himself. And we were coming home from the dollhouse one night. My
wife and I had a semi open relation. I mean, you know, we were we were I
wouldn't say we're necessarily in the lifestyle. But you know, I'm not a
jealous guy. I've I've seen through all of my years on being on radio and, you
know, the the Squirt Olympics and the girls pissing and fucking coffee cans
and shooting ping pong balls out their pussies and just all the stuff that
I've seen, you know, I've become calloused. So my best friend fucking my
wife is not that big a deal to me. And so you guys were married. We were
together. Yeah, we were married. And and so we're driving on from the dollhouse
and my wife calls me and Hogan's down. He's going through the worst fucking
divorce ever. And I just told I said, Hey, Heather, have a little sexy outfit on
and and take care of my boy when we get home. And it was pretty much that it
was pretty much that simple. The the the chain of custody of the tape is a
story in itself. It was Heather and I were going through a very nasty
divorce. And I didn't want that, you know, that that DVD at my house at that
time. So I took it and put it in my office. And an employee stole it and
the rest is history. Then employee disseminated it. The employee used it to
try to extort Hogan for a million dollars. There was an FBI. Did you know
that there was an FBI sting? I had no fucking clue. No, nobody knows this.
Nobody knows that this tape was shopped all around Hollywood. And
everybody in Hollywood asked the spice boy, Matt Lloyd, spice boy, my co
host was shopping this to digital underground into wicked productions and
all this and says, you know, because the sex tape world with the Ray J and
Kim Kardashian and Paris Hilton and Tommy Lee, you know, those those were
worth millions of dollars because people, the people in the in the tapes
agreed, you know, for the right at the end of the day, right? Pam and Tommy
want to act like they didn't. They made a lot of money on that deal. Well,
Heather, myself or Hogan was sex tape hasn't made money. Yeah, right. I'm
I'm the I'm the guy I'm the person that's been on the worst side of sex
tape. I'm the I am the fucking the guy who got buttfucked by sex by sex
tapes. So as spice boy was shopping this this tape, I didn't even know that
it was gone. You know, like, for instance, see that toolbox over there?
Yeah. Okay. You might have three half inch wrenches in there. Do you really
know that there's three in there? Last time you checked, there was three. But
do you go back every day and check that there's three half inch wrenches?
Right. No, I knew my this I knew this sex tape was in my office in the desk. I
didn't go every day and relook. Oh, it's still there. I just knew I never had
an employee theft program problem. I didn't, you know, I had nothing. I had
a pretty small staff and nobody went in my office and I'd never have a theft
problem. People had keys to the building. They could come and work on the
weekends and things like that. Well, one of my employees stole it. I didn't
know it was stolen until one of my producers, Brent Hattley, calls me
March 4th, 2011 and flat out asks me, did did Hogan fuck your wife? And I'm
like, I'm driving into work. It's 440 in the morning. I'm on the Howard
Franklin. I'm like, what are you talking about? He's like, on the dirty.com.
There's a screenshot of your bedroom with Hogan, you know, on top of on top
of Heather. And I'm like, Oh, my God, Brent Brent run into my office right
now and look at my top desk top drawer under some papers. There should be a
DVD that says Hogan on it. And he walked in there and can't be said it's not
there. And my I knew I knew I knew I knew my life was ruined. So spice boy was
taking this tape. And when he was going to digit when he was going to all
these places that could potentially buy a sex tape, the first thing they ask
was, well, do you have 2257 forms on the people involved? And a 2257 form is
just a standardized form that says I am this person giving you permission to
use my likeness and distribute it and we own the right and all that kind of
bullshit. Spice boy starts shopping this tape. He can't find anybody in
Hollywood or anybody in the porn industry will touch it. They're like,
listen, we cannot put we cannot put this up if you don't have, you know, at
least Heather and Hogan on 2257s. Right. It's illegal. Well, at that point,
he is the tape was worth nothing. So he that this is this will take this
dandy, this will blow your fucking mind. And this is what people in the mall
and don't know is that he then got ahold of his wife's best friend who named
Lori Burbage, who looked worked at the Bank of America. She was just making
like, you know, 2020, like a single mom and gave her $1,000 to be the liaison.
And he called up a guy named Keith Davidson, who was the number one sex
tape broker in Hollywood. I've heard of him. And he came, he flew to Tampa and
brokered this and he had David Houston, who's Hogan's lawyer, who's now dad and
Hogan. Is that the guy who looks like a burn victim? Yeah, it looks like fire
Marshall Bill. Oh my God. Let me get you something. I got so much heat when he
died. Yeah, you died in Reno. Oh, fuck. And so him and Hogan, Keith Davidson got
ahold of him and Hogan and said, we have this sex tape. I have the sex tape.
Well, first of all, the dirty.com print put put the screenshot of it up in
March and kind of alerted the world that it was out there. So everybody's
scrambling around where the fuck is it? Nobody knows they can't produce it.
The dirty.com has to pull it down immediately. But but but Spiceboy fucked
up by I think I like, I think he got like $4,500 to send them that just that
picture. So as he's shopping and he can't sell it, he then arranges a meeting to
for Keith Davidson to represent him. And Hogan, David Houston, and Laurie
Burbage, who represents the owner of the tape, because if Spiceboy would have
walked in there, Hogan would have said fuck, because they knew he knew Spiceboy
were for me. Right. You know, he's Spiceboy wanted to completely stay out of
it. Right. So Laurie Burbage goes in representing the owner of the tape. Keith
Davidson's in there, they're brokerate. But what they don't know is that Hogan
and David Houston called the FBI and said, we're being extorted. They want a
million dollars for the sex tape that for Hogan to buy back so that it doesn't
get out. That's what bad guys do is if I got something here and you don't want
this, you don't want your wife to see this, well, then buy it off of me, bitch.
Right, right. Otherwise, she's going to get it. Now, that was true. Somebody did
try to extort it for a million. True. It's an it's an it was an FBI sting
that's been fully documented video. They have it like recorded him actually
saying that. Yes. Wow. I'll have that footage on my documentary. So they're
in there and Hogan writes a dummy check for $150,000 to buy back this tape. The
feds knocked the door down, fucking put Laurie Burbage and Michael Dave Keith
Davidson in handcuffs. Oh, this gets fucked up, Dan. You're gonna fucking freak
out over this deal.
