This is Luke give it give them a
Give your artistic introduction to this. What does this mean to you?
Well, it's hard to give a soft opening when I'm having so many blue chews because it's pretty hard at the moment, but
So what we had to do is Hulk Hogan was launching a competitive a competitive service to go daddy named hosta mania
So the investors within the company had been working with Danny for a little bit on some other stuff
And they came to us to help them
Create a launch video for it
And this was right around when my least iris's wrecking ball video was really popular
And I think that's really all the setup that you need here
I remember so this goes back to the last podcast when we talked about when me and Luke broke up for five years
When I put my name on the end of it not his yeah, so this is I out for that at the end
See one name
It should really be Luke's because it was his idea so so we got basically the budget approved
And we knew you're making a commercial for Hulk Hogan
And we knew it had to be the best commercial the best idea
We ever came up with and we sat on it for probably about what a week trying to come up with the idea
Yeah, we're like playing chess drinking coffee getting smoking cigars smoking cigarettes playing ping pong getting really high
We're trying to come up with the idea for this commercial forever all the only
The only kind of like brief that you would call that they gave us was they wanted to play off of the
Jean-Claude Van Damme go daddy. Yeah, they wanted to somehow like beat up Jean-Claude Van Damme
Right, they wanted to come off Jean-Claude and that when he splits on the same eyes
No, he wasn't the go daddy thing. He's like playing bongo's doing a split. He's like upside down. It was really lame
Yeah, it's not it was not funny
We got a John Claude lookalike that was somebody's brother-in-law or something that wanted to be in commercials
So they're like so they're like we want
Hulk Hogan to somehow smash up John Claude Van Damme in the commercial and we're gonna like
We're gonna body slam go daddy or like we're gonna crush go daddy somehow by beating up John Claude and we got Hulk Hogan
So there's there's what we got to give you come up with a commercial. Yeah, and then Luke I
Don't remember how you tell me I think you called me one morning or you told me when we came into the office
You're like I got it
Yeah, all I said to you was just like Hulk Hogan on a wrecking ball
And that was it and then like I saw your brain explode
Like I told you that you like because Miley Cyrus video was going viral right there in the wall and you go
Yeah, like something like that and then you called Mike and like flew him down to help us make the ball
Which was no a yoga ball wrapped in duct tape and cement, but how about when we called Hulk and told him the idea
Oh, yeah, that was great
That was great too like pitching it to Hulk like telling him like okay
So like I was like probably the first pitch I ever really did and like you set it up and like, okay Luke take it away
Take it away
All right, and there's like
Three business bros and vests and Mark Hargrove and Hulk's wife was there
And then I remember getting up and pitching it to him's like alright
So everybody knows about Miley Cyrus and the wrecking ball and like it's just taking over the internet
It's pretty much breaking the internet. You can't go anywhere without seeing it
So everybody's used to seeing Hulk like really tough and mean and like kicking ass and like kicking doors and like doing all this
Shit, but like what if we just like put him on a wrecking ball and then he comes in and gives John Claude the boot like
He's like in the thong
He's got the bow on and he's just gonna come in and just like let him know like hey go daddy's here. That's cool
Here's host to mania. We're gonna show you how it's done
nobody really responded to it and then I remember Hulk's wife just being like I
Can see it that's pretty cool, and then everybody was on board with it
And then wait don't don't forget what Hulk said at the very end
What do you say? He goes I?
It's really strong brother, but there's one thing up. There's one change. I would make can I do it in my birthday suit?
There he says something something like I'm paraphrasing, but he's like there's one thing that would make it better
If I if I was in the birthday suit if I wasn't wearing nothing I'm sure we wanted to do it naked
I'm sure we've looked at him or like if you want to do that
Whip it out
So that was the the greatest idea that was ever conjured up by
Anybody in my opinion that was the that was the greatest. I've never been more excited about a car about an idea
That was our peak for sure. That was definitely the peak
Well, let a rip let a rip bother do run it but talk
Do some commentary on okay?
And so like the reason that this guy looks like Hulk Hogan is because Hulk Hogan didn't want to pose without rewind it rewind it
Rewind it he didn't want to pose without his bandana. You're one in the beginning. Yeah, maybe he doesn't think people know
He's bald and also like it pause it in the front. It's a
The beginning where he's coloring I guess it was from a Hulk Hogan had an animated series
Yeah, yeah in the 80s and we just traced a couple frames from it and had red and yellow crayons everywhere
Everything heroes. Was that what it was called? I have no idea what it was called
How about how about that a look at that attention to detail with that little cup with the red and yellow skittles
Just look at that art direction. It looks like your dad's friend Mike
It does it's kind of like
It's like a it almost could be a Snickers commercial could be like you're not like you're not yourself bite
You know bite into a Snickers and yeah
This would be like the Hulk that you are if you're hungry like you got a button-up shirt and no bandana and khakis
Doesn't wear khakis
Never ever he'd be busting out them. Oh, no the last thing Hulk would ever wear and
Then every single crayon on the table is broken in half because he's so strong man. He's hulking out
He's so strong. You can't use crayons. All right. Go ahead play, but be ready to press pause
200 million hosting orders look at that rotoscoping look those eyebrows there's Jean-Claude. He's got his crayon
Oh
So when we had to break up the shoot posit
That's a great place to pause it so when we had to we broke up the shooting when we transitioned from
Him wearing pants to him all of a sudden being in a thong. Yeah, which I was surprised. It was like that's probably like his daily choice of underwear
Oh, that's what he wears every day for sure. Yeah, but I remember specifically like you were setting up the shot
And then you're like hey go get Hulk
Okay, cool
So I go back to the to his dressing room
And I remember like knocking on the door and then he opens it
And then he was he was wearing that thong and then I looked at him and then I looked at his dick
And then I looked back at him. He's like I'm ready
God what was his dick looking like was looking like what did he have to do that day or
He how would you rate his dick from was it a python? I'd say it was a 24 inch python
I'd say Steve Irwin might have had some trouble with that python
damn
God damn son
All right, run it
And I remember this shot too the shot was really difficult because this this all you know the legitimate of so we had
What was it we had a boom truck boom truck we rented a boom truck
And we had to boom
The into the warehouse that we were shooting him
We were shooting like a big warehouse with like a like an 18 foot ceiling
And we had to push the boom truck lift with the bucket inside the garage
Yeah, and it was only like because of how low the garage was we could only get it
Maybe like 12 feet up like just out of frame right here. So there wasn't enough chain between the ball
And the top and the boom bucket for it to actually swing like we couldn't get a legitimate swinging shot
So I had to I was like that's we're gonna ruin this like that. He needs to swing on the ball
What yeah, I didn't know what the fucking do we have everyone here. We have Hulk here
We have literally like what do we do all the pressure in the world is on us
And we have to come up with something to make this look like he's swinging
So I came up with a fucking camera move where I put the tripod really low
And I figured out if I if I pan the camera back and forth
It looks like he's swinging. Yeah, so if he's stationary hanging on sitting on the ball and I'm moving the camera like this
It makes it look like he's actually swinging across the frame
And then if you go back to like that beginning part
You see how it's like hanging right now with like the the feather boa and his pants
So if you go back to when he's swinging in
Back farther go back to the beginning. Keep going. It looks like he's sitting
On the ball. No, go back before he kicks him
When he's still got pants on
So right there. So that was a shot. I so
And then I faked I rotoscoped the ball to follow him to be on his butt. Yep
So we got rid of that seat
And then I remember doing the punch ins of the vocals right there in the back room
Remember he was just like back there yelling for like an hour. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah forgot about that
And then there's one that burns that burns
Daniel Jones directed by Daniel directed by written by created by graphic designed by everything done by Daniel
Hulk Hogan played by Daniel Jones
Hang on go back and go back Aiden
Rest in peace Shane Lee
Hang on go back
Go to the other tab where it says nice the beach bun the next one to the left. Oh the nice buns one is great
Oh, wait. No, not that one. That one's great. Next one
I actually have a funny story about my wife and this video which one this one. Yeah, this is the other
This is probably this one was executed better than the wrecking ball
I think this one's my one of my favorite. This idea wasn't as good as the wrecking ball
But this one was executed way better. Yeah, we pulled it off. Yeah for sure. There was no pressure shooting this. No
Look at brain. You got down. That's me. That's Luke right there. That's not me
That's you Luke. Okay. It kind of is
That's me. Nice. That's my legs
Did you shave your legs for the shot?
Oh
Fuck this ruins it
Now you know how people watching your channel feel
That was fucking great commercial that was good that one really hit
So I shaved my legs for that and it was like a day before I went up to go hang out with sam
For the first time in chicago and like ask her to be my girlfriend. Was it really the day before?
Yeah, and I told her like I may or may not remember this smooth legs before I come up
It's just like please god no
I have a picture
She's saying I only had to shave to my knee
But I shaved all the way up and I was trying to make it easy for me sam
You shaved the whole leg I shaved the whole leg because I stopped at the knee and I was like this is weird
That's weird. I don't know if this is like which would have been worse like just like a half
Shaved leg with like because I'm I'm really hairy legs. Yeah, you do have really hairy fucking legs
Yeah, so it honestly I did you a service
You just have like if you shave it to the knee you just have like hairy pants hairy shorts
Hair shorts that before or after the wrecking ball commercial after that was after yeah, it was after
I'm pulling up a photo right now
Lag one of me shaving my legs. I have a picture of you in the back alley
Next to the dumpster shaving your leg. Yeah, dry shaving my legs. Mm-hmm. That's how dedicated I am to getting this shot
Didn't you spit on them a little bit and blew it up? Yeah. All right, everybody. Thank you for listening
Over and out. See you later. What's up world? You just watched a clip from one of our exclusive
Patreon episodes. That's right. You can get weekly pure uncut content
Straight from the jungles of columbia. If you want to watch the full episode make sure you go to patreon.com
slash concrete videos
