Next week's podcast with Matthew B Cox is now up on patreon all podcasts will now be posted there a week before YouTube as well as bonus content and
Discounts on Concrete merch go to patreon.com
Concrete videos to check it out
Hello world welcome to podcast number 78
Think it's 78 is it 78?
What fucking podcast are we on?
Yeah
Today's guest is Paul Loyan Paul has been teaching physics for over 25 years in the United States and in Australia on this podcast
We talk about all kinds of mind-bending stuff including how scientists are creating black holes at the European
Organization for nuclear research that places also known as CERN CERN we talk about dark matter dark energy and also how CERN
Has developed new ways to treat cancer with particle therapy or Hadron therapy
Anyways, I hope you all enjoy this podcast as much as I did. Please welcome Paul Loyan
Hello there
Hello, Danny. How is Danny? Isn't it? Yes, Danny?
Good day. Good day. How are you doing, sir? I'm doing well. I like I like your your NASA outfit in the background
That's just your lapco. Is that what you were to work?
Sometimes I've been feeling a little quirky
basically, it's got
all weird, you know terrible physics puns
Name tags and so forth including my soon pass over here. So
It's basically a half the time. It's just a prop, but I do wear it sometimes particularly if I'm teaching junior kids
So our school is all encompassing so I teach
High school, but our schools also got a junior or elementary school
Aspect to it. So sometimes when I teach to the younger kids, you know, I hang it up with my lab coat. So yeah
Yeah, I really like what you do, man
I like what you do with your with your YouTube channel and the the educational stuff that you're posting on there
It's it's very unique and it's very I think it's really cool to see stuff like that
Garner so much attention from people because I feel like the way culture at least in the United States is going
People aren't interested in this kind of stuff. They're more interested in mind-numbing shit. You see on television and
Anyways, I really like what you're doing. So how did you why did you start or how did you start doing this?
Okay, so
well, I mean it would used to be called my channel, of course, is physics high and
It used to be called high school physics explained and it started off way back in 2015 when I
Wanted to produce some videos so that
My students could access some of the content I teach in class if they were away
So it basically was setting up a camera in the classroom me recording what I'm doing in front of the classroom and then uploading it and
I found that actually quite amateurish
And so
All I some of my students benefited from it
I thought, you know, I would rather spend a little bit more time putting a bit more production value in it
And then actually teach it that's appropriate for the media
for the medium I should say and
so, yeah, that's sort of how it started and
Then I discovered I started to getting you know being good because I'm posting on YouTube
I'm starting getting a little a bit of more viewers beyond my classroom
And so I thought I'd continue the process so
Initially, the idea was to support the education curriculum here in Australia
But physics is you know physics is physics. So whether you're in the States or India or
Australia or wherever and so I sort of tailored it to be yeah meet my school kids curriculum
But at the same time not make it really not down. So for example
You know, you'll find lots of youtubers producing videos for AP physics, for example
And then they really go nut it down particularly, you know, this is what's the outcome for AP physics or whatever
Or let's say for the IB with the International Belucca baccalaureate and I thought no, I want to broaden that so I just made it more general and
yeah, it grew from there basically and then I
Discovered that some of my videos started getting tractions outside of the high school
So, you know, first year university students said, oh, you know, I wish I had learned it this way or I
Did some videos on medical physics, which was an optional course here in Australia
And all of a sudden I had all these radiology students from India saying oh, I really like your video
This has been really helpful for my course. So yeah, it grew from there
and
Yeah, starting to and you know late earlier this year I changed my name to physics high
because I wanted to
Not capture just the high school students. I wanted to capture anyone interested in science in physics
And you know, I've been doubling and wanting to expand my channel now to beyond the curriculum
So, you know dealing with general science with
you know, you know, I've talked about CERN, of course, I've talked about climate change and
I'm hoping to do other stuff that you know astronomy astrophysics cosmology stuff
that is
really
intracts
Watches who look, you know, they say look, I did physics years ago
But or I wanted it. This has been in the news. I want to know a bit more about it
You know, but from a more, you know, scientific perspective rather than a, you know, an ignorant perspective if that makes sense
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely
So, yeah, I think it's what did you notice that?
I mean, obviously since you spend a lot of time in a classroom teaching students, right?
Yeah, what what do you think it is that makes people so attracted to
the type of the type of stuff you're talking about like that kind of the way you
Portray it and the way you make it so
entertaining
That there's something there's something to it where people want to watch it
That's so much different from school at least here in the United States
You know, most of kids in classrooms, they don't want to be there. They're not interested in it. They don't the teachers don't
Don't give it to them in a way that makes them want more
Yeah, well, I mean, I'm a teacher so I
I
I empathize with how teachers struggle in the class and when I used to teach in the state, I thought I thought physics for three years in the states
20 years ago and
I
think
there's look if
If you say why students like science or white people like science, it's because they're actually drawing out
Really something from the early childhood. So one of the classic give you sort of perspective
One of the classic questions you might hear a little kid ask is why why does work mommy?
Why does this work daddy? There's this natural
Equizidiveness that they have about their world whether, you know, whether it is like, what does the light bulb work?
Why does the Bob dog make the sound the way he does?
Whatever and often the parents are scratching their heads. Don't know how to answer that and
And I see that still in sciences in the junior classes because I teach at a school that's like I said all-encompassing I see that
Still wanting to ask questions. Why?
but then what happens particularly around the
Ages of 12 13 14 so you read your classic middle school range
You see that drop off a bit and I think that question is a tough one to answer
partly because
It's it's a real question that teachers often ask. What is it that causes that drop-off?
I still ask it
I see students in my classroom who struggle at getting science and so forth and I think it's a multifaceted
Concern, I don't I certainly don't want to blame it on the teachers because as a teacher
I know the struggles that it is and I think
one if I just address a couple of thoughts
And there's lots of research in this like there's no quick easy answer number one
We live in an age where information is bombarded at us
So in other words, we just get fed information
You know you can go click from one place to one to the other and there's no stopping of questions of why and looking into
Other words, which requires a little bit of thought. We're easily distracted and I think the social media issues and
Instant fix things instant gratification things does not help science at all in that regard
Secondly, I think in a lot of educational systems
Content is king
That is let's get all this information out that science is all about knowing all these facts
Which it isn't science is about asking the questions. Why and it's about exploring the questions. Why why does this happen?
Well, let's explore it and so forth and teachers are
Caught in the middle they have to keep teach this content that often bureaucrats rise and say we've got a need to know this information
And yet what they want to do is expose the questions to kids to why and inquiry learning and and they're caught in the middle
so we find that as a real struggle in in
Trying to teach away a science how science works
But then at the same time the pressures of the curriculum the pressures of exams, you know
You know, I know that for instance dates, you know, the issues of you know
We've got to meet this content because they're sitting the SATs or whatever other exams that they have at the end of the year
And it's got it all topsy-turvy
you know and
Yeah, I think and you know, I think
science at the moment has a little bit of a
An image problem and I think
That is
You still have this media image of the mad scientist or the nerd who doesn't have it
You know the media and and Hollywood portray science in a way that does not reflect real science, you know, and
I
Think I think Hollywood is time
Slowly coming around and the last few years there've been a really number of good films that portray science
And I'm far more realistic way. I think of interstellar. I think of Martian as two good examples in terms of physics
But yeah
When you have that portrayal, it's not that it's cool
Well, then you're gonna ask teenagers to sort of go into that, you know, that's a real struggle. So
There are a few things there, but I'm sure
Your listeners might know a few other the reasons why there might be reasons, but they're the ones that I come to mind
Yeah, there's just so many things I the age group you're speaking of specifically
I think there's so many other things like social media like you mentioned and video games are a huge thing where you know
You can't there's only so much you can take away from a video game without, you know, learning something new and
You know on on top of that like the type of programming that you see on TV with the way that television networks
Buy certain types of TV shows or they want certain types of shows
They're just gonna fit their ad dollars that are gonna get what's the next big thing like what's the next big show
We're gonna get instead of trying to
Integrate actual, you know valuable information like this
Onto the networks or you know, the mainstream media
It's not about that. It's all about clicks and eyeballs
And I think that that's a fundamental problem with uh with the way
Our culture works, especially when it comes to the media
um
Cool, so what
You've been to cern in switzerland
I have for people listening. Can you explain what cern is?
So cern, uh, which basically for science for consul
European puller research nuclear
Basically means the commission
European commission for nuclear research
so in essence, um, I can make a really short answer and say it's one big
place where they do
nuclear research or
physics research
um, and give you slightly longer answer is that really it's a bunch of scientists who set up this
uh multinational
institution
to explore better our better understanding of what
Matter is and what what we're made up of
so, um, you know if
We're driven, I think as as humans to
Learn more about our world and whether it is okay, you know 500 years ago
We have, you know, the sailors. I wanted to explore the other side of the ocean
What's on the other side of the ocean, you know, people were going into africa. We, you know, we did, you know
The old cliche dark africa, you know, I want to explore what fun that is and then we've got, you know
aspects of nature and how how, you know, what is
Um, the fundamental reason why we have living things the way we do we have Charles Darwin and of course the discovery of
You know dna and so forth and in terms of physics
We're dealing with or what is the matter that we're made up of and you know, if you boil it down
What does it make up and so soon is just one progression step of that in terms of a better understanding of how it works so
in
a simplistic term
The way that we often understand what matter is made up of is to smash it
So hit it with particles and smash it up and see what those particles look like when they come off
and
The discovery of the electron was basically that
you know, basically firing a beam and what and and watching it what happens to it
and
CERN is just
magnifying that so
in essence
CERN is not just the large Hadron collider a lot of people think that CERN is just that large ring
CERN actually existed since 1954
Um with different particle accelerators or particle colliders
And the idea again is fire particles at matter and see what sprays off and if you look and measure what sprays off
You can understand what the structure is that you were smashing it into
So yeah, so what is the large hydron collider?
The large Hadron collider. Yep. How do you say it?
Hadron hadron
Yeah, but I'll explain that. Yeah
I'll explain. What does that mean?
Okay, so large Hadron collider really is a part of the institution of CERN, which is the
Basically in french the version of the european commission for nuclear research. Okay, and in essence CERN is a
physics institute that was set up in the early fifties
And supported by a number of member countries basically based in europe
And the idea with CERN is to understand what matter is so
Really what drives CERN and drives any scientific endeavor is
Discovering more about our world and how it works. So, you know, you've got of course in the 1500s
You've got the sailors moving across the oceans. What's on the other side? You've got the astronomers looking up to the sky
What is making up the stars and how does it move and so forth?
And, you know, we've got Newton, for example, and understanding, you know, their understanding of gravitation and so forth
You know, you've got scientists like Darwin with how life evolves
And you've got scientists like Watson Crick and and others who look at what's the fundamental nature of, you know, life
The dna aspect and so with physicists, they're understanding as well
What particularly with particle physicists is what's the fundamental nature of matter?
You know, we brought it down to atoms
But then we say well, hold on, we discovered that atoms are made up of other particles
And we call them protons and neutrons and electrons. Well, that was discovered in the early part of the 20th century
through experiments that are referred to as scattering experiments or
collision experiments
And and how that all works is, you know, obviously the derives what scientists do know no more
But then what happened is that they discovered that when they were looking at particles and and and, you know,
basically, um, seeing their behavior in certain experiments
They discovered a whole bunch of particles that could not be explained by using that idea of, you know, an atom is made up of a proton and a neutron and electron
Um, and so the quest was driven to say, well, can we learn more about what the proton than the neutron is, for example?
Are they what we refer to as fundamental particles? Are they truly indivisible?
right, or uh, or are they themselves made up of smaller particles still?
and so
CERN developed a whole series of what we call particle accelerators or scattering experiments, which basically is
Really simple, you know, if you smash things together and we're able to
um
Watch the the particles that come off
Then you have a better understanding of the conditions of what you were smashing
You know, it's sort of like it's a poor analogy in one sense, but it's basically a
let's say a
An investigator for in a car crash, you know, they don't see the car crash
All they see is the particles strewn everywhere
But if you analyze the particles, then you can work out how fast was that car going?
What was the other car doing at the time in the collision?
All right, so by looking at the remnants of the collision
You can have a better understanding of what occurred at the collision and what was involved in the collision
And that's really what particle accelerators do
But in this said we're not smashing cars together. We're smashing particles together such as electrons such as protons
um and um
And then seeing what comes off and then as a result
You can get an understanding of what makes up those particles. So
the
More energy you put into the system the more energy you can smash those particles
The more understanding you can have about what you're investigating
So in the case of the Large Hadeline Corralida, which is basically the largest particle accelerator in the world
um
It's basically smashing protons together and um and then seeing what comes off that
And when you measure what comes off that you have an understanding of what well first of all what the protons are
But also what is the fundamental nature of those protons?
Now this is where the term comes in a proton is simply what we refer to as a generic term of a hadron
So a hadron is basically
Uh a type of particle we now know that is made up of what we refer to as quarks
We may have heard the term before quark or quark
But in essence we know that a proton and a neutron are made up of quarks and both of them are made up of
Three quarks and so anything that is made up of quarks is called a hadron
And so that's why we call the Large Hadron Collider. We could call the Large Proton Collider
But what doesn't have to be a proton it could be something else
um, but
It's using a proton because protons are easily produced basically
Hydrogen is our main source of protons. So just a gas of hydrogen
Gas is you know, basically all that is injected into the Large Hadron Collider because basically that's what the hydrogen is
a bunch of protons
And how what's the scale of this thing?
Okay. Yep. So, um, again CERN is a very large place, but the Large Hadron Collider itself
is a ring
That is buried a hundred meters under the ground the ring is 27 kilometers in circumference
And in that you have these two beams of protons spinning around at close to the speed of light
and they're
The at four points on that ring are what we call particle detectors. So the two beams
are in two separate tubes going in opposite directions around this 27 kilometers track
And there are basically bunches of protons
Spinning around now the numbers are mind-boggling. So each bunch
That spins around contains about 100 billion protons
All right, and you got another 100 billion protons going in the opposite direction like this now
It's not just one bunch, but there's actually a whole series of bunches
um about separated about seven and a half meters around the tube
um, and
Then um, they spin so fast
That they go around that ring 11,245 times per second
So oh my god. Yeah, it's pretty fast, right?
So the number I always like to quote is okay
They travel at the speed just try to the speed of light 99.9999991
Percent of the speed of light now to give you a perspective of how fast that is
um, if you were to
Run around the world at that speed you could go around the world seven and a half times in one second. So
um, you know, it's incredibly fast
So what happens is is that those particles are now traveling so fast when you smash them
And this happens at what we call detectors and there are four of them on the ring
They basically make these two parts in crossover
So that these two bunches now meet at the detector and then hopefully these bunches
will have some collisions of these protons and
Of the hundred billion coming one way and about a hundred billion going the other way
You may get only a billion collisions in that around or even less, right? You don't get many collisions going on
But when I do happen
Like the car crash
You can measure what comes off it and those detectors are basically glorified
Machines that measure how fast they're going and what direction that they're going
Of the particles and if you can measure that then you can well work out what's going on here in terms of what those
what the collision entails and so
um
In essence, you know, it's a better understanding of
Well, how matter works. What's the nature of matter?
I just talking about
What are they taking away from these experiments like what
What is there to gain from smashing all these particles together and breaking them apart and and dissecting them and looking them?
What
How do you advance from that?
Okay, now that's a very good question
um
What drives first of all and I think at the point what drives scientists is a better understanding of how the world works
so
I get that question asked a few times. What's the value particularly on my youtube videos?
We've been going oh, what a waste of money, right?
let me
Let me draw out a few examples in history that ask you ask the same question
But it'll drive the point. I'm trying to make home
Michael Faraday. I'm actually familiar with the scientists the 19th century, right?
um
Was working with electricity. He discovered that electricity and magnetism
how they have an interconnection and
um
And you know electricity was very new at that time
um
Now this quote that I'm about to use is apocryphal. They're not sure
Where they actually he said it but someone basically said look, you know, what use is this electricity?
and his commenters will
I don't know, but I'm sure the government will one day will find a way to tax it
and you know the
Inside is is that oh this electricity. Is there any use for it?
But you know 50 years 100 years down the track. We know how useful it is
um
In the 1880s a hundred Hertz was
examining the concept of these waves
That a guy by the name of james and clerk max will discover I did a video on this
And he discovered these waves these electromagnetic waves
And the name that was given to them was radio waves
and
It was a very important experiment because it supported and validated what max will's research had done
He himself hurts had said I don't think there's any practical use for these waves, but they're interesting
You know and again 100 10 years later. We had marconi sending the first
Signal from new york to paris via radio waves, you know
And of course radio waves drives bluetooth drives wi-fi drives tv drives our telecommunications
you know
again
Had someone said Hertz stop researching. It's not worthwhile doing that because there's no use for society
Well, you know, what would we be missing out now?
right
And then in the 20s and 30s scientists were interested in particular tops of materials that behave strangely in that
normally when you heat a substance its
Resistance the ability to carry a current actually drops
But it is the micro friday had discovered this material called silicon or a determinate silicon actually increases its
conductivity when it raises its temperature a little bit
But understanding of why that led to what we refer to as often what we call semiconductor research
Um, again purely it was driven
By the fact of I want to know more. I want to know what's going on here in order to what drives this
but
from that
Came the concept of the transistor the integrated circuit
All our computer technology is based on that including solar cells as well, which is which also uses semiconductors
So I guess the question though, then I want to
Basically answer your question
There are aspects of certain and particle accelerators at this stage. You could say look
It's not about what we get out of it. It's not a basically a thing about simply about, you know
What we gain out of it as a society in terms of a practical use, right?
It's about
understanding nature
But I will add
There have been many
Benefits already that we've benefited from institutions such as soon
in 1989
But a guy by the name of Tim Berners-Lee
developed a
way of communicating information across a computer network
In order to come in order to support, you know, a communication between scientists at soon
He created the worldwide web. So, you know that came out of him
the idea of
You know
Using our phone and this what we refer to as capacitive touch the fact that there's a touch
Well, that came out of basically soon. They had this panel to this to basically control this
Particle accelerator. They had way too many buttons. How can we do it in such a way that we make one button do multiple things
Depending on what you touch. So a capacitive touch came out of that
We have technologies such as
PET scans. I'm not usually familiar with PET scans
but PET scans is basically
Using the concept of particles to diagnose and in some cases treat cancers. So using
Again
The technology we now have machines that are able to diagnose and treat cancers
Or pet technology and current research is using what we refer to as hadron
Therapy there's that word hadron again. Yeah, if we fire
A beam of protons or we can even use beam of electrons. I just read a recent article about
And
On cern's website actually of using a beam of electrons
We can actually treat cancers with far less side effects
So in essence to give you a short story assuming, you know, my coffee mug is my human body here
And I fire a beam of gamma radiation to treat a cancer
Well, I'm going to damage all the cells along as well as my tumor
And so what they do is to say, okay
I fire be if I'm a beam this way and a fire beam this way and a fire beam this way
And all the different places and they all intersect with the tumour is well
I'm going to kill the tumor
But I still will damage all those cells around it to a certain degree
right
They discovered that if you fire a beam of
Hadrons a beam of electrons
They actually behave differently. They actually drop most of their energy where you want them to
So in other words, you can actually cause a little very little damage, but then do all the damage where the
Tumour is
Now that technology comes out of the technology that cern's produced in order to understand nature
So, you know, no, we won't find necessarily a direct use of the fact that our protons and our neutrons are made up of quarks
But the technology that has been developed to work that out
Has had many and i'm just using a medical example that have been industrial material
Based technologies robotics and so forth that have come out of places such as cern
Because you know, there's technology someone said hold on that's really good to understand that
But you know what let's apply that to this situation
And all of a sudden we have now, you know utility out of
A discovery of our of our universe if that makes sense
so
Is that treatment that cancer treatment where they shoot the the
Hydrogen atoms or would yeah the protons. Yep hydrotherapy. Yeah, when they shoot the protons. Have they actually tested that on humans?
Yeah, uh, yeah, there's actually uh, yeah, it is actually a
Uh, feasible technology as we speak
However, the problem is the cost
So, um, it's not something that you can say, you know, every every corner a lot. Um
Hospital can have it. So there are a number of places in I think that I can't quite don't quote me on this
But I think there are two or three centers in europe. They currently offer hydrotherapy
Um, there may be a few more it but it's it's an emerging technology, but yes, it has been used to successfully treat kansas
um, and so
Yeah, I I the issue that's that stops of growing is the
It's simply the cost factor, you know in order to reduce that
So, um, but that's that's been true for a lot of machines. So, you know, I'm not sure if you've ever had an MRI
magnetic residence imaging
In any in many respects our understanding of matter through the work from CERN and Fermilab and all others that
Really is as a
It's basically the reason why we have machines such as MRI machines, for example
Um, you know, if you want to if you were in the 70s and wanted to get MRI the doctor would laugh at you like it was like
You know, it's too expensive. You know, there's only a few places now. Now, of course MRI machines are basically found in any any small town
Because the the technology is improved and the cost of running is improved and so forth
Um, same with, you know, uh CT scans same same thing, you know, CT scans were developed in the 80s and 40s and 50s
But didn't really come into their own until much in the 70s and 80s because of costs being reduced and so forth. So
I recently read an article
talking about how CERN
Was experimenting with their collider trying to make
Their own encapsulated black holes
Yeah, yeah, is this true?
Look, yes in one sense. Yes, theoretically
so they would love to be able to
make these what we refer to as
uh, quantum black holes or primordial black holes
Quantum black holes or primordial? Yeah, the the reason
Okay, so they call quantum because they're incredibly small. Okay. Okay. Um, we're not talking about the black holes that we have
It's interesting. We talk about this. Um, I'm not sure if you're aware, but the Nobel Prize of physics was only announced
12 hours ago. Was it really?
Yeah, yeah, and Roger Penrose
Um, I got half of that prize for his work on the black hole
So the black hole understanding prior to the work of Roger Penrose and Stephen Hawking was just a theoretical model
based on Einstein's
work on relativity
but it was Penrose and Hawking who
really established the fact. Yes, they can exist. It's not a hypothetical and the other two recipients
Their name escapes me right now. Basically
their work was on discovering a black hole
in the center of our galaxy
But let me let me give you an idea here of what the black hole is
I think that's important
Because a lot of people think black hole is massive gobbly big giant thing that's swapping up all matter around it
And you know movies like interstellar show you that but there've been lots of other movies that have used that as a almost a horror effect
Yeah, Andrew Steller was a great one. Oh, that's one of my favorites. Uh, and it actually
is
One of the few movies that got the physics right and it helped really help
Yeah
And the reason why is that the book is it's based on a book by Kip Thorne and Kip Thorne is a cosmologist astrophysicist
And he was very clear with Chris Nolan. He said look
I get this is a creative license
required in the movie
Right, but you can't break the laws of physics. You must
You must stick to the laws of physics that you can't break that and so Chris Nolan
Followed that and so as a result
The little of the physics in the movie is very true very accurate in terms of time dilation and all sort of stuff
It is so it is so my I had to watch it like three times just to understand and grasp what was happening and how
the dad
Didn't age a day, but his daughter
aged a hundred years and he was changing history
That's almost impossible to explain to somebody if you're having a regular conversation
It is it is and uh, and yet we know that we you know, we digress away from this like whole stuff for a second
but
um
The fact is is that we know that to be true
so, you know how
Uh, the bad age doesn't age right the time
passes differently
Then for the daughter on earth, right? Right the fact the fact is that your gps machine on your phone
It works at all is because of that principle
Let me explain gps is basically resultant of
A set of satellites in orbit around the earth in low earth orbit
But at any point there are four satellites that have direct line of sight to your phone
And so they send signals back and forth to your receiver and to the phone and use a process of what we call trilateration
It's basically triangulation if you can know the distance from those satellites then the satellites and your phone can work at its position
Right, okay, and so it's basically trying, you know, if you draw three circles
Right, there's only one or two points where those circles all intersect
Right, and so if you know the distance of those circles, you can work out where you are in terms of that position
But that requires exceptionally good timekeeping
The satellites must be completely in sync of time because otherwise they can't work out your distance
so
The problem is is that the satellites are moving but you're not relatively to to the earth
And so the satellite because it's in orbit
right, it actually
ages
slower
Than you or I now it's not like interstellar where there's major differences here the earth's gravitation of pool isn't like a black hole
So as a result the satellite maybe ages
In literally nanoseconds difference compared to you and I now you may say well that means nothing
Yeah, but for exact accurate timekeeping. That's absolutely essential
and so
They designed the gps satellites clocks to actually run a little faster
So that when they're moving
And their clock slows down by the fact that they are moving just like interstellar
They are now in sync with your clock
Which means they're going to accurately measure that if scientists were not being if they didn't account for this
Time delay this or this time what we call dilation
your your mobile phone gps could be out as much as five ten kilometers and
You think about it five ten kilometers if you're lost in a bush or lost somewhere
That's a significant difference that you don't want
so
So although interstellar is a bit mind-boggling we know it to be true
We have the experiments that verify this and you know our technology
Recognize on it. So so is it the farther you get away from earth the slower
You age it's actually about your speed. It's about your speed and how there's two things that affects this time
Change one is your speed
So if I were to travel really fast compared to you
If you were to measure my time it would be slower
The story I give to my students is this
Is let's say I there's a nearby star our closest star apart from our sun by the way
Is what we're referred to as proximus centauri now proximus centauri is about 4.3 light years away
Now that means light travels
4.3 years just to get from there
right
so
You know if that star were to go dead right now
We wouldn't find out about it for another 4.3 years because it takes 4.3 years
For the light to get to us
Right, so that's how far that our newest star is
Now, let's say you decide to
Well, how about I decide because I think I'm a few years older than you how about I decide to travel
To alpha centauri, but I can't travel on the spaceship. Let's say that's
At that speed
But I can at least travel at a fraction of the speed of light and let's say it takes me five years to get there
Not 4.3
And I go there and I come back
And I've been gone according to my clock
10 years five years to five years back, right?
But because I've been moving relative to you
My time ticks a little slower
Which means when I return
I would look at my watch and say hey Danny. I've been gone for 10 years
And you'll say no paul you've been gone for 14 years
And you would have aged 14 years and I would have aged 10 years and our age gaps gone a bit closer
All right, so that's what we call time dilation
So that time is shift right is because there's movement between you and I again that sounds weird
It absolutely sounds weird, but that experiment evidence is there to support it. It's you know, science is weird sometimes
We just don't know but it happens that way
Um, and so that's the motion that we have
The other aspect that affects time is your closeness to a gravitational field
So the fact that our satellites in orbit our GPS satellites are moving
Is one factor that changes the time
But it's also the fact that gravity is different where they are than where we are
And so that also affects it and that's why for example in the case of
You know Matthew McConaughey in interstellar
He was moving
Right close to this black hole
And if you remember in the movie they talked about going to one of these planets, which were closer into
Giganjuan, which was the name they gave to that black hole and they reckon hold on if we stay out here
We're going to lose so many years
But if we move closer to Giganjuan and come back again
We're going to lose decades difference, you know, and therefore they had to make it really short time to get to that planet there and back
right and um, and so again that because
The gravitational strength is stronger closer to the planet and that affects how time works as well
Wow, so
You know, yeah, that's how it works. It's super fascinating
Back to the question you asked me immediately, right? Yes. Yeah. Yeah back to what we were talking about black holes
Creating black holes at CERN
So let's talk about what a black hole is
So a black hole is basically to an object whose gravitational strength is so strong that light doesn't escape it
but
What matters is two things a how big it is in other words how what's its mass
but secondly
Where that actually occurs where the strength is so strong that light doesn't escape it
is
dependent on how far away you're from it
So in the terms of Giganjuan
Right, it was a superman. We're talking about a star in that case was probably
I don't know in terms of what Kipthorn was thinking, but I imagine that it was roughly
the size of let's say
Half of the solar system. It was a huge thing, right? We're talking about if you place Giganjuan where the sun is
It would stretch right past where earth is so we're talking about a really really really big object, right?
If I flip that around and said let's let's make the sun the black hole shrink it down, right?
We're now dealing with an object that is smaller than the city of new york, right?
We're not dealing with a really big object
But the mass of it is still the same
Which means that if I did that the earth wouldn't get sucked in
Mercury wouldn't get sucked in. They'd all stay in their orbit exactly the same thing because they're still that distance away from the center
You have to be really close and I'm talking about in this case. You have to be really meters from it, right?
Or the the mathematics basically it says maybe only a couple of kilometers from it
For it to actually really start being so strong that light can't escape it
So if you get that concept the fact that
If a black if we create a black hole the only ability of it to suck matter in means it has to have a very strong gravitational field
Very very close to it
Right, so let's now go to our primordial black holes, which soon hypothetically could make
Um, they don't make it by the way. They at the moment that they don't have the energy requirements to do that
Um, we're dealing here with objects that are
To the order of the size I say 10 to the power of negative 35 meters now that number means nothing
But if I were to take a primordial black hole, so to speak
And increase it to the size of a
Let's say, um, why is it called a primordial black hole?
Okay, because we believe and this is the reason why it's because they believe that the early part of the big bang
Early part of the universe created these little primordial black holes
Okay, the theory suggests the mathematical theory suggests
They were part of the early stages of the universe and i'm talking about the early fractions of a second of the big bang
All right, and this is what soon is trying to do. So look, it's not just about what matter is made up of
But can we somehow
Create in a very very very small space and I make that point particular clearly because a lot of conspiracy theorists get this wrong
They want to create the early conditions of the of the big bang, right?
And they go all that energy that's dangerous and so forth
But hold on we're talking about energy in it really really really really tiny small space
So we're not talking about a huge amount of energy overall
We're talking about a really compact amount of energy in a really really small space, you know
to give you an analogy
right if I
Got if you've ever been seen hopefully
Terminated to where arnie sinks into the the vat of molten iron and I say how hot hot is that?
It's about a thousand degrees. Well, that's a hot right?
or a thousand degrees celsius or about 2000 fahrenheit
um
And then I say to my students what about those sparklers that you have at new year's eve parties
How hot are they and they go? Oh, that's not hot. Well, that's actually I say
It's about the same temperature. It's about 2000 degrees fahrenheit or 1000 degrees celsius
And they go what what's good? It's because that energy is packed in a really really really small spot
It's not the total. No, no, it's packing a really really small spot
And that's what temperature is temperature is a measurement of how much energy is in a really really really small spot
And so when you know, it's not the total and so when we say we want to create the conditions of the early big bang
We want to create the same temperatures in a really really really small spot
But it's not a total amount of energy in the sense of all-encompassing destroy the world type of energy in any expression
Does that make sense?
Total totally makes sense. Good. I guess the question is like can they can they
Can it slip out of their hands and can it just
Expand beyond their control without them under with I think a lot of people just don't understand what you just described
Okay, of course it could slip on your hand. Have you ever had a sparkler?
Let's get out of control and the sparks laying your hand. Did your hand suddenly explode?
But it could like it could like it could light a fort. It could let your house on fire, right?
Yes, that's true, but we're dealing here with okay. It's got to ignite something else that is itself got
Distorted energy, you know, if I sparkly hit say a vat of of
Of gasoline, uh, yeah, that's dangerous, but it's not the sparks problem
It's the fact that you had gasoline beside you that could react with that little bit of energy
And in the end of in the case of the big bang
The the cern had on collider the amount of energy in those collisions
It did actually happen that the in terms of they had an a a an accident
Now people go excellent, but again put this into context
The way that cern's particle accelerators work is that they have to
Create these really really powerful magnets to make that turn around that 27 kilometer loop
And the only way you can make those really powerful magnets is using what we refer to as electromagnets
So, you know a electromagnet most people know basically it's a coil if you're on a kind through it
It has acts as a magnet
And your doorbell works on that principle
But the problem is if you want a strong magnetic field you need a very strong kind
And if you want a strong kind you need a kind that's so high it doesn't melt the wire
So what they do is they cool these electromagnets down
To under three kelvin now to give you perspective
That's minus 456 degrees fahrenheit. So we're talking about really cold temperatures that they keep this in
and um
Only then can they have the magnetic field strong enough to turn my hadons around
now
In 2008 when they first ran the machine the beam actually
Lost its direction and it hit the sides of the tube that was in
The problem there is it heated up the side of the tube
which caused the
Gas the helium in this case helium was the liquid it's liquid helium. That's that temperature
Caused it to raise in temperature all of a sudden the electromagnets weren't working properly because the temperature was higher
And as a result this liquid helium went from a liquid state to instantly gas state while the gas expands
and as a result
It blew a hole in the pipe now
That hole in the pipe damaged a number of electromagnets in there
But it wasn't the case of the total destruction
No, no, it was basically a gas release an explosion caused instrument
But that was the end of the story and it took a few months to fix it up
So you can't make this energy escape, you know
Another way of thinking about it is that the energy of these collisions that's occurring here
Between these two protons is equivalent to the energy of a beating mosquito that amount of energy, right?
Remember the energy we're talking about is not is all encompassing energy
You know, it's the energy in a really really really tiny spot
But if you want to work out well, how much energy is actually there? Well, it's equivalent to a mosquito, right? So
We're not dealing with
World destroying energies amount here. We're dealing with temperatures
In a really really confined spot and even if it does ran out of control
Yes, it might damage the equipment, but it's not going to be a case of you know, it's not going to be an explosion or you know
just
you know, you know
Put it this way the people in Geneva have got nothing to worry about and CERN's based into Geneva, right?
If something happened in CERN, they would never know about it
In fact, if you were just across the border in France in the small town and I've crossed that border
Literally, it's 10 meters away from one of the
from one of the
uh detectors
If something happened, you wouldn't know about it because
The amount of energy released is extremely small in the total amount if it happened to that makes sense
Absolutely, we haven't answered the black hole question yet. Right, right, right, right?
So the black hole these primordial black holes are incredibly small, right?
We're not dealing with
gargantuan sizes and I said to you
How about we try to get a perspective of how small these black holes are?
if I were to take these primordial black holes and
magnified its size to about the size of about a millimeter across a few millimeters across
Then comparatively a grain of sand
We get this a grain of sand in that comparison
Will be more than 10 times the size of our known universe
Let me let's stick that with you
Let me put it another way if I have a guy if I have a gray a millimeter a few millisiter black hole
Okay, and I say well, what's the size of an atom?
Right in that comparison
Well, the atom would be the size of our solar our milky way our galaxy our milky way
So can you see the perspective here? I'm trying to say is is that these black holes are not big
They are incredibly small
Right, and the only way they can we can register their existence
Is of their energy that they give off?
And we're talking about an incredibly small amount of energy
Right, so these black holes are really really small
now people say well
So who cares if they're small they can grow and I want to give three reasons why you shouldn't be worried
The first thing is that we the theory is now
You know steven hawking everyone knows of steven hawking. Yeah, uh develop the theory that basically black holes do evaporate
They do actually radiate some energy. So over time they actually shrink
Now the rate at which they shrink is dependent on their size
So the black holes such as in gargantuan. Well, they would take trillions literally trillions of years to evaporate away
But our little
Tiny quantum black hole that cern could create would practically evaporate within a microsecond
Incredibly small time. They would not survive long at all. So that's the first reason
The second thing is as I told you they're so small that
They would not actually be anywhere near any other matter to suck energy in remember my
Analogy of my grain of sand right and my atom is the size of the galaxy
right, well
What's the likelihood of this grain of sand or this little tiny particle as it moves to actually hit anything
When most of the atom is empty space
Right, it it's highly unlikely to ever ever ever strike anything
Now remember it has to strike something within a given time
and
It only lasts a fraction of a fraction of a second again. It's not going to suck
anything in before
completely
disintegrates
and the last thing
is this
people say cern is doing these energy experiments and
It's never been done before and I tell you actually the energies that cern does
Happens every day above our heads
so
We have things called cosmic rays out in space and they strike the atmosphere
And hit the particles the gas particles as you know these cosmic rays come in and those cosmic rays have energies far higher than anything
That cern has produced so in other words what cern is doing is actually a miniature version of what's already happening
At our atmosphere
We know this was we detected cosmic rays in the 20s in the 30s in the 40s. We know it exists
if
They were to get energies to create black holes and the cosmic rays were already creating them
In our atmosphere remember these black holes would probably be created, but then pop out of existence
Well, we're still here. So the fact is is that
if cern was able to make black holes then
Our atmosphere would be creating them all the time other stars would be bombarded other objects other planets other stars
also bombarding by these cosmic rays
and
We would be having black holes being created all the time now again
We're still here
Right. So the fact is is that
The chances are is is not and I think part of the problem
I think what really is confusing and I um
Is this the physicists have a have a tendency to go?
Oh, I wonder what happens and like this and you know
Just hypothetically in a very tone low key. And so when they say yeah, we might be able to create black holes
And someone says well, can we be dangerous to make oh, yeah
Well, what and all of a sudden the media grabs on that and is like, oh, that's dangerous and so forth
And in fact, john ellis, uh, who's a theoretical physicist based at cern
I I didn't I didn't actually get the chance to talk to him, but I did see him walking around
He does look like a crazy wild here. What a hairy guy
He was asked he was basically asked the same question
Can it happen and he simply said no, you know, he was blunt as is in the sense of no
Absolutely not, you know, and it's just it doesn't help if some physicists just sort of, you know, you know
Hypothetically talk about this while the media is going to go and reality is the answer is no
It's just not going to happen and as I said to you before
Cern hasn't done it yet. I haven't got the energies
In their collisions to create that as as yet
Can you explain what dark matter is? Great question. So
I can answer that in by saying yes, I'll answer that and then I can say also I have no idea
And scientists don't have any idea. So let me explain
So our universe is made up of matter and we know that already and we
understand how matter works because in essence
It it it has gravity it there is a gravitational field
So the fact that you and I are sitting on the earth is the fact that we have mass and we're you know, we behave
You know, you jump off a two-story building you will experience gravity and it's not going to come out good
And so if we study how objects behave in our universe
And we can see how they move
Then we understand something about the mass of that particle, right?
Or the mass of the object because of the footway that gravity works
But in the late 1990s and
and subsequently
There were a series of experiments a cosmological experience astronomical experience for studying galaxies
That discussed that looked at how they actually rotated how they moved in a circle
And they discovered that if they measured all the mass
in that galaxy
Um, it did not and therefore work out how much matter there was
From by measuring how fast it spun remember based on gravity
They had a problem because if they measured the mass by counting the number of stars and all the gases in there that they can read off
And then measure the mass about how it behaves under gravity
The mass that it had was far far higher than what they measured
in other words
The galaxy and other galaxies as well not just one galaxy, but other galaxies and how they work
Work had far more mass
Than what we measured
So in other words, there's some matter there some stuff that has mass
But we can't measure it
directly
But it is there
So we have no idea what it is
dark matter
so
So as a result, you know, we discover that there's a significant portion of our universe that has
Gives it far more mass
But we can't measure it directly whenever we try to compare it
to our direct measurements of
Matter by measuring the stars are measuring, you know, and it can be can be done
quite with quite great precision and how much, you know, but the gassets there
They always come up less
And then there's a second problem
The other aspect is that the universe we know is expanding
But because the universe has mass overall the initial view is is that well, hopefully
What the does is that the gravity because of the expansion is due to the big bang
And hopefully what'll happen is that mass
Will cause gravity causes it to come back in again
Right and now and so, you know, if if you read the textbooks of the
70s and 80s, they said well, what's the universe going to be ending like?
Well, maybe we'll have what we call the big big crimes
The universe will expand and then collapse in on itself and then repeat the process
Or maybe it's going to be static
So it's going to be just at a point where it just grows and eventually the expansion is about equal to the gravity and it'll just sit there like that
What they discovered and
Which by the scientists by the name of brian schmidt got a Nobel Prize he and his team for in 2011
Is that the universe is not just moving out. It's speeding up
It's going faster and faster out
and so
The came the idea is that well, there's this other energy that is actually driving the universe outwards
that goes against gravity
Or negative energy if you want to say it that way and they came to term dark energy
So whenever you talk to scientists astronomers about dark matter
Inevitably, they will also raise the idea of dark energy
But there is the universe
But if we measure the universe that only five percent of our total universe is ordinary matter
Everything else is dark matter and dark energy
and so
You know
The question then is well, what is that matter?
All right, and this is the question you really ask. What is dark matter?
It's the matter out there that we can't measure
But clearly it's having its influence on our universe
But we don't know what it is
so
There are all weird types of names that scientists give to the possible
reasons for what this dark matter is
terms such as
Q balls, which is a weird name a wimps, which basically means for weak interacting massive particles
But they don't know what it is, right? It's just a name
and one of cern's
desires in their experiments is that if they smash the particles
protons hadrons of whatever and other the other particle accelerators that occur there
Is maybe they can find some evidence
for particles
that could explain that missing matter
but
Like I said, the big problem with dark matter is it's
It it we can't detect it and the way that we detect it
Is either it has an electrical charge so we can bend it in electric fields and magnetic fields
Or it gives off radiation
um and
But it doesn't none of that and so
You know, you can fire stuff at it
You know if you wanted to do it that way, but if it doesn't interact with it
Then you'll never know you'll never know that it exists there
You know the fact that you are staring at my screen
And seeing me is because lights hitting me and bouncing off and hitting the camera and it's interacting with me
Right and you therefore know i'm sitting there and I know you're sitting there
But if the light passes straight through me
Then you'd never know I was there
Right, so the fact is that light or particles has to somehow interact with me
And cause me to do something to that in order to measure it
And that's the problem with dark matter. We look for all the ways of trying to
Do something hit it with something or in the case of particle excited areas try to discover particles that could have the properties
That would explain
Why we don't see it in our galaxies, but it's there
It's there, but we just don't
No, you know, we don't we can't directly measure it and then that's dark matter
Right, it's dark because we don't know what it is
You know, it's out of our out of our vision so to speak, but it's definitely showing its influence
Super intriguing name for it too dark matter or dark energy. It's super heavy metal sounding
Is
But you know scientists sometimes have the weirdest ways of naming things
I mean really like like dark matters literally like I had no idea
It's really where the name came out of dark, you know, the old idea mentioned quark
Right, uh, it was like what sort of name is that?
Well, it's actually a direct quote from a book by james joyce called finnegan's wake and the person who developed the theory
By the name of marigold man
He just liked the phrase from, you know
A common the exact quote but the word quark appears that means oh, I like that. So, you know, just tell that idea
So the we have some weird names, but yeah
In essence the dark simply means you don't know we have no idea
So what does that mean for
For us if the universe is
ever expanding versus going back in
Directly not much
so, um
there is, um
In essence it's speeding up, but what that means
In the life of the universe, let's talk about that
But eventually all that energy is going to go it's going to dissipate so
in in
The long scheme of things the universe if it continues the way it does will eventually die out
All the stars will stop burning that will run out of their fuels
You'll have stars going to black holes
It'll be anything left and the end and other black bodies and in essence
It's just what dark dark matter is left over
Dark matter and other matter as well, but it won't be
But okay dark matter in a sense we just talked about but also any real matter the normal matter
Will be dark in that sort of it won't release radiation. It won't have light anymore. So it will just go black
now, um
It's terrifying, but we're talking about something that's going to occur
in
Over the trillions of trillions of years here. We're not talking about something anytime immediate. I think
In terms of humanity our more immediate pressing problem
In an astronomical sense is the death of our own son
So our death of our own son is probably going to occur in about
Well, you know give or take maybe three to four billion years time
Now people go. Oh my goodness. That's a problem. But you know life has existed on the earth
for only about
You know two billion years and I'm talking about primordial life
Right the earth itself has only existed for four and a half billion years
and humanity as we know it we're only dealing with a few
You know
100,000 years and so forth, you know osteopithecus, which is one early human and ancestors so to speak
You know two million years ago and that is one
You know one
You know a fraction of the life of the earth
So you and I won't have any problems with our son and I think we have far more issues of
Humanity destroying itself through other means. So, you know, we say it's terrifying
But for you and I right here, you know, it has really no really impact at all
But I guess it's again about science saying look, we'd like to know how this works
We know what what the braces is behind it, you know
It's not about as I said to you before about learning
For the sake of what can we get out of it? It's about understanding our place in the universe, you know
How it works, you know, that's driven humanity from day one
That we want a better understanding of the world we live in and our place in it and science is basically that
It's about understanding who we are
And what's our place in our universe and how it all works and how it fits
And allowing our mind to go. Wow. This is an amazing place, you know
And and and even more amazing when we work off some of the details of how it works
Whether it's in the really small which is, you know, that quantum world which is what cerm discovers
Or the really big where we look at astronomers and cosmologists and say how the universe works
And interestingly CERN is dealing with both because they're wanting to understand the
nature of matter at the quantum level
But also understanding dark matter to say look that gives us understanding of our cosmos as well, you know
It's about the search for meaning and the search for understanding and that's really what science is
It's saying why does it work this way? It's back to my very first thing. I said
You know, scientists are basically
People who haven't lost that sense of why is that daddy? Why isn't that mummy? No, they've stuck with that and they've
You know taken that into their field
And worked out why, you know, and if we end up developing these technologies to benefit mankind benefit humanity and so forth
Fantastic, but that's not why they do it. They do it because I want to know why I want to know, you know
And they're excited by the discoveries that they make in the process
That's amazing, man
Well, hey, I'm a little bit crunched for time today. We had to cut it to about an hour and 15 minutes, but um
I really appreciate you doing this. I want to do a follow-up down the road for sure
Where we can sit here for a couple hours and go through some stuff
um
What was your last name your first name is paul paul by last name is loyan l-o-y-n
um
And so yeah, um, how can people find you people listening to this?
How can they find you on youtube and yeah, so yeah, so my
My tags are big is physics high. So
Uh in youtube, you'll find me there. Uh facebook physics high twitter physics high
Um, I I have instagram and physics high though. I haven't used it as much
But basically and then I have a website as well, which is funnily enough. Www physics high dot com
Um, so that's the way to find me and uh, like I said, if you go there
You'll see a lot of sort of straight physics content
But um, I hope that people can see to follow me because I'm hoping to you know do more
General stuff in terms over time as well. Um, I'm a full-time teacher. So it's a real balancing act
I'd love to be able to get enough subscribers that I can you know, maybe go part-time teaching and so forth and
Put more time in my youtube and communication of science because that's what I really am passionate about communicating science and physics
Uh, but um, you know, it's it's that's critical. That's critical. Not just understanding it. I mean anyone can not anyone but
It's one thing to understand it and and have the knowledge is another thing to be able to communicate that to the world and to everybody else
that's
that's
Just as important as having the information
Totally totally totally totally. I mean, I think um, one of the things I always
I strive towards and I'm not so I get it
But I love it when I hear students say I really love physics and why do you love physics because I had a teacher who really
Was passionate and communicated that passion towards me
And you know, and I I'm always excited by the fact that people are switched on the science because
Someone took the time to communicate it effectively to them and as a result, you know, they
um where um
Drive home. Can I give you a little story that I picked up at CERN? Something really
That drives that particular point home. I um met up with a guy named David fish and maybe he watches this as well
he's actually
a teacher consultant for the perimeter Institute, which is a
Physics Institute based in Toronto, Canada and
He gave some of the presentations that we had at CERN and he shared about a student when he was in teaching about a student
He said um, was a little bit lost didn't know what to do
And he just encouraged her and said, you know what? I think you should look do a bit of research and
Look into what dark matter is. It's really usually dark matter here
and she's went okay, and so she did that and
it switched life on
and as a result she did a physics degree and as a result
Of the physics degree she decided to go into particle physics
and as a result of particle physics, she got a position at CERN
and um and and as a result, you know, basically was in the team for the particle detectors from that
Now I'm still a day after he presented that I'm sitting at lunch in CERN with Dave next to me
And he was talking to this girl on the other side and the girl said to me
She was talking to Dave and she said, you know, I've really been passionate about this atlas experiment involved
But I think I might go to this other project over here at CERN and so forth
And all of a sudden the penny dropped the girl that I was talking to across me was the girl that I he actually had
Just switched on with dark matter when she was in high school, you know
So here's this girl who is gone from this
Encouraging to do dark matter because one teacher took the time to just invest some time into her
And now she was doing great things at CERN. She was just not doing a PhD
She was now employed full-time at CERN and looking for other ways to
In, you know, to explore science and I and I think that's the key, you know, you ignite a passion, you know
With knowledge and explored. Yes, it takes determination. Yes, you need to work harder
It's no quick feeding like social media or whatever. You've got to take time
But it's so rewarding when you invest that time in learning and aren't continue
You know, I tell you the viewers
Keep asking questions. Why why why and take the time to look for the answers and uh, that's the way science works
That's amazing, man. Such a cool story
Yeah, it does it takes a it takes a lot
You got to put you got to put the time in and there's no instant gratification with this kind of stuff
Nothing that nothing that's worth anything is is instant
That's right. That's exactly right. You said that exactly right. Yeah. Well, thanks again
and uh
And then hopefully we can do this again in the future
I'd love to love to Danny. Cool, man. Thanks again, Paul
