Orma is weakening as it continues northward
over the western portion of the Florida Peninsula. Right now it's about 20 miles northwest of
Lakeland, Florida and about 25 miles to the northeast of Tampa. Maximum winds are near 85 miles per
hour. That makes it a category one hurricane now and it's moving north northwestward at about 15
miles per hour.
Once we get the all clear and then short bolts here it makes the decision, makes the all call.
Right, right. Yeah we can start letting residents but until then we haven't even let residents in.
Why? That's pretty weird. Okay, so let's go in. All right well thank you for your help.
You lost your shades. The eye passed over us last night at like midnight. All the bridges are
closed. The cops won't let us on the bridge because for whatever reason structural engineering
on the bridge is safety. So now we caught a couple of cheap Sam's Club kayaks
and we're going across the intercoastal to the beach. Check this out, sir.
Look at all those cops. They're all coming down.
Let's go north.
How long can they open the bridges back up? They're saying four but man they have some other
issues because Treasure Island has no sewage.
Storm is expected to continue moving northward or north northwestward across northern Florida
and continuing to weaken as it does that likely to move into the state of Georgia, the center of
the system anyway, later in the day on Monday or Monday evening and then continue northwest across
the southern states and eventually weakening out into a depression. One of the more significant
impacts from here on out are likely to be the very heavy rain.
They think it was a microburst. If the normal wind in the hurricanes 50 miles an hour,
a microburst can be 115 and it took these two. It took one over there and went through a house.
Transformers on the ground. They've got to get this fixed before they bring electricity back in
or if they bring the electricity back in. So you know, at least there's still water in the pool.
We're in the aftermath of the hurricane. We're going to feed the seniors and
uh make sure everybody's happy, not hungry, and okay we got power on, we're doing good.
About 250 people are living in this building. The building is 17 stories high full of
disabled people, physically and mentally. We got roast chicken, peas and carrots, and mashed
potatoes. I have to tell you how many people are impressed with all your respect and uh. Well,
you know if you don't feed them they can't pay their rent so and then the money we save the
electricity being off we can pay for the food. There you go. Great, thank you so much. All right,
thank you. I made it myself. Well, yeah it looks good, huh? Thanks. It was the worst storm I've ever
been in in 35 years. It's hard, you know. It went through a major hurricane. The food's all spoiled.
You know, what do you want? You got to keep people fed. You know, nine people died in the
senior building in Hollywood, Florida. Nine people died because of the heat and lack of food and
keeping our tenants alive. Can't pay their rent if they're dead. You got to give a damn. We only
hear for a short period of time.
