A hundred and eighty-five mile an hour sustained wind close to the center of the storm, category
five hurricane, that pressure at about nine hundred and fourteen millibars, very, very
low.
You know, this is the strongest hurricane that there's ever been in the Atlantic basin outside
of the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico.
Once the winds reach over thirty-five miles an hour, they put the draw bridges up and
you cannot come on the island and you cannot leave the island.
It's crazy, like, the spaghetti models are basically split at this point.
Half of them are going up the east coast, half are going up the west coast, like, it
seems like nowhere is safe at this point.
Once it gets within fifty to a hundred miles of Florida, that's when it's going to be,
like, going to be crucial because it's either going to go up the west coast or it's going
to go up the east coast and that's going to give us, like, six to eight hours to make
a serious decision, you know?
I'll send you the side-by-side of this morning's update and update that just posted at two
thirty, bro.
It's like, it's like a mirrored image of Florida except spaghetti models are moving into the
Gulf slowly.
Now, I just left home depot and I'm walking down the isles.
There are no batteries at all.
There's no flashlights, there's no plywood except scraps.
There's like twenty people waiting in line to grab up whatever they have left in there,
you know?
It's fucking nuts.
I've been passed five gas stations, there are a lot of gas.
I went to the publics, I got the last two packs of hot dog buns, there's a little bread,
there's not a single roll of toilet paper in all of them.
So it's Thursday, September 7th.
Right now we're driving down Bel Air Beach, which is just south of Clearwater Beach,
which is just west of Tampa Bay.
So right now we're headed to the Clearwater Beach marina.
A lot of people at that marina live on sailboats.
Do you get down here by the shore?
Nah, I'm staying.
Staying?
Live on a boat.
Six o'clock, they're going to close the bridge coming over here.
I think it's stupid to have them reach a key.
Two of them.
There's my boat.
I've rode out some about 88 mile an hour winds before.
The way this is tied off, the pylons will be gone in case anything else leaves.
You finding gas anywhere still?
Most of those places are closed up.
Here at the marina.
Have you met our friend America that lives on this boat?
I believe he's got a cat head.
Yeah, long hair.
I got one too.
Nice, cats are cool.
So what are you doing to get ready for the storm?
It's ready.
I'm ready.
All hell might break loose, but...
I've been on that boat now six years.
Six years?
Come December.
I started to go down after the Holiday Inn.
We called about a slip and the guy gave us one down now, but it's in the wrong direction.
For me, I'm headed north.
You keeping your cat with you?
Oh yeah.
I've sailed back and forth now for six years.
I go north normally in the summer and come down here in the winter.
How long have you had this spot?
Two and a half months, maybe two months.
I'm taking this head sail off because I've heard from multiple sailors that one of the
worst things that can happen is that sail, the lines break and it comes un-pulled and
then the whole sail gets caught in the wind and it'll fuck up all the boats around you.
So it's not just for my sake, but kind of like a courtesy.
It's got to be this one.
Go into the wind.
Go into the wind and un-purl it.
Un-purl it into the wind.
No, you let it furl out into the wind.
Sorry.
This isn't funny, dude.
I don't want that number completely, but I got a number on my arm right here and I'm ready to go.
That's my social security number.
This is a mandatory evacuation and this isn't funny.
If you want to do something, put the fucking camera down and grab a fucking line.
Well, I think the pelicans are still hanging out and the little snowy egrets down there, you see that little bird?
They know.
They know what?
They know the weather.
And they're still here.
They're still here, so if they were afraid, they'd be gone.
It's a nice day.
You'd never know a storm was coming.
I got tears in my eyes right now, dude.
I'm going to lose my shit.
Right now we're actually headed to Madeira Beach, home of the Deccans.
The vibe around this whole town right now is just eerie.
It's hard to explain.
I'm fricking feeling good and loving life and getting ready for this hurricane party.
I'm going to sit in jail and find the cool people that are going to hang out.
I'm already talking to some locals that are going to hang and fricking, they're going to be here.
You're not scared?
No, I'm not really, because I can always stick my thumb out and hit you right out here somewhere.
I'm already blowing off of my canoe or something.
I'm living on the beach now.
I got my little condo in the sand.
The worst thing, I can go and find a condo and stairwell and go up like two, three levels because they're pretty safe.
Some of these buildings are built really.
Most of them are locked down.
I got a super secret place that might be able to hit and go stay in a stairwell that way.
I'm going to be safe from the wind and the waves and all that stuff.
The liquor store is going to be closed, which really sucks.
7-Eleven rumored might stay open, but everything's closed, so I might have to starve for three days.
But whatever, it'll be all right.
In the daytime, because I'm trying to fight skin cancer, I go under the bridge because it's shady.
I'll sit under there, but that's almost washed out.
It's going to wash out after the storm.
Do you have a phone?
No.
It's in the bottom of the Caribbean, right?
Trying to shop for some food.
Ain't no food, though.
I don't know. I didn't get very many non-perishables, but...
What do you think about the hurricane?
I think we're going to survive it.
We're going to ride it out, bro.
Yeah?
Hell yeah.
Ride it out?
Bro, we ain't got no damn choice where we're going to go.
I said, I got my canoe in the back.
Bro, it's all good, bro.
We're going to be an average rain, like Noah did, bitch.
The water coming and we just...
Like Noah's Ark?
Yeah.
I go around 8 o'clock.
I want to go to the beach.
And I got these heavy-duty garbage bags.
They just fill up like you're in the airport.
Put like a...
You know, still ten of them, like a quarter of a way.
Okay.
Ride out on the beach, you know?
Yeah.
Maybe you can help me.
This one's good.
That one's about two full.
Oh, this one's good.
Okay.
Why are we getting sand?
Yeah, why are we out here getting sand?
Because we don't want to wait in a two-hour line
with this idiot Largo
for a little bit of sand.
Let me just help ourselves.
