Saturday morning 9 o'clock September 9th. I'm heading over to my mom's house right now
to help board up her windows. I've never seen such widespread panic like this before.
Every single person's house on this street and in this neighborhood looks just like this.
Pretty much the whole entire neighborhood has been out here all day helping each other board
up their windows for this thing.
It is boarding up the spare bedroom, the bathroom, and one of the windows in the other little
front room. Those are the two safe rooms, you know, in case of a tornado.
We've got money. Where are you headed to? 1st Street. Yeah, it's been closed since 6th
this morning. All right, wait a minute. Really? And then after the storm passes through, of course,
we'll be back out here again and no one will be able to come back on until the Army Corps
engineers come out and inspect the bridge and just restructure and stuff. Oh my gosh. Yeah,
sorry about that. I hate that. It's okay. No, it's okay. Very bad news, but it's just too,
you know, it just, and obviously it's for y'all's sake with the property out there. We don't,
so that's what we're being shorted to do. So
it's unreal. Trees are everywhere. Water starts to come in the dock where the bank goes out of my
house. The bank is gone. It's completely just under the boat is completely under water. There's
nothing left. The power's out. Forget about water. You can't even see right now outside. The
eye is just getting ready to come over. Once the eye hit, I don't know. I don't even know if this
house is gonna hold up enough, but the shed in the back is just gone. It's completely gone.
Right now, I'm in the interior part of the house where the water starts to cover the whole road
out there. It's, I'm like getting nervous now. Governor Rick Scott was right. I wish I wouldn't
have left. Please, if y'all in Tampa is going that way, please just get out and the nap time is
now gone wasted like I did. Yeah, I gotta ride it out. Are you really? Yeah. Oh, aren't you? You're
staying on the beach? Yeah. You don't think it's gonna flood or anything? Yeah, but I took my cars up to
an arrow. Oh, yeah. Oh, that's smart. So we took them up, walked up. We're in that, we're in ours's
concrete block all the way up.
You live here? Yeah, this is my place. Yeah, I was in the Coast Guard our last
eight years, but I've seen a lot of storms, but nothing like what's gonna happen, but I'll get
it all word about it, man. Yeah, I just went around out there. I had to grab shame, throw them
on my back like a spider monkey, take them on out of the smoke. Look at him. He's so excited to get his
pits taken. I said, dude, go down to Oriental Road Jail, getting pits taken down there all day long.
So it falls? Hell, it's motherfucker. This is how I'm gonna go down, get in the blade grab.
What do you got there? What is that? Fruit roll up? Where's space at? I think he's on the boat
somewhere. I don't know. I hope he's all right, dude. You need to get a little tacked. We got two
knives to get a little tacked up. Rape whistle in case them bitches are under control. Rape,
motherfucker. Yeah, fuck yeah. So what are you gonna do if it like, if it seriously floods here,
though? Die. Where did everybody go? Look at it, we got trees falling and everything. Yeah,
I'm here to fucking help Adore Beach. Anybody that needs help? Just call me. Just shoot the Batman
seagull up. So many people have evacuated from Miami to Tampa when we thought that the storm
was going on that coast, but now seeing what you're seeing and you guys are really in an outer
band area, what kind of advice could you give the folks in Tampa Bay because we're right in the
line of sight for the storm? I would get everything up off the ground if you live in a lowline area.
Make sure that it's put on top of the table, take it to a second story, and if you have a second
story, make sure you're up there. The storm surge is really nothing to play around with. If you're
a boat owner, I hope your boat is caught in the water at this point. Expect power outages. Make
sure you have flashlights not candles. Oh yeah. Governor Rick Scott has spoken to that numerous
times. We just want to get an update of what kind of wind to expect, when it's going to hit.
The highest ones should be just north of the eye. So, you know, you can see that from midnight to
around two o'clock. The more we can see sustained winds in that 80 to 90 range, we could still see
gusts around 110. I need a 30-past jet right away. I thought you were going to stay here with your
business and ride out the storm. If I could get a plane, I probably would. I mean, you should be coming out too.
