The world's on fire. Yeah. You just got to keep moving. All right, Craig. Well, thanks
for doing this, dude. I appreciate you. Appreciate you coming down. I know you're only here for
a couple of days in Tampa, but thanks for having me, man. Absolutely. So what's your story?
What's your background? Where are you from and how long you've been doing comedy? I'm
Los Angeles, born and raised. Born in Harbor City and raised in Torrance and LaMita. And
then I'm half Mexican, half white, half white boy. German, English, Mexican. My dad's white.
My mom's brown. And yeah, just got in the game at like 25 or 26. Did improv first before
stand up because I was terrified of it at the second city. And then after I went through
that program, I started hitting stand up pretty hard. And that was probably about nine years ago.
So I guess in the game, like a decade or 11, but stand up consistently. I don't really count
the first two years because I did it like twice a year, you know, I don't know what to call that.
But I just say a cool decade. Yeah. Average up or down. I don't know. And then yeah,
it's cracking now. I'm going everywhere. You're cracking your full tail. You're traveling the
damn country, man. It's a lot of work. Yeah, it's crazy. I prayed and wished for this my whole
life. And then I got it. And I'm like, Oh man, I'm never home. And it's like, Oh, this is tiring.
It's a beautiful problem. But yeah, I'm a little homesick. I'm not going to lie because I'm, I'm
just gone all the time. Yeah. Yeah. Look at my flights and shit. It's just like, do, do, do, do,
do. It's just hopping everywhere. Well, you're one of the last comedians that have stayed in
California, right? Like they all moved out or they're all moving out. Yeah, good.
They're all following the almighty Lord and Savior, Joe Rogan. Yeah. I mean, Joe's the man,
but I'm, I'm, I'm LA baby. So yeah, I, I think it's actually great. I think it's great. I don't
know. There's mixed reviews on the internet. You see a lot of haters out there. I'm like,
what, who cares? Austin's, I don't think Austin will ever become like an LA or New York. No,
but it's a great scene and it's just leveling out the playing field. I heard, I don't even know
who said that, but I heard that and it's right. It's just creating another hub. Yeah. What's wrong
with that? Like people are such haters. It's just creating more work for everybody. That's fucking
awesome. And when the big dogs leave, it gives, you know, the, the up and comer's chance to rise up.
So it's, it's a win for everybody. Right. And then there's more work here and there's more work
air there. And everyone talks shit. I'm like, you idiots. It's literally a win, win and you're
talking shit at comics and the most hateful people on earth. Dude, I was listening to Tim Dillon's
podcast a couple of weeks ago and he was talking about how much he hates Austin. It's so, that guy
is so fucking funny dude. He goes, he goes, I'm fucking done with this hellhole. He's like, the
food sucks. You got to put it in your reservations seven months, seven weeks early to eat some
shitty brisket. And he talks about like the shitty rivers you float around in.
Terry Black's barbecue is the best barbecue I've ever had in my life. So he's wrong about that,
but he's right about everything else. That man is so funny. That guy just spits fire, bro. I'm a
huge fan of his. Austin is a bit of a, I love Austin and I've worked there a few times and I'm,
you know, but, you know, I went down by the freeways. It's a bit of a shithole, but I'm not,
you know, so was LA. I'm not, like, there's just homeless epidemics happening and, you know,
my heart goes out to them, but yeah, it's just sad and awful. There's just needles and shit.
And some guy on this podcast, I believe Connor wonders, he said, like, Joe Rogan ruined Austin.
It was a joke, but he's like, the homeless, you know, was in LA and then he moved to Austin and
he's like, it came with him. It was funny because I was like, it looked like it's true, you know,
but it's obviously not. It was a joke. Yeah, I just started following one of those,
is that Instagram profile all about, like, gutter people. It's called gutter people of Los
Angeles. It's so sad and dark, but fascinating. Yeah. It's like, I don't want to watch it,
but you're just like, it's crazy. Yeah, I don't remember it ever being like that.
The pandemic amplified it by 10 man and the cops stopped policing or doing anything about it.
And I don't know if that's policy or if because they're pissed off, everyone was protesting against
them. But I'll say this, I did notice after the protest, they're a lot slower to get to the crime
scene, you know, and it's just like, all right, you know, the reason we're talking shit is because
of the murder, you know, it seems reasonable to stop shooting unarmed humans. Well, didn't that guy
just get sentenced to like 22 years? 22.5. Should have been 30. Yeah, he just got sentenced last
yesterday. The max was 30 and he got 22.5. Anyways, that shit's fucking awful. He'll probably only
do 10 if he behaves. Yeah, he'll probably roll out like after 10 years or something. 10 maybe,
who knows, 15. Yeah, I don't know how cops do in prison, but I imagine it's not good. If he makes it
that long. You think he'll get protective custody? You think he'll get like protected? I think he
has to or he'll get chipped in the shower for sure. Like day one. Yeah, I imagine. They'd have to
put him in protective custody, I'm sure. Yeah, I've only spent overnight in jail. God bless my
mama who bailed me out. What'd you go to jail for? Just stupid shit, just through firecrackers
at police officers on horses and stuff like that. Allegedly. Yeah, yeah. No, it was an accident.
And of course, you know, just this while you offer me a beer, I was like, I'm retired. And that's
why that's why you're not drinking it. You just don't drink this early. No, I don't drink. I'm sober.
Oh, you're sober. Okay. So you used to drink. You had to drink your problem. Yeah. Okay. It's the
story of the firecrackers. How old are you? 37. 37. Okay. Cool. So how long have you been sober?
It's going to be eight years, August 10th. But I started smoking weed like three months ago.
So I'm California sober or whatever. Three months ago. Wow. Or something like that. I don't even
remember. But very recently, yeah, the pandemic hit and just some, you know, dark shit. And I was
like, man, fuck this. I had never, I never, we saved my life from, you know, pills and narcotics
and whatnot and alcohol. So I never really had a beef with it. But I just had to put everything
down to get to where I was going because I'm just, I have a voracious appetite and I like to go hard
at whatever I'm on. And I know like stoners are critical people too. Like I started smoking weed
at 12 years old, right? I'm a huge advocate of pot, but it can ruin your life, motherfuckers. I've
seen it happen. There's the guys that just don't leave their home. Yeah. It doesn't ruin your life
in the sense you smoke crack and lose your family and your teeth. Right. But you don't do shit.
And I always say this analogy, like if you're smoking weed like Snoop Dogg, but you're not
fucking Snoop Dogg, put the pipe down, bro. You work at Starbucks, dude. You're not there yet.
You know what I mean? Yeah. Like you live with your mom, bro. Chill out, you know, go get life.
Then chief up all you fucking want. Cheech and Chong. Yeah. Yeah. And if you ain't Cheech and Chong,
if you ain't Wiz Khalifa, if you ain't Doug Benson, whoever's got a career and is a huge stoner,
then chill the fuck out because you're slowing your shit down. And that was my whole point.
And all these stoners are like, I'm like, dude, I've smoked from 12 to 29. That's 17 years,
motherfucker. Like I'm on your side. I'm just saying, just, you know, yeah, you gotta take
it. Balance. Fucking balance. It's all about balance. No, I'm a super fucking lightweight
when it comes to anything, especially weed. Like I can't be, I eat these, I eat these,
get these little edibles, these little square edibles that I probably like, I don't know,
maybe they're 20 milligrams, whatever. My wife can eat a whole one. No problem. Should I smoke a
joint, eat a whole edible? I only can eat like a little bit of a quarter of one or else I'll have
a full blown panic attack. That's like my girl. She's built her tolerance a little bit. I had
five milligram gummies. She took a bite of one. We're watching like fucking Lord of the Rings
of course, right? And then I look over and it looks like she's passed out on heroin just like this
in her chair, like this. I'm like, how does that, you ate two milligrams, you know?
I'm the same exact way. I did grow up though. Like I give this analogy to,
like I used to smoke the whole fucking joint to the head. Hey, that's not necessary. You know,
now I take like two to four hits. I get a little high. I put it out. I go back to it, you know,
two to four hours later and I'm functioning. Like I get to work. It helps me with my anxiety and
shit. And then, but if I smoke the whole joint, then it amplifies my anxiety and I'm just in my
head like, I suck. I'm not funny, you know, like that. And it's so weird how like just a little
bit's perfect. It's just, it's just, it makes life easier, foods better, sex better, all that shit.
A lot of it, you're just like, Oh my God. What's the symptoms? Remember the dude who told us the
Simpsons quote, the Simpsons character said, I don't even need drugs to enjoy this just to enhance
it. Yeah. I think it's curly maybe. But yeah, no, you got to like, it's like a fine line. You
got to be able to dance. It's hard sometimes. You got to either, you can't take too little,
you can't take too much. As long as you're like dancing like a fine line, it like just benefits
like work, especially for me, like work. Like if I'm even like doing something like editing or
whatever and I eat like or smoke the perfect amount or eat the right amount of an edible,
I could just be like hyper focused on something. It's fabulous. It's fabulous. I even noticed
my girl, my fans, my podcast producer noticed they're like, you speak better. You know, like
it slowed me down to where I could actually spit my words out correctly. And then, and
obviously those, sometimes it was too high and was not the case. But you know, when it was that
perfect little balance, just a couple hits, some good sun and soil organic push, you know, I'm a
hippie. I like, I like, what's the name of your podcast? Community service. Community service.
You guys do no research, huh? No, I know. I was just, I was, I was just teeing up for it.
So, uh, how many episodes do you do? Do you do an upset every week or how often do you do? Yeah,
I do a weekly episodes, community service drops every Wednesday. I dropped the ball
on this tour a couple of times just because I've been gone like the whole month. But as soon as
I get back to LA, I'm gonna stack episodes and that will never happen again. Do you, do you do
them remotely, most of them? Or do you do a lot of them in person? No. You do them in person? Yeah.
Oh, cool. I saw you had Bill Burr, you were talking about Bill Burr. That was the one remote
podcast I did because it's Bill fucking Burr. Right, yeah. Any of my friends asked, wanna do Zoom?
Like, no. Bill Burr, like, okay. You're not Bill Burr. Like, it's way harder, it's techno, I like,
it costs more money. I'm just like, nah, man, like, you get down to my place. Come over here. Yeah.
Bill Burr wants to do Zoom, he can do Zoom. He can do Zoom. I'll fucking do Zoom him from Mars.
Right. Whatever you want. Yeah, fuck it. Yeah, that's it. What was that like, man? That was cool,
huh? I was shitting my pants, dude. I am just so lucky that he saw my shit on the internet
and then he liked me. Did he reach out to you or? Yeah, well, I asked him, connection? Well,
I did like 20 shows with him and he, when you're, I worked at Comedy Store, Laugh Factory, Improv
and Hollywood and shit and I'd MC a lot and I'd get to work with big dogs like Bill Burr, Joe
Rogan, Sarah Silverman, all, you know, so dope and so I worked with him in that capacity a bunch.
But when you're the MC, they don't see your sex, they show up later and you do your time,
you do 10, 15 up top and he's usually up last, you know, like he didn't see. So he knew who I was,
just like, oh, I know that guy's face. Like, I've seen him around, you know, he's always here,
he's a comic. Right. And then, and then he saw, later he saw my shit on the internet. This is like,
over four years, I maybe did like, you know, 10, 15, 20, I don't know, quite a bit of shows.
Like, and then he saw my shit on the internet and then he's, he stopped me at the Comedy Store,
he's like, hey man, he's like, I didn't know you were funny. And then, you know, because it's true,
it's true. It wasn't a shot or nothing because you, you don't know until you see someone go up or you
see this shit online. And then he's like, you're, you're fucking weird. And I was just like, I was,
I was, I was literally like this, like, I was like, what is happening? You know, I was so happy.
He's like, yeah, man, you're funny. And then, and then he flagged me down again and he told me,
he showed his wife, my videos of getting rated. I got rated by the cops and my buddy
was the cop pointing a shotgun at my heart. It's a crazy story. Anyway, yeah, it's fucking nuts.
And then he saw that and he said he showed his wife and I was just like, my mind
exploded. I was like, dude, you're my hero. Like, he's watching your video. Yeah, I was like, what's
happening? Yeah. Like a dream came true. And, and then I did a couple of shows. The pandemic hit,
this was pre pandemic. And then the pandemic and then I didn't see him for like six,
one months until we LA started to open. And then I was doing a bar show with him at my buddy,
Mark Hayes and my Irish buddy and Josh Adam Myers, another good friend of mine. He was on the show
and I was like, Hey, I got my hundredth episode of my podcast coming up. I want to ask Bill.
And he's like, Well, does he know you? You know, like, do you have a relationship? I was like,
Yeah, he likes me. He said, Oh, it's funny. He's like, Yeah, fucking ask him then, you know,
yeah. Because if you don't have a relationship, you're just kind of an asshole. Yeah,
it's kind of weird. And then I stood up, I bring up Josh's name because I credit him for me asking
him because I stood up to go ask him. And then I bitched out and I sat back and I was like, I'm
scared. And he's like, Get the fuck up. He's like, you go ask him. And I was like, All right.
And I got up and I was like, Excuse me, you know, like, like, may I please
request? Could you please do it? And he just said, Yeah, I'll do it. What is it? You know,
and I was just like, That's how cool he is. You didn't even know what it was. I was like,
Oh, it's my podcast. That's so sick. And then he's like, Yeah, give me your number. And then,
and then I was like, What? And he said, Yes. And then he set to do it for my hundredth episode.
And then he goes, Hey kid, you know what? I booked SNL. I can't do it. Can we do it next week?
And I was like, Yeah, man. Yeah, of course. Right. And so he ended up being the 102nd
episode because he was gone to New York and he's like, Don't tell anybody it's not announced yet.
And I was just felt so cool. You know, I was like, What the fuck plan am I on, dude? You know,
and then he and then he did SNL and then he did my podcast. And that's why he's the goat,
man. That's so sick. That's so good. He goes from NBC, the biggest, one of the biggest, most
iconic shows ever to my little hippie ass's podcast is helping me out. You know what I mean?
What a crazy world, man. That guy's the fucking the shit, dude. God bless him.
Now he's like one of the guys, one of the rare guys like that's similar to Tim Dillon in the way
that he can just talk by himself, right? Yeah. He can just like sit there and banter forever about
and just talk shit. It's so hard to do that and make it that good consistently. Like I'll do solo
episodes and some of them are hits and some of them are like, Oh man, I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. Maybe we'll edit that a little bit. Yeah. It's so to keep that for an hour or more by
yourself. Yeah, that's hard. You know, it's so hard. So I like to have guests. It just helps, you
know. Yeah, I've never done a solo one. I probably never will. It's fucking hard, bro. You better
know it's not real. That's all I gotta say. This guy is ready to go. It's just riff gold.
And you're just like, What are you guys? Tim's is funny because he can make fun of his producer
guy. The guy that sits there with the computer. Like that's funny because I love that guy too.
He just laughs. Ben, right? Yeah. When he laughs, it just makes it so much funnier just because
you're just laughing at him laughing. Yeah. And he's so like mean to him. It's an act. You know,
when he fired him for at least Syat, another buddy, I hope I pronounce your name right.
I apologize. My apologies if I biffed it. But that shit was so funny. The Kirby enthusiasm music.
Did you see that? No, I didn't see that. He got mad at Ben. He fired him and then all of a sudden
it was it pans the Lee feeling it. Really? Oh, I did see that. I was dying. I was like, Oh, no.
And I thought it was real for a fraction of a second. Yeah. Then I was like, No, that's a bit.
And they put the music in there. Yeah. Yeah, it's classic. They're great. So what happened
with your friend sticking a shotgun in your chest? What's that story? I was living in Culver City
and it feels weird telling it on a podcast that's on stage. Do you not normally do that? No,
no, I do. It's a great story. I don't want to ruin your bit. No, no, no. It's already posted on the
internet. And that was like 10 years ago. I wasn't even, I maybe had done stand up twice when I did
this story at the moth, the moth storytelling grant, the grand slam. I don't know. Anyways,
I was at classes at UCB for improv and storytelling because I was scared of stand up still. That's
why I went to that world. And then my friends were like, Hey, come to the moth storytelling show.
And I was like, All right. And then I put my name in a bucket. And it was the theme was getting
duped, like tricked or whatever. And I was like, Well, I got rated yesterday. And it was the wrong
house, you know, so that's like a dupe. I don't know. And then so when I told the story at the
moth, like a decade ago, I got rated the day before. So I got rated and then I told the story. So
when you watch it and I'm so raw and green, like, I forget what I'm talking about. And I'm just like,
I'm in the middle of the story. And I'm just like, I fucking love you guys. I don't know where I'm
going, you know, like you can see the greenness in me, but it's funny, you know. And then, and
I'm just telling a true story because those, you know, it's hard to mess those up. Anyways,
I, I was working at, I'm going to tell the whole long story. That's not the green version. I was
working at Trader Joe's and I was training my coworker. I bring that up because I was a mad
stoner back then and he's, and we're on lunch break and I'm training him and he's, he's a little
shifty. He's the tweaker fool, you know, but he's my people, you know, he's Latino and then, and,
and, and then I was like, one smoke a bowl, we're on lunch break and I pulled a fucking
weed bowl out like a normal human being. He pulled out the pookie pipe, speed, math. I had never
smoked meth in my life at that point. And then he's like, you want to hit, you know, and everything
in my mind, body and soul said, no, but I'm at it. I was like, all right, you know, and I took a
little hit and I was like, oh, that's good, you know, and I was, I was a good worker that day.
Let me tell you. Yeah. And then, you know, I was like, yeah, I want more. And then I went to his
house and it was in the fucking hood. It was all like Hoover and I was just like, oh, shit, this
is sketchy as fuck. And his LA, you know, South Central shit, or I don't even know where I was,
but it was in the, it wasn't a good neighborhood. I was scoring dope and the fucking ghetto birds
were up there and I was all paranoid in my head. Anyways, I get home and then I'm good and me and
my buddy do some shit, go out drinking, have a good time. I say all that because cut to maybe like
four or five days later, I'm asleep in my bed and I just hear noise and I don't know what it is,
because I'm asleep. What it is is fucking SWAT team breaking down the gate because we lived in
like a back house. It was a, it was a house, but the landlord split it in half. So it was a front
house and a back house, but it wasn't like a duplex. He just did that to create double homes,
double rent, make money. So I'm in the back house and, and I just hear noise and I'm just like,
I'm waking up, you know, and I'm, I'm, I'm blind as a bat. I wear glasses and contacts. I'm minus
like 7.5 is bad. I can't see shit. You'd be blurry from this distance. And I think it's my roommate,
my buddy playing a prank on me, you know, and, and I just hear hands in the air and, and then I'm
reaching for my glasses and I hear hands in the air, motherfucker. And I'm just like, who is this,
you know, like this and then, and then you threw in the motherfucker. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. And then,
and then they fill up this window and this window and this window to my little studio
back bungalow, whatever you could call it. And, and then I'm just like, oh shit, you know, like,
what the fuck? Yeah. And all I kept thinking is like, oh, the math guy, you know, because I was
selling a little weed, little fireworks, little mushrooms, but nothing. I'm no Pablo Escobar.
It was like a quarter pound of weed, an ounce of mushrooms, some Roman mechanicals, firecrackers,
you know, the basics. Yeah. The basics, just the necessities. Yeah. And then, and then they go
open your door because I had a deadbolt and shit, you know, and, and, and then I opened the door
and there's a Culver City cop pointing the shotgun at my chest. And then I just go, Chris.
And he, he goes like this, Craig, and he pulls his gun back and it's my buddy Chris Caraballo. I
went to, I'm not sure if I was supposed to say his whole name. I keep fucking that up. I'm sorry,
Chris. Anyways. We could edit it out. Oh yeah, just bleep his last name. And, and he, he's, he's,
I've known him since I was 12 years old. Yeah. I played Little League with him, maybe even younger.
I went to middle school, high school with him. He's my buddy. Yeah. And I'm, I'm not, he's fucking
raiding me. We went down different paths, you know, and then, and then I'm just like, help me.
What the fuck's happening? And then he handcuffs me. And in my act, I'd say like that motherfucker,
you know, but, uh, he put him on loose. He really did. Cause I've been cuffed up three
times prior. Yeah. They put him on tight as fuck. Fuck them, man. They crank them on so hard. You
get nerve damage. They cut you. I literally got locked up twice before I overnight, you know,
and then I had to go to work Trader Joe's and I couldn't even like ring people up. I was like,
my wrist, you know, I couldn't stock apples. They're like, stop getting arrested. I'm like,
I'm not trying. Oh my God. Anyways, that's why I'm sober. And then, uh, and then so he, I'm a,
I'm like freaking out and I'm like, dude, I got, I got like weed in there and got, you know,
mushrooms there. And he's like, bro, like I see my friend and he's like, hey man, stop telling me
that, you know, and then I was like, I have fireworks in there. You know, I'm on probation
for fireworks because of the, I, to, I, to the firecracker, uh, horse assaulting incident.
Another story. And, uh, and then he started laughing. He's like, oh yeah. The one that made the
paper because it made a couple of local newspapers. Of course he heard about it. And I was like, yeah.
And then, uh, they bring another cop up and he has a drug sniffing dog, you know, and then he's
like, you got anything hit being, I was like, yeah, you know, of course, dude. And then he's
like, tell me where it is. I'm going to rip your room apart. And I was like, you know, it's, you
know, it's in the dresser. Like you'll find it. And then, uh, and then, um, and they pull me out
to the alley and I'm just handcuffed with my roommates and we're just like, what the fuck?
You know, we're sleeping. We're in, we're in our underwear. And, uh, and then, uh, yeah,
they were questioning me and they, they surrounded me and I got really nervous and, and I farted
and I swear on my life. I farted on the cops and, uh, and, and in my roommate was just like, oh
my, I was like, it was an accident. I was like, I was just nervous. I was like, early. I was like,
I'm sorry. And then they're just looking at me like, look at this fucking retired hippie.
Dude, this guy has shit his pants. Yeah. And then, uh, and then later I,
I, uh, why? Lucky you didn't shit your pants. I know. Seriously. I was like, can you help me out?
Yeah. Spicy. I'm handcuffed. And then all I kept thinking is I can't go to jail again. My mom's
not going to bail me out for a fourth time. I have to bail my self out or I'm not a man.
And you know what I mean? The fourth time I'm like, uh, leave me in mom. I'm sorry. That's on me.
And all I kept thinking is like, I can't miss UCB school. I paid 750 for these motherfucking
comedy classes. I know that sounds crazy and like a bit, but that's all I was thinking. I was like,
I gotta go to school. I gotta go to school. I gotta get funny, you know? I can't go to jail.
I gotta go to fucking clown school. And then, uh, and then I didn't even know this. My good buddy,
Grant Lyon told me because I was in UCB with this guy. He's a great comic and he's on my show in
LA July 2nd. Come get these jokes. Jam in the van. West LA. And then he, uh, he said that I had
told, cause I was like, come on. I was, I'm a fucking weird, you know, addict kid going to
these improv classes. Everyone's from out of town. I'm from LA and they're just like, what are you?
You know what I mean? And then, uh, like in that UCB class, I, I'm just an open, I'm a,
I'm open, you know? And I was like, dude, I smoked meth yesterday for the first time and everyone's
like, why are you telling this? I was like, I don't know. And then cut to like, man, I got raided
and then just like everything's adding up. And then, and then, uh, later in that class, he told me
that I farted and the teacher, this is right after I got raided. I made it to class because they,
I didn't go to jail cause they were there for King Mike, the front house. Cause he was like a,
he was a drug lord running, running meth or some shit. He had two strikes.
The guy who owned the house?
No, just the renter in the front house. He, uh, he was a two-time striker. They were trying to
strike him out and send him to prison for the rest of his life. I guess he was dealing like meth
and guns and some shit. He had good kush though. I'll tell you what. Yeah. And then, uh, and then,
his name was King Mike on the wifi. I just thought it was funny. And the, in the act,
I say his password was thug123, you know, that's obviously a bit. That's the only fabricated part
of the story. And then, uh, where was I? I don't even remember. Oh, uh, class. He's talking about
like smoking meth and, yeah. He told me that I farted. Like, I didn't even remember this. I
farted the same day in class that I farted on the teacher. And I know that sounds crazy, but like,
I got cops, witnesses, classmates that vouch for me. Like, it's just sounds made up, you know?
It's a weird day.
Yeah. But I always have been a farter and I, I think it's funny and hilarious.
The cop one was more nerves than anything. Yeah. The class one I forgot. And I probably
thought it was going to be quiet and it wasn't. And she's, the teacher's like, are you fucking
serious? Did you just fart? I was like, yeah. Was it a loud one or a silent one? It was a loud one,
bro. Yeah. Yeah. That's why she went, uh, and then I ended up running into my buddy, Chris,
the cop later on the streets. He was just patrolling. I was just like, oh my God. Like,
how crazy was that? Remember when you almost killed me, bro? He's like, yeah. And he said the
precinct talked about me for like a month or two. He's like, remember that dumb hippie that
fucking farted on us? And I was like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just fucking, it's like,
you can't even make this shit up. Thank you God for all my stories. Holy shit. Yeah, dude. It's
so wild. Anyways, I got sober. I'm off narcotics, no alcohol, only weed. I'll never touch an
narcotic again. I think it's devil reincarnate. It ruined my life. It ruined my friend's life.
It's killed many of my friends. It's the Schwartz. And in my opinion, alcohol is the
fucking worst drug on this earth because it led to all my narcotic behavior, which I never would.
No one smokes weed and then goes, I'm going to go do meth. You know what I mean? You get shit
faced and then some motherfuckers like you want some meth and you're like, all right. You know,
it doesn't just happen like that. It's 98% of the time it's alcohol. You think all drugs should
be legal? Yes. Yeah, totally. Absolutely. 100% legal education. You know what they are. They're
clean. They're made, no fillers, no fentanyl, no harmful byproducts. There's rehab facilities.
I think everything should be legal unless it's murder, rape, and of course that horrible shit.
Prostitution should be legal. Legalize all of it. Whenever you make it illegal, it just makes
dark entities take it over. And now I want prostitutions to have unions, retirement plans,
mental health care exit strategies, fucking Roth IRAs. Let's get these hoes from fucking millions,
man. I'm serious. Roth IRAs. Roth IRAs, baby. For the prost, for the long reasons. Why not?
The way it's going now, it's been around since fucking Jesus. The pimps control it. They beat
the fuck out of them. They're constantly, it's not regulated. They're getting murdered and kidnapped
by weird fucking meth truckers, lot lizards and shit like that. Let's legalize this shit,
unionize it, get them benefits, dental, fucking rehab, and exit plans. Hell yeah.
And what's the problem, man? That's why is that so crazy? It's not. There's a couple
of countries that do it, I think. There's one. I think Holland is the one that lets you shoot
up heroin. Did you know this statistic? When prostitution is legal, rape goes down. Oh yeah.
Yes. That is a real fact. I learned that through comedy. My buddy Greg Romero Wilson did it in
a bit and I was like, is that true? And he's like, yeah. And then I googled it and I was like,
holy shit. Yeah, it makes sense, right? It also saves women. Yeah. It's crazy. I was in Aruba
and it's legal there. And girls would come from other countries there and it's legal and they
have to come in, check in with a doctor, get paperwork, get tested, get paperwork signed off
that they're clean and then they can go legally prostitutes. If it's legal, it's done by choice.
When it's illegal, that's when they're getting kidnapped and hooked to dope and trafficked.
It's fucking insane. The solution is so simple. Legalize it. Yeah. I'm a big union guy. My uncle's
in the union, you know? Is he? Yeah. It's just make a livable wage. Like why do people always want
to go against the union? Oh, you don't want a hardworking worker to have a life and buy a home
and feed his family and have health care? Right. That was fucking America. That's what we're about.
Right. It's like, no, no, no, minimum wage. Make them work three jobs. Yeah. Oh, this country's
so stupid. Barely make rent. We're the richest nation in the world without health care. Unions
are pretty dirty, though. There's some unions up north that are pretty fucking ruthless. Like
Mikey tells stories about some of those unions that would march on his uncle's lawn. You know,
it gets a little mafioso, but hey. Mops start to run certain parts of it and shit. They give
me my Roth IRA. I'll look the other way. Right. Hey, whatever. They let me buy my home for my
family. Where's Jimmy Hoffa? Yeah. But there's some corrupt motherfuckers on the top of those
unions that collect their union dues that probably break some legs here and there.
I don't want corruption anywhere, including the unions, but I'm more okay with that because at
least the working man is getting a fair fucking shake. It's just crazy how hard you have to work.
You know we're in Florida, by the way, because they got a fucking, they're cutting down trees
with a chainsaw two inches away from the door. What's crazy is you got the good marks I got
these two is that it feels like it's, of course, it's inside of our brains and it's heckling us,
but 98% of the time it doesn't come through. Not too bad. Yeah. Because I have the same thing,
LA. Just start the podcast and then the neighbor starts mowing his lawn and I'm like,
God damn it. I love it. I just love leaving it in because that shit always happens over here and
leave it in for the comments. You know what I mean? Yeah. You're like, it's live.
Does the podcast, doing the podcast, does it help your comedy? Does it help your...
Oh, for sure. Like you're writing or whatever, like work and stuff out and there's a lot,
like pretty much every comic they have podcasts. Yeah, you can flesh out some bits on it. It's
quite fabulous. You go on rants, you're able to talk about it longer, which on stage you might not
be able to because on a podcast you don't need laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh. In front of a live
audience, you're bombing. You're not going to get booked again if it's just too long of periods
without laughter. So yes, it's beautiful for that. And you see Bill Burr do it all the time.
I don't know how to do it on his level and his because that guy just turns a bit.
Take Dylan's same shit. Like these guys are just fucking geniuses and it's like,
fuck. They're also 20, 30 years in the game. Right. Yeah, they're veterans.
Everything comes with time. How much of it is like developed skill versus like natural born
God given talent? It's both. There's always Eddie Murphy. That guy was just born
top dog. That guy was just never left. You're like, he retired from stand-up at 25,
you know what I mean? Most people don't make... That guy retired as one of the goats by 25.
I'm like, okay, Tupac, you know what I mean? What the fuck? But of course, natural goes way
further than anything, but I have seen painfully unfunny comics work extremely hard and get good
at it. Really? It's a muscle. It can be learned. It's just like, you're bad at math. You take
a tutor at math every fucking day. All of a sudden, you get good at math. I've seen bad
comics get good. And I respect that. Of course, when anyone bombs that bad, you're like, oh,
you can't even look them in the eye. But when they work that hard and they turn it around, I'm like,
oh, all right, I see you. God damn, you used to suck. Yeah. And now you're good. And that's
crazy. But of course, the natural goofy motherfucker, they just get up there and you got it. I like
this guy. I know people where their aura and energy and presence on stage is way more advanced
than their bits. Like, I'm not really a fan of their bits, but I'm a fan of them. So I still
love it. It doesn't matter. And also, they're just, it's just newer. Everything's time.
Like, everyone's in such a rush. There's no stand-up comedy. It's just time. The analogy,
10,000 hours. In stand-up, you're trying to get 10,000 hours, three minutes at a time. It's not
easy. In the beginning in LA, anyways, you get three to five minutes at open mics. And then,
and then, you know, that's two to six years of that, depending on your growth. And then after
that, you get 10, eight to 15, averaging out about 10. So, you know, I'm 10 years in and I have a
pretty good following and I'm well liked and I, you know, I only get 10. I'm not, I'm not saying
I deserve more. I'm just saying I'm just trying to give you an accurate description. It doesn't
matter. Like, even Bill Burr, Joe Rogan on the Comedy Star lineup, they get 15. There's just
too many comics in Los Angeles. Yeah. And so, still, even still. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We, you know,
we're like cockroaches. 10,000 leave, 10,000 rise up. You never stop comedy, man. And,
and it's just crazy. What were we talking about? I forgot. I love California, though. I was hoping
that like, wasn't that rant going? It was a, there was a question. We were talking about,
like natural born talent being funny. Oh, yeah. That's what it was. Yeah. Yeah.
Natural shit always wins, but you got to work hard too. You have to write. You have to work.
Right. There's no shortcuts in this game. Yeah. I was hoping that like maybe enough people from
California would move from Texas to Florida and kind of like thin it out there and then maybe
like make the price of real estate go up here. I could just sell all my shit here and go back to
California or like go to like San Diego. I would probably like, I like San Diego better. I like
San, I love San Clemente, San Diego, like those areas and no free oceans. Yeah. My cousin, Don,
lives down there. I go visit her and I do La Jolla comedy store or buddy Josh Nelson show. He's a
producer of comic and produce. He has some fire shows and I love San Diego. It's just like,
well, sometimes it's a little too fucked up. PB. PB is a little bit too much cocaine,
a little too much liquor, a lot of, you know, too many affliction shirts and tank tops. I'm
like, calm down, dude. We're at the beach. Oh, sorry, Pacific Beach, PB San Diego Pacific.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, it's just like, hey, we're at the beach. No one
needs to be that angry. There's a lot of cocaine down there. Yeah. Yeah. Anywhere with this,
we should go. Yeah. Yeah. There's cocaine everywhere. You're in Florida, dude. Are you
fucking kidding me? What do you think of Florida? I fucking love it. The thunder scares me. Oh,
my God. It was storming here pretty good. Shit. It felt like it hit my house. It's a cool time of
year because it's like, it just started happening like a week ago. Yeah. It's been dry for a long
time. It's been dry. It hasn't rained once and like, I feel like it's been 10 months since it's
rained and now all of a sudden the weather's like this every night. It's going to like,
the rain. Yeah. Yeah. I like weather, but it does scare me just because I'm from LA born raised
and I haven't really experienced weather my whole life. Yeah. Besides visiting it very shortly,
you know. So like when it happens, I'm like, whoa, whoa. But then an earthquake happens and I don't
even leave. I just lay it bad and like everyone's like, you all right? I'm like, yeah, who gives a
shit? We've never had an earthquake here. Crazy. Yeah. My whole house will be rolling. I'll be
on my phone. Like when's this? It's so weird. Really? I don't know why that is. I know I should
be scared because I grew up with them. Yeah. So it's like, oh, it's just an earthquake.
We haven't had the big one yet. And of course, you know the story. We're supposed to fall off
into the ocean and we're over. We're long overdue. That's scary. We're on a fucking fault line and
they show. I like, I thought the fault line was up north and then I googled it very recently. I was
like, oh, I'm dead. What is it? Like the San Andreas fall? San Andreas fall. It's, it just goes
like this and it's pretty much California would just crack and just fall into the ocean and I'm
just like, oh boy. Yeah, that floor is supposed to be underwater by like 2050. Like man, they say
all that shit. They're fucking lying. It's a fear factory. Do you see that fucking building that
collapsed in Miami? Yeah, that's where I read it from because they said it was like, no, but did
you read the reports? That was negligence. A 2018 report said, hey, you need to repair all this
shit, structural damage in the columns and you need to do it now. Three years later, not done,
people died. Fuck the owner, hang them. Did they say how many people died in that?
There's four confirmed dead, 149 missing. Like they can't even find them, bro. Whole families
just disappeared. That shit is fucked, man. You look at the picture of that building and you can
see like this kid's bunk bed like dangling. Whoever said no to the repairs should be shot.
Totally disavowed. Yeah, that's strong. I don't know if that's illegal safety, but
shot with a Nerf gun. It's comedy satire. Yeah, that's fucked up. I think the like,
like the laws are that you have to get those, you have to get those inspections like the,
whatever, the structural integrity inspections every 40 years. 40 is the, I think that's
the law for those buildings. Oh my God. It should be like at least 20.
It should be 10. I don't know. I'm now a structural engineer, but I sure as hell no,
40 is a long time. So weave it too long there. Oh yeah, that's fucked up. Jesus Christ. I know
you build a brand new building and probably don't need inspections for a long time, but you know,
40, get the fuck out of here. That's insane. People just died, man. No, that is stupid. That's
really dumb. No, going back to, going back to, you're talking about cocaine. I heard the best
cocaine story I've ever heard in my life yesterday on this podcast. This guy told me,
he was telling me, he wrote a book about the famous killing of Sharon Tate, the Charles
Manson killings. After he wrote his book, Marilyn Manson blew up his emails and blew up his,
was blowing up his, his like public publicist or whatever. And she thought it was fake because
this key was sending these cryptic emails and she eventually they're like, just call, just call
the number that he gave us and see if it's really him because the girl was like a fan of him or
whatever. So she calls him and she goes, yeah, it's really fucking him. Like he wants to meet,
like he wants you to come to his house. So he's like, okay, he doesn't really know anything.
This guy's older. He doesn't know, she didn't know anything about Marilyn Manson, but his
partner that helped him write his book was like a fan of him as well as like a drummer or something.
So he flew here from New York and they both went to his house. And
they got their, Manson was like, don't show up before 11 a 11 p.m. So they show up at like 1130
and they get into this like dark dungeon. That's so weird. Why don't you say come over at 1130 p.m.
Right, right. Don't show up before 11. You need time after that. Who knows what the fuck's going
on before 1130. You got a 22 hour window. It's such a weird, it's such a Marilyn Manson thing
to say. Like just coming over weird. Yeah. Knock nine times and hail Satan before you enter.
Dude. And he said he had all this crazy stuff in there. He said that like he, like when you first
walk in the door, he had a life size cut out. First of all, he had Taylor Swift blasting
throughout his whole mansion. Like he had just Taylor Swift music blasting for two hours. And
when you first walk in his door, he had a life size cut out of Taylor Swift with like blood all
downer. And like they drew this big vagina honor with like blood and stuff everywhere.
And you know, like he's like, he's like canceled right now for some like sexual
devi is being a sexual deviant or something. Yeah. His, uh, his ex-wife came out and said
that he did some like fucked up shit. But, uh, and then he also has this baboon. He smuggled
out of China, this like six foot tall baboon stuffed with a giant erection that he bat that
smuggled out of China. He just had a baboon with the boner. A giant baboon with a giant
boner, like in the middle of his living room. And he had this crazy shit like a skeleton.
I mean, just get a dog, bro. A human skeleton with a, uh, with a goat head on it, like hanging
from the ceiling. Yeah, I'm good on that hang. I don't, I don't. That's too dark. That's like
real Marilyn Man's shit. I thought it was an axe, bro. No, it's not an axe, bro. Goats, heads,
and boner baboon. Get the fuck out of here. And you know the story. I don't know if you know
the story, but, uh, um, Zach Efron went to rehab. He went to rehab. I'm not sure how long ago it
was, but he was basically like filming a movie and he got Baker acted in the middle of filming.
Like he came to, he came to set one day, like really fucked up and he was like super coped up
and like drunk. Damn. They Baker acted his ass. What the fuck's Baker act? It's like, what is it?
You know, you gotta go to rehab. Yeah. When they take you, you're like too fucked up. They think
you're maybe kill yourself. Suicidal people. They Baker act all the time. Like he couldn't,
it was, he couldn't leave if he wanted to. Exactly. Yeah. That's the only kind of rehab that works.
I could leave. Yeah. Right. I could show up next week. Sure. Maybe. Yeah. And, uh, and anyways,
so Zach Efron was there partying and he said that at Maryland's house at Maryland's house.
Oh my God. The night before he got Baker. He's so weird, you know, up all night. I guess he's a
huge fan of Maryland Manson, whatever he say. He reached out to him and he was like, yeah, come
over and party with me or whatever. And he was over there for a few days, whatever. And then
like the last night he was there, he was Maryland Manson was carving out giant cocaine swastikas
and having Zach Efron and they were both snorting these giant cocaine swastikas off the floor
and in his dark dungeon. Like, and he's like, remind you, he's got this giant palace on top
of a hill in like the Pacific Palisades and all the windows are blocked in. Like he got,
he blacked out all the windows. So you can't even see out any of the windows.
That's such an unhealthy life. I don't like this world. And he's like, he's like in his 50s, bro.
And he's doing this every night. What the fuck? How are these guys not dead? I don't understand it.
I look back at my past and that does not even come close to what they're doing. And I'm like,
I almost died. Like what? And I got out. You know, some people are living every day, man.
Fuck. He's probably been doing it since he was in his 20s. Probably,
there's probably nothing. Can't last too much longer doing shit like that.
Now your heart's going to explode. Yeah. Maryland, your heart's going to give out.
I don't know you, but take a chill pill. Jesus Christ. Little weed. That's it. That's it. Wow.
That's a great, that's the best cocaine story I think I've ever heard. Yeah, that's pretty insane,
bro. How weird is it to picture Zac Efron and Marilyn Manson chilling together?
The weird, that's what I said out of like blowing minds.
I don't think it's that weird. He hangs out with like Shia LaBeef. He hangs out with Nick Cage,
hangs out with Johnny Depp. Seems about par for the course, you know? I guess, yeah. Yeah,
the partiers. The good ones. Johnny Depp with Hunter S. Thompson. Oh, yeah.
Was he really friends with him? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. He went and stayed with him for a month or
two or I forgot, but when he was getting ready to tape, fear and loathing, he stayed at Hunter's
house for a while. And then he came, he was friends and then they always part. Hunter S. Thompson
is the craziest, coolest motherfucker ever. Did you see him on video just having to shoot out with
his neighbor? He was the biggest everything. They said they were, he was like Superman. Like he just
was functioned on it like fucking a sheet of acid and drink a quart of whiskey and just like no one
could even tell and just would write and he's a God. Watch the documentary on him though. It's
kind of sad. They said like towards the end, the drugs took its toll and his life got damned and
they said he was sitting in front of the typewriter and later after all the years of drug abuse
and it was like a lightning bolt would hit him and he'd go and he'd like write some genius shit
and then it would like stop and he'd have to wait and wait for it. It was a really cool analogy.
Really? And he blew his fucking brains out with his family home. He said if Bush wins the
election again, I'm going to blow my brains out and then he did and that's the saddest
shit I ever heard but he is a man of his words. For sure. With his family home and his son was
talking about it and he's like it's kind of sad and poetic but he's like that's the way he wanted
it you know and it was just nuts. What's the documentary called? I don't remember but just
sugar. And he was having a shootout with his neighbor and the guy's just filming it and he's
going like this and then his neighbor shoots back and then you just hear and just bullets
ricochets. There's my fucking neighbor. What? And then just having a shootout on like a Sunday and
I'm like what is happening here? That's crazy. You're shooting guns at each other. I've got a
hand cannon. You just go about your day after that. Yeah. This is a bunch of documentaries.
Jeff next door is a real dick. Yeah, Gonzo, that's it. Gonzo, is that it? So good. And
Gonzo, I don't remember it's been too long, may have been the name of the lawyer. That's a sick
cover. I like the artwork. Who was the lawyer in the movie Fear and Loathing? That was based off
of a real character. Was it? Benicio del Toro. Benicio del Toro, yeah, he was the actor. Yeah,
that guy was a real character and they talk about him in the movie and Hunter said he was a scary
man. Really? He was a lawyer and he was a big strong dude. He's like, is this guy gonna get me
out of jail or murder me? He said he was a man not to be trifled with. He was a very scary guy.
So of course he hung out with him and did copious amounts of drugs with him. Yeah, he was sick,
man. I've read a story about him with the Hell's Angels before that was super gnarly.
He got the shit beaten out of him. He stayed with them for like a couple months. He did everything
they did. Yeah, they beat his ass one night though, jumped him and shit. I remember that story. I
think it was in this. He said, because one of the Hell's Angels was beating his lady and beating
his dog. He goes, any man that beats his lady and beats his dog is a punk. And the guy was like,
you really mean that? He's like chilling at the biker bar. And then he's like, yeah. And then
they beat the fuck out of him because they're the Hell's Angels, but he was right. And then he
still chilled with them, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like smoked meth with them and fucking partied with
them. He went to the cops all bloody and like said that, but Hell's Angels is beating my ass.
And they said, get out of here. You're getting blood on the counter. Like no one helped them.
God damn. And he's still after guys asked me to stay there and hung out. I don't remember. I don't
know after the beating. I want to say I would say he chose not to be there anymore. I remember
the story going on a little bit, but I don't remember. Seems like drugs go hand in hand
with being a creative genius sometimes. Yes, but also death and dark shit.
You know, it'll be a short run, but it'll be a good one. It's a slippery slope.
I will say this, like I'm glad I went through what I went through. And I've given this analogy
before, like I'm a fan of drugs and they fucking fun, dude. But you know, obviously if they get you,
you lose your family, your home, your life. It's gonna go to jail. Bad shit happens.
But I just like, obviously you can't tell kids not to do them. That doesn't fucking work. But
I just say like, I dove all in and went like crazy, but I had my hand on the side of the swimming
pool. Like don't let go. If you go all in, you're fucking toast. You've seen where it goes.
It's nowhere good. There's no happy endings. I mean, even Keith Richards, he's like the
one guy that hasn't, that's been on heroin for 50 years. Just one guy. The rest are dead.
There's one guy. What do you think his secret is? He's got reptile blood. I don't know. I don't
fucking know. He's got a really good dealer. That's for sure. Well, he said that he does the same
amount, no matter what. Like he doesn't, you know. Okay. That's what he's been quoted saying.
I don't know. I think you can quit whatever he wants. Yeah.
But just, you know, of course you want to experience shit. We all do. We're curious as fuck,
but just have an exit strategy. And you know, like I've heard all these stories before and
they're jokes you hear in AA or the program. And you know, like don't try Coke because
like the joke is like, I tried it once for five years. Like no one does it once.
It's just trouble. It's like, Hey, you want a bump? Give me the A-ball. Give me the A-ball.
One's too many and 500 is not enough. Exactly. You know the saints. It's just, it's true. They're
saints for a reason. I'm a fan of natural, you know, what God makes. Sun and soil, seed and mushrooms,
weed. Yeah. It's been a part of our culture, you know, from ancient civilizations. Well,
Coke's from nature. No, the cocoa leaf is from nature. The cocoa leaf is from nature and you
put it in your cheek and you chew on it like tobacco and it's, it's like coffee. It's like
strong coffee. Then we cook it in the laboratory and make it crack cocaine or cocaine powder and
sniff it, shoot it up and smoke it. We pour diesel fuel on it. That's not natural, bro.
That's not natural. That changes things a little bit, you know what I mean?
There's definitely more, I mean, I've talked about it, like there's like a weird stigma on
uppers versus downers. Like weed and mushrooms, like it's easy for people to talk about like
casually doing smoke and weed. Because have you seen meth heads, bro? Have you seen meth? Have you
seen hippies? Little different. Little different. Yeah. It's like no one, no one's ever proud of
being high on meth or high on coke, but weed and mushrooms and that kind of stuff, LSD,
like the trippy stuff is different. Like you can be proud of it. Because it most, I mean,
unless you fry your fucking brain, which I've seen happen too, it kind of changes you further
better. I remember the first seeds ever planted of sobriety, whereas a teenager on mushrooms,
and I never had that thought in my life. That was, I didn't even know that was an option with
my family and on both sides, you know, everyone just partied. And then like you do little mushrooms,
you're like, man, what am I doing? Like I need to be better. Like I'm going to hug my mom,
tell her I love her. I'm going to get off these pills. Like it was just poison, you know? Yeah.
And then of course, the high goes down and then I just take the pills and forget about it. But I
just, I never thought that until mushrooms. Yeah. And unfortunately, it took me about a decade to
get out of that. Pills and coke and whatever, you know, I was just a partier. It's like people
say, what was your choice? Obviously, Oxycontin Norcos, Opioids, they just love that. But like I
was like down here too. Like whatever, like what's at the party? Like it doesn't matter what you got.
Yeah, what's he going to say? Do you still take mushrooms or no? I started micro dosing.
So I haven't been high yet. But so yes and no. That has, you know, this pandemic,
obviously hit the fucking world hard, but it started, my mental health went down,
bro. And I was like, oh fuck. And I didn't want to get on head meds because I was on pills for a
fucking decade. And I was like, no, I don't even like taking aspirin now. And I, you know,
not that head meds can be great for certain people. I've just seen friends literally kill themselves
on them when switching meds on my own. Trust that, you know? And so I was like, fuck that.
What are natural alternatives? So I started taking cold showers, ice baths, swimming in the ocean,
breath work, micro dosing. You just take like 0.2, 0.3. It doesn't get you high. Just kind of stirs
your little, you know, and it fucking works, dude. So good. Oh my God. Well, I started doing it
because all my friends started doing it and people I trust and, you know, they're not
burnouts and shit. And I started, I listened to something on NPR where like CEOs and execs were
micro dosing. Like Silicon Valley people. Yeah. And I was like, all right, that guy's worth 2.2
billion and he's taking a micro dose. I'm going to look into this, you know? He's not smoking crack.
Yeah. And then I tried it and it fucking helped. You just do it like every third day and you're not,
if you're micro dosing every day, you're doing it wrong, you know? Like it's not meant like that.
And it just stirs your little happy juices just enough, lights you up. And now that it's kind
of being decriminalized in a lot of states, they're doing more and more scientific studies on it.
And it's really just showing profound effects with war veterans, soldiers, schizophrenia, drug
addicts. It's, you know, of course, take that with a grain of salt. The drug addict can also
eat a quarter every day and ruin his life, you know? Like it's, I'm at a different place in my
life to where I was. That's why I made the decision to start dabbling in weed and micro dosing.
Cause I was like, I did seven years, 100% with nothing. So I built my foundation. I felt like
I developed enough. I'm still scared. I'm still at least smart enough to know I can't have a beer,
you know? I'm sorry for putting me in front of you.
Are you kidding me? I couldn't go to my family's house. I'm fine. Yeah. Everyone's like, oh,
shit. It's like, I'm not, no, it's okay. It's all right. I know where it leads. I'm good. But yeah.
I don't remember where I was going. Just it's been, been very, very, very beneficial to me
and my mental health and anxiety and depression during this dark year we've all had.
I had a guy on here, this filmmaker dude who made a really famous YouTube documentary called
Florida Man a few years ago. And anyways, he, he's really big into mushrooms now. And now,
basically every project he works on is all about tripping on mushrooms. Like he's dedicated his
life to it. He has a podcast where he's tripping every single morning. Every morning. Every fucking
morning, bro. That's a bit, that's, that's a bit. That's a lot. A bit much. He's hardcore into it.
And he talks like he told a story about his dad. How his dad was super depressed. His dad had PTSD
and his dad still lives here. He lives in LA. And he eventually convinced his dad to try mushrooms.
He's like, it changed his dad's life. Yeah, it does, man. It completely changed it for the better.
No more suicidal thoughts. The dude was happier. Like he literally changed his life.
There's so many stories like this. That was that one fighter guy. They documented it.
He was, you know, an MMA guy. I don't remember his name. I'm sorry, dude, but he had CTE and brain
damage from fighting, you know? And he was taking pills because he's all fucked up because of fighting,
you know, headmats and painkillers. And he's a huge dude. So he's taking way more than everyone
else because he's a huge fucking dude. And he's drinking like 40 beers a day, he said,
because he's fucking 280. And it just takes, anyways, he was ready to kill himself and he has
a family. He's like, I can't do that. But every thought I have is just like, end it, end it,
end it. Because he's in so much pain. And then he said he took a hero dose of mushrooms, which is
seven grams, where you go to- A hero dose? That's what it's called. They call that a hero dose,
where you go to, I call it Cuckoo'sville. But he went there and they filmed it and he thought he
died. And he's like, I'm dead. It's kind of funny and sad. I'm fucking dead. But then he comes back
and he comes down and then they do a follow-up. He's like, oh my god, I stopped drinking. I stopped
taking pills. My suicidal thoughts are gone. Wow. You know? And it's like a reset button. And the
same exact story pretty much, I heard from like an army ranger guy that went to war and, you know,
did war shit and he's fucked up. And this guy was a smart dude. Of course, I forgot his name,
you know? But I'd have to Google it. But he said that he was just same thing. Sad, depressed,
suicidal. And he didn't start out that way. This guy graduated college, went to like West Point
after that shit. He's like a fucking elite soldier, you know? He's like, I need to do something about
this. So he started traveling the world and doing ayahuasca mushrooms, toad, lick the toad. He did
all of them. And he said by far the best one he did was Ibogaine. Ibogaine. I believe he's in Peru
or something. He said that, you know, it's the same as like a hero dose. You go there, you know?
And he said, Father Ibogaine appeared before him and said like, breathe. And he breathed. And he
said it took all the negative dark energy out of him. And he said he's never felt such a release
like that in his life. And after that, he was like no suicidal thoughts, no PTSD, no anxiety.
So then I did some research in the hippie communities, I believe all this shit. But like
ayahuasca, it's mother ayahuasca, you know, there's always male and female and everything in between.
And you gotta say that, you know? Non-binary. Yeah. And then so there's mother ayahuasca and
father Ibogaine. It's the, you know, the male and the female. And then he said that's why he
thinks the Ibogaine was more beneficial than the ayahuasca because it got rid of all that
toxic masculinity baggage. Although I am a fan of masculinity and being a man, just, you know,
not the toxic shit. I think like it's so, it's, everyone just makes it so divisive. It's like,
fuck masculinity. It's like, no, no, no. Masculinity is good. Build a house. Provide for your family.
Hunt, you know? Toxic masculinity is bad. Like let's, there's a fucking difference. You know,
everything is so weird now. What are you going to vote for our Caitlyn Jenner?
I don't even know. I don't know who the options are.
She's ready to transform California. Yeah, I'm not a fan of anyone that gets away with
vehicular manslaughter. Yeah. You know, because they're rich. Yeah, for sure.
I can't imagine, I can't imagine a world where Caitlyn Jenner is the governor and I mean,
who would be her vice? I mean, the Terminator was. Yeah, that's right. The Terminator was.
But he's pretty cool. That one I'll give a pass because Terminator too, bro.
Yeah, Terminator is a Terminator. I don't think I was old enough to vote, but I ain't gonna lie.
I'd be like T2. Dude, that's great. I could watch that. Any day, every day is the best
action movie I've ever seen in my life. Yeah, so good. T2 holds up. God damn James Cameron.
You're fucking genius, bro. I forgot James Cameron made that.
He's made the best movies. I heard he's a big dick, but who cares? When you make that good,
thank you, sir. That's awesome. When you make that good of movies, you could be a dick.
I don't give a fuck. I won't speak up. God damn. Yeah, I completely forgot that he made that.
That was one of the fucking best goddamn movies. That's the one where he ends with the thumb up
and he goes in the lava. Yeah. Terminator 2 greatest action movie ever. T2. But maybe John Wick.
Those are my two favorite movies. I haven't even seen John Wick. Oh, I gotta go.
That's why I've been telling him for so long, I've been telling him, bro. Shoot him up movie
I've ever seen in my life. Keanu Reeves is so badass. Keanu Reeves is so fucking dope.
Do you have to watch him like in sequence? No, it's a gun movie. It doesn't need to.
It has a storyline, but it's all the same. Yeah, all I know. The first one actually is
somewhat realistic. Yeah. After that, I hate the fans too. Everyone's a hater. They're like,
he didn't even, it's like, it's a movie, guys. It's unrealistic. He took on 9,000 minutes. Yeah,
it's a fucking movie. Right. It's action. Yeah. Just enjoy it. Yeah. Obviously, it's not realistic.
Right. It's insane. Yeah, they're awesome, man. I like it. I want to see expo bonds in it. The dude
from the Mavs, the tall dude. He is? I don't remember him. The tall dude with the big ears. Yeah,
he's a bad guy. I've seen the scene where he's in a grocery store and like John Wick beats his
ass. He's like an eight foot tall, big, giant looking guy. Oh, okay. He's like Andre, a giant.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I didn't know that guy was a ball player. Yeah, he's a pro basketball
player. Oh, that's fantastic. Yeah, he's great, dude. Yeah, watch John Wick. I'm going to watch
the first one's the best. Start there, but it doesn't matter. All right, I'll watch it tonight.
But it's so good. I'm going to binge him tonight. He took him priority to get me to watch
trailer park boys too. I just started watching trailer park boys. Oh my god. I love that show.
It's so good. Rest in peace. Was it Randy? It's all right. The alcoholic past? Jim. Jim. Jim Leahy.
That's right. Did he just die? Yeah, a year or so ago. Yeah, a year or two ago. Dude, that show's
so funny. John Dunn's worth. Yeah, that's funny as fuck. You got to be super. Bubbles. You got to be
focused. Oh, yeah, there's a fucking bubble. That's what a nice fucking kitty right there. Yeah,
they're classic characters, man. And you can see the evolution of the show. If you watch it like
from the beginning, it's like so grainy and like you filmed it with your little handheld. Yeah,
it gets the production quality. That's a perfect example of those guys just made something out of
nothing, you know, at all fucking camera. The production on this show is better than them.
And then it just they're funny. And then it just kept going. Yeah, it was just like some friends
made some shit on it. Yeah, it was just like fucking CKY, right? Yeah, they started like CKY.
Dude, I watched it in high school. Oh, yeah. That was everything to us. That freestyle,
but I went for yellow. Yeah, Brandon. Yeah. Brandon Nicomelo. Dude. Oh man. CKY's got me started
in everything. Everything. All my buddies started jumping off buildings. Yeah. But we didn't even
film it. It was just for paying. Really? We filmed it. Yeah, luckily, Danny filmed everything. I
started filming for us. We didn't have a camera. Bro. We just have the memory. Yeah. And the broken
bones. Yeah. Oh my God, we got so much fucking trouble. I feel like that CKY era that when they
may start making those document, those videos and post for those selling the DVDs that that
must have inspired so many fucking kids. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Millions. I mean, I met Dunn at a club
once. Really? Yeah, Rest in Peace. Fuck. I was hammering on XC, it was like Vegas. I was like,
fucking Ryan Dunn, bro. And he's like, yeah, I was like, you're my hero, dude. And that was it.
The random hero. He was cool. He gave me a hug, dude. Really? I was sweaty, all drugged out,
kid. He's like, fuck yeah, bro. And I just remember it was real kind words. It was a club
and he's yelling in my ear. He's like, that's awesome. Yeah. And I don't know why. I just
remember saying like, I fucking love you and Led Zeppelin, bro. I just named those two things.
I guess it's good company to be in. Yeah. You know, obviously fans of a lot of shit. But
yeah, Ryan Dunn, Jackass, that whole crew, CKY. Bamfucking going downhill. Yeah. He's a perfect
example of he stayed too long. Yeah. He's on like Marilyn Manson's level. Yeah. Yeah, I could see
him at Marilyn Manson's house. Oh yeah, all the time, for sure. They're being there, but he's
fucking just watching the social media. It's so fucking sad to see him spiral. It's so sad,
just spiraling. He's all bloated. Puking on camera. It looks like he's gonna die. Bam. I love you,
bro. Get sober, man. Yeah. I go to Ibogaine, bro. Ibogaine. Hell marries. I just like,
go do what you gotta do. Yeah. rehab ain't working. Go to Peru. Do ayahuasca and
ayahuasca and you're gonna fucking die, man. You've done it? Not the Ibogaine. Okay. How was that?
That was pretty cool. Yeah. That was good. I mean, it wasn't like a super relief of everything
pulled out of me, but it's definitely a very spiritual and mental thing to go through and
it's really good for you, for sure. Yeah, there's no guarantee of that, like that war, dude. That was
like his fifth one, you know? Really? And that's when he was like, oh, I finally got rid of the
thing I was trying to get rid of. Right, right, right. Yeah, I wasn't really trying to get rid of
anything I don't think when I took it. Yeah. Used to have a high enough dose. His tolerance is too
high. Double down, baby. Double down, brother. Next time I would double down for sure.
So I guess that's the process. It's like it's such a, you know, hellful experience of
puking and shit in your pants that you have a rebirth process and it cleanses you. You purge,
you know, that's the story. Energy leaves you. Yeah, just like a rebirth. You're just like,
oh, fuck. You shed that bullshit. You've been holding on whatever the fuck it is. Childhood,
trauma, war, fighting, abuse. I don't know. Whatever. Dude, if I eat too much of an edible,
I feel that way. I'm telling you, I fucking started. That's different, bro. That's different.
That's just anxiety. I just got to step it up. I got to start building my taller entire.
Craig, thanks for doing this, bro. I really appreciate it. Tell everybody
how long you're here. Oh, I'm sorry. That was too many. What's that? What's that? What's that?
I was saying, how long are you here? What are you doing shows? I'm three, four more shows,
Saturday, Sunday. Come get these jokes, baby. Hell yeah. Tell them where they can follow you
and listen to yourself. Craig P. Coneit on all social media platforms. Craig Coneit.com. I'm
touring. I got 43, 45 cities this year. Okay. Go to my shows. You know, this is my foot in
the door tour. This is my first headline tour. Cool, man. So fucking make me look good. I have
them bring me back, everybody. I love you all and thank you. Hell yeah, bro. Thanks for coming.
Thanks again. Thank you. Goodbye, world. Peace.
