All right, welcome blockchain boys. Thanks for having us. Yeah, dude for sure. Tell people
who aren't familiar with you. Tell us what you do. We do a lot, but if you ever heard
of crypto, you know, we delve in that industry a bit. We have a media company called Kryptonite,
which is more than a media company, but that's what most people know it as. And this is our
CEO, Michael Sessa. We're business partners and co-founders. Michael Sessa. You introduced
yourself to me earlier as what? Just Sessa. You go by Sessa. All right, cool.
Team calls me Sessa. Friends call me Sessa. And probably because where I grew up in New
York was like a, like basically an Italian neighborhood. Everybody's name was either Michael
or Anthony. And that's Anthony's, my middle name. So you just, everybody went by the last
name and it kind of just stuck. Cool. Yeah. So I like your TikTok. I like your, you got
some funny stuff on there. What, what do you guys do? You guys just like teach people about
crypto and NFTs and stuff. You know, there's multiple creators under our, you know, company.
And for me personally, my focus is more no BS crypto because the crypto industry is fundamentally
built on bullshit. A lot of it is. And so I think that trying to bring people down back
to reality, showing them what is real and what's not is important. And I hope that my
content fills a role with, which is not only educational, but fun as well. So I think, you
know, trying to connect with the people who are into crypto, which is also young people
who are on TikTok. I was never a TikToker until I was sitting at a Cajun seafood restaurant.
My buddy Michael Lang was like, Hey man, you got to get this app. I'm like, weren't they
going to ban that? I thought that was a good thing. I saw all those dancing, you know,
garbage like that. But no, there's actually a vibrant crypto scene on TikTok.
Really? Yeah. It's seen amazing growth over the last 12 months. Ever since the game stopped
stuff. I mean, sure, we've had our moments of, you know, okay, why are we pumping this
garbage meme coin does nothing, but it's gotten so many people into crypto. I think it's been
a genuine asset to the space. How did you get into crypto?
There was 2017 and I, you know, my mom told me about crypto. I was 16 years old. I'm 20
now. So I've been in here for about almost five years, give or take. And my mom was like,
Hey, there's this thing called Bitcoin. And I was always a tech guy, built my first computer,
freshman year programming, that kind of stuff. Not so much now, but it was just, you know,
I dabbled and I liked investing. I've always been sort of an entrepreneur. And so, you
know, I looked at Bitcoin was like $1,000, a little bit under the next week, it was like
two grand. And I said to myself, Holy shit, I got to get on this. I had no idea what any
of it was, you know, digital gold. Okay, what does that mean? So I hopped right in the space.
And that led to a passion both on a professional level and a personal level that has persisted
to this day.
How did you guys meet?
Hmm. So circa around 2017, 2016, I was working on this startup. I just left the, the financial
industry. I was with Merrill Lynch for a few years. And I met my former one of my former
business partners. And we were working on this project. Essentially, it was a DAO. It was it
was a lot like a DAO in the metaverse, but it was in 2017. Nobody even knew what metaverse was
back then. So raising funds in traditional capital was was hard enough to get it off the
ground. And I remember we were we're out at this convention actually in Tampa. And we bumped
into each other. What was it was like, right outside, it was right outside. They had like the
Lamborghinis outside. Yeah, this was something like that. What was it called Synapse Summit?
Synapse. Yeah. It was at Synapse in 2018. 2018. 2018 Synapse Summit Tampa, Florida. And he was
working for a guy like 16 years old. I think I might have been 17 at that time. 17. And there's
like suited up poorly fitting suit suited up. And I remember you came up to you were pitching
me the company that you were working with. It was this it was this company. I mean, look,
there's so many like scam artists, even locally. Yeah. And and I'm not going to say that company
was a scam. But the guy he was working for was an asshole. And so it was unfortunate. But but
he came up to me had this amazing sales pitch was like the best sales pitches I've ever heard.
And I could tell he was young. I didn't know how young and that like blew my mind when I found
out. So I'm like, you know what come by we were we were working out a credo conduit at the time.
I was like, come by credo conduit is like co working space. And and let's chat some more. And
he came through and and I mean, the rest was history. I basically was like, I leave who you're
working with now because they don't even have a contract in place for you. And they're working
you like a dog. I was like, so I don't know why you're why you're working for free for them. And
we took him in as a as an intern and gave him papers and then like, you know, eventually cut
equity out of the deal. And unfortunately, that never kicked off. But then, you know, wrap up
2020. And I'm pitching him on kryptonite. I'm like, Hey, you got some interest in going back into
the crypto industry. He's like, Yeah, yeah, I do. I was like, I got this idea. And then kryptonite
was born actually originally started out as a trading bot company. And and then it just spiraled
into a media company fast enough. That's what so kryptonite is a media company. Yeah, so we
started out literally I wrote a a business plan for this thing. And I sent it to one of my now
business partners on June 6 of 2020. And it was outlining this whole thing. I was like, we're
going to build a trading bot. And we're going to market it on Tik Tok. And there wasn't a single
crypto Tik Tok influencer at the time, like, none. So I'm scouring this up. I'm like, this is like
popping off so fast. Music artist again, the songs out on it. I was like, This is great. So I was, I
took like an interim role as a COO at a nonprofit in downtown Orlando. And then I was like, once I
came up with this idea, I was like, All right, we need to we need to kick this off. Because the
crypto markets turn around, I saw the writing on the walls. So two months later, you know, me and
my business partner were conceptually, I call up Lucas said, I got something I think I need you to
be a part of because I slowly realized this is way too much work for me to become an influencer on
Tik Tok and build an entire company. So I called them up and said, we had grants at the time too, I
had had these two grants from my other company that I was using to fund crypto night just to try to
get it off the ground. Like it was it was so shit, because like the one grant would lapse. And then
people weren't going to get paid for two weeks. And I can add another hard conversation where I was
like, guys, like, listen, if you want to be a part of this, cool, if not, I can't afford to pay for
the next two weeks, the grant doesn't kick in. So you're going to miss paycheck. I'm going to miss
paycheck. I'm not going to pay anything either. And but I called him early 2021, the grant stuff,
but we had we had kind of gotten into it at the very end of 2020. Yeah, because I called him, I
remember the phone calls like, Listen, how would you like to make crypto content on Tik Tok? I'll
pay $625 a week to be fair. So all you have to do is make content on crypto.
I wasn't supposed to be the influencer or the creator or whatever. I was I've only been busy,
right? So more more professional settings. And I wasn't supposed to be on the handling the Tik Tok,
we had a small team built. You know, I picked it up just to see what the platform was like. And I
did this as sort of a side thing, you know, while we were trying to grow the bot, while we're trying
to get the brand down. And long story short, we had picked a few people, a few of my friends, a few
people he knew. And we, you know, we had, we had gotten to the point where we had done photo shoots
with the people that we thought were the final candidates to be like, we're gonna put on a show
and produced by us. And I just started making videos. And slowly, like it became more so that I was
taking way more precedent than anyone else. And it was completely by accident, which is kind of
funny. Because I never really thought I would be the person in front of a camera or making content.
Because mind you, I'm doing this all for my bedroom with no production. Like I had an Android
phone. Okay, you know, it was camera quality was not great. Let me just let me just say that is rough
beginnings, humble beginnings. And we're now officially out of the bedroom as of Monday, Wednesday,
when my new furniture comes in, you know, so yeah, there you go.
Oh, yeah. So it's a good journey. So you guys are kind of like crypto financial advisors or I
don't know, whoa, what's next XNA on the financial advisor? Definitely not financial advisor. So
what do you got? I still don't understand. I understand you're a media company. But like, so
when it started out, we had, we had a few different partners involved. One of them was a trading guru.
And the trading guru, it didn't turn out well, the first iteration, we wound up wasting a good six
months. And that was rough. Because as I mentioned before, we had grants, they were lapsing. And so
time was of the essence. It was a ton of time wasted. And I was like, shit, we got, you know, I
think at the time was like, four, four solid employees that we knew we needed to make paychecks
for. And so luckily Lucas's following was growing at the time. One of our graphics designers that
we had on payroll, he came through clutch made him a awesome the logo that he has today. Shout
out to Nick. Shout out to Nick. And so he actually he designed the current iteration, but my initial
logo to show you how like little I gave any effort into that it was $15 on Fiverr. And I was like,
hey, make me something. Because there's a guy used to watch did great content, but he stopped
posting. So I thought, Hey, maybe I'll take up where he left off, and just fuck around a little
bit. But it turned into so much more than that. You can really think of us like a media company and a
bot company, the two are quite separated, but we are under the same name. Media company focused on
educational content, community, and, you know, educating people like what, how not to get yourself
phoned? Because we're not financial advisors. I'll never sit here and tell you, Hey, man, go
invest in this now. Not only is that blatantly illegal, because it's financial advice, but it's
also not the thing that I encourage people to do. I like to say, Hey, guys, this is interesting. Go
do your research about it. Okay, look at look at the ecosystem behind it. Look at the partners. You
know, this is what I'm doing. And you shouldn't do this. And this is where I think it could go,
right? So it's like, it's not necessarily me telling people that, you know, something is about
to pop off, it's more about helping them get the tools to do it themselves. So they don't need me.
Yeah, you know, I want to be on a beach in, you know, when I'm retired in 2030 years, whatever it
is. And I want them, I want the next person to see my channel and get inspired and do the same
thing and help, you know, everyone grow in the space. That's really what I'd like to do personally is
just elevate the crypto space to be taken more seriously. Because like, and TikTok, we get made
fun of a lot. We get made fun of a lot. There's a lot of creators who are who are only there for
personal gain and to make dog shit content. And it's frustrating because that's the videos that
people see when they see crypto TikTok. But there's a vibrant community of people who we're not
even affiliated with, but we do shows with or have on, you know, live streams, who are really
smart in the industry, and have helped educate essentially millions, if not tens of millions of
people in the last 12 months. It's beautiful. And I wish that people would give it a chance, you
know, it's all about community, man. How do you guys explain this crypto dip going on right now?
It's an emerging market, right? So you have the cycles of adoption, cryptos in the, well,
it's like halved in the last week, right? Yeah, let's just say my pockets are hurting, but it's
okay. Yeah, because if you can't handle it at its negative 50%, then you don't deserve the two 300
X's that come with it, right? Nice. It's very similar to the early internet, right? So we're
seeing this technology come out and there's blatant ripoffs and scams. This is just, it's,
it's just comes with the territory. It's opportunists taking advantage, but there's also
a really cool shit that's being built that will be affecting the financial industry in 10 to 15
years when this technology is done. Ethereum is still in beta. People don't realize that Vitalik
himself is like, Hey guys, this was adopted too quickly. It's not supposed to be adopted for mainstream
use yet. Like these, this technology is very early. I mean, Ethereum gas fees, I paid tens of
thousands of dollars last year just to move my money. It's definitely not ready, but we are seeing
it get to that point. We're seeing major companies adopt this technology slowly, but surely, and
just like a forest fire that burns down everything in sight, what comes back will be stronger and
it will be, you know, the newest, greatest thing that we can use in our everyday lives, essentially.
You got some gym quotes in there, man. It's, it's, it's crazy because like,
you know, when they say like, we welcome regulation, like we're just waiting for it,
you know, I mean, because until that time, you're going to have this crazy volatility.
But you know, that's crypto. I mean, it's, it's, I've had days where I'm up 300%. I've had days
where I'm, I just want to cry in a corner, you know, because my bank account is just
my crypto account, excuse me. But you got to stay well diversified. You got to stay well
diversified. I put everything I had into cryptocurrency when I was 16. I mean, bro,
there's a picture that I have that I keep that in 2020 of me, I borrowed a dollar from my girlfriend
who's moving in with me now. And I needed, I needed to deposit it into the bank. So I didn't
overdraft. All my money was in crypto. Everything, not saying I bought crypto with money I received
from a grant, but I was, I was buying crypto basically at the, at every opportunity. And
I bet literally everything I had, I dropped out of college to pursue a career in tech startups
and crypto. And I knew college was not for me. I, I find it very frustrating because it's very
arbitrary. And I couldn't see myself doing that nine to five stuff personally. And I think that
we're going to see a lot more of that in the coming years. And crypto and web three is a great
space to build in. You don't need a college degree. You can, as long as you have, you know, a reputation,
a foundation, useful skills, you can join a DAO, you can build cool things with cool people,
and you can be really successful at it. I've met more millionaires who are younger than me
than I have who are older than me and like on crypto Twitter, assuming that they're not famous,
just people I see in comment sections who are like 18 or 19, who've like,
these are people who have bought it when like it was super cheap and they just,
that they've held on to it ever since, specifically NFT Twitter.
People become millionaires in like the last 10 months with NFTs. It's crazy.
Yeah. Okay. I'm not going to lie. I fumbled the bag. I looked at the board apes. Art was
fucking ugly. I was like, they are literally so ugly. I don't want them. They're dumb.
And I was going to buy 10 of them because someone told me to and I was like, ah,
these things look really gross. I still don't do this. I don't buy NFTs that I don't like the art of.
I don't care who they are. I don't care who's doing them. If it's not at least watchable,
I'm not putting a board ape on my screen or on a chain. I'm sorry.
I love that cube one that you post on your Twitter, the cube, the 3D cube with like the
ghouls and goblins inside of it. Yeah. I just retweeted that actually. They were in my comments.
No idea what that project is, but they seem cool. They interact with my posts. So I showed
them some love. There's a lot of underrated NFT artists. Guy named Sergei out of Miami.
Really fantastic artist. I first saw his art in 2018. He does crypto art and he does this.
He's a do what you love kind of thing going on. And so I purchased a bunch of his NFTs.
No resale value. I spent tens of thousands probably on his NFTs,
but I bought them because I liked them. And that's what I do with NFTs personally,
or they have to have really good utility. So. I buy them and flip them. That's it.
Yeah. Buy them and flip them. What were those called? How long did it happen?
There's people. I have one that I'm attached to. One. Just one.
What were those ones? The Apollons? How are your Apollons doing?
Oh, my God. This is the problem with the NFT space. $8,000 mistake.
$8,000. Pudgy Penguins was the best flip I ever had.
Which was? Pudgy Penguins. Pudgy Penguins.
I bought one. I bought a few, but I bought one for $6,000. It was like two Ethereum at the time.
And I knew it was rare. He was looking at us like, oh, this is a rare one. You should definitely
get this. I was like, all right. I had to convince him too.
He had to convince me. I was like, I'm going to spend $6,000 on a fucking penguin.
I was like, are you kidding me? And he's like, bro, do it. This is probably a great move.
I said, all right. Fine. Fuck it. And yeah, it sold two weeks later for $80,000.
Wow. Chachin. God damn. That's fucking incredible.
I'm calling him screaming. I'm like, I love you so much. I'll invest in anything you ever tell me.
I was like, this is great. This is great.
Wow. Fuck. That's awesome. Congratulations.
Are the Pudgy Penguins? Yeah, congratulations. That's huge.
Are the Pudgy Penguins still valuable? Yeah.
Funny story with that. I'd like to make it known as an example of what happens in this space.
The founders, which we never did any sponsor to work. People always think that because we really
just love the penguins. We talked about them. They were cute.
They were already blowing up. We got them views. Yeah. But they were already,
they were up 10x when I bought them. They were up 2x when he bought them.
And so they were still going. But the founders basically, I don't want to say rugged,
but they basically did another mint of miniature penguins, took the Ethereum and basically said,
all right guys, see you later. Thanks for the bag. Talk to you later.
Yeah. I sold mine way below floor for half an eighth. This was my NFT profile picture on Twitter.
I've always rocked with the penguins. Community is great. Founders left them dead and hanging.
That's the problem. Where's the accountability for these Web3 projects, for these NFT projects
specific? And that's like, if crypto is in the early adoption phase, where the early adopters
or the early majority is getting in, NFTs are before the early adopter phase.
I mean, if you look at who owns an NFT, right, you can see the accounts on open,
see, I think it's 3 million. And a lot of those are probably people selling to themselves. I'm
going to keep it real with you. But we will see NFTs integrated in a major way, just like we saw
crypto kind of blow up in 2021. It's sort of like 2017 for NFTs right now. So I'm probably going to buy
more, probably as much NFTs as I do crypto during the bear market. Yeah, absolutely.
Anyone who doesn't is a fool, in my opinion. No financial advice.
And some NFTs aren't just art. Some NFTs are what people understand, like NFTs are like passes
for things. Yeah, like the Yacht Club, the Ape Yacht Club. You're a member of a club,
then you can go to the discord, you go to the parties. But even more so, they can make you
more money past that. So me and my friend Joshua Jake, who's a business partner of ours as well,
we just joined as advisors to this NFT project called the Blockchain Miners Club.
And they mentored these NFTs, right? They're really cool artwork, but they entitle you to a
community reward, right? And so they basically took this mint money that they had from raising
from these NFTs, and they bought a bunch of Bitcoin miners. So they've got all these Bitcoin
miners, hundreds of them, mining Bitcoin, and there's some, I think there's some Ethereum miners
going on too. They've got all this passive income coming in that they're reinvesting,
and holders of these NFTs are entitled to the community rewards. It's not a direct investment
thing, but you get your community rewards for owning these miners. And so things like that
really excite me for NFTs. This is what I'm more than anything excited for is the ability for
people to actually show the utility that they have. And you can actually burn two of these
together to create an ultra miner, which has a token attached to it, which they're trying to
integrate into a couple different ecosystems. But it's really pushing the boundaries of what is
an NFT. Is it just art? Well, no. An NFT, all an NFT really is, is just saying that you own
a specific thing, and it's like a right. So I have the rights to this NFT. It's my NFT,
but it can represent anything. I mean, this table could be an NFT. It's like a deed saying,
hey, this is my table. Right. It's like a deed. It's like a patent, maybe. To that,
ticket sales are going to be the biggest thing in NFTs. I always said, if we weren't doing this,
I'd be trying to solve for ticket sales for sporting events, or concerts, or whatever else.
Because as soon as they square that circle, all ticket sales will be NFTs. It just makes so much
sense. It solves scalping issues. It solves royalty issues. I mean, we can do that now, right?
You just get to your little Apple wallet, and they send you the little QR code in your wallet,
and it's kind of like that. So the difference would be, say you sold
your Jay-Z, and you sell a concert out, right? There's going to be tons of people who buy up
your tickets, especially like we see all this, and then they're going to try to resell them for
5X the price right before the show. So if you're Jay-Z, you can go in, and if you sell by NFTs,
and each ticket's an NFT, you can go in and say, well, all right, that's fine. But every time that
ticket's sold when it gets transferred, like 10, 20, 30, whatever percent of the value is going to
go back to the artist. Now, poor people aren't really good at Jay-Z concerts. So you can't go to
them now if you're poor. Well, how much is a Jay-Z ticket? A couple hundred bucks, probably at least.
Yeah, but if he was doing it with NFTs, and people are scalping them on the black market,
they're going to end up being thousands of dollars. NFTs don't solve traditional issues.
They oftentimes present new ones, right? We see this a lot with projects that get exploited,
and this is actually a really, so I don't know if you've heard, this is a great example.
The blockchain is like bringing a bunch of meat in front of Hungry Lions, and these Hungry Lions
are biting at their cage, trying to get in and get the juicy meat. Because even though, yeah,
okay, it's immutable. Great. This Ethereum is my Ethereum. There's no bank. Everything else
is still a risk. These board apes were getting sold for, you know, 1.7 ETH, 0.7 ETH recently,
just last week, because of an API issue with OpenSea. Essentially, what was happening is that
people had them listed, you know, six months ago for that price, but they didn't want to pay the
delisting fee, which is Ethereum gas fees are prohibitively expensive. So they would send it
to another wallet and then back again, violating that smart contract. But someone found an exploit
where even though it wasn't publicly available on the blockchain, that smart contract was still
active. So they would immediately buy it, flip it for maybe 20 or 30 times what they bought,
and make off with, you know, 100 grand or less than that sometimes 80 grand. And so there's
a lot of exploits in the space right now. And it's just like I said, part of the emerging
technology that's coming here, we're going to see these kinks. But still, there's more wins
than there are losses. I mean, have they fixed that yet? It's OpenSea. OpenSea is terrible.
The board, the board apes, I thought like last week, the floor on those things was 90 Ethereum.
Now it's like 118 Ethereum. It's insane. Yep. Justin Bieber just bought a board
ape for 500 Ethereum, I believe. See, that seems like the whole value in it is just because
celebrities buy and people think it's cool, like Jimmy Fallon, Justin Bieber, whoever else,
Post Malone, whoever else bought those things. And it's, it's like more and more celebrities
or famous people with big Twitter followings will buy them and then it makes more people want to
jump in. But it also does have like all those cool intangible value, value to it, like the
discord and the parties and the merch and, and all that stuff too. So.
And keep in mind that a lot of these celebrities didn't actually buy them. They used something
called MoonPay concierge. And, you know, we can debate about whether or not they're actually
paying for these, but I think I have a sneaking suspicion. Some of these celebrities and they
were gifted it. Really? Oh. I think it's very likely. What is MoonPay concierge? MoonPay,
you know, they're, they're kind of a company in a space that puts together, from what I
understand, I'm not a huge expert. I haven't really looked into them that much. They put
together like, you know, if you want to invest in NFTs, but you don't want to do it yourself. So
they have a concierge service and they've got some other stuff going on. But I think it's no
coincidence. Let's just say that all these board apes started up here. Yeah, it's you want exposure,
but you don't want to take the time to learn about it. Yeah. So you want to be in the crowd,
but you don't want to do anything for it. And I'm not like a huge, I don't know much about MoonPay.
I just know that they have the service. Those types of services are going to be around for a
long time. I mean, that's why financial advising services are around because people don't want
to learn what to invest in in stocks. They just want to build their wealth and then
toss it over to a financial advisor. It's the same thing. Really? You know what I mean? Like,
interesting. There's a lot of smoke and mirrors in this industry, man. I mean,
more than I could explain in a podcast episode. But what's the chances of the board ape is just
one big scam. These guys are just going to like hit the, hit the fricking highway and the craziest
thing is that there's a lot of, you know, rhymes with Yahtzee imagery behind these board apes.
People don't talk about that much. There's a guy on Twitter who I, you know, people debate.
I did notice that. I did notice that. So I had this guy, I had this guy, Brett on the Brett
Phillips baseball player on the podcast last week, and he taught me about the board apes
literally last week. And so me and a friend of mine went and bought one and it has a,
we has this crazy helmet on it here. I'll show it to you. And it's, we just looked it up today
and it's some fucking, uh, it's like a German Nazi helmet.
I was going to say the only thing I could think that rhymes with Yahtzee is not.
I didn't know if I was missing a word or if I'm like, yeah. So there's a lot of historical
references behind the board api club. And I'll send you guys this afterwards. I was very doubtful.
I thought maybe it's a coincidence. There's a lot of stuff that just, you know, and I'm not saying
that they are definitely, definitely intentfully doing this, but there just seems to be a lot
of coincidences here. They're definitely too big to fail. There's the, the board apes, I would be
very surprised if they did not last probably, you know, for conceivably as long as NFTs are a thing,
unless something drastic happened because they've got, they've hit critical mass. You can't go back
from Justin Bieber, aping into it. They could get canceled. I doubt it for being, for wearing
German World War II helmets. But the powers that be behind crypto don't want that to happen.
Who are the powers that be? Well, there's Twitter and then there's crypto Twitter.
And crypto Twitter has a, what would you say, like a different set of rules?
Crypto Twitter is an interesting set of Twitter. It's very different from anything else.
But like, you know, this, you know, when I say the powers that be,
it's very general topic because it's hard to track down, track down who those are.
But crypto has run, you know, there's a lot, like I said, a lot of smoke and mirrors in this
industry that I'm trying to cut through. And a lot of people have been made enemies of other
people because they try and do the same thing, you know, but it is what it is. I think that
ultimately we will see this space grow and evolve to where people can recognize that,
you know what I'm saying? Like one of the things that I see a lot. So I also, I have a side thing
I'm doing, I partnered with Dowmaker, which is like the number one, like legit crypto launchpad
in the space. Shout out to the Dowmaker team. I'll send them this video. And we're running
something called infinity pad. So I've learned how to, to kind of do IDOs, initial, you know,
offerings and not, not available in America. Shout out to my non-American friends. But there's a lot
of VCs in this space that are just out here to just get their bag. There's a lot of, you know,
VCs and LPs that are just out here to use DeFi and web three to do the same thing they did in web
two. And it's very frustrating to see that. So I think that we can build a system that makes them
obsolete. And that's kind of what I want to focus on doing so that they don't have control
beyond the space. Cause a lot of these projects have that. So our base, our all NFTs reliant upon
Bitcoin mining or Ethereum mining, because Ethereum, the only way Ethereum transactions,
like those gas fees, right? Those gas fees are because you got to pay for the people that have
the miners, right? You got to pay the miners to do those transactions. So Ethereum, is Ethereum
reliant on mining? Yeah, for now. For now, until it goes proof of stake or whatever.
People think Ethereum is the only network you can have NFTs on. That's not true. Oh,
it's not true. Yeah, no, there's a ton of different networks. There's Solana, there's
environmentally friendly networks, might I add, that don't have the impact that Ethereum has.
Like my newest thing is Avax, Avalanche NFTs. I love that whole ecosystem. It's so fast,
so clean. And it's just got so many more use cases than I think even Ethereum NFTs do.
Really? I'm here for it. I'm definitely making a transition over.
To give you guys some history in this space, like 2017 was about the cryptocurrencies, right?
Emphasis on the currency. No one cares about that right now. Bitcoin is one.
Okay, no one's replacing Bitcoin. It used to be Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin had a thing going.
No, Bitcoin Cash is gone. Nowadays, it's about the Layer 1s and Layer 0s. To give you an example,
that's essentially networks like Ethereum that projects can be built on top of. And it's been a
mad dash for which Layer 1, Layer 0, etc., whatever you want to call it, which blockchain
platform is going to win the race, you know? I made a bunch of money. Shout out to this man here
off of a Layer 2 called Polygonmatic. That was my biggest W last year. That's the other one that
you can buy shit with on OpenSea is Polygon. Yes, which is great. I put a grand in at a penny.
I bailed out at 90 cents and then it shot up to $2.80. That was funny. Look, I'm not mad
about it. It was still a 900X return, 9000X return on investment. That's insane. It was great.
So you guys are just watching this shit all day long? All day. Well, for me, it goes back to why
I couldn't be a creator at the time was because building a business is just insane, especially
one that has the amount of, I think we're at 18 employees now, something like 18 employees and
we have three different business models all under one house and all thriving.
We're really trying to be a holistic company in the space that's doing a lot. We want to do
cool stuff. We've worked with some really cool brands. We've worked with really cool creators.
And so we're just trying to scale up here as far as we're going. I'm pretty happy with our team
right now. Trading bots launching in two weeks. We got the media company. We've done over, I think
their best month was something like three quarters of a million in deals. And then we have our Discord
community, which we broke 100,000 last month. It took a small dip. I think we went down about
6,000, 7,000 when the crypto market took a nosedive. People don't want to see their portfolios.
They don't want to think about it. They don't want to think about it. It seems like the people
that get the richest off that stuff are the people that just forget about the crypto they have.
Or they forget about their walls. It's the best way to do it.
I'm completely emotionless. Even though my portfolio goes up and down,
I think really what separates the people who are going to make it in early technology,
like crypto, is the conviction that they have behind their investments. It was not easy to get
here. Everyone's like, oh my god, you're so lucky. You invested in Ethereum when it was early. You
invested in Bitcoin when it was early. Yeah, okay, we saw portfolios. I hit six figures when I was 17.
I saw that portfolio decimated over the next year and a half, two years. You don't understand,
like people think it's easy. It's not easy to hold an asset down 90% and then back up again.
I watched my account go from 68,000 to 3,000 in 2018.
That hurts. The entire way down. You stayed on the train though, right?
Oh yeah, didn't sell a thing. Nice. The only ones that get hurt are the ones that jump off.
I tell people to take their profits because you don't want to be stuck holding the garbage
networks. A lot of stuff from 2017 ain't here now. It's going to be the same way next time.
It's just how it goes. You've got to consolidate into what I call the blue chips. Ethereum is a
great example of that. Ethereum is a blue chip? No, it's not going anywhere. It's the blueest
of blue, in my opinion. What do you mean by that? Ethereum is not about to die tomorrow.
There's a lot of vaporware projects, stuff that is clearly experimental and for whatever
reason could fail. Even the biggest projects in the space in 2017 are shadows of their former
selves. You just never know what's going to last. Ethereum and Bitcoin are like the two
biggest ones, right? Those aren't going anywhere. Look, everything that I invested in back in 2018
is still around today. Then there's some new ones that I've added on that are blue chip quality.
The networks are too large. There's too many people using them. The real thing is just find
use cases. One of the hardest things for real new use cases to come about is so many different
projects come out and they just want to build a coin. They come up with a problem to solve,
but there's really no problem there. This gets compared to Internet in the late 90s
where everybody had a website for everything. It's like, that's great. You can have it up,
but is it really worth anything? It's bringing value to people. How many people are actually
going to know about it or see about it? Or if you have 50 websites doing the same thing,
which one's going to come out on top? It makes it really hard in this space for the
new projects that are true blue and really solving a problem to be found or heard of,
because you just have thousands of shit projects, 20,000 coins. It's a trial by fire.
The crypto market is throwing shit at the wall and seeing what sticks for some of it,
and the projects that get really big will make those investors a lot of money. You're an early
investor in polygon, like we were. Great. As soon as they said it speeds up Ethereum,
and I was like, oh, I've been on Ethereum. It's slow as shit. I was like, yeah,
this is something that'll pop off. If I can trade on this, or I could do something on this,
and it makes my transactions faster, this is one cent. I was like, this will be a dollar easily.
There's other projects that do the same thing, or that's an example, but there's projects that
compete with each other, and some of them die, and some of them do really well. That's, like I
said, having conviction that you're picking the right one. You've got to know what you're doing.
It's the BS. Have you seen that house out? I just watched this. It's the most expensive house in
America. Oh, yeah, in Los Angeles. It's $500 million. I saw that. Jesus. I'm watching this thing,
and they're doing the walkthrough. It's ridiculous. 150,000 square feet or 100,000 square feet or
something like that. They're talking about, it's in bankruptcy court. Yeah, they said I was going
to sell for half price, like a quarter million, or $250 million. Right. The guy goes, they're
looking into tokenizing it. Why? Why? They have to throw a blockchain in there. It's like,
that's the type of shit that is repressing good projects, and stuff in this industry.
Wow. You guys hear a constitution down? Tokenizing it. What the fuck? You can fractionalize things.
You can fractionalize ownership. They did this with the original dose. So you're saying, like,
make the house, break up the house into individual, like, people can own parts of the house?
Imagine the logistic nightmare that is. So turning the house into, like, the fucking
S&P 500 or something. Imagine the deed, but cut up into thousands of little pieces.
Gotcha. Constitution down was a great example of that, but it almost worked, and then it didn't.
They were trying to buy a copy of the U.S. Constitution. They raised, like, oh, God,
I can't remember, tens of millions. Yeah, but you don't need a blockchain to do that.
Yeah, but it makes it. It's called a reggae plus offering.
But who, okay. My CCC and break up an asset in the pieces rally does that with Pokemon cards.
My friend's not going to do that. My friend's not going to go to a reggae offering, you know?
That's fair. That's fair.
They do what they do have is Ethereum, and they can commit that Ethereum to buy the U.S.
Constitution. Ultimately, it didn't work. They were outbid on Sotheby's, but it's a really cool
idea. And you know what's crazy? They ended up making a token out of it, a DAO token that ended
up doing, like, a 50 act or something crazy, crazy shit. Yeah.
What the fuck is a DAO token?
It's a governance token. So a DAO, right? A decentralized, autonomous organization. There's
three main things that came out of this bull run. DAO, not DAO. And there are governance tokens
that you can vote, essentially, to choose to determine the future of the project.
So it's kind of democratizing projects and things that people want to do. And there are
dows for all kinds of stuff. The governance token is what makes it that, which is kind of cool,
right? So you can do a lot of really interesting, nifty stuff, which Constitution DAO is just a
fun example of that. Think of it as like a company without a C-suite. And just everybody's kind of,
you say, like, governance token, like, the people decide. Like, truest form of democracy.
Is that similar to, like, what they say with the board ape? You'll be able to
stake it and earn, like, you, I heard, probably was telling me something about,
if you own the board ape NFT, you can stake it. And then they're going to create a token
called, like, Apecoin. And then once that comes out, you'll be able to earn this Apecoin without
doing anything. You just stake. Staking it means, like, you sign off that you're not going to sell
the NFT for X amount of time. It's a smart contract. So you pick a time and put it in there.
And staking, like, Tim's going to kill me for saying this, staking smart. In my book, like,
you can stake tokens that are already out there. Like, if you ever heard of, like, Crypto.com,
it's a great app. I have a lot of crypto assets on there. And I stake everything through there.
Because if you are, you know, like a certain tier, you get extra awards. So it's kind of,
like, locking your money up at a CD in the bank. Only instead of getting some shit percentage,
you're getting 6, 10, some 15% PA on your crypto.
You can get 30% and still considered relatively safe, you know?
For holding it. So yeah, it's like a certificate of deposit, but for your crypto funds. And now,
yeah, it's pouring over into the NFT space. Right. I can see how it makes the NFTs more
valuable if you claim you're not going to sell it for a certain amount of time.
Sure. I still don't understand, like, how they can make a coin, how you get paid from that.
I mean, it all comes down to what they're going to use it for. I'm not a board-aid member. I
couldn't give a shit really about what they're doing. But, you know, I'm sure they're going to,
it'll be something cool. Maybe you can buy exclusive merch with it. Maybe you can
gain exclusive VIP access into a club on the yacht in Miami or something crazy, you know?
So there's a lot of cool utility you can do. I don't know necessarily if it's a governance token.
But, you know, the use case is whatever they decide. I mean, I'm not going to buy any myself.
I don't think personally. But I'm sure it will be tradable like any other decentralized,
you know, exchange. They can just list it on there and, you know, get it going.
Any swap?
Interesting. Do people still mine cryptocurrency to make money?
Yeah. It's just the the issue is that with every consensus mechanism, consensus algorithm,
form of consensus, essentially how a blockchain works, right? You have proof of work. You have
proof of stake. You have dedicated proof of stake. You have all these kind of, you know, you have a
DAG directed acyclic graph technology like Hadera Hashgraph and Constellation Network.
And so there's a bunch of different like algorithms and ways to do it. Bitcoin mining
and Ethereum mining for most people is not going to be an endeavor that's worthwhile.
Because Bitcoin specifically, you need a lot of money.
Yeah, you got to buy those crazy specialized, what the fuck are they called?
Ant miners.
From Bitmain out of China. And unless you have like a handshake agreement where you can get
a bunch of miners, it's going to be difficult. You're going to be waiting months to year.
If you don't get scammed.
If you don't get scammed.
I mean, it's very tough to secure these legitimately. And you need, I assume, another handshake
agreement with the local government, because I don't know, you know, what the rate of power is
at this place. But, you know, unless you got some cheap energy, you're not going to make much.
You're really.
Yeah, it's fucking ridiculous. I'd like dip my toe into it a little bit.
And I bought like six of the 30 90s and it makes me like $20 a day.
So that's Ethereum. You're mining Ethereum, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, this is my biggest gripe is that Ethereum 2.0 is not here. Ethereum is switching
from proof of work.
Right. To proof of stake.
Right. And then Ethereum mining is going to be dead and GPU mining is going to be worthless
until I find another coin to mine, right? Which would be a while.
I mean, you can actually mine a couple different things.
Going to nodes.
Yeah.
What's a node?
Nodes are my new favorite thing, man. I make like a few hundred bucks a day just by running
nodes.
What the hell is a node?
It's basically you're, you're, you're sometimes you're purchasing a node on a network, right?
Or you're normally with nodes, you're not like staking. So like with staking, you get your
coin back, right? But with purchasing a node, you're actually purchasing it. So like
strong block, for instance.
Oh, I don't know what that is.
All right. What do we do? What about Thor?
We'll do Thor network.
Sure.
Like Thor network, Thor finance.
There's dubious for anybody who's new to this.
Nodes are very dubious. There are some that are good, some that are questionable.
You need a good strategy and you need a good exit plan, but essentially you're helping like
the network, whatever protocol that is, like approve, approve transactions, right?
You're validating transactions on a network.
And there are Bitcoin nodes too, but you're not getting paid.
And you know, it's not a piece of hardware.
No, you can actually run it right on your computer.
And some of them are, this is, this is my rule of thumb with them.
The easier they are to set up, the more risky they are.
Like that is, that is, that's with anything, right?
Right. The easier they're, like Hex.
But some of it, some of it does make sense.
I have heard of Hex. That guy's been trying to get on this podcast.
Richard Hart.
Yes.
So Richard Hart is a very interesting, and I know this.
He hasn't been trying to get on here.
Somebody's been trying to set it up to get him on here.
Richard Hart, and they're going to see, they're going to,
I know I'm going to get tagged on Twitter, in my opinion,
is running what I would consider to be a
project with questionable fundamentals.
We'll just say that.
What's he doing?
Hex is essentially a clone of Ethereum.
You have to, you have to stake your Hex for a long time.
It's, they're also running something called Pulse Chain.
You have to sacrifice to get on the Pulse Chain.
I don't really mess with it.
Sacrifice what?
Your baby?
Sacrifice your Hex to get on to get Pulse.
Pure first blood.
I'm not, I'm not a Hex expert.
I've only been on the website a few times.
I've, you know, looked at their community.
I've been through their stuff.
I've looked at what they're doing.
On their website, if you want to scroll down and look at the very bottom,
there's a piece of text.
Abusive text.
A piece of text.
It's a, it's a small little paragraph.
It's essentially like saying, you know,
this is a political statement.
You're, you want, you're behind freedom of speech.
You know, this is not investment.
Also, you know, you have to do this
if you're about free speech and, and, and this and that.
And I'm like, what is this, man?
And the network is really nothing new, in my opinion.
It's like, and people will, I know they're going to come with me.
In my opinion, Hex is just like the new BitConnect.
In my opinion.
Who's going to come at you?
They have a very dedicated community.
Fripped out of Twitter.
I have, yeah, they have gone through all my videos
and made hate clips.
I'm actually in a music video.
I'm in a music video.
They call, they call us Furu's.
Furu's.
Yeah.
And there's a Hex rap video where it's like, you know,
they actually have a few of my buddies
and they have them, they have them in caskets.
They have their picture and a casket.
And it's like, they're burying the Furu's.
It's like weird.
It's a weird.
Why?
Because you guys talk about Hex.
Yeah.
Because like, if you're not with us, you're against us.
I have nothing against Hex investors.
I just don't think the network is good.
It doesn't do much.
I think it's just like, there's a reason
it's not on CoinMarketCap.
Where they say it should be.
There's a lot of networks that do the same thing.
I think it's so hilarious that it's so much competition
in all these crypto networks and crypto coins
and people who are invested in certain ones.
It's like, it's like such a like a tribal competitive world
in crypto, especially when I fucking,
you combine it with social media.
It's just like pouring gas on fire.
You can do anything you want.
You can fork, like you can fork Uniswap, right?
This is what, what's his name?
Tai Lopez is doing.
He has the Radio Chakra.
Oh my God, I forgot about that guy.
He has the Radio Shack brand.
And essentially, I looked into this a little bit.
He's like forking Uniswap and then calling it Radio Shack
or something like that.
Like a Radio Shack decentralized exchange.
He bought Radio Shack?
He has the rights to it.
So he's actually got the rights to a bunch of like old
companies that no one gives a shit about.
And he's trying to like modernize the brand.
Nostalgic.
I mean, I don't know anyone who's going to use that.
Maybe like.
That's what Gary Vee always talks about.
Gary Vee's a big crypto guy too.
Gary Vee's more, he's more of an NFT guy.
Gary Vee's a visionary in a lot of ways.
I think he really, you know, if anyone,
if there's anyone to credit with like
showing that NFTs are not just monkey pictures,
it's Gary Vee.
I got to give him props, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's very knowledgeable about this stuff.
I pretty much everything I know,
I learned from watching his videos.
Nice.
Yeah.
So Tai Lopez is big into this stuff, huh?
Is he selling NFTs too?
I couldn't give a shit.
I don't know.
I just saw that someone making fun of it.
The problem, like I said, with crypto
is it attracts the grifters because it's easy to grift,
you know?
And I've had very public beef with people
on YouTube and other places.
Well, just, you know, we're not going to elaborate on that,
but let's just say we have different.
Why not?
We should elaborate crypto beef.
Well, there are just people that I disagree with
that I think that are leading the space
in a direction that I don't agree with.
And so we have our moments, you know?
He's no BS crypto.
If I think it's BS, I'm going to tell him it's BS.
We can pull him up on the TV and shame him right now.
Yeah, we can look at it right now.
Call him out.
Richard Hart, where you at, bitch?
It's not Richard Hart.
Now, Richard Hart, you know, he's not actually,
there's worse people than Richard Hart.
Yeah.
Well, he looks very entertaining.
He's very charismatic.
He's got a really cool background on his videos.
He has a way of like, you know, he's like,
they got the Charles Manson vibe.
Yeah, I dig that.
Where's he live?
Maybe I should get him on here.
That would be an interesting episode.
I would love to see you guys.
He's only live.
God, no.
But I'm sure he would do it.
He has a thing where he like, you know, has people on his,
he wants to go on people's shows to debate.
He's a very good debater.
But he doesn't do it in person though.
Everything he does is remote.
Well, because it's a security risk.
He is quite, you know, he has a lot of value in crypto.
And there's a lot of people who just, you know, don't like him.
So I don't blame him.
You know, you know, people, people in crypto are kind of weird like that.
You know, I was, I was just seeing the other day,
it was just kind of funny, kind of off topic.
Someone's tracking Elon Musk's private.
That is so sick.
That was so funny.
Oh, I was, actually, I was watching that on,
that was on TV this morning.
They were interviewing him on like fucking MSNBC or something like that.
Like the kid's gone full blown mainstream.
Blown up.
Make a career out of anything, man.
That is crazy.
His jet goes everywhere, bro.
Okay, pull up that Twitter account, Elon Musk's jet.
He goes from like Austin, Texas to Sacramento, California,
like three times a day in his jet.
I didn't know people traveled that much.
Like what, what are you, what are these people doing?
Yeah, there it is.
Find his actual, go to his feed so you can see all of his posts.
That looks like Florida.
He just, he just installed a permit.
He had like 50,000 followers two days ago.
Now he's got a quarter million followers.
Or did they do the rocket launch today?
Oh, bro, I was standing outside my office
and we saw some crazy shit in the air.
That's probably it that had to be it.
We were like, what the fuck is that today?
Yeah, right before I could talk to you on the phone.
Really?
Me and Mike were standing outside and we were like,
what the fuck is that?
Oh, they had a launch day.
It was some alien looking shit.
Yeah.
Yeah, they were.
I've never seen that before.
They were going to do it yesterday.
Is his jet in Cape Canapal right now?
I'm so glad you brought that up because we were tripping from it.
Oh, yeah.
Yesterday, they were like literally aborted three seconds
before launch because the cruise ship just plowed through the,
like, no, no ship.
No flight apparently.
Oh, really?
Oh, yeah.
It was supposed to launch yesterday at four o'clock.
Oh, my God.
That's it.
There's a cruise ship.
Go up to the 31st.
See if it was in Florida.
No.
Elon Musk's jet.
He flew public to get here.
That's funny.
Yeah, and he offered the guy $5,000,000 to take it down.
It was a cheapskate.
Didn't he say $50,000,000?
And the kid responded and he's like, I'll do it.
He's like, I can't do it for less than $50,000,000.
He undersold.
Oh, yeah.
I was going to say $5,000,000.
Elon offered him $5,000,000.
Dude's a billionaire.
Yeah, that's like me.
I said, see me for $50,000,000, bud.
That's the equivalent of like three pennies that you find
in your spare change in the pocket of your life.
$5,000,000.
But I understand it's about, you know, like,
like I have had people who squat on my domains,
my like my Ethereum name service domain.
Somebody was squatting on it for the longest time.
We actually got into a bit of a feud.
But he ended up giving it to me.
You know, I didn't want to pay him for it
because it's just like, I don't negotiate with terrorists
like that.
But he gave it to me after like, I did some charity.
I did a charity NFT drop.
So like, we raised some money for St. Jude's.
It was cool.
People got to hop on the phone with me.
Some people got like artwork.
You know, it was like a nice little thing I partnered
with they did to do.
Cool.
So, you know.
I had a guy in here today.
His name was Rick Ross.
And he's, he owned, he owned rickrosse.com.
And I think Rick, the rapper Alfred,
I'm like less than a thousand bucks for it.
Wow.
He eventually sold it for, I think around 10,000, but.
I feel bad.
I actually just curved Rick Ross.
He was trying to go live with me, but I was moving
and I was like, dude, I'm sorry.
He was trying to do what?
He has a new NFT collection coming up.
Oh, does he really?
He wanted me to do a live with him on TikTok.
I was like, I'm moving.
Too busy.
You're going to be propped up on my, on my hookah.
Like to, to, I don't have a stand.
It's all in a box.
I hope he does all pictures of Rick Ross's NFTs.
Is this the real Rick Ross or is this Rick Ross?
No, it's not.
Pull up.
Honestly, it looks like.
Which Rick Ross?
What?
It was Lakota did a live stream.
Free Ricky, freeway Ricky.
Oh, the original.
Oh, not the, not the rapper.
Oh, no.
We're going to have a different Rick Ross.
Oh, the OG Rick Ross.
Yeah, the OG.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The original.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
There's a little bit of name, name difference there,
but not really.
Well, when you say Rick Ross,
everyone thinks of the fucking hip hop artist.
Rapper.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's, I guess he must be like pissed off
that he keeps getting mistaken for that.
You know, like I would be kind of pissed.
Who does?
The original, right?
Yeah.
I think he tried to sue him for that.
I think he changed his name actually because of that.
He changed it to freeway after Rick Ross?
No, I think Rick Ross changed it.
The rapper changed his name because that guy got out of prison.
I think he sued him for stealing his name.
I heard that Rick Ross, the rapper,
owns the biggest swimming pool in the United States.
Really?
At his house.
He's like a house in Atlanta.
He got some big house.
Remember when Forgiotto,
He does a lot of swimming.
Remember when Forgiotto blow into his big house party
and they showed the big house and not my name, but Atlanta?
Apparently that's the biggest swimming pool in the world.
Not the world, the U.S.
I think he does a lot of float and I don't think he does a lot of float.
So, all right.
One thing I'm trying to understand is this proof of stake with Ethereum.
That's going to shut down all the Ethereum miners and now there won't be any gas fees
on Ethereum when you try to make transactions.
No.
So, gas fees, depending on, you are going to pay a gas fee, right?
Unless you're...
But you don't pay it with Bitcoin, right?
You do.
You do pay it with Bitcoin?
Yeah, yeah.
So, you know, there's going to be a cost always to send something.
Unless you're using a technology like Nano,
which uses Block lattice to no fee.
Or Polygon.
Polygon has fees too.
They're just very nominal.
You have, you're paying a quarter of a cent.
Okay.
And that's what's exciting is like that, you know,
you're paying a quarter of a cent instead of a $200,
$200 fee, you know, that frustrating, but you just have to bite the bullet because
everything's on Ethereum.
It's just the biggest one there is.
It's the strongest network.
But no, yeah, even when Ethereum switches to proof of stake,
the gas fees theoretically should increase.
They just had an update last year,
which was supposed to help the gas fees,
but all it did was stabilize them to be high consistently
instead of bringing them down to a consistent price.
So my hope is that Ethereum comes to a point where
combined with the layer twos that it has,
like Polygon, that it's affordable for the average person,
but it's not.
So I tell people, I used to tell people,
go get some Ethereum and hop into DeFi.
Go, you know, experiment with new technology,
but it's just not feasible because you're going to need
five, 600 bucks to do anything on Ethereum.
So I tell people, go to the buying a smart chain,
go to Avalanche, go to Polkadot.
What is it?
What are you talking about?
I don't know what Avalanche, Polkadot, any of that is.
Different networks.
Different networks.
Like Ethereum.
Like Ethereum.
For the sort of, but not really.
Yes, in this scenario, yes, they are.
You can just imagine that you log in
and you can use the blockchain through a wallet.
There are some EVM compatible networks,
the Ethereum virtual machine.
A lot of the tech is just Ethereum forked and changed lately.
Okay, yeah, I see what you're saying.
But like Solana is non-EVM compatible, it's a good example.
Solana has been like this big up and comer.
I think it's overrated, but.
Really?
Yeah, centralized.
They sacrificed.
Right on EVM compatible.
They're compatible with the same layout as the Ethereum.
Like your MetaMask, when you log in to MetaMask,
it's EVM compatible.
So all you have to do is add the network
and it's the seamless integration.
You know, but like Solana, you need the Phantom wallet,
which they just raised 106 million.
I think today.
Solana did?
Phantom, a wallet on Solana.
A wallet.
Okay.
Solana has a lot of.
See, I think it's so much more confusing
than you have all these fucking wallets.
You got Coinbase wallet, MetaMask wallet.
So that's why I was saying like EVM compatible,
why it's so important is because if you play in like DeFi land,
yeah, or that's not a real place.
But you know what I mean?
Like if you.
It is a project, I think.
Is it?
If you, the names, the names kill me.
If you play in the space and you're connecting,
and you're doing blockchain gaming
or something like that, right?
Or you're running nodes or you're trading your crypto or.
NFTs.
NFTs, right?
You know, like for most people, they use MetaMask.
Right.
So I, you know, I have downloaded MetaMask on as an extension.
And you say like, oh, it's compatible on that network.
That network is compatible with that wallet.
And it allows me to just connect.
The same address.
To that site.
Okay.
So in the future.
A wallet's probably going to be as common
as like a social media account.
Like if you don't have one, like you're probably not going
to be able to walk around Web 3 that easily.
And Web 3 is already here.
What the fuck does Web 3 even mean?
It's a bullshit term.
It's a bullshit term.
Like when people ask me, hey man,
what are the best Web 3 coins?
I'm like, motherfucker, this is Web 3.
Like we're in Web 3.
Okay.
So we're in Web.
So it's like version 3 of the Web?
Well, yeah.
So like we're removing sort of the big tech giants
from the equation.
Or at least that's what we're trying to do.
Not only the financial middle men,
but the social middle men.
We want to essentially eliminate a lot of these corporations
with so much power over us through Web 3.
And that sucked the profits.
So like your data, your Facebook and Twitter.
It's ownership.
That's probably the best way to put it.
How is that going to happen?
Do you know how much money I've made
from just using DeFi protocols?
I don't even know what a DeFi protocol is.
From DeFi projects.
So like the Ethereum name service, right?
Dot, you know, ensdomains.eath.
You ever heard those?
No.
You've seen those?
So it's like, so the blockchainboy.eath.
The blockchainboy.eath exists.
Okay.
And instead of having.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Dot eath.
Yeah.
That's why those Twitter people have their Twitter name.eath.
Exactly.
So instead of a bullshit wallet,
like no one wants to use that,
you just type in the blockchainboy.eath
and you can send me whatever you want.
For better or for worse.
That's just a problem.
In the browser.
In any browser.
In a MetaMask or like a, if you want to send me crypto,
it's an address.
But you could also use it as a domain name.
You know, if you want to,
if you want to really build decentralized websites.
You know, ICP is probably my favorite,
like decentralized way to build stuff
because they do it more on the blockchain
instead of compromising on central.
An easy use case example would be like presearch.
Have you heard of presearch?
No.
Presearch is like Google that doesn't screw you.
Like, so every time I search on presearch,
instead of Google getting paid by XYZ advertiser.
Right.
Right.
I get paid.
So I hook my wallet up to presearch.
And now, every time I search for something,
it's a search engine.
It actually searches Google, Yahoo, DuckDuckGo,
YouTube, like all these other sites.
And now, when I search for something.
Yeah.
I see my account go up by like 15 cents.
Every time I search.
It's like Brave browser.
You heard of Brave browser?
I have heard of that, yeah.
Basic attention token.
You're rewarded for the ads that you see,
essentially, and stuff like that.
So you get paid to use it.
Literally use it.
We're taking away the tools that made the Elon Musk's,
the tech giants of the world,
and giving it to the people that use the networks
in the first place.
I got an airdrop for having an Ethereum name.
And that airdrop was worth $3,000 to $4,000.
So they did a business insider article about it.
Airdrop?
It was cool.
Airdrops are fucking sweet, dude.
What the fuck is an airdrop, dude?
If you're at early enough.
Hey, he works construction full-time.
I just fucking do these podcasts,
but this is like the second or third crypto podcast
I've ever done.
We can get really, we can get people in, man.
Yeah, there's, I'm still on web one.
It would take weeks and weeks and weeks.
Think of it like this.
You're being rewarded for using a network
and providing value to that network.
Who pays you?
The same people that would pay the company.
So I just routed through you.
It is, no, not necessarily.
Airdrops are a little different.
Oh, not for airdrops.
I was talking like with pre-search
and the advertisers and things like that.
Yeah, that's, that's.
Owning your own data.
Like, like you're you, you have, you have value too.
Like you hear the term, like if the product's free,
you're the product.
Yes.
Yeah.
So that's like on websites.
When you go and use a free product,
they're collecting data about you
and selling it to another company.
Right.
And then that person's profiting off of it
and it's like leaving you in the dust
with no show for anything that you just provided
to that company.
See what I mean?
So web three is essentially a way to
sort of, it's complicated to explain
without being too like detailed about it.
But the NS airdrop, it was a governance airdrop.
So a governance token was airdropped to you.
Depending on how long you'd had your name,
how many you had, how long you basically
reserved it for.
Some people made 60 grand, man.
I mean, it was crazy, you know,
that people really make a lot of money from these,
you know, we had one called looks rare.
It's an NFT marketplace.
And I think my airdrop from that was like
five grand, maybe six and.
And now look, like, like, like,
it's not like here's just $5,000.
Congratulations for holding your stuff.
You got to qualify for him.
Like we'll also like why you would get airdropped.
Like you said, airdropped a governance token, right?
So like if I own something and I'm on that network, right?
And they know that I'm a holder of whatever that is, right?
They can then program it to go,
okay, we're going to do a massive airdrop, right?
Hook up your wallet, those parameters will validate
that you are an owner of XYZ coin, right?
And then we're now giving all the owners of this
an airdrop of tokens, right?
In that case was a governance token.
So now they're airdropping these governance tokens.
And now when he says, like,
oh, I made five grand off of that,
he then took the governance tokens that he got
and was like, I'm going to sell these right away
because they're valuable, right?
People want those governance and will go and sell it, right?
And then boom, you got an airdrop of $5,000 worth
of governance tokens that you just sold immediately.
So on these search engines or browsers or whatever,
are there people like people paying to be seen on there?
I mean, it's just like any other browser.
It just it's rewarding you for using it.
I mean, I'm not a huge brave guy.
I've never really used, you know,
Josh is a big brave browser guy.
But, you know, best example of this that people,
that is topical that people will know,
is this looks rare marketplace that just dropped
because OpenSea is terrible.
They blew up real quick.
They didn't have the staff to support billions of dollars
flowing in and they made some mistakes.
And that's, you know, it's okay.
OpenSea, they've done a lot for the space,
but there's another NFT marketplace called Looks Rare
that airdropped a bunch of tokens to anyone
who would like traded NFTs on OpenSea, I believe.
And all you had to do was like list an NFT on their marketplace.
And people got a lot of money from that.
And so now they're a real competitor.
They're sometimes outdoing the volume on OpenSea.
So how do you think that these types of browsers
or search engines or whatever are going to take over websites
like Twitter and Facebook and decentralize the powers
that be on the internet, the monopolies?
It's going to be niche for a while, but I think we'll see
if we continue to see the crypto market grow and expand,
I think we'll see better alternatives form
because people, there's a financial incentive
for people to be on these platforms.
So they are rewarded for using these platforms.
And, you know, it's hard to turn that down,
especially when you know you're getting a comparable experience.
But it's not going to be easy by any means.
And a lot of what like these big,
what two companies are doing
is they're kind of trying to co-op the movement.
Back in 2017, it was really core DeFi people.
I mean, look at who sits on the Hedera hashgraph,
the council, right?
Hedera is not a very good network in my opinion.
But you can have your opinions.
They're doing good steps.
They're trying to decentralize.
That's the point of a blockchain.
But the council members on Hedera are huge corporations.
Is that really the spirit of what that is?
Is that the network we want to use?
I don't think so, personally.
It's a fine line, too.
Because, you know, like you were saying,
like with OpenSea being too big
or not being big enough to handle everything,
like with a lot of this stuff,
DAOs that come up and these different protocols that come up,
like there's a lot of unforeseen consequences that can occur
and stuff that we can or they're trying to hold,
you know, big tech accountable for.
Like you see the hearings and this and that
and they drag like Jack Dorsey or, you know,
whoever out in front of the committees.
And, you know, it's like to the to the mass public,
it's kind of a wake-up call to realize like,
oh, wow, our politicians don't know shit about the internet.
They're trying to regulate it.
Yeah, it's kind of hilarious.
Yeah, it's rough, but then to that same fact,
it's like those types of hearings and pressures
on those guys are what stop, you know, like,
like trafficking from going on, on Twitter or sites.
It's those type of pressures that like stop that.
So when you have a decentralized network,
you really need to, and why we say like,
oh, community is so important.
Like you need to foster a good community.
Like you need to build a good community.
Otherwise, the project could go south real fast, you know,
because who knows who comes onto that network
or what the governance is on that.
One of the, one of the projects I'm working with
a little bit is called BBS network.
Essentially think of it like a Reddit on the blockchain.
Every post is an NFT.
You can buy it.
You can host your own BBS.
They're really trying to stop the shitposting.
And it's funny because that's when you remove the barriers,
when people are anonymous, shitposting is what happens.
And it's what happens a lot in DeFi.
That's why there's so many good memes.
You know, that's why you see you people
want to buy the Constitution.
Why do they want to buy the Constitution for the meme?
I think it's interesting to see it's really a social experiment
as much as we want to say the computers are the ones
that are doing this and that.
But it's really goes back to the community
and the social aspect of it.
We're really just doing a huge experiment
that has a lot of implication on the future of this tech.
And to a lot of people, they just don't...
They're not there yet.
And that's okay.
But it will come a time when this stuff is integrated.
It's interesting.
It is a community, but a lot of the people in the community,
they're also anonymous, right?
It's essentially something similar to Reddit or 4chan.
Yeah.
I mean, there are some projects that are run by
semi-anonymous or anonymous people.
Being doxxed is very important.
I don't invest in projects that are doxxed.
Right.
When you're the head of the projects,
you want to be like everyone has to know who you are in real life.
Yeah.
But you say community.
Nobody knows who these people really are.
Like most of the people are just anonymous.
Reputation is everything, you know?
And crypto is a very small space, professionally speaking.
Everybody knows or at least has heard of somebody else.
Reputation is important.
There's probably also that.
It's weird though, because there's so many people
on crypto Twitter.
I was just talking to a guy there today
and he's got like...
His name is like some weird...
I think it was like hiton.eth.
And he's got like 300,000 followers.
I don't know who the hell he was.
His profile image was an NFT.
And he says he's like a CEO of 12 different companies.
And it's like, how do you know who the hell this guy is in real life?
You know what I mean?
They have so many followers.
So many people obviously trust him and follow him.
I saw like he was followed by Obama.
But like he was like some made up name
with a made up profile picture.
Smoke and mirrors, bro.
I told you, man, this industry is...
There are a lot of smoke and mirrors.
Maybe it's like an omurta though to the...
Like if you said, who's the Jesus of cryptocurrency?
Satoshi Nakamoto.
Right, right.
He knows who the fuck that guy was.
And who is Satoshi Nakamoto.
How fanning I think it was multiple people.
So like if you're in the space
and you want to idolize somebody,
you're idolizing somebody who isn't doxxed.
Right.
You know, like so.
There's something to it when...
There's something to that though.
Like people that are anonymous, they're more mysterious.
When you don't know like where they are
or what they look like.
It also makes them like...
It almost makes them like more of an idol.
Or like a God like figure, you know what I mean?
People can assign who they want.
Like you can assign what they look like
in your own head based on something else.
And this is actually very funny.
One of the guys who got exposed
is a guy named Beanie Maxi on Twitter.
He's had some involvements with other projects that people...
You know, I don't have really a side.
I just think it's funny.
People got pissed off at him
and they found out who he was.
And now it's just memes of him.
And he's like not taking it seriously.
You know, because he's like some like white dude
who just looks like your average guy
and it's like, oh, that's you are.
I found it.
He's just a normal guy.
Now no one cares.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I think it's cool, you know, like...
It is cool.
It's just exciting.
Every day is exciting in this space.
Yeah.
Well, it's like the beginning of the regular internet.
Everything when everything was anonymous.
People there were message boards.
People posted shit anonymously.
No one had to worry about it.
And, you know, when everyone had to become
into your social security number
to have an account on Twitter,
then, you know, they start selling your data
and it just becomes more corrupt.
But it's a fun time, man.
Like, and also, I think this is the best space
for anyone who wants to be an entrepreneur to build in.
You can build in a lot of...
I'm very bullish on the creator economy.
I'm very bullish on crypto.
I'm very bullish on tech.
And I think Web 3 is a nice merger of a lot of these.
And I think it's the best space for anyone to build in
who wants to do something great, in my opinion.
Yeah.
A lot of people, especially when it comes to the creator stuff
and the social media stuff,
everybody in the creator side of things
complains about how the tech companies
like to censor everything you're talking about.
It happened to me.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I was almost banned.
For what?
They had a whole CNBC article in this.
Really?
Yeah.
I was almost banned.
It wasn't just me.
Everyone was getting heat.
And, you know, why?
It was because the assholes were pumping garbage coins,
like SafeMoon.
Garbage project.
You know the guy originally in SafeMoon?
Did any of the barstool guy promote that?
I think so.
Yeah.
So it's familiar.
Yeah.
Dude, the original guy was like
off the back of a cereal box on their website
before they changed it.
SafeMoon was a scam that got too big to fail almost.
And they had to take it legit, in my opinion, allegedly.
So what happened to you?
What did you post to video?
You just, TikTok was banning us.
Oh, TikTok bans everybody.
Oh, yeah.
But it was specific to crypto.
All the crypto, it was a huge article.
Like 12 different people were in there.
It was, but I think, you know,
I think they figured out like who's legit now
because one of the marketing heads at TikTok
follows me now.
And so they don't ban my posts anymore.
Oh, yeah?
You know, yeah.
It was sweet.
One day I woke up, I had gotten permanently banned
like for like 24 hours.
And I woke up and never again was there a video down.
So I don't know who the TikTok gods are,
but thank you for knowing me.
You got blessed.
I remember being in my office and him calling me,
going, hey, bro, I think I just got banned.
And I was like, and this was at a point where he was
the only creator that we had under the kryptonite brand.
And we were launching a new product in our discord.
Like we had just launched the price.
And I was like, oh my God, it's all crumbling at this moment.
He goes, yeah, man, I don't know what we're going to do.
Yeah, man.
It's not comforting having the future of your business
reliant on these social media networks.
No, especially when they ban you for everything.
But social media is the single most powerful tool
for businesses now.
For sure.
You know, like hands down.
TikTok's still very underrated.
You guys should be posting clips to TikTok.
Can you pull up this guy's TikTok?
What's your TikTok name?
The blockchain boy on TikTok.
Blockchain boy.
Oh, wow.
That was quick.
Damn.
Holy shit.
Austin, you're on.
Shit.
Damn, 500,000 followers on TikTok.
Doesn't mean anything.
Six million likes.
Damn.
followers.
Dude, followers don't mean shit on TikTok.
Really?
No.
The only thing that matters on TikTok is your content good.
It'll be seen.
You know how much money I make from the creator fund?
I think maybe $1,000 a month.
On TikTok?
And I rack in tens of millions of views on TikTok.
And I rack in that very low number.
What makes a video good on TikTok?
You have to learn how to engage people.
You have to learn how to grab attention.
There's a certain way to make TikTok content.
Have you ever made a video
to the chicken and macaroni dance?
No.
I can't say I have.
I'll make one for you if you want it.
Will you?
Yeah.
Do you know what song I'm talking about?
I have no idea.
I won't sing it for the sake of not getting clipped,
but yeah, I do.
But yeah, I've been taking a break from posting
because I'm moving.
But like.
So you just find the popular songs on,
or the popular trending songs on TikTok
and you make a video to that song, right?
Sort of.
I mean, you know, you have to hop on trends,
but you know, that's not going to build a community.
You have to offer value to people.
You have to create that engaging content
that's going to bring people back.
What are you offering them?
It's not like, oh, what are you selling them?
Are you providing value?
Are you educating?
Are you being funny?
Are you like, you know, causing an emotion
in people, whether that's positive or negative?
Interesting.
You have to learn how to communicate effectively
and do it in 60 seconds.
And that's the hardest part.
But I've gotten pretty good at it, you know?
Like, I think.
Sound like it.
Thanks, man.
I appreciate that.
Yeah.
The craft has been slowly evolving.
So when the fuck is Bitcoin and Ethereum
and all these cryptos going to come back
to what they were two weeks ago, a month ago?
That is a very open-ended question
because they're tied to the stock market right now.
They are tied to the stock market.
Why is that?
Because think of it like this.
Like, where's the liquidity for the stock market
coming from?
From the, you know, the money printing
and that liquidity in the stock market is going crazy
and it provides other funds to invest in crypto.
And crypto is seen as a speculative risky asset.
So it's like the stock market, like, did a line of crack.
And yeah.
So crypto will mirror almost sort of the movements
of what the stock market does.
But there will be a time when it's decoupled
from the stock market eventually.
You think?
Yeah.
Even with all the regulation
and they're talking about with Biden trying to regulate it
and all that shit in the news about it and.
Dude, Biden couldn't regulate, you know, two damp socks.
I don't think they understand it enough to regulate it.
And that's what scares me, honestly.
Probably, and you're probably right.
I disagree a little bit.
I think that we'll see a good comeback this year in crypto.
I do think we'll start seeing those higher highs this year
before we go into an entire bear market, if you will.
But I think that crypto, you know, the reason it tracks it
is because so many of the big boys are now here.
You know, like so much big money is now in crypto.
It's like it's no longer a question.
People are like, when's the institution?
When the institution, the institutional money is in crypto now.
And it's still growing.
But for the most part, like I think that I think crypto
single-handedly this time around saved our economy
from going into complete despair back in 2020.
Like I really do believe that that's why we started seeing
that run up in crypto.
And we're people like, how are we going to start trading things
when you had like something like 2020 happen?
You know, I mean, having a new asset class, it's happened before.
Like it happened in the 1970s.
It happened when before like mortgages and real estate
were like collateralized and being sold around everywhere.
We were going into an economic collapse.
And they were like, well, let's just create a new financial industry.
And they were like, so we'll take mortgages
and we'll start trading them like stocks.
And then a whole housing market of products came out
and people started trading.
This is obviously a much grander scale.
But I think that there was a lot of behind the scenes going,
hey, cryptocurrency could save the economy.
We could run this out a little bit more.
And also back in 2017, the retailers controlled the market.
Now retail market is only 30% of the volume.
If that, it's the institutions.
It's the bots.
It's the whales.
And they're manipulating it.
I mean, they will manipulate it as much as they can.
It's very easy to do.
And they will continue to do so until I guess the regulations come in.
And then, you know, the, you know, the JPMorgan's,
the official boy step in, although some of them are already stepping in.
I mean, even with the reports, even when I was leaving,
like they weren't really talking about it.
I mean, there was whispers around it.
But now they're like full on in their like, in their company reports.
They have whole crypto sections like for financial advisors, for, for all that.
Like they brief on how to talk to your clients about cryptocurrencies.
How would the government regulating it affect it?
What would it change?
Fiat gateways without these exchanges.
No more anonymous exchanges.
Well, no, that's basically dead.
Coinbase reports to the IRS and anonymous exchanges.
I mean, they're already going after Uniswap.
This is already, they're already looking into that.
Honestly, I think as much as, as much as I give Ripple and XRP, you know,
I think that they're doing us a favor by keeping the SEC occupied.
Because I think they're going to come to Binance.
Binance is next up, man.
Binance is next up.
They did, you know, Binance did a lot for the space, man.
I remember trading BNB at $5.
They did a lot for the space.
They hopped in and went.
They didn't really care about the regulations.
They just did what they were going to do, made a bunch of money,
and now they're the king of the space.
Government don't like that.
You know what I'm saying?
Derivatives markets have been closing ever since the first of this year
across multiple countries from Binance.
There's only a little sus activity going on.
Derivatives markets really power the crypto prices.
A lot of these fluctuations up and down.
People getting liquidated, longs and shorts.
And you know, we're seeing this kind of, this kind of happen.
Another thing is I'm worried about is Tether a little bit.
You know, TetherFud's been around for a while.
I don't trust them.
I don't hold a lot of Tether if I can help it.
We'll see.
But I think 2021 is going to, or 2022 is going to be quite rocky in my opinion.
I'm a little more, not bearish, but I'm more like,
okay, let's see what they're going to do with the regulations.
Let's see, you know, what projects they're going to come after.
And I'm sure it's going to have a cascading effect on the rest of us.
Before we can actually see the industry start to grow in a more professional manner.
Yeah, I don't like, I don't like guessing and, and I'm not always right,
which is, which is why I decided to create a bot company in the beginning.
Because I was like, I'm going to let smarter people build something to handle this
off a set set of protocols.
And it kicks ass.
It does.
We've been testing it.
We've been testing it now for, I think three months.
And we did an alpha test with like small group people.
And it got a 90% hit rate, which means 90% of the time was accurate.
Which is way more than I am.
So I was super happy about that.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's wild.
Yeah.
It's good times.
It tells you, it basically what it does is it'll break down a ton of different coins.
And it'll tell you when to get in and out of them.
And for the most profit, you know.
Huh.
So it's like.
Got a guy make 300%, 300% in one trade.
Some crazy shit.
Cause he was just like, we told people like, Hey, you don't have to trade dog.
This is just for your reference, like to see if you like it or not.
Guy was doing 100x leverage.
They wouldn't let me in the chat.
I wanted to come say hi, you know, but no.
We wouldn't let him in.
I'm a bit of a.
We don't want you in there tick talking on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was a hard, that was a hard decision.
No, it wasn't.
You and Jackson, my homes.
Yeah.
Yeah, to be clear, we're not the brains behind the bot.
Oh God.
No, smart, smart guy.
Actually, we met on tick talk.
All the people that I've met on tick talk are people that work with me now.
You know, somewhere we've found them.
You know, crypto Wendio was one of the first people I ever met.
She's massive, done massive things.
One of the best female voices in the space.
An example, I think for women who want to get into crypto web three,
I think they should really check her content out because she's been through a lot.
Like she's the best.
The misogyny in the space, man.
Like it's pretty bad.
It's pretty bad.
Misogyny.
Dude, you think like being a girl on the internet is tough.
Imagine people who are chronically online.
Who are oftentimes like deprived of social interaction.
And who have a bunch of money harassing women.
Like it's a problem.
I'm not going to lie.
After like talking to Wendy, she's done a lot.
She's been through a lot.
So I respect her a lot.
And she came on the team.
We're very close with her.
Shout out to crypto Wendio.
And we've also got crypto weatherman who built the bot.
We had a discussion about TA.
I was like, man, TA is horseshit.
It's astrology for men.
He's like, no.
TA?
Technical analysis.
Technical analysis.
I'm like, these people are drawing lines on charts.
He's in the words I don't understand.
No, no.
He sat me down.
He's like, let me teach you TA.
So we hopped in a Zoom call.
Five minutes into the Zoom call,
I knew I was going to ask him to come work for us.
His brain is amazing.
And so is his personality.
And you put that together, you get a really kick-ass guy
who can do some cool shit.
And so he built the algorithm for this bot.
Literally scrapes news sites and social media
to see if it's bullish or bearish.
No one else is doing that.
Yeah, the bot has some really cool functionality.
And I knew the second I met Crypto Weatherman,
I was like, this is great.
I need to introduce you to my partner.
My partner's a data scientist.
This guy's level 10 genius.
Amazing.
And we put them in a room together.
And it was just like magic.
And then three months later, and a ton of dev work,
and now we have some working signals
that we can actually put out there and help people trade.
And hopefully not lose a lot of money.
I got to talk about Josh.
Our last crater is Joshua Jake,
who's out here helping us run up this media company.
He designed our studio.
One of the smartest guys I've ever met
when it comes to researching stuff.
So that's our dream team.
Hands down.
He's got two first names.
Josh, I like him.
I like him already.
I don't take a sick team.
I met him in Miami.
We went out one night.
We shared a hookah.
And I showed him that business letter
that I wrote to one of my now business partners.
And I showed him that.
And he was like, yep, I'm in.
He's like, you don't want to know how this is going to work?
He's like, nope.
He's like, I'm down.
And then a month later, he moved from San Diego to Orlando.
I remember.
And we're building out the studio.
We were in my hotel room in Miami at 4 a.m.
I was writing a diss track to somebody
that I was feuding with at the time.
He said he's in my-
Crypto diss track?
Crypto diss track.
That's on SoundCloud.
You want to look it up?
Pull it up.
Pull it up.
Oh, it might be copyrighted.
It might be copyrighted.
Pull up the SoundCloud.
I'll dispute it.
So this was at 4 a.m. in Miami.
And Josh was there hyping me up.
He was drunk as hell.
Ended up getting food poisoning.
We had to drag him into the car.
We got Cuban food in the morning.
Dude was vomiting on the side of the road
from this horrible bug.
Oh, that was so sped up.
Where'd you get it?
Oh, god.
They went to some fucking food truck.
I stayed at the hotel.
I was pooped.
In Miami?
Yeah.
This was for Bitcoin 2021.
Oh, OK.
We had a lot of spots in Miami.
That was a good time.
Miami is like the crypto capital of the world.
I was there in 2019 when they unveiled
the Bitcoin Center in Miami.
The mayor cut.
I was right next to the mayor.
I have a video of him cutting the rope.
And I knew from that point-
You were right next to it?
From me and the guy back there with the cameras.
That's how far it was.
That moment I knew Miami was going to be on the spot.
There was no going back.
Crazy.
Crazy shit.
Dude, I just saw a video the other day of this dude in Miami.
He looks like a young guy.
And he's like walking through his house.
He owns some house on the water.
And it's just full of NFTs everywhere.
Makes sense.
You know what I'm talking about?
His name's like Pierre.
He's like a French guy.
Is he on Twitter?
I think I might have seen a clip from his house on Twitter.
It was on Vice's YouTube channel.
It was a clip from Vice on Twitter someone had retweeted.
But I saw the-
Dude, Miami is like the golden crypto kingdom.
I don't know, man.
It's crazy.
My favorite artist is down there.
Who?
His name is Sergei.
He's got a lot of Bitcoin artwork.
I saw him in 2018.
First crypto conference I went to.
Nobody was there, 2018.
Same conference hall in 2021.
Were you at the one in Miami down there in 2018?
Blockchain shift?
No.
North American Bitcoin conference?
That was a different one.
Yeah, there's too many conferences.
Have you ever bought anything on Silk Road?
No, but I did meet Ross Ulbrich's mom.
Yeah, I had her on here too.
She was a very nice woman.
And I'd love to reconnect with her because we were on Skype
and I was like trying to help her out.
But I was like 17, so I didn't have shit.
But now I have a pod for him.
She just wants her son home.
Isn't it crazy the sentence that kid got?
They made an example.
Quadruple the sentence of El Chapo.
Ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous.
Or double, double El Chapo sentence, something insane.
It's just a little sad, man.
But this is what happens when you have people
who are kind of figureheads
and they want to crack down on it.
The kingpin charge for some kid that just created some eBay
for crypto, crypto eBay.
It goes back to that whole like unintended consequences
of what you're building.
And then people start using it for nefarious acts.
And you're like, but it's with everything.
It's like people like, oh, cryptocurrency,
like isn't that what people use to buy drugs?
I remember somebody told me that at a bar one time
and it was a buddy of mine.
I was like, bro, you smoke pot, right?
He's like, yeah.
It's like, what'd you pay your dealer in?
It's like cash.
The cash is used for nefarious things,
like any medium of exchange.
So it's ridiculous.
The same thing happened with who Burner is.
Yes, yeah, he's the guy.
Like the drug dealer to the...
Burner.
He's guy?
The cookies guy.
Cookies, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So luckily he was rich enough at the time
and probably connected enough,
but he had like an absolute fiasco of a launch
of some social network that he launched.
And it was like the social network without censorship.
And the whole thing like immediately blew up
and he was probably facing the same sort of charges
because now he had this like free social network
with no moderation and immediately was like drugs,
sex trafficking, just like the worst of the worst.
Nazi memes.
Not, yeah, all that.
And it was like he got out of it,
but like he probably would have been facing a lot of the stuff.
That's so crazy though.
I mean, that's the craziest thing that you make these people
responsible for the users of the platform.
Right.
Well, like, you know, they walked so that we could run.
They did the hard things, you know, even like Charlie Shrem.
You know, this is another example of that.
Shout out Charlie Shrem.
Yeah.
Like these are the innovators that, you know,
have paid the price for innovating, in my opinion.
What happened to Charlie Shrem?
He lives in Sarasota.
Yeah, awesome guy.
Yeah, he's a cool guy.
He was like one of the first crypto exchanges in the world.
And they ended up doing like crazy volume.
And because of like, I think it was because of the Silk Road stuff,
this was years ago.
I was before my time, I was like 12.
They got him on a money transfer, not having a money transfer license.
It was something like that.
And it was over something, something ridiculous that he,
you know, when it was brought to his attention,
he took action too.
Like there was no reason for him to get pinched like that.
It was, it was completely messed up.
And it was, it was, and then obviously like,
I mean, you, that was at a time where it was like the equivalent
of trading like tokens on, on a video game.
You know what I mean?
Like, and they're like, well,
you don't have a money transfer license, so jail.
How long did he spend in jailed, you know?
I'm not, I'm not sure.
I'm not.
It wasn't that long.
I think he got out like pretty quickly.
Okay.
But it was still like.
It made a whole documentary about it, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
It's been years since I like researched this case,
but we've had a few interactions briefly.
But he's definitely, I would, I would consider
it was absolutely a crypto OG.
Yeah.
You know, like when you talk about like crypto,
he's like Charlie Schramm, Eric Voorhees,
like a lot of those guys.
Like a Voss twins, man.
Yeah, you know, you know, Mark Zuckerberg,
man off with his bag, but they, they got theirs too, man.
Yeah.
Like these are, these are, these are.
Yeah, their story is crazy, right?
They were in like Mallorca or Ibiza or something
when they learned about Bitcoin or something.
They had just got paid their first billion dollars
and they put all of it into crypto.
Yeah.
Absolutely wild.
Imagine if it went the other way, you know.
They'd probably be serving us fries at the drive-thru.
Yeah.
But hey, man, that's like.
That's the crazy thing about it though.
I mean, like, like you don't know where it's going to go.
And you set like, it's like, you buy an NFT today
for a hundred thousand dollars.
It could be worth a hundred and fifty thousand dollars tomorrow.
And then you sell it, make 50 grand,
but then two weeks later, it's worth a fucking million dollars.
And you'd be like, God damn it.
But are you mad?
Yeah, kind of.
Still made money.
Yeah, but you're still mad.
And you just got to find the next one.
Yeah.
It comes down to conviction.
So many opportunities.
It's just like betting.
Yeah.
It's just like sports betting.
Well, everything in life is a bet.
There's a lot to that.
Somebody asked me in my comment section, you know,
do you gamble?
We have a story about that.
But, and I'm like, no.
You don't.
I'm like, no, I don't gamble.
I gamble for a living.
You just have to have the conviction
and belief in this technology and the projects that you choose.
So that's really what it is.
Like you have to.
You got to stick to it.
You can't just dip your toe in and expect to win.
I mean, you can.
I mean, you can dollar cost average into Bitcoin
and have your nice, you know, two, three X games over time.
However you want to do that, in my opinion,
no financial advice.
I always got to say that.
No, you don't.
I'd like to say it.
I'd like to say it.
I've told you this too.
Like everybody's hung up on like financial advice and like.
I don't want to sound like a dick.
Someone's like, yeah, everybody just go,
this is not financial advice and like give a whole disclaimer.
What are they worried about?
So it's one, you only have to worry about that
if you are an actual financial advisor and you're registered.
And two, if you're blanketing it on media to people,
it doesn't matter.
You could.
You can literally tell people by Bitcoin.
That's it.
Like, but if you're telling it to a blanketed audience
and it's not personalized to a single person,
it's not financial advice.
I think it's just one of those things where like they saw somebody do it
and then everyone just copy them.
Everybody does it.
They don't know why they do it.
It's my biggest pet peeve.
Well, also, it's like you don't want to be that guy.
You know, that's like this cryptocurrency is going to this price
and it's going to happen.
And I'm certain of this.
I have my insight sources.
I've just done that.
And it doesn't happen.
And you look like a jackass in front of everybody.
Is that what Richard Hart does?
No.
Okay.
But you know, this is just like some of the stuff in the crypto scene.
Like, you know, like everyone's always talking
about going to the moon and this and that.
I liked it.
Like I said before, bringing it back,
I like to do realistic outcomes and expectations
because it's not all sunshine and roses.
You know, it's not a rose garden for y'all.
It's really it's trial by far, dude.
You're going to come in here.
You're going to get your ass handed to you probably.
But it's the only way you're going to learn.
Surprise your education.
Too many people try to jump in and just want to get rich overnight.
And it's like, you know, I have buddies who like come to me and they're like,
I want to trade NFTs.
And I'm like, you should not be trading NFTs.
No.
Like start start with like small investments.
You can make it.
But if you have the money to buy one of those apes,
you can make so much money flipping them.
So the way pretty much every single ape that's for sale,
you can look at it was it was bought 20 days earlier for like 50 grand less.
Well, you don't even need that much money.
You can put NFTs for a couple hundred bucks, man.
You know, like pull up the invisible friends,
like the invisible friends right now huge.
I think it's going to be a blue chip right off the bat.
Looking today to get whitelist on open sea.
It just look up invisible friends.
NFT. It's not out yet.
Okay.
Because you can tell when these NFTs are coming
and when they're going to do well just by just by like being in the space.
You'll know the invisible friends.
I think seven to nine Ethereum floor price when they drop.
Really?
Seven to nine, seven to nine.
They're kind of cool looking.
Yeah.
Oh, that's great.
Seven to 90.
That's super dope.
Are they animated like this?
Yeah.
Are you whitelisted?
Oh, no.
So you can actually get whitelisted if you buy.
Those are sick.
You have to have four NFTs from the previous collections of this artist.
And it costs and it's like $28,000.
So I'm sitting here.
I'm looking right now and I'm like,
do I want to spend 28 grand to get whitelisted?
But like, dude, the rare ones of these?
Holy shit.
I mean, so if you get whitelisted,
you buy four of his previous NFTs.
You get one of these for free?
No, you get the opportunity to pay for one.
Opportunity.
And they're going to start at what?
Oh, I don't know what the price is for these.
I was looking at them this morning.
They're not like overly expensive.
They're dope.
If all of them are animated, like these rotating,
like these looping gifts, that would be super sick.
Oh, really?
Uh-huh.
And like, dude, it's impossible to get one.
The public sale will be over in a quarter of a second
and it's going to go to the people who pay $30,000 in gas fees.
It's like the hate fees.
$30,000 in gas fees?
It's front running each other.
Whoever's got the most money to burn wins.
Whoa.
You basically have front run competition.
These things, I want you to go back and look at them.
$7,000 to $9,000 is my thoughts.
It's like hate beasts.
Yeah.
Hate beasts drop $7,000 to $9,000 floor instantly.
Everybody knew it and everybody was trying to get in
on that whitelist and they couldn't.
What are those worth?
$7,000 to $9,000.
I think, yeah, about there.
Well, they started at $6,000.
They got to $7,000 pretty quickly.
And that was uncommon for an NFT project like that.
Usually, after reveal, the floor price is tank,
but they're still going up.
It's a good idea that their Discord, I think, had $400,000.
It was like 400,000 people in their Discord.
That's four times the size of ours for one project, right?
That's not even out, by the way.
And only 8,000 items?
So you had 400,000 people competing for 8,000 items.
And?
My friend bought a couple of those, the serums,
you know, the beaker with the...
Oh, shit.
Like four days ago, on Friday, I think it was.
He bought one of them for 16 ETH, the other one for 25 ETH.
Now, the one he bought for 16 ETH four days later
is for selling for 31 ETH.
Oh, I thought you were talking about the M3 serum.
No, no, no.
He bought two M1s and two M2s.
And they're both double what he paid for four days ago.
Yeah, it's because the mutant names...
That's crazy.
Yeah, yeah, the mutant names.
I had an opportunity to buy a mutant name for three ETH.
I was with Alex in New York City.
Same, we were together in the car.
We were in the car.
We, you and Alex, and that Jamaican guy who was like talking about God,
and Alex was just not shutting up.
We had one friend who's like, definitely a bleeding atheist,
and then our cab driver.
We're in Little Haiti, buddy.
We're in Little Haiti.
Cab driver who was like full on about Jesus.
Yeah.
And they just...
And they were having a...
They were having a podcast.
Yeah, they were tromping it up, man.
Oh, man.
And he's like, you know,
is he speeding away?
He's like, he's talking to me because I was the last one.
My buddy's never been to New York before.
I'm like, bro.
I was like, I'm not trying to get killed on the way to dinner.
Like, shut the fuck up.
Oh, it's so fucking funny.
Oh, yeah, he was like...
Dude, New York's a wild place like that.
Yeah, man, it is.
We did some fun times up there.
Give him the gift of Jesus.
It was the last time I saw him gone, you know?
Wow.
We've had some good times, man.
Like, you know, we do a lot of traveling.
We're going to Vegas soon for everything we're doing.
And then we got some FTLA.
We have Coin Desk and Consensus.
Yeah, we're partnered with Coin Desk.
Do you spend any time in the VR metaverse?
Yeah.
So, you know, I just bought an Oculus.
And so did you.
Yeah.
We both have Oculus now.
I got one right there.
Makes me sick.
Really?
Uh, my tummy hurts when I'm in there.
Do you have Beat Saber on there?
Yeah.
Oh, it's the best game.
That's the only game I can play with Xbox.
The Star Wars game is badass.
Star Wars is really good.
I almost threw up.
The fucking lightsaber is so...
It's like, it's incredible, dude.
Yeah, you feel it in your hand.
You're like fucking killing the robots and shit.
What about Creed?
Have you downloaded Creed?
No.
It's a boxing.
It's with...
Oh, no.
And you got, like, Sylvester Stallone.
In there is like...
Really?
Coach, yeah.
And you just...
That's it.
Right.
Yeah.
You gotta get that one.
Yeah, that's good.
You know, I have an interesting story about kind of the Metaverse stuff.
So this has gotten TikTok, I follow.
A lot of people spend a lot of time in, like, every single day hanging out in there.
You already, you're already online, chronically.
Like, most people.
Like, you're scrolling Twitter when you're taking a deuce, whatever.
You're doing this and that.
But, like, our lives are almost...
I spend more time online than I do in person.
And the Metaverse is a natural extension of that.
Well, we...
Fortnite, you know, Fortnite, the big concert.
We play all the time.
Marshmallow and the Travis Scott.
Fortnite is a glimpse into what will be the norm in a couple decades.
If not sooner than that.
Probably sooner.
Those emotes that you buy in the outfits are like NFTs kind of,
except everybody can buy them.
Exactly.
They're not right.
Exactly.
But, like, you know, the Fortnite concept is more than a game.
It's like this live event service.
Like, you can have these things in there and everything is...
There's some paywalls to it, but it's still pretty cool.
And I think that's kind of like what we're going into.
I'm, you know, I'm very...
It's interesting companies are looking into this.
The guy following TikTok, he has a school in the Metaverse in Sandbox.
And you can get into his school, his NFT school,
by purchasing a virtual jacket that you can wear in the Metaverse.
I forget his name.
Damn it.
But he had a Pepsi executive in his school who bought one of his jackets.
A Pepsi executive at Pepsi.
Oh, God, he's probably a fucking pedophile.
I was like, do you hear the story about the guy from PlayStation?
What?
Do you hear the story about the guy who works at PlayStation?
Holy fuck, bro.
He was on Grindr trying to get, like, a 15-year-old boy to come to his house.
Kid went to his house, freaking videotaped the whole thing.
The guy went down hard.
Find that article about the pedophile executive at PlayStation.
From PlayStation.
Dude, some of those people are fucked.
That's why I'm an Xbox guy.
Yeah, I just bought a PS5.
I've never had any, you know, PS5.
I just gave him my 360, you know?
Like, I literally, like...
All right, wait.
Why'd you give me the 360?
So you could play Guitar Hero.
Most flame game ever made.
Yeah, you should see this man shred.
Got Guitar Hero 3, 5.
That's what we do in the office when there's some downtime.
Rips a Guitar Hero.
Rips something else, you know?
You know, it's a good time.
It's a good time in there.
So what is the Sandbox?
What is that Sandbox?
Like, can you explain what Sandbox is?
There's a few metaverses.
Sandbox, think of Sandbox like Minecraft metaverse.
Right?
Like, that's the easiest way to think about it.
Minecraft metaverse.
Yeah, so like everything's blocky
and you can have like plots of land
and you can build shit in there too.
I was an early investor into Victoria VR.
Have you heard of that one?
It's a metaverse company.
They're doing some pretty cool stuff.
They just had their land sell going on.
And Victoria VR, like, that was the last big metaverse project to blow up.
That was insane.
That was some good returns on that one.
But yeah, so that was like my biggest metaverse bag.
There's also, of course, like Decentraland
and a few other places like other metaverses.
And a lot of them are sort of, we actually interviewed Netverk,
which, you know, was another metaverse company.
Before any of this happened, it was like one of our first interviews.
Netverk, yeah.
I had the opportunity to buy $30,000 of metaverse land.
And I was like, this is weird.
I don't know if I want to commit $30,000 of this.
I, you know, I should have done it because it ended up selling for like 10x.
This is the painful ones.
$300,000 for some property in the metaverse.
Yeah, something like that.
Man, you know, it's just.
Do you own any digital, any metaverse real estate now?
I do.
Really?
I bought some plot, I bought a plot of land in Nebraska,
two plots of land in Nebraska in this thing called EARTHA.
And EARTHA is like, you know, think of it like an alternate reality
where EARTHA has been through this terrible disaster.
And it's a game and you can have resources in your tiles.
I got Jack's shit because what the fuck is in Nebraska?
Like, get the fuck out of here.
I bought the premium shit and you gave me Nebraska.
How much did you pay for it?
Oh, I think I paid like a grand for the two.
Wow.
I'm not sure how much I could flip it for right now.
I should check because I also invested into the coin
and they did really well too.
That was like another big project.
But I made some money from the coin.
And I think I could sell my land for at least what I paid for it.
Maybe more.
That's insane.
This is an article about the PlayStation guy,
former Sony PlayStation exec under investigation
after appearing in a pedo sting video.
Yeah, so the kid was trying to stare at him.
Where the logo fell?
And he was there, that's a fucked up.
If you watch the video, he literally opens the door,
the front door of his house.
He's wearing that.
He's like in his boxers and a PS5 shirt.
Oh yeah, here's the video.
I mean, he turned the volume down.
He sort of looks like the type.
I'm not going to be too much of a dick.
Just fast forward through all this bullshit.
This is probably going to be like this B roll.
There you go.
There you go.
Keep going.
Oh my God.
Keep going.
Holy shit.
This isn't it.
This isn't it.
I don't know what the fuck all this is.
I thought that was a rail.
This is a bunch of bullshit.
This is not even it.
I thought they had the fucking cops,
like a Chris Hansen type shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyways.
That's that's crazy, man.
Yeah.
This is a Patrick Bateman type.
Yeah.
Well, thanks for doing this, guys.
Thanks for having us.
Yeah, it was a pleasure.
We got deep.
We went deep.
Yeah, we did.
There's a lot to cover.
Tell everyone listening and watching
where they can find your guys' websites,
your guys' social media, all that, all that jazz.
Kryptonite.io.
I don't do the website.
Check us out, kryptonite.io,
you know, on TikTok at the blockchain boy.
All of our Kryptonite creators
can be found through our website.
Come join our Discord community.
Hang out with us.
We're about to relaunch some of the stuff,
working on some educational free educational resources.
I got my my man Diego working on that.
But yeah, this was great.
I've been a fan of the podcast for a while,
like I said.
Really? Thanks, man.
Yeah, since you were working with Ben
and the original stuff.
That's how you originally found it?
Yeah, because I was like in high school.
Like most people.
Like a big, a big like real estate.
I love real estate too.
I want to get that.
A lot of people love real estate.
So a lot of people are attracted to rich people online.
Yeah.
Well, I would say it's it's not about that.
It's just about it is about that, though.
It is a lot of people.
A lot of people that are attracted to
wealthy type people who show it
and they make social media accounts.
And then it's people just you're attracted to it
because that's what you want.
You know, he was a character.
Dan Nazarian.
Oh, yeah.
He was.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Everybody wanted to be Dan B.
Yep.
Yeah.
He did it.
He did it right.
That's for sure.
Then he might drop them.
He was like, stop posting.
Yeah.
But I fall into school like 20 minutes from here.
He went to high school.
He went to yeah.
He got kicked out for bringing a gun to school.
Yeah, I could see that.
That makes total sense.
Wow.
Yeah.
He like pulled up in his car and like pulled this
AK out of his trunk and he was like showing it off to somebody.
And I guess he didn't know it was illegal.
He didn't tend on doing anything bad.
I think he was just showing it off.
Yeah.
And then he got kicked out.
Wild.
Wild.
Good times.
Well, thanks for having us, man.
This has been cool.
It's our first real podcast appearance.
Is it really?
Pop the cherry with you guys.
I'm honored.
I'm honored to pop the cherry.
No problem.
Yeah, you got to come back.
Any time.
Love to.
For sure.
Any time you guys want to talk crypto.
Hell yeah.
We can do dedicated stuff too.
Like I just this was a general overview.
I could talk for hours until your face is blue.
Fuck yeah.
We'll do it.
All right.
Well, cool.
Thanks, boys.
I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
