What's up? Today we have special guest Kyle Ruse. Hey! What is up, dude? Nothing, hang out. Hey, hey. Drinking the liquor you guys got. That was very nice of you.
You are the first comic, legit comic that we've had on this show. I don't know about legit, I do comedy, but. You're definitely legit, dude.
I listened to your whole album today on Spotify and that was fucking hilarious.
Shit on Amazon, I get more money for that one.
Oh man.
You really have it on Amazon?
Yeah, it's on all those things, man. I didn't do it, like I'm not tech smart. There's a shitty website that like you pay and it disperses them and all those.
But yeah, it's on like that, iTunes, all the major bullshit. It's not hard to find.
You're a local and you're born and raised in this area of Florida, right?
Yeah, I was born at Bayfront, I'll probably die there.
Born at Bayfront, you're probably dying there.
Like that would be poetic, that's how I see it.
Spread my ashes at St. Pete Beach.
And you've been doing tattoos, that's basically what you do now is just basically tattoos, stand up comedy and what else you do?
Drugs. I do that too.
And drugs.
Nah, I've been doing stand up for like a decade, I've been tattooing for like a decade. It's like pretty much all I do anymore.
Like it's pretty rad, like I'm glad that I don't weld anymore.
That you don't weld?
Yeah, that sucks. It's Florida, it's hot, I'm fat, it's not a good thing to do.
It's like 104 degrees, like hanging out with like your future.
I'm glad I got out of that because every day that I was at the welding shop just looking at like old drunk pieces of shit and was like, that's going to be me.
What's the face tattoo?
That's an umbrella.
Okay.
It's stupid.
Part of working in a tattoo shop is sometimes you're like, oh, this would be cool. You know what I mean?
And then it happens, you don't get a chance to think it through.
So I tattooed like four, I was working at Tyrone Mall and I tattooed like four ghetto ass white kids that we can do like teardrops on all of them.
We're like 19 years old?
Like maybe, like 18 tops, you know what I mean?
Like the chin strap beard, like wife beater, like one hand tattoo, like Peepard white kids.
Yeah, yeah.
And all these kids got like teardrops and I was like, fuck this, I'm going to get an umbrella.
And then it just happened and then now I have a face tattoo.
Hell yeah.
Is that the shield the rest of your face from all the teardrops that fall?
It depends how drunk I am when you ask me.
Like sometimes I'm like, I killed so many people I got an umbrella.
Like you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Sometimes like if I'm like talking to a chick before I was married, like I cry a lot, I'm sensitive.
Oh my God, this is the cutest thing.
You're at atomic tattoo there in Tyrone Mall?
Fuck no, I quit there years ago.
I did.
When you got the umbrella tattoo?
Yeah.
That's when I got that.
Do you remember?
You probably don't remember it.
Do you remember this tattoo by any chance though?
Hell yeah.
That's my mom.
Oh my God, that's hilarious.
We came to them all that day with my mom and her cousin.
Man, I got so much better.
And you tattooed that on my mom's shoulder.
Fuck.
She got a Steelers tattoo.
Carving them up.
Yeah.
And I remember you gave her the card.
I think it said Fat Kyle on the card.
And she fucking, I told her today, I'm like, I'm doing a podcast with the guy you tattooed,
that tattooed your Steelers tattoo.
She's like, I fucking love him.
I lost a little weight since then.
Yeah, it's so funny.
People will be like, oh, you tattooed me.
I don't even know who they are.
I mean, somebody will stop you in the garage and be like, what's up, man?
You tattooed me.
I'm like, I don't know who you are.
And then show me their tattoo.
I'm like, oh, what's up, Jim?
How's the kids?
What's up?
They click.
I will not even remember somebody.
And they'll show me some shit.
I have apologized to people that I tattooed my first year.
I was like, oh fuck.
My bad.
Oh yeah.
My mom, she's like, I told her we're coming to do the podcast.
She's like, tell them I'm ready for another one.
The fact that I did that on her, she still wants to get tattooed.
That's pretty rad.
Yeah, it's cool as hell.
She loves it too, man.
Yeah, that was a weird time, bro.
The mall was so weird.
Yeah, it is weird, right?
We were actually just like, they're randomly and the tattoo shop was there.
And my mom was like, I don't know.
I think we had Bloody Mary's early in the day and drinking.
And she's like, let's get a tattoo.
I probably did too when I was working with a dude.
Have you ever been kicked out of a Ruby Tuesday?
No, not Ruby Tuesday.
On a Tuesday?
How poetic.
How do you get kicked out of Ruby Tuesdays?
I don't even remember what I did.
Probably just being loud, drinking at like a bar, you know what I mean?
We would always go to work hungover.
The mall opened at like 10.
We would literally go in, drop our backpacks and go straight to Ruby Tuesday.
Hell yeah.
Yeah, because it was right there in the mall.
There was like two hot chicks that worked there at the time too.
Hell yeah.
So like we would go there and get bloodies.
But like, yeah, sometimes you forget you're not at a bar even though you're sitting at
a bar.
Right.
You're like just fucking yelling, like cussing and shit.
Like old people are like having brunch right now.
Get them out of here.
Get them out.
Yeah, they got the salad bar.
They're like, we can have this here.
Yeah.
You're like three drinks deep on like a Wednesday at like 11.30.
You're like, you're the problem not me.
Yeah.
That's the joy of alcohol.
We're like, you'll feel right even when you're so wrong.
Yeah.
So our stupid tattoos, your favorite tattoos, just dumb, meaningless tattoos.
I think if I was to get a tattoo, that's definitely what I would do.
Yeah, man.
Get a memorial tattoo of your dead kids.
Boring, man.
Get something cool.
Get an eagle.
Go home.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, like, yeah, if you want to get like a meaningful tattoo, yeah, cool.
Like if you want to think it out, I'm not going to do that shit for you.
That's not my job.
You know what I mean?
Like I don't care what fucking, like dude, I should be a goddamn florist right now.
Like I know every flower from the years of tattooing.
Like I've literally like, I have a face tattoo.
I look like a date rapist.
And I've literally yelled the words, that's a stargazer, Lily, not a tiger, Lily.
Like it's, I don't, like my job isn't to do, to think your shit out.
You know what I mean?
Right.
The same person that comes with some bullshit Pinterest tattoo, I treat them the same as
somebody that comes in to get something rad that I want to do.
You know what I mean?
Like it's not, it's so different.
There's so many different styles of everything too.
Like I definitely prefer doing like fun, like jokey tattoos, like, like punny shit.
You know what I mean?
Like that's what I would like to do.
Right.
But like, I really don't care what it is, as long as you have to do it in the style
I want to do.
It's like, you know, anything else.
Like if somebody paints fucking oil landscapes, you know what I mean?
You're not going to be like, hey, paint my kid, you know?
Like it's not what I do.
I paint boats motherfucker.
Like it's honestly, I really don't care anymore.
As long as people are paying, like that's all I care about.
Right.
Don't matter, right?
That's your job.
Treat everybody with respect dude.
Like it's, there's like not really any customer service in what we do, but like it's a, you
slap a fucking smile on your face, just like if you work at a wing house, you know what
I mean?
Like whatever the hell you do.
Right.
You're serving them whatever they order.
I can't wait to tattoo this arrow on you that I did six times last week, Stephanie.
You know what I mean?
This is the greatest idea ever.
Right.
My favorites and people come in there like, I want something original and they show you
a picture from Pinterest of a tattoo that's already on somebody else.
Right.
And then they look at you and they look at like through your book of shit that you don't
like any of this.
This is stupid.
Yeah.
No original shit.
There's nothing original left.
Is there?
No, I mean there is, but no one's cool enough to get that kind of stuff.
And I was trying to talk to some kid into getting good and evil vaginas in his armpits
not too long ago.
Whoa.
I was like, that'd be rad, dude.
He's so sick.
This kid's was like, he's like, I want to do like, like devils on one arm and like angels
on the other.
I was like, we should do like a really nice pussy and one armpit and like think pomegranate
with maggots for the other.
I was like, I don't like it there.
Holy shit.
He did not think that was a good idea.
He didn't get it.
No, not at all.
I think the funniest, dumbest thing I've ever done, it wasn't even my idea.
Still working on them all for some reason.
And this lady came in with like a raspy ass voice, like those like tight pants with like
the fucking bedazzled crosses on the ass.
This lady was probably like mid fifties or like a real eight up, like mid forties, right?
Definitely kind of city like, kind of city like Harley riding lady.
Yeah.
Pinellas, parks, finance, peroxide, blonde, fucking bleached hair, like, I think she was
wearing a warrant tank top.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah.
Like, she was probably like, I would like to see her 20 year old counterpart.
You know what I mean?
She went to the tour that was on the back of her shirt.
Yeah.
This lady looks like she would finger you like scary as fuck.
And she comes in and she's like, she's going to get a monster truck in my lower back.
I don't even know.
I'm like, fuck yeah.
I was like, Grave Digger.
What's up?
Let's do it.
Grave Digger, yeah.
And I tattooed a monster truck on her lower back with a banner that said mud slanging.
And I was like, I was like, you don't drive a truck.
Do you?
She goes, nah, I'm a straight freak.
And I was like, oh my God, I'm doing like an anal sex reference on this old broad right
now as if it couldn't get any better.
Her like 30 year old son hung out the whole time.
Like, you know, like kids are like very different than their parents sometimes.
Like this was like, I don't know how this like straight laced like fucking camp counselor
looking fucking dude came out of this lady.
Like this dude was literally sitting there like a canary yellow polo just like, damn it,
mom.
I was like, yeah, let's ditch the kid, let's go to Ruby Tuesday's bitch, she was ready
to probably.
Oh my God.
No, she is.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
This lady smelled like Zima.
It was like, she was the best.
Her name is Cheryl.
I still tattoo her.
That's like, yeah, she's fucking rad as fuck, dude.
Like, uh, she moved to homo sasa because that's what you do when you look like that.
Yeah.
And I was doing comedy up there.
This biker bar called high octane saloon and like, she's like friends with me on Facebook
and like, didn't even think about it.
And I was like, I'm going to be here or whatever.
Uh, I get off stage and this lady is like at the side of the stage like, you did this
tattoo and I'm like, Cheryl, what's up lady?
How are the kids?
Oh my God.
Right.
It's a weird thing, man.
Like there's people that I've met tattooing that like that are just customers and there's
people that like, I even forget that I met them at work that are just homies now is not
the industry.
A lot of people think it is.
Like it's, it's fun.
That's the shitty part is like people are like, oh, you love your job.
So it's not really work.
Like it's still fucking work.
Yeah.
I don't always love it.
Like playing in blood is not fun.
You know what I mean?
Like you don't know who the.
Right.
You guys live around here.
You know how gross these people are.
Yeah.
Like tattooed in P Park for five years, man.
Like, right.
That's rough.
Yeah.
You definitely aren't catching the Corona virus.
That's for sure.
I've literally turned down chicks and like, hey, like give it a week when that shit right
there clears up.
Come back.
You know what I mean?
Like now's not the time.
Damn.
I would have walked in that have been so gnarly that you've been like, I don't know if I
can touch you.
Dude.
Yeah.
Like stinky people.
Like that's like, that shouldn't be a thing that I should have to tell people.
Yeah.
You brush your teeth before you go to the fucking doctor, the dentist shower before you come
into the shop.
Right.
Leave in construction sites again.
You want to fix this barbwire?
Fuck you.
Go home and shower, bro.
I don't come back.
Yeah.
Every dude that's ever come in a lime green shirt, like, you know, like cut trees, shower,
then come in.
You know, like so bad, dude.
Like people like that, like people that are like visibly like hammered, like I don't
want to deal with that shit.
Like pill heads, dude.
Like I've had people come in that are like sober as a fucking bird when you get there
and they're like, I don't want to get this.
And then like, you're drawing shit up and like, they're like, oh man, like they were
like doing pills or something in the bathroom and then you're like half hour in the tattoo
and they're just zonked out.
They're falling asleep.
Not now.
It's awful, man.
So does your tattoo career kind of fuel your comedy career in a way or how did you get
started in comedy?
What made you want to start doing that?
I don't know.
I always liked stand up, dude.
Like I was watching my parents really into it.
Like I used to come over from school and like watch my dad's like Dean Martin roast tapes.
You know what I mean?
Like Don Rickles and shit.
Like I was so into that.
Like I was watching stand up like when I was like six, seven years old, dude.
Fifth grade talent show.
I roasted my teachers.
Hell yeah.
Destroyed them, dude.
Oh man.
I wish we had that video.
Dude, my mom, uh, very nice lady has literally on four cores lights been like, I'll suck
somebody's dick for that tape.
Somebody's got it.
What?
Oh man.
She's a good lady.
Did you go through some childhood trauma?
Fuck yeah.
I did, bro.
Like that's what makes the best.
Like when I meet comics leg and I'm like, I don't even care about your acting.
Like what happened to you in a kid?
They're like, nothing.
I had a great childhood.
I'm like, you're not funny.
You don't even like, if you didn't get diddled, do drugs, like if your uncle didn't fuck
you, like you're usually not funny.
Like, like that's just how it is.
Like that like comedy comes from tragedy.
Like that's really like the whole reason that I even got funny was a defense mechanism
to not be stuck in my head thinking about what happened.
Yeah.
That's what a lot of people do.
Like people are getting made fun of.
Like I got bullied so much, which is why I can like destroy people on roast now because
like it's a wet dream to make fun of people and give it back to them.
A lot of people that are funny, like the funnier the people you know are the more fucked up
they usually are.
And like, like I just, I, most people think I don't really believe that like his comedy
has changed.
You know what I mean?
But like, I feel like the funniest people like have some awful shit in their past, whether
they talk about it or not.
Like, I went through some like pretty awful shit as a kid.
Like I got molested by my sister.
That's a, yeah.
It's a, I don't know.
I have a smile on my face.
It's a weird thing to talk about.
Yeah.
It always creeps people out.
How old were you?
Dude, from the sex abuse was from like five to nine.
And like she physically abused me from like five to like 12.
Like it was so badly, imagine going to school like covered in bruises, right?
And like your teacher's like, your dad doing shit to you and you're like, no, and like
you want to tell somebody, but like you're so embarrassed to be like, yo, a chick beats
the fuck out of me.
Like it was, like it was such a weird thing.
So it was even weirder to like, there was like this constant like, oh my God, his dad
probably hits him.
I fell off my bike.
You know what I mean?
Like it was so bad.
Like my sister is bipolar, paranoid, schizophrenic, tried to smother me with a pillow when I was
an infant.
I remember that very jealous person.
So she was like in a home and shit.
They kind of had it like under control and like it wasn't like, like it wasn't like raped.
You know what I mean?
But like it was like a, it was wrong, but like when you, you don't know what's going
on then.
You know what I mean?
It was like a doctor is like made to be like a game, but she was also eight years older
than me.
So she was like 12 ish when all this started to be so I don't even know what's going on.
Right.
I didn't even know what sex was like that was the shittier part is like coming to a realization
and like you're like early like teens are like, oh fuck what happened was like that was
not right.
You know what I mean?
Did you ever ask her?
No, dude, I didn't because like I didn't like she left before I'd really realized what
was going on.
So like, so like like sexual abuse that like I didn't really know was even abuse at the
time.
I just thought this was the thing.
Right.
And then it turned violent of like don't fucking tell anybody.
You know what I mean?
Like, dude, like my parents would like have her baby send me dude like they would leave
and like the minute the door shut dude, she would beat the fuck out of me, dude.
Like she was a big girl.
Like I know like I'm a fat dude.
My sister was a big fat fuck.
That's why I hate fat chicks.
People are always like, oh, you're just you're just a fucking piece of shit and like you
just judge girls.
No, I hate fat girls because one beat me as a child.
Right.
Like that's why.
But now dude, like I used to go to bed at night and like literally like push a footlocker
in front of my door because like, like you'd like go say good night to your parents.
You know what I mean?
Like my mom, my dad and like I would walk past her room to go to my room and she'd
be like, I'm gonna slit your fucking throat in your sleep.
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
I was like every night like I still have night tears like to this day like and you do what
a lot of people do.
Like you suppress things.
You know what I mean?
At the time I was terrified, but I couldn't tell anybody because it was just like any
other abuse where like, you know, if you fucking tell anybody, I'm going to kill you.
I'm going to kill them.
You know, like they're never going to believe you.
Like it's it's hard.
Like and that was the hardest thing to have that like held over your head like that young
and like it fucking ruined every ounce of trust I ever had because it was a family member.
I couldn't trust her.
I couldn't like I feel like my parents like, you know, the whole like like screaming and
like no one's listening type feeling like I try to drop so many hints of what was going
on and like it just didn't ever register.
And like I didn't tell anybody like I held that shit in so I was like 21.
I didn't talk to anybody about it like it was it fucked up a lot of parts of my life.
Like who was the first person you told about it?
Oh, my cunts of a kid's mom that backfired.
Oh, yeah, I actually told her about it right thing and like I'm doing the right thing and
like told her and then like a year later when we split up, she like tried to use that against
me and be like, well, he got molested as a kid.
So he probably molests our kid like it was fucked up.
That's nice.
I told her my mom was the second person I told that still just like breaks my heart.
Like how did your mom react?
Not well like because it wasn't just like I got molested.
You know what I mean?
Like it was especially because you're older now.
Yeah.
This was like I'm like going to be 34.
So it's been like, you know, over a decade since like I like started talking about it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
When I told her it wasn't like a, hey, I want to tell you something.
We were arguing about something.
I don't remember what the fuck it was.
We were arguing about something.
She's like, I don't know what you hold against me or you know what I mean?
I don't know what it is.
And I'm like, you want to fucking know what's wrong with me?
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah, like this should happen.
Are you worth like and just fucking lost it?
You know what I mean?
And it was it was a really shitty thing is like you don't take into consideration how
she probably felt because it was of course it was like you might want to know and I
would have done something like, of course you would have, but it wouldn't have changed
what already happened.
Right.
It was a really, really weird thing.
I have to warn her now because like I do stand-up jokes about it now.
Like, yeah, I started doing a joke not too long ago about like the worst part about getting
molested by your sister is now every time I open you porn, it's like, brother fuck
sister.
Like, I was trying to rub one out in the worst genre of porn.
What a buzzkill.
Yeah.
Right.
I was trying to rub one out while my wife's taking a nap and then I got a childhood trauma
just to get to the section of shit that I do like.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Oh, fuck.
Now, so you still have never confronted your sister about it to this day?
Dude, she's in prison, dude.
Oh, shit.
How did she end up there?
Selling oxies, bro.
We're a very Florida family.
Okay.
That's a very Florida way to go to prison.
Yeah, dude.
She's been like in and out of jail for a while.
She would date like old like veteran dudes.
You know what I mean?
So she's not hot.
So you can only imagine like what these dudes look like.
You know what I mean?
So she got their VA prescription card.
Yeah.
And they would like sell their their pills and shit and like she got busted selling
like an undercover cop.
You know what I mean?
It was it was right when all the pill mill shit, like when they're really coming down
or like, yeah, like, it's probably 0506, you know what I mean?
That's when that shit was like at the top and like she got busted with all that shit.
They were making examples of anybody because Florida is the fucking laughing stock of the
fucking oxy epitome.
You know what I mean?
It's in the whole country.
In general.
Oh yeah.
What do we show?
Massachusetts now.
Right.
Yeah.
Full heroin.
I don't even remember Connecticut.
That place smells like heroin.
It's awful.
But yeah, like she got busted with all that shit, but apparently she had like another
thing out to where she like exposed herself and did some other shit to some other kids
that she was like babysitting that we didn't know or whatever.
And it was so weird the way the timing worked out to where like I had just like told my
mom and like came out and like finally like got it all.
You know what I mean?
I had my own plugin.
I metude before me too.
It was cool.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It was right around the time that like I had just started talking about it and like got
it out.
You know what I mean?
That she was going through all of her legal shit for that and I got like a random call
like out of nowhere and like they were like, is this Mr. Roos?
I'm like, I thought I was like, this is not cool.
Like no one ever asks for Mr. Roos.
You know what I mean?
And they were like.
She's the police.
Yeah.
I was an attorney that was trying her case and they were looking for character witnesses.
So I actually did like an anonymous depot.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Deposition.
Yeah.
I did an anonymous depot over the phone as a character witness to what a piece of shit
she was.
Wow.
So I think like that's the one thing that like helped me a lot was like.
To get it off your chest.
And like even like and she knows you're putting it out there, right?
No.
She has no idea.
Because it's anonymous.
Well, luckily she's in prison.
She's not going to.
I don't know.
We got a lot of people from prison.
Yeah.
But yeah, like I did a just to basically just like told them like, you know, like what
I knew, like how manipulative and fucking gnarly she was and shit.
And like straight up was like, no, she deserves like whatever you're going to give her.
She didn't get any charges for any sex crimes, but like it was just a she'd been R.O.R.
like a few times and like went on the lamb and like ran and shit.
But like that was like the biggest thing that like helped me was like being like, yeah,
fucking, you know, like I not only like got it out, but like, like told somebody that
like mattered.
You know what I mean?
And like and like kind of like did that.
And like that's why like I'm like, I know it's really hard and like I have a lot of
friends and like men and females that like have gone through like different like sex
abuse things or like people have been raped or whatever.
And like it's always talking to this.
All right.
Yeah.
It's always the like, you know, I don't want to go to the cops.
You know what I mean?
Nobody does.
Like I held that shit for like 20 years.
Yeah.
So what you can do is like the thing that sucks is like the way the fucking system is
like so many women like report things.
Dude imagine like women talk about like how hard it is for like women to report things.
Imagine being a fucking dude.
Like I literally have told people and they've been like, haha.
Yeah.
Right.
Like you run on a bit on me.
Yeah.
You try to have new material on me.
Right.
And like they don't realize like the fucking toll that takes on you.
Like what like childhood sexual abuse does to you?
Like it either like shuts people completely off to where like you never want anybody to
touch you ever again or it makes you like really awkward like sexually or it turns people
into fucking deviates.
You know what I mean?
Like like legit addicts.
You know what I mean?
Luckily for me, it just made me awkward.
You know what I mean?
Like I've been married two years like and I'm still like, it's okay.
You know what I mean?
Like just cool with you.
Like it's it's definitely ruined that it's ruined relationships.
Like it was funny.
Like being in like high school and like all my friends are like losing their virginity
and I was like terrified.
I was like, I don't want to do this.
Yeah.
They're like, yo, I'm going to prom with Jessica.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to fuck her in the back of a Mustang.
Oh, yeah.
Have fun guys.
You know, I don't want anything to do with that.
I know.
We just got to adjust the camera a little bit just to make sure the camera can see you
a little bit.
All right.
Cool.
Yeah.
It's a weird thing that not a lot of people go through and it's a even weirder thing that
not a lot of people talk about it, especially dudes like I feel like men are way more like
apt to hold that shit in.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Definitely.
Because you don't want to admit.
Yeah.
It's harder to talk about.
Dude, just say tomorrow night, all right?
Say they lift the bar band, right?
And you go out tomorrow night and some chick just whips your ass at a bar.
Right.
Are you going to tell anybody?
Hell no.
You're not going to tell anybody, you know?
And like, that's the weirdest part about all this is like that.
I think the part that like fucked me up the most with all of it was that like just admitting
it and being like, yeah, this is happening because you don't see it as abuse when you're
that little.
Right.
You don't understand it at that point.
I literally didn't know what sex or anything like that was.
And like having that is like the first hand experience or something.
And then like having the like realization later of like, oh, shit, this is wrong.
Damn, yes.
And then shit happens.
Yeah.
And then that happens.
And then just the suppression starts.
Yeah.
And you just put it back and put it back.
And like, I went for like a good like all through high school, like I pretty much like
didn't think about it.
It was like in the back of my head.
And then like it would start coming up and like as we got better, like, you know what
the back in shrooms, I had a fucking really bad trip like junior high school.
And that was when it was like, yep, this happened, dude.
You know what I mean?
Like, it just came back.
Dude.
Yeah.
Literally like a mile from here.
Walsingham Park, dude.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We hopped the fence or walk around Walsingham Park, dude, and I was like by the leg just
like tripping balls, dude.
And then like, like literally like came back and like flashbacks almost like freeze frames.
You know what I mean?
You started thinking about like, oh, yeah, that was weird.
You know what I mean?
Why don't I hang out in that closet so much?
And then you're like, why are my sister's titties in this memory?
You know what I mean?
And then you're like, oh, fuck.
Like, yeah, I forgot that happened.
I've been burying it for like fucking 10 years, you know, like, it was so weird because like
I definitely went through like a period in like my late teens, early 20s where like
I was totally drinking and doing drugs to suppress things.
And like, I think that's a big accomplishment to go from doing drugs to suppress things
to just doing drugs because you want to like, that's, that's a big thing.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, it's definitely better to do drugs when you feel good versus when you feel bad.
Yeah.
Like self-medicating is not cool at all.
And it sucks, man.
Like I still drink and party and stuff, but like, it's what I want to.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I like, I have my kid half the time and like, I don't drink or do anything like the days
that she's with me.
And then like, she goes home and then like go out and stuff and then, but that's just,
it's control.
Like some people, I watch people like throw their fucking lives away on Natty Light and
I don't know how they do it.
I have a drink a lot of Natty Light to throw your life away.
Dude, 18 a day, this dude does, bro.
I have a buddy that literally like crushes my uncle.
Yeah.
This might be your uncle.
I don't know.
He has an armadillo killer?
Yeah.
Oh, that sounds rad.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, my uncle Dan.
I don't want to ruin the story.
How do you kill an armadillo?
Like pitchforks him.
He has a driveway.
With his hands.
First of all, he lives in Sebastian, Florida.
So it's where the fuck is that?
That gives him.
East Coast.
Well, that's the dude we stayed with.
Yeah.
That's his first hall pass.
He has a driveway with the gutter that goes underneath the driveway so you can go in one
in and go out the other end.
And he basically chases the armadillos into one end.
Then he goes and waits for them for when they come out and he's there with a pitchfork
and stabs them.
But he doesn't even eat them or anything.
He just fucking flicks them into the, he just flings them into the fucking woods just
off the pitchfork.
He doesn't make boots or anything with them.
He just kills them.
No, he doesn't do anything with them.
Man, what a piece of shit.
But you can't eat armadillos.
They have like, what do they have?
They have so many diseases.
No, they have a lot of really bad diseases.
You can eat anything.
Yeah, you can eat anything, but you'll definitely die quick.
The next COVID is going to come from your uncle fucking drilling an armadillo.
Yeah, definitely.
Oh, God.
Yeah, man.
Florida is a fucking great place.
Yeah, I love Florida.
I do too, man.
I love it and I hate it.
I have a very, it's so weird for me being on the road for so long.
People are like, oh, you're from Florida?
I'm like, yeah, this is what we look like.
You know what I mean?
But this is the only place that you can live and be in your hometown and be like, where
are you from?
Here?
And they're like, no way.
You know what I mean?
Like, that doesn't happen in Boston when you meet some dude there, like, where are you
from?
They're like, oh, from here and you're like, get the fuck out.
You're not from here.
Yeah.
Like, this is the only place that you ever feel weird, like, in your own town.
Yeah.
Are you really from here?
Yeah.
Like, how did that happen?
You know?
Why do you think that is?
Because no one's from here, man.
We're all transplants, dude.
Like, it means different with us, but like, how many people do you know that aren't in
our generation that are from here?
Are your parents from here?
No.
From somewhere else?
From upstate New York.
Yeah, my dad's from Indiana.
My mom's from Jersey.
Her dad's from Indiana.
Yeah?
Oh, nice.
Stink lines behind this part of Indiana.
Frankfurt?
Some weird fucking town?
I don't know.
You know where that's at?
No.
This is from Gary and Duggar.
You know where Duggar is?
No.
Man.
Duggar.
You're missing out.
The only Duggar thing I know is that weird Christian family with all the fucking kids.
If they were a city, that's what it would be.
Yeah, dude, Indiana scares the shit.
Just small towns in general scare the shit out of me, dude.
I definitely like to be around a population, you know what I mean?
I get terrified, man.
Like, I'm driving to Georgia to tattoo the last two weekends and like, just Georgia cop
scare the shit out of me, dude.
I got stopped by a Georgia cop coming back from visiting my dad.
My dad was on hospice for like two years, a year and a half, in like, South Georgia.
And like, we weren't cool at all.
That's a whole nother.
You and your dad were never cool?
Fuck no, man.
Where was he?
Where was your dad during the whole abuse thing?
Oh, he was home.
You know what I mean?
My dad was one of those dudes that like, his marriage was so shitty that he worked two
jobs to not be home and then he can tell everybody that he's worked really hard for
his family.
Oh, yeah.
He's a fucking asshole, man.
He was such a shitbag.
But like, so like, you don't realize shit so later too when you like, you know, when
you grow up and like, you're like, oh, fuck, that you'd only have like a sixth grade education.
You know what I mean?
Like, that dude didn't have it either.
Like, he was the best he could be.
But at the time, you're like, fuck this guy.
You know what I mean?
Like, I want a real dad.
You know?
Like, he was a shitbag, man.
Like, he was a, he was a fucker too, man.
Like, he, he wasn't, my dad wasn't physically abusive, which was cool because I didn't have
to go through that again.
But my dad was like, severely like, like emotionally abusive.
And like, he, that dude could cut you down like, harder than anybody.
Like it was so shitty.
He would like do, like that was a diabetic and he would like sneak candy and shit, right?
And my mom would like find candy wrappers and like, you'd be like, those are mine.
Those are probably fat fucking kiles.
You know what I mean?
I'm like, I didn't fucking eat those.
Like, don't fucking lie to your mom.
You know what I mean?
You're like, I didn't eat them.
Like, they're not like, I don't even like Snickers or whatever the fuck he was eating.
He'd be like, they're yours.
Just admit it.
You lying piece of shit.
And it was like, it was like fucking psychological warfare, bro.
Like he would like pull shit like that because like, like you would literally like, like,
he would do something blaming on you and then like fucking ground you for lying to him
about it.
Like it was so fucked, dude.
Like he would pull shit like, uh, uh, I remember like the one time he asked me to like clean
my room.
He's like, yeah, you'd fucking clean your room before you get back.
I'm like, my room wasn't even that bad.
Like I'm pretty OCD about my house.
Like people come over to my place and like they just see like a dude with like face tats
and a beard and shit.
And like they get to my house like, wow, like you've got this place is put together.
But like my dad was like, uh, he told me to clean my room the one day and like I was
like 16.
I used to work at the fucking subway on ochre's behind the McDonald's.
Yeah, I worked there and I was like, I had to work.
It was like, I came over from school and like, I was like, I had to be working three.
You know what I mean?
And I like, I'll do it later.
I leave, go to work and do like my fucking closing shift in subway.
I come home, I open my bedroom door, dude, and he like trashed like Motley crew trashed
my fucking room.
You know what I mean?
He was like, have fun cleaning that up.
You know what I mean?
It was always like you're too fucking fat.
You're too fucking stupid.
You know what I mean?
Like never good enough.
Dude, never good enough.
So part was like, I would never bring like girls over.
You know what I mean?
Because my dad would be like, yeah, you want to take pictures by my car?
You know what I mean?
Like how do you 16?
Was it a D cup?
Like total piece of shit.
So like that also fed into like the fucking crazy confusion I had about like sex and fucking
like, you know, just physical relationships in my head.
Not to mention you're like coming to terms with the fact that like, you know, my dad
might fuck one of these girls in their sleep.
You know what I mean?
Like use a piece of shit.
My dad coached a softball team at a cross bayou.
And they won a championship and everybody was like, oh man, Rick Roos is the shit.
You know what I mean?
Like this guy took these girls and fuck.
And then like that summer, like after that, someone was like, yeah, that dude like was
real creepy and like touched my butt and like tried to grab a better tits.
Oh man.
Yeah.
You know how fucked up it is to like, like my dad died, like it'll be five, six years
like next week.
And like my dad died and like people will be like, oh man, really sorry about your dad.
You know, he grabbed my tits and like 99, I was like, oh, I'm so sorry to hear that.
So shitty dude.
Sorry about that.
It's so fucked up.
Like deal with that.
But like I hated the dude.
He was just everything I fucking hate.
Like used to fucking good old boy, fucking redneck, like ignorant motherfucker.
And I hated that so much.
But like looking back now, I'm like, well, at least I got like some of the dude's good
qualities.
Like I can swing a hammer.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like my brother couldn't build his way out of a fucking kiddie pool.
You know what I mean?
Nothing against him.
God bless him.
But like it took like him fucking dying to like realize like, so like my uncle was like,
you need to go spend time with him.
Like, I'm not gonna fucking see him.
You can die alone.
Like fuck him.
You know what I mean?
My uncle was like, my uncle was literally like, you're going to go up there, you're
going to see him and you're going to patch this shit up or you're going to end up just
fucking like him.
And I was like, good point.
I'll go.
You know what I mean?
And it was a shitty thing because like I don't think we had talked for like three or four
years before that.
You know what I mean?
And it's like a six hour drive up to where he was at.
He lived in Plains, Georgia.
I don't know if you know about Plains, a little Snapple fact for you.
Plains is where Jimmy Carter's from.
Wow.
Jimmy Carter.
That's where Jimmy Carter is.
Is that where the peanut farm is?
Fuck yeah it is, bro.
My dad used to work for the peanuts store for Bobby Salter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've met Jimmy and Roslyn Carter, dude.
Like Roslyn's head just doesn't stop shaking, bro.
Like I don't even know how that old comes alive, bro.
Like she is just a fucking like, I don't know who runs that puppet, but like she's still
alive.
But it's a town with one blinking light that turns red twice on Saturday, once on Sunday
for a train.
They've completely preserved it to where it exactly was the way that Jimmy Carter like
was when he ran for president and shit.
They let a dollar general in there.
That was like the only, they don't let anything come in.
Like I don't know why the fuck he wanted to move there, but he moved up there and like
would go up.
I think he loved it because he could lie to all those people and they believed all of
his bullshit.
Like tall tail, like, you know what I mean?
Like my dad caught a fish that was eight inches long over the years.
It was like, you know, I was like a nine inch, you know what I mean?
Like two years later, it was like just 12 inch, like one of those fucking people.
Yeah.
But I was going up there to visit him and shit, dude.
It was a really fucking super emotional.
I'm going to say something really racist, but it wasn't me that said it just to really
set the tone of who my dad was.
This is awful, but I'll tell you.
So I'm like fucking eight up, like driving up there, like holding back tears the whole
time, like chain smoking cigarettes.
My uncle's truck.
Like fuck, I gotta see this dude.
He's dying.
You know what I mean?
Uh, my dad never wore clothes at our house.
My dad would literally come home and like drop his clothes and walk around our house
in his underwear, like straight whitey tighties.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You'd be like put on some pants, like pay part of my bills and I'll put on some fucking
pants bag.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
What a great dad.
Uh, and I'm like emotionally torn up.
Like what am I going to say to him like, uh, when I first, when he first called me to
tell me that he was dying, I was like, yeah, bullshit, Rick, and hung up on him.
Cause I was so used to him lying all the time.
You know what I mean?
Uh, that I literally hung up on him was like, no, uh, you're just full of shit.
Fuck you.
My uncle called me back like a day later and was like, yeah, I don't feel bad.
I hung up on him too.
And like, but I actually called the hospital he was at and he's like, no, that's for real.
Like he's, he's, he's done.
And uh, what kind of cancer did he have?
He didn't have cancer, man.
Uh, he, uh, he had a bad heart, uh, and he had to got a pacemaker put in like a year
before that and total irony of what a piece of shit he was.
He got a pacemaker and they're like, everything's going to be all right.
He got a defective one, but they couldn't do the surgery to replace it.
You know what I mean?
Because his heart was too weak for the surgery.
They wouldn't do it.
So it was like, sorry, buddy.
You're going to hospice.
You know what I mean?
And it's their fault.
Yeah.
And he was like, my dad was a calm man too.
So it was almost like a calm man.
Fuck.
Yeah.
Dude, my mom's wedding ring was stolen, bro.
He had worked on RVs, dude, like literally like mobile homes around here.
Like we're in Florida.
He would work on RVs, dude, and just like heist fucking old ladies jewelry while he
was in there working and shit.
Wow.
And then he'd be like, you stole my shit.
You had all timers, you old bitch, you're accusing me like exactly like you would do
to me and flip it on everybody else.
Wow.
Uh, it's fucking crazy.
Like how he was.
So all this shit happens.
I'm driving up there with my uncle, right?
Like just emotional wreck of like, what am I going to say this year?
I haven't seen him in three years.
Uh, we pull up.
My dad's sitting on the porch of his fucking house in Georgia, wearing his underwear.
Sitting next to an oxygen tank, chain smoking cigarettes.
And there was like a tornado that went through there like a few days before that and like
fuck some shit up.
And he's got these like, uh, these like couple white kids, like high school kids that are
like out like cutting the trees and shit, like, uh, like that it fell.
And I walk up like holding back tears like, you know what I mean?
Like, and he just, he's laughing like literally like belly laughing.
My dad had a very distinct like redneck high pitch, like, like real like fucking super
Hickey laugh.
And he's dying laughing.
I'm like, what the fuck is so funny?
He's like, I got these three white boys working out here for a hundred bucks.
I'm like, what's so funny about that?
He's like, I had three black dudes out here that did it for 25 last week.
He's like, who said the South died?
I'm like, you piece of shit.
Like, I fucking hate you.
Like you are the worst person back in the car when that happened.
Like I was just like, you must like, I wanted to punch him.
But like 12 years later, I was pretty funny.
That was a good joke.
That's such an awful thing to say, but like, he was just an old ignorant piece of shit.
And I'm like, but literally like he says that and I literally look at my uncle.
He drove me six hours for this.
We're going to make a change.
We're going to get closure.
And you're going to change somebody who's hooked up to an oxygen smoking a cigarette.
You're going to change.
Nothing is changing.
Two other funny awesome dad stories.
The fucking one, the the person that handles the oxygen tank that would like switch him
out came and they're like, sir, you can't smoke by this.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
He's like, what's going to happen?
I'm going to blow it up and fucking die.
He's like, I'm on hospice.
You dumb bitch.
And he's like, there's other people around.
He's like, yeah, fuck him.
Tell him to get away from me.
He's like, I'm smoking.
Get back 12 feet.
You know what I mean?
So my dad was on hospice and he had the hottest hospice nurse.
Oh my God, dude, like Jamaican, no, bro, Georgia Peach, redhead, green eyes, like out of a
fucking romcom.
You know what I mean?
Uh, she was, I don't even know her name.
My dad used to call her Peach because that's how he was.
She was fucking hot, dude.
Like one of the most naturally beautiful women I've ever seen in my entire list.
She was really fucking pretty chick.
She was awesome.
She would come over.
My dad would be a creep.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And like I would like, I would, she came on a Tuesdays and Fridays.
To like do his meds and shit.
And Friday was bath day.
That like, you know what I mean?
Dude, love bath day.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He would like brag about it like an hour before she got there.
You know what I mean?
Like, he would be like, man, if I could still get it up, man, you know?
Thank God you can't.
Somebody just dropped $5 for you to, can you rate your dad on a scale of one to 10?
Rate him how?
Like, I mean, there's, yeah, how would you rate him?
He obviously pretty much already weighed it out.
On what a piece of shit he was in 11?
How racist he was?
Like 29.
How good of a father was he?
He got all kinds of scales.
What kind of scales do you want?
I mean, we're just throwing out scales here.
Yeah.
I mean, just like what kind of scales come to mind?
And then just like do a rapid fire rating.
How good of a dad he was?
Yeah.
How good of a father was he?
One to 10, one being the lowest, 10 being the highest.
I'll give him a four.
I'll give him a four.
I mean, like looking back, yeah, if you would have asked me this like senior year at high
school, you know what I mean?
Like I don't want to fuck about rat poison in his fucking food.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But like looking back, like dude taught me some valuable shit.
Like dude taught me like as much as he was like an awful person.
Like dude, harden me up.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, yeah, he was definitely like the like pull you in a corner.
Like don't fucking cry.
You piece of shit.
Don't ever let anyone see any emotion.
You know what I mean?
Suppressed, suppressed.
You know what I mean?
Like do you think you have the effect of that kid whose mom you tattooed where you kind
of wanted to be the opposite of him?
Fuck yeah, dude.
So that helps.
100%.
Like my mom is a saint.
My mom is a goddamn angel, dude.
She is the greatest.
My mom's worked with like autistic special needs kids for 20 years.
Like my mom is a goddamn angel.
Yeah, that takes a special person.
And yeah, if it wasn't for my mom, like I probably would have ended up like just like
a jaded piece of shit.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like I would be like every dude in P Park with a lifted truck like fucking Applebee's
waitresses right now.
You know what I mean?
I'd be at the watering trough every Friday with a Blue Lives Matter sticker.
You know what I mean?
What I mean?
What place do you go to?
You heard the whiskey?
The whiskey.
Buddy, I love the whiskey.
Me too.
I love it, man.
Oh my God.
Hey, the whiskey's the shit.
Those are real good.
I can't wait for that to open back up.
Dude, the whiskey's the first strip club my wife's ever been to.
My wife's from the town of like 5,000.
She's not conservative in a political sense.
She's just like, you know, she's kind of small town.
She's never been to a strip club.
I was doing stand-up there.
And I was like, I was like.
At the whiskey?
Yeah, yeah.
What?
Oh, it was mean.
But like, yeah, we're there.
And she's like, I don't want to go.
This isn't going to be fun.
I love that fucking place.
We go in and she's like, I thought they'd be hotter.
I'm like, yeah.
Hell no.
Yeah, like I was like, strippers aren't hot ever.
They're just good enough.
Yeah.
And we're sitting there hanging out.
She has like two drinks.
I go to the office to like talk to my buddy about like the money for the show.
And I come out and she's literally just making it rain.
She's like, this is so much fun.
Your wife?
Yeah.
She's like, her government name is Angela.
She just goes by Stardust.
She's like talking to him.
She's like, she has little people like talking to him all like best friends.
She does hair, dude.
She's like, we should do something in all your roots, like handing out cards and shit.
So funny, dude.
I love that place, man.
She's like, they're like real people.
I was like, they are real people.
If I said that, like people would be like, you fucking sexist piece of dying bag.
That's a good fucking bar.
Dude, it's fun.
Dude, it still smells.
Is that office 66 or 49?
No, that's Park Boulevard.
Park Boulevard.
Remember?
Oh, the one by the Dunkin' Donuts.
Right next door to the Dunkin' Donuts.
It used to be Treasure Chest.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The Pirate Bar.
It's changed names a lot.
Yeah, a lot.
Before that, it was a curry restaurant.
Oh, yeah.
It still smells like curry in there.
It's still fucking in there, man.
Dude, you eat curry and shit in somewhere once, bro.
Like it's there forever.
Do they still have the buffet?
God, I wish.
Oh, man.
Actually, we went there one night.
There's porn star was there.
They had all you can eat pizza there one night from like Domino's and shit.
Oh, my God.
We got really hammered.
We ate the pizza regardless.
Atlantis on 66.
I used to work in that subway right there in front of Rudy's.
We used to cater.
Oh, yeah, Rudy's.
We used to cater their lunch buffet over there.
It was so funny, like going over there.
Like, you know what I mean?
With a bunch of like, like fucking half-sand,
like all the like the sandwich platters and shit and like,
it was like day squad, you know what I mean?
People that look like the lady that got the monster truck tattoo work.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
Hey, sweetie, thank you.
Yeah.
Walking in there and you're like, man,
their pussies look exactly like these ham sandwiches.
Oh, no.
Just like an Italian.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
It was a, I was always the, I'll make the delivery.
I'll go over there.
Yeah.
You go over there, chill for a little bit.
Place just smells like Victoria love spell,
like Victoria's secret love spell in like 1998 mids as soon as you walk in there.
I was in the parking lot of Atlantis one night and some dude just walks out.
And he goes, hell yeah.
And he's like, fire's a go.
Like, what the fuck just happened?
Yeah.
That's Pinellas Park, baby.
You're in fucking Pinellas Park now.
And the dude tried to justify.
He's like, I shot it at an angle so it won't come down on us.
Thanks, genius.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You're so fucking smart.
There's a party complex right behind us.
Let a couple more off, bud.
Oh, my God.
Do I tell people stories like that?
Like, and they're like, damn, that's crazy.
I'm like, and like, it doesn't even phase me.
Cause like, I don't think people really,
people joke about like what Florida's like,
but they don't really know.
No.
Like, it really is as crazy as all the memes that they say they are.
Oh yeah.
I've been to a lot of cities and a lot of places on the road, dude.
And like, all the craziest shit I've ever seen happens all been here.
Really?
Like, and I've seen some pretty early shit.
All the fucking-
What's the craziest?
There's no, there's no clan meetings in Pinellas, are there?
Yeah, but I mean-
I'm sure they're here somewhere, man.
You know what I mean?
St. Cloud.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a fun fact.
Dude, I don't know.
Like, I've seen a lot of like gnarly shit happen,
but it's not like, it's not like, it's different crazy.
You know what I mean?
It's not like the blatant crazy.
Cause I think a lot of people just move here.
Like you guys like, remember growing up in school, man,
and like you'd be sitting in class and like,
like twice a year, just like some pale,
like white skin.
You can see their fucking veins midwestern kid.
They would just be like, oh, this is Trent, the new kid.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And you knew damn well that dad's job,
that kid's dad probably took a job at Raytheon.
Did his move here from Wisconsin,
or whatever fucking cold fat cheese curd state
they fucking came from.
You know what I mean?
Like, this kid comes in wearing the clothes
we wore four years ago.
Well, you were in bulk in your piece of shit.
Get DC, grow up asshole.
And like these kids would just fucking come in.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like that's how it was.
I remember like sixth grade, dude.
Like this kid just came in, dude.
Dude, he had a fucking bowl cut.
You know what I mean?
And that's just like him.
That's how it was.
Yeah, they're like, this is a new kid.
They just gave her a bedside bed, dude.
And we're like, yo, bro, some sunscreen
that kid's gonna burn so fast.
Where's his mom's Steelers tattoo?
I love it.
My favorite is like early, mid-20s,
even now, like every once in a while,
like you'll be out like downtown hanging out.
You know what I mean?
Like somebody will come into the bar
and like you're like, I just moved here.
You know what I mean?
He just took a job.
You know what I mean?
I figured he'd come to Florida.
Like three months later,
their parents are picking him up
at U-Haul because they have a fucking oxy hatch.
Yeah, they're working to the strip club
and it's not season shit.
I've literally seen that happen.
I tattooed a girl when I worked in P-Park.
This girl came in like well put together.
Nice girl.
Like just a normal looking like regular mid-western chick, dude.
Like that chick now has a blacked out arm,
a face tat and like a scar on her face.
And she works at the strip club.
Shaved her head, dude.
That chick lost 100 pounds
and does more cocaine than anybody.
Oh yeah.
It's like that girl's parents have literally had to drive down here
from whatever fucking state she came from
to like bail her out of rehab like twice, dude.
This chick, like you can always tell
like they come down here and they're like,
they have like a decent car.
Like, you know, they're like the civic,
their parents got them for like their graduation present.
Yeah.
And then like the dense just start happening
from like fucking banging into shit on bomb have.
Like people like, I feel like Florida's got to be great.
Like you got to have like a certain grit to be a Floridian
because you'll just get like,
it's a fucking tourist state.
You know what I mean?
Like, I don't even notice this.
If you go to like Connecticut,
they don't pour drinks like they pour them here.
Like they're shitty.
I went to England, dude,
and they jiggered out my fucking drink
and I was like, what the fuck is that?
Like we only do one ounce.
I'm like, fuck this whole country in the ass.
I lived in Connecticut for a couple of years.
We went and I first live in there.
I went to the liquor store on Sunday
and they're fucking closed.
They don't even sell beer, liquor, nothing on Sundays.
Yeah, that sucks.
It's like New Hampshire, dude.
It's government liquor stores.
Yeah, it's crazy.
You got to go to the government.
Oh dude, yeah, the government.
You got to go to like the, it's like a beer store.
Dude, I don't even know what that is.
You can't buy it at the gas station.
Yeah, you can only get...
It's a beer store.
That only sells beer.
Beer, liquor, Lotto.
You can get cigarettes at gas stations,
but beer, liquor, Lotto.
The state controls it all.
They're literally like state run liquor stores.
You know what I mean?
It's like state of New Hampshire.
So you can't buy gas for your car
and beer at the same place?
No.
No, you cannot.
I don't want to live there.
No, no, no.
But it's like you go to the cage.
Oh yeah.
And they got all the beer.
Like how much do you pay for this?
Probably like 17, 18 bucks?
I think so.
Maybe 20?
Yeah.
In New Hampshire, that's like 13, 14 bucks.
Oh.
Because there's no tax on any of that shit.
They cut all the duty off of it.
They take the sales from it, from these liquor stores.
They just call them beer distributors.
Oh, I got you.
It's cheap as fuck dude.
Like every time I drive up to Maine,
we always stop in New Hampshire and like stock up on booze and shit.
Yeah.
Like I'll spend like a hundred bucks
and I have like a crate of booze.
Like what are you doing?
Going to Maine?
Going to Maine for the weekend?
You know what I mean?
Hell yeah.
So how many buttholes have you tattooed?
Two.
That's a good question.
Two, actually.
Same day.
Same day.
Same day.
How did that end up happening?
Two random people the same day?
Oh god.
Or they know each other.
It started out as random people.
Okay.
This is a fucking favorite one.
Yeah, yeah.
So I did a bunch of shit and like,
I'm on the Johnny B show a lot on one of two five.
Oh yeah.
Like Johnny's a comic.
Hell yeah.
Really good friends and shit.
At night on one of two five.
Yeah.
Johnny's my dude.
And what's her name?
Shit.
The check on Calta.
Carmen.
Carmen.
Carmen has a butthole tattoo.
Oh yeah.
Something happened where some like bet bullshit happened
and like some dude that's like a fan of the show,
like they were like, if you can get to like somebody to get
their butthole tattooed on air,
like we'll forgive you for whatever bullshit they did.
So Spanish hit me up and was like,
yo, do you want to use butthole tats?
I was like, hell yeah.
Obviously.
I mean clearly.
It was literally the morning before I evacuated for Irma.
When this happened, right?
So I was like, yeah, I'll do it.
So like they're like, you got to be here by like eight and set
up and shit.
So I get there like 730 and like settle my stuff up.
These girls are late because they're waiting at 711
around the corner for eight o'clock to where you can start
buying booze.
Yeah.
Yeah.
These girls literally buy like like canned like shitty box
wine at eight o'clock and like just hammer them down.
So you have to if you're in a butthole tattoo.
Yeah.
You got to loosen up a little bit.
You got to loosen up.
If I didn't bring razors,
these wouldn't have went down that day.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like a little sea urchin, dude.
It was so bad.
Did they shower before they showed up?
Or was there like some dingleberries you had to navigate through?
There's an old tad tour trick, dude, when you think people are
going to smell, dude, like if you go in my station right now,
there's some Vicks vapor up in my station.
If you think people are going to smell something under the nose,
just a little dot, dude.
Is that what they do when they encounter dead bodies?
Yes.
So I'll say the same thing.
So yeah.
I usually really do that when they encounter dead.
Yeah.
That's like an actual mortician.
That's like a CSI thing.
Really?
Yeah.
I just do it because people in fucking penelope's park smell,
but I'm like, yo, I got to tattoo this girl's fucking asshole.
This is a lot for Penelope's park.
Yeah.
So it's like whether you're tattooing a butthole encountering dead bodies
or just taking a casual drive through penelope's car.
Vicks.
A little Vicks vapor underneath the nose.
Yo, Kyle, do me a favor real quick.
I know I'm being super annoying,
but scoot to your right just a little bit.
Oh wait, that's right.
Yeah.
Because this is the camera filming you.
All right.
Hi, camera.
Yeah.
See, I'm at the radio station.
I set up and wait for these drunk girls to get there.
They get there and like they're hammered
and they're wearing like masks and shit to like, you know, hide who they are.
Yeah.
What kind of mask?
I think the one girl was wearing like an Iron Man mask.
Hell yeah.
The one girl was wearing like an Iron Man mask
and I don't remember the other ones wearing it, right?
And they weren't like ugly.
You know what I mean?
Like they weren't like gross or anything.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And just want some buttholes tattoo.
Like, you know, straight.
So I haven't seen these girls faces yet, right?
And they literally just come in like, hey, like, you know,
yeah, just smelling like my aunt on fucking New Year's.
I didn't want and literally was like hop up, like face down,
ass up.
You know what I mean?
Like just arch back, put it up.
Damn.
It's a little heart right next to their asshole.
I like do the tattoos, whatever.
And then after everything's done, like I'm in the hallway
explaining to them like how to take care of it.
Sounds like very how old were these chicks?
Go if you were to estimate.
20s, 20s, mid 20s, mid 20s.
You know what I mean?
Healthy buttholes.
One, like in used car terms.
How do you rate these buttholes on a scale of one to 10?
One was a mileage.
One being the lowest, 10 being the highest.
I can't even one to 10.
The car analogy is better.
Like in used car terms.
Okay.
One of them was like a certified used.
You know what I mean?
Did you say show me the car facts?
No veins.
You can't even like just look at it.
You know what I mean?
Like buttholes are like when you cut a tree trunk up.
There's literally a ring for every time that like,
you know what I mean?
Something's been in there.
You fucking hemorrhoid.
Wedged it out on a Friday, right?
One of them was like certified used.
You know what I mean?
Probably like 20, 30,000 miles clean interior.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
The other one, like this was like a buy here,
pay here off $19, $60 away.
Bad credit, good credit, no credit.
Credit has been slow accepted.
If you got a post, you got a car.
Put it this way.
One of them, Uber would accept as a vehicle.
The other one, they'd be like,
you need a newer fucking car.
Yeah.
We're going to finance your own car.
Yeah.
One of them could be Uber.
The other one was like cash Ubering on like fucking Facebook.
But yeah, I do these tattoos.
I'm in the hallway like talking to them.
Like they have their masks off now.
And I was giving them like,
like I'm still being super professional.
Like I was being very like,
I was like, you know,
you need to like keep it super clean.
Like every time you go to the bathroom,
if you numbered to it,
you know what I mean?
Like preferably like shower right afterwards.
And then I was like,
I want you to make sure that you're keeping like,
like a thin layer of ointment over it.
Just to keep any bacteria from settling into that.
Yada, yada, yada.
Well, this is going on.
My now wife,
this girl in front of the time,
who is there,
comes walking up and one of the two girls,
just shoots her,
just this look.
You know what I mean?
Like,
shoot your girl that look.
Yeah.
Like I'm pretty keen dude.
Like I pick up on shit like that.
And I was like,
that wasn't like a look
that you give somebody you don't know.
I'm like,
they fucking know each other somehow.
Oh no.
Like,
you know what I mean?
I'm like,
maybe they,
cause that shit with some braiding in and like my,
my wife now used to live down that way.
Yeah.
And I was like,
man,
I wonder if like they maybe like dated the same dude
or like what's going on.
What the fuck was that about?
So the two girls leave,
my wife just starts dying laughing.
I'm like,
I taught that bitch in hair school.
She's like,
I haven't seen her in two years.
Cause the last time I saw her,
she quit was crying.
Cause she was like,
I had the job out of school
cause I didn't need to get my life together.
Like the next time I see her,
you're tattooing her asshole on the radio.
She got her life together.
She's like,
what a dumb bitch.
She's like,
oh, so great.
Oh,
damn.
She really got it together.
Yeah.
And then the weirdest thing,
we just went to Tripp's diner
and just had breakfast.
Like nothing happened.
Oh yeah.
Tripp's is good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a big deal.
Just tattooed two buttholes.
Not even thinking of the fact
that I just tattooed the most
ham sandwich looking pussy like ever, dude.
Oh God.
Dude, like if Guy Fieri had a vagina,
that's what this chick's for.
So what did you tattoo?
You tattooed a heart and what?
Dude, it's still a heart
and an extra butthole here.
Both of them?
Yeah, it was passing around.
Oh my.
You still got it?
Yeah.
Damn, look at that phone.
That thing is tiny.
What's that?
The iPhone one?
It's a five.
Don't be a dancer.
Oh my God.
That's a pinnacle of iPhone design
right there.
They were still small like that, honestly.
That's like Luke's old iPod.
Dude, I would still have a Brit Nokia with Snake
if I could have it, dude.
I fucking hate phones.
I hate all that shit.
He just bought one of those, didn't you?
Yeah, you can still get him.
Damn, passing around for the class.
Oh my God.
Oh, fuck.
Yeah, that's a...
Okay.
I took a picture of the better of the two.
But it's not like on the balloon knot.
It's right outside the balloon knot.
Yeah, it's right there.
Yeah, it's right outside the chili ring.
It's right there.
That is the closest you can possibly get.
Oh yeah, that's right on the tail end right there.
How much does that gotta hurt?
Jimmy Hart has that tattoo.
He does.
I don't even know.
I had a hemorrhoid once, bro, and that was awful.
I can't even imagine.
Like, how did they sit through it?
They did it all right?
One of them took it like a champ and didn't even move.
The other one was like, fuck you.
Somebody just asked how much they have to donate
for Danny to get a butthole tattoo.
Oh, fuck.
That's not really up to me.
It's not fucking up with Danny, bro.
That's up to Danny.
Do you want to see the butthole tattoo?
Very nice.
Pass it over.
Oh, someone's calling you.
Oh, who's that?
We can take it live.
Josh Ackerman?
Oh, I can't answer this one right now.
We can take it live.
I don't want to talk to Josh.
I'll call him later.
He can get in the live chat if he wants to talk to you.
What's the most fucked up thing anyone's ever asked you to tattoo on them?
Oh, God.
Was it the butthole?
No, that was not as weird as the butthole.
That was just location.
That was just location.
That was just a heart.
You know what I mean?
Did Carmen get one?
Yeah, I'm not the one who did it, though.
You didn't do it.
No, I didn't do hers.
What did she get?
I think she has a heart, too.
She does?
I'm not sure.
I haven't seen her butthole.
Oh, my God.
This phone just died.
She's kind of hot.
You guys zoomed in on it.
You piece of shit.
Luke did.
Somebody was like, yeah.
I got bad eyes.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, I don't.
The most fucked up thing I've ever done.
I've turned down some people from like, like racist shit.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like what kind of racist shit?
Like SS bolts and shit like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Can you do a swastika, though?
Or no.
All right.
That's an exaggerated story because comedy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was just, that wasn't necessarily a swastika.
But I did do something not realizing.
I did the whole, I did a totankoff on somebody, not knowing what it was.
The fucking skull, the SS like fucking skull and crossbones.
Oh, man.
I didn't know what it was.
I was like tight skull and crossbones.
Like I have no idea.
I did a Nazi title on somebody.
But yeah, that's where that joke came from was that.
I'm like, I've had people ask me to do like a, like SS bolts and shit like that.
I did a blood stat and a Crips tat in the same day.
Really?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Did they come in together?
No.
The funny thing is like, it would have been hilarious if they would have been in there
at the same time.
This is like super like, like, like, like super like, like hood ass, like, like Puerto Rican
kid came in and I did like, I think it's a three point crown for Crips.
I forget.
But like, with all the blue behind it and shit on his hand, dude was totally talking
about like Crips shit the whole time.
He had Crip tattooed on his knuckles.
Did that and was like, oh, it's hilarious.
That isn't a Crip tat.
Literally an hour later, I got a walk in from the kid that was like, yo, I want boogie down
blood tattooed on my arm.
I was like, buddy, you should have been here an hour ago.
I got a guy for you.
Yeah.
You guys could have fought in the lobby.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I mean, like, not personally the most fucked up thing I've ever seen somebody walk in and
be like, I want this.
My buddy, Mark Richards did it.
And it was like very effeminate black dude used to come into the mall, right?
And the dude was a male prostitute, right?
Like, he was like, like a cross-dressing like trick turning.
And it was so funny because this dude would come in and like basketball shorts and a wife
looking like the most like normal like St. Pete black dude ever, but he would still have
glitter in his fucking fake eyelashes on him.
Shit dude came into the shop looks right at us.
And he goes, I want to dick with wings tattooed on my foot.
Coming dollar signs.
My buddy's like, yo, I got you.
I got you.
And he literally did like a dick in balls like with wings coming dollar signs.
And he's like, yo, can I ask you why you're getting these?
Because I suck the best dick in St. Pete and like pulls out like a water money.
He's like, that's how fucking good I am.
And like, Mark was like, oh, that's really cool.
He's like, and then he was like chastise and I'm telling him like, he's like, your wife's
probably trash.
She can't suck dick as good as I do.
And I'm dying the whole time watching this happen.
This is a Tyrone mall.
Fuck yeah, bro.
That place was like, dude, the first two years that mall shop dude, like we treated
that place like just like a regular tattoo shop.
Yeah.
It wasn't like a mall tattoo shop.
No, dude.
It was just some like dudes and they're like working like right across the hall from the
gap.
No, it was across from like the band store.
No.
Or like Pat's son over there.
We were next door to Brookstone across from GNC.
And I think Lens Crafters was there.
Yeah.
We got so much shit.
Like when we were there, like fucking smoking weed in the fucking parking lot.
Like one of the dudes almost bought a security guard like second week.
We were there.
There was.
This is awful.
Like the first year that we were there, like we were all like, like in our mid 20s.
Every dude that worked there was like single.
We were all pieces of shit.
And like there's a bunch of like chicks that work in the mall.
And then we really like, yo, who can get closest to 18.
That was like the fucking like summer thing to pick up the.
Yeah.
A dude who will remain nameless.
Fuck the pretzel chick at midnight.
No.
It worked out because the pretzels just started.
Those pretzels are fire.
Dude was like, yo, this chick turns 18 on August 29th.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
And so it was like August 28th at midnight, dude.
He like threw it in.
Like, yeah.
I mean, like looking back now, you're like, you know, this is a really awful thing.
Maybe I am like my father.
But like they're like, man, it's legendary dude.
Like dude had that shit.
Dude was waiting on this chicks 18th birthday.
That's respectable.
Yeah, dude.
I mean, yeah.
I mean, you really could have went scumbag and went for it, you know?
Yeah.
He should have probably gave it up anyway.
He camped out on midnight like fucking old white women do on Black Friday.
You know what I mean?
Like, I just imagined the dude just like sitting outside in tent like 1150.
Yeah.
He's waiting for it.
Yeah.
Waiting for the stampede.
My man.
Yeah, dude.
Like nobody's proud of shit they used to do.
Like, no, no.
I am not proud of a single thing I did between the age of 19 and 24.
I am really proud of that video that you ran through the rap video.
That's still one of the greatest things I've ever had.
I mean, that's all the time.
Yes.
Legendary dude.
Yes.
Did you ever see him?
I turned that into a Zima commercial.
Yeah.
I completely re-edited it into a Zima commercial.
I still have it somewhere.
If only Zima still existed.
We should post that.
A better job.
I was living with Gary when that happened.
Everybody knows exactly where they were when they saw that video.
Did you do Gary's tattoo?
That was like my own 9-11.
That was pretty much 9-11 where I remember right where you're at.
Yeah.
Me and my buddy Mark did Gary's chest.
That big goat.
Yeah, that was his first tattoo.
Yeah, yeah.
He worked at Beast Pizza with me.
I remember back then.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, that was his first tattoo dude.
Yeah.
What is the tattoo?
It's a huge goat.
It's a fucking goat.
Dude, it's from like a decapitated goat head.
Actually, the funny thing about decapitated goat heads in me and Gary's relationship
is I got him one for Christmas a few years ago.
Oh, really?
Yeah, dude.
I used to work with this Filipino dude, Ariel, and he's like,
well, you want to come over for a goat roast?
I was like, well, yeah, I've never had a goat before.
I want to go party with some Filipinos.
And he's like, get here at like 11.
I'm like, in the morning?
He's like, yeah, come over.
We're going to hang out all day.
I get there and there's just a live goat.
I'm like, ah, shit.
There it is.
Hang on.
I got to call somebody.
Gary, get over here now.
No, Gary didn't even go.
Oh.
So yeah, we're just like hanging out.
Killed a goat in the backyard.
That was real.
Wow.
How'd they kill it?
I'd rather not say it was brutal.
It was bad.
But yeah, we can kill this thing and like gut it and all that shit.
And I felt real shitty about it till about six o'clock.
And I had my first plate and I was like, that thing deserves
delicious.
Delicious.
Like fuck that little thing.
But yeah, so it's bad luck to have the goat head, right?
And like they just hacked it off.
I'm like, yo, let me put that back.
I got a guy that'll love it.
Yeah.
I go home drunk and just throw it in the freezer.
Gary comes home like, bro, I got you present.
No, it's fucking decapitated.
Go ahead with the horns and everything.
He's like, oh my God, this is awesome.
He's like, thank you so much.
He's always wanted this.
It was like the most metal dude ever.
It's still buried in his backyard.
Like you put it in like a five gallon bucket and like drill
holes in it to like bury it.
So like shit would like eat off all the meat for the skull.
We still haven't dug it up yet.
We were supposed to do that like three winter solstice to go.
You gotta put it in an amp pile though, I thought.
No, no, it's, uh, it's, it's in there, dude.
I mean, it's Florida.
There's ants everywhere.
Yeah.
It's been like years.
Like that probably clean now.
But yeah, like he, uh, metal Gary's like, do we got to do
on winter solstice?
I'm going to fire.
We're going to listen to black metal.
I'm like, dude, I'll be there.
I'll only may him.
Yeah.
Bro like, yeah, let's do it, dude.
And something always happens and it's still buried in his
backyard.
We still haven't fucking dug that thing up yet.
Oh my God.
It was the best Christmas present I ever gave anybody.
It was fucking rad.
So how old were you when you actually started writing shit?
Like stand up, like writing?
Well, I mean, how did it work?
How did it, how did that, how did that happen?
Did you just start writing stand up?
Did you just one day decide I want to write jokes?
I want to write comedy?
Yeah, like when's your first show in show?
Or what did you start writing?
Did you start writing about your feeling like about?
No, dude, like when I first started stand up, dude, it was like,
it was like dick and fart jokes, dude.
Super clean too.
It was not like, it was all like hokey one-liner shit.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
For like the first couple of years, it's all it was, dude.
I started on 17 and I had like one joke there.
I don't even remember what it was.
Like, and I was like, I want to do this because I had no idea
like what stand up was.
I thought people just went up and were just funny.
Right.
Like I didn't realize like the mechanics of it or like writing
and like, you know, not like it is now.
Like I write maliciously, dude.
Like I have like just notes like plastered to a wall,
like a serial killer, you know what I mean?
For like shit that I'm working on.
And I was like, yeah, I'm going to go do this.
And I was like calling the club on the beach.
I was like, I want to come to your open mic.
And they're like, you're not even 18.
You're not even allowed in.
I'm like, I really want to do it.
Come on.
Called and bagged and bagged.
They finally let me go.
The first joke I did on stage like actually got a laugh.
And then I just ate a bag of dicks for the next like four minutes.
And the club owner was like, okay, cool.
You really want to do this.
And he started to let me go back.
So I was like going back and like met other comics and started
like doing more and more shit and like trying harder.
And it just fucking like instantly the first time I did,
I was like, I love this.
Like this is great.
Yeah.
Were you scared?
Oh, I was nervous as fuck the first time that I went up.
Yeah.
Did you get drunk or anything for the first time?
Oh, I was 17.
So I couldn't drink then, but I think I smoked like a bunch of weed.
Hell yeah.
And like, I went up and then like did it.
And then like I did comedy from like 17 to like 21.
But when I was, when I stopped when I was 21, I was in Jersey then
because I started here and moved to Jersey.
And then comedy scene in Jersey is great.
There's a really cool club up there called stress factory that would like
cigarette by Rutgers.
So their open mic was like actually packed.
Like you could actually get in front of like a crowd.
Most open mics.
So you're just yelling at like four drunk guys in a bar.
Like it was an actual like mic that you could go and actually like
there was a crowd that listened to it.
And I was doing it.
And like when I stopped, I was doing like some like local college shows
and like starting to like make a little money at it.
You know what I mean?
Like I was still doing like kind of like cleaner, hokey shit.
You know what I mean?
Cause I didn't really like found myself.
I still didn't even know who I was at the time.
You know what I mean?
Like I was like, you know, like just this fucking kid.
You know what I mean?
Like I was going to school for paralegal studies at the time.
Really?
I have fucking, I have three quarters of a paralegal degree.
Wow.
Somewhere.
But yeah, I was doing that shit and like started tattooing and then just quit comedy.
I was like, yeah, fuck this.
Like I had to be at the shop all the times that like I had to do stand up
and like I wasn't like whatever at it then I was like, okay.
Yeah.
But like, why'd you quit?
You just weren't making enough money or what?
No, it wasn't even a money thing, dude.
Like I made money sometimes man.
Like comedy was always just more like a thing that I love doing.
But like when I started tattooing, dude, like tattooing, like you have to be there.
When you're an apprentice, like you have to be there.
Yeah.
So the shop I worked at my hours were two to two.
You know what I mean?
And it was all weekend days.
So I couldn't do stand up anymore.
So I just, I didn't really like consciously quit doing stand up, but it's kind of just
like stop going.
And the next five years, like tattooing was all I did.
And I was at the shop like doing that.
And then I met my kid's mom at a funeral.
That's the most poetic fucking.
That's that.
We got to hear that story.
No, I didn't know.
There is no story.
I didn't like spit game at her.
If you know, that's just where we met.
And that's makes sense for the next fucking 13 years of my life.
Crazy bitch.
But like, uh, yeah, I had, uh, had my kid like she was going crazy.
Like, uh, my kid was just about to be born when I first told her about what would happen
when I was a kid.
So, uh, that happened.
We split up.
She put me through the worst shit I've ever been through.
Like we all have like a crazy X story.
Motherfucker, I will top your story.
Hard.
So I was like just going through some shit and like ran into this weird dude Dave that
like I did open mic with when I was like 17.
And he was working at CVS across the street in my house.
He's like, is your name Kyle?
Like, did you just stand up?
I was like, yeah.
What's up?
I thought you looked familiar.
He's like, you still want to stand up?
And he's like, yeah.
So I was like, oh man, he's been doing stand up this whole time.
He's probably great now.
Still dog shit.
Now I was like, I've been thinking about like going to like do some mics and shit again
and like start doing it.
I was like, I've been kind of like writing again and stuff.
And I'm like, I was like, I was like 27, I think, like maybe 26 at the time.
I had to take like a five, six year break from like doing stand up.
I was like, I want to go do it again.
I miss it.
And he was like, it ain't cool.
So I went to, uh, Bowser's and Dunny and they used to have an open mic.
It was like the first mic I'd done in like six years.
And like shit just clicked.
Like the like hokey little dumb 17 year old jokes were like out the fucking window.
Like now on this like jaded, like late twenties dude that can actually drink at a bar.
You know what I mean?
Let me fucking tell you guys something about shit.
Like, and like it just came out.
You know what I mean?
And like the change in my mental health.
I have goosebumps.
Like the change in my mental health and that first month of getting back into stand up.
Like I was like ready to blow my fucking brains out.
Like, like, oh yeah, there's been some pretty shitty times.
I got a really funny suicide story, by the way.
But I was like, I was like done.
I was like, fuck this.
I'm over this like all the shit with my kid's mom.
Like I'm going through all my shit.
My dad has died.
Like just everything.
You know what I mean?
Like it.
People don't realize how it's pouring right now.
Dude.
Yeah.
Like, uh, dude, I look at people that jump off the skyway as fucking heroes, man.
I'm like, I'm afraid to drive over that bridge.
Let her alone fucking swan dive off of it.
You know what I mean?
That's pretty ballsy for sure.
Dude, that's a big move.
Yeah.
And not only are you like fucking up your day, you're fucking up everybody else's day too.
Because they shut that shit down for a couple of hours.
Dude, like, all right.
Here's my thing with the skyway, right?
You want to do it cool.
Let's not do it from 8 to 10 a.m. and 4 to 6 p.m.
Yeah.
If you're jumping.
Rush hour.
If you're jumping in rush hour, you deserve to be up there.
That's why everyone helps you.
What the fuck?
It's always about you.
Like I fucking, you know what I would love to see?
Uh, I would love to see somebody fucking jump off of that bridge and hit the pool in the
Disney cruise.
That would be.
Oh my god.
Yeah, dude.
Did it live?
Yeah.
You're going to know.
Do it.
Like you're going to fucking cash in your trips, dude.
Fucking ruin the cruise.
You know what I mean?
Like take everybody down with you.
Go out like a fucking hero.
You know what I mean?
You know what I want to see?
I want to see somebody take an Uber to the top of the skyway.
All right.
Fuck it.
Now later guys.
Let's do it tonight just to fuck with the Uber driver.
You guys got cameras and shit.
Oh my fuck.
I like the story of the guy.
I'm not sure if it was true or not, but I've always heard the story of the guy that jumped
out the skyway with his dog.
And he died in the dog lift.
Dude.
I'm not sure if that's a true story.
I used to tattoo some Coast Guard dudes that worked out of Albert Whitted.
Yeah.
And they, that's part of their job was like fishing the bodies out.
Yeah.
This dude has told me some stories.
He's like, you just, he's like, you don't think it's just people that just jump off
that fucking bridge.
He's like, it's like women in like wedding dresses, like dudes dressed to the fucking
nines.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like with like a note in like six fucking plastic bags, like.
It's so weird.
Like that commits suicide.
They have it like perfectly set up in their mind how they want to do it.
Oh buddy.
I know dude.
Like it's not just a thing you just do.
I mean, yeah, there are people that just go, yeah, fuck it and blow their brains out.
You know what I mean?
But like, yeah, like it's a, what was your experience like?
Buddy.
I had like a really well written note.
You know what I mean?
Like it was like, yeah, fuck it.
I'm done.
Like fuck all of this.
Like it was never going to get better.
Like I'm never going to get it on my own head.
I'm never going to get through this shit with my kids mom.
Like it's, it's a, it is true.
Like you just hit that like point.
Like really, I see no light at the end of the tunnel for me.
Like I have no idea where my life's going.
I can't get worse.
I'm broke.
I'm like, fuck this.
And the other thing is like, I was at the point where I was like, maybe I'm doing everyone
else a favor.
You know what I mean?
Like if I check out like, you know what I mean?
People cry for a week or two.
You know what I mean?
Like they'll have a beer on my birthday, but no one's going to really fucking care because
that's how deep I was into that.
I was like, no one is going to give a shit.
You know what I mean?
Like, and I was like, fuck it.
I'm going to do it.
And like I had this whole, I had the day planned and everything.
You know what I mean?
I was like, I'm going to do it this day.
You know what I mean?
And what day was it?
Why that day instead?
It wasn't even like a, there was no correlation to the date or anything.
It was just like, I'm going to do it this day.
You know what I mean?
You're ready for it.
Yeah.
And like the shitty part was like my friends didn't know that like, I like hung out everyone
that week.
I was hitting up people I hadn't seen years ago this week.
You know what I mean?
They had no idea.
Like in my head, I'm like, I want to see you one last time.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
They had no fucking clue that like that's what it was.
And I was like, yeah, I want to fucking see you guys.
And like they had no idea that it was like, we should go out Friday.
Right.
You're hanging out with all of them people.
Yeah.
Little they know if they cancel on plans assholes.
Right.
My mom had a friend like that man that she worked with.
And like she hung out with and like gave her all her nursing books and stuff.
And like, you know, my mom didn't think anything of it, but she gave him like all these books
and all of her stuff.
And it was like one of her really good friends.
And then like a week later, she killed herself.
Gifting is a huge part of the psychology.
Yeah.
She gave her a bunch of shit that was like meaningful shit.
Yeah.
No, I did the same shit.
I gave some shit away to people, man.
Like gifting is a big part of it.
But like, yeah, I was like, yeah, Saturday, I'm fucking checking out.
Fuck this.
You know what I mean?
It's done.
I was going to hang myself in my backyard.
What?
I was like, yeah, fuck it.
That seems like a good way to go.
I didn't want to shoot myself because I was like, no one should have to clean that up.
I just felt like that's a dick move.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I was very considerate of you.
Yeah.
Like you fucking, you know, we care about people at the end.
Kurt Cobain didn't feel like that.
No, I was like, fuck it.
Clean it up.
But yeah, I'm like, oh, you guys got ghosts in here.
We lost the lights.
Yeah.
How does it midnight?
But yeah, dude, like, I didn't want to go through the agony of fucking like overdosing
myself.
You know what I mean?
I didn't want to fucking shoot myself because I'm like, someone's going to have to scrub
that up.
You know what I mean?
I was like, yeah.
So you're going to hang yourself?
Yeah.
Because like I read up on them like apparently your neck snaps and it's like pretty painless.
So so you'd be like on a chair and you'd like kick it out.
Yeah, I did it, dude.
I was.
Did you learn how to like tie a noose and everything?
How far did you get?
No, dude, I didn't.
That's kind of like I didn't boy scout.
So I don't even know what kind of knot it was.
It was it was there.
Yeah.
And I was like, fuck it.
I'm going to do this shit.
Bravest thing I ever did was kick a chair out from under myself, went down and my feet
hit the ground.
I had like a quick little tug.
The fucking branch was so eaten out by carbondurants and termites, dude.
It was basically hollow and I'm a fat fuck and it felt no resistance.
You snap the branch like butter.
I didn't even have a mark on my neck.
I let my feet hit the ground and then I get hit in the back of the head by this branch
hollow branch just full of bugs was laying in the backyard like you can't even kill yourself.
Your dad was fucking right.
And I'm just standing out there like fuck and like there was a realization there like
oh shit like this could have went a different way.
Yeah.
I don't fucking believe in God or any bullshit like that or like fucking second chances.
That was just a bad choice and branches like but like maybe you should have been a boy
scout because he got picked a better picture.
Yeah.
It would have knocked on the tree.
Yeah.
This one doesn't sound right.
Yeah.
Got some rot in this one.
This tree was only rated for a buck fifty.
Yeah dude but it was some fucking yeah.
What were you thinking when you were laying on the ground and that thing fucking broke?
I was pissed.
Were you?
You were mad?
That was your first reaction?
I was covered in fucking ants dude.
Like who's the worst?
Like I like I the shitty part is like dude you go from like this like crying like somber
good bye cruel world like fucking ass like running around the backyard like a fucking
idiot fucking pushing ants off yourself I literally jumped into the above ground pool
that was in the fucking backyard and like jumped in the fucking pool and I'm like just
what the fuck just happened dude like you want to talk about like a fucking spectrum
of emotions you know what I mean to just like right and then now you're just standing in
above ground pool like just fucking what the fuck you don't mean now you're like oh shit
now I gotta figure out the rest of my day now I gotta go to work tomorrow just take
the day off at that point.
No I did dude like I kind of like just sat there and like thought about shit and just
like kind of went inside and like just kind of sat and was like oh fuck like this didn't
go it was planned you know what I mean like yeah it's like so what am I gonna do now you
know what I mean and like it was a it was a weird thing like just kind of sitting there
and like being like fuck man like that could have went a totally different way you know
and like uh I didn't have some fucking weird fucking spiritual moment or like God wants
me to be here you know what I mean or anything like that and like I think I was kind of like
what the fuck did you just do man like you almost fucking killed yourself because you
got treated like shit by other people like I don't like I'm not really like wronged anybody
like I don't really have enemies you know what I mean minus like my kid's mom and like
a few dudes that have fucked your own weekends there's not a lot of people that dislike me
like and I was like I I pretty much tried to punch my own ticket because of shit that
happened to me that was out of my control yeah like it wasn't my fault that I got fucking
dittled it was my fault and my dad was a piece of shit and like I was carrying this fucking
baggage dude I'm like fuck them like fuck everything that happened to you like do something
like fucking I can do like I'm like my kid was like a year old at the time and I'm like
you fucking dumb asshole like you like what are you gonna do you're gonna kill yourself
and let the fucking bar rats your fucking kid's mom fucks on the weekend raise that kid fuck
no like be a fucking better dad than your dad was like step it the fuck up and I literally
just kind of like sat like roll to fucking blunt you know what I mean I almost killed
myself with weed leftover like that was what a fucking idiot like you should I just smoke
like I still like this was still hi hi dumb ass yeah I literally like it's like roll to
fucking blunt like fucking I watched Caddy Shack and like just stay at home that night
like just didn't do shit and just like thought about it I mean like how could you go out
that night after you try to kill yourself I didn't I didn't tell anybody either dude
like that was the only cause I was like I think I was more terrified of people knowing
about that than like I was about like like fucking being diddled or fucking the most
station stuff I was like way like I was way more like uneasy about how did you end up
telling somebody about that for the first time oh dude I got wasted one night with my
buddy like fucking hanging out doing blow on a fucking hotel like doing comedy yeah let
me tell you somebody you're a funny suicide story because that's how things come out for
me yeah I mean literally a lot of cocaine told him this story next night eight o'clock
show third joke you guys wanna hear a good suicide story he tells the joke oh yeah let's
fucking take that one for a ride uh that's how like stand up and it'll be for me like
uh like like I started talking about shit like that like uh like uh talking about the
thing about like the getting fucking diddled by your sister and then every time you open
Pornhub it's like yeah fuck my brother fuck this sucks like you know what I mean buzz
here is that the worst kind of porn for you is the brother sister stuff I mean yeah cause
they're not even really related dude like fucking it's just a title it's fake to begin
with yeah like you know what I wanna see I wanna see you fuck your sister and come on
her birth certificate you don't even know what I'm talking about so prove it you fucking
23 like no what I really wanna do I gotta do a 23 I mean yeah I wanna see are you my
real brother dude and he like spunks into the thing they send it off you know what I mean
like three weeks later it comes back you know what I mean somehow Mari Povich is in there's
that you are the brother and oh my god fucking on stage like I don't even know how that shit
took off dude like I don't get it maybe it's fucked up people like me you know what I mean
maybe you don't like porn right you're you think porn is bad for people especially no
porn's awesome oh really porn's the shit dude on your on your uh stand up thing you
were talking about how bad porn is now terrible it is for I I talk shit about porn for many
reasons though my album I'm talking shit about it because you always have like women they're
like and objectivize women fuck you 300 pound fat bitches get paid tens of thousands of
dollars to get fucked like there's a there's a section for porn for every type of woman
there's 80 year old ladies that are doing porn there's fucking people that like no one
in this room would fuck on their drunkest day that are getting fucked in porn there's
money fucking like just like just every type of woman there is every dude in every one
of those videos is between six one and six three with a six pack tan same fucking haircut
like there's not like Ron Jeremy now is ugly when Ron Jeremy and his prime he was a good
looking dude like if I walked into like a porn audition they'd be like yeah thanks have a
good day you know what I mean like let me let me hear dick but yeah porn is more sexist
to men than it is women you know what I mean it is a woman's industry yes it takes like
you know you gotta have some skeletons in your closet or like you know really want to get
back at your dad but like it's a woman's industry like you can walk into a porn shoe and be
like a fucking 300 pound chick with a lopsided pussy like no teeth and they'd be like hey
we got the perfect fucking spot for you you know what I mean you're gonna get fucked in
a trailer park and it's gonna be your cousin and then be like yeah cool and then you're
gonna make $3,000 you know what I mean every dude whether they're white black whatever they
are they're all over six foot you know what I mean they all have like a huge gifted awesome
wiener you know what I mean like photographs really well there's also there's also no drop
down categories for different types of dudes right it's always it's always the only tab
we get is gay that's it there's not a there's not a bbw section for us it's not like hey
let's go watch this little piggly wiggly guy get his fuck on out of breath you know that's
not that's not how it is like and the shitty part is like like the pay gap yeah all right
I know you know like you know like statistically women get paid less than men not in porn you
know what I mean you get paid $5,000 for a shoe the dude gets 50 bucks in a Big Mac
you know what I mean because you liked it you don't mean like yeah that's always been
my problem with porn is like that you know what I mean you know my other problem with
porn is so called moms no you're just too old to do teen you dumb bitch there's not a
fucking stretch mark a fucking a tattoo for Aiden or that's of course what porn star women
would name their kids they're all fucking Aiden's or a butt hole tattoo yeah exactly they have
like like just symmetrical nice like vagina is not a single stretch mark a fucking C section
scar you know what I mean like you didn't pop out a kid you're just too old to do fucking
porn you know what I mean yeah you're not a mom like you're not like showing up in your
minivan fucking sucking a dick and giving somebody a caprice on afterwards you're not a
mother you don't have a motherly instinct that would be real mom for it you're like a caprice
on some orange slices if I'm gonna watch mom porn dude I want to see some lady reading a
Danielle steel book watching Jeopardy you know what I mean and when she flips off that robe
dude I want to see some floppy titties stretch marks you know what I mean like a rapper for a
granola bar yeah I want you to tell me some bells outlet coupons my husband's always too busy
playing call of duty to fuck me like yeah I would get into that you know it's fucking that's my
point is so unrealistic and I think we I think you just solved it yeah it was the one joke on
my on my album about porn being super unrealistic is that no one does butt stuff on a white couch
that's no unrealistic that is a great one it just it pisses me off though dude I don't even know
how that happened I just went off on a fucking rant like I was like doing to like comedy to
change so much man like when I started like especially in Jersey when I was younger like
the the comedy club the stress factory that I was going to do open mic at dude like Patrice and
fucking Bill Burr those dudes who just come down from fucking New York and just bump everybody
and do sets and you're like oh my god the fucking Bill Burr is here like it was before
Bill Burr was what Bill Burr is not like this is like early 2000s and like there's a direct
train from the city and those dudes would all come down there and just drop in and do shit and
it was fucking great but like I don't know if it's because Jersey people don't have a soul or if
just comedy was different than like you could talk about like shit like there's like safe space
comedy rooms now like they're like man I hear anything sexes racist transphobia and like you
can't even like even if you're not like punching down or being like mean about that subject they
don't even want you to bring it up you know what I mean I literally did a joke about me getting
molested at a show and I had this girl come up to me in Jersey now this is in Orlando oh fuck
that town and she can't just I can't believe you said that on stage I was like what she's like
making up that story about getting molested I was like what what and this is like two years
like a height of like the me too movement you know I mean yeah and it just boggled my mind
because I was like oh my god can you imagine if like a dude walk up to a chick and was like
yeah right yeah she called a fucking cop and she was like I can't believe that you would just go
up there and try to joke about that and I was like that shit really happened and she goes well if
it did she goes you talking about it she's like even on stage triggered for other people she's
like you shouldn't even talk about that shit like who the fuck are you to tell you what to talk
tell me what the fuck to talk about you know what I mean like I wasn't on stage like oh can
we like stop talking about you eating out your girlfriend again you know how the only reason
you're gay is because you want to get back at your dad you know what I mean because he was a
fucking right-wing Christian and the funniest thing that you fucking hipster thing she's like
the funniest thing I ever did was I ate this chick out in the shape of a cross and I was like
that's not even how you get chicks to come you're an awful girlfriend alphabet dummy
but like it's weird man like comedy's turned so weird and that's why I say like I don't work a
lot of clubs anymore because like I have club owners I have a gun personally love your shit
they're like but we don't want to get any emails you don't mean because you might say the wrong
thing which I have plenty of times you don't mean you've won too many drinks somebody yells you
in the crowd you don't mean and you're just fucking start roasting them yes it's a pretty mean
shit to people on stage before that have heckled me well that's a part of it too I mean like if
you want to include yourself in the show that's like you're in the show now you want to say
something then okay let's go my wife knows this if you ever come see me you stand up I
stand up the whole time if I ever sit down on the stool I gave up I'm done I'm not doing any
more material I mean if I sit down on the stool I am literally gonna fuck with everybody the
whole time or I'm gonna do the dirtiest worst awkward like so I got fucked as a kid you know
like trying to get canceled as soon as you sit down no I'm just trying to ruin their night for
ruining my I mean I'm gonna steal your 15 bucks and you were gonna I have like a go-to story
like when it gets like that when people are just like it's usually like the late show where you
know I mean like it's people that got like free tickets cuz comedy clubs like just paper the
rooms and shit they're like you're not funny Larry the cable guy is funny I'm like fuck Larry
yeah I'm sorry you have to listen to six minutes of things and breadcrumbs and pay
attention to get to the funny part and not just like fart pussy you know I'm sorry there's
some substance I mean you do say fart pussy a lot but I'm sorry that like you know the biggest
problem with like people that talk at comedy clubs are they can't stand to shut the fuck up
and listen to somebody else nine times out of ten the dumb drunk bitch that's fucking yelling at
you are you're on stage that is like you're not funny you know I mean the Jeff Dunham he's funny
you're not funny you're just insensitive and I'm sorry that you haven't put down your fucking
phone for five minutes and actually listen to a full bit because I'm sorry that a three minute
bit there's breadcrumbs and a premise and a setup and a punchline that gets to the funny part and
you couldn't put down your fucking phone for five seconds looking at tinder who's fucking gonna
knock your fucking cunt down later to listen to an entire joke it's not my fault that you don't
have the mental capacity to listen to a bit it's the kind of girls like I don't want to watch that
movie it's got subtitles that's the biggest fucking red flag with me if you want to watch this
like really good movie it's got subtitles I don't want to watch that those people nine time at a
ten we should just fucking cut their head off it's an old saying I can't credit being the one
that came up with this if you ever go to a chicks house to fuck her and there's no books leave
like I didn't come up with that but like I thought about that and like my ex like it's not a book
no book in that house you know what I mean she got fake tits and cheated on me my now wife she had
books you don't mean they weren't good books but she had books a book dude you don't like this day
and age the patience for somebody to sit down read a book you know what I mean like I love
of you like I like I read this thing or I did some research you watch YouTube shut the fuck up
Facebook and I saw a headline yeah you don't need books though nowadays you don't need physical
books yeah but that's even a bed even like that supports the point you don't need them but you
have them the people use them we were just talking about this now that everyone's doing interviews
on Skype on YouTube like everyone does these Skype interviews especially like on the news now
yeah every all those people are putting those big bookcases behind them oh yeah to make them to
look at all these books that I haven't read yeah how great my IQ is I have all these books on
my shelf behind me so they use them like to prop up this fall we should put one back here I have
like six me fill phone books and like we're gonna put a book show there and Dr. Seuss books
if you need some phone books or some of my car I own like six books I have all three George
Carlin books hell yeah I have an old Michael Moore book I have a dude where's my country books
when he's bought me I didn't read that one the satanic Bible Gary used to bring that to fucking
beach pizza it was necronomicon the now that's oh yeah yeah that's the one he used to bring there
at the satanic Bible and then I have this like weird social I don't know what the fuck wrote his
weird book about you read the satanic the satanic Bible yeah like three times what's it about how
great your life could be I thought that's what that's what I heard dude it's it's basically like a
very like self yeah it's like a self-help book yeah it's the best self-help book ever written it
really is and like the seven satanic tenants are like it's like like don't fuck kids don't rape
don't steal you know what I mean like indulge in anything that makes you feel good that doesn't
fuck somebody else's shit up yeah like you want to do drugs do them until it becomes a problem
you don't mean you want to fuck fuck till it becomes a problem you don't mean women are held
at a much higher regard because they're the flower or the bees you know I mean it's a people just
get scared because they're like oh it's satanism but it's not LeVeith and Satanism LeVeith and
Satanism is what's LeVeith and Anton LeVeith that's he the guy that was written in Hollywood yeah
he is on the way found the church of Satan and I believe it was 1966 okay and yeah it's a paper
back which is even cooler you know what I mean actually the first time I read it like you know
I'm just like reading a book not thinking about it you know what I mean I was I was flying to Boston
and I'm like I'm gonna bring this book and read it on the plane and I'm not even thinking about it
because like I look like me and I'm in like the third row of coach dude and I'm like balls deep in
this book because like I was like super fucking into it you know what I mean and I'm like
finger fucking on this book you don't even have to just have like airport drinking your finger
in public when you could still do that you know good old days not realizing the whole back of it
just says the fucking satanic Bible I literally had a lady walk past me and just go away and like
fucking I just don't think about it cuz like I don't give a fuck like I need to find another flight
and they're like terrified you know what I mean like and you're like oh shit like I am doing this
in public you know which I've always talked about like this pisses my mom off my mom's my mom's
Christian how you should be she shuts the fuck up about it and it's her own thing you don't mean
it's it's her thing my mom prays question it every night before she goes to bed my mom has more
faith than anyone and my mom hasn't set foot in church since like before 911 like but like she
doesn't preach or shit my mom doesn't own a Bible she won't quote she truly believes you know what
I mean and like I have a right wing uncle who's the uncle that I'm making fun of on my CD yeah
who's one of those like cable guy he's one he's not really cable that was that was just a
crafty line you know I mean not everything is super true in county but like sometimes shit just
fits yeah but like he's one of those like war on Christmas you know what I mean like I'm saying
Christmas yeah I'm saying Merry Christmas yeah I'm not saying happy holidays where in a
massacre going the right way down aisles I have a new bit that I'm working on about him for my
my new CD that I want to record at the end of this year or whenever this thing ends you know
I mean about that uncle and how like I miss when conspiracy theories were smart like I miss when
they were like intellectual like people had spent like two years like research and JFK to put out
this thesis on like you know who did it and like bullet trajectory yeah dude like like 911 you know
what I mean when people are like well this is the heat for this like it was there was people that
actually did it and now which is like Obama's a Muslim and you're like why I'm like cuz he's
brown that's why you know like he did he did an interview in front of a yellow curtain and
where's his birth certificate yeah that yellow that's not a yellow curtain that was a Muslim
prayer rug you know what I mean uh like and my uncle was one of those dudes and uh I was like
just making fun of him about like how like like uh he will in one sentence tell you that uh Obama
is an undercover special agent Muslim right and the next breath he'll spout that Michelle Obama's
a man shit you know what I mean that's just a big old tranny you know what I mean that was the
that was the first man not the first woman you know what I mean uh and like I'm like how's that
work uncle Dan like if he's uh a Muslim and Michelle Obama's a man doesn't that make him gay
that's not cool that's not something that like I don't even know this like muslims they don't like
that yeah they would chuck you out of a bell tower for that shit yeah I'm just gonna tiptoe into the
world of Islam I'm pretty sure they have a pretty strict closed-toe shoot policy yeah it's not uh but
like it was like ripping him apart about this shit and uh it just boggles my mind that people are
like yeah well maybe he is an undercover Muslim I'm like well how can he be that like if Michelle
Obama's a man that makes him gay I've seen that dude eat bacon on tv like at a fucking pork restaurant
you know the the presidential servant barbecue in Texas they have a Cuban sandwich named after him
in Tampa which is all pork I'm adding that to this bit thank you I've seen Obama drink beer on tv
I've seen that dude fucking eat bacon and pork apparently now he's gay like uh you look at the
cherry pick in Islam that's not like you're either in or out and he got so mad when I said this to
him I was like I understand that you think it's easy to cherry pick stuff like that I was like
but that's not what Islamic people do they don't cherry pick I was like which is hard for you to
understand because you just cherry pick Christianity and he was like fuck you like oh it was so
fucking mad I was like thanks give him what's the thing about that sounds like they cherry pick
like these little bits of information or like made up information that support whatever they
think is true and they just craft these narratives that like oh see I mean you can't disprove it so
it's gotta be true dude I literally had somebody tell me how they based their life on the bible
while eating endless shrimp at Red Lobster I'm like you shouldn't be eating those like
like what do you mean I'm like you're not supposed to eat shrimp motherfucker it's in the book that
you base your shit on like yeah if you're gonna base your life on a book read the whole book you
know what I mean yeah the people running around with cliff notes dude like that's like my whole
thing with him is like yeah there's a war on Christians you don't know how hard it is all
right take that perfect if you were sitting on that 49 dollar frontier flight like I was
reading the bible people would be like I'll bless you when you walk by nobody gave you
fucking dirty looks if you walk out on the street and go I'm a christian people can be like
hell yeah you know what I mean if I tell somebody that I'm a satanist you know what I mean they're
like oh my god get away from him I have to be like no it's like self help it's humanitarianism
you know what I mean it's more atheism they're like fuck you double worshipper so fuck dude
like religion scares the shit out of me dude it really does the funniest thing is that like I
like uh people that I grew up with like when I started talking about like getting diddled and
shit they're like oh my god did it happen at st. Matthew's a church because we went to a Roman
Catholic church I'm like no shit it didn't happen a bummer dodged a bullet man like I'm glad it wasn't
some old dude man like that's that's the retrospect at it you know what I mean like yeah it's
fucked my shit up you know what I mean and like uh like uh how I can't even tell me times like uh
like like you have that like weird first kiss moment with somebody you know what I mean like
you accidentally touch a titty and like I'm apologizing for a half hour making it weird as
fuck because I don't want anybody to ever feel like violated like I did so like dude I've been like
like my wife to this day I'm like you know what I mean like oh my god I accidentally grabbed your
titty like like fucking like in the car when you stop I'm like oh I'm sorry I touched it we're
married I'm like I'm sorry it's yeah you know it's still your space you know what I mean like
I married you I didn't buy you a fucking cattle farm he wasn't in auction but it's weird I like
that shit like oddly enough dude you guys remember like love line and shit oh yeah like dude that
helped me a lot like because like I didn't have anybody to talk to you about shit so I'd like
listen to that and people would call in about they're like fucking I forgot about that like a lot of
their like sexual problems you know what I mean and like I remember specifically driving home from
work uh it's like was it like 11 o'clock at night the love line was on and I just happened to be
listening to it on 98 rock back in the day and some dude just was like yeah yeah well that's
dude and shit's weird for me now and I was like literally listened to that whole thing that's the
weirdest fucking thing to ever say that like that was like the thing that like finally put
shit in perspective for me like hmm all right yeah you're the way you are because of what happened
to you like you didn't choose this you know what I mean like uh like it the shit like childhood
trauma like wires your brain differently you know what I mean uh but like it took me years and years
and years to be like yeah if that shit wouldn't happen I would be like the most boring boring like
you know what I mean be normal yeah I would be some dude in Pinellas Park you know what I mean
that like you would just still be in Pinellas Park and be another guy I moved to North St. Pete
motherfucker yeah the people that deal with the most fucked up childhoods get dragged through the mud
the worst people yeah they end up turning that shit around everyone that I hang out with dude has
like I can't tell you how many fucking chicks I know they're like the greatest people in the
world that have like just fucking cutting scars all of their arms you know what I mean and like
we'll laugh and shit like that you know what I mean and then you like I mean in this neighborhood
you meet fucking you know Taren and fucking Daniel and Bryce that all went to fucking Seminole high
school that had a great life you know what I mean they were like the greatest richest kids in high
school and now look at them they're fucking boring like just wearing their socks pulling their dick
out through their boxers just boring fucking people some guy Harvey bullshit motherfuckers oh god I hate
all of them dude coolest thing they were having man uh I was dude it was like my like high school
bully like or like my middle school bullies kid fucking like remember our little punk rock kids
you know what I mean but like no one was it wasn't cool yet I think we were like the last group of
kids like that to where like it was a problem now it's like you know it's going through goth phase
it wasn't cool no we were like it was the thing that you had to still go find you know what I mean
like you had to like you know burn CDs and shit like you know you didn't have pandora that you
could just look up punk rock and it would play shit yeah like uh line wire yeah uh so like this
kid fucked with me like all the time uh constantly like fucking spit on me and like fucking all kinds
of shit he used to really shitty fucking dude uh it's a fucking piece of shit fucked with me all
the time I fucking mashed this kid's face with a math book on the eighth grade field trip that was
fucking awesome uh kid spit on the back of my head and I just fucking like whacked him with a
fucking math book oh he had it coming so like years later uh I am at uh this bar on tyrone
boulevard called the dog house it's the where the hamburger marries is now it used to be this place
called dog house and they used to have like the fucking bang in his wings ever and I worked at
the mall so we'd always go across the street over there and uh I was dating uh a chick then uh which
I don't know how like I've fucked out of my league for the last 10 years I don't know how it's
happened like I don't know I am not a good looking dude I am gross naked but like uh so I was with
uh this chick at the time uh and like she was a fuck she was hot dude she was like a tatted up
like fucking like just hot chick you know what I mean hell yeah and like we're hanging out and
shit dude and like everything was cool and like she comes back and she's like some fucking dude just
cornered me in the fucking hallway and like it was like all over me like trying to get my
fucking number and shit I'm like who who the fuck you know what I mean and she points him out I'm
like oh my god I was like that motherfucker I won't use his like full name but his name was Steve and
I was like that fucking dude was like my fucking high school bully you know what I mean I was like
oh my god the tables have turned yeah you know what I mean fuck yeah and this dude looked like
shit this dude was so like this dude was like Daytona bus stop lit on oxys hell yeah I was like
oh god this is gonna be great oh how the tables have turned yeah and I'm like oh let's walk over
and I'm like what's up man I was like Steve and he's like oh my god is that ruse like what's up
and like instantly starts talking shit like just like it's fucking like eighth grade all over
what's going on you know what I mean and I was like I was like uh it's like no you know what's
hanging out what's up with you he's like I just feel like I'm chilling like you know I've cut
lawns for a living now my god you really made something of yourself Steven yeah you know what I
mean yeah I was like I was like man you see that hot chick with the fucking with the dragon
tanzi one of our armies like yeah man he's I saw her the hallway man he's like I'm totally gonna
fuck her later I was like no you're not because that's my fucking girlfriend you piece of shit
I was like you just try to hit on my fucking girlfriend and got denied by fat fucking Kyle's
boyfriend for girlfriend I was like you fucking piece of shit I was like I hope you
overdose on oxys and I threw him 20 bucks it was like buy another 80 and fucking kill yourself
fuck this and I went home and had the most gratifying sex in my life ever of all time yeah
like the whole like dude it was like dude it was like it was like American psycho like arm up in
the mirror like yeah yeah so weird how like shit comes back to that but like this is one of those
crowning moments that you're like man that fucking piece of shit just like you don't like try to hit
yeah it was fucking great dude like so glad that branch was eaten out by fucking termites man
there's so much cool shit that happened after that dude like uh hell yeah like I like I have a
hard time respecting people that have never dealt with depression like like uh like people are like
depressed and you know like they don't really like depression isn't just being sad like it's not
like who are you sad for not fucking sad I don't know what's going on I don't want to get out of
bed I haven't showered in three fucking days I have feel weird I have no will to do anything
you know and it's people don't understand it because now it's become this like cool thing
like I have anxiety I'm sad yeah I have anxiety I'm like yeah do you get fucking nervous around
people that you love you know what I mean like do you like literally like like they don't get it
it's become this fucking like the self-diagnosis shit is what really ruined it you know what I mean
like like people now they're like oh I looked up on webmd like I have uh I have stage 4 cancer
like you know what I mean it's what it is I think it's an amphite actually yeah uh yeah I think
you're hungover I think that's all I need anerol Adderall Xanax and uh some colada pins
you just need another bud light you don't need any of those I need a lot of shit yeah it's uh it's
that's what's like and like that's why I respect people that are like that are fucked up that
like have shit because like they think a lot like that's the that's the problem too is like uh like
people that like go through shit like really think about shit and then you have people that
things have always been perfect their whole fucking life you know what I mean like you take
fucking within a square fucking mile of where we're at right now in this neighborhood there's
a bit perfect there is some of the most privileged people in this fucking neighborhood like
people don't know that like like I'm from Seminole right yeah yeah oh you went to Dixie let's talk
you know what's up yeah uh but yeah like you have some of the most privileged fucking people
that have never been through shit you know what I mean like I got an iphone 8 not an iphone 9
like that's the hardest thing that ever went through yeah like I always think back to like those uh
the sweet 16 show that was on fucking MTV because like I wanted an escalade you know what I mean
you got a BMW piece of shit but your dad your dad ever choke you no you shut the fuck up Stephanie
it gets to the point now where like I I want bad things to happen to those people
like that yeah maybe yeah I do like I see these like super you want them to suffer
I do I do you know when you get cheated on you know what I mean you're like I want a
fucker best friend you know what I mean yeah I want you to hurt too that's how I feel with
some of these people when I see like these fucking like that's like when I worked in the mall dude
you would see these like 18 19 year old fucking like uh uh what's the fucking Eckerd college yeah
Eckerd college or UT all those fucking spoiled dipshits yeah like you'd see them come in you
know what I mean and they just fucking listen to me mr. tat man you're gonna do what I want
I'm like yeah I hope you get date raped like tonight dude I hope like fucking eight dudes in the
foobar bathroom just run through you yeah I don't really want that to happen but like I just feel
like it would humble them and make them better people to go through a real traumatic experience
because the worst thing that's ever happened to them is getting pickle on their fucking burger
they wanted no pickle because they've never been through shit and I think that's why I respect
people yeah so much that have been through shit because people that have been through shit shut
the fuck up you know what I mean like nobody I know is bitching about like like all the shit
that's going on right now like it's so funny because there's a bunch of people that have never
been broke before they're like how am I gonna laugh you know what I mean I'm like how do I eat yeah
uh welcome to it bro I used to roll change with my mom to pay our electric bill with my fucking dad
well when my dad finally got like the last fight my mom finally left them you know what I mean like
I remember rolling change with my mom to keep our electric on and it was some of the best
times I've ever had like because like my dad wedged a lot of shit between me and my mom for
years that's the other reason I was like really hasn't talked to her about shit because like
he's that kind of person like that's how manipulative people are like you know what I mean like if
we're cool you know what I mean and then like Luke comes along you know what I mean like fucks kids
or something weird like you wedge relationships with people like talking shit about your about
that about your kid's mom dude it's psychology it's called wedging it's you they literally like
they break things in between like my kid's mom is very good at it you know what I mean it's like
the constant like yeah like uh your dad treated me like shit yeah like uh or like yeah your
fucking mom does this or that or like she's telling you you have no idea what she's really like you
know or uh like you know she thinks you're a fucking failure you know what I mean and like
you know what she really says about you yeah exactly like and that's what people do when they
wedged in between people and they they ruin it I don't know if that's the actual term for it but I
know it's uh but yeah it's uh but yeah you fucking purposely selfish fuck relationships up yeah and
it's to keep people apart not talking so that they never talk about you and discover who the
fuck you really are that's what it is you know what I mean it's so like my kid's mom does that we're
like uh she'll like pull shit and like you know she'll like tell you like what an awful person like
her dad is or like uh some other person is you know what I mean because she doesn't ever want
you to want to talk to them because if you guys talk you might actually like figure out what a piece
of shit she really is and start comparing notes you know what I mean yeah so uh it's so that's how
my dad was with my mom dude and like that was like a weird thing with like us of like working
shit out was like I didn't trust her because like you know you have 10 years ahead and be like well
this is what she really thinks of you you know what I mean and shit like that and like like pushing
that divide between the two of us so it was like really hard to like finally start like talking to her
but like when uh when they finally split and like I went through like some broke fucking times just
me and my mom and my my mom's mom my grandmother that she was awesome like dude rolling change
for fucking to pay bills like broke as fuck you know what I mean like my dad made like
all right money like I mean we were like working middle class we never like went without you know
what I mean but like when he left it was like oh shit like you know what I mean like uh we're
eating fucking like you know like we got like the two dollar stakes tonight you know what I mean
those grizzly bitches you got to beat first you know what I mean yeah like it was like weird but
like it's humbling and like that's just a noise the fuck out of me is when like people that shouldn't
bitch when they bitch about stuff like it just fucking boils my blood dude like nobody likes to
hear that shit no dude nobody does and that's why I just try not to bitch at all and like that's why
like when you meet people like I get super excited I'm like oh my god your uncle fuck you let's hang
out this dude's gonna have wild stories right like even to like with like uh like my wife like my
wife's like I mean her trauma is nowhere near mine like at all like nobody like fucking diddle
or anything but she had like an abusive dad I think she had a verbally and abusive father you know
what I mean which is probably why she's with me because I could never be with somebody who didn't
have some weird shit in their past you know what I mean because I wouldn't want to be I would just
be bored you know what I mean like yeah and that's like the best part about comedy and like that's
why I think people are so much funnier like when they go through shit because like it just breaks
that wall of giving a fuck you know yeah because that was torn down like that wall of ever carrying
or ever having a normal life was gone before my first day in a garden like it was gone you know
what I mean like that was there was never a fucking chance and there's a lot of people like like me
there's a lot of people that have shit that they haven't ever talked about you know what I mean
like uh and they might not ever no they might not have people that didn't make it either because
of that type of shit because they found a better branch yeah uh better those funerals that was the
funeral I met my kids mom at was a fucking dude you fucking hung himself uh like it's it's crazy
like uh do I ever want to be a fucking motivational speaker fuck no you know what I mean but do I want
to tell you but you kind of are yeah it's so weird dude I don't want to be a fucking preachy
there's my seminar you know I mean there's like different ways of preaching you just tell your
truth it's not like those guys it's different you know yeah like I'm gonna do like in like I could
save four lives in like the corner of a shitty bar you know what I mean yeah it's gonna fall
hoffers dude I'll save some lives tonight or you can six save six people in the bathroom at the
emerald all right got it at least show them a good time there's a youtube channel that has like a
million subscribers zebra that you're a corner man right for them yeah I'm one of the writers
them I didn't create it or anything it's um nobody dave my buddy Ali did it okay what is it like
sketch comedy videos no dude have you ever seen any videos of like uh like the dude mock making
for the Chevy commercials he's interjected into the videos oh yes yeah that's that's he my hair
okay huh he said my hair no uh no it's like the actual like Chevy commercials like the real people
not actors commercials so the green screen this character Mack is our buddy Dave into all those
like real people not actors commercials and he's just the asshole the character is like a dick from
Boston that is actually like a real person in these videos you know what I mean so we did one that was
the impossible whopper one and all the people like oh my god this tastes just like real meat he's
like that's fucking cardboard like you know what I mean like just being real about it this is slightly
better than the sandwich I get on the horse track like you know what I mean uh just talking to shit
but like we literally just green screen him into these videos but uh they're local dudes too but
they're like just about to hit a million subscribers and it's like the funnest thing writing for them
because I literally just get like a script you know what I mean it's like over the year like it's
been like a year and a half but it's fun now like writing with this character because like when you
write like you're like writing it and like his accent like this is what you'd say like this is like
dialect and shit I'm working on a thing with them that we just filmed last year called Florida
my buddy Brian Bargaineers comic that I've fucking toured with for like years doing like like dirt bar
tours like dude we would do like the shittiest cities we were on the road for like a month one time
we like left here went all the way out of cedar rapids Iowa damn and came back uh lady in cedar
rapids Iowa right after I got off stage she goes you talk too fast and I was like you listen too
slow let me get my check and get the fuck out of cedar rapids Iowa uh but me and this dude Brian
he's a lot of his comedy like mine I do a lot of stuff about like tattooing uh Brian does a lot
of stuff about working at liquor store because he's worked at a liquor store in east Hartford
Connecticut for years which at one point was the heroin capital of the world they used to live in
east Hartford this dude's got stories so me and him started like the show's called Florida you said
yeah okay uh we uh we actually we're just getting edits back of it now and uh we just filmed with
pilot but like he does a lot of shit about like uh like a lot of his like stand-up is about like
liquor store stories and shit and I do a lot of like tattoo stuff so we were like yo we should
write like a like a thing you know what I mean like where like you have a tattoo shop that's in
the same plaza is like my liquor store and I was like it has to be like a shitty like Florida haji
mart like I was like it has to be and then the idea was to take all the Florida man stories you
know what I mean yeah and write them to where they happen at the plaza and interject into our lives
so like it's just brine the fuck up me the fucking shitty tattoo artist and my buddy Ali working at
his liquor store uh my character sells drugs that my brother-in-law Dave the crooked cop from New
England steals uh and then Ali is uh he's actually middle eastern but his character is like a first
generation american born like americanized middle eastern dude that fucking hates working at a
liquor store that he inherited because he's like the fucking but he's like a like a failure to launch
you know what I mean but he like it's like a like we definitely like very hard like trailer park
boys inspired you know what I mean uh every show that you ever watched like every bro comedy you've
ever watched like we pulled like little shits from it but so wait you're doing you're filming a pilot
we already did you filmed the pull pilot already yeah so aren't you gonna post on his youtube channel
fuck no dude we're trying to sell that shit what yeah I'll show you guys I'm not putting that shit
out there yeah we want to see that fuck no who do you want to sell it to what's up anybody that
will pay for it dude a lot of money I don't even want to no dude I don't even want to make money I
want to I want the opportunity to make six episodes of this that's all I want but you can make money
on youtube yeah you can but like not up front where people are just like here's money to go make
this that's what we like we want okay I mean I already make money like tattooing and fucking
slang and dick jokes like yeah that's fine this isn't like about something else yeah like I we don't
want to have to think like I almost sold a show three years ago uh I had a you know how many almost
little shows I've heard in my life no did you have did they have a did they have a contract in
their hand from Warner Brothers uh maybe oh yeah dude I got a few of them had I got to smell that
freshly printed paper oh that's suck man uh so I had this like manager uh fucking a few years ago
dude and like pitched some shit as this production company that he knew that like um it's like his
like wife's old friend or something this he was a fucking scumbag they didn't like the first thing
I pitched to him they're like what about reality shows I'm like what about reality shows what
about fucking stupid yeah so uh I ate shrooms because that's what you do when you're trying to
write tv definitely uh alone I fucking a to a locked myself in my room and I was like fucking
be somebody you know there's gotta be a fucking idea and there's somewhere and I watched a bunch
of reality fucking tv oh because I never watched it and then I was like oh my god like what do we
do is show where I cover up people's x's names and it's like divorce court so the whole idea was
like you know you come in and like I have Jessica of my arm the whole time I'm tattooing you get
to talk shit about what a bitch Jessica was you know what I mean and like you know that stupid
fucking reality tv moment where they go over the mirror and there's the fucking stupid music and
they have the reveal of their new tattoo and it's oh my god you did it you know what I mean they did
that you're looking no they didn't do this it was a cover up tattoo show that that one did exist uh
we that one was tattoo numbers that was just like everything this was specifically x's names
you know what I mean so like you come in like I fucking put a grim reaper over your baby mama's
name or whatever the fuck it is you're looking at me like oh my god I'm so happy this bitch is behind
me the curtains open who's here Jessica let's hear her side of the story sit down yeah and then
that's all it was and uh that bitch we did it we filmed the most awful pilot ever but pilots are
dumb like it's yeah pilot's a proof of concept you know what I mean yeah so we filmed this for
like a sizzle the pilot is any great show is like usually pretty bad yeah so we filmed not breaking
bad breaking bad was great walking dead is pretty great too I take it back I've never seen either one
of those shows I was too busy on the road to watch tv's like you're too busy writing your own story
yeah I used to always talk shit about people like that output I was like I like back in the day when
you actually had to like eight o'clock on sunday like sit down and watch a show I was like I will
never be such a boring boring fucking bleak fucking motherfucker that like eight o'clock
I gotta be home I need to watch my shows yeah fuck you yeah you don't even get a t-vo you piece of
shit go live your life watch on your t-vo I'll never let your fucking tv guide fucking dictate
when I'm home yeah we wrote this fucking sizzle filmed it uh and then they liked it I remember
I got to call it oh my god they really like it and I was like look at the fuck out of here so like
this production company pitched it so Warner Brothers because they did uh
stage 13 was this thing that like Warner Brothers did a few years ago it was supposed to be like
their vice kind of thing you know what I mean uh they loved it they wanted to buy it they wanted
to buy 120 minutes of content they were gonna give me a three-year talent deal with Warner Brothers
a 10k signing bonus you know what I mean and then like a like an option to like try to pitch some
other shit to this fucking reality tv show and I was like yeah fuck it you know what I mean
that's a break you know what I mean I'll take it uh super stoked uh so mommy made it oh my god
they're gonna buy this you know what I mean within the hour that like I call my mom crying
me like I fucking did it you know what I mean uh within that hour my manager at the time gets in
a screaming match with the production company because he wants to be e p and they're like you're
a fucking talent manager you have no tv like experience whatever why the fuck would we give you
an e p credit and he goes fuck you we're no deal and like what do you mean no deal like and yeah
burnt the whole fucking thing down like that whole industry is such a fucking shit clown
shit dude yeah uh managers are you don't like they're fucking leeches dude agents are the fucking
like dude the way this whole thing is now dude like agents in LA dude are just fucking rich kids
that like just fucking like sit around yeah and all they do is they're like oh so you've worked
really hard and made something yourself like with your youtube or you have a million followers now
i'm gonna take 15 to book you now yeah and people that could do it themselves it's not like the 80s
when like these motherfuckers so many of them yeah but it's not like the 80s when people went to
like clubs and were like this dude's a talent we're gonna like sign them and groom them and
like do things you know what I mean like in order to make it now like dude rap fucking like if you're
in a band if you fucking play the ukulele whatever the fuck you do if you act do comedy you have
to already make it on your own on the internet before an agency or anybody will even look at you
oh for sure so like fuck them right like those are also people i would like a second holocaust of
just hollywood agents you know the problem with the hollywood the tv and hollywood shit is just
fucking dude they're all leeches man and they're all old and they're all old suit wearing motherfuckers
who everything that they do is depicted by advertising and every decision they make
comes from they're advertising money don't listen to call me who don't listen to fucking music
who don't watch movies they don't care no they're fucking okay about you awful people dude they're
so terrible man and like that's why like like we're like fuck this like we want to do this in our
own like if somebody wants to buy it and like pay us to do it like that's what i'm saying you should
put it on youtube be able to be like the whole thing that you you know like fucking things are
already out there like this like a scripted show isn't like a youtube thing you know what i mean
like yeah we want to make right sketches cool you know what i mean but no one like youtube dude
people watch two minute videos dude remember vine that's not true but rows of seamy valley dude for
them all right people watch three hour podcasts they say they do you know what i mean like uh like
no one really listens to rogan they watch the clips you know what i mean like it's like but yeah
people like us do his palatial estate would say otherwise but yeah like uh people like us like
i'll listen to a whole fucking podcast you know what i mean i'll watch like a fucking like fucking
weird documentary about some shit i'm not even into just because it's hilarious you know what i mean
yeah of course birds are battery powered you know yeah obviously like the masses i'm talking about
the masses of people don't i think more people watch longer stuff though on youtube than you
were people like us you have to forget that the people that are really out there like the fucking
you know what i mean like there's a lot of people like us come on have some faith in humanity it's
hard i know it was like you were saying on dr drew yeah somebody saying something that specific
that really reached out to you there is but i didn't listen to that show because i wanted to that was
just a fucking lucky thing where that's happened to be in my car and now you have an algorithm
yeah spoon feed you these sorts of things that you could be putting out there yeah uh but like i
just don't we just don't want to do youtube with this i mean we might like uh but like i mean i'm
not saying it has to be youtube i'm just saying like find figure out something where you can put
out there and and well we are the other thing is we already have we have two production companies
before we even started this that were like yeah i want you to make this i just know so many people
who and including myself who have been in this position for so long and they just wait and they
wait and they wait and they have something so great and they just don't put it out because they
think they're gonna hit that fucking pot of gold oh we're not gonna wait somebody's just gonna show
up like yeah you made it here you go exactly you have permission to be successful now we already
have like people in place that are like that they're gonna like pitch it and like we already
thought like they have like an like x amount of time to like picture the people they want to and
then we will like put it out on youtube and then try to sell fun like a couple episodes after that
we just don't want to do that like right away you know like for sure we're not like you don't want
to waste it i'm excited to see it honestly i can't wait to fucking see the pilot i will show you
it's it's how long is the pilot like 11 minutes okay yeah it's uh it's super fucking florida it's
like everything about yeah that sounds so like yeah they were like uh they shot down our first
episode uh the we wanted to do an episode about a baby stuck in a hot car windows are cracked
in his favorite you can i was trying to get it out but uh that's good uh it ends up just being like
the the the plaza prostitute blowing a midget so they're like maybe not for the first one and
they're like yeah by the way your only female is uh is a prostitute you guys need another strong
female we're like no the prostitute's not even a a female they're like it's a tranny it's a dude
and they're like what and they're like yeah but the whole joke is that like we're like that's a lady
and other people keep like misgendering her but like we're super like that's a fucking lady
but it's clearly like a dude with a dick in a five o'clock shadow uh and their production company
was like you guys are fucking wild i love this uh so yeah we had to write like a another character
and so we wrote like a like a like a strong female that's like a piercer you know what i mean and
like she's like the funniest like my wife played it in the pilot because like it's drugging everything
i'm like hey we need a chick to play this and nobody else wants to be around as media spit some
lines but uh yeah it's fucking rad it's uh it's fun as fuck so we ended up going with the uh
the zombie face eater uh from like the Haitian dude yeah everyone knows that story yeah yeah
so we rewrote it to where we're the ones that sold them the basalts yeah like we're like ignorant
to it and like we we stock a roma therapy crystals not known where they are and then like
the piercer chicks the one that like ends up like breaking it like you know what i mean
like what basalt what the fuck are basalt she's like it's like chinese meth i'm like
fucking loser would sell that like oh fuck we did you know what i mean and then yeah a long
story short like our shop bum like eats my buddy's face off in the parking lot the shop bum yeah i
can't wait to see this is the pilot yeah i'll show it to you guys when i don't sound silly uh but
yeah it's fucking it was like the funnest thing like that we ever did like i've never had to like act
before you know what i mean unless you're counting like you know not telling your teacher that your
sister beats the shit out of you maybe i would be a good actor uh but yeah it was fucking weird
like i have to play myself but it was so weird to just be like okay just be yourself you know what
i mean as soon as the camera's on you're like hey what's up guys it's so fucking weird dude like
acting's not hard like i just don't think i could cry on command like i'll respect those people like
my job is so hard of an actor i'm like you're not a writer you just read lines that other people
wrote for you and have a nice face go fuck yourself you know what i mean like we purposely
wanted to cast like a bigger chick for like the chick role because like they were like
we're like a strong female you know what i mean and like my friend Hilary from North Carolina is
one of the fucking funniest comics she was so she was in that netflix movie dumpling with Jennifer
Aniston uh and like we were like when i met her like you know what i mean uh i was like you know
what's Jennifer Aniston smell like cookies like i just feel like i see her and i just it's got to
be pleasant it's got like freshly baked cookies or like potpourri she's just potpourri god damn angel
but like uh i want her like married to Brad Pitt i don't know did they get back together i hope
so i don't know i don't know they deserve each other i can't keep up they're fucking awesome for
however old she is don't know 51 i think i get my snippets of like her and Brad Pitt's life whenever
i check out at Publix yeah star magazine yeah uh but yeah like we were like so the production
company we need like a strong like female person and they're like hey maybe a looker we're like
fuck you a looker you know what i mean there yeah because that's how fucking all those fucking
scumbag people are you know what i mean they'll like take some chick that can't act they can read
lines that has like a hot ass you know yeah you're gonna be a stag and after they can predict yeah
yeah you want to stay at my house i'm the producer yeah like Scarlett Johansson's really talented
no she's just good looking uh like dude a lot of those people like fucking Robert Downey Jr's only
because this is who his dad was you know what i mean like we wouldn't know who ben stiller was it
wasn't jerry stiller because jerry stiller had talent you know what i mean ben stiller is just
okay uh so like we were like yeah fuck you guys like so we were like no we want to
fucking cast like a chick that's not like your fucking normal bullshit like little skinny trampy
chick so like uh it just didn't even click and i'm like i can do a blow in a bathroom with
fucking hillary and fucking north carolina like jennifer anson do you see your underwear like
just being a fucking asshole i'm like oh my god you should play this part if we ever get a chance
to do this oh my god and she was like she was so funny because she was like she's like yeah she's
like i always feel like they always like cashing she even said like her role in that movie dumpling
she's like they only cast me because i was a fat girl she's like that's what they wanted they wanted
like that like not hot like she's so fucking she's like they casted me because of that's like
the character they wanted for and i was like i was like i'm not trying to cast you because you're
fat i'm trying to cast you because like i want you to get a job that they would give to somebody
else that wouldn't fucking deserve it because she's fucking hilarious she's the best person
for the job like it's just uh i fucking hate that it happens all the time like you get like
people like women aren't funny women are fucking hilarious dude some of the funniest
comics i know are women dude uh and when the fuck are comedy clubs gonna open back up dude when
you get back into it hopefully never dude i'm hoping to stall bar shows from now on bro i hope
they all burn down i fucking hate them to drink minimum fucking assholes well you gotta get back
at it dude you were fucking on the tear for a while weren't you dude i miss it so bad dude like
i'm just sitting at home writing shit dude like there's so much that i can't wait to talk about
dude like just sit at home like i've talked a lot of shit about long guys you got anything
you want to try out yeah let's talk about this one uh i spent a lot of time talking shit about
long guys uh last couple years because i'm like this is fucking yeah you made a career out of
what i used to do for ten dollars for my grandma you fucking loser you know what i mean like how
do you just quit and go you know what i'm gonna cut grass you know what i mean like do you have
no fucking try and you didn't you know you're not you're just a long guy you weren't even like
you know i'm gonna chain saw and cut a tree down there's no fucking do in their life i've
talked so much shit about long guys and then this whole thing happens i'm at home losing my
business broke just listening to fucking lawnmowers all day dude just fucking all day just some guy
who feed my family you wanted to be an artist you piece of shit
just sit and i don't know if you know this the sound of lawnmower makes is actually
really fucking fast if you're at home and depressed it just sounds like some fucking
white trash dude cash and checks that you're not it sucks uh i fucking hate it dude i really
ate crow with that one like almost literally because i couldn't afford food like i was about
to probably start having to actually eat crows uh yeah that's i want to talk about that and
how much shit i've talked about labor people because like i kind of got on a hind why my dad
was a labor dude you know what i mean uh and i watched that dude struggle and that was like
something i was like i'm never gonna fucking be that dude you know what i mean i'm never gonna
like and like it's true some of the happiest people in the world come home fucking smelling
like fucking bo every day you know what i mean but like i just i like i wonder if those people
just never try to do what they really want to you know what i mean because you always meet some
guy like what are you doing i've worked on acs for 30 years i've provided for my family you
know like all right cool yeah the guy does like ac work but would you really want to do and you
find out this dude builds like the greatest bird houses ever you know what i mean it was because
ago i actually i'm a symphony fucking pianist tree house master you know what i mean like i go home
at night i'm playing fucking Beethoven on the p.m and you find this dude's fucking wicked good at
piano but he never fucking tried to do it dude uh george bush jr perfect example have you seen
that dude's paintings if his family dude his paintings are fucking great it almost makes up for
all the war crimes almost makes up for now i think it almost makes him like i think you should
start painting the iraqi kids that we drone struck i might start liking him then he's just got the
towers crumbling down that dude's like the perfect example i had no idea he was a painter dude they're
great like they're really good but that is the perfect example of why you just don't do what your
parents tell you to do and what other you know i mean that dude didn't want to be a fucking oil
baron or fucking president you know what i mean that dude wanted to fucking smoke we drink bush
light and do cocaine and paint hell yeah and if fucking barbara bush and fucking george senior
who's been like i have fun in the basement with your paintings faggot like we wouldn't have went
to fucking iraq and killed all those people because he would have just been paying like man we
shouldn't blow people up you know i mean like oh man but that's the whole thing is like just
like the fact that i can pay my bills like you think the same thing would have happened to hitler
if he would have followed through with his paintings i don't know that's a deep this is recorded
maybe would have been a nicer guy i don't know i think i think what really fucked hitler up was
world war one you know what i mean because he was like like you think like that dude was like in
war you know what i mean that dude was like uh that dude was like the dude you see at time
out trying to fight everybody with fucking btsd that dude is no different than the dudes at rudies
that are like fucking you kneel i'll crush your fucking head yeah what do you do take off your
face man oh my god take off your face i have to write this down i'm so sorry i think that's
such a funny idea of like that's what hitler really was he's an artist dude he i mean yeah
he was an artist but i mean like you think about that dude was a dude who's fucked up for more
just like the people that we know now like the dudes that shitty square
fucking the police haircut haircut you know the hawaiian t-shirts and it's sad too because
they're just people like ptsd that like never got it like dealt with you know what i mean
but then it's a dude like that they got into power you know what i mean like that's all it is
like you imagine if we took something like dude some guy just got shot like two days ago in
missouri or something for they wouldn't let him on a bus because he wasn't wearing a mask yeah so
he fucking shot the bus drivers yeah exactly that's insane retarded dude i can't what a perfectly
way to shooting some other dude was in a liquor store in texas and the late the it was a lady
clerk at the liquor store wouldn't let him check out because he wasn't wearing a mask so he
fucking punched her in the face there's a dollar there's a dollar general in uh michigan liquor
where that happened too like dude walked in that might be the one that i'm thinking of they're like
you need to wear a mask yeah fuck you like yeah but that's all hitler was man hitler was a fucking
like if you took one of these like i ain't not gonna shit about him but if you took some kid
that went to fucking iraq in o3 you know what i mean and comes back you know what i mean he's a
fucking buzz cutty fucking don't tread on me fucking war dude and you put that dude in power
that dude would start exterminate muslim people that's all hitler was hitler was just a fucking
dude with a bad haircut that was jaded for more that got a position of power that should never
get a position of power that's a weird thought i'm gonna write that down i fucking hate those
dudes so much but it's what i've noticed is that most people that come back from like serious
battle they aren't really like that no oh man that's a whole another conversation i would love
to have with the buddy mine that was uh that was over there and he's like yeah i saw some shit
it's fucked up you know what i mean he goes with the he's like the loudest ones that come back
are like you know what i mean he's like not all of them you know what i mean he's like wait
you meet people that were like over there and shit and he's like you know there's people like me
that came back like you know he's like i fucking wake up screaming in arabic sometimes like
shit happens you know what i mean i fucking killed a few kids whatever yeah and like but like yeah
but then there's the like the look at me like i had some fucking dude one time there's the guys
that are just looking for attention yeah i get it i mean i know you shouldn't talk shit about them
because like god forbid you say anything fucking negative about them yeah yeah uh like it was your
fucking choice you know what i mean like you chose to go like yeah that we weren't forced it's not
fucking you know fucking north korea where you fucking go in the fucking military you know what
i mean it's not a draft the shitty part is like the fucking how like the fucking uh the recruiters
prey on kids you know what i mean that was like one of the greatest things that like i know a lot
of people don't like michael more michael more has done some cool shit like i love where uh
he was like fucking he was in michigan and all the recruiters were like the dirt mall on the black
side of town trying to get those kids to go to you and he's like hey why don't you go to the mall
on the other side of town like yeah no they they kick us out of there they don't want us fucking
like poaching your fucking little like white upper middle class kids and to go to the military
they want the fucking poor ones to go like and then that's that's the truth of the military they
fucking pry like uh first time i run to the town my kids moms or um my kids mom fucker wouldn't go
anywhere with her my wife first time i went with my wife to the little fucking piss hole fucking
corn town in the middle of illinois that she's from it bummed me the fuck out because every dude
that i met there all went to the military not because they wanted to because they were like i'm
either gonna fucking work in a cornfield it's a way to get out of where you're at yeah and they're
all so fucked up now every like like all six of the people that live in this town like you know
what i mean they all graduated high school they all went and like why are they so fucked up dude
from fucking liquefying kids in a tank you know what i mean that should have fucked with you
you know uh i'm like they're all so fucked up from that shit and they're just like
every night sitting this fucking bar and it sucks because like they had no like that was their choice
it was like am i gonna go work at the fucking factory and hate my life the army yeah i'm gonna
go on the fucking army get out of the town yeah and like now they're just stuck there dude and it's
satisfied dude it's so like it just it it boggles my fucking mind that like people still are like
you gotta follow your dreams yeah give it a shot yeah and that's why i get fucking so pissed off
like i've met people that like that's the hidden talent thing like you meet somebody like you
know you don't know that they're like you know whatever the fucking cross stitch or whatever
you do whatever i mean cross stitch whatever the fuck you do you know what i mean like you
meet some people like you know like some you know i had no idea that that dude like you know
was that good made airplanes out of beer cans like those are really good beer airplanes you
know what i mean i like what i sell them at the fucking flea market make money off of that
stop fucking plum and dip shit you know like evade taxes make your own money like fuck do what you
love dude yeah like and that was like i wanted to be like the whole reason i wanted to be a paralegal
is fucking shit he's a son the whole reason i wanted to fucking become an attorney is to like
help people that like we're getting fucked over you know what i mean like i like s lc punk as fuck
was like oh my god more damage in the system you know like i literally i was like yo i'm gonna be
fucking a c l e like an a c l u attorney and like help people that are getting fucked over
and like do shit and like really fucking change things but like that's never gonna happen no
one's ever gonna change it not me you know what i mean i'm just a dude uh i can't even pick the
right branch in a tree to kill myself oh my god you change the world you know bring it back
there's a bunch of white trash losers from penniless county but i think we'd be the perfect
people to storm the fucking like if like pitchfork time came you know what i mean yeah i'm staying
in if if pitchfork time every no i wouldn't be there either i mean staying inside all i'm saying
is it would be floridians you know what i mean honestly i don't think it would i think it'd be
somewhere in the midwest michigan somewhere where michigan's out and they're running right now
yeah they're you know i mean the three presenters texas oh my god i love florida is definitely gonna
be fucked up everybody's at the beach yeah we're all chilling well where we where we are at least
yeah not not on uh a pot cup not a st cloud not a state road 60 yee haw junction yee haw junction
how long do you think like those militia people would actually last in a fight against the actual
militarized police i think they'd give up as soon as the police showed up day tops dude now some
people would die no that wouldn't be like another like wake oh i think it would like why do you think
like 60 days wake oh yeah i just wake it wasn't that long it's like 51 days right it was like 51 days
would you just watch the documentary stinky no we just watch yeah let's watch it on that yeah i
watched that too it was a great show it was good it was really good every documentary that was wild
man i love that they focus on his guitar playing yeah he does yeah it's a fucking sick guitar yeah
dude yeah like bc riches hanging out while he was preaching yeah like the best mullet ever too
oh yeah he looks like if chuck schuldner was like a christian preacher and i really appreciate it
it was a good show i love when you talk to like right wing people about that like yeah the atf and
shit totally fucked up all that shit like that guy was just a dude just living his life he was right
yeah he was living his life and having tons of wives except for the kids he was yeah he had legal
guns he was selling yeah dude i just uh i wanted to fucking time around the other night about uh
like 51 days election year shit you know what i mean here we are again whoo and uh like i had a
friend of mine try to i was like i'm not fucking voting fuck that shit you know what i mean they're
like you have to you don't have to go you gotta do it like every person who doesn't vote or vote
for a party it's a vote for trump that's exactly what my mom tells me good they're like you have to
go vote for biden i'm like seriously if you don't vote for whoever is telling you to go vote then
you're wrong i'm fucked up about it i'm voting for justin amash i'm gonna vote for you dude
i'm writing in kyle roose kyle roose dude i would be a great president dude i would legalize drugs
yes fire everyone and quit fuck you fuck all you you got my vote so fast yeah friend of mine
i was like you have to vote for biden i was like i can't believe i was like you coming me of all
people like somebody who went through some fucked up shit like you want me to vote for the dude
who like open mouth kisses boys and like he does all sorts of creepy yeah and they're like that's
just that's just that's just editing yeah fuck you that is not editing creepy i know that guy
like i've seen that guy some fucked up with that guy yeah no that dude like i don't know what i'm
saying that dude makes trump look good yeah dude i love the like which rape is
drinking a vote for yeah right i'm just gonna sit this one out i heard howard just started
talking about trump dude he fucking hates him dude yeah but he used to love him and yeah i know
that's like i love him as a friend i mean he was a great guy he's been to my wedding or whatever
but uh when he asked me to come speak at uh his inauguration his presidential inauguration he
howard was like almost going to do it and talk about hillary because he loves hillary
but he's like i can't because trump was so good to me we were had such a good friendship
i would have been sick how great would have been if howard started with a shit of his fart man
you know that oh my god yeah i would have been the shit oh my god not even like talking about
politics with anybody anymore no because like i don't know enough about it to talk about it
and like i read a lot about shit and like keep like a like a very open mind about stuff about it
just because like with comedy like you kind of have to know what's going on like you got to
know what the fuck's going on in the world to like talk about shit you know what i mean you can't be
like going on stage being like yeah so uh wake up right people are like what is that like the
series didn't just come out people wouldn't be like what happened right uh but yeah like it's
fun to like talk about i mean i don't necessarily do put there's people that are very good at
political humor i'm not one of those people uh but like you have to stay up on that shit and
it's so crazy like everything's so politicized not like even comedy you know what i mean like
you these like preachy like 21 year old kids that like will go up and like just do fucking like
literally like comedies become trump set up punchline they want nothing to do with that
like i want nothing to do with and honestly if that's all you're doing it's too easy you can make
fun of that dude constantly yeah easy easy fucking target like you can just repeat what he says word
for word and it turns into a joke he is funny as fuck the shit he says is pure comedy most
oh my god yeah he says it's so fucking funny oh yeah i love people that like they won't admit
like shit they won't even be like yeah he's funny even if you don't like him they're like
fuck him everything he does is awful you know what i mean it's from china china china rug
the story daniel's thing was awesome like i loved when all that was going on yeah that was good
my favorite part about the whole story daniel's thing i just like calling out people
aren't bullshit and the whole story daniel's thing was going on you had a bunch of like fucking
300 pound dudes that probably bowl in a fucking Tuesday night fucking handicap league talking to
like ah stormy daniel's that dirty bitch you know what i mean the dirty like they wouldn't fuck her
like she's so gross oh my god that didn't even happen i'm like you're making fun of somebody that's
like top tier porn star while you go and fuck somebody from the bbw amateur section shut up
fuck you it was just so funny dude like from the fucking american legion yeah
some dudes in a fucking american legion with his fucking pig and lipstick
god stormy daniel's is gross i'd never put it in her i'd much rather go home and
fucking fist you betty get your fucking priorities straight dude like that's that's the
the funniest you don't even need politics to shit on politics no because there's no
uh there's no a to b anymore i always thought that was an incredible like excuse for why somebody
wasn't sexually abusing somebody's like well look at them yeah no why would they touch them
dude how was that excuse for it to not happen because people want people don't realize that
people get abused that are vulnerable yeah they're not it's not a looks thing you know what i mean
uh it's not it's a it's a vulnerability thing you know what i mean uh it really is like
kids that get preyed on dude that's why it's always the camp counselor that like they know
like you know what i mean like when they bring in the the new class of whatever yeah the camp
counselor sees like all right let's line up for dodgeball they're not lining up for dodgeball
that camp was like i'm fucking you at retreat if i got squints in the side just like pushing up his
glass like i'll see you ever tried wine billy yeah and that's that's it's not a it's not what looks
there you later imagine being so good of a pedophile that you could like that one's not really
like you're some like sommelier for a pedophile yeah oh that a little fat for my taste
was that a gap in your teeth billy get your shoe you get what are you getting braces maybe next summer
get your shit together is anybody still watching this thing
we got any live here 42 people cal roberts is still is he still watching
cal roberts one i am shout out to kyle uh fucking member he just commented quote she's too ugly to
rape unquote that is all put that on my tombstone your lies kyle she was too ugly to rape dude we
just did like three hours almost yeah i was fucking solid holy shit so where could people that watch
this find you on social media and the interwebs uh my twitter is kyle underscore roose uh that's
always fun uh don't follow my facebook because there's way too many people on that uh too many
people yet to the like 5k thing and i'm too lazy to make one of those fan pages oh yeah yeah this
i fucking hate don't don't friend me on facebook iphone 5 dude i hate social media like i wouldn't
even do it if like i didn't have to for like comedy and tattooing and shit uh but yeah on my instagram
is uh bndk 727 can't get into what that means uh but yeah my instagram uh that's all tattoo
stuff and screenshots and twitter jokes and shit follow me on twitter twitter's funny you're really
active on twitter i have no followers like it's always every once in a while post something i'm
like you know three people didn't like that in the front of me yeah but yeah twitter's uh twitter's
a blast dude hell yeah follow me on twitter whenever clubs open up come see me do shows
say what do you like better tattooing or comedy that's an awful question like what do you like
better blowjobs or pussy don't know you don't have an answer they're both good yeah they're both
really ready have you ever thought about doing comedy while you're tattooing yeah dude everybody
always says that like oh my god you should call me while you're tattooing i'm like why don't you
fuck off and let me just do what i don't want to do that you want to fuck up a tattoo don't
tell me what to do yeah i just feel like that would be like the most cliche thing ever yeah like
you know it'd be really funny if your mom said jokes while she was baking i don't do that shit
i know i do stand up because i do stand up and i like tattooing because it's tattooing like
i do both when i go on the road dude like that was like when i realized like oh shit you could
do both like i'm in fucking portland main this weekend you don't even do in fucking comedy
i'm gonna tattoo on there and you can touch yeah and that's where like a lot of comics
fucking hate me because they're like we just fucking bullshit fucking gig i only made a hundred
bucks when you're like four bucks that too right let's go get a steak yeah fucking losers you know
the whiskey dude you know how many times i've been on the road like comics that have like remote
jobs you know what i mean and like they're like i'm like yo let's go out they're like oh i gotta
work tomorrow i'm like oh that's right you gotta sign in your fucking stupid fucking bank job
and fucking you know crunch numbers you piece of shit because you never tried to make something
yourself you know what i mean well you still do comedy i'm like well if you were good at it you
wouldn't have to fucking do your dumb bank job i'm gonna go drink till four and go tattoo fucking
fat girls quit dabbling hell yeah tattoo a couple blood holes tomorrow yeah that's it quit dabbling
just dive right into it yeah i mean that's it make it happen uh i think there's Doug standing up
that said he's like you should fucking do whatever you love until you start getting paid for it
he's like whatever it is fucking acoustic guitar like that's the biggest fuck you that you could
ever do you should do whatever you love until you start getting paid for yeah you should just do
what you do until you're good enough at it to where you're getting paid for it okay when you get
paid stop no fucking keep fucking going but the whole point was that like you can make anything a
fucking job you're gonna be like how many fucking white girls with dreads have etsy stores that have
more money than all of us right now because they sell fucking trinkets and like yeah a little
bit like crystals you know what i mean like that's a career you know what i mean like i want to
trade their dreams for security my wife my wife my wife my wife my wife literally goes to
fucking goodwill and buys clothes because she knows like what she's looking for yeah and then she
sells it to fucking rich white girls that are too lazy to go shopping on fucking poshmark
that's sick yeah that's hustle man that's that's the thing you could do like yeah like uh if you
like you don't know what i want to do like dude if i could do anything in the past it would i would
go back and i would kick myself in the dick when i decided to take a student loan to go to college
because i thought that was the only way out like it's fucking stupid you don't have people i know
with bachelors degrees that like are like you need to start books opens again so many of them
and they're not even good at making coffee yeah it's fucking shit dude yeah like you guys
fucking do this like don't work hard don't work hard it's a fucking we're all gonna die it's fucking
stupid full transparency though i do have a bachelor's degree yeah and what fine arts fine arts
the focus and graphic design and so does she so does stay alive i don't give a fuck like what
i mean i do like college works for some people you don't mean like yeah like yeah if you're a
doctor you know college was just like an excuse to like play in photoshop for four years yeah like
it's just but like i feel like it's that forced upon thing of like if you don't go to college
you're not going to be anything yeah like it's it's that or long that's right yeah it's uh it's
the fucking world we live in that's the saddest part about all of this is like and that's the
weirdest thing like i get so mad like my friends uh i have a buddy's a really good cook that uh
just doesn't do anything and that's what makes me so mad like you know i fucking pay my bills telling
dick jokes and tattooing and you work at a bar cooking wings like when you can work at like
a really good restaurant but you just never try like fucking go do it yeah some people are that
do that like exactly what you're talking about right now when they're really good at something
but they don't want to do it enough to where they can make money at it or actually go somewhere with
it is they want it to be too perfect yeah they don't want to release it out to the world like
because they're afraid of the criticism oh yeah this dude's got it too easy it's a smoke wean the
walk in yeah he's got a burger yeah for him he's made it you know what i mean he's there too
they're too romantic to it you know what i mean like this dude doesn't realize that he's working at
like a fucking like good ass restaurant somebody in the live chat just said i bust cheeks for a living
hashtag cheek buster but do you get paid yeah that's the biggest question wild boy k k do you
get paid for busting cheeks what does your shirt say oh god this is so uh so let's work at the shop
and Augusta georgia last weekend yeah because i've been driving to georgia to work yeah unlike
everybody else just sitting around waiting for their unemployment yeah fuck that how about that kid
fuck you and your stimulus check oh man that's a whole fucking are you up to date on that story
yeah that was murder that's what that was and this fucking story dude what story straight
fucking murder that kid who got shot running down the street i don't guys who ambushed him i don't
care if that dude fuck that dude's daughter silly five minutes before that you don't just get to
shoot people in the street you don't understand in the back of a truck bed with a shotgun yeah
oh no and there's rule there's rules for citizens arrest and i'm pretty sure one of them is don't
shoot them in the face definitely yeah that was that was pre-meditated all day yeah they're like
waiting like well how do you know they try to say he was like are you on a construction site or
something like well they said he was robbing houses or something but the security cameras showed him
like in a construction weird because i'm not doing is running down the fucking street i didn't see him
with fucking nana's china in his hands or a tv i didn't see him in shit you know like so what if
he did let the fucking cops deal with it no they were racist ass white people well the guys are
arrested now right yeah yeah yeah they're going to in front of the fucking supreme court the first
thing that i thought i was like i was like who filmed this and then ends up being like their
buddy was the one who filled it yeah yeah you know what i mean they're trying to put it on him if
you didn't do anything wrong then why the minute you shot that dude your buddy go i'm done recording
yeah how long did it take he didn't roll the tape he was like uh oh oh fuck yeah you know he
fucking deleted that shit too because that that should happen in february and they just now got it
oh my god that's the fucking cream of the crop for fucking white people white people outrage you
don't mean like people like oh my god i can't believe this happened that was fucking months ago
where were you right yeah it's just now servicing which is my voice got so raspy the last couple
of years dude i'm just like i'll come home from like a like a like a long weekend to do in shows
and like hey what's going on what's up scaring the shit out of my daughter i call it the king
is this come to daddy i love you give me a hug i'll be there at seven i can't wait to hear you
got a serious raspin and uh you know it's nice to hear a comedian with a solid rasp because you
don't really hear that too much nowadays people are taking care of themselves because they're soft
yeah they're soft and they're not a total train wreck like you and i really appreciate it like
train wreck maybe you know i mean like a small train like the kids train at the mall that's the
train wreck the train wreck at the lago park train yeah that one of that one fucked up maybe like
a kid lost a foot that's my life i'm not like full on fucking oh my god like like 80 Haitians
died in the mountain because this fucking train was like a lago park the little train yeah
little train you can sit on it's like a wagon like if that dude has one too many fucking
natty lights yeah i'm too fat and drunk for this little train i had one too many coquitos it was
christmas time looking at the lights i knocked it over didn't mean to do the cocaine i'll get right
back up don't catch up dude comedy's gotten so soft like i'll be at a comedy club and like
like i'll go like oh my god you smoke i'm like uh me fuck like i'm a piece of shit because i
smoke now like like i i love going like shows and like bars where you can like still smoke me too
like oh god those are my favorite but that's why i like the whiskey you sit in there all night
smoke cigarettes and drink beer you pay in a funny time out titties time out time out you can close
right now god they like it looks nicer than it used to be it is they remodeled it a little bit
kicked out of there one night yeah it's probably something stupid how do you get kicked out of time
out you get wild sometimes the night gets wild yeah luke you should know mr uh wrap video
sometimes the night gets a little wild sometimes you just bust in the wrap video throw the whole
coconut sometimes things happen you end up on bay news nine
we got kicked out of applebee's uh
i salute across the one on across the street from what i'm trying to do and it's just drunk
at applebee's because like you'd run out of booze or you'd want like wonton tacos you know what
i mean that was the only reasons that you would walk and it was like four doors down so like
you end up over and i was just at applebee's like just pissed drunk with my body you're sitting at the
bar so like i'm a butterfly person i like the bar i forget that i'm in an applebee's i'm just
drinking at a bar yeah it's like bullshit about whatever and just fucking pack and light a cigarette
i'm like sit okay i get an ashtray you're like get the fuck out you're an apple i'm sorry i thought
i was a bar you can't smoke in here i'm sorry i like bars you can still fucking smoke and drink
in yeah those are the good bars yeah you're gonna go to a bar might as well smoke cigarette
fucking plumes dude not a fan of the smoky bars anymore no man i love i've had a taste of the
unsmoky bars so i need like the not smoky bars like it's nice waking up the next day not smelling
like excuse me uh well dude thank you so much for doing this fucking killer podcast thanks for
hanging and listening to some shit yeah dude you're a funny motherfucker yeah it's weird next time we
do this you're gonna uh hopefully you can bring a tattoo gun do some tattoos on a machine yeah
next time it is a machine we'll plan it out we'll come to you we'll do a stick and poke on a
podcast dude i'm down only do stick and pokes yeah stick and poke oh man this sounds crazy
yeah let's do that you have any sticking prison tattoos prison tattoos no i don't i have some
awful ones but they were all done the right way what's the worst tattoo you have that fucking
six six show the six six six one for the camera the junction six six six yeah the old fucking
thompson or causeway that one's sick like worst tattoo like taste wise or just though that you
have like what's your what's the taste list like awful i don't know maybe it was what's you look at
you and like man i shouldn't have got that fucking tattoo i have a tribal tattoo on the outside of
my fucking 16 yeah damn i fucking hate that thing i think that's the only reason i don't take care
of myself because i'm like if i don't i'm gonna lose that foot to diabetes anyway and then that
tattoo is gone it seems like a diabetes bad enough to lose that that fucker what if it happens
just the other foot no take that part of the plan bring on the ho ho in the chair bro what's
the best one you got what's your favorite tattoo you got i don't know man it's like a we it's kind
of like it's a stupid question right yeah no it's like one of them it's like a like i didn't have time
to really think about yeah i don't know like tattoos ever my kid i fucking love dude yeah
i have a jalapeno on my ankle that has a banner that's what i'm talking about that's what i'm talking
that's the one i'm talking about yeah that would fuck yeah yeah yeah she's got a narwhal with a
laser beam shooter on its head that says pew pew that's that's amazing really stupid i just painted
a narwhal snake the other day oh that's just stupid oh i think the worst thing that i probably
got dude i got i love tits tattooed on my ass but it's like a i a heart and like two straight
seventies porno like fucking bananas no because my mom was like when are you gonna get something
that means something and i am here you go wrong and i got something i'll love forever it's like
well i was like jenny's yeah fuck yeah cool she's a great lady yeah thanks for a shout to
mine fuck yeah man can't wait to do this again at the at the tattoo shop yeah come on i'll
have you guys fuck yeah
