Alright, Chip. Thanks for coming man. I just got a call from Matt Cox yesterday. He said
he did a podcast with you and it was jaw dropping and then I had to have you on the show.
Yeah. And I'm excited to talk to you. Well, it's good to be here, man. Yeah. I've known Matt for
a little while. He actually came on my show and when everything that I'm going to disclose here
got straightened out, I reached out to him and told him the story and he was like, bro, you
got to come on. And I was like, all right, well, let's set it up. And his was actually the first
show that I've went on and yours is now the second. So nobody else has got these stories.
So what is your story? Well, I guess to start off, you know, a little bit about my background
as I grew up in a town called Darlington, South Carolina, which is not moaned for much, but the
racetrack that it has there, a small town. And I went to school for welding.
That's pretty much been my career even till right now. That's still what I'm doing now.
And I met my wife in, oh, God, if she sees this, she'll kill me. We've been together
like 20 years. So we met at a little club that was there. And, you know, it was a crazy happening
because when she was in there the week before, this was like a club that everybody went to.
And it burnt down for a while. So when it opened back up, everybody was excited to go to it.
And she actually went with a friend. The friend couldn't get in because she forgot her ID. So
she just happened to strike up a conversation with a girl that, you know, I had went to school with.
So the following week, we're back out there again. And I see her talking to the former
classmate of mine. So I go up, I'm like, who was that? And she's like, oh, that's a friend of
mine named Felicia. You know, I met her out here last week. So I'm like, all right, you got to hook
me up. And so, you know, one thing led to another. We started a relationship and, you know, got married.
And that kind of, we stayed in Darlington until 2010. And then I worked for a company called
Newcore Steel. I'm not sure if you know that place or not, but it's one of the bigger steel
companies. There is a Fortune 500 company and they had a plant in Columbia, South Carolina.
So I worked there for about seven and a half years. And I was traveling. There was about
an hour and some change drive. And so then we switched and I was like, well, let's see about
moving to Charleston. And then we moved to Charleston in 2010. And I guess to kind of lay
the groundwork here, because these are like key components in everything that happened,
was we went to Myrtle Beach. I'm sure you're probably familiar with the Myrtle Beach area.
Oh, yeah. You seen the Eastbound and Down? Oh, yeah. Danny McBride. I just filmed a lot of that
down there. A lot in Charleston, too. Some of the strip club scenes were filmed in Charleston.
One of the best shows of all time. Yeah, he's fucking great. He does the Righteous
Gemstones down there, too. That also was one of the greatest shows of all time. That is incredible.
They bought out like a part of an old mall and turned it into like their students.
No shit, really. Right there in Charleston. Wow, that's amazing. Yeah. So a lot of people
say they see him out and about around there, walking around. He's pretty approachable, too.
So that's cool. Does he live there? I don't think he lives there, but he may have a place there,
but I don't think he's there like full time. But it's not uncommon to see him around the area,
especially when they're shooting. But you know, long story short, I come down to Charleston,
and then there's this big concert that they're having at Myrtle Beach called Carolina Country
Music Fest. This is the biggest one they had had in a while. It was supposed to be their version
of Woodstock. So it's like three days or four, really, because they added a Thursday show.
And so I go down there Thursday night straight from work, basically just drinking and music.
That's all it was. And a friend of mine comes down there Thursday, and he's like,
man, you look terrible. I'm like, what? I've had a pretty rough couple of days,
and he was a former medic. So he gives me an IV, like right, you know, straight into the arm.
And there's a picture, and I have to see if I can find it. But I'm sitting there. I got the IV
going into my arm. I still got like a beer in my hand. And you can see like all the liquor bottles
just lined up on the wall behind me. I mean, it was a crazy weekend. And then after it's over,
I get back home, fry Monday. I got back home Sunday evening. I'm scheduled to go back to work
Monday. So I haven't even been home this whole entire time trying to get stuff straight or going
to work. I get into a car accident. Probably roll like it went off the side of the road,
hit like an embankment where they were widening the road. And I mean, this car flipped probably
eight or nine times and it flips corner to corner. So it's like a barrel roll. And I was just like,
I didn't think it was ever going to stop. And the last thing I seen was a car up under me. It
landed like directly on the hood. And I thought I killed somebody. I thought they were on the road,
you know, driving. And so I'm trying to like brace myself. So when I undo the seat belt,
I don't fall on my head. When doing that, the car falls off and then rolls to the right. So now
it's sitting on the passenger door. So I still kind of brace myself, climb out and this car comes
riding by and he's like, damn, do you all right? And I'm like, yeah, I think so. So he calls,
he's like, you want me to call the ambulance? I'm like, yeah, you might as well make sure I'm,
you know, okay. So I hop down, I kind of look at where I'm at, you know, to hop down.
So the car doesn't roll on me then. And I walk up to the door where the guy's house was at.
And he opens the door and he's like, you know, it was early. It was like 530. And he's like, you
know, yeah, can I help you? And I was like, man, I just had a wreck outside. I just landed on top
of your S10 out here. And he's like, Oh, damn, that's my wife's truck. You know, she's had that
thing since high school. And I'm like, well, sorry, but it's a it's over with now. Well, that story
kind of circles into after that, I had real bad back issues like my L4, L5, L5 and S1 were just
really, really bad shape. So that comes in key to what we're going to talk about now. So you fast
forward to 2016 2017 2017. I got a friend of mine in my neighborhood that I had only recently met
him and probably known him just a couple months, but he actually committed suicide. And unfortunately,
me and another friend of mine was in the house like a couple of doors down. And we heard his wife
at the time come out screaming. Now we didn't know it was them because I was actually with them
earlier that night at a Mexican restaurant. So we go running down there to see what's going on.
I realized it's them because I literally just left him like 30 minutes ago.
My buddy ran straight into the house. I don't know what prompted him to go straight into the house,
but he did. And then when I come in there, it was just a really bad. It was like it's hands down
the worst thing I've ever seen in my life. Blood, he had shot himself in the head and it was just
awful. I mean, and those images just like haunted me. And that kind of started like just a real
kind of depression really between that. When I was out with the wreck, I didn't lose my job,
but I lost my position. So when I got back, I had to go to a different area of the same company,
but it was a different area and I didn't like that job as much. So it was just kind of like a
snowball effect. And then that led to me and my wife actually taking some time apart.
Well, when we decided we were going to split up, I was like, okay, well, you can stay at the house.
I'll move out. But if you decide to meet somebody, then, you know, I'm coming back because I can't
pay the bills and have another dude up in there on my couch watching football. And so that's kind
of what happened. I mean, my wife's an attractive woman. She's very smart. She's got her doctorate.
I mean, you know, I knew that if they come down to it and she started searching, then she would
find somebody. It was just, you know, it was what was what was going to happen. And that happened.
So in November of that year, she moved out and I moved back in. And at that point, we were both
kind of dead set on a divorce. We were going to go have it done. I was actually going to use the
divorce to pull out some money out of my 401k because when you get a divorce, you can give them
a portion of the 401k. So what I was going to do is actually get more than what I was going to give
her. And then she was just going to give it back to me. So I think the agreement we made, it was
going to be like 60 or 70,000. I was going to pull out like 80 and, you know, get the extra on top of
it. And you guys were, you guys were friendly at least. Yeah, we weren't like the best of friends,
but it was, it was, uh, you know, it was amicable. I mean, I knew I was going to give her something
out of it because we had spent, you know, in this relationship for a lot of times and, you know,
we had, we had had our issues in the past, but we always seemed to come out on the other side.
But this was just at a point in time where we were just steady arguing and we needed a break.
We definitely needed to break. And so we go forward with the divorce and, uh, it's probably like,
January or December, we're trying to figure out what we're going to do with the kids because
we're not really talking at this point. And, you know, in doing that, we're kind of like, you know,
hey, how's things going with you? How's things going on your side? And, you know, I'm like, well,
you know, it is what it is. I'm not seeing anyone. She's like, well, things aren't great here.
And that kind of prompted us to start talking again. And off and on, we kind of talked sporadically
for the next few months. Now the guy that she was living with, she had moved out into another
house in my same neighborhood. So it's kind of like, you know, how I'm sure it's like up here
or some of the places I've seen, you've got one big community, but about nine different
subdivisions in that community. That's kind of how ours is set up. So they were in another
subdivision, but same community. And he had actually left the house. So he wasn't living there at the
time. And around Easter, we're like, okay, I think we're going to give it another shot. Like we had
both kind of, you know, realized that the time apart was, you know, we did what we needed.
You know, it was time to give it another shot. And we were really serious about it. And we went
to her mom's, spent Easter. And, you know, we were just like, we told her family, this is what's
going to happen. So when we come back, we come back on Friday night. And I was just like, all
right, well, I'll get everything moved back in, but you got to tell, you know, the guy, he's,
you know, this is it. There's no need. He can't come back around because they wouldn't,
they hadn't officially cut it off, but they weren't like on the best of terms either.
And so when she told him this that night, I thought she was going to tell him Friday night,
Saturday, we go to my son's ballgame or soccer game Saturday morning. I'm like, well, how'd he
take it? She said, he come in and went straight to bed. I didn't get a chance to tell him. I'm
going to tell him today. I said, all right. Well, unbeknownst to me, after she told him,
he roughed her up, broke her phone. So I had no way to get in contact with her,
smashed a lot of stuff in the house and a lot of shit was going on that I wasn't aware of because
she wasn't able to contact me. I knew she was giving him the news, but I didn't know all the
stuff was taking place. So the same guy that I spoke about earlier, who went into the house
with me with my friend and committed suicide, he actually was outside in his garage and they
were coming by. And so he walks out and was like, Hey, you know what's going on? And he said, well,
nothing much. He said, we're looking for chip because when I find him, I'm gonna fucking kill him.
And I didn't, again, I didn't know this at the time. This was even told to the cops later
that verbatim that that's what he said. So when he knew that something was up,
he was able to get the guy to stay there and talk to him and try to figure out what was going on.
Well, at some point he was able to call me and he knew that I wasn't home because that's,
he was making my wife drive around and look for me. I wasn't home. I was at somewhere else.
So when he told me, he was like, Hey, if you ride by the house and you see his car here,
you know, don't stop. Your buddy told you that? Yeah. And at that time, the guy, you know,
that's getting the axe was over there. His name was Liam. And so he's like, if you see his car
here, don't stop. He's like, I don't know what's going on, but he was pretty upset. He said he
was looking for you. He said, but I'm trying to diffuse it. He's like, so I was just letting
you know, if you ride by, don't like stop because I don't need anything going down, you know,
here in my house. I'm fine. I was like, I said, I'm not the one with the problem. You know,
he is, I know what's going on. And he didn't, he didn't know that we were officially getting back
together, but I knew probably why it was upset. So I'm at my house and like, I'm watching a UFC.
I think it was like one of the Conor McGregor fights or something like that. And I get a text
from my phone and it's, it's him. It's the guy. This is later that night or? Yeah. Yeah. This,
this right now is probably like 1231 in the morning. Okay. And I get the text from him and
he's like, Hey, you know, can me and you talk? Or no, first he said, are you awake? And I was like,
yeah, I'm awake. And he's like, can me and you talk? And I'm like, you know, about what?
He text you from your wife's phone? No, his phone. Okay. His own personal phone,
because he had smashed my wife's phone. And he was like, can me and you talk? And I'm like,
yeah. And he's like, well, you know, look, I don't want no drama. I don't want no bullshit.
I don't want to fight. He's like, if you're comfortable, we can meet at Jamie's house.
Jamie was the guy that, you know, I've been speaking about that was in a lot of these
situations. And I said, yeah, that's fine with me. So around the same time, my daughter actually
called me because she had gotten off of work and gotten home. And my wife was using her phone.
And she was like, Hey, should I told him he got really mad? But he left and he's at Jamie's right
now. And I said, yeah, no, he just texts me and asked me if I would come over there and talk to
him. And she's like, well, are you going to go? And I was like, well, he just wants to talk. And
she's like, well, I don't know if I would go. But, you know, he is a little upset. But she said,
I know you, you can probably handle it. And I was like, all right, because I'm good at talking
and diffusing situations. I've never been like a violent guy. I can usually talk people down.
And so I go over there. And that was exactly what it was. He was more or less wanting to know
had we been seeing each other prior to her telling him that it was over. And I was like,
well, to start with really, that's my wife is not really any of your business. But to answer
your question, no, because I don't want to get him upset and him go back over there angry.
So a little bit time goes by. I mean, it was heated a little bit at first at times,
but by the end of the conversation in the garage, it was really just like
three dudes hanging out in the garage, but just with odd circumstances being what they were.
And so it's probably, I'd say 334 o'clock at this time. And Jamie, whose house we're at,
we're at his house. He's like, man, I'm fixing to shut it down. He's like, you know, if you want
to stay here, you can stay here. He's like, or you can have Chip run you home. And he said,
well, if you don't mind, he said, well, you run me to the house. And I said, yeah. So we leave.
And then like, as we're getting in the car, he says, you know, I don't know if I want to go home.
He said, I know we're going to argue. And he's like, do you care if we just go to your house?
He said, I'm just not really ready to go home yet. And I was a little hesitant, but he started
talking and telling me this story. And I don't know if he was trying to match the suicide story
that had came up in the garage and what I told you about earlier. But he started telling me
about this guy he was in the service with, because he was former military. And they were in combat
together. And the guy got shot in the head. And he was trying to hold his head together.
But something about the army said he didn't do something right, didn't follow protocols. So
he was discharged. And that's why he wore this specific bracelet on his wrist. Was it a marine
or was he armed? I'm pretty sure he was army. I'm pretty sure he was army. But the thing was,
I didn't find this out till later was that whole story was fabricated. He was actually
intelligence. And he told the guy bad intel that led him into somewhere that resulted in that guy
getting shot. He was intelligence. He was intelligence. He wasn't like in the field.
He made the story he told me was like he was in the field when it happened with him,
like right there, hands on. But the real story after, you know, this was over, I found it out,
you know, a couple of days later, he was intelligence. And he gave the guy bad intel
that led him to getting shot. So either way, I'm sure it probably did still mess him up
because he was genuinely upset about it. Like he was crying sitting in my car,
like, you know, straight up tears. So I could tell it was bothering him. I didn't know at the time
whether the story was true or not. But I could tell it was bothering him. So at this point,
I just think this dude's just like, you know, maybe he's battling through that. He is getting a
boot. So he was an intelligence branch of the army or like, like someone that would just be,
you know, telling somebody, all right, go here, go there, probably off to the side,
working on the computer. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Just like working on a computer,
not actually in combat. Somebody more or less behind the scenes. Okay. So, you know, like I said,
he's crying. And I'm thinking this dude just really just needs someone to talk to us. Not really
nothing, you know, concerning. I never, at any point in time, felt threatened at all. So we go
in my house and we've got cameras and stuff in my house. So it's seen us coming in and we're in
there for probably another hour or two. And we're talking about different things. We got on the
subject of tattoos and he was talking about, I've got a 13 year old son. He was like eight or nine
at the time, but he was talking about one of her, his buddy's mom saying something about tattoos.
And he's like, has she ever said anything to you? And I'm like, no, I'm covered in them.
So I kind of like pulled down my shirt to show him this one. And you can see, and I don't know if
you can see it right here, but there's a scar there where I had open heart surgery. Oh damn.
Yeah. And I had that in 2001, my senior year in high school. How old are you? 39.
You're 39 right now? Yeah. You had it when you were a senior in high school?
Yeah. I had a, what's called a VSD, which is basically like a real minute hole in the heart.
They knew about it from birth and it never affected me. Like I played sports, you know,
drink beer in high school, you know, like everybody else and all that. But once I was,
I was at the point where I was getting checked every four years and I went to get it checked.
And they're like, ooh, I'm like, what's something you don't want to hear when they're looking at your
heart? Right. He's like, actually what it was, was the hole was bigger than they thought. Somehow
another flap had gotten sucked over the hole. So what they were seeing was a small portion of what
was actually a bigger size hole. And he said, I'm not even saying that this is like, you know,
something major, but he's like, it's better to repair it now while you're young than later when
you're older, plus when you're older, you're going to have to pay for it. You know, right now your
mom will pay for it. And so we made the decision to go ahead and have it done. And, you know, that
scar has been there. And when he seen that scar, he was like, damn, you know, what happened there?
He kind of pulled down a shirt and I told him the story, same story I just told you.
So he pulls up my shirt from the bottom, like up to see it going all the way down.
And in doing this, he had to see the gun because I was a CWP carrier. I'd had my CWP for
probably a couple of years at that time. The weapon that I had on me that night was my carry
weapon. I'd been pulled over that weapon numerous times, the numbers run. So there was documentation
that that was the gun that I would, you know, use as my carry weapon.
What kind of gun was it? It was a Smith & Wesson 9 millimeter.
Okay. And so he had to see it. I don't really see there's any way he couldn't have seen it,
you know, right there on the hip. But when he sees that scar, he's like, you know,
man, you know what, and you know how guys, when they've had a little too much to drink,
they do like the bro hug or whatever, where they bare hug you and kind of pick you up off the ground.
So he did that. And I didn't really think too much of it at the time. I just, you know, I didn't
really know how he was with alcohol. I knew he had had some drinks at the other garage
and we had had a few shots at my house. So I just thought he was getting, you know, that point.
Well, then he goes, he's like, where's your bathroom? Showing the bathroom. He goes to the
bathroom and the way my kitchen is set up. So you got a hallway here. Then when you come out,
you got a refrigerator, then it immediately curves. You got a stove, then back this way,
and you got to sink. So it's pretty small. It's like eight foot wide at the most.
I'm up against the stove when he's in the bathroom. At this time, I'm actually texting
my daughter's phone telling her like, Hey, everything's good. Let your mom know not to worry.
And when he comes out of the bathroom, he goes straight up to me, hand up under my throat,
jacks me up onto the stove. And like, you know, people say, like, you know, they had that look
in their eye. Like he had that look in his eye. And how big is this dude? He's pretty fucking big.
Like he's, he was a jacked up dude. How tall would you say? I'd probably say he was six foot one,
maybe probably like 240, 250. Okay. I mean, he was a big boy. Not that big. I'm probably five,
10 at the most. You know, weight might be the same, but for different reasons. And two, we'll
get into this too. But at the time, he was also on steroids. We figured that out later on.
So when he jacks me up, he immediately says, he's like, I'm going to fucking kill you.
And I'm just like, it caught me off guard. Cause like,
other than like bipolar, yeah, it was, that was exactly what it was. And like,
looking back in retrospect, I'm thinking maybe he done that little pickup thing to see if he could
handle me. You know what I'm saying? See if he could pick me up, maybe, you know, swing me around
if he needed to. I'm thinking maybe that was like what he done to psychologically try to set all
this up. Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. That's just me looking back. But when he does this,
it's really catching me off guard. So I'm just like, what the fuck? You know, it's really,
you know, blowing my mind. And I'm telling him, I'm like, dude, if you don't get to fuck off me,
I'm gonna shoot you. And so I was able to scoop my way down off the stove and then he kind of
brings up his knee like he's going to need me in the side while I scoop my body to the side. He
still hits me a little bit and then he swings with his right arm. Well, when he swings, I can see it
coming. He's got me. He's holding me with his left. I was able to lift my chin up just a little bit
to where it kind of clipped the bottom of my chin. Well, when he does that, his force bringing him
this way, he let go with the left hand. So we're right here. Like I told you, I step back. I'm
literally in the corner and I pulled out my weapon and I fired and I thought at the time it was two
shots. It turned out to actually be three. Immediately after I fired, he dropped to the floor.
So I'm just sitting there like, you know, adrenaline's fucking pumping. I'm like, holy
shit. So I pick up the phone, I call 911, tell him what happened.
I have an emergency. I have indicator drive indicator. What's going on? I had a friend of mine
in my house coming in. He was striking me. I had to shoot him. He is down.
He just sent some ambulance right now. Yes. Yes, ma'am. How old is he? He's 35, I believe.
Where did you shoot him? I'm not really sure. He come at me. He hit me in the face
and I shot him in the chest two times. Okay. Is he breathing? Right now he's breathing.
Are you okay? They're saying, you know, is he breathing? I'm like, he's, you know, he's making
noises. I don't really know if he's breathing. I can't really tell. And she's like, you know,
can you see the wounds? And I'm like, well, they're in his chest. Every one of them was center mass,
like all in the chest area. There was nothing anywhere else. And that was what they taught
you in the CWP class too. It's like, you know, when the threat is eliminated, then, you know,
you have to stop legally because then there's no threat anymore. You can't like go up and
keep shooting someone if they're on the ground. Then that changes from self-defense to murder.
Unless you're Grady Judd. Yes. Yes. Are you familiar with that guy? I've heard that story.
Yo, after all this happened, believe me, anybody that had any sort of self-defense or any kind
of shooting claims like that, I researched the shit out of everybody because of what
eventually comes to happen here. But so I call the 911 operator and she's like, you know,
can you get to a towel? And I'm like, yeah. Have you got somebody on the way?
Liam, can you hear me? Liam, Liam, can you hear me? Liam, Liam, Liam, can you hear me? Liam.
I shot him two times in the chair. If he come after me, he was trying to hear me.
He was trying to hurt me. I didn't have any choice but to fucking shoot him.
Can you get a clean towel and apply pressure? A clean towel? Yeah. Yes, ma'am, I can.
I'm sorry, I did not want to do this shit. He come after me and got damaged.
Is there anybody else in the house? No, ma'am. It's just me and him. We've been here for a couple
of hours. How long ago did you just shoot him? Yes, I just did it. Okay.
Okay. Where is the gun right now? It's sitting on the counter.
Okay. Can you, can you secure the gun? Yes, ma'am. It's secured. It's unloaded.
And she said, so, you know, get to the towel, put a towel over his wound. She said,
we got an officer on the way. So I pull up the shirt and I only see two interest wounds,
which is why I thought again, initially I only heard two shots, but I guess just everything,
you know, real quick. I just didn't hear the third one, but I only seen two interest wounds.
So that's why I only thought there was two. I put the towel over him. I'm waiting. There's
a 911 call online. Is he still alive? No. Okay. Well, I mean, not now. At the time he was breathing,
he was making noises. I don't know. I've heard people say that the noise was like,
what's constituted is like a death rattle. When the officers get there, they're going to need
you to come outside with your hands up. Okay. Okay. That's fine. What's he doing right now?
He's still breathing. Okay. Right now, he's not breathing. You said he's not breathing?
He doesn't look like it. He's not breathing up and down. Okay. Can you get your face
close to his and see if he is breathing? He's making noises. He's making noises.
Is he still talking? No, he's not talking. He's just making noises.
Liam, Liam, can you hear me, Liam? Liam, can you hear me? Liam, can you hear me? Liam,
Liam, Liam, can you hear me, Liam? He's making noises, but he's not responsive. Okay.
Like gargling? Yeah. Yeah. Something along those lines.
Um, but, you know, I'm waiting for the guy to get there. He comes in and now one person's like,
you know, make sure the gun is unloaded and, you know, away from you. And when you get there,
unlock the door. I'm like, well, the door's unlocked. They can just come right on in whenever
they're here. Okay. Our officer is there. Can you step outside with your hands up?
Yes, ma'am. I can step outside. Okay. Go ahead and do that. Just put the phone down.
All right. I mean, my phone's in my ear, but I'll step outside with my hands up.
All right. Go ahead.
I'm outside with my hands up. He's in the kitchen. He's in the kitchen.
So he comes in and, uh, comes in and he's like, all right, I gotta place you and I'm
gonna put you in handcuffs. He's, I'm not placing you under arrest. He said,
but I've just got to assess the situation. So he puts me in cuffs and about that time,
another car's coming up. So they put me in the back of that car. They ever read me
real right, or anything. They just put me in a car. So they go into house and at this point,
I don't know what's going on. That's a, I'd say probably like six, six, 30 in the morning at this
time, give or take. And cars are just starting to line the block cop cars, ambulances, like the,
the big SUV vehicles from fire departments, everything. And I mean, like everybody's blinds
are just opening looking out. Cause I mean, houses are just like side by side. People are waking up
for work. Yeah. Well, this was a Sunday morning, but you know, people are going to church too,
still. And you know, they're riding by, they're seeing me in the car. And obviously they're
trying to talk and I can't really, you know, I can't say anything. I'm in the back of the car.
My neighbor comes out to house and she's like, I look at, she's like at the window and she's like,
what happened? And I'm trying to tell her and some cop like made her go away.
And so I'm sitting there. It, it was probably a couple of hours. I mean, it felt like forever.
And I still don't know what's going on. I see them bring him out, put him in the ambulance,
the ambulance leaves, and then this lady cop comes over and she at that time does read me
my rights. And she's like, you know, do you understand these rights? Yeah. Yeah. She's like,
do you want to answer any questions? I was like, no, not without a lawyer. And so she,
then she goes away. Well, I don't hear anything else from anybody. And there's still just a
shitload of cops in the yard. So finally I motioned to one of them. I was like, dude,
I got to use the bathroom. And he's like, well, you're going to have to hold it. And I'm like,
no, that's, that's not an option. Like I'm going to either go in this car or I can go in the yard
or we can go in the house like one or the other is about to happen. So they let me out and we go
in the house and he's like, this is your home. I was like, yeah, this is my house. And he said,
well, let's go upstairs where you can do a change of clothes. We need to take the clothes you have
on. Okay. So we go upstairs. I use the bathroom. I give them all my clothes. And he said, is there
somewhere you can go while we finish doing our investigation? I said, yeah, I can go around
the corner to not the guy that was involved in all this because he had just went to bed. But
another guy at this point, he's driven his golf cart over there is like sitting out in the yard
because he heard about everything that was going on. I said, I can go to his house and I gave him
the address. They read you your rights and had you in the back of the car there and let you go
someone's house. Yeah, they read me my rights and said I was under arrest. But then when they
let me in the house and I changed my clothes, they took all my clothes, put it in a bag and then
said, I wasn't being arrested. And there was there somewhere I could go till they finished
their investigation. So at this point, had you explained to anybody about what happened in the
house? I mean, not as in detail. I just told him that we was in the house and he fucking attacked
me and you know, was hitting me and I shot him. Okay. And one of the biggest reasons like obviously
one thing was like, well, why didn't you fight back or whatever? Well, number two, this guy was a
fuckload bigger than me. But number two, I just had a surgery. Remember the issue I told you about
the back, the backstory and the suicide stories all were kind of key components in this. I had had
a surgery on my back, not like a major surgery, but where they go and burn the nerve endings away
from the spine. And what that does is it gives you a little relief when you have a physical job
like mine. But afterwards, like immediately after for the first couple of days, it hurts like hell.
And but they eventually grow back and then you have to get it done again. It's kind of a continuous
process. Well, this was only a few days after having this done. So my mobility was was limited
at best anyway. So that's another reason why was, you know, the situation happened. But I'm at the
guy's house. I'm hanging out. Still don't know what, you know, I'm thinking, well, maybe I'm not
going to get arrested. I didn't know. I'm in my mind. I'm thinking I've done nothing wrong. I've
done nothing to justify arresting me. I'm in my house. You know, I was using my personal gun,
like my carry gun, and he fucking attacked me and said he was going to kill me because like,
you know, men, we have that bravado thing or whatever. You might take somebody, something,
you might even say something. But when you put hands on someone, that's a different story.
And, you know, when you look a man in the eye and tell him you're going to kill him, I didn't
know this guy. I didn't know him to be a liar. So I've got to take him in his word. And when he
said that at that point, I knew one of us probably wasn't going to make it out of that kitchen.
And, you know, it was unfortunate. But to me, looking at it was I never looked at it as I killed
somebody. I looked at it as I survived. I survived trying to be killed. That's always how I looked
at it is how I look at it today. And when the detective come to that house after, you know,
I guess they had finished doing whatever they were doing. He asked me, he said,
well, you know, can you come in and answer some questions? I said, I already told that other
officer like I'm not coming in, you know, without talking to a lawyer. And he said,
well, who's your lawyer? Well, at the time, I didn't really know any lawyers because I'd never
really been in any trouble for. So I told him my divorce lawyer, who was actually a former cop.
He was a cop for a while. Then he actually went and became an attorney. So he knew him. And he's
like, well, I know him. He's like, I'll give him a call tomorrow morning. And he's like,
we'll set up a time to have you come in and answer some questions. And I'm like, all right.
I was like, I'm free to go back home. And he said, yeah, you can go back home. And I was like,
well, you know, is there any mess? You know, what do I need to do about that? And he said,
that's not our problem. He said, that's on you, which is actually true. The way he said it was
kind of fucked up. But that's actually true. The police don't have anything to do with a mess.
So whether it's a murder, suicide, whatever the case may be, after they do their police
investigation, they don't handle anything as far as cleanup. You have to hire somebody to do that.
You have to hire like crime scene cleanup. It don't necessarily need to be crime scene
cleanup because the crime scene stuff is done. But if, you know, just deep clean cleaners that
will come in and do it. However, in this case, it really wasn't a lot to it. Because when I got
back home, by this time, my mom had already been notified. She lived like two hours away.
So she had already came down there. She was there when actually I left to go to the other
friend's house. So we went back together and she come in and I went to where it happened. And there's
literally like no blood at all. It's like a little very minute little bit like it was smeared on the
floor. That's it. Because the important thing here was with these with the nine millimeter,
I didn't have like hollow point rounds or anything like that. It was like regular full metal jackets.
So everything two out of the three was through and through. The third one apparently did,
I guess, did not go all the way through. So the crime scene was very like simple, which is not.
I'm not sure how they fucked all this up so bad. So when he was on the ground, you know,
the time that he was there, probably 15 minutes or so. Still, there was no blood on the floor.
The refrigerator door was struck by one of the bullets. It hit the handle of the door,
then hit the refrigerator and then bounced over and hit a wall like probably two inches above
my dog cage where my dog was sitting this entire time. Oh my gosh. Yeah, he didn't even fucking
move. Like he's a husky. He didn't wake up. Well, he was awake, but I mean, he's just like,
he's always got this fucking just stale look anyway, just like, you know, just looking. He
didn't even budge. And I'm just, but I didn't even know that it went over there. Like that's
not something that I even knew at the time. So you're saying that bullet went through him first,
then hit the handle and then went over your dog's cage. Yeah, that's how close and proximity we were.
It went, it hit the handle because we're kind of at an angle. So it hit the handle refrigerator,
it hit the door, then bounced and hit a wall. Another bullet hit, I had like a 24 pack of like
water like this and beside the refrigerator. So it went into that water probably like midways
into the pack or the police never found it. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a
second to talk about our sponsor, Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are
you already know how obsessed I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite
guests to have on the show is nutritional scientist and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino,
who actually introduced me to this stuff. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating
scientific breakthroughs into products that hold a potential to increase longevity. The problem
with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful
life. These zombie cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing
things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup
process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with new ones. Verso's new clean being,
which I take every night, is a powerful blend of cynolytic molecules that help promote the body's
natural cleanup processes like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health,
supporting lower inflammation and natural cardioprotective functions, while boosting
protection against age-related diseases. The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine,
lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin, which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are
essential for cell growth and proliferation, specifically when it comes to cardiovascular
and cognitive function, skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so
and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order. I linked it all below.
Now back to the show. I found it after I got back. Wow. Yeah. And we had to call them, let them know,
so they had to come back out, you know, take pictures, bag it, tag it, and all that good
stuff. So that was kind of like a number one, the first knock that they didn't really do the greatest
investigation on this thing. But like I said, the blood, we cleaned up with like one paper towel.
So that was that. That was the extent of the cleanup outside of the damage on the refrigerator.
So Monday morning, I go to my lawyer's office. He's like, you know, we're not coming in, but
you can give us the questions you want to answer. And we'll write a statement and send it back to
you. So I was like, you know, I don't know what I ain't never done this before. You know, that's
what you say we'll do. We'll do. So I wrote to, uh, wrote my statement. We sent it in and that
was pretty much the extent of it. Uh, this was Monday morning. Tuesday went by. Didn't hear
anything Wednesday. The lawyer calls me at like 4 30 in afternoon. And he's like, Hey,
he said, I got some bad news. I was like, what? And he's like, they're charging you a murder.
And I was like, fucking why? And he was like, I do not know. He's, they didn't tell me the
reason why he just said they're charging you a murder. He said, the only thing I can figure
is maybe they were thinking that, you know, you plan to get him there so you could kill him and,
you know, because you were mad at him. I'm like, they have been together for fucking months.
Like this is not like I just found this out. I was like, nobody was getting,
if anybody was mad, it was him. You know, that wasn't the situation. He's like, well,
like I said, I don't know why, but I just know that they want to charge you and they want you
to turn yourself in tomorrow at one o'clock at the local jail. So he'll thinkly detention center.
So I'm just like, motherfucker. So I hung up the phone. I was like, I'll call you back.
So at this point I'm just like, I don't know what like everything's racing through my mind.
I was just like, this can't be fucking happening. So I start calling, you know,
people that I know, I'm like, look, who's like the best legit fucking attorney for something like
this? The same name keeps popping up. Even people from states, like other areas of the state,
everybody kept coming back to one name. It was a guy named Andy Savage.
Andy Savage? Andy Savage. Really close to his name. Yeah. And that's exactly what he was. He
was a savage in the courtroom. I mean, like he, he's the sweetest guy you ever want to meet.
But when it comes to like being in a courtroom, like he's ruthless and I can see why lawyers
like him get paid the amount of money that they do. I'm going to keep you on. I'm going to change
this so Austin can pull up a picture. Does this come first guy's a website? I want to see his
picture. Oh yeah. Yeah. Andy Savage law office Charleston, South Carolina.
You knew Randy Savage is from about 10 minutes from here. Really? Yeah. That's where he's
originally lived. Wow. Yeah, that is right. I don't forget he did. He did grow up in Florida.
And he actually died literally like five minutes from here. Yeah. He hit that tree up here. Yeah.
That's him right there. Andy Savage. He doesn't look like a savage. That's him. Yeah. He looks
like a badass. Yeah. That's his wife right there. Oh, his wife almost looks like more of a badass.
Yeah. You remember the case that got a lot of attention with the Michael Slager and Walter
Scott? It was years ago where Slager was the cop. Walter Scott was like running away and he shot
him, you know, multiple times in the back. Yeah. It like swept the country. Well, Slager
had a lawyer at the time. Well, when that tape come out, that lawyer dropped him and he picked
him up and he actually beat the state charges or I'd say beat it. It was a hung jury, which is
essentially beating. You're not going to prison. But then the feds come in and they redone it and
the guy did wind up getting found guilty. But there was a lot of like, there was a lot of
controversy over that. But to break like if you actually listen to it, he represented the cop who
shot the guy in the back. Wow. Yeah. If you read up on him with the Michael Slager case, there's a
bunch of write ups on him. And I mean, a lot of high profile stuff that he's done. I mean, he's
one of the best. I mean, I didn't follow how that case ended, but that's kind of mind blowing
that they even had a hung jury. It was. But a lot of that was because you only seen the video of
that portion of him running away and getting shot in the back. But what they were able to actually
go and improve and our CSI guy that wound up working on my case actually done a podcast on it
to where they found out and they had proof that he was actually tased before he took off
and started running that the cop was tased by his own taser. So there's a lot more that people
didn't get. I mean, they're going off that one video. But you know, I was like you at the time,
I didn't know all this. I'm just going off what I see on TV, which now I look at things that are
different like from everything that happened to me. But at the time I was not doing that. And
you know, I was thinking the same thing. Yeah, I'm like, how the hell did he even get off on that?
But when you start breaking down a lot of the details of the case, I have to see a link to
that case with that CSI guy explains it. I'd love to see it. Yeah, he explains it really well.
But you know, I call him that day and it's after hours at this point in time. So his I leave a
message within probably an hour later, I get a call back from his secretary, kind of give her the
overview of what's going on. And I was like, you know, she said, can you come in tomorrow? I'm like,
well, I'm supposed to be going to fucking jail at like one o'clock, like, you know, what time you
want to meet? And she said, be here at seven in the morning. Like, all right. So my mom,
me, my wife, we all go to the lawyer's office and, you know, massive office downtown Charleston
go in and, you know, he's basically like, all right, just kind of tell me, you know, the story.
And I'm telling him as I'm kind of telling you here the same way. And he looks at me and he was
like, why are we here? And I'm like, I don't know. He's like his election year is something going on.
Like is, you know, believe me, he's like, all the people that I'll have working on this, if you're
not being truthful with me now, it will come out. And I was like, I do everything I'm telling you,
the God's honest truth. I was like, I'm in a very good position to where I do not need to lie about
anything that's taking place. Like I don't need, you know, I didn't touch anything after it was done.
I didn't move anything. Everything was as is. And so he's like, all right, he's like, you know,
well, tell me a little bit more. So as I'm going into detail, telling him more about my background,
the guy's background, like stuff's being printed off, reports are being printed off.
Like it was like something out of a movie. Like they were just getting shit done so fast.
And he's like, give me one second. So he goes outside. He makes a phone call. He comes back
here and he said, I got your surrender pushed back till Friday. He's like, I'll probably get it
pushed back till Sunday, but I'm just giving us some time to get things rolling. So I was like,
well, and I appreciate that a couple more days of freedom. But that's the kind of stroke that he had
to be able to do that. You know what I'm saying? Cause I don't think any, any average lawyer can
pick up the phone and push back something like that, especially, you know, they're charging you
with murder. It's not like you shoplifting from a family dollar. So we get together and start getting
character letters written. So I got to reach out to everybody that's got character, you know,
to write character letters. You know, even some people I had to turn away because it was like,
try not to have any of them be felons. And so like 10 of the guys, I'm like, I appreciate it.
But, you know, just don't worry about sending that letter to him. So we get to the point.
He does get it pushed back till Sunday. So like, it's almost like just a family gathering at the
house. Like family hadn't seen in a while. Everybody gathers at the house Saturday night,
just kind of hang out. And then Sunday, it was almost like, I had, I never thought that that
was like a legitimate thing. But like, if you've seen good fellows, Ray Leota hops in the car
and he's like, all right, take me to jail. I'm like, that don't happen like that. Well, it kind
of does. Cause if you facilitate your surrender, that's exactly what happened. Like we hung out
that Sunday and then I got in the car and, you know, me and my wife was in the back and my mom
actually drove me to jail and dropped me off. And, and I go in here now, I go in here not thinking
or not knowing that if I will get bond, because bond is not always guaranteed. A lot of times
it's not even given on murder. So I'm going in not knowing if I'm coming right back out.
So we go in there and I sit down and there's like this biker looking guy on the bench beside me
and he's sitting there and he's like, uh, bench of shame, huh? And I'm like, yeah, I guess you
could say that. And I've always just been told like, when you go in jail, just shut the fuck up.
Don't say anything to anybody, you know, just mind your own business. And so I'm trying to do that.
This is your first time ever in jail. Yeah. I've never been arrested before. Wow. So I was like
straight to the top of the worst list you can be in there for. And I've never been arrested for
anything like the worst that has a speeding ticket. And so he says that and then they,
they fingerprint us and, you know, take our mugshots and all that and they send us to the
holding area. And so he sits like right by me. And he's like, you know, hey, you're just making
small talk. He never asked me what I was in there for. I'd say probably like an hour or two hours
comes by and they grab me, him and another kid to go see the magistrate. Well, I'd already been
told that a magistrate can't grant bond for a murder that's got to be seen by the circuit court.
So I knew going in that I wasn't going to get any kind of clarification from the magistrate,
but it was still the formality that I had to go. So they got us, you know,
wrist to wrist, chained down to the ankle. I'll go to the room and they sit us down.
My last name's Williamson. So I'm always like at the ass end of everything.
And they call the kid first. It was like simple possession of marijuana
and, you know, PR bond. And they call the biker guy. He was like, you know, second DUI, I got to
get this, that and they're like, okay, well, my actual first name is Wade. Everybody calls me Chip,
but he's like, you know, Wade Williamson, you're charged with possession of a weapon during a
violent crime and charged a murder in the first degree. And I was like, yes, sir. He's like,
well, you know, I can't get by on that. He was like, you'll be seen by the circuit court.
So I look back and the guy that was sitting next to me is now like slid all the way down
to the other end of the fucking bench. And we go, we get back up because I was the last one.
We go back into the holding. He goes straight. He grabs his blanket, goes to like the far corner.
I didn't hear from him again for the rest of the time we were in there.
But some people, once we got more people started getting in there, they knew who I was because
they have TVs and shit in there. Like, so they were seeing the local news. So one of the guys
even said like, you're the dude from Cane Bay. And I was just like, how the fuck do y'all know that?
But they have a TV in there where they can watch the local news. So a lot of a lot of the people
were knew who I was. So I go in there the first night. And this is where I really kind of caught
a break because as I said, you've got to be seen by the circuit court to even attempt to get bond
for a murder charge. And those rotate through counties. Luckily, they were in my county
that week. So I didn't have to wait to see them. Had they been in another county and they had to
cycle back, I could have been in there a month. You know, however long it took them to cycle back
around. Luckily, they were in there that week. And I know that I'm getting seen Monday morning.
So they come and they grab me Monday, probably like nine, 10 o'clock. And I was like, all right,
you know, getting you for court. And they're walking me from the jail to the court, but it's
like an underground like walkway. And this thing looks like a fucking dungeon. I mean, it's like
something you see out of one of those movies where they're just taking you to kill you or something.
I mean, it's just I'm just walking. It seemed like the longest walk ever. They put me in a room
with a lot of other guys that are in there. And I'm still in street clothes because I hadn't been
out of the holding tank yet. And so all these guys are in like orange jumpsuits. And one of the
guys like, you must be in here for family court. And I was like, well, something like that. And
again, I'm not saying anything to nobody. And I'm listening to all these guys talking like one of
them is talking about how, you know, he's thinking about cutting a plea because he said his sister
on fire and he don't want to go to trial. And I'm just sitting in a corner like mother fucker.
And another guy is telling him like how he's going to get transferred to Atlanta
to testify against another guy that he knows up there. But he's really not going to do it.
He's just transferring just so he can have better food. I guess the prisons in Atlanta have better
food than the one in Charleston. And then another guy is saying he's just making sure he or hoping
he can get a glimpse of somebody that put him in there so he can try to stab him or something.
I mean, it's just the shit that was being said in there was just fucking mind blowing.
I'm sure that's normal for people in prison. But like, as I said, I've never been locked up.
So I'm sitting over there just quiet as hell. And they finally called my name. So I go into
this room and they cuff me up, you know, wrist again, wrist ankle, the little thing where you
can barely walk. And I go in this courtroom and I mean, it is fucking massive. It is the biggest
courtroom I've ever seen in my life. It's like something you see on like a law and order is huge
as the Baylor is like walking me to the lawyer's desk. I see all my family and everything sitting
out there. And we go up and I'm standing beside him. And so, of course, at that time they're battling.
He's presenting to the judge why I should get out. They're presenting to the judge why they
want me to stay in jail. And he's like, you know, your honor, you know, had the same job for 14 and
a half years, upstanding member of the community, never been in trouble, you know, has kids, you
know, no, no issues to keep them in here. You know, there are the states about giving their
reasons, you know, I killed a man in cold blood, just that and the other. And the judge looks and she
goes, okay, I'll make my decision and let you know and bangs the gavel down. So I'm like, what the
f- anything I've ever seen, like they give a answer right there, like either granted or denied.
And I looked at my lawyer, I'm like, what the fuck does that mean? And he's like, I guess that
means you should let us know. And I don't get to keep talking like the guys already grabbing me and
taking me back to the room to go back to the cell. And as we're going back to her, I'm like,
what the hell does that mean? Sure, let us know. He's like, I should probably give her
decision in a week or so. I'm like a week or so. Like I'm hoping best case scenario to get the
fuck out of here as quick as possible. And so I don't know what's going on. So I go back and I
give it a couple hours and I go to the phone and I call my wife and I'm like, all right, what's
going on? And she said, well, they've already made the decision. She said, they're going to give you
bond. She said, but you're probably not going to get out to tomorrow because they got to process
paperwork and everything. And I'm like, all right, well, as long as I know I'm getting out of here,
I'm cool. Like I can deal with it. And so, but she said there's a chance you could get out today,
but it's probably going to be tomorrow. Now throughout this holding time, they are still
calling people even as late as six, seven, eight o'clock at night that are getting out. So I'm
hoping that I can get out, but I'm not like got the best, you know, faith in the world of it.
Well, like 9.30 comes and the door opens and I was like, Williamson. So I'm like,
fuck yeah. And I hopped off the bed. I'm like, all right, let's go. And he's like, yeah, we're
transferring you to a CPOD. And I'm just like, wait a minute. I was like, I'm supposed to be
getting out of here tomorrow. He's like, that may be, but he's like, we got to transfer you out
of here because we got more people coming in. And he looks at me and he's like, you're Leah's dad,
right? And Leah's my stepdaughter. I've been her life since she was three. So I consider her my
daughter. And he was like, yeah, he said, my wife was her gymnastics teacher. No shit. Yeah. And
I'm just like, well, pleasure to meet you. I don't have a shitty way to do it. But you know,
he's like, yeah, he said, we got to transfer you to the CPOD. He's like, you know, we have a rule
with so many people and holding as they keep coming out, who was ever the, you know, the
one that been in there the longest, they get transferred to the pods. So I'm just like, oh,
shit. So we go and they, I got to give them all my clothes. They give me the orange jumpsuit or
rubber flip flops, the cup, toothbrush, toilet paper, three in one, body wash, shampoo, conditioner,
send me home. So I go in there and there's like these two room status, like a big open area
where the TV is. And then like, you know, a row, a door with a row at the bottom and then stairs
where the thing at the top. And it's basically just like a huge open room with bunk beds on each
side of the wall all the way down. So I go up to the top, walk through, trying to find something
on the bottom. That didn't happen. Everybody's got the bottom. Nobody wants to sleep on the top.
Well, as I walked to the end and I'm coming back, I see the guy that said he set his sister on fire
and he kind of waves at me like that. And I'm just like, what's up, man? And I kind of pointed
up top. I was like, anybody up there? And he's like, no, I go ahead. So we get up there and,
you know, I'm just still sitting there at this point. I'm looking at the ceiling. I'm just like,
how the fuck am I here? Like, I just don't get it. I got done everything by the book.
And the people in there were just like listening to some of those conversations. Like, it's not
what most people would think. A lot of them are talking about like what they want to do when they
get out, like start a business or do this or do that. And there's a lot of smart people in there.
I mean, Matt Cox even said, you know, when you put people away, like the way their brains work,
it's just constantly creating different things. And like they would, if there was an air vent
coming now or had cold air, they would wet like toilet paper and throw it up and clog the vents
that way the air wouldn't blow directly on them. I mean, they would figure out ways to do anything.
There was a guy in there that had water in a bag. And then he had that in like a, like a
pillowcase type thing. And that was what he was using as a dumbbell. Wow. Yeah. I mean,
they come up with a lot of different stuff in there to be able to get, I guess, through the day.
And this one guy comes up to me. At this time, it's probably like 11 at night. And he's like,
you know, you need a job. And I'm like, huh? And he's like, you need a job. He's like,
are you going to be bonding out? And I was like, oh, I was like, yeah, I'm getting out here tomorrow.
He's like, all right, well, I won't worry about putting you on anything.
He comes up back up again later. And he's like, if you go to use the shower, he's like,
you know how to work the shower, right? I'm not telling anybody that I've never been in there
before. So I'm like, oh yeah. Yeah, I know. I mean, I just want to let them think that, you know,
I've probably been there before. So I did go in there to try to take a shower. And what it is,
they have these things that come out of the wall. Well, when you press it, it's like an automatic,
you know, detractor. And it comes out and it only lasts for like five seconds. Right. Well,
what they do, they, they manage to make something where you can put in there to keep it from coming
back. I couldn't figure out how to work that thing to save my fucking life. But I wasn't going to go
ask nobody. So I'm having to take showers and like four second increments, you know,
to get to the beach. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Matter of fact, these are a lot shorter at the beach,
though. It just seemed like maybe, maybe even three seconds. I mean, it just went off quick.
So I managed to do the best I could and I come out and there's a group of guys just like sitting
around the table near where the bed was. And one of them noticed like, I do have a lot of tattoos.
And the guy was asking me about the tattoos and like everyone I'm in there knew my tattoo artist.
So I was like, shout out to him, Eric Rowling. But everybody in there knew that. So I think
they just assumed that I had been there before. So nobody, it wasn't like nobody ever threatened me
or, you know, it was anything of violence. They were actually like very cool in there. They were
trying to teach like this one car, not teach, but they were trying to preach to this one kid
like he needed to get his life straight when he got out that, you know, he had skills and he was,
you know, wasting his life. So it wasn't exactly what people I think envision when you go in there.
But still, it's nowhere you want to be. You want to be home. And I got out the next day,
mom come and pick me up, went home. And so at this point, I meet, meet back up with the
lawyer and I'm like, all right, you know, what's, what are we doing here? Because,
you know, I didn't do this. I didn't murder anybody. Like, you know, the guy reached out to me.
That should right there should blow a hole in any sort of premeditation because I didn't
reach out to him. He reached out to me and all that's in text messages in the phones that the cops
got. I was like, so I don't know what the hell they're basing this off of. And he's like, I don't
either. Were you worried at this point that like something fishy could be going on with your phone
or with the with the evidence that you had, like the cops could be the prosecutors could be fucking
with it at all? Yeah, very much so. Because I did have to give them my phone that day.
And I'm just like, well, if they go deleting shit, like, you know, how am I going to prove it?
Other than like maybe subpoena and Verizon or something like that. But the thing was,
is I never really got like a clear cut answer of why they were charging me until the next step
of this was a preliminary hearing. That probably took place. I want to say it was in July.
So that was kind of like the big step. He's like, you know, we'll go to preliminary hearing,
we'll see what evidence they have then. And you know, that's how we'll base our case because
the preliminary hearing, they give reasons of why they charged you. They don't necessarily disclose
evidence. So it's not like a trial. It's just basically they say, all right, this is what we
have. This is why we charge them. You know, he can come back and say, well, this is why you shouldn't
have charged him. And then the judge makes the decision to send it to trial. So we go in there
and the detective that was on the case was a woman. And she was recently promoted. I was her first
murder case ever. So that made me a little nervous in and of itself. And I think a lot of that may
have been what led to this. I think maybe it was a little overzealous. Now, who does the detective
work for? I'm assuming the the the sergeant or the whoever would be the top of the county police
department. Because even if she says, hey, I want to charge this guy with murder, somebody above her
still had to sign off on it. You know, the detective is not the end all be all. I understand
like it's you and your lawyer. And then there's who is the one trying to not the judge, right?
There's like a prosecutor or a state prosecutor. Yeah. At the time, there's a solicitor. They have
solicitors where we're at. And that's what that's their job. So the solicitors on one side of the
table, we're in the courtroom, the solicitors on one side of the table, me and my lawyers on the
other. And they're trying to just, you know, lay out their reasonings for the charges. We're debunking
them, but they also can call witnesses at this time. So who, sorry, I didn't, who is the one
that decided to charge you with murder? Well, the detective at the end of the day is the one
that decided to charge. Yeah. All her reports wrote up that they were going to, the evidence that
they looked at, they concluded they were going to charge me with murder. So the detective is the
one that wrote up the report to charge me. I'm not sure who above her like signed off on it.
I'm sure somebody did. Maybe sheriff or someone on those lines. What about that report made it
not self-defense? Well, that's what I was, that's what I'm going to get into here in the preliminary
hearing, because in the reports that they give the pathologist or the pathologist gave, it said
the bullet path doesn't indicate like a close contact shooting. Well, the bullet path, at least
one of them, because there were three, but one of them, it enters here, you know, in accidents,
it exits lower. So how you get that is if I'm coming at you, you know, at an attack mode. So
it's like, if you're like this and the bullet goes straight through, it's going to enter higher,
but exit lower. It's still in a straight line. It's just got a different entry and exit point.
But bullets don't always go in and out of people in a straight line, right?
They hit bone. They can go, God knows where they can bounce around inside the body. Yeah,
there's a lot of different ways that trajectory can get thrown off. This one going through and
through actually proved my point more than some of them that would go a different way,
because it was because she was going down and like charging at you. Yeah,
because when he was coming back at me, that's when I fired. So it all lined up. But the way she
wrote the report was like it wasn't, you know, it wasn't a conclusive to be like an a close
contact shooting. Another thing was blood spatter. So during the night, everything happened,
I had on a white long sleeve shirt. Forward spatter is kind of like backwards, but forward
spatter is what if I shoot you would come out on to me. I'm pretty sure I'm saying that right.
Backspatter is what goes. No, I'm sorry. It's backspatter. If I shoot you backspatter is what
comes on to me. Forward spatter is what goes out that way. They were saying that there was no blood
spatter on me, which to them indicated that we were not in close proximity to each other.
But the guy was wearing three shirts. He had on like a regular t-shirt, then like a wicking,
like under armor type shirt, and then like a longer sleeve shirt with a hoodie over top of that.
So the likelihood of any blood spatter coming out of three layers of clothes is going to be very,
very minimal, if not straight up non-existent, because it can't travel through all that. And
again, like I said, these were steel jacket rounds. They're not like hollow points that's
going to make these massive holes. And so that was another reason why they sent me charged
me. They said the bullet path didn't line up to be a close contact shooting. There was no blood
transfer on me from the shooting, nor from me delivering life-saving measures. And I was just
like, well, how are you going to say that I didn't go put that towel on him? Because there was nobody
else in the house. It's just me and him. And when the arriving officer comes there, the towel is
literally sitting on him. So I'm like, you know, there's nobody else that could have put that
towel on him but me. And I can't help that there wasn't any blood. You know, it just happened to
be that way. I know some crime scenes, there's a shitload of blood. This one, there was none.
And so that was really it. Like there was no other, you know, they didn't bring up anything about,
well, text message this and text that. That was really like it that they brought up. And, you
know, my lawyer's fighting back with his reasoning. And the judge even says, she looks at him and she
goes, there's not a lot here. She said, but given the situation, I'm going to bind it to trial. So
that means we're going to trial. So we leave there, kind of regroup and figuring out what to do. And
Andy already told me, he said, if they bind it to trial, he said, then the first thing I do is make
a motion for a Duncan hearing, which is basically a hearing for self-defense. And when you do that,
like in a regular trial, the burden of proof is on the state to prove you're innocent.
When you're doing a self-defense, it's flipped. The burden of proof is on you
to prove that you acted in self-defense. And so that's really what we were planning on. And at
this point, this is like, you know, like I said, July, we didn't hear anything else. We never went
to trial again. We never done anything else. Recently, I actually started a podcast myself.
It started getting some legs on it, and I had the opportunity to go to New York
to talk with some guys up there. So I'm on house arrest this whole time. Like that was part of
my bond. Can't have guns. So we can't have knives. Did they never get, they didn't give you any sort
of idea when the trial would happen? Nope. No idea when it would happen. My lawyer said
that he was going to make the motion for the Duncan hearing. Obviously, in this point in time,
they're still running tests, getting stuff back because sled, like, I'm sure everybody knows
this, but it's not like fucking CSI Miami. You don't get shit back in a half an hour.
Like I think it was almost a year before they got reports back from sled. And in those reports,
it showed, well, South Carolina law enforcement division, because I'm in South Carolina.
Um, those reports indicated that not only was he on prescription pills because he's diagnosed
with PTSD from the army, he was also on steroids. And he was also three times illegal
limit alcohol. Now, and one thing I'm going to back up just one minute because I forgot about
this. In the preliminary hearing, when the when the detective was on the stand, she lied
on the stand at least five times that we had documented proof of. So one and even some of
them were men askew, but they were still lies. This is after the trial starts. Yeah. Well,
this is that preliminary hearing that I was telling you about. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I skipped over that,
but it's important. She's like, uh, in the her reports that she wrote, she says she collects
two vials of steroids from a trash can where he was at. Well, in the preliminary hearing,
she says there was only one. She also says that when the arriving officer got there that I was
so distraught that I locked the door to the house. Never happened. Like he walked right to
fucking and I'd just come out the door. I think it was still open. Did you question her when she
said this? I can't. He, uh, you, this is a part to where like, this is where it's, uh, it's,
it's difficult in the preliminary hearing because you can't question. You can only,
you can't question like that. It's not a time to like debate facts. It's just presenting the
evidence of why. So it's, it's really frustrating to hear him say shit that you know her lies.
And she even said that there was a, uh, uh, they were talking about, you know,
history of violence. And he said, well, he has a history of violence. And my lawyer was like,
what? And he's like, Oh yeah, he's not allowed at the school to pick up his son. I'm sitting there.
I'm like, what the fuck? And so what happened? This is like a real crazy part. My wife works at
the high school in, in our neighborhood. She's the guidance council there at some point during
our separation, you know, obviously no separation go at 100% smooth. So we were arguing. She overhears
my wife arguing with me. She goes on her own and makes a report saying, you know, overheard
an employee arguing with husband, just making note if something was to happen here at the school.
That's it. She was the one who did this. A school resource officer. Okay. So she makes this report.
She didn't tell my wife. She spelled my wife's name wrong on the report. She didn't notify the
principal. She just wrote it and turned it in. So that's the report that this detective was talking
about. So after this is over, like, I didn't even know anything about it. Cause I couldn't tell my
lawyer. I'm like, that's bullshit. But you know, he don't, he don't really know exactly what's going
on. So we go to the principal. This is after the preliminary hearing. And we go and he's like,
you know, what is she talking about? And he's like, I've got no idea. He's like, I've never even
met that man. He's like, I've seen him a few times at functions for the school because he had a
daughter that cheers here. And she said, I've seen him sometimes come and pick up his son because
the middle school or the elementary school where my son went to school, it's basically all right
there in the same area. They have a tunnel they walk through and they can come out at the high
school. So I would go over there and pick him up. And he said, if anybody tells anyone that they
can't come on this campus for any reason, he's like, number one, that's going to come from me.
Number two, there's going to have to be documentation to back that up.
Reasoning why there's a lot of stuff that has to be done. And he's like, I've never had any
dealings with him. I've never known him to cause any issues. And he says, as far as I'm concerned,
if he pulled up here today, I would have no issue with him coming in the building, getting his son,
whatever it is, because I would go up there and, you know, talk to my wife in her office.
So she made it seem like in the court that I was this violent dude that wasn't even allowed
to come pick up my kid from school, which was totally false. Even the report that was written
didn't even say that. So the detective had a bone to pick with you. For some reason,
or either she was just new at this point, she might have fucked up and she was trying to,
you know, make herself look good in there. I don't, I don't know what she was doing.
I mean, I didn't know this woman. I didn't know her from Adam. I don't know if she was just trying
to make her case look good. Well, why would a detective purposely change facts?
That's, I've been asking myself that question for about five years.
And technically, you're supposed to be in trouble for that. Like, even though that wasn't a trial,
it was a preliminary hearing. But like, if you lie under oath, they're still under oath
during all this. If you lie under oath, like that's grounds to, you know, be fired, possibly even do
time. Is it possible that detectives like that can get promoted from, from making cases like this
more of a slam dunk for a prosecutor? I think that's generally how it is. Because that's
how it is for prosecutors in general. I mean, that's how they move up the ladder. You know,
they move up the ladder by putting people in prison. And, you know, it happens a lot. People
want to make it a black and a white thing. I don't really subscribe to that theory. It's a green
thing. It's a money because if you don't have the money to get a good attorney, then you're stuck
with a public defender. And that public defender is really nothing but a glorified plea bargain
broker. And, you know, you take somebody that doesn't have the availability to get a good lawyer,
right? Say they're in my shoes. And you're looking at 25 to life, bro. Like, if you just take this
plea deal, maybe we'll plead it down to involuntary manslaughter, get 10 years, good behavior, do
out in seven. Somebody's going to take seven years as opposed to possibly trying to fight it
and get in life in prison. You know, and that's, and that's for all cases. That's for drug cases,
armed robbery, whatever it is. And to their defense, the public defenders don't have the
availability or the resources to fight it like a dedicated paid lawyer would do. And that's where
I was kind of fortunate because, and I even skipped over this too, I'm sorry, but when I got out of
jail, the company that I worked for, they fired me immediately right off the bat,
new course deal. I wasn't supposed to miss any time. Well, when I went back,
they said, hey, come up to the office. So when they said that, I was kind of like,
I know what's about to happen. And I go in there and they actually told me, he's like, you know,
we got to release you because of these charges. And he's like, you know, where are you at right
now with all this? And I told him what was going on. And he's like, well, I can't imagine what you're
going through. And I'm like, well, fuck it. Imagine getting fired on top of it. Like, you know,
I could give a shit now. Right. You know, I mean, you know, it's supposed to be innocent
until proven guilty, but that's definitely not the case. But the fortunate thing about them
firing me was I was able at that point to get into the 401k. I mentioned to you earlier about
I was going to give my wife a piece of that. The good thing about this company is they would give
you probably 10, 15 grand into your 401k each year from part of their profit sharing. So I've
been with the company 14 years. I had a pretty decent amount in there. So when I got fired,
you're able to dip into that. That's how I was able to pay the lawyers off. And I paid them up
front. So it was like 50,000 to take the case. Another 15,000 to get started and get the ball
rolling. And then we'll get to the point here shortly where we had to bring in CSI experts to
investigate stuff. All those things just, you know, that that tally started adding up really
quick. But had I not been able to get through that money, you know, I'd had to do probably
charge it to credit cards or whatever the case may be. So getting fired was almost like a blessing
in disguise. Kind of a little bit because I was able to get into that money and give it to them.
And, you know, that after that next step, when we were going to be preparing for the immunity
hearing or Duncan hearing. Yeah. So you said they never told you when the trial was going to be.
And in the meantime, you started a podcast. Yeah. In the middle of that. Because see,
there, there was tons of sending it to trial, but the Duncan hearing would go before the trial.
Okay. So the trial would basically be me on trial for the state. But if you file the motion for
that Duncan hearing, then they have to be seen first. So one during that time, that never really
got scheduled. He applied for it, but they just never answered him. So in the meantime, yeah,
I started a podcast and like I said, it grew legs and had the opportunity to go to New York.
So I had to get permission because this whole time, all these years I'm on house arrest. I can
only leave the house for very specific things. Definitely not allowed to leave the state,
at least without telling them where I'm going, what I'm doing, when I'm coming back,
all those types of things. And when I asked them to go to New York, you know, they actually agreed
to it. They was like, yeah, he can go by this time. The solicitor that was on the case originally
had left the office. They had another lady come in. She was only there for a very,
very limited amount of time. Then she was gone. Then they had a third one. So a lot of the people
that were really involved in the case were no longer really around. Even the detective,
she had messed up so much after what happened with my case. She's now a school resource officer
at an elementary school. Yikes. Yeah. So not a very desirable position from someone that was a
detective. No, definitely not. So it comes time where I got to go back to New York a second time.
So again, I got to go back to getting permission and doing all this. And I just told my lawyer,
I'm like, dude, what are they doing? Let's get this thing in for the hearing. Now,
I do think COVID probably pushed it back slightly because my lawyer didn't want to do anything via
Zoom or Skype. He wanted to be in person. He's a maestro in the courtroom. That's how he does his
business and his work. So that probably did have something to do with the delays. But we actually
took a risk because the CSI guy we brought down, he came to the house and he lined up,
I'm sure you've seen it on the shows where it shows like the bullet tracings with the red laser
beams. He lined up from the wall back to the refrigerator, then back to the corner where I
was sitting or standing. And it was perfect. Like everything lined up just like how I said it was.
And that was like a big key. That was kind of what my lawyer was like, well, this is what we need.
This proves you were where you were when everything happened. And so that was like key. And we had
been holding onto that for a while for the Duncan hearing, but it never happened. So after that second
trip to New York, we asked the prosecutor if we could come there and show him everything we had.
Like just lay it on the table. And he said, I think you'll be so overwhelmed by what we can do
if we take this to trial or to the preliminary, to the Duncan hearing, you want him to do it.
And he was receptive to that. So we went, me, our investigator, my lawyer, and the CSI guy.
How often did something like this happen? Not very often. He told me, he said,
I don't know that I've ever done this. Because typically in court cases,
they're, you're supposed to, each side is supposed to disclose all their evidence, right?
Yeah. And that's the thing is, I think the evidence was there, but with him being new,
maybe he wasn't, you know, up to snuff on everything, you know, because the solicitor at
this point is the one that's actually going to be trying the case, that's trying to basically put
me in jail. That, that is going to be their job. The solicitor. The solicitor. Is that the same
prosecutor? Yeah. Same thing as a prosecutor. He's the one that's going to be trying to do this.
And who is, is this guy a known guy, like a popular, like a well-known guy?
This guy here was actually a recently promoted guy. So he was pretty new. And, and I'll say
that hats off to him for being receptive to this, because the first guy that was on it,
I guarantee you, if we'd offered that to him, he wouldn't have took it. He had been around for a
while. He kind of had a reputation of being, you know, a hard baller. And I don't think he would
have taken it. This guy being new, I think he was receptive to the idea. And maybe he looked at it
and seen that things weren't adding up. You know, I don't know his reasoning. You know, I never got
to actually speak with him one-on-one, but when he was receptive to it, we flew down the CSI guy
from New York. And again, every time he flies down, like I'm having to pay for that. Right.
Every time he comes out to the house, I'm having to pay for that. And so it's just,
the bill is steady racking up. And so he comes in, we take our investigator, my attorney, and
then the forensics guy, and we go to the police station and we play a video. And the video was
a PowerPoint of him saying, okay, well, this is every reason that they said they were charging
him. Like one of the first reasons was, you know, Mr. Williamson said there was a struggle,
but we seen no signs of a struggle anywhere in the house. So the first arriving officer that
come in that day, they freeze frame a photo of the kitchen when he goes in. You see a shot glass
knocked over on the floor and he zooms in on it with a arrow. Then you see like a, like a Manhattan,
like a rocks glass, you know, something drink whiskey out of pretty heavy. It's knocked over in
the corner. And then there's some other stuff moved around on the stove. So obviously that looks to
be signs of a struggle to a knocked over shot glass on the floor, knocked over one on the counter.
Then he goes and does a slide show about the blood that I was explaining to you earlier
where they said their reasoning was, you know, there was no blood transfer on him. Well, he
scientifically breaks down with tests that have been done, actual studies of, you know,
sometimes there's not even blood transfer on bare skin, let alone coming through three layers of
clothes. So there's not going to always be blood transfer. And then the last one was obviously
the angle of the bullets. He was talking about, you know, how I was standing. If the guy is in
a crouched position, then it is going to have that type of angle to it. And then of course,
he brings up the fact that, you know, the guy was on steroids. He was three times illegal
lemon alcohol and prescription medication for diagnosed PTSD. And at that point, you know,
you could tell that they were taking the information in. They weren't just like,
you know, blowing it off, not paying any attention, looking at the ceiling. They were taking it in.
Yeah. So the next step is they go and see what evidence they have on me.
Well, I'm not allowed to go in there because it's their evidence room. And obviously that's
kind of like a breach or whatever. So I gotta go lawyers able to go in there. Yeah. Yeah. My
lawyers could. I just couldn't. So at this point, they're coming to my house next. They're actually
coming to my home. So there's like, so during this whole thing, you're living in the same house.
Yeah. I never move. Oh my God. Never change refrigerators or nothing. You still live there
now? Yeah. You still live there now. I had, I don't, don't ask me why, but I had this deep
feeling that at somewhere down the line, that kitchen could really come into play.
Don't tell me it's your background for your podcast. No, no, no, no. Fuck, no, fuck, no.
Not a lot of people even knew this happened. Like for years, nobody that I had done podcasts with
even knew this was going on. Okay. And when I started telling them, they were like, holy
shit. It would be pretty appropriate. But they, that was kind of the idea, you know, when I was
able to tell this story, if I could kind of get some legs up under my own program, then when I
could tell my story, more people would look at it because I think it's important because you don't
really see guys like middle-aged blue collar workers, you know, gun carrying, law-abiding
citizens wind up in this kind of situation. And it's just like, it's not the norm. And then I was
arrested. You know, it's all on the news. People are always making assumptions, especially when it
came in the middle of like a separation. I heard stories from, oh, he came in from work and caught
his wife with somebody. I'm like, well, start with, we didn't even live together. I was out of
work because I had my back surgery. So like, you know, these, these shit y'all are coming up with
is fucking insane. But it was just, you know, you had to deal with a lot. Like it was a lot of pressure
for this whole time. This is going on. This just got dropped in November. So this is like four years
and six, seven months of not knowing, not knowing what's going on. Like isn't two months ago? Yes,
as in the end of or the end of October of last year. So you're talking four years and nine months.
But that's this, the story that I was telling you is kind of why it got dropped because I leave
the police station. I go back to my house. My investigator is the first one to get here. And
I ask him, I'm like, so what did they show you in the evidence room? And he's like, nothing.
I'm like, what? And he's like, yeah, nothing. There's nothing there. And so they come,
they come in, I go over the scenario that I played out with you here tonight.
You know, they're looking, they see it and seeing that kitchen kind of really puts it in context
because I can explain it to you, but actually standing in it and seeing it is a whole different
ballgame. And, you know, you can tell because the way he fell, he was a little bit away from
the refrigerator. So if you figure your picture, you're standing him up on his feet. He's right
in front of me. I'm automatically backed up into the corner. If he was any further back,
he'd have been laying up against the refrigerator when he fell. So it kind of proved everything.
Once they seen it, I think it really kind of put it in perspective for him. And it was still a
couple of months after that, before we finally got a drop. But I did get the call. My lawyer
called me one day. I was at work and he's like, you know, what's going on? I'm like, you know,
nothing much at work. And he's like, well, how does it feel to be a free man? And I was like,
what? And he's like, yeah, you're free. Charges are a drop. Case is dismissed. And I was just like,
holy shit. I mean, it was the best feeling I'd ever had in my life for that to be
lifted off of me, bro. You have no idea. Wow, man. Yeah. What did that feel like?
And like the world had been lifted off of me. And I mean, like, you know, I'm a very outgoing
person anyway. Like I like to talk. I like to go out. I like to communicate, socialize. So for
like to put somebody like me on house arrest is damn near a prison in itself. I mean, it was awful,
which it was part of the reason why I started doing the podcast because it gives you availability
to talk to people and conversate. Were you able to talk about this stuff on your podcast? Even
I've never mentioned it on my show at all. Really? Not one time.
What kind of stuff did you talk about? What on mine? Yeah. We talked crime. I was thinking of
doing like a true crime podcast, but then actually looking around like everybody apparently decided
to do that during COVID. So I was like, well, that's going to be hard to gain fucking traction.
Saturated market. Yeah. Very saturated market. So I put an entertainment on the end. So I called
it crime and entertainment and I've been able to talk to so many people, man. I've had Tommy Chong
on the show. I've had Tom Sizemore from Heat, Natural Born Killers on the show.
You got him on there? Yeah. Yeah. Really? Wow. Yeah. It's crazy. A lot of the guys that you've
interviewed like Tim McBride, Larry Mazza, Jeff Turner. We've interviewed a lot of the same people.
Matter of fact, one of the big cases that I really am starting to kind of do more of,
I didn't want to let it, let those get out there too early because I had such a passion
when talking about it, but it was wrongful convictions. And you just interviewed or not
just, but you had interviewed a guy named Jeffrey Deskevit from New York and I just had him on the
show and like there's no way or no, probably nobody's going to learn law faster than somebody's
being accused of something they didn't do. And so that's really kind of what started the idea for
the podcast because I was like listening to wrongful conviction podcast. That's where I heard
that one. And then that kind of led me into like the true crime aspect of everything. But
you know, I'm real big on wrongful conviction cases because it's, it happens way more than
people realize. And luckily I was fortunate enough to not have to be in jail this whole time because
I know that happens with some people. But you know, imagine being in jail for five years for
something that you didn't do or seven, eight. Jeffrey was in there for what, 16 years?
Yeah. I mean, for something that you did not do. And I mean, I felt a portion of that. I don't
even want to try to put myself in his position. There's people on death row. Yeah. They get
exonerated for DNA being botched. And he made a great point and it was on your show and I'll
bring it up. He made a point. He was like, you know, the percentages of people that are incarcerated,
I ain't say it was like 12 or 13%. They said, so if you put that on planes,
like I said, only 12 or 13% of the population. Yeah. Of the prison population are innocent.
So, you know, if you tell somebody, well, you know, plane crashes, you got a 13% chance of
your plane crashing. You think you're going to see if any people flying, right? But people don't
pay that no attention because a lot of times it's largely kept under the radar. It's largely
kept quiet. Prosecutors are immune to anything. So like they have prosecutorial immunity.
And again, I want to reiterate in my case, the prosecutor that, you know, finally put this
thing to bed. I don't think he had any. Well, I know he didn't because he was the one to put
it all together. No malicious intent to begin with. And I don't know if the detective was
malicious or just not seeing it with a full set of eyes. I don't really know. But to me,
it was clear cut man from the jump of you had a guy that was pissed off, that he was getting
booted out of a relationship and he, he was pissed and nine times out of 10. I'm sure anybody that
you tell the story to a test, if somebody's not where they're supposed to be and something happens
nine times out of 10, they're the one with the problem. And it was just like to me, I didn't
see how it took four and a half years to get to that point. Unfortunately it did. But now,
like I really want to become an advocate, especially for people that have been wrongfully
charged or wrongfully convicted, because it's costing me a shitload of money, man. I'm probably,
I'm probably like knocking on the door like a hundred grand in the hole. I was fired,
like I said, for my first job. Were you not able to get any of those expenses back?
Not so far. Do you guys have any plans to try to sue the state for your expenses?
I'm trying, but see the thing is they're, they're, they're slick in the way that, you know,
it works because the dismissal letter is wrote as such. So it goes, you know, while there was,
what's the word, the wording they use, while there was a reason to, reason to charge, they
didn't think it would be sufficient evidence to take the trial. So that makes it difficult for
somebody to sue because with them being enough evidence they think to charge, there's a wording
for it. It's escaping my mind right now. I can't, I can't even think of it for some reason, but
because they wrote it that way, it makes it difficult because being malicious isn't necessarily
the same thing as being incompetent. Right. So it makes it a little harder. Now, you know,
obviously I'm still looking into the possibility of being able to recoup some of that because
at the end of the day, it's like I've had to spend a hundred grand on a lawyer. I've had to,
you know, I lost that job. I got a second job. It happened so quickly, you know, with me getting
fired and getting to that job. That guy didn't run my background. I think he thought coming from
that company, you know, there's no reason to. And so I get hired at a sign company like Welton
for, you know, to make fabricate signs going good, you know, decent money. They never asked me about,
you know, why I was, you know, if I got fired or whatever. Matter of fact, I don't even think I
told him I got fired. I think I told him I quit. But we're like six months into this job. Right.
And I did tell them that I used to work there. They come in and was like, oh, we just got a
big contract with your former employer. We're doing a sign out there. I'm like, who? And he's
like Newcore. I was like, fuck. I'm like, of all the places to get a sign and sure as shit,
they went out there. One of the guys that worked there mentioned my name. Oh, you know,
we got a guy that works in our place. Do you just work out here? What was his name? Wade? Oh,
yeah. I remember him. Whatever happened with that case? Has he beat it? Case, what case? Oh,
he killed somebody. And so like it started traveling around the job. I know the boss knew
because when we would do jobs for like Air Force bases and stuff like that,
you had to have your background run before you could go on there. And whenever those come up,
like they never asked me to go to them, but everywhere else, they would ask me to go. So I
knew he knew. Don't they wipe that shit off your record? It is now. Okay. At the time,
it wasn't. It was on there's pending. Right. Yeah, because the first the first job I went to to try
to get after that, I interviewed and I told them everything up front, everything that was going
on. Do you know any of the stats on the number of deaths from that happen every year from self
defense and like what happens to the people that end up doing the killings because of self defense?
Like how many of them get stuck in this loop that you got stuck in? Oh, I can't imagine. I've
actually never looked into those numbers, but I would imagine it's, it's staggering because it's
not a lot and it affects everybody else. Like I said, I had a kid in middle school and even now
to like every time he goes to a new grade or whatever, somebody in there, because of this
community that we're in, there's all kinds of people that are, you know, kind of a melting pot.
Nobody's from there, but everybody knows everything because of social media and Facebook groups
from the neighborhood. Somebody go, oh, yeah, ain't your daddy got it shot somebody. And so he
has to deal with it. You know, obviously there's stigma with, you know, my daughter, she was a
senior in high school when it happened. So like literally a month or two after this, she graduated
high school. So it kind of, you know, had a black cloud hanging over that. And during the middle of
this, and this is, this is actually really blow your mind kind of how about how this county works.
My neighbors, my neighbor's neighbor, so two houses down had a pit bull and then escaped
and got into my yard and really messed up my husky. I told you I had and we had to take him to the
vet. Well, this dog apparently bit a couple other people in the neighborhood. He had actually even
bit my son about a year prior, but it was a very light bite. They were playing basketball in the
yard and it was almost to what you maybe could brush off his playful, but it did break the skin.
He didn't like maul him or anything, but I told him, I was like, all right, you know,
don't go back down there and fuck around with that dog. So when he jumps to fence and attacks
a dog, this time I'm pissed because it was like, you know, a full on just neglect on their part of
keeping that animal locked up. Well, somehow or another, the news got wind of it and they contacted
me on Facebook. I guess somebody told them and they contacted me on Facebook and was like,
Hey, we want to do a story on this dog because there's a lot of kids in your neighborhood and
it could be potentially dangerous. And I'm like, well, absolutely. I don't have a problem with it.
I said, but I'm not going to do it because I wasn't home. I said, you can interview my daughter.
So they come out the interview, my daughter, and the article gets posted in the Facebook page
for my neighborhood. Well, I'm looking at it and I figured something would come up if somebody
would make the connection. And this lady goes, I'm not sure how, but I'm pretty sure this girl
is somehow connected to the guy that shot a man in his house and then claimed self-defense and
then went and hired one of the best defense attorneys in South Carolina. And he says,
he says the self-defense, but the evidence paints a very different story. I'm just like,
who the fuck is this? Well, the more I learn, I'm not saying anything. I'm just reading these
comments as they're getting posted. It's a public defender in the county that I work,
that I live in. She works for the public defender's office and she's on a public
form like this saying this. And somebody even said, you know, this is not very professional.
Like, I don't know if I'd be saying this. And she goes, well, maybe it's not the place to disclose
these things, but I've had a few cocktails and it is what it is. This was before the trial. So
I'm like, if we don't went to trial and like, you know, thank God it didn't happen this way,
but if I like, I don't went to trial and found guilty, like that would be grounds for a mistrial.
You know, she's put, she's putting it out already that, you know, he says it's self-defense,
but there's a evidence points. Otherwise, I don't know what fucking evidence she was looking at,
because that's the thing is what they have right now when they drop this at the end of October
is exactly what they had the day it happened. Nothing else has been collected. Nothing else
has been, you know, taken in all the testimonies that they got from people that were involved
that night, which weren't really many me and the other guy. I mean, he testified exactly
what he, what that guy told me earlier tonight. Oh, I'm looking for chip because I'm gonna kill
them. And a matter of fact, because it happened so early in the morning when they went to talk to
him that morning, he tells them, I heard it on the recording of it. He tells them straight up,
he's like, listen, man, I go and tell you, I'm still drunk, like as he's talking to the cop,
and they never came back to him. Wow. Never come back to him to get another interview.
And he told them that were the first time he saw them earlier in that day when he came to your
house. I'm looking for chip because I'm gonna kill them. Yeah. Told him that. All that. And
they still decided to press forward. I don't know what they seen. I don't know what, what it was.
Well, the reason I asked about the stats, if you were familiar with any of the stats is because
every, I've heard, every case like this I've heard of something similar, not as to the extreme,
where they tried to charge you with first degree murder and went so far to do it.
But like the other thing that comes to mind is, I don't know if you're familiar with Gucci Man,
the rapper. Yeah. He went through the same thing where he was sitting in his house with like some
prostitute or something and two guys busted in the door with guns trying to rob him for his jewelry
or whatever. And he literally had a gun on him and just shot them both, killing one of them.
And he had to fight the case for a while and he ended up beating it. Yeah. And I mean,
I had, but they tried to charge him with first degree murder. Yeah. Getting robbed. And I think,
I think the baby had something go on like that similar to that too. The rapper, a little baby.
Yeah. I'm not familiar with his, but yeah, I did hear about that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I trust me,
man. I looked up all these self-defense cases and like I got kind of an expert on, you know,
like what qualifies as self-defense, what, you know, cuts it off. So like you can't initiate
a fight and then start losing and then shoot the guy because then you can't claim self-defense.
So like, wait, wait, say that again. So like, if me and you're at a bar, right? Yeah. And I jump on
you and, you know, start hitting you. You start it. And then you start reversing it and getting the
better of me and start whipping my ass. I can't pull out a knife or a gun or anything and kill
you because once you start something and initiate it, you lose the right to self-defense.
So that's an interesting thing for your case though. How could they have said,
how could they have proven that you didn't start that? Even though he was bigger than you and
coming out, you, I'm curious, how come they didn't try to come up with something that said,
oh, well, Chip could have easily started this. And they, maybe they were planning on it. I don't
know. But I mean, at the end of the day, there wasn't anybody else to get a story from. Yeah.
So they had to, I mean, take my word. But I mean, again, all the evidence backed up what I said.
You know, everything lined up perfectly. And like I said before, I was,
I was in a fortunate position where I didn't need to lie. I didn't need to say, okay,
I need to say I was standing here or over here. I've done this or I've done that. Like everything
that happened played out just the way it really happened in real time. And, you know, luckily,
everything worked out in the end. But I mean, it's just the lasting impact of this is like,
you know, I wake up every, for years, I woke up every day feeling like there's a piano
hanging over your head because, you know, life in prison, even if it was 25 to life, 25 years,
I'm probably going to die in there. Like, you know, they're not going to give you parole.
And so it's like, there's like a piano just hanging over your head every day, not knowing.
It's so hard to focus on anything in the future because you don't know if you're going to have
a future. You don't know what's going to go on. And, you know, we had, we had contemplated moving.
We really did. But then, you know, there's a lot of stuff with that. And then if, you know,
if you got to come back to do anything as far as court or talk with the lawyers, that could be,
you know, you know, a little bit more aggravating to deal with. So we decided to stay and, you
know, I'm in the same house and same fridge. Yeah. Same. Oh, I kept that fridge. I wasn't
leaving that fucking fridge. I knew at some point that fridge might come into play. I'm glad you
kept the fridge. Yeah. It's still there now. I might replace it now. Not everything's over.
But I mean, it still works. I mean, yeah. I mean, it's like I said, I just had a feeling that a
lot of that stuff was going to come into play. And it did. And, you know, the crazy thing was
like when it, when they give me bond that first time, all they really did was make me like a
built-in babysitter for the neighborhood for like a month, because everybody knew that I was home.
And everybody that knew me and like knew me personally would send their kids over there.
Cause this was like right after the summer. So they would send their kids to my house to hang
out all during the day. Cause they knew I wasn't, you know, I couldn't leave the house. Like,
well, you can go over there. I know it was dad's home. So it was like, you know, the ones that
knew me knew what happened, but the other ones that made their assumptions. I mean, they still
do it. Like even to this day, if somebody hears a loud bang or something like that on the community
Facebook, you'll see them say, oh yeah, probably another gunshot was probably the neighborhoods
there. You know, they had a shooting there and then somehow another, my name always gets brought up.
And one person even said one time was like, yeah, I remember when that happened. I think it had
something to do with the dog and they related it to the dog situation, which was totally separate.
So I don't even respond to half of that shit after time. I mean, I just, I just keep my
mouth shut because it's, you know, if people are going to make the assumptions, they're going to
make the assumptions, but I knew at one point in time, I would be able to sit down and tell
my story, which is kind of like what I'm doing now with you and Matt. And it feels good to finally
get my side out there for cause you have to be quiet. Like while all this was going on, you can't,
you want to defend yourself, but if you go out there and you know, you don't want to say something
in the heat of, you know, anger and then it looks bad on you. Oh, look at this guy. How mad he's
getting. You know, he must have done it. And so you have to really tread water and be careful.
But at the same time, now that it's over with, I want to bring light to how easy an average guy
can find herself in this situation from just a detective not looking at things the way it
should be looked at. Yeah. I mean, I would be lying if I said I hadn't thought about that situation,
like if it ever happened to me, like what would you do? Like that's something you want to know.
You want to know like how you're supposed to handle it. Like what do you, and the scary part
is is once the cops get involved, you don't know you're, it's all out of your control. Your freedom
is gone. And you don't know what's going to, what's going to happen. And I've heard so many stories
about, you know, the misconduct behind the scenes with police departments and sheriff's departments
and the prosecutors. And it's not pretty. It's scary because there's so many things that can go
wrong. Yeah. And that's, you know, we spoke about this earlier. That's the, that's the
fucked up part about this whole thing is that's how they move up in their job. Like, you know,
to me to move up in my job, I put out good products and we can sell more steel and,
and stuff like that. But for them, they put people in jail. And now I'm not one of these people to
say it's every single person in prison is innocent. I know there's some people that definitely deserve
to be there. I mean, the guy was in there where they said his sister on fire. So yeah,
probably need to go to jail for a little while. But there's a lot of people in there that don't
deserve to be in there. And I can see easily somebody getting jammed up and charged with
something that maybe they had absolutely nothing to do with, but they don't have the money to hire
a lawyer to fight it. So they wind up having to take a plea deal. Then they go, they do their time,
they come out, now they're a felon, they can't get a job. So then they really have to do something
criminal. And then they get caught again. It becomes a vicious cycle. And the prosecutors
don't care because at the end of every night, they can go home. They go home to their beds.
And even if it's brought to light, then maybe they done something wrong. They still don't give a
shit because they got prosecutorial immunity. It doesn't matter. I mean, they'll give you 100
years and you get, that's a good for them. That's a checkmark in their box. That's a,
that's something they can add on their resume. I took this guy off the street. Doesn't matter
if he's guilty or not. Well, I'm thankful for you coming and telling the story, man. Yeah.
Yeah. I appreciate it. And there's a, there's an insurance that I really need to figure out
how I can be the spokesperson for these guys. It was called carry guard. And it's basically like,
so if you pay like 20 bucks a month and you find yourself in the situation, 20 bucks might get you
50 grand worth of coverage. For like an attorney. Yeah. They'll bond you out. Then they'll get you
an attorney. You get like 30% of it up front. I think it is what it is. You get enough to get
you out and get the attorney started on the case. Then if you win it, then the rest of it is paid
to the attorney to pay off your legal fees. Now, obviously if it goes above 50, then you're
responsible for that, but there's different tiers of it. You know, you can pay 40 for,
you know, 70,000 or whatever on up the ladder. This is a partnership with the NRA and this
company called carry guard. I need to be there. NRA carry guard gives you the protection you need
if you've ever, if you, if you were ever involved in a self-defense shooting. Once you sign up for
the NRA carry guard insurance, you'll have 24 seven, 365 access to the members only hotline for
incident reporting and emergency assistance. You got some good fucking eyes. I can't read that.
They must make a shitload of money with that. Yeah. Well, it's like, if you, if you have them,
and then you were in my situation, you're instructed to like, if, so if I would have had it,
I would have called 911 and be like, my name is Wade Williamson. I just shot somebody come to
this address and hang up the phone. That's all you're supposed to say. And then they handle
everything else. And like I said, you only get, they only pay it in full. Obviously if you beat
the case, so if you don't beat it, then you don't get all the money of it. Isn't there a situation
where like, say if you're in your car in traffic, right? And you come and there's a guy with a
road rage who is like beating down your window, like trying to get into your car or like trying
to open your door and you have a gun, it concealed in your car. I don't think you need it. Do you
need to have a CWP to carry it in your car? No. Well, you, you, I know it's different per state,
but I think the ruling is a CWP, you can have it anywhere. Right. If you don't have a CWP,
it either needs to be in your glove box or the concealed area in the car console. Yeah. Right,
right, right. So if I'm in traffic and there's this guy who I cut him off or whatever, and he's
fucking get out of his car and he's trying to open my door, beat down my window. And if he hasn't
gotten it got in yet, from what I've heard is that you're supposed to call 911 first, be like,
look, this guy is trying to get in my car. If he breaks my window, I'm going to shoot him and kill
him. Do you know if that's true? I know, I know the castle law protects you at your house. Yeah,
but your home and it extends to your car and work. Oh, does it? Your place of employment. Yeah,
the castle doctrine is for your home, it's for your vehicle and your place of employment. And
see, that's the thing is people always have these things of, oh, we need to call 911. Sometimes you
don't have fucking time to call 911. I mean, this shit just goes off quick. Like you said,
if somebody's up there beating on your window, you're not going to have time to make a phone call.
Yeah, I mean, it's just, you know, it's just something you're going to have to do. And I've
followed so many cases like this since mine. For instance, the kid, what's his name,
that assault rifle, the one that he used to assault rifle, the young dude. The baby? No, the,
when the riots. Oh, in the riots. Yeah, what was his name again? Kyle? Yeah, Kyle Rittenhouse.
Yeah. So like, I mean, I followed that one like real closely, because like anything big like
that in the news, like my eyes are kind of glued to see how juries are going to look at it and,
and stuff like that. And I mean, you know, I feel as though he was justified in that, I mean,
in using it. Now there's some other ones that, you know, maybe not like there was a,
one I was looking at where there was like surveillance video. The only thing with,
with that one, I feel like, yeah, I have to like refresh myself on the whole story again.
The only weird thing about that is like, if I'm that kid's parents, why the fuck am I?
How old was he? He was young, man. I'm not sending my like 14 year old or 15 year old
out to the fucking streets during riots with a AR. I think the basis of it was something along the
lines of his family owned a business where all this shit was going out. So he was there
at the business to protect it from looters. I believe now don't quote me on that. But I think
that was the reason why he was there. He wasn't just out in the street, you know, for the hell of it.
Right. Yeah. He was actually getting chased down at that point, I think.
Yeah. Yeah. And like I said, it's been a minute since I've kind of refreshed the facts on there.
But, you know, again, you know, like that, that's where it becomes, it can go from,
from murder to self-defense really quick because I watched a video where this guy was
at a Walmart and like he assaulted this guy and he hit him first. Well, then that guy knocked
him down, knocked him on his ass. So when he had, when he hit the ground, he pulled out a gun and
shot the guy. So that's not self-defense because like I said earlier, he initiated.
Just because he knocked him down, right? Yeah. Just because he knocked him down.
And the guy didn't even look like he was going to continue to, to jump on him. I mean, it was just,
just did it. Did you see, I'm sure you did, during the whole riots from George Floyd at one point,
there was a famous photo of this guy and his wife standing in their driveway as these people were
marching down the lady. She had the pistol like this and the guy was holding the AR with his
finger on the trigger. Yeah. Yeah. That's another thing, man. I mean, like the gun laws and everything.
You're not allowed to brandish them like that. Yeah. I think there is rules and a lot of that
does go from state to state too. From what I understand is you're only allowed to pull your
gun out when you're about to use it. Like if you pull your gun out, you have to use it. You
can't just use it as like a scare tactic or something like that. Yeah. I mean, I've seen videos
online where people like, and I think they do it more for attention, but like they'll be walking
around with a damn, you know, AK on their lap or whatever, or around their strap or whatever.
And the cops would be like, you know, what are you doing? But they technically have the right
to have it. Oh yeah. I've seen that. I've seen the guy, have you seen the guy's YouTube channel?
Yeah. He's like, I'm going fishing and he's got a fucking machine gun or a strap.
And I'm just like, really, I mean, you don't really need it, you know, like that. But
again, gun laws too, they're trying to outlaw the AK-47. Awesome. Pull up the video. It's on
YouTube. There's a guy, I forget what he's called. He's called the Florida, Florida fishermen who
he goes fishing with guns and he walks like down a public sidewalk, like passed a police station
with an AK strap to him or an AR-15 strap to on purpose just to see because the cops is so crazy
watching it because the cops are just like, they don't know what to do. Yeah. All of a sudden,
there's like 13 cops surrounding him. And he's like, what am I doing? At the end of the day,
he hasn't done nothing wrong. Yeah. And he knows that. He knows that law. He's just trolling. Yeah,
he's trolling. That's exactly what he's doing. He's trolling. Yes. The armed fishermen pull up a
video of him real quick. You can see that. This one right there, that one right there. I think
this is in Tampa. Yeah, full screen it. I can see why all these cops are coming out. This is good.
They're not going to show. We're not going to find the one I was looking for. I can see the concern.
It's definitely concerning. If you're taking your kid for a walk in the park and there's
a guy walking on the street with an AK-47, I mean. Yeah, I'm going to leave. Yeah, absolutely.
But it's crazy that there's laws that protect you from walking from the pier
to a fishing pond three blocks away in the middle of a city with an AK strapped to you. I mean,
it's wild. The gun laws. Yeah. And I actually, you know, once I got arrested, they took my CWP
back or I got a letter saying they revoked it. Well, since everything's been expunged,
I got it back reinstated. So they were able to give it back to me and I had to go back to my
lawyer's office and get all my guns back because I had to give them all the other guns that I had.
That was part of the release, you know, my conditions of the bond. So like when I,
when everything got dropped, I had to go up there and pick up like there's like eight guns out of
his office and he's like, I hope nobody's not looking here going out the front door. And I had
to go up there. We were like bringing them out one by one, putting them in the car. But I was
so nervous touching them like for the first time just because I hadn't touched one in so long. It
was just like, oh, shit. And of course, like, you know, it's kind of a little bit of PTSD there
too. Like the first time you put your hands on one because the last time you did, you know,
something major happened. And have you like relived that experience at all? Does that
moment when you shot him haunt you at all? It does. It does a good bit. And, you know,
I still try to look at it through the mindset of like I said earlier, you know, I didn't kill
someone. I killed someone that was trying to kill me. Yeah, for sure. And that's, that's kind of
what I have to really keep reiterating to myself. But yeah, definitely it bothers me because I mean,
I did not want that to happen. You know, it's unfortunate that it played out the way it did,
but you know, you can't help but to relive some of those moments. And even though it was adrenaline
pumping and everything that was going on, some of those images and everything, you know, they're
always going to be there. And that's something that even after it's over, everybody's like, oh,
well, now you can breathe. Yeah. But, you know, the memories are still there. So it's so much
impact on your life. And, you know, like I said, even I don't necessarily know how much it bothers,
you know, my son, he says it doesn't bother him, but he's 13. He's not going to tell me if it's
bothering him anyway. But I know that he had to deal with it, especially like right after it happened.
I mean, it was in that neighborhood. That's like, I don't even know that another murder has ever
happened in that neighborhood. I know there's been some suicides, but I don't think anything
like that has ever happened. So of course they're going to bring that up repetitively every time.
So it's kind of one of those things to where you can't even let it get brushed under the rug.
Anytime something happens, it's going to be brought back up again.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, the open carry laws, I think are pretty good here in Florida. I think
you, I mean, you have to have a CWP. I think that's a smart way to do it. I don't know what
these laws are in South Carolina, but I know in Texas, anybody can just carry open. I don't,
you have to have any training or whatever. But my thought on it has always just been like,
look, if you got to take a test to drive a car, you just have to take a test to be able to
fucking carry a gun on your waist. Yeah, I agree with that 100%.
You should at least put that much effort into understanding how to work the fucking thing
and how to use it and understand the laws before that, you know, you just carrying that thing with
you. Well, like mentally, like I said, when it happened, I reverted back to that class because
they teach you not only do you have to like a little shape of a body or whatever, you got to hit
so many rounds in there to pass, at least the one I did. You had to do that. Then you do like a
written test and it tells you all kinds of different scenarios of what is legal, what is
considered self-defense, then what is passed upon as self-defense. So all that's things that I think
responsible gun owners should want to know. You know, I don't want just any, any old dude with a
gun that's never fired it or never know how to work it and being able to carry it because that
is when things that can come dangerous. And they said even in that thing, what you alluded to
standing in front of his house during the rides with the finger on the trigger of his AR.
Yeah. I mean, fuck you sneeze and you're probably going to blow your wife away, you know what I mean.
But like you said earlier, if you pull it, they tell you do not pull your gun under any circumstances
unless you're going to use it because if you pull it out and then second guess or wait,
that's when you could, you know, get it taken from you or any other things can happen. So they say,
you know, if you're going to pull, if you're going to go to that point where you pull it out of,
you know, wherever you got it at, you better be ready to use it because at that point that
obviously whoever you pulling it on is going to see it and they're going to try to take it from
you and use it on you. Right. So that's, that's what they instill in you in those classes. So I
definitely think it's, it's logical and probably anybody that carries one should probably go take
that class. I agree, man. Thank you again for coming, man. Lots of valuable information and
incredible fucking story. I'm grateful for you being here and telling everyone, tell everyone
that is listening and watching where they can find your podcast and whatever else you're doing.
Absolutely. We're a crime and entertainment. We're on YouTube, crime and entertainment.
We're on all the audio platforms as well. So Spotify, Apple, Google, Stitcher, all that good
stuff. I'm trying in the works to get a documentary made about this to open really open eyes of just
how easy this could happen because I think it's just, it's something that happens so quick that
really turned my world upside down that, you know, as I start researching this happened to quite a few
people, but people just don't realize and I don't think they are aware of how, you know, often it
happens because it's not like, yeah, it's not like, you know, every single day, but it's enough to
where, you know, you don't understand like what we've talked about here today, the impact it has.
So we're going to try to put together a documentary, me and some of the guys that I've worked with
from New York and hopefully that's coming. I've had a few people reach out to me about writing a
book on it. So we'll see where it goes. But, you know, again, to going after to do all this again,
it is, it's reliving it some, but it's also therapeutic because I think it's good to talk
about stuff and get it out. So at the same time, you do have to relive a few moments, but it's also
therapeutic. But, you know, just to help get the word out, I think we're going to really try to
push the documentary out to do that. So I'm not, I don't have a timetable on that yet. But for right
now, you know, like I said, crime and entertainment, we drop something every week. There's usually
something for everybody on there, man. We've had mobsters, porn stars, actors, writers, you know,
everywhere in between. So I'm sure there'll be something on there for everybody if they want
to go take a look at it. Hell yeah, man. Well, I'll link it all below. Thank you very much.
I appreciate it. I appreciate you having me too, my friend. Absolutely, man. My pleasure.
