All right, Chris, Clem. Yes. Thanks for coming down, man. Pleasure meeting you. Pleasure
meeting you. I'm glad to be here. Thanks for getting me down here.
So explain to people that are listening what you do. What is a border chief?
Yeah. So I was a Border Patrol agent. I was the chief patrol agent of Yuma, Arizona, my
last two years of my career. So I'll just kind of back it all up. I joined the US Border Patrol
in 1995 and retired New Year's Eve, 1231-22. So I've been retired a little over a year.
Okay. It was, you know, the Border Patrol, you know, really, it's federal law enforcement. Our
job is to safeguard and protect our borders. And really, it's between the ports of entry. The
ports of entry is where people come in lawfully, where, you know, come in from Mexico or Canada
or the airports, the seaports. But in between those ports, anything and anyone that crosses is
breaking the law. And it's our job as agents to secure that border. We're really tasked with
interdicting, apprehending anything and anyone that comes in. And then we can either prosecute
them for criminal violations, or we can administratively remove them through an immigration
proceeding. Drugs, terrorism, terrorist weapons, all sorts of contraband, and obviously people,
which is making the headlines today, the amount of people that have come in through. And it's just
changed so much over my 27 and a half years of my career. But, you know, I retired after, you
know, again, I had done my job. I had been all across the Southwest border, Washington, DC. I
was the deputy chief in New Orleans. But it was the chief in Yuma when Yuma was one of the busiest
sectors in the United States. And yeah, we can dive into all that.
I have so many questions, but I'm going to start from like a 30,000 foot view of this. And we'll
kind of drill down as we go. Sure. Why is it important for us to have a border and border
security? Yeah, so border security is national security. It's America's first line of defense is
that border, whether it's the Mexican border, whether it's our coast right here in Florida, or
our northern border. I mean, it is the civilian law enforcement role to protect that sovereignty
right there on our borders. Militarily, that their job is outside of the United States. They're
protecting us around the world. But in order to maintain our republic, to have a sovereignty, we
have to secure our border without a secure border. Every town becomes a border town. Every state
becomes a border state. And you're seeing that those impacts today. So yeah, you have to have a
secure border to have a country. There's no other country in the world. I mean, no country exists
without its own border. And so we have to maintain that. And there's a lot of people that want to
talk about open borders and people have the freedom of movement. That's fine. You just come
into the front door. And that's what I like to tell people is like, you know, we just want you to
come in through the front door, be invited, or at least knock on the door and let us see who you
are before we let you in. When you come in the back door, you sneak in. That's what bouncers are
for. So you guys are like the bouncers of the border to make sure that people trying to break
in unlawfully don't get through. Exactly. How much border is there? How many miles of border is there?
Yeah. So on the southern border, going from like Brownsville, Texas out to San Diego,
it's about 2000 miles of southern border. Northern border is about 3000 miles. Now the coast, I mean,
you really have to, that's all, that's your, if you did the entire coast, the United States out,
it's going to be thousands of thousands. But we usually focus on the southern border and the
northern border. But yes, we do have coastal landings here in Florida coming from Haiti and
in Cuba. You know, obviously that's very prevalent on the southern tip here. But really the main
focus that most people are concerned with as they should be is that southern border and the vast
northern border. Now, what is the difference between the southern border with Mexico and the
obviously, I mean, other than like the obvious that there's no giant wall, it's more of like a
trail, the border between the United States and Canada? Yeah. Because if you look at the photos
of it, I don't know, see if you can find photos, there's like, it's like, it looks like this dense
forest with just like this carved out walking path. Yeah. They call that the slash on the northern
border. That's just a slash cut right through it. So a couple things. Geographically, it is so vast
and very sparsely populated on the northern border other than when you have like border towns,
Toronto, Windsor, you know, Vancouver, places like that on the northern border. And you have
arduous conditions up there in some areas, this mountainous, like you just mentioned,
thick trees, then there's wide open high mountainous desert up there, like in Montana and places
like that. Right. But you don't have, you don't have the threat picture. You don't have a country
of Canada that's, you know, controlled so much by cartel and transnational organizations. Now,
that's not to say we know that there are bad actors in every city around the world, but,
you know, it's not like Canada is immune to it. But you don't have that volume, although there are
some uptick in numbers coming in from Canada. It's not, it's not the source country. It's just
some of the areas where they'll fly into and come into the United States, where Mexico,
everything's coming up from the Southern Hemisphere, coming in from Central America, flying
into Mexico directly and coming in. Plus, you have, you know, just a very well-established
business network by the cartels, by those criminal organizations that are profiting handover fists
by moving people and things into the United States. So, I mean, it really is becomes a,
it's just the danger and threat level that's coming in from Mexico versus the Northern border.
Aren't the cartels actually flying people to Canada now and like walking them right
across the border? Yeah. So, they, you know, they're really good about figuring out loopholes,
right? So, we have a lot of visa waiver, different programs where you're not required to visa.
Yeah. So, they're flying them from Mexico direct flights to Canada and then they're,
they're coming south. And that's what we're seeing, especially in Swanton,
Swanton, Vermont. That sector has seen just this fiscal year. I think, I think the latest report
was like the, in the last six or seven months, it's almost been the last 10 years combined. How
many people have entered through that part of our Northern border? We focus on the sexy stuff,
which is a Southern border because it's just the mass numbers. But we cannot, if we get, and when
we do get a hold of that Southern border, we cannot ignore the Northern border. There's no,
there's no rest for the wicked here, right? We've got to get that taken care of because
you already, like you mentioned, they're flying them in. So, we've got to work with Canada to
make sure that we can screen before they even get off the plane or leave the airport. If not,
then they're coming into the Northern border and we're going to have to address those, those
vulnerabilities up there as well. How many border patrolmen does it take to monitor that entire
Southern border? And how is that, how is that even, I can't fathom?
Yeah. Yeah. So, it's a great question. So, there's just a kind of level set, and I probably should
have mentioned this earlier. There's 20 sectors across the United States. There's nine on the
Southern border, eight on the Northern border, and three on the, in the coastal. And, and there's
just over 18,000 U.S. Border Patrol agents. Okay. There's a couple thousand support personnel
mechanics, administrators, staff, things like that, but about just over 18,000 currently sworn
Border Patrol agents. To give you a perspective, I think I looked at the numbers a few months ago.
New York City has over 40,000 sworn police officers. So, it just handled in New York,
and obviously you're looking at a huge population, but just kind of giving people perspective.
There's about 16,000 of those Border Patrol agents on the Southern border,
and that leaves the rest on the Northern and the coastal, maybe about 15,000 in the Southern,
and two on the Northern and, you know, thousands spread across. Numbers are probably off a little
bit, but in Yuma as the Chief, there was 950 of us to include myself. And as the Chief, you weren't
out there cutting sign and tracking people every day. That would be a luxury. I was in the office
most of the time. We had 126 miles of border. We had five stations, three operating stations,
and then Intel and special operation stations. So, you divide that about across five stations,
all working, you know, three to four shifts a day. On a good day, you may have in a 24-hour
period 150 to 200 agents patrol in that area, and, you know, we need probably in a place like Yuma,
another 1,000 more people. Across the Border Patrol, we've asked for upwards of 25,000. We think
that that's the right number given the force multiplier that infrastructure can provide,
technology can provide, but that really enhances our Southern border. It also pads up the Northern
border and our coastal border. So, that's been the sweet spot between 22,000 to 25,000. That's the
high end would be 25,000. We asked for that in the final budget going into 23,000. We asked for
3,000 to 5,000 more agents. We got 300. Didn't even keep up with the tradition. Yeah. We need more
border patrol agents. There's no doubt about that, you know. Now, who's responsible for providing you
this stuff, this budget? Yeah. So, we formulate the budget and it goes into, wrapped up through,
into the president's proposal and in Congress appropriate. So, that cut was made by the White
House. You know, Congress did, Congress funded the 300, but it really comes down to the executive
has to ask for the budget. When in American history that you're aware of or in your career,
has the Southern border been the most secure? When was the best time for the Southern border?
Again, not taking politics into a play of it, but it's a matter of fact. It happened under
President Trump. Oh, really? Yeah. We had, the border patrol in May is going to be 100 years old.
We're celebrating the 100 year anniversary, the Centennial anniversary of the border patrol. We
started in 1924, May 28, 1924. And, you know, what I like to tell people is, while President Trump,
when he was candidate Trump, you know, campaigned on build the wall, okay? But the wall was so much
more than a wall to us border patrol agents. It was, yeah, the actual steel, the wall that
we physically needed, but it was the sensors, the cameras, the technology piece that came with it
and the access roads. And that is a culmination of that, you know, at the time, a 95 year old agency.
That's the culmination of somebody like me who had at the time, you know, 22, 23 years in,
who has worked his career saying, hey, we need more requirements. Every president that I worked
under, to include Clinton, I was hired under Clinton, had leaned forward on border security.
Now, clearly, President Bush had, we had 9-11 happened, so there was a lot of focus on national
security, border security. We started really updating a lot of our infrastructure in the forms of
barriers, whether it was pedestrian barriers or vehicle barriers where people couldn't drive
through the desert. But the technology packages, all that started building and gaining under,
under President Bush. We also doubled the size of the border patrol. There was only 5,000 of us
in the early 2000s. We went up to 10,000 by the end of 2010, I think it was. And now we're, again,
we got up to close to 21,000, then we're back down. Obama built a lot of wall. A lot of people
don't remember, or some do, some don't, but there was a big push going into Obama's second term.
He wanted comprehensive immigration reform. And the Republicans said, well, you give us border
security, you build us our fence, you secure the border, we'll give you immigration reform.
And so he did a lot of- That's what Obama said.
Yeah, yeah. And he built a lot of wall. He did a lot to secure the border.
Then they got into arguing definitions of secure and control and the whole thing kind of fell
to pieces. And so he went with executive actions and really started creating his own immigration
policies and just kind of shut down a lot of the security apparatus that was being built.
Like what kind of policies was he- So a lot of it was, he started the, which isn't a bad thing,
is that DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, basically anybody that had been in
the country prior to January 1st, 2014, we would defer prosecution. So that's a pull factor,
because then people get to come in and then they claim there's a lot of fraud involved with that.
So there was a big mass of people started showing up at the border because they're like,
hey, we've been here, we've been here. And it just, it's very difficult to kind of explain.
But at the end of the day, when you have lack of consequences, when you're encouraging people to
come in and they're going to get to stay, you start seeing this big, big push of people.
So- Her walls are falling apart.
So, hey, you know what? So is the southern border, right?
But, you know, so we started seeing this big influx, right? We had a bunch of people,
unaccompanied children showing up, just, you know, again, literally unaccompanied minors
at the border that was overwhelming the system. Family units, mainly from Central America and
Mexico showing up under Obama. That's what I think motivated President Trump to say, hey,
we've got to secure the border and we've got to build a wall. So getting back to
what candidate Trump ran off of, very easy to say, build the wall, it could get a big crowd going.
Make Mexico pay for it. Yeah, all that stuff, right? All those great talking points.
It really kind of ginned up the, his, his, oh yeah. Got people fired up.
Oh yeah, he was bumper stickers, there was all that. Well, when he became president,
you know, he, it took a little bit of while, but the transition team's like, hey,
there's more to it than just building the wall. Wall is, he's going to slow them down,
but we actually need the technology, we need the personnel, we need policies and all that stuff.
And, you know, he had a, he, I would say not so, he had, he had the house, but they weren't
really supporting a lot of the things he was doing. There was all that infighting going on.
And then he lost the majority. So he struggled at getting the appropriations and he made a bunch
of emergency declarations. And again, build the wall was a slogan, but it was so much more to us
board of choice. It was what, it was years of requirements that are finally going to be met.
So let, let the politics and the media do all the talking, but for us, we were, we were actually
seeing results of our needs being met. We started seeing, I think there was just over 570 miles of,
of new wall, 30 foot wall put up. We had technology in the form of lights, camera, fiber optic,
optic sensor systems. All this stuff was like whiz bang that was working for us. We were loving it.
Access roads, a lot of people don't realize that we don't have access to some of the areas of our
border because it's, it's like a jeep trail or it's a, it's a, it's a dirt road, but then
a monsoon season, big old storms come in, flash floods, wipes away. There'll be weeks before
we can get to repair it. So all weather roads was important. At that point, I would say the end of,
end of 18 into 19 starting 20. So late 19 into 20, things were all coming to play.
The, the steel walls have been put up. Technology was turned on. We were deploying more and more
assets out there. We had policies like the migrant protection protocol, which is remaining in Mexico.
That was closing the asylum loopholes. We were adding, we were prosecuting target areas that
were, you know, putting consequences to repeat offenders. All that was making sense. And just
to kind of back that up with some numbers in 2019, the border patrol arrested 905,000 people.
All right. 905,000 arrests. That's approximate. 2020, it dropped to 405,000. We shut that down.
I mean, we had a 100% decrease. I mean, went from nine, almost a, you know, just over 900,000 to
just over 400,000. Wow. That's why I say it was one of the most secure borders we've ever had was
right there. Now it dropped because the wall was there, because of the barrier people couldn't get
through. And the, that was, that was one part of it. And the technology, the, basically enforcement
apparatus that was out there, but it was the policy. There was all the people that were coming over
here and getting in the United States, turning themselves over to us and claiming asylum. So
that migrant protection protocol said, fine, if you were going to claim asylum, we'll put you in
the queue, but you're supposed to claim asylum in the first asylum country that you, you come to. So
if you go to Mexico, which is an asylum country and you pass through it and you get here, you can
wait in the line for asylum here, but you're going to wait in Mexico. So we sent them back.
And literally within a couple of days of that going live, the numbers just dropped because people
realized, well, they just closed that loophole because people were flying all over, from all over
the world, passing through multiple countries, getting to the United States, coming into where
they could turn themselves in where we hadn't completed wall construction and then claiming
asylum when, when we were processing. And okay, fine. When they claim asylum, we have to let them go
for a hearing. But under the migrant protection protocol, we said, we did an initial screening
and said, fine, you can be in the queue, but you're going to go back to Mexico and wait.
Right. So we sent them back and they realized, well, this is not what I was promised by the
Smuggling Organization. So, so that, that remain in Mexico is what everybody called it was called
the migrant protection protocol. That and some other agreements with the cooperative agreements
with other countries really kind of put a big kibosh on, you know, this smuggling network that
was bringing people in, taking advantage of the loopholes on the asylum claims. And that, I mean,
those numbers tell that story because, you know, getting back to the question, that's where it was
the most secure because we had the infrastructure deployed and continued construction backed by
strong policies that said, hey, if you do make it through these gaps, because remember, these are
all people that entered the United States illegally. You got arrested during the processing. We asked
you if you had fear of return, you go, yes, okay. Why do you have fear of return to your home country?
Well, I'd like asylum. Okay. You can wait for it in Mexico. And when they realized that's not the
bill of goods that they were told was going to happen, people stopped coming. They stopped coming
and those numbers just dropped. So that was a policy thing that stopped those, that stopped. So,
what typically happens in, you said, what year was it? There was 900,000?
That was 19, 2019. 2019, there was 900,000. 2020, there was 400,000. So what is the definition
of an arrest? Like what typically happens when you arrest one of these people?
Yeah. So an arrest is when they have entered the, we've taken them into custody. We've got our,
basically put our hands on them. How do you typically find them?
So what's happening in these large numbers, they're given up. They found gaps in the wall
and they show up in mass, 50, 100, 250 at a time and they just sit there.
Oh, really? Yeah. And so Border Patrol has to come get them.
Why do they just sit there?
Because they know that they're going to be taken into custody. They're going to be fed.
They're going to be offered clean clothes. They're going to have access to medical.
They're going to be taken care of. It's going to take two or three days to process.
And because we don't have any place to put them, they're going to be let go.
So let me, let me just kind of walk you through that one more time. Border Patrol is supposed to
arrest and process and we turn them over to another agency, which is ICE, typically it's ICE
enforcement removal operations. That's where they were supposed to remain detained until
they have their hearing with the judge to determine if they get to stay or they get
removed. When there is no room to hold them, we end up having to release them on their own
recogsments. All right? We call an OR. They're processed. They're, you know, want to see a judge.
They're not from Mexico, so we can't send them back. The migrant protection protocol is no longer
in existence anymore. They get let go. That's where you're seeing these people showing up everywhere.
So they, they typically, ICE can't detain them. They've entered illegally. We have no place to
put them. We're not criminally charging them with anything. It's just an administrative case,
so we have to let them go. Wow. So we turn them over to a non-government organization,
helps facilitate their movement to wherever they're going. You know, just, just to put it in
perspective, when they're, when they're processed, they're processed typically for a notice to appear,
which means they're been charged illegally, entering the country illegally. They are going to go
through a removal proceeding, which means they're going to see a judge and we, they'll tell us,
they'll say they're heading to Philadelphia. We will use the reporting office, will be the
Philadelphia ICE reporting office, where they will check in and their, their court dates will be set.
Some of these court dates are four to seven years out. So if you know that you got a four to seven
year window before you could be removed from this country, you're coming in and you're coming in and
the smugglers are all profiting off all of this. They're showing up at the border, entering the
country illegally and 95% of the people are just waiting for border patrol to show up.
Wow, because they're just going to, because they're going to be cycling through the,
through the system and spit them out and go where they want to go.
Absolutely. And it's, and, and, and paid for typically by the non-government organization,
which is ultimately reimbursed by our federal government through FEMA grants. So
What is the name of the NGO? Well, there's a lot of them. I mean, so it just depends. You know,
there's, there's, uh, you got Catholic Charities. Is the openest society found? What's the Soros
one called? I think that's open society. Yeah. But the, but the, they're actually working in Central
America and Mexico helped facilitate some of those groups that are outside of the country.
But every border patrol sector, those nine on the Southwest border, there are
local NGOs that are helping. And, and, because we don't want to put them on the streets. I mean,
by law, I've released you, I can walk you out the front door to the street. Well, that's not humane
and a town like Yuma, we couldn't do that. We were catching more people than the town had in town
in the population. So we had a non-government organization that stepped up and said, well,
we'll help, we'll help this crisis. I think it's also just important to just to go back
because I kind of jumped, jumped ahead. Yeah. Border patrol is just like the first cog in
this immigration enforcement continuum. Like we're the ones that like can't say no, like we,
we have to catch them if they've crossed. Like if they're, if they, you know, we can't just leave
them out there, you know, ice, for example, and I'm not really here to bash my ice, you know,
cousins, but the investigative teams, they don't have to come out. They can say we can't respond
for whatever reason. Detention can say, well, we don't have enough room. So we're not going to
respond. Other agencies, whether if we wanted to criminally charge them, the U.S. Attorney's
Office can say, well, we don't, we're not going to take the case. So we're still stuck with these
people. And when you're catching now, the average to the last couple of days has been anywhere from
6,500 to 7,000 people a day on the southern border alone. That adds up. And it takes, you know,
a couple hours to process each case. And then you, you can only move people out during certain
hours of the day. It becomes a big problem. And where I'm going with a lot of this is
everybody, border patrol gets is responsible for like one hour. If you put the immigration
continuum in a 24-hour clock, we're actually responsible for about like an hour of it.
But we assume all the accountability, because we're just supposed to catch you
and process it. If you're from Mexico, we can send you back to Mexico. If you're not from Mexico,
you're supposed to go to detention, which would be ICE, but ICE says, hey, we don't have any more room.
So they just, the NGOs take you. Yeah. And they're released because we have to set it,
because we can't keep them. And that's what you're seeing. That said, hundreds of thousands that
have been bossed to New York, Washington, Chicago, Denver, all those things that are happening,
because Texas is the only one doing it right now. I said, hey, we're not going to sit here in our
state. You know, they're not even, they're not coming to Texas. They're going to other places.
So, but all this, what I'm getting at, which to me is the most important piece, is our border
security becomes vulnerable. If our agents are having to go respond to 250 people on the ground,
just sitting there, like, and we have to take care, we become babysitters and transportation people.
When we know that the cartels have directed this group of people to show up in this gap in the,
in the wall, knowing that once our resources respond there, we're going to have limited if,
or any resources 10 miles west of us, and that's where they're going to send the really bad actors,
the narcotics, the fentanyl, potential terrorists, the criminals, the gangs,
because they're going to evade arrest. What people don't want to talk about, and when I say people,
oftentimes it's the, it's the mainstream media's in this White House, is the gotaways.
Under this president, in the last three and a half years, there's been 1.8 million known
gotaways. Okay. By law, under the GEPRA act, and it's government something, I don't remember what
it stands for, but Borbsville has to report, every 24 hours, apprehensions, turnbacks, and
gotaways. So this isn't just some, you know, made up number. We actually have to report
based on what we've discovered, and that's either through visual, we saw 10 people,
we chased 10 people, we didn't catch them. That's 10 gotaways. Okay. We were driving along the border,
we saw the footprint of 10 people. So we saw 20 feet, there's 10 people, we tracked them a mile,
we caught five, we saw five more run, there's five gotaways. Our cameras detected a group
enter, we looked at that, looks like a group of 20. Best guess is there's 20, we never responded
because we couldn't, there's 20 gotaways. That's 1.8 million people. Now, when we've
caught 70, 80 plus people on the terrorist database. Sorry, remind me how many gotaways?
1.8 million in the last three and a half years. It's been basically 500,000 in the last three
years, and then we're about, you know, another 300,000 so far. We don't know who's in that mix,
but statistically speaking, there's going to be people that are just wanting to get, you know,
have been working here, maybe went back south, just want to get back, and they don't want to get
caught, and so they're evading us. So there's going to be those just workers, right? Then there's
going to be, again, the criminal aliens who know that if they get caught, they're going to jail,
the gang members who know if they get caught, they're going to jail, the terrorist,
all the criminal sides, because if you can just turn yourself into border patrol, and you've got
a 90 plus percent chance you're going to be released in a couple of days to go about your
business and may not even have to show up for a couple years to a hearing, why would you run from
border patrol? Exactly. So those 1.8 million gotaways, they're the ones that keep me up at night,
still, like what is coming, what is happening, and you've got- So they deploy the groups of
innocent people to distract you from the people that are committing crimes and that aren't going
to get through? Yep, that cat and mouse and deflection game has been going on since the,
I came in the border patrol, they'd send a group here so they could send the backpackers
running dope or something else. How did you guys try to adapt to that? Did you guys
recognize a pattern there and start to figure that out? So that's actually kind of funny, right?
I can tell you, when I was an agent, a patrol agent out there doing the shift work and pounding
the sand and stuff out there, we would always respond to any entry and I worked in some remote
areas where you didn't have a lot of that give-ups and people trying to deflect you because it was
rugged areas out in the boot heel of New Mexico and far west Texas, that people were just not
there. It wasn't easy for them to just show up at the border in those locations, so you had to work
for it. But as deputy chief and as chief in the sectors I was working, especially El Paso and Yuma,
you know, the border wall is designed to impede or deny entry or control and contain entry.
All right? Because there's areas where we have a river, we can't put the wall in the middle of the
river, so we have to kind of concede some land. So we're controlling and containing any illegal
entries. On a land border, it's right there at the border of Mexico, so we can actually impede and
deny entry in some of those locations. You asked the question, how do we adapt to that?
So I would use the wall to our advantage. Let's, when you'd see these large groups
giving up, we're controlling it. If they're just sitting down, let's wait and see, right? We can
kind of, they're just on the other side of the fence. They haven't tried to go further in,
they're just waiting for us to come open the gate and let them in because it's already on our side
of the border. This is specifically where we had a river border in Yuma and El Paso, so they're
already in the United States, but they just haven't furthered their entry because they can't get over
the wall or they're not in a gap. And even some of the ones that would just sit there in the gap
waiting for us, I had instructed our field commanders, hey, turn the cameras over that way,
keep an eye on them because as soon as you send four or five agents out there and a couple buses,
what happens? 50 people start jumping over the fence and running to the neighborhoods.
So we'd have to kind of, we'd kind of play that decoy game. And I don't want to give up too much
of our, you know, inside trade craft here, how we do it, but that's kind of what we would do is
like we would delay our response because we wanted to create, let the bad guys become vulnerable
because they would get antsy, hey, we got to run this group through. So you track what I'm saying,
it's like, hey, we'll send this group here, we see it, let's monitor it to see what happens
because we know if we go right away over here to the big group, something's coming right behind us.
And so this is typical what's always happened, it just happened in scale.
That kind of was the game for decades. And then in the last few years,
we've been seeing this huge increase. So I want to kind of, I know you got another question on
this, but what I want to kind of make sure that I connect some dots here is I told you what happened
in 19, 905,000, it dropped to 405,000 in 2020. Well, guess what happened in 21? It went up to 1.66
million. And then in 22, it went up to tripled. Yeah. Then it went up to 2.3. It went up to 2.2
million in 2022. And then in 23, it went up to 2.4 million. And we're trending right now,
did I skip your? 21 was 1.66. 22 was 2.2 million. 23, it was around 2.4 million. And we're trending
where this year, if they continue to hold, it'll be somewhere between that 1.6 and 2.2 million.
You're talking arrests. Arrest on the southern border. Yeah. Yeah.
To which what percentage of those arrests are just getting let loose and how many are getting
turned around? Oh, so a good percent of those, 75, 85% of the people that we catch are being
released. Okay. Yeah. So why was that jump? Well, we had a change of administration. All right.
On inauguration day, President Biden signed multiple executive orders. The first one was
stop the wall. This is a very important piece. This is why we're in this situation we're in
today. Remember when I said the wall was just a campaign slogan, but the wall system was our
requirements? Yes. Well, so when he canceled the contract for the, to stop the wall, it was all
those contracts associated with it. So we, they stopped building the wall. They stopped installing
technology. They stopped working on the access roads. I can tell you in Yuma, Arizona, when that
happened, we had all these gaps in the wall that were just where the contracts was going to, you
know, change over. We had, we had camera poles that we couldn't put the cameras on.
We had light poles that we couldn't plug in the lights because that was all part of the bigger
contracts. We had miles of like dredged lines where we were going to install fiber optic cable.
We could, we had spools and spools of fiber just sitting there. There are still, to this day,
I was just in Yuma two weeks ago, stacks and stacks of steel that we could have used to fill
those gaps. So when he cut that off, all the contracts that the button paid for were stopped.
And he ended the migrant protection protocol. He shut down deportations for over a hundred days.
He canceled private contracted facilities for detention and he reduced the daily capacity
for ICE detention. That was a perfect storm. And that's how you go from 400,000 to 1.66 million.
Why do you think they did that? Do you, do you think?
Political spite.
Do you, do you think it's just political spite or do you think that they,
they believe that there is some sort of good they're doing?
Well, again, the simple answer is political because he campaigned on everything against
Trump and he talks, still to this day talks everything against Trump.
But I do think that there is a, there is a larger, more sinister kind of behind the thing,
right? Like, why are, because no country, no country can absorb eight plus million people,
plus the gotaways in a three year span. I mean, it's not, it's not happening anywhere in the
world. Why us, right? So they got to be thinking, oh, well, it's a humanitarian crisis. People
are all refugees. No, most of them do not meet the basic tenants of a, for asylum claims anyway.
So I think there's, there's a part of it. There's a part of people in this administration think
it hates the right thing to do. Okay. And I, and I'm not against immigration. I'm only pro-legal
immigration, not illegal. Then there's a part of it. They're, you know, you kind of, you, you
end up, you know, your conspiracy theorists, if you talk about it, but our brain is designed,
you got to find facts to reason and make sense of something. Well, why on earth would you allow
eight plus million people to come into this country when we're dealing with all the hardships
we're already dealing with? There is a play, or not a play, but there is, there's a conversation
going around and I think it makes a lot of sense. Our census is based on population,
not citizenship. Actually, Trump made it, you had to be a citizen to be counted.
That's been repealed. But that's how you gain representatives. And that's how you can potentially
increase electoral college votes for your area. So by most people that live there, they live there,
but they don't have to be a citizen. Right. So if you have a heavily blue state or blue district
and you can send more people in there and there's a population count and say, hey,
we've had an increase of a hundred thousand people, we need another representative.
Well, it's a heavily blue area, you can get another blue representative. If you can add more
electoral votes by adding to the population, you can swing them. If you are in a purple state
and you can send more people in there and hopefully shift it back to one of your colors,
so there's that theory that's going out there. And that makes a lot of sense because
what some people are doing is like, it's about remaining in power. And if we can control,
I mean, that's a tin foil way on hat theory. But how does that work though? So just because
there's more people living in it. So let's just say, for example, Tampa, Florida. This is typically
a red state, right? It's gone blue before. But if there's somehow, let's just say
a million people from Haiti came here, now the census in Tampa, Florida is a million people
more than it was before. Did those people individually, don't they have to vote?
No, no, they do. When they do a population census and they do a census and realize, hey,
there's been a million people increase, we need another representative. We need more, you know.
But okay, so that would make Florida more red though, right? It would give us another Republican
representative? Not necessarily. It would be who they would give a representative position,
then you'd have a special election and it would see who turns out to vote. And is it going to vote
for the Republican or the Democrat? Okay, you don't add to the color. So if you had, again,
I'll use easy math so I can explain. So if you had a population of a million people here in
this county and you added a million now, so now you got two million. And at one million,
you had five representatives. They do a census and a population, they realize, hey, man,
it's doubled. We need at least two more reps to cover this area. They do special elections and
then people run for those positions in hopes that, hey, if it's red, may not benefit the people
with that mindset. But if it's purple and they're like, hey, if we can get two more blue reps out
of it, we turn this to a blue area. Again, conspiracy theory, there's no evidence out there
other than that has been a lot of the talk lately. Because again, we're trying to find
reason. This is not just about taking care of people that are fleeing a country and coming to
the United States. Try to make sense. Why on earth would you allow this to happen when you've got
when we're 35 trillion in debt, we've got the largest homeless population we've seen in this
country. We've got people dying of fentanyl. We've got hungry children, hungry veterans. We've got
all this going on. We're going to absorb more people. The average Americans paying over $11,000
more a year for the cost to live in. Why are you adding more people to this problem? So again,
just you asked why. You know, I'm like, this is the only thing I can think of is it's a ends
up being a power trip because it does not make sense when you have law enforcement saying,
this is not working. This is a problem. You are making us vulnerable. Then why are the people
in power continue to take us down that road? Again, I'm just trying to make sense of it because
it doesn't make sense to me from someone who gave their whole life to adult life and profession
to securing the board and following the laws and we're just blatantly allowing them to do all this
stuff. I wonder if it has anything to do with population because a lot of people in civilized
nations or civilized, you know, first world parts of the world or in first world countries,
the birth rate has been dropping a lot. And the two things that determine a
nation's power and superiority are wealth and population size. And I know that our population
has been stagnant and dropping, but the one thing that's actually keeping the US population
at least level is all the immigration that's coming through. So I wonder if somewhere, you know,
high up in politics or somewhere that they're maybe thinking about that, like we need to increase
our population because young people are not reproducing like they used to be. You know,
they're living in urban cities and worrying about their careers and not having babies. So we need to
increase our population, which in turn could maybe increase the wealth of the country or our GDP
somehow, I don't know. But I don't know if that's something that... I mean, if it is, then why haven't
they said that? Right. Because to me, that would be a very sustainable theory that the leader of
the free world should say, hey, we are no longer reproducing at the rate that America has and for
order us to maintain our power and standing and our leading freedom in the world, we need to increase
immigration through this. Okay, well, if that's the case, then let's do it the right way so we
don't have all the illegal stuff going on. So again, I have no objection with that theory.
Here's my only concern, just like the concerns with my theory that I'm hearing.
That's not made up by me. It's just the stuff I hear.
Just come in and tell us so we can make sense of it and maybe find a better way so we're not
having people exploited along the way. Because if it is about increasing population so we can
sustain the future of this country, why are we making them go through smuggling networks,
getting exploited along the way, getting raped and tortured, allowing the cartels and the smuggling
organizations to make billions of profit off of people if we're trying to better the country.
See, that's where I'm like, okay, I agree that maybe a good way to go is to increase immigration,
but they're putting people in harm's way to do that. Why not make the lawful process more efficient,
more easily attainable for somebody to come over here if that's the goal? Because then you would
actually have a probably more empathetic country than what you're seeing right now is you're seeing
this erosion of empathy because people are getting tired of all the impacts. If you go to a major
city that's received, you know, Chicago has them lined up area, you look at what's going on New
York City where they're getting five-star hotels and getting debit cards, that's ticking people off,
right? But if there was a reason, a method to the madness, explain it. We don't have to like it,
but at least it allows our brain to start kind of reasoning out this. Right now,
tell them, say, hey, we want to increase the electoral college and more representatives.
Okay, I don't like that, but I get it. Hey, we want to increase the population of this country
because we're declining. Okay, I get it, but at least I can start reason, but they haven't told
us any of this. We're just absorbing it all. You know, my friend Luis Shaparo has been on the
show a few times. He's a journalist. I've never heard of him. He's based at El Paso, Texas,
and he reports on all the cartels, and he goes back and forth and he like actually embeds with
them and talks to them. They trust him. He was telling me that all of the cartels during Trump,
they all loved Trump because he was so hard on the border. And the point of view of the cartels was
it's easier to make more money when there's a perceived obstacle, right? So when all the people
that are in Mexico are trying to come to the US, they all see the media and the news and
building a wall. We're going to buff security. So now the cartels would say, well, you know,
we were charging five grand, but now we're going to charge 20 grand because now we got to get you
across this big wall and it's heavily guarded. So they made more money from the perceived barrier
of the wall that Trump was putting there. So I'm wondering like now that there's less of it,
you know, are maybe they're not making as much money now. So, well, I would say this.
First of all, the key to any of this, the one common denominator is the cartels are profiting,
okay? Yes. People are being exploited and cartels are profiting. It's when I was just again a year
and a half ago, it was five to $15,000 ahead is what people were paying. Okay. And that's just
the typical rate. And that's a big, that's a $10,000 range, but it really just depend because
it gave them some deals. Now, obviously, if you're from other countries, special interest
countries, the price would go up. But here's how you look at that, right? You could have a
super awesome car, all right, that's going to cost you $500,000 and you could pay high
dollar for it if you got it, or you could buy 100 cars for $5,000. Either way, the cartels are
making $500,000. So what I'm saying is under Trump, they're going to drive the price up,
only one car is getting through, but they made their money with it, okay? Under Biden,
they can get a hundred people in at the same price and they've still hit their profit lines.
So it comes down to their profit regardless. What they really love is they love election season
and they love the mainstream media because that's the marketing for the smuggling organizations.
We had the Trump effect is what we called it. When he got elected,
we saw, I don't know if the overall large numbers reflected, but we saw on the ground
the impacts of, oh, you better get in now because he's going to start building this wall, right?
Every election cycle, whether it's midterms, whether it's senatorial, whether it's presidential,
the hype on the border comes up and that's a marketing opportunity for the smugglers to say,
get in now. Come on now. I just don't see where that ends until somebody really grabs the bull
by the horns and says, all right, enough's enough, right? We've got to shut this down
because my big concern here is the national security and the security piece.
Politicians, mainstream media, they like to give us virtue signaling and false choices.
They tell you that if you want to secure the border, that means you're anti-immigrant.
If you're pro-immigrant, then the other side says, well, you must be open border.
I'm trying to tell you is that you should be pro-lawful immigration and you can have your
ideas of why and how and who should come over here, but as an American citizen,
it shouldn't be a political issue to secure our border. I like to talk about our country
should be tall fences and wide gates. The tall fences represents that border security apparatus.
That's the wall where it makes sense. That's the cameras, the lights, the technology package,
the access roads, where the border patrol agents need it. The wide gates is the lawful immigration
piece that this country still needs to continue to flourish as we talked about. If our community
can't provide the labor force, small business owners need to be able to or big business owners
need to be able to find an efficient, cost-effective way of bringing in workers without jumping
through four federal agencies, waiting two, three years and spending thousands of dollars on
an application. Why do we do that to ourselves when there is clearly a need people want to come
over here? We know for whatever reason, there's a lot of unemployed people that can work, but
they're not working. You've got people waiting, trying to come over here looking for a better
life. Can we find that sweet spot? I think we can. I think you take your extreme right and your
extreme left and you put them on extreme recess and you bring some common sense in the middle
and say, okay, small business owner, what do you need here in Tampa? Well, I need this. I can't find
this type of workforce in this area. You can't recruit it around the state or around the country.
No, they're not coming over here. All right, let's get you some non-immigrant worker visa
that would work this. But all of this happens once you secure that border. That's going to
keep us safe. That's going to mitigate the threats that are impacting us, whether that's
gang members coming through here, potential terrorists coming through here, fentanyl getting
in here because the fentanyl, I mean, it's getting brought in from China and it's being
pressed in these clandestine labs in Mexico to get smuggled in the United States and it's killing
people every day. But we have to secure that border first. That's that tall fences piece,
where it makes sense because walls do work when you put them in the right place. When you have
your buddy, Luis, in El Paso, the vanishing point is seconds to minutes in El Paso. They can literally
cross the border and be in a high school in a 200 yard sprint. They can be in downtown,
they can be in an apartment complex, they can be in neighborhoods. So you absolutely have to have
that wall because as I mentioned earlier, it's designed to impede, deny, control claims. You
can slow it down. You got the cameras that's put in there that can call, the agents can
be vectored right in there. They have a better chance of making an apprehension.
Now you get out into some of the remote areas, 10, 20 miles outside of urban and rural areas,
the wall's not going to do anything because if you don't have an agent there,
they're going to go up and over. But you know what, cameras and sensors, drone technologies,
some even higher tech stuff can help us because there's areas out there where they'll walk five,
seven days till they get to that vanishing point, till they get to interstates.
We don't, wall is not going to stop that. It's, you know, they're going to go up and over that
if it's in a very remote desolate area, they still got a seven day walk. But if you had cameras and
sensors out there and you had agents out there on patrol, you can make that difference. So
I don't know any agent that I've known closely or have ever heard that we needed a 2000 mile wall
from Brownsville, Texas to San Diego, but where it makes sense, we absolutely need that.
If we get a new administration at the first of the year after the selection,
the plans are, the requirements are there, the plans are in place, I think they just need to
revamp it to say, hey, do we still need this wall here or do we, can we go with technology?
Where we didn't have technology here, we're seeing a shift in migration patterns,
should we put technology here? I think that's, that plan, it would be so easy to vamp up and get
it done that that would allow people to have a standalone border security bill to secure the
border. And then they can focus on a standalone immigration bill to say, hey, how do we, how
do we regulate what's happening? How do we get the American workforce, whether it's agriculture,
whether it's STEM, whether it's academia, whatever it is, how do we get them what they need?
And then we can go back and figure out how are we going to handle the 8 million that have been
here for the last few years or the 20 million, depending on who's telling you the estimates.
Steve, can you pull up the video that Luis showed us of those guys cutting the fence open
and they were like waving at the cameras? You remember what I'm talking about?
This video is crazy because these guys are like, they're using some sort of wires to like cut the
fence and then these guys like are just piling through it and the guys behind it, they're just
like waving at the camera, like thumbs up, like, hey everybody, how you doing?
Yep, they knew nothing was going to happen. Is that out in Arizona or is that in El Paso?
I don't know, here it is.
Or is that in Arizona? Yeah.
Look at this.
Yeah, I think that's by Lukeville.
So can you explain what's going on here?
Yeah, so...
And look at this guy filming right there.
Yeah, he's taking his own selfie. Look, so he's letting everybody know that he...
Okay, well, let me just... Everybody can see the video. Look, first of all, look at that...
Okay, the agents are close by.
Who are those guys?
That's Bourbon Troyes.
Okay, okay.
Look like. I couldn't see the back of that.
Yeah. Yeah, I think that's actually in Lukeville, Arizona.
That was a big hot spot right at the first end of the year.
So that...
Can you pause on those guys' jackets, those Board of Patrol guys before?
I had something on the back. I wasn't sure if what it said, it's what I was gonna...
Yeah, right about there, Steve. Get ready to pause it.
Yeah.
Nothing was before that.
Yeah, earlier.
So you saw the marking on the bollard there. So those are...
That's 30-foot wall. That's the bollard. It's got the steel and the rebar reinforced.
You have to have like a plasma cutter. You have to have some legitimate tools.
And if you look where they're stepping, it actually looks like it has a...
Where it's had repairs before.
Right there, Steve.
Okay, so that's Bourbon Troyes.
That's Bourbon Troyes.
Yeah, so I don't know where they were on that.
And that, looking at that truck, that could have been the contracting
material or the contractor that's gonna repair that.
So a couple things that I can take away from this video, try to provide some context.
One...
They pour concrete in the middle of those things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's... Yeah, there they are repairing it.
Okay.
Okay, so that's what it was, right? So that's what they're doing.
So they'll... The bad guys, obviously, that's Arizona.
Wow, look at that freaking elevation change.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's wild.
So the bad guys have found a kind of a remote area where they were able to get their...
Whatever tool they had, looks like probably a plasma cutter or something,
to cut that bollard and moved it back and forth.
And, you know, coordinated this whole group to come through here.
And he's just like, I'm sorry, that's what I...
That's a coyote.
That's a coyote. Yeah, I just got paid.
He's recording to let... And sent it to let somebody know, A, they made it through.
B, he's marketing himself to wherever that video goes.
See, you're coming with me, you're going to get in.
Now, I don't know about the concept...
How's that right there?
Yeah.
That's crazy looking.
Yeah, so looking at that, man, it looks like so many areas.
That looks like it could be east of Nogales, Arizona,
going straight up the wall there or the mountaintop there.
There's just so many places on that border that look like that.
And that's another challenge, right?
Because oftentimes the bureaucrats and the politicians in Washington
want to give a one size fit all.
But if you've been to one sector, you've been to one sector
because that's nothing like Yuma.
That's nothing like the Rio Grande Valley.
That's a lot like Tucson.
You know, that's nothing like El Paso sector.
So one size definitely does not fit all.
But what you see here is a great picture.
You see the wall, you see the access road,
you see the camera system and the lighting system.
That is what agents want and they can see this.
What you don't see are agents because they're tied up processing
hundreds and thousands of people that have been going through the border gap.
Now, for whatever reason, they chose that spot.
They felt safe to cut through there, push them through there.
I don't know why they chose that spot, but somehow it had to do with who was controlling
on the south side, who was, was there attention someplace else,
you know, in other parts of the border.
And I don't know if those agents were actually right there when that happened,
or that was just the way the video.
That could have been a cutaway.
Let's watch it again, Steve, from the beginning.
Oh, I got another video.
But even if they were, I mean, once they're here,
yeah, there's allies in Lukeville right there on that bottom left, yeah.
So what's going on here?
This is different, a different part?
So that's border patrol right there.
And yeah, so they're already, so he just stopped him.
That's the coyote on the other side.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this looks like it's right there in Nogales.
It could be Lukeville.
Looks like Nogales.
But notice how they're all, they're people from all over the world.
He's just like, all right, guys, hurry it up, hurry it up.
Let's get this over with.
Yeah.
So, yeah, there's nothing, you know, he's,
There's the coyote making sure he did his jobs and he shows bosses.
I've never seen that video where they're actually just letting him come in,
why he didn't stop them.
He's trying to put something up right now.
Like a barrier to.
He's just trying to slow.
Yeah, why would he be like trying to hurry them up, like get through?
I guess he figured there's nothing, he's not going to stop them.
Like they're already there.
I can't believe that he didn't just, I don't know.
I don't have an answer for that.
I mean, like.
Human traffickers easily getting migrants through the border wall.
I mean, look, if that was me, I would have been,
I would have been like, yeah, that's Lukeville.
See, I've been down there that, I've actually, I know Ali Bradley.
Is that behind her?
Yeah.
Is that those blankets, those thermal blankets?
Mylar Bank blankets.
So I was down there right before Christmas.
I got there early in the morning and actually Ali was there.
And so were some other media folks.
And I, there was 800 people on the ground there.
There was 500, I'd say approximately 500 single adult men.
Just sitting there?
Yeah.
There was probably in the 18 to 35 year range.
And then the remaining 200 to 300 people were a mix of family,
family units, mom and dads and kids.
They just all crossed in the last three hours in a, in a hope similar to that.
And that was happening in Lukeville, Arizona, right before Christmas.
That made a big headway there because there was literally a thousand people a day coming
through there for a couple of days.
It shut down the port of entry in Lukeville because they had to divert all the resources
to support Border Patrol, which kind of ticked off the, the community.
And that's the way to go to Porta Panasco, which is Rocky Point,
which is a pretty very big tourist area.
It's just an hour drive south there to you in the Baja.
And, and so it shut that down.
Everybody goes down there to vacation during the Christmas time.
But because there was so much traffic going there,
they had to divert resources there.
But I, I, I don't, I'm not going to sit there in Monday morning or
quarterback, quarterback, those agents, because there could have been other things going on.
Like they've got, there could be 10 of those things happening all around.
He's like, all right, just, you guys just go get in here.
You're not, you're going to, if I, as soon as I turn around, you're going to come in anyway.
Maybe that's what his decision was.
I, I've, I have a hard time with that.
I would have at least attempted to stand right in the middle of that, you know,
maybe deployed some, some less lethal, you know, some pepper ball or
something to just say, Hey, get back because you're not allowed to shoot them, right?
No, no, you can't shoot them for that.
There's no immediate threat, right?
But you can use less lethal.
You can do some, you know, put some, some, some gas out there
because you don't know who's in that threat, right?
It, you know, it would be a humane way to keep them back.
Well, so you, I mean, you have a right to defend that territory, right?
And again, without knowing, you see the smuggler, he's a mass guy.
You don't know who he is, what is, what he's doing.
So you could do an area of saturation with like, with some pepper ball, which would have some,
not CS guys, pepper spray, yeah, it would be, it would be this, it wouldn't be gas,
but it would be the pepper spray.
And that would just keep people, okay, I'm not, it's irritant.
I'm not going to come across, right?
So you could do that until you kind of got control of the area, until he could assess,
because anytime you have a situation like that, if it's not an immediate reaction,
because you're being threatened, we always, it's a, a stama, stop, think, assess, manage, act.
I would, that's what I would do.
I'd be like, okay, hold on a second, what's going on?
Do I have, do I have the ability to do some area of saturation here
so I can stop, make sure that there's not a threat, you know, coming in.
I don't know who the smuggler is.
I know he's wearing black and he's covering up.
He's got something, he's talking on a phone.
I got people just jumping right through what the heck is going on.
They're not supposed to be doing that.
That they're committing a crime right in front of you.
They've just cut the wall.
Man, what a, what a crazy, but again, this goes back to,
this is what the agents have had to face every day and continue to this day.
I mean, like, I like what, what, what Bobby Kennedy was saying about if he was president,
he would make it the passports free and accessible to people who can't afford them,
right? Like, cause I know what it's like to get a pass.
I've never gone through immigration, but I know it's like to get a passport.
I've gotten like, I've had my passport renewed three times and every time I have to do it,
do it for my kids.
It's a pain in the ass.
It's time consuming.
You got to take time out of your day to drive to the wherever,
like the post office or the passport office.
And it's, it's, it's not easy.
And I can read, right?
And I'm somewhat educated,
but somebody who doesn't speak the language fluently or is not educated,
that has to do all this for their kids and they have to come up with the money.
It's like hundreds of dollars to get a passport.
That's sometimes you got to travel like a long distance to one of those offices.
It's pretty fricking hard.
I think what he was saying is he would make that accessible to all Americans who,
cause then you, then you would know, right?
Then there'd be that, that American document.
You know, you, you only get a U S passport if you're a U S citizen.
So he was trying to, he was going to make that, you know, to where
there's very few things nowadays.
Cause they're even challenging the right to vote.
You know, there's people out there.
Right. Like he was, he was making the argument.
There's, there's people that are really old that their passports have expired,
their IDs have expired, their driver's license, whatever.
And there's, there's lots of different nuance situations where people,
it's just inconvenient for them or it costs too much money for them to renew this.
I don't disagree.
I mean, having a U S passport, you know, why, why should it cost hundreds of dollars for
U S citizens to get that?
I would be in favor of something like that because it becomes that, you know,
people don't like talking about, but that is, that becomes a national ID.
And that's okay.
Because it's saying you are a U S citizen.
And really the only thing that is separating a U S citizen from a non-citizen nowadays
is that right to vote and that U S passport.
Because a non-citizen doesn't get a U S passport.
Right. And he would, I think the other thing he was saying,
I think the point of this rant he went on was that companies,
business owners should be liable for hiring people that have these passports
or have these identifications, right?
You can't just hire people up the street.
They have to have, they have to have this legitimate ID.
But at the same time, it has to be manageable, right?
Yeah. It can't be completely unreasonable.
Like an insurmountable task for somebody that's coming from another country to obtain it
if they're not a criminal or whatever, right?
If they're a good person and they're going to contribute to society,
it should be easy, right?
I don't disagree with you on that.
And that goes back to the wide gates, right?
That way, and I say gates because you're allowed to open and close the gates
to the width that you need because there's going to be times when,
let's say there is a natural disaster
to where we need to give some kind of refuge to people
that we need to open the gate a little bit.
There could be an economic disaster,
like some of the areas that are impacted around the country.
You know, we need to open that gate.
But then you have situations where we've got too many illegals coming in here.
We've got too much crime going on as a result of some of the legal activity.
We need to narrow that gate to strictly just trade and travel in commerce, right?
But that's what you do with the gate.
It opens and closes, right?
And so to me, that becomes manageable.
And that is also something that helps with the overall security solution.
Because now it's a dated, it goes back to many years ago,
40s, 50s and into the early 60s, the Bracero program.
And I've talked about that before.
That's where they made it very easy for, that was basically Mexican field labors,
so the ranchers could hire them and they'd come in for the season,
they'd go right back.
And there was a major reduction in illegal entries, which allowed the
very sparse border patrol to go do their real job to go get
smugglers as opposed to going to get farm workers.
And you had people that were willing to come in here.
I would venture to say that if we truly had the need for the labor, which I think we do,
if we made non-immigrant work visas more accessible, we had a better vetting system
to make sure that we are not letting somebody in that shouldn't be here.
If we made it just covered the cost, no one should have to pay all this money.
You don't have people argue it's a privilege to come in here,
and I do agree it's a privilege to come over here.
But if you're going to contribute to the company in my neighborhood
that's going to contribute to my neighborhood, provide me the supplies I demand,
let's make it easier for that company to get the people so I can have things stocked
so my neighborhood and my needs are met.
I think that, again, we should start with here at home.
But if our workforce is not willing to step up or not able to step up for whatever reason
to fill those gaps, why should we make it almost incentivize the underground world?
Let's expose it, let's tighten it up, let's make it more accessible.
And I know that there'll be a direct correlation to mitigating our vulnerabilities on the border
if our agents are not having to deal with these mass give-ups, people trying to use
loopholes, people trying to gain the system to get over here.
We could go back out there and do the job that we intended to do, and that would secure the border.
I think that that piece gets so conflated of immigration and border security
that that's why nothing gets done.
It just becomes a quagmire because Washington is not about solutions, Washington's about trade-offs.
And when you create that environment to say, I go back to Obama,
I want comprehensive immigration form, Republicans and we want border security.
So instead of saying, okay, well, let's secure the border.
And we're all in 100% left and right down the middle, all in secure the border.
That's done.
Now we're all in, let's work on a viable immigration reform system that makes it right for the people
in this country and the people around the world that works.
But when you turn around and make it, you throw it together, it becomes, well,
I'm going to give you 100 miles of wall.
Okay, well, if you give me 100 miles of wall, I'll give you five more immigrant classes of,
you know, or we'll up the quota.
Okay, well, if I give you 500 miles of wall, would you then it becomes trade-offs, right?
Not solutions.
And that's politics.
And you know who suffers, we the people.
And the ones that suffer the most are the agents, the border communities and the migrants themselves.
Because they're caught into this vortex that becomes, hey, I'm going to,
I'm going to try to get to make my way to the United States for a better life.
Well, I can't do it on my own.
So I'm going to hire a smuggler so they can help me facilitate there.
I'm going to pay the cost, whether it's, you know, real or perceived or actual cost or
some kind of payment plan.
Oh, meanwhile, I thought I was paying a smuggler.
Now I'm caught up in this trafficking world and now I can't get out.
And, you know, bad things can happen.
I had a dude on this podcast a few months ago.
He was born, I think he was actually born in San Diego, but his whole family lives in Tijuana.
And his mom actually has a job in San Diego where every day she's allowed to cross the border.
Her and all these other, all these Mexican national or these people that live in Mexico
in Tijuana, they're, they all just like getting a big line and they all walk through the border
because they all work in like service industry.
It's like his mom, I think, was a made at a hotel.
And some of them, the cartels get to some of them and they get those people to smuggle drugs.
Yeah, that's a problem.
So, you know, that's a typical border community, right?
You have people that work in the U.S., go and school in the U.S., but they live in Mexico.
That happens in every major border town along the border, right?
That's typical.
Right.
That's what the border cross the card, the work visas for all that kind of stuff.
And all those people have been through this immigration process?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, they've got to either, most of them are probably like, they could have been U.S. citizens,
but, you know, again, a lot of times they come over here, they were born in the United States,
and then they, but they're raised in Mexico like your friend.
They could have a work permit, they could be resident aliens, but they live in Mexico.
But there is a process.
Farm workers, there's all sorts of visas and requirements that they've met, right?
Because they're coming through the port of entry.
They're coming in through the front door.
They're being scanned in and brought in every day.
But to your point, the cartels get ahold of them, and they say, ah, we see you get,
come in and out every day.
Exactly.
You know what?
And this is this, again, this becomes human exploitation.
And, you know, not to get graphic, but they'll turn around, they'll basically say, well,
you know what, I've got your sister, and I know where she lives.
I know where she goes to school.
So if you don't carry these drugs across, you'll never see her again.
Or I will harm her in front of you.
I will assault her in front.
I will rape her in front of you to show that I have power.
And that's real.
That's not made up stories.
I mean, you can talk to so many people that have made this arduous journey to come over here,
and the horror stories that they can tell you of what happens or what they witness,
whether it's murders, whether it's rapes, whether it's just assaults, that occurs along the way.
That's a power.
That's a control thing.
And, you know, when you have young women who are taking birth control, you know, traveling
with plan B, all that because they know that the likelihood of being sexually assaulted
to get to the United States is so high that that's what they're due.
I mean, is that the right way to have a-
Is that for real?
That's for real.
That's 100% for real.
I mean, you can talk to any non-government organization, talk to anybody that's
gone through these journeys and what they've seen and what they'll tell you.
And the women are carrying plan B and birth control?
Because they know that they are likely to, the likelihood is there.
Why would you put your kids in harm's way?
Why would you allow that to go on?
And then that's what frustrates me when you hear politicians say,
oh, it's a humanitarian crisis.
You're damn right it is because these policies and you're allowing this exploitation
because you won't secure the border.
You won't address the lawful and efficient means of bringing people into the country
for the right reasons.
So you're giving these people this false sense of this American dream,
so they put themselves in harm's way.
I've got some friends that have done a lot of research and experts in the
Huffington and all that and something that no one talks about that it's ongoing
is even organ harvesting is going on.
And these same groups, people will realize they'll pay high dollar.
I need a kidney.
Well, I need a kidney of a young person and all of a sudden this person has disappeared.
This stuff goes on.
This isn't me embellishing hyperbole.
This is the stuff that happens and this is when it is a profit-making business
and people are being exploited.
That's why you have to send a very clear but kind message that there is only one way
to come to the United States and that's the lawful way through the lawful channels,
not through a smoking organization, not through some guy you met online,
that you go through the State Department, you go through your consul,
and while we do have a nurturing heart as a country, we are that beacon of hope
where immigration is something that has sustained us and should sustain us.
We've got to do it the right way and that's where I get very frustrated,
haven't seen it play out in the political world, haven't seen it for whatever reason
cause great harm to this country by creating vulnerabilities at our border
that they can't get this right.
Why are we having a system in place to where we are allowing people to be put into the arms of
unscrupulous smugglers and trafficking networks and things like that?
That I get it, I would do whatever it takes to take care of my family but I am not going to
willingly put them in the arms of a trafficker that's going to exploit them if there is another
way to do it and I think the other way to do it is to get our system right and send a very
clear message. I'd rather wait a few more years in squalor if that was the case to make my journey
than to put my wife or children in harm's way and that's happening. Danny, it's real.
What is the sentiment on the ground with the Border Patrol agents that you spent your time with
where the different places you were, what is their attitude towards, are they into politics?
What do they think about politics? Are they just, are they all frustrated?
And I assume there's got to be some level of empathy when you're dealing with mothers and
children that are coming through the border or maybe not or do you just build up this callousness
after doing this for years and dealing with hundreds and thousands of people?
Yeah, it's all of the above. We didn't really want to be in the politics of it. We just came
part of it and we saw and I guess it was kind of a roll the dice with the, of course, I was in
leadership positions, members of management, so I was not part of the union. Our union actually
got involved in politics under then candidate Trump and they rolled the dice and won because
they got what they wanted. They wanted that border security support from the President
of the United States and they got it, but that put a lot of things, put us on the spotlight.
You know, then it became, we became a political football for people.
Exactly. That's what I'm saying. That must be frustrating to be a guy on the ground,
spending your time every day dealing with these people in real life and then you just see people
using it as an optics tool. Oh yeah, you couldn't, when I was in El Paso under President Trump,
especially his last two years, I couldn't, I couldn't turn around without tripping over
a Democratic congressional delegation wanting to come do oversight investigations and see things
firsthand. Funny how I didn't have a single Democrat delegation come in under Biden in tour
when I was in Yuma, but so yeah, we got thrust into the politics. Now it was my job as a deputy
chief and a chief to deal with that. That was my job, but they're also humans, those agents,
right? So they see all this, they understand the impacts when, when appropriations get,
reduce because the house controls the purse strings and they didn't like what the president
was doing. So they reduce funds, they make a big deal. That was a problem. They see it first
hand and I will tell you this, anybody in law enforcement, you might have that, where's that
badge? And you know, if you don't have the heart, you're doing this to save lives, you're doing
that to protect people. Yeah, there's always going to be the bad apples somewhere in the bunch, but
everybody I ever known in this profession, you know, they were, they cared about people.
And you know, it would be, you would get jaded, you would get callous, but then you'd see that
two-year-old that was left in the desert with nothing but a safety pin that says call my grandma
at this number and they kind of reset you and go, man, what the hell is going on, right?
So you'd see that. And that's a common practice. You would see that all the time.
So, you know, they take off that badge and right underneath the badge is their heart. So I have
no doubt that the minimum and the board patrol and any law enforcement agencies dealing with
some of this type of crisis, you know, they're in it for the right reasons,
but it does take a toll on you. Yeah. And especially when you see what happened,
when we were just like, man, this was great and then all of a sudden it was taken away from us
and we're dealing with all these numbers and, you know, you know, we're not, we're kind of
doing our job with one hand tie behind our back. It's made it so difficult and so frustrating
that the morale was just at an all-time low. And look, even as the sector chief, I was,
my morale was low. I was like, how do I go in there and go to a station and visit the command
and the muster where all the agents are for their assignment and try to motivate them when I'm,
this is, this is bad, man. There's not going to be a change. So you do the best you can.
What we did is we actually started investing in some resiliency programs, some mental health
programs because we, we noticed we had, well, it's a fact. I mean, I think there was 14 suicides by
Border Patrol agents in 2022. I had, I had actually one permanent staff member that worked,
worked for me, take his own life. And we had somebody that was detailed in from a visiting
sector that took his own life all in about a six month period because now the, I'm not saying
it was the border crisis that did that, but not feeling like you have a purpose and a mission
where you feel that you're, you know, what you're doing is of no value. You add that to
whatever else is going on in your life, whether it's personal or financial, emotional, physical,
whatever, if you've got a bad home life and then you come to work and you're like,
all I got to do is process these people and let them go. And I know people are getting away.
I got to say that contributed to it. And so the morale was, was, is still low. They're
still very frustrated. I think there's talking to, I still have a very good relationship with
a lot of colleagues and agents. And, you know, I think they feel like, you know,
out of the three presidential candidates right now, at least in the top end, you obviously
President Biden and President Trump, and you got Bobby Kennedy, who's making an impact. They know
two out of the three have said border security is a priority for them. So I think there's a level of
hope like, Hey, if we can, if this administration is no longer in charge, we're going to at least get,
get back to where we were. And that will, that will, that's what's right for us. It's right for
America. And I mean, I just know that. I mean, that's what they, they, they really hope that
there is a regime change come November because how did you mean Bobby Kennedy? Yeah. So that's a
great question. I, you know, was reached out by the campaign last year. I guess it was about this
time because he was interested in going down the border and seeing firsthand, they knew I had just,
at that point, had just retired a few months before. And would I be willing to come talk to him and
just share my experiences with him? And I said, absolutely. I don't care if you're, you know,
a Republican or a Democrat or now he's an independent, if you want to know about the border
and you have interest in being informed so you can be educated, so you can make informed decisions
and influence something that's going to help secure this border. I'm in. I don't care who you are.
So I went to human. I spent a few hours down there with him and just explained everything
about the border and how dynamic it is and how fluid it is and some of the impacts we had.
He asked some of the same questions that you've asked, you know, like, why did this happen? And,
you know, you know, and, you know, and kind of explained everything. What I'll tell you about
that is he spent three days down there and he met with the mayor, the hospital director,
the NGOs. He met with the food bank. He met with the domestic violence family advocacy groups,
a rancher coalition, the county commissioner, the sheriff. I mean, he spent three days down
there meeting with the border community. He went out there all hours a night and saw hundreds of
people just turning themselves in from all over the world. And he said, you know, to me he's like,
he actually thought this was like, this has got to be some far right, you know,
conspiracy talking point. It can't be true. And he's like, oh, it's true. Without a border,
we don't have a country. And this is a problem. And what I tell people and I, you know, when I
speak about him, he saw this through a common sense and compassionate lens. Like he saw solutions
here. He's like, we absolutely have to seal this up. There's no reason why we should have a 400 foot
gap when the material is right there, just because we said we're not going to build any more Trump
wall. Okay, we'll call it Biden wall, but build the close that gap. You're causing, you're causing,
you know, a vulnerability, putting people in harm's way. Yeah, so I've maintained that relationship
with him. He's, you know, he reaches out if he's got questions about the border. And I think that's
great. I think it's awesome that you have somebody that has lived his life on the left side of the
political spectrum, not really doing much or talking about the border. And now you've got
him talking about the border saying, this is a problem. We have to secure the border.
He understands that that is important piece to any sovereign nation. And his vice president
nominee, Nicole Shanahan, she, she did the same thing. I did, I was just down there two weeks
ago. And we, while it wasn't three days worth, but it was a full day down there,
you know, learning about the whole thing. Yeah, that's, that's what we finally got. It took 18
months. What is this, Steve? That gap on the, in the, in the pictures there. Can you pull up the
articles? Yeah, the top right or the bottom left. Yeah, that big gap. Yeah. So it took 18 months
for this administration to approve closing that gap.
Wow. And that's a canal on our side, but what you, on the Mexican side or the other side of that wall
is the Colorado River and the Morelos Dam. And water smugglers, migrants, bandits, don't mix.
And people were coming in through that gap specifically, but it took 18 months
to convince the administration could be closed that gap. And they said, finally they said,
okay, we'll do it, but it can't, it can't be, it can't look anything like the existing wall and
it can't be permanent. So they spent six months going on a contract. It basically took just over
two years for them to close about a thousand feet of gap. And, and the material looks more
like chicken wire and it's, it's, it sits on top of a, it just sits on top of like a concrete
barrier. So it's temporary where all the other stuff, the Trump wall that you're seeing, the big
stuff on the left there, that's like 10 feet anchored into the ground. You're not going to
burrow underneath it directly. Yeah, so. Yeah, didn't, didn't, didn't some shit go down recently
with Greg Abbott in Texas. He wanted to like line the walls with razor wire and some of the
rivers he wanted to put buoys in there with like razor wire borders. And then the federal government
basically said, you got to get rid of that. Yeah, so he did that. So that those old floating buoys,
that's actually a Borbitral apparatus. We've used that in waterways for a long time.
He put that in there. Which I mean, look, if you're telling, if you do it, you're like, look,
there's razor wire, you're going to be shredded. And if you tell him that, it's, I mean, like
try or don't try, but you know the consequences. Yeah, yeah. So quite interesting. So they put
the buoys in there. Department of Justice sued him said, that's not your right to do that. That's
a federal government's responsibility. You know, I argue that if the federal government's not doing
its job and then it gets delegated to the states and the state has a right to protect its borders.
So, you know, I commend Abbott for stepping up where he was doing it. The government should
be doing that. It shouldn't be an issue. The state shouldn't be doing what they're doing,
but they have to. The razor wire. Did they leave it up? So the buoy got pulled out.
They had it because that was international waterways and all that kind of stuff. But
the razor wire is actually still out there and they're still installing it because that's on
Texas is either it's mainly private land or state land out there in Texas. And so
they've got the ability to do all that. They're basically filling gaps where the federal government
has not done it, where they stopped building wall. I wish they didn't have to do it. As a retired
Border Patrol Chief, I wish that Texas didn't have to do this, but because of what I would call
a betrayal from this government to the state of Texas and to really the whole country when it comes
down the border, you know, Texas has been kind of forced to do that. They were taking the brunt
of it. Now I dealt with a lot of crap in Yuma. Okay. We went from in 2020, just over 8,800 arrests
to 114,000 to 312,000 arrests in two years. So we dealt with a lot in Arizona.
Oh, shit. Pull up that one with them. Those are buoys wrapped. Those aren't wrapped.
Yeah, they've got it's a metal. Dead body found stuck to Texas Governor Greg Abbott's border buoy
in Rio Grande. Okay. So, well, here's the story. Okay. That's the headline. And that's what the
progressive political base, the mainstream media, that's what they went after him on,
seeing who caused this. The coroner determined that the body had died upriver and had floated
down and basically got caught. Oh, really? So the drowning didn't occur because of the
buoys. It was actually where the body got hung up. Okay. So they discovered that through,
you know, however the forensic corners do their stuff, where the water was, how long the body
had been died. But that's not a juicy headline. It's going to get people clicking. Exactly. So
this is something they can throw at us and see your cause in it. Well, look, why would you cross
right there when you've got this? This is clearly a barrier. And what's under it? Are they just
floating? It spins. Okay. So, yeah, I mean, you technically could, it's where it is anchored,
you could, you couldn't, but it's just kind of floating out there. And, you know, it's a river,
you know, again, it looks smooth, but it's a pretty fast moving river. Is it? Yeah.
How deep is it? Oh, well, there's areas where you can literally walk across it. And then there's
areas where it's, you know, four or five feet deep and then 20 feet deep just because of channels,
you know. Wow. But, yeah, I mean, we've used those barriers and floating barriers and different
waterways across the border for a long time. That's nothing new. The razor wire, again, allows,
you know, it sends a message like where the border wall stops, people were going through
there. So they are like, look, enough's enough. And it really happened in an eagle pass is where
it first started because you just had, you had this invasion. I mean, literally had, you know,
a 1,500, 2,000 people a day coming through. And these are caravans?
And we were, no, no, there's just people. Just groups of people.
Just groups of people. Wow.
The caravan, that's a, that's a, I'm glad you brought that up. A caravan is,
that's just activist propaganda. So yeah, what does a caravan mean?
So when they caravan, it's organized by some advocate, usually an open border, you know,
advocate. They stir everything up, get media down there. They've got the support from a lot of,
you know, non-government organizations internationally. They're throwing money down there.
And what they end up doing is they organize right there in, usually in Guatemala,
right before they, and they talk about, hey, we're all coming in. We're heading to the United States.
We're a thousand strong. We got, we're going to be 5,000 strong. What they ultimately, their goal
there is to get the, the humanitarian exit visa from Mexico that allows them to, the, the migrants
to stay in Mexico for up to 40 days and do their own thing. Cause you've never hear about a caravan
arriving at the U S border. You always hear about the caravan coming into Mexico, but you never
hear about the caravan tracked all the way up to the United States, you know, they just disappear
because they've gotten in, they've gotten the attention, they get their visa, they can stay
in Mexico and traverse to Mexico for about 40 days. So then they go into whatever smuggling
network they, they want to go to and money gets put into the, the, the advocacy groups
cause they get the money in there. Mexico does their part of saying, look, we're keeping to
this humanitarian rule that we have. They came in here. Caravans are really are, they're a nothing
burger for the board between us because number one, we can track them cause the media is following
them. So we know where their movement is. We've never had a group of 5,000 in a caravan ever
make it to the border. I mean, there was some in San Diego that made it to Tijuana a couple
of years ago, but it was dwindled down. But yeah. So caravans are just basically activists in
propaganda to try to bring attention to their cause and, you know,
Do you know what Mexico's border policy is on their southern, on their southern borders?
So they have a, they, they have a, their constitution basically prohibits criminalization
of migration. So they, they basically have an open border, if you will. I mean, you have the
south. Yeah. So I mean, they, they don't see, they don't see anything wrong with people migrating.
They think that that is their, their right. So constitutionally, Mexico is not enforcing
migration deals. So they, when they do things in support of us, it's really, you know, pushing
the boundaries of their, of their constitution. You require to have a visa to fly in there like
you are and to come in there. But if you're just coming to traverse through, it's, it's not a problem
for them. Yeah. Yeah. If you fly in, you got to have a visa, but if you're coming into like the
border there and they, they let them in. Have you ever had a conversation with any other
Border Patrol agencies or Border Patrol agents of any other countries?
Yeah, we would work directly with, with Mexico for sure. They created their national guard under
suppression from President Trump to, to shut some things down was in what that did.
When you combine our infrastructure on our side, our policies and the Mexican national guard,
they were, they were, they were disrupting things, the humanitarian, they were going
after the smugglers. So that's where they, they could, if they could, they could criminalize the,
the, the, the human smuggling and the, the, the humanitarian stuff. If you're putting 50 people
in a tractor trailer or 50 people in a hotel room, they could go after them criminally for that
because it's putting people, but it wasn't because of their immigration status. So that worked.
A lot of Mexico's domestic enforcement has done either at the federal police level
or through the military. And so that becomes a big challenge for them. The boots on the ground,
just like everywhere, whether it's here or even internationally, you know, they always have,
they always have a good working relationship. I never had a problem with, with any of my
counterparts in Mexico, but I will tell you this, that when, when there is intestinal fortitude
in Washington, it resonates in Mexico. If there is no will in Washington, Mexico's like, sorry,
I can literally tell you stories. It's a true story. When I was in, in Yuma, the, you know,
there were still, I guess I was there a little over a month before inauguration.
A lot of the policies were still in place. There was no change in policies at that time.
And I met immediately with, with our Mexican counterparts there in, in Mexico. And, and it
was like, Hefe Clem, we're going to, we're going to do this and we're going to do this for you.
You know, we're going to make sure we shut this down and we're going to deflect so you don't have
these impacts here in Yuma. Thank you. Fast forward about six months later, after the new
administration, everybody's in place and all the changes have been made. Same meeting this time
in Tijuana because we would do things regionally. And it would be Hefe Clem, good to see you,
have some coffee. I wish there was stuff we could, more we could do for you.
There was, there was no, there was no pressure from them anymore. I could take it even further
when I was the deputy chief in El Paso and even the acting chief there in Mexico City,
having meetings and this was under President Trump. They were literally, they be in Mexico,
were literally moving assets to help things at the border. That same meeting happened when I
was chief in Yuma with a lot of the same people and it was that same type of response. Sorry,
we really wish we could help because there was no diplomatic pressure from Washington to stop it.
Right. Where under President Trump, he was like, that's the, I think where he was like,
Mexico's going to pay for it. I don't think he ever expected a check written from Abrador
to Trump. It was, you're going to help us. This is a shared border. We're going to secure it
together. And that's another thing. And I think even Bobby Kennedy mentioned that, like Mexico has
a stake in this claim too. And I can tell you everywhere where we have secured the border,
when you have a safe and secure border, when you have law enforcement on both sides working together,
that's a, that's a healthy situation. It's a healthy environment for both,
both countries, for both citizenry. I spent a lot of time in my career in El Paso and I remember,
I had a, I rented a house and my landlord, she was a nearly 90 years old, born in El Paso. Family
lived on both sides of the border and she couldn't thank me enough every day she saw me about what
Border Patrol has done to make it safe for her. She was 89 years old when I left. Every week,
she and her sisters would go to church and then go to lunch in, in, in Juarez and come back.
She's like, there was times when we couldn't do that because it was so dangerous, but she all
came in here and built that wall. She's all, I love that wall. It keeps us safe. Now this is an
89 year old person who was born in El Paso, lived there her whole life saying how important and
family on both sides of the border, how important that is. I, I say that because that's what a lot
of people don't want to believe. They don't want to believe that, hey, if you build that wall,
if you have the technology, you have good strong law enforcement, that makes it safe and healthier
for people to go back and forth and trade and travel and tourism, all that plays out. Yeah.
Why wouldn't you want that? And you know, this, it just gets shifted around. I mean, like I wonder
what other countries are doing. I know for example, Australia has a very, very strict immigration
policy and they have very strict border control. Yeah. It's hard to, you can't, it's hard to just
cross into Australia, right? Right. To the ocean. Yeah. Like I heard for example, like people that
are crossing illegally, they send them to some like barren island, like off the coast where
they have to like detain them for a while and they don't really have a big problem.
Yeah. I've never really had too much conversation with any Australian border guards or border
police. I've known some of them. When I was at school at Harvard, there was a military liaison
people in the same class as I was in and they talked about, you know, hey, we, everything
is from a national security piece because I mean, really, I mean, they're a continent in the ocean.
It's not like there's not, they're not swimming from New Zealand over there. They're come, most
of them are going to be flying in, right? And so that ends up being a visa thing. I'm not too,
too really keen or aware on some of those threats there because they're probably more concerned
about, you know, issues of, you know, contraband being smuggled in through shipping and through,
so I imagine you have stowaway type issues on shipping container cargo. Just never was something
that ever came up in a lot of my conversations. I will tell you that it's my understanding
they're to immigrate, to immigrate to Australia to become a resident or a citizen. I mean,
you'd have to like have a master's degree. You have to have, I mean, it's like, again,
no one has a problem if they have strict requirements in other countries, but as soon
as we, we put requirements on you coming over here, it's like, oh man, you know, your race is
xenophobic. It's like, but you know, this other, Mexico has got very strict immigration policies.
If you want to be a landowner or to buy things, you have to like, my understanding is you have to
like prove you have the income and the wealth and stuff. If you want to buy a proper, I mean,
that's, it's a lot of challenges. And I mean, again, we don't have that here. No, no, I think most
of our land's being bought up by Chinese right now. Well, you know, that's a, you know, again,
I don't ever like to, that's a fact, first of all, that there's a lot of land buying by the
country of China. I don't ever like to broad brush a particular nationality or demographic.
I think that's unfair. I wouldn't want people to do that to me. But we know China is one of our
biggest geopolitical opponents, right? They are not looking out for our best interest in any way,
shape, or form. 24,000 Chinese were arrested crossing the border last year. We've already
exceeded that much spot on. We were actually looking this up before you came in here. I think
that was the exact number I see. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we've already exceeded 24,000 six
months into this fiscal year. I've been down there on the border. Some of those images we
showed earlier, down there in Lukeville, been down there where you'd see 20, 30, 40 Chinese
nationals. Is it true they're all military aged men? Yeah. Well, they're not all military aged
men. There are a lot of them are military aged, but there are some females in there. But I would,
what I've seen, and I can say this with hand raised, what I've seen seven out of 10 have been
military aged men. There were females in there. There was some small family groups in there.
Here's the thing. And again, they're very stoic. They're very transactional. You don't get a story
out of them. We have to use translation services to get information out of them just to do basic
paperwork to process them. If they do speak English, it's very, very limited and, or they're
just not sharing it with us. So it's unlike any other country we've dealt with, because sometimes
even the ones from former Soviet countries and some of the Middle East countries, they'll talk.
Chinese nationals don't say much. And so we're relying heavily on the translation services to
get us the information. And that to me is kind of a concern, because we didn't deport 24,000 people
back to China. And China is one of those countries where you're allowed to leave. In other words,
you have to get almost permission to leave. For the longest time, I think if you even look at
those numbers, if you go back to the year before last, I think you're not allowed to leave.
You have to almost get permission to leave China. It's so controlled.
I think if you go back and look at the numbers, I think in 22, maybe 450 Chinese nationals were
arrested. And then we went up to 24,000. 450 in 2022. Can you find that, Steve?
You may be able to find that in some of the websites, but I think such a low number compared
and then we're up to 24,000. Like why? Is it true that some of them, they found a bunch of them
that were connected to the PLA, the Chinese military wing? Yeah, they're all related to that.
That's one of the things that people don't understand about other countries. We really
have it made here. These people are all kind of connected and forced to do certain things for
their country, right? There's that side. I will tell you that there's a lot of misinformation
that goes on out there. It's good story, good headlines. There's a lot of people that will
delve into something, but there is a lot more truth than fiction when it comes down to some
of these specific countries. Again, I'm not saying every one of them have bad intents,
but given all the issues that we're facing around this globe right now,
that's one country that I would be concerned with because I just think if something was to
happen, where is their allegiance going to be? Did they really flee China because it's so oppressive
and bad? But that's another problem. The other thing too for people to understand is that Mexico
just again resumed. Yeah, there you go. What is that? 2023 alone, more than 12,000 were arrested
at the northern border crossing into the United States illegally. That's 241% increase from just
3,500 arrests in 2022. In 2021, more than 450 Chinese national forever. Yeah, so I was close,
just a little bit. Yeah. I mean, that's just crazy, right? Now they're having Mexico has resumed
direct flights from China. So, you know. That's kind of scary. Yeah. Mexico's got a very strong
footprint in, or I'm sorry, China has a very strong footprint in Mexico and a lot of leverage
and influence within the cartels. And you know, they're mining, they're mining lithium there,
and the cartels are helping protect those lithium mines. There's literal Chinese chemists coming
into Mexico teaching these cartels how to produce fentanyl. What China is doing is what we have
done forever. They've just followed our, 100-year war is kind of what people talk about with them.
It's a marathon for them. I think they've taken up all of South America. They are looking this
hemisphere at a time. Well, we're busy in fighting and using lawfare against former presidents and
trying to keep other people off ballots and doing this and sending money to around the world. China
is slowly just monopoly building everywhere because they've got the money. They're back in
Africa helping, you know, build nations out there. They're, to your point, they're working
directly with the government of Mexico and Central America and South America, I don't know about
Central America, but South America, the fentanyl is flying in or coming in from China into Mexico.
You know, I mean, yeah, it's a concern. And the fact that we have just, you know,
make it, again, so vitriolic to even talk about it from a national security, it's like it makes it
challenging for people to just have a conversation about, hey, what about taking care of America?
What if you turn around and say, well, America first, well, that makes you a white nationalist.
Well, it just makes me an American that says, I think we need to take care of America. Charity
starts at home. When we no longer have homeless veterans and hungry veterans and homeless children
and hungry children and fentanyl poisonings and things like that, when we have, when we're actually
moved up in ranks in education, then we can start worrying about everything else. I do think it's,
we need to time out to kind of clean up our own mess and it starts to secure the border and take it
so we don't bring any more poison and problems into the country and start working and cleaning up
our own situation here. That's, look, I didn't read this in any book, but people talk about me.
That's kind of how the Roman Empire fell. It just, it collapsed from within. And that's how,
that's how this republic would fall, I think. It's not, they're not going to attack us from
the outside. They're going to just allow this continuing to infight and divisiveness and just,
you know, we're going to implode, you know? Yeah, it makes me wonder when you see so many foreign
nationals coming in from, into the southern border, especially like Chinese or there, so the
Chinese are going into Mexico and then coming across the southern border. Well, according to
that, the northern border too, right? So, like, it makes me wonder if there's some, like, bigger
influence behind all this kind of orchestrating it. Like, is there, is there some sort of
plan to overwhelm America's border security system and our welfare system and everything and everything
like that to, like, force us to rework our policies and to rework our laws and to create this sort of
internal chaos? You know, that's, that's always something, you know, you think about too, especially
when there's people coming across that are like military age coming from, like, Venezuela and
China and all these other countries that China is so, has so much influence over.
Yeah, so you bring up really, really interesting points and, and I think, you know, one of the
things I love to talk about is just, are these type of thoughts, right, that cause people to
pause. Now, I don't have any official knowledge of any of this from my time as a, as a Border Patrol
Chief, but as a career law enforcement, these are the type of things, like, you, you, you are a
planner. You know, it's like, it's a reason why our military does 50 year planning. Who
thinks about 50 years ahead of now, but the military does, you know. So I have heard in
various circles, both in the media and, and a lot of our politicians, especially a lot of the
progressives, talk about how the constitution is an outdated document. It needs to be, so, so that's
kind of, that, that's kind of where your comments and your thoughts start making sense. If we can,
you know, implode the system, if we can break the immigration system
by overwhelming and somebody can come in and say, all right, well, this just isn't working.
We've got 20 million, at least illegal aliens that have been in this country for
the last few years. We just need to give them an amnesty and then we need to rewrite it. We need
to have this more open policy. Well, then they win because without a lawful, you know, controlled
immigration policy and they get, they get this open border. And then, then all of a sudden it
becomes, well, you know, they're here. So they might as well be able to vote because they're
influenced by, and we just start tearing down the whole, you know, constitution and the amendments
and the laws that are so they can rework the system. That's how, that's why we are still the
only republic that's lasted this long, because we've been able to defend that living document.
And, you know, we've got rules to add amendments, just now the states have ever come together to
make any amendments in, in, in any recent years. The other, the other thought on that is, is think
about, think about the, you know, police reform, maybe just a couple of things. I don't like using
the word reform because actually police reform isn't a bad thing. If you're a leader of an
organization, someone can say, hey, we can, we can reform some things to improve you.
I'm all for it. If I can make myself better and, and look at this like, hey, these current
practices are not applicable today because you no longer use this technology. So we need to clean
it up. I mean, I see reform as a positive thing. Problem is, is police reform ends up being, letting
criminals go and in the spirit of reform. Well, no, if the laws are still in the books and you're
supposed to go to jail and you're supposed to be, you know, detained and then you're supposed to
pay a fine, but you just turn a blind eye to it. That's not reform. That's just letting criminals,
and that's what's the problem with reform. Where I'm going is think about the last few years,
there's been this defund the police, defund the police, abolish ICE, defund the border patrol.
Well, the talking heads and policymakers and lawmakers and people in the White House know
that they're not going to, you know, get rid of law enforcement agencies. They just can't do that.
But if you can overwhelm them and you can create systems and policies to make it so difficult
to do their job and you can pull funding from different areas, you are essentially accomplishing
that mission without ever publicly saying, well, we didn't abolish ICE. Well, you basically
kept their mission down to next to nothing. We didn't reimagine the border patrol or defund
border patrol. No, you've just tied both their hands behind their back when they're out there
trying to secure a border and they can't do anymore. So, oh, if we would just facilitate
migrant processing better and throw more resources that way, border traders will be
able to free up and go do the job. So we'll put all our investments in processing.
Well, that's great if you'd actually stop the flow from coming into the country, but you did
neither. So our agents are essentially, they've accomplished stymie and immigration enforcement
right without having to stymie immigration enforcement. Right. So that goes back to the
comment about, you know, clean slate and everything and rewriting it. There is that movement of
rebuilding this constitution. There are people out there that thinks that it's outdated and we
need to be updated. And so, again, as someone who has spent their whole life in law enforcement,
you look for those, you plan, you start thinking strategically. And again, as a brain trying to
make a reason, these things are not too far-fetched in today's world that there's people thinking
that way. So whether that ever happens, I hope it doesn't, but you have to kind of at least start
talking about it. Because again, without anybody telling you, why are we doing these things?
Why are you knowingly sending us into spiraling debt, continue to fund endless wars, continuing to
allow mass immigration to come in here, to continue to, you know, drive cost in different
sectors up to where, you know, Americans are having a hard time making it. Why would you
willingly do that unless you had a sinister plan? Again, that goes back to, I don't want to come
across as some conspiracy theorist, but I'm just trying to make sense of it. So at least I know
where I'm going so I can make adjustments along the way. And I think that's kind of one of the
concerns that people have, particularly when it comes to the border is like, what is the plan here?
But I go back to, if we could just focus the attention on starting with border security,
shore up the gaps where we need it, the technology where we need it, and then address the wide gates
piece. I think we'd be in a better place there as a good starting point. Then, you know, again,
that's just my wheelhouse, right? I know that probably every audience listeners would say,
well, what about this way? Well, okay, talk about that. I'm talking about the border and how it
impacts us. That is one of those areas where we absolutely, from a national security perspective,
you have to start securing that border. You have to get the resources there.
Nancy Pelosi a couple of years ago said they didn't have the $5 billion to finish Trump's wall.
Now, how much did they just send over to Ukraine? Like 90 something, like last week.
Somebody else's border is going to get taken care of. And I'm not saying we don't need to help
foreign aid. I'm not saying we don't need to try to reduce Russia's impact over there. I'm not
denying supporting some of the foreign aid bills, but my gosh, the money we're throwing to other
countries that are going to secure their peace, the world's too interconnected to sit there and
say we're protected by two oceans now. We're seeing they're flying in droves. We've got to
think about secure that border. And that would give us so many more opportunities to do other
things. Yeah, it really, it really makes no sense the amount of money that we're spending to
secure other countries' borders that are on the opposite side of the world, but not spending
a dime on our, like how much money, you know, how much money is given to secure the southern border?
Is there like a budget, like a yearly budget that it's given? Do you know how much that is?
So they've kind of changed that. We used to own it and then they broke it down. Like we had a,
like CBP had an $8 billion budget. That's Customs and Border Protection. That's a Border Patrol's
parent agency. We had like 2.1 billion of it back when I was really into knowing all those
budget numbers. I had a, in Yuma, I had about an $8 million budget at one point, but the
infrastructure programs, those were carried out of the larger parent budget.
So what ends up happening, and that's, it's a shell game by Congress and a shell game by
the executive branch too. So we'll have an operating budget of, you know, $8 billion and Border
Patrol gets, you know, 3, I think 3.2 billion, if I'm not mistaken, is what we had a year or so
ago for Border Patrol. And that was for, you know, non-discretionary stuff and or discretionary,
even discretionary, which isn't. That's like, you got to pay the lights and the gas and all that
kind of stuff. Very limited in operations. The actual infrastructure piece, the building of the
wall, those were usually done in supplementals and different appropriations based on the
department's requirements. Don't know what that was, but I know that it was like 5.3 billion
is what Trump spent on the 571 miles of wall. And then there was multiple, you know,
technology system packages and things like that. So I mean, it's costly. Don't get me wrong. I mean,
but when you- It's dropping the bucket compared to the foreign aid that we spent.
Yeah. Yeah. And again, I just look at like the $100 million we just sent over to,
they just signed off on. I'm like, you know, what could that do to secure our border,
help in education, help with the homeless, help with the fentanyl addiction recovery issues,
and then save a little bit for Ukraine, Israel and Taiwan. I'm okay with that.
But charity starts at home and we've got enough problems here. I mean, I'm married to a lifelong
educator. So education is very important to me and she's a special education director. So it's
even our most vulnerable, vulnerable. And we're just failing there miserably as well. You know,
why are we not, I mean, teacher salaries are down, education, you know, it just,
there are so much we could do here. And you know, I just think that that's where we've got to,
we've really got to get our priorities right moving forward because this current
trend line is not comfortable looking down the road. You know, again, I don't want Chinese aggression
into Taiwan. I don't want, you know, what's going on in Israel to continue. I don't want
Putin and Russia to advance into parts of Europe. I, none of us do, right? But at the same time,
I also don't want us to employed from within from, what if these evil forces are behind all
this stuff? What if, if China is purpose, these are all, you know, if half of them are going to
end up being, you know, notified when they're going to act. I mean, that's kind of how like the
traditional, you know, sleeper cells, I mean, that's not, that's not a, it's not a make believe
story. I mean, these people that's, they're born and raised into, you know, hating the infidel.
So, I mean, at some point we have to at least accept that that is a possibility. Now, could it
happen? Yeah. Is it likely to happen? Probably not. But we can't rule it out and we can't not
have the conversation. I don't think we need widespread panic. I don't think we need to tell
everybody that, oh my gosh, something's going to happen. But I also want people to have a level
of awareness because who would have thought, I saw this morning what there's like almost like
six, seven different major universities are having complete chaos, pro Hamas, pro Palestine.
What the hell? Yeah. I mean, that to me is like, this, I mean, protest has been around since this
country was founded. I mean, we've founded this country on protest. But what we're seeing now,
you combine that with this. They've been infiltrated by intelligence since, well,
since at least the 60s Vietnam War. Yeah. Yeah. So when you think about all this,
I mean, we really need to kind of put the breaks on and pause and say, hey,
we got to get our act together. And again, where my laser focus has been is the vulnerabilities
that have been created over the last few years at our border and the numbers don't lie and those
got away numbers again. If there's 24,000 Chinese nationals that came out and let's say all 24,000
had no ill intent, probably a good chance that some of those 1.8 million gotaways may have some that
have bad intent, right? I mean, just the statistics are, you know, the likelihood that
it's there. My buddy, the guy was talking about earlier, Luis, he was explaining to me,
he just recently published a story where he was, he had a couple sources within the Mexican
military and within one of the cartels, I think it was the Jalisco new generation cartel,
where the higher ups in the Mexican military are, they have this software that I believe
they got from Israel. It's called the Titan software. And essentially what it is, is it's a
software that the police in the military have in Mexico, where they can type in someone's name,
their social security number, their phone number, their address, and they can essentially
hack into their phone. And they can geo track them anywhere, wherever they are, wherever their phone
is, they can pinpoint where it is on a map, they can look through their recent texts, their recent
calls, all this stuff. And my buddy Luis is, because they sell licenses to it, to the military,
to their military and their law enforcement. And Luis is like, I got to see if this really works.
So he got a source that had been sold a license to this technology, and he got the phone,
they got the software or whatever, and he was like, okay, let me try tracking one of my buddies,
called one of his buddies who was in like Arizona or something, the guy was in the States,
typed in his phone number, literally got into the guy's phone. So it legitimately works, like
they can just get anybody's name or phone number, figure out where they are. And the Mexican military
selling it to them to make money, not only that, but they're also selling weapons. They're selling
to them like guns, and drones, all kinds of crazy stuff. So these, these cartels are like,
essentially like a black ops military in Mexico, in Mexico, like it's, it's insane. And that,
that combined with the intelligence they have now, from being sold the licenses to these
crazy software programs is, is terrifying. Yeah, no, this is real stuff. I mean, this is,
you know, and, and, you know, that's why we, you know, we have concerns with our own intelligence
agencies and how they've, you know, have been operating over the last few years, you know,
working with the cartels. Yeah, yeah, because they're not supposed to do anything domestically.
So they do everything outside the United States. Yeah, I have no doubt about that. That's why
it's important why we look at, you know, we don't, we don't ignore when they talk about redoing FISO
that we, we don't ignore when they, when they have acts about, you know, Fourth Amendment issues,
you know, of course, Verizon can do the same thing because it's their, my phone, because it's
their phone, right? They're going to be able, you know, but what they, what they can do with that.
See, there's, there's, there's products out there that I think that should be restricted. And then
there's things that should, we should be able to use, right? Like, you know, we don't want,
I don't want somebody's, I don't, someone should not be in trouble for their browser history,
right? But if you're, if you're going to sextort somebody or extort somebody or exploit someone
like a sextorsion is a real thing. If you're, you know, advocating violence online against somebody,
that information needs to be shared. And we need to get that out there and we need to stop that.
But your browser history or, you know, the number of likes you clicked on shouldn't, that's, that's,
that should be protected. And that's kind of the world we're living in now with tech is
you've got licenses out there that's in the hands of the bad guys. Yet then sometimes here in our
own United States, we inhibit the good guy's ability to counter that. So, I mean, it's just a,
it's a conversation and question that needs to happen is how do we, you know, for years,
I, you know, I spent my career going against what I would say a conventional adversary. There was
a line of demarcation. That was the border, right? Somebody's going to cross in, you know,
but over time, the adversary has become unconventional and it's been the advent of
technology, social media, you know, our cell phones or our smartphones and, and mean, you know,
so we've got to look at it. It's one of the things I'm doing, one of the many projects I'm
involved in with, with an AI company, Massive Blue is the company's name and Overwatch is our
program. We, we target online human trafficking and sex sexual exploitation. How do they communicate
online? You'd be surprised. I mean, some of it is there, it's kind of like, like high level cat
fishing, you know, they use a lot of emojis and there's clear web, there's dark web, there's,
you know, they just start chatting with people and then they DM me and all this kind of stuff.
Look, and that's on, that's on like the, the, the human trafficking and sex trafficking piece.
They do this every day in the smuggling network for human, human smuggling. I mean, in Arizona,
Tucson, the area where I live, it is not uncommon for someone to put out something on,
on a social media platform and, you know, hey, you want to get a thousand bucks, you know, DM me
and they, they send a digital message and hey, get, get an SUV, come out and give you a pin drop,
you'll get a thousand ahead and if you see border patrol or law enforcement, don't stop and when
you get to Phoenix, DM me again and I'll tell you where to go and that is happening daily in places
in Arizona. In fact, I know, Steve, you could probably bring up car chase smuggling, you know,
accidents in Arizona, there'd be a whole list of them. That's happening where innocent lives are
being lost because smugglers, these teenage smugglers are taking mom and dad's SUV, driving from
Phoenix, Tucson down to the border, overloading it and then driving a hundred miles an hour and
yeah, there's one just from last year, but they'll, that actually, yeah, that's,
you know, smuggling attempt in Arizona and it's in a rollover crash. Wow. Yeah. So,
there's other ones like in Cochise County, that's one of the busiest areas too,
where, you know, they're just, you know, these are kids. I mean, the 15, 16-year-olds, you know,
during 16, 7 driving cars that they're not familiar driving with, overloaded mom's SUV
and, you know, taking a slow curve at a hundred miles an hour and you're going to lose it and,
you know, here's the other thing that happened. So, let's say they're successful. I mean, this is,
this is some of the back briefs I've heard. You probably could Google Cochise County and find
something too. So, they're successful. They get down to Naco, Arizona. They pick up seven people.
They head out to, they make it to Phoenix. They do the pin drop. The guy meets them in a parking
lot and says, you did good. I'm not going to pay you, but I want you to do this again tomorrow,
if you're willing, and then I'll pay you. And then, you know, somebody, the guy gets mouthy and says,
hey, well, I thought you were going to pay me. He's like, I know, I know what car you drive.
This is your mom's car, right? And I got the driver's, I got the license plate.
I think you're going to cooperate. I mean, so now he's, now he has now brought him into the
trafficking world because he has basically said, I'm not paying you. You're going to do this again
for me. And if you decide to call the cops, I know this is your mom's car. I got your driver's,
you know, your license plate. I'm going to figure out, I know where you, I'm going to find out where
you live. I've got you online. So now he just hooked them in there. And yeah, so,
yeah, so some of the, the bigger events that we've been fortunate, we hadn't had as many
fatalities lately, but the smuggling goes on there. There's one just from two vehicle crash
and service to that was just a month ago. Yep. I mean, and these are all being recruited on
online apps, you know, and so, you know, and not only are they doing that, but that's also how
a lot of people are getting poisoned by fentanyl because they're ordering, you know, what they
think are Percocets or something online. And there was something recently that DEA said that
seven out of 10 pills that are not purchased through a U.S. pharmacy have, have deadly doses
of fentanyl in them, you know, and all the stuff comes in from the border. And some of it about,
it's, it's a, it's roughly like a 55, 45 split, 55% is being interdicted at the ports of entry,
like people are trying to smuggle it in on their bodies or in compartments. And the other is being
caught between the ports by border patrol or by the highway patrol and things like that.
But that's what we're catching, you know, and so it's good that we're catching it. But I also,
like I mentioned, that 1.8 million gotaways, how many of those may have been smuggling in,
you know, hard narcotics. Right. You know, we don't see, it's rare, it's rare that you see marijuana
being smuggled in anymore because it's legalized. Because it's legalized, yeah. Arizona is a state
where it's legalized, so. And I heard they also just like converted a bunch of the,
their pot growing fields into like poppy fields. Yep. Yep, that's true. That's true. Because
they're able to make other things with that. And, you know, and again, all the,
all the clandestine labs are, and that's the thing, right? And it's a kind of scary thing for a lot
of, I've always concerned, and so far I haven't, haven't known of any cases, but you have a lot of
winter visitors, right? You have that here in Florida, but especially down there in the southwest
border, the snowbirds will come down and they'll go to Mexico to get their medicine. And I'm always
concerned about. Like what kind of, what do you mean? Just for prescriptions, you know, that
just go down to, it's cheaper for them to go to, you know, Agadonis, Mexico to get it than it would
be in Yuma. They're going to pay, you know, a lot less. So I've always been concerned with,
are those pharmacies getting them from true pharmaceutical companies, or are they,
are they getting them from some, you know, black market pharmaceutical company out there? And,
you know, are some of our elderly going to fall victim of that? It's always a concern with me,
because the, the labs in Mexico, especially the clandestine labs are not falling any kind of
safety and security features, right? I mean, they're,
No, there's no regulations.
Yeah. Yeah. So they press Percocet in one, and then they press Fentanyl on the other,
and then they come back with another round of Percocet, and it's still got residual in it. And
that's, that's a concern. And
There's pop-up shops all around Mexico, where you can literally just walk on the side of the road,
and they have like full-on pharmacy, like fruit stands.
From Viagra to ibuprofen, you know, it's just one of those things that,
you know, it scares the heck out of me because not that I'm advocating for this type of lifestyle,
or anything crazy like that, but, you know, kids can't even really, they got to be so
careful on their right of passage nowadays, you know, I mean, like going to parties and,
you know, smoking something or taking something, just because that's just what the kids can do,
and have done, or, you know, and now, you know, you can't even risk it, that somebody,
you know, said, oh yeah, my friend got me these gummies, they're supposed to be really good.
And then they got them from some pop-up stand in, you know, in Mexico or some online deal.
And then now you're, you know, your kid ODs, you know, is poison. I mean, thank goodness,
it hasn't happened to my family, but I know countless people who have lost, I actually
made the mistake calling an over, like, oh, I introduced them, you know, we were chatting,
I said, oh, they're, unfortunately, you know, their daughter overdosed, and he's like,
no, she didn't overdose, she was poisoned. And I mean, like, I'm like, oh, my bad, I just,
I've totally just messed up because I was just using common sense, like, I'm not common language,
like, yeah, it was an overdose. No, an overdose, I mean, I took too much of it. She was poisoned,
she was not intending to take fentanyl, and it was in whatever she did. So, you know,
that was definitely an eye-opening moment for me, because it truly is, you know, I know it's
poisoning. I know all that. And it just really hit home when I, when the, you know, the dad,
and I'm glad he corrected me, because, you know, an overdose is something that could be
considered intentional, a poisoning is shouldn't be, right? And that's the problem. And that
kind of goes back to all this stuff that we've got to, we got to focus on keeping it from even
getting here and how you do that is you secure our border, you secure our ports. You know,
there's efforts out there. I know that that was, you know, there's some bills that have been out
there. You had the Senate bill recently that the, you know, the administration has been pushing,
but that was, that was not a border security bill. That was an immigration facilitation bill. There
was very little, there was some push for some technology in that bill to help process migrants
faster. There was some counter narcotic technology that's out there, but they could still use that.
They tried to hijack it in that bill. The only thing that I saw in there that was truly positive
was the increase in the detention space. But that, that was, that was to bring it up to 50,000 a day
average daily population of ICE detention. That's what they started with under the
administration. They reduced it in half. And now they're wanting like, hey, well,
25,000 a day. Yeah. And then, but the house bill was all about border security. And Schumer never
took it up. It sat there in the first four bullets of that were finished the wall construction,
add more technology. It was put the migrant protection protocol in place and then
increased border patrol agents up to 25,000. I think that was the first four chapters in that,
in that bill. Yet all you hear is like, why didn't you pass the Senate bill? Why didn't you
because that was a bill based on conflating immigration with security. And the house bill
was mainly focused on border security. And, and, and, you know, there was some put some more
immigration judges in there, but that's how I would challenge, I would challenge Congress right
now as I would tell them, and I did tell them I was on, on the Hill last week, speaking to a
governance group, do a standalone border security bill. Just talk to your leaders. Security. Just,
just talk to DHS as specifically customs and border protection leaders and border patrol leaders
and say, what is it you need now? You know, what, give me that. And let's put that in the bill.
Let's not talk about visa quotas. Let's not talk about, you know, administration,
admin, immigration judges. Let's talk about what is it you need to secure the border and what policies
back it. Let's put that up there and let's see who votes for securing the border for America
versus, oh, well, let's, let's do the trade-offs. No, a border, a standalone border security bill,
specifically talking about the, the physical needs to secure requirements back by the appropriate
policies to support those agents and the requirements. Let's put that forward and stand
alone and let's see who stands up for secure in America. And then, then when that passes,
then say, okay, we're going to get that. Now let's talk about how do we clean up this system?
How do we increase immigration, lawful immigration, while reducing the opportunities for exploitation
of immigration? How do we right size the ones that have been here? Who do we allow to stay? Who do we
order removed? I mean, these are, these are complex questions that are going to require
complex solutions, but you cannot muddy the waters by throwing in five miles of wall here
and there with the, with, uh, parole and asylum, you know, that's, that's where it gets, then it
becomes emotional again, you know? Um, same people that are arguing this had no problem putting,
putting a fence around the Capitol to include razor wire, but, but boy, when it comes down to
putting a fence around our front yard, um, they sure do want to, uh, complain about it, you know?
What is the, um, can you explain the asylum thing? Like, like when people come, come through,
asking for asylum or saying they have asylum, some of them come through and they already have asylum
from other countries and they're still coming here. How, what are, what are the rules involving
asylum? And like, maybe you can explain exactly like what defines asylum. Yeah, I'll make it very
clear. I'm not an asylum expert, right? But I, but I have, I have a little bit of knowledge on,
on some of these things because again, it didn't matter what you thought you had or what you
wanted to claim. If you cross between the ports of entry, you are violating the law and that's
where my space was, right? Regardless of your intent, didn't matter. You, you broke the law.
Got it. You robbed the bank to pay for your food. It doesn't matter. You robbed the bank.
We'll deal with the consequences later. But asylum, there's two types of asylum. There's
an affirmative claim. That's where you are in your country. You're, you're like, Hey, I, this is not
a good place. I am, and, and, and there's, and I'm always get it wrong, but there's a couple of them
that, you know, persecution for race, gender, sexual orientation, political affiliation,
religion, and there's, it's, it's those, right? That's, that's like the main,
kind of very simple to our anti-discrimination, EEO laws. It's very.
So like someone who's in Gaza right now, while it's being bombed, they can come here for asylum.
So if you were, well, no, I mean, if you are, well, yes and no, I mean, just because you're there
and bad things are happening, doesn't mean you can get it. That would be more of a,
of a war refuge and things like that. But we're talking about what's happening at the border
right now. There's, it's, it's close. Okay. If you are a Christian in a Muslim country,
and you're getting stoned every day by rocks, we've got to be clear nowadays.
The old school stone. Yeah. If you're getting beat up every day because,
simply because you're a Christian, that is persecution. And you can request asylum
because of your religious background. Okay. Okay. All right. So let's think of it that way.
So that would be where you would apply to an affirmative, affirmative claim. It's actually
an application for asylum, a 595, I think is what it is. And you would submit that to the American
consulate, your embassy, you'd come to the United States. It's like, I got a five, I want to fill
out a file. I'm going to apply for asylum. There's, here's what's happening. Okay.
There and there's the defensive claim. Okay. And that's, that's where,
where 99.9% of the people that the border patrol have encountered
are claim and asylum. What happens there? So again, you have the affirmative claim. And let me,
let me, let me, let me flush that a little bit further, how that works. There's a segment in
the affirmative claim law that says, regardless of your status of entry, all right, regardless of
your immigration status, your status entry, people like to hold on to that in today's world.
But the intent behind that was you're a, you're a Ukrainian student at the, at the university
and your visa is good till June. You just finished the semester. It's, it's, you know, May 25th.
And you're like, okay, my visa expires in a week. I don't have classes again till September.
I'm going to go home to Ukraine. Well, you realize that there's a war broken out and there is no
home. You have no place to go. Russia has now advanced through your neighborhood. You've can't,
you have no contact with your family. It is now June 2nd. Your visa has expired. You are technically
illegally in the United States. You are out of status. You go to the nearest immigration
office. You go to the nearest council that, you know, you go to Ukrainian embassy, whatever
it is. And you say, Hey, I need, I need asylum. My neighborhood's gone. My family's gone. My visa's
expired. You can apply for asylum there. Okay. That's all an affirmative claim, regardless of
your status. Okay. Now back to that 99.9% of what border patrol is encountering now.
When we arrest somebody and when we are processing them through, into removal proceedings, we ask
them, do you have fear of returning to your home country? There's only two answers. Yes or no.
If you say yes, then we will put you in for a credible fear screening.
That's where they will use asylum. You can claim asylum as I have fear of returning and they make
a defensive claim. In other words, they've got to make the, they've got to prove that they are not
removable because they meet the merits of asylum. Okay. That means they say, they have to say,
I'm persecuted for XYZ. I fled for XYZ. They get those hearings and that is a defensive claim.
They're doing it on the back end. In other words, they didn't apply for asylum.
None of these people we catch say, Oh, hey, I came here for asylum. It's, it's after the effect.
Like, okay, you don't, you're going to be removed. You're going to go see, you're going to get deported
unless you have fear. Then if you have fear, then we, we ask you these five questions. And
if you say yes, then you're going to go get an asylum hearing, which could be years down the road.
Okay. So that's, that's where that whole loophole is. So, ah, oh, all I have to say is yes. Now,
what happens in these people, unfortunately are in terrible situations, but you know,
if you are living in a neighborhood where you're getting, you know, a shake down every week for
ransom and you're getting beat up and you're being threatened, you're being assaulted,
that's not asylum. That's just, that's sorry, man. That's a tough life, but that's not asylum.
I know of stories where, and I've heard this from an immigration attorney in front of mine,
where he had clients that came from Central America. The mother was being extorted by the
local gang said, you're going to pay me 40 bucks a week. She said, I'm not going to pay you 40 bucks
a week. And they came back and said, well, not only are you going to pay us 40, you're going to
pay us 80. And if you don't start paying us, I'm daughter. She's like, you're not going to do any
of that. They came back and said, okay, you're going to pay the 80 bucks. And then if you don't
agree to pay, I'm going to kill her and then I'm going to kill her right in front of you. And you're
going to still pay me. And she's like, all right, let me see if I can come up with the money. And
then she fled. Horrible life. Horrible. Horrible decision. Not a merit for asylum. And nor should
it be. It's just a terrible thing because that is just a bad situation. If everybody, because how
do we validate that claim as a valid claim, right? You've taken her word for it. I mean, it is a
horrible situation. But those threats and those assaults and things like that happen in our own
neighborhoods in this country. It's just a very difficult situation that this world has put everybody
in is that there's that evil out there that would ransom somebody's daughter in front of them to
say, I'm going to, we're in front of you. Then I'm going to kill her. And if you don't pay that,
I'm going to kill you afterwards. But this is, you're going to see her die before. That is a
horrible place to be put in. And that is, doesn't meet the grounds for asylum. And that is open for
debate. But that's the way the rules are. And I think it is, it is going to open a Pandora's box
to where is that line of what's horrible and what's tolerable. You can be assaulted, but not murdered.
Okay. I mean, again, this becomes where this becomes very emotional because
I could only, my stomach turns telling me this, telling the story because I'm thinking,
what if that was my family? Right. I would want refuge. But I mean, these are legitimate
stories and these are human lives at stake. And that's why it's such a difficult deal.
Why we should be able to say, okay, mother that needs to get a better life,
if you do, if you want to come to United States, here's an opportunity for a six-month work visa
that you don't have to wait your whole life to get. I mean, maybe there's some, maybe I don't
know the answer of that, right? But there's got to be a better way. And again, that is why this
has become such a difficult thing. And I think as soon as we start bringing in immigration and asylum,
we lose the security piece. And again, it still starts with figuring out the right way. But
no one should have to live with that threat over their head. Right. But can she go from
that city in Guatemala to someplace else? Possibly. Could she go to Mexico? Yeah, she could.
And this is where a lot of this gets all messed up is that international asylum laws are in a very
simple way to put it is all the cooperating asylum countries, which there's a bunch of them.
If you, as soon as you make it to that country, that's where you're supposed to seek asylum. So if
you're in India and you're fleeing for whatever reason, and you've got to fly it out from India
to Germany, and you're seeking asylum, you seek it in Germany. That's the first country that you've
landed in. You mean like if it's like a connecting flight, you got to connect in Germany to go to
the US? Well, wherever you're going, right? So whatever, let's say, you know, this is where it
gets all messed up. Yeah, because right, because if you want to go to another country, but there's
like four countries in between you and that country, you have to go through those countries,
right? But if you're seeking asylum, if your whole basis is your fleeing persecution,
you don't get to pick and choose where you go, at least on the front end, right? So you pass
through several countries, and then you get to the United States, and then you say, do you have
fear of return? Oh yeah, I have fear of return. Okay, well, I'm going to use asylum as my defensive
claim. If you were really being persecuted, if your life was on the line, and you were able to
board a plane out of, I just said India to Germany, nonstop to Frankfurt, would you just,
I'm here, I'm safe, I'm not in India anymore. And again, I'm just using that as an example.
Then they pass through, they go from India to Germany to UK, and then they go fly direct from
London Heathrow to Mexico City. All right, so now that they've been on, they've been traveling for
four or five days now, they're in Mexico City, they spend a month in Mexico City, and then they show
up at the southern border, our southern border, then come across, and now they're seeking asylum?
If you were really seeking asylum based on those main persecutions, why wouldn't you seek it in
Germany? Why wouldn't you seek it in the United Kingdom? Why wouldn't you seek it in Mexico,
if you were those reasons? Now, oh, you have family in it? Oh, so you, oh really, you wonder,
family, in case you want to be with your cousins that live here, you were looking for a job. Oh,
you weren't really being persecuted, but you found that loophole. That's the problem is now
everybody's been clumped into this one big mass of eight million people. So the true asylum seekers,
the ones that are fleeing, which is very limited, as I've said, very limited in scope,
are now in the same line as the people that are economic migrants looking for a job or family
unification, and they've gummed up the whole system. So now this asylum seeker waits the same
time as somebody, it's just trying to get a benefit and relief for the United States. That's
why it's all jacked up. Yeah, if I was like, well, maybe what about flying into Canada? Because if
the border is easier to cross from Canada to the US, why not just fly to Canada? Because Canada
won't let them in. Well, no, what's, what's your intent? Are you seeking asylum? Seeking asylum.
Yeah, go to Canada. Seeking asylum. If you could fly, why, why, why are you, why are you choosing
the United States? Maybe I like watching, uh, maybe I'm a New England Patriots fan and I want to go
to a Patriots game. I want to go to the US because they got, they got good hot dog hamburgers. I
want a Ford truck and I want to go to a Patriots game and you apply for a non-immigrant visitor visa.
And that's easy? Well, you got to wait in line like everybody else. Have you ever heard the story?
There's a, there's a, my point being is, is that is not asylum wanting to go to the Patriots game.
That's not asylum, correct. So, so if you want a Patriots, you go as a tourist visa and you wait
in line and then, right. Yeah. And then when you get that time, you finally get that chance to go
and you better have a, you have to have a return ticket. Right, right, right, right. Um,
there's a, so there's this guy, this DJ named Dead Mouse. Have you heard of him? I don't know.
He's like a more like the top famous electronic DJs, um, in the world. And he had this story.
We were just watching it before he came in. He was in Canada. I think he lived in Canada. It was
a Canadian resident, right? And he was, he had a buddy that he worked with because they made music
together and this guy had a band and whatever. And they wanted to like, they wanted to meet up and,
and like hang in LA for the weekend or something like that. And so he went to, he caught a cab,
which was like 20 minutes away to the border where you cross. It was like near Niagara Falls.
Okay. Yeah. Buffalo. Um, yeah. And he went there and, uh, they're basically like, oh no, you can't
go to the U S. He's like, how do you know this guy? He lives like 2000 miles away. How the f*** do
you know this guy? He's like, what do you mean? It's like the internet and talk to this guy. I met,
I met him online years ago and we've been talking ever since and I'm going to go meet him and hang
out with him for the weekend in LA. Like, huh, that's fishy. And, uh, they were like, oh no,
we see what you do. You're a, you're a, uh, skilled musical artist. You're going to go here to work
and make money and f*** no, you're not coming across to the U S or whatever. And they ended
up banning him from the U S for seven years. Yeah. He's probably, he would have to have a,
a P visa, which was a performer visa because they see him as a performer and basically he tried to
enter as a non-immigrant, um, uh, visitor to come see, but he didn't have the right visa. And so,
and he didn't answer the right questions. And so again, that's,
He was just going to hang out and he wasn't even going to work, but they just assumed because
he's this highly skilled, world famous DJ that he was going to work and they're going to say,
f*** you, you're banned. Why? So again, I, again, you get into that immigration quagmire. Um, I've
used that twice now. I should say that immigration just that it's, if you have a non-immigrant visa
and they're getting non-immigrant visas temporary, right? You're here for, you know, they're usually
for six months at a time versus an immigrant, which is an intended immigrant. Somebody's going
to come here and emigrate and go through the process to be a resident alien and ultimately a
citizen. Um, we've got to make it easier. Yeah. All right. So again, the irony I wanted to point
out in this is that like, look, here's this like super highly skilled guy who's, who's coming here,
who could, even if he was working, I'm sure he would contribute to something. And, but on the
other hand, you have, like you said on the Southern border, these droves of people who are
coming through and just getting released. Yeah. Yeah. But the guy who tried to do it the right
way gets banned. International superstar has a performance visa, but you know, whatever, they
know everything about him. He can't even come in for the weekend. Right. That's why this is all
messed up. We should not be able to, we should find a better way to make that happen. I know,
I met somebody a few weeks ago, I was speaking in, in Philadelphia and this guy was a naturalized
citizen, a business owner, quite wealthy business owner. Um, his, um, his brother had, um, had applied
to be an immigrant, you know, was going to try to come over here and emigrate to the United States.
So his application was in because he has, he is an intended immigrant when he wanted to come over
here to go see his family or meet, to see his brother for the holidays. He applied for a tourist
visa. They denied it because he's intended that he wants to stay here. So they're, they're assuming
he's going to come in as an, as a tourist and stay. Well, again, I think that's kind of jacked up
because number one, his brother's a naturalized citizen and you know all the information on
anybody that goes through the immigration process and that we know everything about you.
No, this guy's not a terrorist. Yeah, right, right. You've applied to be an immigrant. So we
have all your application on file. All you're saying is, Hey, I want to come over here for a
short time to go see family and, and, and take in the sites and I'm going to go back because I'm
waiting to emigrate. If he doesn't comply with that non-immigrant visa, then, then he is putting his
whole immigrant opportunity in jeopardy. So he has everything to lose by not complying with the
six month visa or whatever link to time he wanted. If he came over here as a non-immigrant and allow
that to, and stayed beyond six months and became out of status, he would jeopardize, but we denied
his ability to come hang out with his, you know, his family and visit the United States for X amount
of weeks or months. Now there's two sides of our story. There could be a huge lengthy background.
I have no idea that's why this guy is not allowed in. I don't know. But just on the, the, the face
value of this, this shows how jacked up our system is. It's, it kind of goes back to the, the, the
daily border crossers. I mean, this person comes to work every day in the United States and goes back.
We make that so difficult if they wanted to come through for any other reason. I'm not,
I never am going to sacrifice security for comfort when it comes down to our national
security at the border. In other words, yeah, if you got to, if you got to sit in the waiting
line an extra two hours to come through, but you're going to get the privilege of being here,
so be it. But we can make it better, you know. And I just, I get, it's, it's just kind of frustrating
because you look at all the different things in our world. You know, what would happen if,
if there was a line since six AM at a, at a, at a famous pop stars tour, right? Sold out for
months in advance. People have been there since six o'clock in the morning waiting to get in the
parking lot. And you and I decided with no tickets, just hop the fence, walked in line and, and
snuck in and got front row. Yeah. We'd be in jail. If, if we made it out alive, you know.
And, but yet when it's our border, no one thinks in there and they, you know, let them do it. No,
that, that makes no sense. You can't even, you walk in in front of Starbucks and cut in front
of somebody to order your latte, you're going to get yelled at and screamed at. And if you don't,
if you don't go fast enough at a green light and Tampa, I figure that today, you're going to get
honked. But, but, you know, I'm like, it's all the New Yorkers down here. That's right. Right.
I mean, if that, if that happened here, nobody thinks anything of it, but if you jump in line
at our border, everybody know it's okay. Yet there's a, there's a, there's a threat there. There's
no threat if you, if you don't get your coffee in time, but there's a threat if, if we don't vet
who comes in here, you know. How many people, you said the ICE detention facilities are full?
How many people are in there and how long do they typically stay there for?
That's a great question. So it's funded on a, on a weird deal. It's called the average daily
population. So it's like, it are funded at 24,000 beds a day. It's based on beds. And that means
that they do have more people than, than they have beds in there, at least funding for. So they're,
like every government, they're robbing Peter to pay Paul, you know, they're pulling out of this to
cover bed space. They need, they need at least 50,000 beds a day. And there's some people that
will stay. Are there kids in there? Like little kids? No, no. So, so we can't, so there's a,
there's a couple of things here. So unaccompanied minors, okay, by law, it's actually the Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act. I actually had a change in name, but we all always call it
TVPRA. That defines a minor as unaccompanied minors, 17 and younger without a parent or legal
guardian. They belong to Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement. So whenever we
catch a 17 year old that is not with his parent or legal guardian, they get turned over to HHS
ORR and they handle the children. There was a lawsuit, a Flores settlement. And through that,
that has said that you cannot detain family units for more than 20 days. So if you come as a family
unit, the worst case scenario is you're going to stay in custody for 20 days, then you're going to be
released if you don't have your hearing removed. So that's why there's always this big push for
family units to come over here. And there's a lot of fraudulent family units that come over here.
Because I mean, they like take randoms and stick them together. Absolutely. Absolutely. They will
put single adults together and then have children. A lot of the breaking up of families happens on
the South side. Like they'll literally take kids and put them with single adults to make a family
unit and then try to make their arrangements when they get back. Wow. Yeah, it's crazy.
That's happened. We've even had, before I got to Yuma, Yuma actually discovered a,
it was a, you know, kind of a recycled kid. He was being used multiple times to make family
units. He was unrelated. And it was really an agent who recognized his kid being processed.
He said he looks familiar and he asked somebody, he looked, I don't know. He seems like this kid.
Using the same name or no? No, different names. Because we're not going to have the bio on a
small child name, but we wouldn't have fingerprints or pictures because we do only it's 14 or younger.
Oh yeah, you guys do like all kinds of like fingerprints scanning.
But we can't do that with a child. So, but they recognized it. And when they started talking
and they basically through interrogation broke the parents and like, now this isn't our kid.
We got him in Mexico. We were put in and then we come to find out this kid had been used a
couple of times, like from Brazil to Mexico City to Yuma to Ohio, South Carolina back to
Brazil back to Mexico. This happened a few times. So, you know, this is the kind of stuff that goes
on. And, you know, and thank goodness we caught him. And, you know, we had a pretty good,
good setup to using DNA testing. And of course that that was put on hold under this administration.
You know, if we had, you know, you need to have to get consent or probable cause to swipe somebody's
DNA. So you had, you know, let's say a husband and wife and two children, but
only the guys doing the talk in some of the last names, the documents look kind of funny.
Like, all right, I think I have enough. This isn't the family unit. We got consent or we get
probable cause to do the DNA swab where we started breaking family units up, you know,
the fraudulent ones. And it got so good that agents could just walk up with a Q-tip and people
were like, all right, yeah, yeah, this is my cousin's friend. Really? Yeah. That happened in El Paso.
We broke a few of them just by, we didn't even take the swab. They just kind of confessed right
off the back cause they knew they're, they needed to get caught. Cause once you, if we test you and
it comes back and you've been lying to us, we can charge that, you know, that line to a federal
agent deal. So it's, it's a, it's a complex evil world, this human trafficking, human exploitation
that's happening under the guise of, oh, it's a, it's a humanitarian border crisis. It is,
but we've kind of created it with some really lackadaisical policies or looking the other way. And
it's just, and I think if you secured that border and you basically funneled it through those wide
gates that I talked about, which is our legal pathways and ports of entry, we could at least
narrow it down a little bit. It's not going to end evil. It's not going to end human exploitation,
but it sure could mitigate it. And I'll give the good guys a better chance of going after the bad
guys and identifying them and saving some lives. Because I could only, I mean, it's just, you know,
you can only imagine the, the horrors that people go through. Cause what do you do if you, you know,
if you can't pay off that debt, you make arrangements to, if you, if you think that all
the arrangements are going to be good paying jobs to pay off your debt, you're, you're fooling yourself.
These are people that are going to be, you know, put into prostitution and, and, you know,
indentured server tube and that stuff goes on and right here in this very, very country of ours.
Yeah. What would you do if you were given like, if a good old Joe Biden came down and said,
Mr. Chief Clem, we're going to give you the blank check magic wand to fix this Southern border
security problem. What would you do? What's like the lowest hanging fruit of problems that you
would solve? The first thing I would do is, um, I would institute the migrant protection protocol
that basically closing those asylum loops right off the bat. It was working when we had it in its
very fullest intent and robust. I would do that because that sends a message day one that you
can't try this loophole. And that can be done instantaneously by a directive, like effective
immediately. Okay. Then I would resume the construction of the border wall where it made
sense. We already have the plan to include the technology. I would do all of that right off
the bat. Those are the first two things that I would do that would, um, that would send a very
clear message that we, we mean business. Like you cannot come in here this current way. Um,
I would also, um, you know, I want to make sure that it's not considered a round up or any kind of,
you know, thing like that. But I would definitely, I would end the parole system that's being used
right now because that is, that's that 300, 400,000 people that are being flown in, uh, because they're,
they're claiming a status before they even get to the United States. That could be shut down
right now. What's that? That's, uh, yeah, that's the Cuban, Venezuelan, Nicaraguan, um, parole, uh,
system that, uh, this administration has, uh, has created where they can apply for, uh, a humanitarian
cause and they're flying into the United States. Um, that's the plane loads. Oh, yeah. 400,000
people have come in. Whoa. Yeah. Yeah. It's, uh, it's, it's called parole. Yeah. Cubans, Haitians,
Nicaraguans. Yep. Venezuela. DHS, Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, Venezuela, parole process. Click, click
on that one. Yeah. They've applied for asylum and they're, they're, they're basically allowing to
come over here from countries that they can get asylum in. It's, it's so, yeah. Yeah. I heard that,
um, some of, they were, it's an unlawful process. Uh, when you look at how, how this is creating a
classification of people and only Congress can do that. So I'm very, I'm very, I don't think this
this will hold up to, uh, to challenges when it finally gets all challenged. So, um,
yeah, it's, uh, those are a couple of things right there that become deterrents. Um, again,
let's finish what we started. Let's, let's get the, uh, the migrant protection protocol on there and
then, uh, let's, um, you know, and I guess the fourth thing would, which would be, I think the most
profound, yet most difficult thing would be, let's clean up the immigration
pathways. Let's figure out so the guy from Canada can go spend a weekend with, with the friend that
he's met, you know, if the guy's got no criminal history or immigration history, right? Uh, let's
figure out a way to where, um, cousins that live on in San Diego and in Tijuana can go hang out
on either side of the border, um, you know, for the weekend in a, in a very efficient manner to
where they don't have to jump through all the hoops to do that. So we can have that shared border,
but then, you know, but also accountability for security on that same border. You know, I mean,
those are the things that we need to do. Um, uh, I am, I am, I am very much again, hawkish and pro
security, but I also recognize the challenges we face. If you pull a hard line, it doesn't
end well. So we've got to make sure we kind of look through it from that common sense and
compassionate lens, secure the border, but let's find out a way to encourage a more efficient
pathway for those that, you know, need our help and also, you know, that help spur commerce and
trade and travel. Um, let's, let's, if we can't find it here, let's find a way to attract and attain
the best and brightest and let's not make it such an arduous process. Let's figure out a way to where
an intended immigrant can still come over here to see his family on a tourist visa for a limited time
without jeopardizing his application. But at the same time, if you violate the system,
if you exploit people in the system, there is a big consequence. So if you come over here
under a tourist visa, after you've applied to be an intended immigrant and you violate that
tourist visa, you start from scratch again, buddy. You don't get to a second and third bite at the
apple because you know, only violated the process. And then I think that's, that's the, the, probably
the, the top four or five things I would do and I, and they're all doable. Some are, can be done
overnight. Some will take, take amount of time, but you know, um, it is, if the president asked
me today, I would start with that fundamental tenant that we have to secure the border. It is
the government's requirement to seek for safety is to secure our border. Then we can work it from
there. Yeah. So well, Chris, thank you again for coming, man. This was a super enlightening
conversation. I hope so, man. I really appreciate it. I mean, it's, it really is one of those
things where, and we could talk and go on because, because sometimes I'll say something. I'm like,
I could spend an hour kind of giving you a backstory on that, you know, I mean,
but I just, I'll just leave you with this, Danny. Thank you, number one, for having the
conversation. All right. It may, it may make perfect sense to some people, some people may walk away
more confused or even angry. I don't know. But, um, my, my intent is for people to understand that
what is happening right now, we can't sustain that we have to secure our border for national
security purposes that, you know, but we can, we can do it in a, a very meaningful and deliberate
way to keep Americans safe. And then also address that the, the, the need to number one,
be that beacon of hope for those that need it. And also find a way to where we can have America
benefit from continued lawful immigration, right? To help businesses and America continue to grow
and prosper, you know, that's, that's, that's the whole gist of the conversation wrapped up in 30
seconds, you know. Yeah. And I've always wanted to talk to somebody like you who has like firsthand
experience, like boots on the ground at the border to see what's going on. Because all I ever
hear is just people talking about headlines or something than they read or, I mean, that's,
that's for the most part, when you're talking to people about any sort of big issue, it's,
it's very rare to find somebody who's actually witnessed it firsthand for years like you did.
Yeah. So over half my life, I mean, yeah, I mean, I could have told you war stories and,
you know, scary moments and vehicle pursuits and all that stuff. But, you know, anybody can talk
about cool stuff. This is important stuff that is, you know, I think that it can actually shape the
future of this country and having these conversations. So I really, truly, you know, thank you for
having me here to having this conversation. And, you know, you ever need a follow up or, you know,
a point, you know, reach out, you know, I welcome to welcome to come back or welcome
just to chat over the phone or however we can do it. Yeah, we'll definitely get you back in here,
man. Where can people find your stuff online? Can they follow you? Can they get in contact with
you? Yeah. So at C Clem official, so that's C as in Chris and then Clem C LEM official,
that's on my X there. That's, that's the best way to get ahold of me. And, and that's, you know,
I'm active. I'm not super active, but, you know, there's usually a post every day or every couple
days, there's a lot of stuff I'll forward and comment on that is making headlines. So, yeah,
I'll even put a picture of us on that thing. Hell yeah. I'll make sure I link it all below.
You got it, man. Thanks. All right. Good night, folks.
