I'm from LA. I am. You always live there or no?
Yeah, born and raised there. Started doing graffiti there in 85. Yeah, went to
traditional art school, graduated. And the name? How'd that start? Man, okay, well, so
I didn't bring graffiti into traditional art school. I just wanted to oil paint.
So I came out and was doing a lot of freelance work kind of unhappy with it.
My instructors at Art Center are always like, you know, you grew up with graffiti
why isn't you should involve that in your work? It's what you do. It's what you've
done. It's natural. It's not forced. I knew I kind of had to reinvent my
upbringing because graffiti was such an outsider art form that it excluded people.
So yeah, I had to come up with a name and identity coming from Los Angeles. It's a
really aggressive city. So I knew I had to also pick a name that was like kind of
aggressive in Los Angeles. You know, there could be a lot of haters. So if someone
crosses you out, how are you going to come back with a good diss? So I thought what
if I instead of crossing them out, I had a shark eating their tag. You know, it
started off as a joke. Started doing sketches on the way to camp like we were
going to go camping and then there were just sort of these angry triangles that
look like KKK members. It was trippy. Started to develop more and more. I
developed the icon, put it out there in the public and started putting it up and
noticing that the community itself was really embracing the logo. There'd be
walls where the city itself would buff the wall and leave my image up there.
Yeah, like, yeah, and I was like, oh, shit, they must have liked that. Like, hey,
let's get rid of everything. But that shark, let's let's leave that, you know?
The only thing that doesn't look like vandalism. Right. And they kind of owned it
and and and felt connected to it. So that's kind of when I knew like, hey, I
might be onto something. Initially, it was shark tooth and I'm like, ah, that's
just straight, too aggressive. I also wanted a name where there wouldn't be a
number two, three and four. So where a lot of graffiti, it's like scene one, two,
three, four, you know, 29. What about the style? All that you're layering and is that
from history and oil painting? Yeah, yeah, I mean, I'm glad it's yeah, no, of
course, let's go. That's dope that you can see that and appreciate that because a
lot a lot of people trip out on the style that I that I do because a
traditional graffiti is fill outline solid and a lot of my friends make fun of
me. They're like, you know, how much paint you wasting today? You know, but yeah,
from going to art school and I feel like I've always sort of painted this way is
with layers, glazes, you know, all the colors push and pull through each other.
Texture is really important to me. What about the scale? What force you to like,
I see everything you do is like, I almost never see the exception like gallery
shit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Always big, big, big stuff. It's funny because I feel like I
need to tell people that these murals are mostly to be appreciated from a
distance. Yeah, because I feel like we're so used to looking at a painting up
close that murals are really meant to be appreciated from afar. But I also like
to give some treats along the way so you can get up there and go, oh, shit, that
cuts pretty clean or I like to make the life and like that that vibe, you know,
that presence of like this enormous thing versus it opens yourself up to
imagination. So it's like, if I see just this head, like, okay, how far back
would that body go? It's important that you kind of participate and get lost in
the fantasy of like how big is this thing? Yeah, and that's that is a graffiti
mentality to go big, go large. Yeah, you know, the taller, the bigger, the longer,
you know, so yeah, has that flavor all woven in there.
