We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world. Today's guest is the amazing John Sweeney.
John is a writer, reporter, and journalist who famously tells the stories that power and money don't want told.
He worked for the BBC for 17 years doing interviews with the likes of Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin,
as well as one of the first investigative pieces exposing Scientology in 2007.
His latest project is a six episode series called Hunting Guillain,
which investigates the life of Guillain Maxwell and tells how some of the richest and entitled people on the planet
use their money and power to silence the abused.
Hunting Guillain already hit number one on the UK Apple Podcast charts, and we cover all of it in our following conversation.
Without further ado, please enjoy this captivating conversation with John Sweeney.
Well, John, it's a pleasure to have you on here. I'm a huge fan of your work.
I actually recently came across you when I saw my friend Sean Atwood,
aka the unemployed geography teacher doing an interview with you on his YouTube channel.
Yeah, he wants a prison, but somehow they let him out. I don't understand that.
I don't know why they would let that guy out of all people.
He looks by the looks of him, he needs to go back.
Yes, he's from witness and I don't think Americans, I'm trying to think of how to geographically translate that,
but I think it's like he's from Alabama, but not the nice bits of Alabama.
Really?
It's a joke. It's a joke. He's a smart guy.
Yeah, he's super, super sharp guy. I like him a lot.
So for people out there who don't know who you are for my audience, can you give me a brief description of who is John Sweeney?
Yes, no. Okay, quickly. I used to be a kind of war reporter for the Observer.
In the 90s, then in 2000, I joined the BBC and worked there for 17 years.
I helped free a number of women who'd been falsely convicted of murdering their babies,
but I'm better known in the States because I went head-to-head with the Church of Scientology.
I lost my temper with the Church of Scientology. I'll do it now.
You ain't not there for the beginning of the interview.
You can see it on YouTube at 40 seconds. My little dog's run away. Sorry.
The Church of Scientology think that I'm a bigot, et cetera, blah, blah, blah. I think they're a cult.
I went to North Korea on the cover. I pretended to be an academic with an alcohol problem,
and the North Korean police didn't realize that we were doing it. We were making a documentary.
I challenged Trump. His name is President Trump, but Trump will do.
I challenged him about his connections with organized crime in 2013.
Donald Trump walked out on me. I challenged Vladimir Putin about the shooting down of MH17.
Putin held my gaze, and I lived to tell the tale.
In 2019, I tried to do a panorama about a far-right British guy called Tommy Robinson.
That didn't work. I felt tricked by his side and let down by the BBC, so I left.
Last year, I made a podcast called Hunting Gillen, which is about Gillen Maxwell and her father, Robert Maxwell,
and his malign influence upon her, and also about Gillen Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein, and so forth.
That hit number one in the UK, Apple Podcast Charts, and now there is a book and a TV series in the offing.
So that's in a nutshell. I like a drink, and I'm not a member of the Church of Scientology.
That's a great resume you got there.
It's okay. I've just the other day, much more interestingly, I've just become a grandfather.
Oh, really?
Yeah, it's fantastic because, I mean, I didn't do anything. Well, I did something about 30 years ago,
but basically, you can go, hello, baby.
And then, okay, here you are again. There you go. But it's kind of sweet.
You have to deal with all the great benefits of having a grandchild,
but you don't have to deal with any of the hard work of raising a child.
Yeah, and there's an old friend of mine, Jens, a Danish guy. We used to muck around in war zones together.
And Jens was quite an old guy with a beard. He looked like a Danish troll or troll, but a nice one.
And we put him in the front of the car, so when we'd hit the checkpoints with the guys with guns,
they'd see the old guy first and he looked like a kind of judge.
So we managed to get through more often than not.
But Jens said, I can remember this back in the 90s somewhere in Albania.
He said, the thing about grandchildren, they are the desserts of life.
So that's kind of, anyway, that's sweet.
So there we go.
I like that. That's a very good analogy.
Yeah.
So what let this flame for you to become an investigative journalist?
I've always, so my family, storytellers, both sides, my dad's family, my mom's family.
My mom was a, they're both from Liverpool.
And my mom's mom, single mom, my maternal grandfather left the family pretty early on.
And she was left with a nice house with a lease in Liverpool, in the centre of Liverpool.
And she ran a bed and breakfasts often for actors just who were starting out in life, who were working in the local theatre in Liverpool.
And there's a guy, some of you listeners may know, was a guy called Richard Briers, who was an actor in the 70s in Britain, famous for something called The Good Life.
And I bumped into him once on doing a story when I worked for the Observer.
And when he was making a film, and he said, oh, yes, Mrs. Owen.
Anyway, my grandma had one of them.
There's a point of this story, Danny, I'm getting there eventually.
One of my, one of her tenants was a sculptor, very posh.
And he did nudes, sculpted nudes, often men.
And one day, my granny went up, it was long before I was born, when I'm dusted, the sculptor, sculpture, and something, a bit fell off.
And this guy, let's call him Mr. Plumlee.
Mr. Plumlee came back and said, Mrs. Owen, have you been interfering with my nude?
And what had happened was she had knocked off the penis of this nude and then glued it back the wrong way round.
So this is, this is my anti-Margaret's favorite story.
And the reason I tell it to you is that I just love good stories on both sides of the family, both the Sweeney's and the Owen's, love good stories.
And I've got that in my genes, but there's something else too, which is it.
The stories that are most interesting are the stories that power and money don't want told.
And the stories, and I'm competitive about it, when somebody rich and powerful says, you shut up, all the trouble.
That's what gets me out of bed or gets me out of the pub in the evening, because I want to, I want to have, I want to tell those stories.
And so I kind of, I would always think of myself more of a storyteller, who's ended up telling stories powerful people don't want told,
than an investigative journalist.
An investigative journalist has got too many syllables in it, and it sounds a bit high and mighty, but I'm a storyteller.
And really, I kind of, I just want to be in bed or in the pub.
But the moment somebody says, you shut up, the Church of Scientology says to former members, you shut up, all the North Korean secret police, you know, say,
create this bizarre fantasy of what their dark tyranny is.
That kind of gets me going.
And then off I go.
What is your view?
Then I know you have a long history working with institutions like the BBC and more, you know, very large media institutions in the UK.
Okay, what is your view right now on the current state of media technology and social media being a journalist?
Well, by the way, the thing I forgot to mention, which I should do listeners is viewers is also a writer.
And the other day, so I've written 12 books, eight nonfiction one about Scientology one about North Korea for novels.
One of them the latest, whatever, let me find it here we go.
He's the useful idiot, which is probably reads upside down but anyway you get drift. And that's about Stalinism and fake news in 1933.
And really it's a story of two reporters in 1933 in Moscow.
There was Walter Durante who worked for the New York Times originally from Liverpool and Englishman who ended up working for the New York Times and he for example got a great scoop where he managed to interview Stalin.
But of course you don't get to interview Stalin unless you play goody two shoes.
What Walter Durante did was he told a great lie, which was there was no famine in the Soviet Union in 33.
And there was, and maybe as many as seven, seven million people died.
Now this is fake news back in 33, and there was another reporter called Gareth Jones, and he told the truth about the famine.
And he was shot dead in China two years later in 35, I believe, by the NKVD, which then become the KGB, those are the people, the secret police that Vladimir Putin worked for they're now called the FSB.
So, oh shit, I would say.
So, the problem of misinformation of lies, a big, big lies, that's not new.
There's a great French writer Gustav Flaubert who once said our ignorance of history makes us slander our own times.
Things have always been like this.
It's kind of true, or rather that's very true. But nevertheless, I found the rise and rise of social media and the, and the Wild West nature of it, scary and troubling.
I'm not a Trumpist, or whatever you call him the former guy is Joe Biden calls him but I, I thought that there is a kind of unhorsing of reason and logic and and respect for facts that have gone on that have written along with the rise and rise of social media.
And that's become frightening. And as I said, my introduction a bit in the last 2019. I tried to do this story about Tommy Robinson, the far right guy in Britain.
And I got clobbered on social media by his supporters so much so that effectively I have a presence on Facebook but it's very minimal and it's not active.
I do.
I'm on Twitter a lot at John Sweeney raw are.
They've gone away from my life.
Most of the time, but the reason they did that was that what happened was that we had a good investigation into Tommy Robinson him.
There was a bunch of the German far right in Bavaria.
For too long, the German people have lived under the guilt of Adolf Hitler. Now, you don't say that. That's a foolish thing to say.
It's a dangerous thing to say, in particular to that German far right audience in Bavaria. Don't do that.
And so all that happened was I kept on getting death threats and being threatened and being humiliated and I wasn't allowed by my big organization to fight back.
It was really, really difficult.
Eventually, I left the moment I left. I put up a video in which I'm going to swear now is what's your policy.
Okay, well, I said, I'll give you the piece of camera.
In my view, and these are not the views of the BBC.
Tommy Robinson, you're a Nazi cunt.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Now the benefit of that this is I'm drinking Italian red.
By the way, you will not.
This is a beautiful wine from Italy.
You're drinking something disgusting.
Terrible.
And that's why I worry about American civilization.
Yeah, it's either this or Jack Daniels.
Yeah, I mean, that's okay.
As a kind of tranquilizer, but this is nice. Anyway, never mind that.
Stop being a wine snob.
The, it was horrible being attacked on social media in this way.
The moment I put that video out and it's got something like, did it on Twitter two minutes, and it's got something like half a million views or more.
The heat went from Tommy Robinson supporters, because these people can smell fear.
It was a simple message. I'm not afraid of you.
And I had the clip of Robinson in Germany talking about Adolf Hitler in the way that he did in the film.
And so that the pressure from that crazy far right community went away because they could tell that actually it wasn't me who was afraid of them.
It was my bosses at the BBC.
But I fundamentally do not believe that people I when I post stuff on Twitter.
Everybody knows it's me. I am John Sweeney Raw. I am me.
I don't think anonymity causes is a thing for good because it means that I mean I know there are various arguments for it but essentially, it means that you can get a pile on from people who can behave dreadfully because they're doing it behind a curtain.
We don't know who they are.
I don't think that's good. I don't think it's good for the public square. I don't think it's good for for democracy or the rule of law and some of these people aren't American or British.
They're Russian, the Russian bots know we know this, or they're Chinese and they can be North Korean or they can be anybody. I don't know who they are.
So, I, you know, that's a problem.
All of this feels less heated now that Joe one.
By the way, I told you about my, my granddaughter, her name Shaila, and she, she's a smart cookie.
So, in March, she bet 500 quid on Joe Biden to win.
Really?
By the way, bet £10,000 on Trump to win. And, and I'm not a Shaila's not a rich, she wasn't born at that moment.
But being an astute person, she bet the money anyway. I don't know how she did it, but she bet it and she won £750.
I know John Ossoff, the Democrat contender in Georgia, I've been on the drink with him in London when he was working in London, and both him and his friend, like they were working on a TV company to get where I was a friend of his friend.
John Ossoff said, you've got to run, you've got to run, you've got to run for senator. And I thought, you know, Shaila must think that actually John Ossoff's going to win.
So I put another 500 quid on Ossoff to win and Shaila won 650 quid on that.
So essentially, before she was born, she could retire.
Wow.
So, that's a joke, but I worry about the unhorsing of fact at the same time. I also get it, in part because my mum and dad were Liverpool working class.
And I was, I'm middle class, not working class, I'm using British class terms here, you're going to have to translate them for your audience.
But I also get it, there were way too many posh people at the BBC, who had a rather, there's a comic from my childhood called Abino, and they had a character in it called Lord Snooty, who wore a top hat.
And there are too many Lord Snooty types in the media, in the mainstream media, in governments, in politics and civil service, and they look down on people who, who ended up voting for Trump and voting for Brexit.
Now, I wouldn't vote for Trump if I was American and I didn't vote for Brexit, but I get it that these, there are many, many people who are good people, who are lovely people, who if I could share a drink or a chat with them wherever they were,
and I would enjoy their company, and I know that if something bad happened, they would do the right thing. I'm confident of that.
Who have, I think in my view have been duped. And so we've got to listen to those people who voted for Brexit and voted for Trump, and at the same time, and we've got to be critical while we're reflecting them.
Now what's happening at the moment is the media is, I think it's reflecting things like Black Lives Matter and anxieties about trans, and so forth and so on.
But at the same time, I'm, I am uncomfortable that nearly all of my colleagues on the Newsnight, on the BBC shows I worked on, Newsnight and Panorama, were posh.
And didn't get what ordinary people would be thinking, the majority of ordinary people, and there's an anxiety about that.
Now weirdly, I think that COVID has helped to reset some of that balance. I do think that 2016 was a poison year.
And what's happened with COVID is we get it that society matters, that working with others matters, that some of the lowest paid people in our societies have been the,
have been the best of us. I'm talking about the, you know, the Amazon delivery people, my bin men, who I just, these days when they empty my bins, I say thank you, all of that stuff.
I'm a Londoner, that's kind of new civility. So there's something, so there was a big anxiety in 2016, 2017, 2018.
And one of that is my knowledge of, of the Kremlin, of what's happening because I've met Putin, of I can see that Putin is manipulating things behind the scenes.
And that led me to real disquiet.
At the same time, I think that, that Joe, Joe's got something in Britain, we're still carrying on with Brexit, I don't think it's going to work, I think it's a silly mistake to put kind of nationalism above the best possible trade deal you could get.
That's my view.
I also think that the media have been too elitist for too long. And there is, and there isn't a proper correction on that. So at the moment, the problem, which the media has created in, in part for itself, they haven't properly addressed it.
They're addressing some of the easier things, but not some of the other stuff, which is that if everybody. So for example in British terms, there would be hardly anybody where I work, who was on benefit, who knew family members who are on benefit.
Everybody went to Oxbridge and all that kind of stuff. One of my friends is a guy called Aaron Phillips who is very, very good to get a fantastic series for the BBC about Robert Murdoch.
He's Welsh working class and he feels this much more passionately than I do.
Hardly any friends at the BBC who were working class because there were hardly any working class people at the BBC. I kind of sort them out because they're more fun and clever and smarter because they've risen with nothing very little.
I'm going on too much.
No, no, no, not at all.
Well, it seems now, I mean,
where are you? So, but I know where I'm in Florida.
Right.
Have you ever been to Florida?
Florida.
Have you ever been to Mar-a-Lago?
I've heard of Mar-a-Lago. Yes, I have.
I've been to Florida.
At some point, we were doing some crazy thing for panorama where you, you get so embedded in the story. You don't know.
You forget what's happening.
And we, when we flew into a kind of cat five hurricane and we ended up staying in a hotel suite where Jolo would normally stay for nothing because there were no hotels and we managed to anyway.
So yeah, I've been to Florida.
Yeah.
Florida is a, Florida is a decent place.
It's all right.
Is it, is there snow?
No snow.
Are you, are you not living in an igloo at the moment?
No, I have never seen snow in Florida.
I was born here and I've been here for my entire life.
I've still never seen snow here.
Texas is covered though.
Yeah.
Texas because Texas is continent.
It's colder in the inland.
It's away from the sea.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Inland.
It's a little bit colder.
Plus it's quite a bit farther north than where I'm in Florida.
Right.
I'm in the middle of Florida on the, on the golf coast.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So are you near?
Are you a member of the church of Scientology?
I can hit a golf ball and hit them.
The main building on Fort Harrison.
Oh wow.
I've had, I've had a guy by the name of Mike Rinder.
Have you answered the question?
Are you a member of the church?
I am not a member of the church.
Okay.
Go, go, go.
Okay.
We can carry on talking.
Yeah.
You know, we're great friends.
Mike and I,
He's been on my podcast.
Yeah.
So Mike left.
He owes me a lot.
Mike left the church of Scientology because of me.
I would say, I don't know.
Have you, have you seen,
have you seen the film we made, which is on YouTube?
I have not seen the film that you guys made though.
I've seen the HBO documentary going clear.
Yes.
So by the way, if you're, if people are super nutty about Scientology,
they can watch the two films,
which I think are flying around on YouTube.
One of which is called the first one is Scientology and Me,
in which I scream.
The second is, um, uh,
Scientology Secrets of the Stars.
Mike's big in that.
And then I've written a book called Scientology,
Church of Fear, which you can get their Amazon.
And the, um,
and maybe we can do some linky things so people can see this stuff.
Absolutely.
Um, but so what happens is that.
Excuse me.
When I screamed at Scientology because they made me go nuts.
There were two PR men who are on my case the whole time.
Tommy Davis is the guy I screamed at directly,
but standing next to him looking gray and ash and the whole time with Mike
Rinder and Mike Rinder had been in the hole.
And when I arrived in the States, um, David Miscavige,
the Pope of Scientology got him out the hole to handle me, to deal with me.
Mike Rinder was in that video when you're screaming at the guy.
Is he is on the edge.
If you, if you watch the whole 30 minute documentary.
Okay.
So Mike Rinder is the other, is the other minder.
And what happened was that, um,
essentially there were dozens of them.
There was only normal BBC thing, BBC, by the way,
I bitch about it all the time.
It's a lovely thing.
I still believe in it and I still pay my license fee.
Um, there was a brilliant producer called Sarah Moll and there was a
fantastic, um, cameraman called Bill Brown.
Um, the, the production was from BBC Northern Ireland.
And so, um, um,
bills from Belfast and all of the BBC Northern Irish cameraman are
fantastically brave because they do in the seventies and eighties.
They did rights all the time.
So that's their upbringing.
They're really, really good.
Anyway, um, Sarah has a plan, which is she's from Essex.
I'm going to, um, uh, do her accent for you.
Here, John, you've seen Jurassic Park, ain't ya?
Yes, I have, Sarah.
So in Jurassic Park, there's that bit, isn't there,
when there's a goat and it's Tevin.
And then the T-Rex comes and gets it.
Right then.
You can bleak, can't ya?
So my job was to be the Tevin goats.
And what we would do, because she'd analysed it,
she'd watched Scientology attack people like me who were trying
to investigate them.
And what they would do was ambush somebody like me in the middle
of the night, um, which Scientology did when you put the camera
away.
So we were defenseless.
What happened was that Sarah made it a rule that whenever we were
out, I had, um, the two of us, uh, Bill had his big camera and
Sarah had a small camera and they were fully charged and on at all
times.
And if the big camera wasn't charged, we'll put it down because
we're going for a meal at the very end of the day.
Sarah would have the little small camera in case something happened.
This is before mobile phones really got going, 2007.
And, uh, before there were phones and video and mobile phones.
So also I had two sound mics on me, um, with two packs in case one
failed.
By the way, going to the loo with two bloody sound mics.
It's like, it's like something nightmare.
It's like a scene in Chernobyl.
Um, it's like bloody annoying.
Anyway, those are the rules because she knew that they would come for
us.
And lo and behold, they came for us at midnight at the hotel, but we
filmed it and, and I, um, I'm good at this stuff.
And I, and I fired back and I said, listen, you've been spying of
this.
And this is a bit creepy, frankly.
Um, anyway, it's, it was a fantastic battle.
Um, and I was the Tevin goats and eventually I got sick of the
fuckers and the Tevin goat turned into a Tevin rhino and I fucking
charged them.
That's all of that.
The BBC thought about sacking me, but then they thought, well,
sorry, let's go for it.
This is before Twitter, 2007.
The film goes out and then you get hundreds and hundreds of
emails, the next members of the church who fall in love with me
who, um, and two emails I love in particular.
One is Mr. Sweeney or my hero.
But then I am the vice president of the Royal College of
Psychiatry because psychiatrists get it in the net from
Scientology and therefore I became a pinup of international
psychiatry because I had to go at Scientology.
It's so bonkers.
Tell a quick story.
When I was in trouble, real psychological trouble, psychiatric
trouble with the Tommy Robinson attacks and not being allowed to
defend myself by the BBC.
Eventually I had to go sick and I saw a psychiatrist and the
psychiatrist said, before we start, Mr. Sweeney, I really enjoyed
your film about Scientology.
Then the BBC hired a second psychiatrist, a professor of
psychiatry who was going to check my psychiatrist who said that
I've been put under impossible work stress and therefore they
couldn't sack me in the way they were trying to sack me.
And, um, my, uh, the professor of psychiatry said, Mr.
Sweeney, before we start, I just want to say, I really liked
your film about Scientology.
What do you want me to write?
That's amazing.
It's true.
The, um, it's true.
I said the high-pitched voice.
I don't know why.
I'm somebody who kind of lies all the time apart from when I go
high-pitched, it's true.
But, um, no, that's, none of those things are true.
Actually some, anyway, never mind.
I'm getting back to the main event.
So Scientology was completely weird, mindfuck.
It's an evil cult.
Um, they, if you don't know, I'm going to tell you anyway, um,
I'm well aware that they, um, they believe, um, that, um,
75 million years ago, an evil space alien Lord called Lord
Saino brought space aliens to Earth and, um,
killed them with H bombs in volcanoes, but the spiritual
remains of those space aliens called Theatons have stuck to us
and cause madness in humanity, et cetera, et cetera.
And only Scientology will clear the view of this.
And if I tell anybody this, I will die and they may die
because of the power of the story.
And frankly, I've been doing little else since 2007 in any pub
in London or Manchester or wherever I am in the world.
Uh, somebody's sitting me down and then I start telling them
about Scientology and here I am.
I'm still very much alive.
So I am living proof that Scientology is a load of bollocks.
I found it so fascinating that Mike Render actually,
spent time with L Ron Hubbard and did he, he didn't tell me that,
but he was in it.
He was actually met him.
Yeah.
He didn't, uh, he didn't tell me that anyway, what happened was
at one point I, because we had hours and hours and hours of
them filming us, me filming them.
They're trying to, they're trying to break me and to break me,
they bring me in a bit into, into the Scientology tent and then
break me and Sarah and Bill, my colleagues, um, uh, they film
everything.
We've got so much in the cam, but we start having, uh, we,
we kind of stopped filming.
And one of these moments I asked, uh, Tommy Davis and Mike
Render, could I interview David Mascabbage?
He, by the way, is the Pope of Scientology, but unlike,
for example, the Pope in Rome, David Mascabbage is alleged to
denies it to go around smacking people.
He would like, he get pissed off with me.
He'd smack me if I was a member of the church.
That's what people, Mike Render says that happened to him.
Bang, bang, bang.
And, um, um, I say, I'd like to interview David Mascabbage.
I want to interview your Pope and Mike Render says, well,
you're not going to do that, John, because, and I said, why
not?
Because you're an asshole.
At which point Sarah, the Essex girl, who's got a wonderful
sense of humor goes, and she loses it, just starts giggling.
And Bill, who's a much tough, who, Sarah, they're both tough,
but Bill, who's a tough looking guy, starts to laugh too.
And both of them are corpsing because I'm not interviewing
some doggies at Pope because I'm an asshole.
But Mike Render realized that although my team were mocking me,
taking the piss out of me, as we'd say in English English, they
also kind of had my back and they kind of, you know, we loved
each other, we liked each other and we were a gang.
And in our gang, the, um, the two people behind the camera
couldn't take the piss out of me, could mock me.
And, and we still liked each other.
It was still good fun.
It didn't matter.
It was normal.
But in his gang, he had to express faulty to the Pope.
He had to, he could never mock him.
He could never, he could never give, he could never be a
normal human being.
And I think that was the moment when Mike realized he'd rather
be in the BBC's gang than in the Scientology gang.
After a lot of heartbreak for Mike, because it meant breaking
with his family, who were still inside his mother, his sister,
his brother, his kids, he left.
And three years later, he sat down and I interviewed him.
And he told me everything.
What was frustrating at the time was the power of the BBC,
sorry, the British labor laws meant that we couldn't put in the
smacking allocations.
And it was actually Alex Gibney and Lawrence Wright who did that
story in Going Clear.
But I'm in the Going Clear documentary, which is so properly
unfair, so rigorous about Scientology.
They have them shouting at me, but not me shouting at them,
which strikes me as being a bit funny, but there we go.
Anyway, if people are interested, they should chase those
films we made for Panorama.
The first one we did was in 2007.
So although Going Clear got bigger punches, we attacked
Scientology first.
And of that, I'm very proud.
I'm going to watch that.
Anyway, so Mike, having broken from Scientology,
we organized a kind of event in Florida on the Gulf Coast where
you could hit a Gulf up the road from Scientology.
What's it called?
St. Petersburg.
Clearwater, yeah.
Up the road from there in a hotel.
And there was about 100 ex-members of the Church of Scientology.
This is very early on.
And me and my then-misses were split up, but we were still great
and invited out.
And it was the most they paid for us to go there.
And it felt like being inside Galaxy Quest.
There were the fans who were ex-members of the Church of
Scientology.
And the thing is, I mean, I didn't do this, but had I charged
$5 to do the shout, you were not there, I would have cleaned up
because everybody wanted a video of me or picture of me going,
you were not there.
And they cleaned and treated me like a god.
And I had to say, listen, you've left the god, the crazy god.
By the way, I was brought up a Catholic.
I get religious belief, I understand it.
I'm still a bit of a Catholic myself, not very much, but a bit.
So I don't want to knock other people's religious belief.
I don't think Scientology is a religion.
I think it's a money-making device.
Party scheme.
It's a Ponzi scheme, or it's like the mafia, or the Coca-Cola
corporation, or all three.
But it's not a religion in my book.
Never mind.
But there was some exciting cultish about me being Scientology's
devil.
But Mike invited me to his wedding.
And that really is, for Mike, this heavy-duty Scientologist
as he was.
And he was still, for a time, he believed in the works of Hubbard,
but didn't like the church, the thing.
And I think now he's out, out.
But for a time, anyway, in the middle of all of this,
there am I at his bloody wedding.
And it was wonderful and good.
And there's something I'm going to struggle to make a serious
point here.
But for a time, in particular, in 2016, 2017,
with the rise of Islamic State in the Middle East
and terrible atrocities in Europe, in London,
I reported on all five of them, I think,
for the, or four of them for the BBC.
There was a counterattack by, against the mosque in North
London by a right-wing fruitcake.
And there were attacks in the States, too, as well.
How do you deal with people who have been brainwashed into
believing that we are the enemy?
And Scientology is fundamentally silly, in my view.
And although it has a ton of money,
it doesn't have many adherents.
However, I think it's important to study it
and to understand it.
Because if we can work out how to unbrainwash
members of the Church of Scientology,
we might be able to work out how to unbrainwash
people who are adherents of Islamic States
or who believe that North Korea is the one,
people in the North Korean military believe that
North Korea is wonderful.
How do we unlock that brainwashing is important.
And that's why, psychologically, it's interesting.
Now, the guy who's done a ton of thinking about this
is a wonderful American military psychiatrist
originally called Professor Robert Lifton,
who wrote the first book about brainwashing,
using that term, Thought Reformer Brainwashing.
And he'd been the military psychiatrist called in
to treat American GIs who'd been brainwashed
by the Chinese communists, the Maoists,
at the end of the Korean Civil War.
So these guys, American GIs, had been caught
and been brainwashed.
And his job was to try and treat them and reverse that.
And he came away and wrote this book called
Thought Reformer Brainwashing, which is fascinating.
Then Richard Condon, I think, read that book
and then wrote The Manchurian Candidate,
which was a great and successful novel
about a brainwashed candidate for presidency.
And then that, obviously, was written
in the film of Frank Sinatra.
Then it lay low for a bit.
And then the Israelis re-versioned that story
of somebody who'd been kidnapped
and brainwashed by Hezbollah,
turning into an Israeli politician.
And an Israeli soldier had been brainwashed.
And then Holmen came along and pinched that story
from the Israeli drama and re-versioned it again.
All of which tells you there are no new plots in Hollywood.
But also that this is a big thing.
So that Scientology isn't just a wacky, vicious money thing.
It also might help you unlock stuff.
One of the things that Lifton talks about,
and I believe this passionately,
is that the authoritarian mind
or the totalitarian mind abhors humor.
It has no tolerance for mockery or a sense of humor.
And therefore, you've got to like and admire
and support tolerance and mockery
in our leaders and in our own in our own doings.
And part of the reason, I think, as I said,
that Mike Rinder left the Scientology gang
and joined the slightly rubbish BBC panorama gang
was because we had more fun
and my colleagues could mock me and nothing would happen.
And I laughed along too.
And that is a central thing.
And there's all sorts of fascinating military edges to this.
So one of my heroes is General Bill Slim,
who was the general in charge of the Forgotten Army,
the British in Burma, the Japanese attacks.
And the problem is all the money and all the resources
were for the Battle of Europe, defeating the Nazis
or the battle in the Pacific,
where the Americans are smashing the Japanese Navy.
There's no money and there's no resources in Burma,
but that's where Bill Slim is.
And then you have the longest retreat
in the history of the British Army,
a thousand miles backwards,
and then the longest advance in the history
of the British Army, a thousand miles forwards.
And Bill ends up...
They build their own...
There are huge rivers, a thousand yards across in Burma,
and they built...
I ended up building so many boats
that had more ships than the Royal Navy,
and they had elephants.
And I've written a book.
Don't go away.
This is my elephant book, Elephant Moon.
This is sold 200,000 copies.
And I love the story.
There's a bunch of elephant teak men,
i.e. these are teak foresters who use elephants.
They chop down the trees,
and then the elephants push them down the rivers,
and they own the sawmill
towards the capital.
And basically these massive teak logs go down the river,
and when they get to the sawmill,
they're stopped and they're chopped up.
So the elephant men spend their entire lives
up in the forests, chopping down teak trees,
elephants pushing them along.
And what happens is a Japanese attack,
and then the elephants are incredibly valuable
because they can work in the jungle that no one else can.
And they're escaping the Japanese on their way to India.
And they come across a bus full of mixed-race kids
from an orphanage who are the sons and daughters,
mainly the daughters of British engineers,
oil engineers, teak men,
and their Burmese comfort women,
and American oil engineers,
a lot of oil in Burma, now Myanmar.
But this is the human stain of empire.
And these are embarrassing kids.
And so they haven't been flown or taken ship
to the safety of India.
They've left because they've got no money,
and the people running the orphanage have got no money,
and therefore they've had to walk out,
and they're all going to die.
And then suddenly this herd of working teak elephant arrive,
and the Japanese have sunk the last ferry,
so there's no way they can cross the last river,
the chin wind, to get to the safety of India.
And their teachers with them says,
well, have you got a ferry?
And the elephant man in my book,
his real name is Bill, in my book I called him Sam.
The elephant man says, well,
we don't need a ferry because the children can ride
on the back of the elephants.
But we're only taking you across the river.
Anyway, they then, between the,
then on the other side of the river,
there's a range of mountains.
And I chuck in a Nazi in the, in the story
because Hollywood likes Nazis.
Make it film somebody. Anyway.
A couple Nazis.
But Bill Slim had this rule,
returning to the point,
that anybody could say anything in his officer groups,
the O groups.
They had a plan to defeat the Japanese and build a block.
And Bill said, what can I do?
Bill set it out.
All his colonel said, yes, that's going to be great.
All the majors said, yes.
The lowliest officers, officer there,
a weather lieutenant put up his hand and said,
it's going to rain.
IE, this plan will not work.
And Bill writes in his book,
defeating the victory.
I wanted to shoot him.
But he doesn't.
He puts that story in.
To, to show a sense of humor about his own,
about how his own ambition was hold by the common sense
of a lowly officer.
But Bill allowed that officer to tell him the truth.
And also made a joke about it,
which means that's the better way to organize things
because disaster strikes when stuff gets blocked up,
they're not say to the, to the boss.
There's trouble.
One of the things.
So to answer your question,
I believe in a free media.
I believe in free speech,
but I believe in facts too as well.
And I believe that our job is to call power to account.
And I was troubled and troubled by the,
the crazy insanity of much online stuff.
And I think it should be policed in, for example,
that people should only be who they are.
If you post stuff on social media,
you, we need to know who you are.
No, no, no, no anonymous.
That's, that's over for me.
So I was thinking the other day it's a friend of mine.
His daughter is doing a, an exam.
We wanted to ask me about Putin's invasion of Crimea.
Seizing a bit of land in 2014.
And this is a no, no,
because the settlement after the Second World War is,
we don't pinch anybody's land again.
You can break up a country like Yugoslavia into bits.
Yugoslavia doesn't get, it doesn't invade Italy.
That's, that's a no, no.
And in 2014, Putin broke that rule.
And this, my friend's daughter wanted to know,
I would kind of ask him.
And the thing is that I was, I was in Ukraine later that summer,
not for the spring, but I was there in the summer.
And I reported on the shooting down of MH17
and end up door stepping Putin.
But why did this happen?
One of the reasons I think it happened is because
that Putin has ended up, some say,
killing off an independent media.
By which, I mean, people like Anna Protetovsky
ended up being shot dead on his birthday.
Now, he probably didn't order that somebody else did,
but whoever ordered it has never been found.
The killers or some people who have been accused of killing
it have ended up being locked up,
but not the people who commissioned the murder.
The reason, and this was a mistake.
At the moment, the sanctions for the Kremlin,
like 2% of the Russian economy,
$100 billion, a hit, but it's 2% of GDP.
It's not, it's a slap on the wrist.
It's not a big thing.
But nevertheless, the West aren't going to back down on this.
With Joe Biden and the White House,
there's more trouble for Trump, I think, down the track.
The reason Putin made this mistake
is that there's nobody telling him,
don't do this, boss, because it's a mistake.
Because he switched off the free media.
The reason why Trump lost it in the end,
even though, as I've said earlier,
I get it that Trump spoke to an awful lot of the left behind people
and that they felt a kind of gut belief and faith in him.
At the end, Trump lost it
because he started to believe his own propaganda.
And there was nobody in his network
who was saying, don't do this, boss,
because you're attacking another pillar
of the American constitution.
Don't do this.
Now, in the early days,
weirdly, people like Steve Bannon,
who I abhor, but he's got a...
He had cojones.
He would argue with Trump.
He would argue with Ivanka and all of that.
And then the other people around him, the generals,
they were good people. They were smart.
People like Mattis, his first...
The oil man, I've forgotten his name,
the first of the State Department,
they were big people.
Rex Guy Tillerson, I think his name was.
Rex Tillerson. And then who was the...
Who was his, whatever you call it,
his chief of staff who was a military guy as well.
There was a general who was pretty good.
His name escapes me right now.
But you know those people.
By the end, they're all gone.
And you want...
You want, if you're in power,
you need people to say, boss, don't do this.
Because it's a mistake.
And Putin had shot those people.
Literally, perhaps, metaphorically, certainly.
The Kremlin denies any wrongdoing.
So what you've got is a failure of that function.
And I think that happened with late Trump as well.
There's a moment in particular after the election,
where I think he blows it for constitutional conservatives,
for Republicans who wanted to vote for him.
And that, by the way, is when my granddaughter, Shia,
I'm not yet born, it's about 500 quid,
on Jon Ossoff to win Georgia.
Because I couldn't imagine good Republicans
really wanting to vote for Trump,
because he was going so crazy.
What was that moment that he said something?
I think he was taped
calling up the guy in charge of fair voting,
of proper voting, saying we need 11,000 votes.
I mean, it was like a mobster.
It was Al Capone's style.
What do you think about him getting banned from Twitter?
I was in favor of it.
I'm in favor of it, because...
Hold on.
As ever, I want to tell a story.
I'm an old man. I drink too much.
I have to get up at 4 o'clock in the morning, go for a piss.
What I would do, I couldn't get to sleep.
I'd go onto Twitter, and then Trump had said something.
You know, he played Kissy Kissy with Kim Jong-un.
I've been to North Korea.
It's a dark, evil place.
Kim Jong-un is a tyrant and a sadist.
There is no value in playing nicey-nicey with this guy.
And Trump didn't do it.
That was appalling.
The way he paled around with Putin, appalling,
the way he diminished and demeaned and was horrible
to his democratic allies in Europe and in the United Kingdom
was horrible, horrible, horrible.
These days, I couldn't sleep, because I was sick with worry.
Now that Trump is out and off Twitter,
I wake up at 4 in the morning.
I go for a piss.
I switch on Twitter.
Nothing is happening.
I switch it off.
I go to sleep again.
I wake up at 8 o'clock thinking,
crikey, World War III hasn't happened.
It's okay.
I walk the dog and have breakfast.
I mean, like, like, like, so that there was something mad about it.
Now, I believe in free speech.
And I didn't.
And by the way, I mean this.
I thought about suing Tommy Robinson,
the far right guy who made my life a misery and effectively
ended my career at the BBC, although BBC managers
should have played it differently in my view.
But I didn't sue him.
And I don't want him to be shut down completely.
But I felt very grateful when he was killed when Facebook
cut him off shortly after he put out a video attacking me
because it meant the heat I was getting from his anonymous
supporters was switched off.
I don't think people have a right to abuse other people.
And much of what Tommy Robinson said about me was utterly
unreasonable and untrue.
They have a right to do that to anonymous supporters.
And the second wave of the anonymous supporters hating you
is terrifying.
I don't.
That doesn't square with me with having free speech.
Now, this is difficult because I do think that an elitist
and too rich to posh in English English media.
Stop listening to working class people in Britain.
And the same problem applied in Europe and the United States.
Part of this is the change in the nature of our societies.
For example, the Labour Party used to represent the working
class in a very clear way.
And the Conservatives used to represent people with money.
Culturally in Britain, that switched.
So what happens now is the Conservatives are doing a lot
better with the working class on cultural issues.
The working class is much smaller.
It used to be four or maybe five out of 10 Brits.
And now it's something like two out of 10 Brits.
Basically what you've got is six out of 10 Brits are middle
class in a big band, but they're middle class.
And then you've got 20% who are poor and maybe,
or actually maybe seven out of 10 are middle class.
And then you've got 10% are very rich and then 20% are poor.
But those poor people and the people in particular who
haven't had a, who are undereducated or haven't had a good
education, they are moving to the right in a way that's
happening.
And you can see also that happen in Europe.
I know it's really best, I suppose, because I go there as
often as I can because the food and wine is so wonderful.
And you see this again, this pattern repeating and
repeating and repeating.
So I feel that the media and the people who run places have
kind of stopped listening to the left behind.
And I don't like that.
And that's a problem.
And at the same time, the right and the far right have
seized the Wild West and have gone for it, this opportunity.
It feels that switching off Trump for telling lies about the
election was a necessary thing.
He can still appeal, you know, he can still say whatever he
wants and the media will get the story out.
But this, the electricity of him being able to whip up his
supporters, that's gone.
And I think that's fundamentally a good thing.
I know, by the way, I'm a huge admirer of Alexei Navalny.
Who?
Alexei Navalny is the Russian, the effective leader of the
opposition who's in prison at the moment.
Do you know who he is?
No, I don't know who he is.
So you've got to, Danny, he's a hero.
He's put out, so what happened to him was he doesn't like Putin
and he's after him.
And he's getting traction.
Putin's been in power for 20 years.
There are Russian voters now, 18, 19, 20 year olds who have only
known Vladimir Putin in power.
And that's boring.
And also Russia isn't doing very well because it is
fundamentally horribly corrupt.
And Alexei Navalny calls Vladimir Putin the czar of corruption.
I've met Navalny a couple of times.
His supporters get stabbed and tased and beaten up.
But Navalny keeps on going for it.
Last year he was poisoned.
He was on a plane, started screaming, fell into a coma.
The pilot landed the plane in Siberia.
Doctors raced out, jabbed him with the right stuff.
And he was flown to Germany where the German doctors discovered
he'd been poisoned by Novichok.
Novichok is a nerve agent.
You cannot buy this in a shop.
It's created by the Russian secret states.
And they poisoned this guy.
He survived.
He's got balls of steel.
And he went back to Russia and has just been arrested.
And he's banged up again.
He's serving three years or they've given him three years basically
on Trump's up charges.
He's inside for two days when a video he's made pops up.
He made it in Germany and it's about Putin's palace.
He says, watch the video and it's fantastic.
It's in Russian but subtitled in English.
And it's like two hours long and it's wonderful stuff.
But Putin has built himself.
Well, Putin's cronies have built him a billion pound.
Like a 1.1 a heart.
Sorry.
A 1.5 billion dollar palace on the shores of the black sea.
See pictures with toilet brushes.
That are worth $700.
Crazy.
Absolutely crazy with a with a hooker room,
a room where you can smoke Hubble bubble pipes.
With a stripper's pole in it and you can see the detail of it.
And the point is that it's created.
It's been paid for by his rich scum oligarchs.
But you know it's his because you can't go there.
And if you try and go there,
you get arrested by the secret police and there's a two mile exclusions
and ships can't go near it because they might be a terrorist thing.
It's the president's palace.
This video goes up two days after the values are arrested
because they've held it back.
And 120 million people have watched it on YouTube.
So it's it's really big.
Now this is now valentino Putin.
Never calls the valley by his name kind of like Lord Voldemort.
And I've actually met them and I said,
and on my Twitter, I'm on Twitter at John Sweeney raw.
And I there's a film called taking on Putin,
which is somewhere on YouTube.
But I actually challenge.
Oh, I say to the valley why why does why doesn't he name you?
And he said because I'm Lord Voldemort.
The thing about the valley is very, very funny.
He's got a real wit and he's got a mate who's a bit fat in the valleys.
He's he's he's got a beautiful wife, two lovely kids,
but he's got a fat sidekick who is now my forgotten who does a kind of grungy bits.
And there's one moment where the valley's sitting talks very intensely directly to camera.
And he's obviously in the nice cafe somewhere in Germany where he's talking all this stuff.
And it's very, very funny. And then it cuts to his fat mate on a little dingy driving to work.
We're going to the palace.
So it's it's genuinely really, really funny and and and brave as fuck.
So people say, what the fuck did the valley go back to Russia because they tried to kill him.
They tried to kill him.
And the thing is, they could kill him in Germany.
They could kill him in Britain.
They could kill him in the States.
So he's daring them to kill him.
And he's incredibly brave.
But the valley has said, I don't agree with Twitter switching off Trump.
Because the valley needs needs social media because he's avoiding the mainstream media and Russia won't deal with him because it's controlled by the Kremlin.
The difference for me is the attack on the capital is a line in the sand.
And basically, as I said earlier, but the problem is that Trump lost the smart brave people around him and said, don't do this boss because it's it's a crossing of the line.
And I can't do not think it's right to do this in particular.
If your supporters are anonymous, because then then what what what means is that if you're you're trying to how can you defend democracy if people threaten to kill you anonymously in this space.
I don't believe in free speech the whole way, but I'm saying, I also note with some anxiety that the valley disagrees with me.
But I think Russia is in the United States to different places.
So but I'm putting forward the counter argument, but I'm sticking with I'm pleased that the Trump was kicked off Twitter.
You've you've done at least one extensive interview with Trump personally, right?
I've done I've, yeah.
And that was regarding some sort of hotel he was building in Scotland.
Yeah, he's he's such a cunt.
Can I say that?
I'm going to finish.
I've got a bottle of Italian Amarone, which I'm going to bring up because this interview is going to last forever.
I'm going to go grab my bottle of tequila too.
So hold on.
Let's do this now.
Let's Trump succumbed.
Hold that thought.
I'm going to get the bottle.
Perfect.
There you go.
What do you have there?
There's an advertising Amarone.
Cantina Di Negra.
And this is from
somewhere beautiful in Italy.
Negra Di Vapolicella.
Italia.
Doesn't say where it's really nice.
Can you get that in the United States?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I would.
Yes.
I'm sure you can.
Anyway.
It's what I'm drinking.
You're drinking.
George Clooney tequila.
It's called Costa amigos.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's got George.
He
Lake Como really is very beautiful.
I'm trying.
I'm writing.
I'm trying to write a novel about a.
An Englishman who parachuted into Lake Como during the war.
And.
Was arrested.
He was being brought up in Italian in Italy and spoke fluent Italian.
But.
The British dropped them in on a full moon 1943 in the Americans
had just bombed Milan.
So all the rich people had gone left Milan.
To free the bombs and gone to their villas around Lake Como.
And they'd watched like 10,000 of them.
Watch this poor British spy.
And everybody's watching him and he's instantly arrested.
And.
He's beaten up.
Slap, slap, slap.
And then in my novel.
He gets his first good coffee.
He's happy because he's been in Britain since 1939.
He gets his first good coffee for four years.
Oh God, this is good.
And there's a beautiful woman says, you know,
how are you?
And this is it.
This is Italy.
You know, I get beaten up.
I get a beautiful coffee.
Beautiful woman.
I miss Italy so much.
Incredible.
I've missed it.
So.
I must work out.
What I missed it.
So it's.
I'm trying to learn.
You know, Italian.
My challenge rubbish, frankly.
So Trump.
So the first of all, one should always be fair.
Trump is.
One of those people.
Who are instantly and obviously hard ruthless.
And you've got to admire.
The power of the verbal punch they pack.
Like he's not a very intelligent speaker,
but the way he speaks, he like,
he's not just a bad guy.
He just like dumbs it down for people.
He like, he, the way he speaks,
he, he hits a primal part of your brain.
That just makes certain people react very strongly.
Yes.
You're dealing with a primeval monster.
Who, who takes you back into the slime from whence we came.
the gut. And if you don't look after yourself with him, he'll hurt you. And because you know that
it's right to fear him, the problem is managing your fear while you're dealing with him,
because he can say something so vicious that it can silence you, or you're left gasping.
And I think what happened with Hilary was that Hilary never quite got through. There's a beautiful
moment thinking of my unborn granddaughter's bet of 500 quid on Joe to win. When Joe says to him,
well, you just shut up, man, remembering the first debate. And that was a kind of wonderful
moment because it's so like Joe's, well, I was, you know, Joe's obviously he's going on a bit,
he's granddad, I can't remember where the keys to the garage are, he's a bit gargar. But he's not,
he's not a patsy. One of my favorite movies. Now, how have we got the right title? The last show
with Art Carney? Have you seen it? No, a wonderful movie. It's in the 70s. And it's about Art Carney,
who's a wonderful actor who in real life had a limp. And so he limps. And he's an old private
and he speaks in 1940s. Raymond Chandler, the big sleep style slang. And he, there's a crazy
hippie woman who comes to him with some stuff about a cat. But behind the cat story, something
dark is happening. And in this kind of moment of poetry and beauty, the old private eye
slowly untangles the darkness, the gangsters, and becomes a hero.
Even though he's old, he's got something wrong with him. He's got some kind of bad
stomach ulcer. And every now and he collapses. And at one point, the baddies beat him up and he
coughs blood. And then a critical moment, the baddies have got the upper hand and he collapses.
But he's mucking about and he's got his gun. And he says, listen, son, you're in trouble.
And it's kind of beautiful. And there was a moment, the moment when Joe said, listen,
once you shut up, was the Art Carney moment in the, in that debate. And it was,
and the thing about Joe was that Joe isn't money. And he kind of gets standing up for himself and
standing up for the people he represents. So there was, although granddad is a bit,
is far too old and doesn't know where he's left the keys, he's up for a fight. That was a sweet
moment. Trump's very impressive. The other thing which is squalid about Trump, and I hate it,
was his transactionalism. If, like, if I were to meet you, if I, you know, if the world gets good
again, and I can fly to Florida and... Yeah, amazing. We could sit here and drink wine together.
Yeah. Well, what I'd do is, to be honest, I'd get a bottle of battalion red and I sit on the
part bench opposite the Church of Scientology. And I'd go, for a bit. Then I'd grow up. Then we'd
go, we'd hire... We should do this anyway. We'd hire a soft top convertible, drive around the nice
bits of Florida, find a lovely bar by the beach. I'd go for a great big long swim because I like
doing that. And then, and then we'd come back and eat ribs and drink good wine and talk about the
world. And at any point, if I paid for all of that because I've got lots of money, I don't,
I'm just fantasizing, I wouldn't think for a second that I owned you because I paid it, paid for it.
Trump would. So what happened with Trump was that when we arrived, we were going to interview him on
the Tuesday, but on the Saturday of the Sunday, we went to, is it Bedminster, his golf resort in
New Jersey? I'm not sure. His name of it. He's got a golf resort in New Jersey. I think it's called
Bedminster or something like this. And it's the Mar-a-Lago of New Jersey. And he was great in terms
of TV. He was great. He said, Hi, John, great to meet you. They're looking after you. It's wonderful,
really good. He gave me a Trump hat, not make America grumpy again, but from gold red hat.
Fantastic. Very useful because I have a bald head. I used to drive it around. I used to wear it when
I drove my soft top BW Beetle around. I don't do that anymore. Let somebody kill me. But anyway,
I ended up, we're in a golf buggy together. And he said, Okay, John, and he gives me a lift and he
goes off a June, like really quite a high speed. And you can hear me. I'm on the end of the
capacity of my sound mic feeding back to the camera. But as we disappear in the lighted frame,
so we're dying, the light is dying. But as the light dies, and we head off into the sunset,
you can clearly hear me say, I'm a bit worried about the driver because it's fucking lunatic,
he's going to kill me. And that was Trump. And then it was just you and him in the golf cart?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's on panorama. It's a BBC panorama, you know, Trump, the Kremlin candidate
question mark. And that's me. And then he he organized for us to go up into his Trump helicopter
and fly around the golf course, all of which is wonderful pictures. He's not there. He's doing
something else. But but what this means is that when I come down to sit and interview him, he
thinks he owns me. Now, you know, I've been in a golf buggy before, I don't like golf. I think it
ruins a good walk. But I have been in a golf buggy. And I've been in lots of helicopters,
oftentimes with the American Marines and the American Army in northern Iraq, and all sorts of
fucking weird and crazy places. But the idea that you can buy my soul for a ride in a golf buggy
and a ride in a helicopter, that's just foolish. And the story I was there to ask him about was that
he he built this golf course in Scotland, but he'd fallen out with his Scottish neighbors,
because he treated them appallingly. And there's a problem with the way Trump treats ordinary
people who get in his way. That was the purpose of the film. But actually, what we were doing was
riding on the back of a previous film by made by a very good filmmaker whose name I think is Anthony
Baxter. And basically, it was we were borrowing this other guy's story with some of his footage,
we interviewed him. And I found that was a bit boring, happy to know the story, but he didn't
get my storytelling juices going because somebody else's it's somebody else's story. However,
I looked into Trump and I found that he had one of the people close to him was this guy called
Felix Sater, a Russian born gangster, who back in the day in Wall Street in the 90s and fallen out
with a fellow broker, and it smashed a margarita glass, and then put the stem of the of the of the
glass into this guy's net, giving him 110 stitches. And the guy goes inside. When he's inside, then
he teams up with a Gambino's for a pump and dump scam worth $40 million, pumping up a share price,
which is shit. And then they they pull out other suckers come in, then they pull out. Then then
he does something I am Soviet Union falls. And he ends up doing this is Felix Sater. He ends up
working, I think, for the agency, buying stinger missiles from the in Afghanistan,
using cutouts or whatever. He does something, which means that they, they let him out earlier,
and then he ends up in the Trump Organization. But this guy is a gangster, thick with organized crime,
that the CIA might have used him to do some skullsuggery on their behalf. That's good on him.
It doesn't make him an honest or reliable business partner at all. And I hit Trump with that. Why
didn't you say to Felix Sater, who has got a Trump card, a Trump Organization card, Felix Sater,
and the Trump Organization email address of memory serves. Why didn't you say to Felix Sater,
you're connected with a mafia, you're fired. This is on YouTube. And Trump says, John, maybe you're
thick. But in the United States, we have a contract. And you can't break the contract. Now,
actually, down the track, I did a film for BBC Newsnight. This is on YouTube. And it's called
Trump and the mob or Trump and his links with the mob, in which I find a clause in the contract he'd
signed with Felix Sater, or the business entity he was engaged with. And Sater was part of it,
which is called the bad boy clause that if Sater had been a bad boy, then he'd have to cough that up.
And it was his responsibility to cough. So there was perfectly good legal contractual reasons for
Trump to do that. Trump called me thick. What does that mean? Thick? Thick means stupid. Okay.
Maybe you're thick, John, said Trump to me. All of my colleagues on panorama love this moment.
And so whenever we go for a beer, they always, you know, there's always some fucking point
where somebody says, Well, maybe you're thick, John. And I don't, I don't, I don't say anything.
But you can tell from my face that I don't like it. Because, you know, I wear glasses,
I've written 12 books. I'm clever. I mean, I don't have to like, you know, I went to the London School
of Economics. I'm not that clever. But I'm not thick. Anyway, never mind. But the point is that
Trump has worked out perfectly how to hit me. But I, this isn't my first rodeo. And I roll with it.
And then I say, but I press him on it. And then Trump says, Listen, I've got to go to a meeting.
He's made it up. There isn't a meeting. He's just getting out because he doesn't like me.
And he comes over to, to hold, to shake my hand. And I put my hand up like this. And I say,
one last question. Why did you buy your concrete from Fat Tony Salerno? Fat Tony was the Gambino
and the Genovese crime families man in Manhattan. And if you bought concrete back in the day,
you bought it from Fat Tony, or else you would have trouble with a mob. And Trump's building is
entirely concrete. He bought his concrete from Fat Tony. He, the evidence suggests shares a lawyer,
Roy Cohn, with Fat Tony. Fat Tony was in the mob. There's a wonderful, a great reporter for Village
Forest called Wayne Barrett, who I met in 2016 in the spring. And Wayne had, had always been on
Trump's case back in the 80s. Fantastic guy. And I asked Wayne, this is in the video,
Trump and his links with the mob. It's on YouTube. And I asked Wayne about Fat Tony. And Wayne said,
Fat Tony, Fat Tony was fat. It's a great piece of telling. Honestly, it's lovely.
Wayne told me this story, which is yucky, but I'm going to tell it to you because we're not.
Wayne found out that Trump was, you know, one of his casinos got blown up the other day.
There's video of a Trump casino on YouTube, on Twitter, being blown up.
How did I miss this? Okay, anyway. Which casino?
One of the Trump casinos in Atlantic City. Okay. Maybe, by the way, I've watched it.
I didn't watch it closely. The date could be wrong, but never mind. They've had to, somebody in,
it looked like recently, but it could have been a couple of years back have blown up a Trump casino
because it was abandoned and lost money. When one of his casinos was opened, Wayne had been
running stories about Trump getting in bed with a New Jersey mafia who owned the land.
So the Trump effectively had to get, to pay off the New Jersey mafia to start this casino.
And then in those days, the New Jersey mafia, based in Philly,
was more murderous than the New York mafia in the eighties, common ground. So
Wayne is reporting that Trump's getting in bed with some very nasty people indeed,
big, dirty killers, organized crime. Trump hates this, hates it. And Wayne Barrett is on his
hate list. Wayne is not invited to the launch of the casino. Wayne hires a young researcher
called Tim O'Brien, who has ended up working for Bloomberg and working for Joe, for Joe Biden,
and also being a great reporter for, I think, the wash post for a bit or whatever. Anyway,
Tim O'Brien is Wayne's assistant. At this point, he's like 22, 23, just out of college.
He's on the inside. And between them, they work it out. And basically, Tim O'Brien goes to a door
and lets Wayne in the back way so he can get into this party. There's Trump, all his women.
And the moment, you know, Trump sees Wayne, Wayne is arrested by Trump security,
who are Atlantic City police officers working moonlighting for the Trump Organization.
They lock him up. And because of the trespass, basically, they can lock him up for the night
and they have to let him go in the morning. That night, Wayne tells me in 2016, when he's dying
of cancer, he spends the entire night handcuffed, chained to a radiator, and there is another
prisoner in the cell, which is a police holding cell, not a, okay. And the other guy is mentally
ill and spends the entire night masturbating. Trump would have known that because it's,
he owns the Atlantic City Police Department, that's Wayne Barrett's allegation,
all concerned in ironing wrongdoing. So what Trump is doing is he's deliberately getting
to Wayne by organizing this, or rather, the cops would have known this, not a, I'm going to
tell Trump about it, to make Trump enjoy that moment of sadism. And when I read Mary Trump,
his aunt's book about Donald Trump, or his, is Mary Trump, Mary Trump is Trump's niece,
that's right. But he's a psychologist, but she's fallen out with him because Trump was horribly
cruel to her father, Fred Trump Jr. This married completely with the story that Wayne told me,
that there is something brutal and nasty and disgusting about Donald Trump. So I felt,
as well as the fact that my unborn granddaughter won 1300 pounds
from Trump's loss. I felt an enormous sense of relief when the great John King
finally, you know, there's that moment in the Pennsylvania recount where suddenly the numbers
switched. And I thought, thank God for that. Whatever time it was in the morning in London,
I opened like the most, like a fantastically expensive bottle of Italian red.
Very nice. So, but also this is democracy. Now, I don't, and I think Trump has lost it.
There's a moment, when I'm talking about Putin, the Putin, the problem is that Putin has shot
metaphorically, certainly literally, he would deny it, has shot the free media in Russia.
And therefore, there aren't people around him who are telling him the truth, who have got the
courage and the status to say, listen, boss, you're wrong, or for him to read that stuff and believe
it. So an honest media is vital to the proper working of power in the 21st century. And the
problem is that social media disorganized and much of an anonymous creates an enormous fog machine,
so you can't see what the truth is. And it's turned everyone into a journalist kind of.
There's no barrier to entry like traditional media, like for instance, for you to go work
for the BBC, that's not easy. However, it's much easier to go grab a video camera and go out and
start recording yourself, investigating whatever you want, posting it on YouTube and Twitter.
Yes. Now, some of that is good, but much of it is bad. Secondly, there's another thing, which is that
we've all become not just our own reporters, but actually worse, our own news editors.
And there are occasionally things, and I weed my Twitter well, and I've got 60,000,
59,000 followers at the moment. But basically, if there are people out there who put up videos,
which are horrible, and I either block or mute them, because I don't want to see that.
Now, I've seen people with their eyes blown out by the force of artillery. I've seen
dead children in the mountains of northern Iraq. I've seen
a baby with its arm shot off in a massacre in Africa. I've seen horrible things. I don't want to see
that on my computer in the normal. I don't want to see that. And I've seen terrible things as a
war reporter. So I know what I'm doing there in terms of editing that out. So there is a problem.
And I don't think, I mean, the people who own, certainly Facebook, Google, Twitter,
Twitter, profited from Tommy Robertson supporters threatening to kill me. And those
threats went from online to offline, i.e., real people came up to me when I was in trouble
with the BBC not putting out our film, which would defend, or at least say, here's the context, folks.
And this is when the online hate goes offline, i.e., real world. It's terrifying.
So what happened to me was, I knew there was a wonderful Irish reporter called Lyra McKee who was,
I think, 27, 28, 29. Not yet 30, certainly. And she was shot dead by the real IRA
at a confrontation with the police in Derry in Northern Ireland. And whoever shot her meant,
was pointing at the police lines. She just happened to be standing next to the police.
So it was an accident, manslaughter. But on the other hand, it was criminal manslaughter
in that if you fire a gun at that sort of range at a line of police officers and other people,
you could well kill somebody. That's what happened. Lyra was murdered, killed, manslaughter not murder.
I'm on-gardeningly, the BBC won't put out this film with Don and Tommy Robertson. I'm still
getting threats from these anonymous people. I go, at my own expense, I fly out to Belfast
because I'd met Lyra McKee, actually, at the Bruja Journalism Festival in Italy,
which is a wonderful event. And I really liked it. I took the piss out of, she was with a British
lefty guy called Owen Jones, who I don't agree with on much stuff, but he's good fun and we were
ribbing each other. She said something very funny. I said, come and join us. There was a gang, I had
a little gang, and they joined us and it was great fun. And she said, I go to her funeral.
Most of my friends who are new from the media are filming this event and I still, I'm in a mess
psychologically. So I'm standing at the very back and I tweet a little bit about the crowd
clapping her funeral cortege as it leaves, which places me at Belfast Catholic Cathedral
in Belfast at this moment. I tweet the coffin going in and the coffin leaving.
And one of Tommy Robinson's supporters comes and finds me as I'm leaving the funeral at the end
and attacks me verbally, not physically, in a way which I find absolutely shocking and terrifying.
So the problem I've got with big tech is that they're making money from advertising out of stuff
that's caused me enormous psychological distress for no, and that is wrong. And I have no way
of stopping that or sanctioning them because they're not publishers, they're not responsible
for the content. Blah, blah, blah. And I don't like that. So I want to see the internet police
properly. I am listening to and wary of the warning from the valley. I'm also, but at the same time,
I don't think that Trump should be allowed to go on Twitter after he started living,
putting out stuff that reaches in a dark fantasy world. So we got to police it.
Are you aware of the the section that I believe was introduced by it was a long time ago. I want
to say it was 10 years ago. It was some sort of a copyright protection that blanketed companies
like Facebook and YouTube and Twitter from from this kind of stuff from from people,
independent people publishing their content, it would it would sort of guard these platforms
from legal liability for for either copyright or for, you know, stuff like you're talking about now.
Are you familiar with this with this specific and there is a I've forgotten the lingo. It's
like preposition a proposition 237 or yeah, I can't remember either. Yeah, but essentially, I don't
think it's it needs to be policed. How we do it. I don't know how we how we organize for people
but Navalny is Navalny. My point, I think I'm my hard line is about I'm against anonymity
because this can create these pylons, which are terrifying if you're at the wrong end of them,
in particular, if you're in a bad way. Now listen, you know, I one of my psychiatrists
that acquired my I got I spent some time in 2019 in Italy, and my then flatmate
loved quoting this from my psychiatrist, which was Mr. Sweeney has a robust and resilient character,
but nevertheless, under immense stress, anyone can crack. And that's true. And I cracked a little bit.
So I feel that that was enhanced by this so that I feel that they're my my single point is that
we've got to end anonymity, which means that people own what they say. Right. And therefore,
the moment you do that, you don't want your mom, your loved ones, your partners, your kids
to find out you're a bit of a fucking Nazi, or you're being pointlessly cruel to somebody.
Right. And I, and I, and I,
so that's, so that's where I, I net out on this. Yeah, the the that section that that law
scares me if it goes away, because what will happen to all the people that that are independent
journalists, now that YouTube has people that make a living off YouTube and publishing all
their content there, now that YouTube is has to protect its own ass from a barrage of millions
of lawsuits from what any one of their creators could create and publish on their platform.
I have a feeling that would effectively, I mean, I don't see how it couldn't put a company like
YouTube out of business. Well, I feel so. I don't want those voices to be silenced.
I want those voices not to be anonymous. Right.
Which, and if you end the namelessness, because I'm struggling after too much red wine to say
anonymous, probably I did it. If you end anonymity, you prevent that. But also,
I think that the big tech, big tech have made a lot of money, and that they could spend more money
on policing what they're doing to prevent this doing this. Now, my son's a social worker, and he's
concerned that the amount of, for example, child porn material out there is way bigger than the
efforts that Google, Facebook, etc., are making in terms of stopping that.
Yeah, it seems like with all the money they generate, they could, there could be, I mean,
obviously, it can't come from them because they're obviously not going to, are they going to regulate
themselves? There has to be a third party that regulates them, right? If I was them, I would
start, if I was them, I would start spending big money on doing it myself, get some cutouts,
get a fancy board of good people who know stuff and get free speech, but also get common sense.
And at the same time, I'd do that because otherwise, people like me will...
Create anonymous accounts? Yeah, we'll end up legislating. I want to see laws
ending anonymous accounts. You're held accountable. Yes, I want accountability. I don't want silence,
and I get that. Listen, I spent eight days in North Korea, and I wrote a book about it,
North Korea Undercover, and you heard what I was saying about Putin and Trump,
it's because of a lack of sound criticism in Putin's world and in Trump's world that they failed.
They lost their suppleness, and they paid for that. So I believe in free speech,
but I don't believe in anonymous hate speech. I don't want to see silence saying,
but I think you can do this. I think that's a fixable thing. Yeah, I totally agree.
We're retained it. Listen, my career is... Since I left the BBC, I went to a radio station,
LBC Global, but basically it used to be called the Law and Broadcasting Corporation,
which is a fun, lively station in London, and they're the people who put out my podcast.
And it's because of the exciting stuff that this podcast on Jillian Maxwell has...
It's had 2.3 million downloads, so I am a beneficiary of the new world information order.
I'm not against it, but I want some rules, and I don't like animal limiting.
Now, what drew your interest to Robert Maxwell and his daughter initially?
So I met Robert Maxwell when I was a boy.
Really?
Yeah, not when I was a boy. How old are you?
I'm 33.
I would have been 28, son of this. I was a freelance reporter in London,
and I was doing a piece about the Royal Rat Pack, the ghastly tabloid newspapers.
They used to harry menace members of the Royal Family, and I came away from doing this story,
feeling a bit sorry for the Royal Family and not liking these people.
In the middle of doing this, there was a charity event, I think,
if memory serves at Great Ormond Street Hospital or Kids Hospital in London.
There's Robert Maxwell, and there's Princess Diana.
And Robert Maxwell was laying on the schmaltz, and there was something sickening and wrong about him.
Then what happened was, I was fascinated by him, and I can remember in the summer, 1991,
he died on November 5th, 1991. I proposed to the editor of the Observer, my then newspaper,
can I investigate Robert Maxwell? No way. The editor, Donald Shelford, looked at me as if I'd
offered him a fucking cow pat. A cow pat is, you know what a cow pat is.
What's weird with American English is that every now and then everything goes wrong,
and you don't understand it.
There's a few words I don't understand, like thick and...
Thick means stupid.
Watching you and Sean talk for two hours, there was a couple of moments where I was like,
what the fuck are they talking about? Because there's some word.
But Sean's from... So basically, I was brought up in South Manchester for five years,
and he witnesses north of Manchester and way rougher than where I was in Cheshire,
so that we can roughly understand each other, because there's a regional, like Britain's so
small, but actually the amount of accents that are going on. So that you would know that I'm
considerably posh of, and Sean is. I'm not posh. I'm no lord or anything like it. But Sean is,
you know, anyway, never mind.
You were hilarious. Watching you roast Sean was one of the funniest things I've seen in a while.
He's from... He looked... He did look like a bouncer in the strip club in 1970s,
with the kind of like, slightly naff cheap suit and the waistcoat, like to defendants,
on a kind of serious charge. On the other hand, Sean is funny and likable, and he's been to prison
for something he did do, but he survived it, and he's got a sense of humor and his love of life.
And so there's something essentially very likable about him, though he's also a bit dodgy.
You know, as I left, I checked my wallet.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. No, he was the guy... He wasn't the bouncer in the nightclub. He was the guy that
sat outside the bathroom and then sold you little baggies.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Would you like some perfume? Fuck off.
What did he go... He went to prison for ecstasy or something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. He ran a ecstasy... Essentially like an ecstasy ring, like an empire in Arizona.
Like, anyway, never mind. So...
All right. What were we talking about? We're talking about Maxwell.
Oh, no, I do not. Yeah. So there was something about Maxwell that I knew was wrong, and I couldn't
do the story for my paper because he threatened to sue everybody all the time.
So he used the libel laws in a disgraceful way.
Then what happened was that he
ended up falling off his yacht, just moving a cable around because it wasn't going to run out of gas.
And he fell off his yacht, called the Lady Shalem, and it was November the 5th, 1991.
And at that time, I was a war reporter for the Observer, and I was commuting between
Northern Iraq and Yugoslavia as it was cracking up. And I just come back from the siege of Dubrovnik
where... And I've been reporting this story from March. So for six, seven months, I've been seeing a
lovely country called Yugoslavia tear itself apart. People die. And in Dubrovnik, we went to the
hospital and there was a little boy, I'll never forget this, who was... He had salt and pepper hair
just like my boy Sam at that age. And he'd been hit with a shell fragment, which had gone near
his groin, but thank God it hit his upper leg, not his groin. But it was... This triggered my son,
my memory of thinking about my son, and I started to weep uncontrollably.
Now, and the doctor who was with me said, you know, you should stop doing this work.
And I wanted to say, now listen, I've seen people with their heads blown off and it hasn't made me cry,
but this has got to me because this kid looks like my son, as I was crying. So I had to get out,
and I actually got out by hiding in a lady's toilet on a ferry. Men weren't allowed to leave Dubrovnik
unless they'd be fighters. And even though I had a kind of UN press card, it doesn't matter.
The ship's captain wouldn't let me go. And I stole back onto the ship,
hid in a lady's toilet, got to Serbia, the other side, and ran away. And before the
Serb cops could work out who I was, I got into a taxi and fucked off, and I got home. And I got home.
It's bonfire night. I think my son opens the door and he said, and he shoots me with his fingers,
bang, bang, you're dead. I wouldn't let them have toy guns, because of my experience.
And what he used to do is make toy guns out of toast, but nevertheless.
Toast?
Yeah. That's a British thing. That's where you put a bread and a toaster.
Yeah, okay. I just can't imagine a gun made out of toast.
No, it's what you do. If your dad bans you from having any kind of toy gun,
you cut the shape of the revolver out of toast.
That's creative.
Yeah. It's a kind of NRA at five years old. I still, I mean, you could have, you know,
dinosaurs and everything would, you know, gobble you up. That's okay, but not guns.
Right, right.
And I stick by that. Anyway, I'm
so we go to the supermarket. My them misses.
And we hear on the news, BBC radio, Robert Maxwell has fallen off his yacht.
And the Supermarket has got a roof car park. I'm on the roof car park.
And my missus says, well, come on, let's go shopping. And I said, well, I've got to listen
to this. And the thing is, I'd only just recovered from crying my eyes out and seeing a kid looking
like my son. And the thing is, I couldn't go anywhere because I was in bits and I couldn't
do this story. And it kind of hurt me. So 30 years on, I leave the BBC. I want to do a podcast.
I go to LBC and I say, I'd like to do hunting Gillette because she's gone. She's gone missing.
And they say yes, but it takes them six months to say yes, partly because of the election,
then the virus hits, it's all a mess. But finally, they say yes. And they say yes on July the first
or rather I signed the contract on July the first last year, 2020. And she's arrested. And the title
of the podcast is Hunting Gillette. I'm going to find Gillette, right? That's what I'm going to do.
And on July the second, the FBI find her in New Hampshire. And I phone up the boss of podcast,
Chris Bourne at LBC and I say, I've signed the contract. I just said, John, it's okay.
It's still fascinating how she did this, how she hid how it worked. And the moment I
then go and see, I think the first thing I do is I see the former editor of Private Eye, which is
our wonderful satirical magazine in Britain, Richard Ingrams, who's an old friend of mine. I
have done little bits and pieces for Private Eye since the 80s and I've been to Private Eye lunches.
And Robert Maxwell used to sue Private Eye all the time. So often Richard Ingrams who wrote
the stories who was the editor can't remember how often he was sued. But he
he hated Maxwell when he was alive. But he feels sorry for Gillette Maxwell
because her father was such a monster. So the traditional, so the story of Gillette Maxwell
is a dark fairy story, the darkest, one of the darkest you'll ever hear. And the thing about
the story is that the traditional version of it is seen in the Netflix, Filthy Rich, is there's
only one monster, and the monster is Jeffrey Epstein. My version in Hunting Chelane, the podcast
later this year, I'm going to write a book about her called Probably Hunting Chelane
after the trial is over, suggests there's at least, well, there's more than one monster.
The second monster is her father, who was a grossly abusive man who according to his own
wife, Betty Maxwell, who loved him for 40 years more said he took sadistic pleasure in humiliating
the people closest to him, his family. He bullied psychologically his family horribly. He also
may and the evidence for this is not clear. It's not clear. But there is a woman with mental
health issues who had an infatuation with Robert Maxwell, and Maxwell liked her as well. I don't
know the nature of their relationship. But this woman's called Eleanor Berry, and she says at the
age of nine in a book, she says that Gillette Maxwell showed her various implements of beating,
like a piece of leather, a ruler, a cane that went swish as you moved in the air.
And Gillette age nine said to Eleanor Berry, Daddy's nice because he lets me choose what he's going
to beat me with. I don't know whether that happened. But it's a fact that Robert Maxwell was
an emotional bully, a psychological bully, who took, as his wife said, sadistic pleasure
in humiliating his family. So my version of this dark story, a dark fairy story,
says there isn't one monster. He goes beyond the Netflix version. There are two monsters.
There is Jeffrey Epstein, and there is Robert Maxwell. The question that I wrestle with
is, is Gillette Maxwell the third monster? Have you tried reaching out to her directly to talk
to her through the prison bureau? She has a PR man, and I've approached him while I was
making the podcast. It's available, by the way, on Spotify and Apple and all the usual places.
It's called Hunting Gillette. I pronounce Gillette Gillette. Americans pronounce Gillette Gillette.
I thought it was Gislaine. Gislaine is wrong. That was a joke. Yeah. And the bad one.
Sorry, the tequila's getting to me. Yes. Drink advisably. So
the thing is that I think she was certainly a victim because her father was a cruel bully,
psychologically. I don't know whether this story about the beating is true, but
it kind of fits other stories, so it's grim. However, I think that you can be a victim and also
a perpetrator. And so the question is, if you have been abused yourself or have been mucked around
psychologically, does that lessen your defences? Does it make it more likely that you could have
used others? And I spoke to, in the podcast and episode six, I spoke to a therapist who deals,
who lives in LA, who deals with victims of the church of Scientology all the time,
and she said it's commonplace for victims to then turn into become perpetrators. And the
problem is, if you're raised inside a dark environment, then that becomes normal.
Do you think because of her child or her alleged childhood trauma, do you think that it's possible
that she possibly had no moral compass? Yes. I think that is, that's where I sit on this.
I feel that she didn't know what was right and wrong, where the boundaries were. This is common
that Betty, her mum, who loved Robert Maxwell, said that for too long, all of us help perpetuate
his, quote, cult of personality. Now, Robert Maxwell didn't run a cult like Scientology. We have
suckers on the knees, paying for some kind of spiritual enlightenment, because he had
his businesses, which were working much of the time. And that was the source of the money. But
kind of a bit like Putin, a bit like others, he didn't have enough people around him saying,
don't do this, boss, this is bad. And if you've got a very, very powerful personality,
and this guy was off the wall, then what you create is a kind of cult. The problem
for Gillem was that she was brought up inside a cult, a kind of a cult. So when she meets,
so her father dies, my view is he fell off the yacht deliberately, he committed suicide.
He wasn't pushed. That's my view of the disputed. But when she lost one monster,
she went to Manhattan and found the second Jeffrey Epstein, who was the same kind of guy,
brilliant, poor, made a ton of money, incredibly manipulative and abusive.
And his thing was abusing these poor kids, more child and women again and again and again. And
the allegation against Gillem is that she made that happen. She was a handmaiden to that abuse.
She denies it. She denies all six charges against her. And to be fair and proper,
we've got to wait until the trial this summer when we'll hear for the first time her defense.
Do you think it will actually go to trial or do you think she could take a plea?
I don't know. I don't think that there is anything very much for her to plea on
because traditionally what you do is you plead to give up somebody else.
But when Epstein killed himself, and I believe he killed himself,
you do believe he killed himself? Yeah, I can set that out at great length.
But I won't because with two hours, pretty much already, I'll set it out briefly.
There's a friend of mine called Chris Atkins who's written a very funny book called A Bit of a
Stretch. And he was a former panorama producer freelance who ended up in a tax scam and got
done by the British tax man and went to prison sentenced for five years and spent nine months
in Wandsworth, which is a terrible neck in London.
Routinely, sex offenders and worst of all pedophiles were abused in prison.
And according to his own personal observation, prison officers didn't bother check up on
pedophiles because they wanted them to donate.
So my friend Chris, it's a British prison, not an American prison, but this is not conspiracy
theory. This is our observed experience of prison culture. A convicted pedophile like
Jeffrey Epstein back in again, back in again for greater and better charges of pedophilia
is going to have a horrible time in prison from everybody, including the prison guards.
So I think he very likely that they didn't bother check on them, that they didn't care.
I think that Epstein was a clever and manipulative man, but also he realized he'd run out of road
and there was no good defense for what he'd done. And therefore he was looking at life.
And this was a way of saying, fuck you, when he was that kind of guy who'd do that.
Thirdly, I would say that there was a pathologist hired by Jeffrey Epstein's brother,
who I think is called Dr. Baden, who went on Fox to say that his, there's a bone there called
hyoid by was broken. And that is evidence of murder, not suicide.
So being a good reporter, I checked this with an American pathologist.
And it's in the podcast who set out the evidence by, by going through
something like 168 definite suicides by hanging and found that two thirds of the cases,
the hyoid bone was broken. Really? Yes, really. And the older the,
the deceased, the more likely the hyoid bone would be broken.
So when I say that Jeffrey Epstein killed himself, I'm not arguing with Donald Trump
for a gag. I'm setting out the, the known evidence, which is number one.
There is a culture inside prisons in Britain and the United States and around the world that
hates pedophiles. The prison guards should have been checking on him. They didn't because they
didn't fucking care. Number two, Chris says that the prison estate in British prisons
and American prisons is always rubbish. The CCTV cameras didn't work. That's normal.
Nothing works in prison because when you complain, nobody gives a fuck because you're a prisoner.
Number three, the physiological evidence that points to murder is rubbish.
The physiological evidence, sorry, the pathological evidence points to suicide, not murder.
And the advance of the suicide version is not supported by science.
If you doubt me, listen to my podcast on Team G-Lane. Final question.
If you were to be able to sit down with G-Lane, G-Lane right now, what would you ask her?
My question would be, did Robert Maxwell fuck you up?
Why that question? Did her father cause her to be where she is now?
Because he was an abusive personality. You don't have to go where this woman,
Barry, goes. One of her brothers in Maxwell said that when he heard that his father had died,
he felt both fear of what to do next, but also a sense of exhilaration that this alpha male had
gone from his life. So you can just use that to say, did he? So it's possible. I don't know where it
goes, this court case. I'm fascinated to watch it. If I can, I'll try and get to New York.
Sorry, I'm going on for a reason because this troubles me. I don't know what's going to happen.
At the moment, there is, it seems, three witnesses to abuse and the charges relate primarily to 1994
to 1997. So the stuff we all know about, all the stuff, for example, that's in the Netflix
documentary, Virginia Roberts-Dufres, she meets them in 2000. She meets Prince Andrew in 2001.
Conveniently not a part of her charges. Not in the charges. Now, conveniently is a loaded adverb,
and one should always avoid loaded adverbs. Okay, noted. They may have done that. The
feds may have done it is because they don't want to put Virginia Roberts-Dufres in the witness box
unless she gets something wrong, which is not to say that she's right fundamentally.
But abuse victims often make poor witnesses. That's an argument that's been put to me. I don't know.
My judgment about what she says about Prince Andrew and her, I think
that, well, Prince Andrew can't explain the photograph. Virginia Roberts can.
I think Virginia Roberts is telling the truth, but for whatever reason, the feds aren't going there.
There's a qualification for this, which is they're going there on the,
they've also charged Gillianne with perjury, and it's possible they can take
some of the perjury stuff and chuck it, but that's, they're not, they're being careful
about the timeline because I think they want a conviction. Had Epstein still been alive,
Gillianne's route to a soft sentence would have been giving the dirt on Jeffrey Epstein.
Once he died, I think he killed himself, then that's possibility for a plea,
the value of the pleas of the feds has gone. So what she's offering, what she could do is say,
I was a victim of Jeffrey Epstein. I was also a victim of my father, and I'm terribly sorry,
but I was not in the sound mind when I did this. Her problem with that is that
she should have said that the moment Jeffrey Epstein died. If I was her, I would have done it
the second he died, and I would have given a press conference saying, it's the first time
I can talk about this, but I feel desperately sorry for the victims, Virginia Roberts included,
but I got this entirely wrong because I was manipulated by this man and it's only now
that he's dead that I can talk about this. Instead, she disappeared. That's a big problem for her.
As I said, she denies any wrongdoing, she denies all the charges against her,
and fair fair, I believe passionately in the rule of law, and I believe innocent or proven guilty,
so we're going to have to wait and see what she says and what the defense is. I feel sorry for her,
I do, but it doesn't mean I don't think, I think the evidence against her is damning.
I'm fascinated as I said to see what's going to happen, but I do feel sorry for her.
She's in a horrible place, in an awful prison, and this horrible stuff from her past is coming
back to her. At the same time, I also feel desperately sorry for the victims. Virginia
Roberts, you phrase the most famous, I believe what she says, I do, and I think people are
responsible for their actions. Anyway, we have to, we'll see how it plays.
John, I can't thank you enough for doing this, man. I really appreciate it. I'm a huge fan of your
work. Your work is amazing, and thank you again. Where can people all obviously link all of your
stuff below, your Twitter, a link to your podcast, anything else? So there's my, there's the Amazon
book page, which is basically the Church of Fear on Scientology North Korea Undercover,
Elephant Moon, the book about the elephant men rescuing people in Boymite, I don't know why I've
mentioned that, and the youth of Lydia with John Gray, the wonderful British philosopher that was
his book of the year in the New Statesman, his best yet, he said, I paid him a kebab to do that.
That's a joke, by the way. The, what else, the YouTube film, if you put in John Sweeney,
Donald Trump, Trump and the mob, that's up there. Scientology and me, the shout me screaming,
40 second clip. I'll do it again. So people remember you are not there for the beginning
of the interview. I love it, man. Hey, if you ever find your way back here in the States,
I would love to get you down here to Florida so we could do another one in person. That would be
amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I do that. And then we'd go on a pub crawl or whatever.
Yeah. Let's go on a pub crawl through downtown Clearwater and we can go grab a drink right
across in the Jack Tar Hotel. Yeah. Well, my, my, my hope would be I'd really like to get arrested
by the Clearwater Police Department. And I mean, what would the problem is, you'd have to look
after me because what I'd do is I'd get too pissed and I'd start trying to urinate. By the way,
this has reminded me of my, somebody I admire very much is a guy called Sean Longstile,
who Scientology hates it. And he used to film them and they filmed him. And I interviewed him.
And while I was interviewing him, they turned up to try and monster him. And there's, it's all in
this film Scientology and me. And they accuse him of being a sexual deviant. And he was openly gay
and had been caught by the cops having sex with a gay man. And, you know, it didn't,
they turned him into a sort of a deviant. He wasn't, he was a brave and courageous American.
Scientology, when he died, he, I'm afraid, I think he killed himself. And Scientology said that he
was a horrible person. And I did a piece of BBC radio to say, well, for me, he was a bit of a hero.
So, if I can get to Florida, let's go on the razzle dazzle.
Let's do it.
And let us raise the glass in memory.
Absolutely.
Yes, sir.
Thank you so much, John. Let's keep in touch.
