So, I walked over to this woman and she says to me, you know, she identifies herself as
Nina Morrison, who's, you know, my attorney at the Innocence Project.
And when she said the items were tested, you know, that was something that kind of set
off those alarms.
And I said to her, what do you mean the items have been tested?
They're not supposed to have been tested for another month.
And she said, well, the district attorney pulled some strings and got the lab to expedite
the testing a little bit faster.
And you know, the results match the actual perpetrator, you're going home tomorrow.
And I said, no, I'm not.
And when she said, you're going home tomorrow, and I said, I know I'm not.
And the third time she said, you know, you really are, you're going home tomorrow.
And I again said, no, I'm not.
So I had this like three and a half hours of like a mental paralysis.
So my mind starts racing.
All these thoughts are coming into my head.
One thought after another, and one thought has nothing to do with the other, and none
of it has anything to do with what she just told me.
So she's sitting there like literally holding my hand and articulating all these things
that are going through my mind, you know, and she's not responding.
She's just listening to all this madness.
Periodically, she breaks in and says, are you ready to talk about tomorrow?
And I'm like, no, no, no, get that away from me.
No, when I talk, I'm not, we're not talking about tomorrow, not going home, not entertaining
that.
Don't play with me like that.
No.
And so I go back to the rants again and this and that, and every now and then the same
sequence happens.
And finally, towards the end, she says, look, there's only like a half hour left in the
visit.
We've been here all day and there's a ton of things to do with the media.
I also have to get your sizes for your clothing sizes and everything, you know, so you can
get a suit for your appearance in court.
And that's what made it real.
And then I felt better for about five minutes.
And then a different thought came in my head.
The fear that popped into my head was that something was going to happen between that
day and the next.
Then the district attorney was going to change her mind and then they were going to do what
they always did, which was fight me and win.
So that was how I learned that I was going to be released the next day.
Wow.
And when you finally got released, what was that like going back into the real world after
16 years?
I mean, I'm sure like technology had advanced, you know, phones had evolved, you know.
Sure.
So I get up to- Was the iPhone out yet?
No.
It was not.
No.
Okay.
So I get up to leave.
I'm going to explain all of that to you.
Great question.
So I get up to leave.
The court's finished.
I get up to leave.
And then kind of like the enormity of the moment hit me kind of like a ton of bricks,
you know, and I sat back down and, you know, my attorneys are talking to me, but I'm kind
of hearing them and they're not hearing them.
And eventually the bailiffs just kind of like clear the whole court out.
And so after about 20 minutes, I just kind of felt ready.
So I got up and I put, as I put one step in front of the other walking towards the end
of the court and no one's stopping me with each step, it kind of like gets more real.
And then there was this bailiff who's standing up and she's trying to be professional.
But you know, I can see the waters running and I looked up and made eye contact with
her and, you know, and she says good luck and I said, thank you.
So I go outside.
I remember the sky was blue.
The sun was out.
I didn't see a cloud anywhere, you know, many members of the Innocence Project and also Cardozo
Law School, which they've been affiliated with, you know, they're all like, they're all
like clapping because, you know, you survived, you overcame the system, you know, and I go
to the press conference and when it's finally my turn to speak after, you know, Nina and
Barry Sheck spoke, my first words were, you know, is this really happening?
Like I couldn't believe that I was still actually there.
I thought I was just still in the prison and, you know, it was all just a dream and I'm
going to wake back up and see the cell bars and the prison walls and everything.
And I spoke there for three and a half, maybe like two, two and a half hours, just doing
an off the cuff presentation.
Like everything I'd ever wanted to say in 16 years, but could never get anyone to hear
me about came out and just when I thought I was wrapping up a different, a different
thought came, came, came out.
So that was that day, you know, and then from there, the other thing I'll mention about
that day and then I'll like go to the overall is we went to, I went to my aunt's house because
my mother had moved away.
So I went to my aunt's house and we're sitting around this table.
I remember sitting around the table and this other family member that hadn't been able
to get to the court came, came over and they're all sitting around and you know, they're having
coffee and cookies and they're talking about what happened.
And I just remember feeling out of place.
I remember not being able to relate to them.
And so I just went outside to just sit down is, you know, in Elmira, they would always
close the yard when it would get, when it was dark and I wanted to be able to just sit
outside and stay outside.
So I did that.
So that was that and taking a bath for the first time in 16 years was kind of like the
highlights.
I mean, I'd like to say we had a raucous party that lasted to the crack and dawn, but in
reality, you know, I had lost track with everybody, but in terms of the overall, I mean, the world
is much, was much different when I was released than when it, when it was before I originally
was incarcerated.
I mean, cell phones, GPS, internet, these different methods of banking that didn't exist, culture
was different, neighborhoods, houses, buildings, other structures were changed.
It was just enough of them left to be familiar, but then with, but then quite a lot changed.
So it felt like I was, what year was it?
The year was 2006 and I had gotten convicted in, in therefore, incarcerated.
I'm pretty sure the iPhone one came out that year, which is crazy.
Yeah.
Well, I remember from 89 to the iPhone one, that is a long time.
It's great.
Well, I remember I was at this luncheon and my lawyer came up to me and said to me, well,
this reporter who hadn't been able to come wants to speak to you.
Can you, he's doing a story.
Can you speak to him on the cell phone?
So he hands me his phone and I said, yeah, I'll speak to him.
I hands me the phone and, and I say to him, well, where, where, where are the holes at
in the phone?
Where, where am I supposed to speak at?
So all right.
So those things, the culture and then the culture and then neighborhood.
So I felt like I was a parallel world, definitely the social stigma for sure.
You know, very few people question my innocence because, you know, the actual perpetrator
had been arrested and convicted and even there was a report that four experts commissioned
by the district attorney studied my case and issued the report breaking down and all the
different junctures where the system broke down.
So from all that, few people questioned my innocence, but it was more on the stigmatic
level.
Well, you were imprisoned for 16 years, yes, but wrongfully, yes, but you were there for
16 years.
So how much of that rubbed off on you?
Was it safe to be alone someplace with you?
So that's definitely an obstacle.
I went, I went to see mental health professionals.
I went, I used to go like four times a week for like six years, you know, it's common
for people to have post-traumatic stress disorder related symptoms, panic attacks, anxiety,
feeling of processing things at a slower speed, feeling of having been frozen in time.
Like I was released when I was 32, but I felt like I was 17 because that was the year I
was, I was when I was last, last free.
Right.
So dealing with, it was a psychological aspect of that.
Then also I was released with nothing.
You know, I did eventually get compensated, but that took five years, but you know, they
just released me with nothing.
And so, you know, I struggled financially.
I was always passed over for gainful employment.
You know, I was, I did catch on as a weekly columnist or the Westchester Guardian, but
they only wanted one article a week and I was making money doing speaking engagements,
but that also is not a consistent process.
You only get paid when you get booked.
So my point is that I had very few opportunities to have income coming in.
So trying to get jobs and stuff like trying to get jobs, this was all on your background.
Like the, it was, so yeah, so it was all on my, so it was on my background in the sense
that, well, it was not, so I didn't have a rap sheet anymore.
So, so it's a removed from my rap sheet, but if people Google it, it's still on my background
and like I didn't hide it either.
Stigma.
It was still the stigma.
And also it seemed like all the would be employers, you know, they wanted somebody who could hit
the ground running, you know, rather than being patient and doing some on the job training.
So that was another aspect.
Right.
And then also I had to catch up with the technology and that was another, that was another factor.
So it was difficult to have income and I did bounce around from place to place.
I didn't have stability of housing and at one point I was, there's a couple of weeks
away from being in a homeless shelter, but then Mercy College, they had agreed to give
me a scholarship.
So it made it into one of the articles from the journal and it was a human interest item
that I was, I had gotten the GED and the associates degree and I was a year away from the bachelor's
at the time that funding was cut for college education for prisoners.
So, so the Dean, there was a Dean, Dean Alkin from Mercy College and she lined up a scholarship
for me.
And so they allowed me to finish the degree.
And when I was a couple of weeks, when I lost the temporary housing and I was a couple of
weeks away from the homeless shelter, they allowed me to live, they agreed to allow me
to live on campus.
So that's how I avoided the homeless shelter and they gave me the meal plan as well.
So yeah, so that was all, those were all very difficult times.
It was very lonely, very, very lonely as well.
You know, again, it was very awkward when I would meet up with my extended family because
they had never come to see me or, you know, come to see me very sporadically.
So it was hard to relate to them also and all of my friends from the neighborhood had
all long since, you know, moved away.
So I lost track from them.
Now 16 years for nothing, they had to pay you, right?
Yes.
How did that process work?
Does that happen with everyone who gets wrongfully convicted?
It does not.
There's some states that do not have compensation.
And it's a weird thing too because like, what is enough money for throwing away 16 years
of your life and spending it that way?
Like if you were before this happened and they said, hey, you want to get paid X amount
of dollars to do 16 years in prison, like would this be enough to do 16 years?
Absolutely not.
The answer would be absolutely not.
Right.
Or if you were to ask that prosecutor the same question or that judge, like how much
money would it take for you to do 16 years in prison?
I guarantee you it would be way more than anyone gets paid.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah, sure.
I dare say that very few, if any, people would accept any amount of money.
Right.
And I don't even think so would accept a billion dollars to do 16 years.
Right.
What's money?
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, it's, you know, just to concretize a little bit more, you know, I miss, you know,
I didn't graduate high school.
I didn't go to the prom, you know, births, deaths, weddings, rights of passage, you know,
all of those, all of those things were part of the, were part of the loss that I, part
of the loss that I experienced.
So not everybody gets compensated.
So there's some, there's 12 states right now that, that do not get compensation.
Which states?
So one of them is Pennsylvania.
So my, so there's a coalition group called it could happen to you, which I'm a, I'm
a part of.
I'm a nonprofit organization, Jeffery Deskevic Foundation for Justice.
So after five years of this difficulty, I eventually got compensated in terms of what
the process was.
I interviewed a few different lawyers and I ultimately settled on one law firm.
They took the case on contingency, meaning they didn't get paid unless I get paid.
So they, they filed lawsuit in state court and they also filed one in federal court.
After five years, the state settled with me and then three of the defendants settled
with me in a federal court.
And then I went to trial against the polygraphs and I won, won there also.
So in five years, I got, I got some compensation or I had, while all that difficulty time
period was happening, you know, I was also an individual advocate.
So I was writing, I was speaking, I was regularly meeting with elected officials and, and I
was trading privacy for awareness or doing, doing media interviews.
So I did that for about five years and, you know, I wanted to be involved in freeing people,
but I was only able to do that nibbling on the edges.
So there was some cases where people were fighting wrongful conviction cases and I wrote
about it in the, in the newspaper where I was a columnist that are the, sometimes the
lawyers would say, look, will you, will you come to court so the judges can see you for
whatever visual effect may, that'll have, maybe they see you there supporting my client.
They'll pay just a little bit more attention to this one.
They'll pay, you know, instead of the normal rubber stamp denying.
So I would do that.
And I would, similar to that, I would let them put my name in like a press release to
get more media attention than would otherwise be the case.
And sometimes I would help pack the court, you know, encourage other people to show up
just so the judge would say, Hey, people are watching this one.
It's a little bit harder to sweep it, sweep it under the rug.
But all that stuff is kind of like nibbling on the edges.
So when I was compensated, I wanted to go to the next level.
So I took some of the money.
How hard, I mean, how long did the fight take?
Like was it actually, did you have to fight for it?
Yeah, I had to fight for it.
Sure.
It took five years for I got anything.
Yes.
And who, who were you going against?
Who?
Yes.
All right.
So in the, in the conversation case in the state that was going against the, the New
York, the attorney general represents the state in that.
Okay.
And in the federal lawsuit, here's who I was going against.
So it was city of peace skill because it was their police officers who co-worked, helped
the courts, the confession anatomy and didn't document the witness interviews.
And then it was also, it was also, um, Westchester County, because it was their medical examiner
who, who did the fraud.
It was Westchester County legal aid for deficient representation.
And then it was also Putnam County because it was their polygraphists.
So I settled with the three of them and, and in the federal lawsuit, I thought I considered
the polygraphists, um, Daniel Stevens to be one of the worst of the lot because until
he stepped in, the peak skill police were not able to coerce the confession out of me.
And if they never did, then the fraud by the medical examiner wouldn't have happened.
The prosecutorial misconnict wouldn't have happened.
And I would have never then been a file on the public defender's, uh, caseload for him
to, so I consider him to be the worst of the lot.
So I went to trial against him, uh, and, and, and I won.
So that took an additional three years.
So all told against him as an individual, well, uh, well, was he actually, was he present
or was it?
No, he was present.
No, he was present.
So you sue, I sued him as well as the individual cops, all the people as an individual, but
also the municipalities that they worked for.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So at the end of the day, that's, that's only really style points.
Do these guys, you can keep this up just for so long that you're suing them individually
in reality.
At the end, when I went to the, to the, it was time of the jury to deliberate, you know,
you have to drop them individually and just keep going against the municipality because
the danger is that if the jury holds them responsible individually, but not the municipality
that they're working for, you know, they're not, you know, you don't have money, right?
Okay.
So, uh, so I did, I did, uh, I did win a jury verdict against, against him.
So I took a million and a half dollars from that.
And I started a Jeffrey Deskevic foundation for justice, which had the mission of freeing.
You know, I wanted to continue the education and policy work, but I wanted to be, I wanted
to be able to try to free people.
You know, I want to stop nibbling on the edges.
Let's just do this directly.
So you know, I had like in-house, like attorney, investigated, paralegal, you only got a million
and a half.
No, no.
I said, I committed a million and a half.
I didn't get a million.
I got a lot more than that.
How much did you get?
Uh, so, yeah, I'm going to, yeah, I'll explain.
So it was, so I'm paid it.
I know you have to pay the lawyers.
No, yes.
Okay.
So between the state and the federal, there was, uh, about like 24 million dollars paid
total.
Okay.
Total.
Obviously when it all shakes out, it's going to be less.
It's going to be less.
So as in reality, as a plaintiff, you know, you, you, you keep 55 to 60% because the lawyers
get a third.
You have to pay the expenses and everything.
So I, so from that money, I took a million and a half dollars from that to start the
organization.
Okay.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Because, you know, this is a way of reaching back to get free people similar.
Jesus Christ, man.
Uh, it's, it's, it's crazy to think that, I mean, it's, it's a, you have to look at it
both ways.
Like it's unfortunate.
You had to go through everything that you did and it's a, it's a, a nightmare what you
had to go through at such a young age.
But the fact that you, even though that wasn't nearly enough, you should have got a thousand
times more than that.
You know, it's, it's something and it gave you kind of like a springboard to get into
where you're at now.
A hundred percent.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It really did.
You know, um, while I was doing that advocacy work, I told you, I got the scholarship and
I got the bachelor's and then I got the master's degree from John Jay College.
My thesis is written on wrongful conviction, cause and reform started the foundation.
And in total, we've gotten 11 people home that were wrongfully imprisoned, helped pass
three laws aimed at preventing wrongful conviction, um, advisory board member of the coalition
group.
It could happen to you.
And we passed another six laws.
Um, five of them in New York would pass one in Pennsylvania.
So we're doing work now in New York, PA, California, let's get into that for a second in a minute.
But at some point I became not satisfied with sitting in the front row of the courtroom.
I wanted to be able to sit at the defense table.
I wanted to be able to represent some of the clients, make some of the arguments and hence
going to law school.
And, um, as we sit here, um, you know, I'm an attorney.
I've been an attorney for the last couple of years.
Wow.
Um, what happened to the medical examiner?
What happened to the prosecutor?
What happened to the guy who did the polygraph?
Are those guys in jail?
No, they're not in jail.
They were never, they were never arrested.
There was never any real consequences for them.
The most that could be said would be, well, when I brought the lawsuit, the medical examiner
suddenly retired and two weeks before I emerged, the prosecutor suddenly retired and ironically
of all places he then moved to Florida, you know, just to get away from the media storm
of it.
But nobody was ever arrested.
Nobody was ever held accountable civilly.
And even I brought the lawsuit and everything like, you know, the municipalities that they
worked for is what paid.
They never paid anything.
They never gotten trouble in any sense of anything.
And that is something that, uh, that is something that definitely bothers me some even to this
day.
In other words, they cut a check and nothing really changed.
The system didn't change.
Right.
Correct.
Yeah.
Wow.
Speaking of system changing, um, we'd like to discuss a little bit about like, you know,
what I'm, what I'm up to now and including the policy work.
Absolutely.
Okay.
So, um, I'd mentioned I'm an attorney.
So, um, I've, you know, we, the foundation as a whole, we have 17 cases going.
I've involved in like five or six of them as co-counsel.
We're pursuing policy changes.
So here's what we have going on in New York.
So when the law changed in 2017 results, my colleagues and myself, you know, pushing the
legislature to mandate videotaping of interrogations.
When the law came out, it came out watered down and so they made exceptions for sex offenses,
drug cases, and, and murder cases.
And that really makes no sense because those are the cases where we need it the most.
That's what happened to me.
So right now, so the foundation, we do our policy work through the coalition group.
It could happen to you.
And, uh, the policy work that we're doing now, we're trying to get rid of those exceptions.
So we're trying to, so that's one initiative in New York.
Another thing in New York is, um, there's what's called the youth interrogation act.
So that's a bill that says that it recognizes that people who are 16 or 17 years old like,
like I was, we don't understand our rights.
So you have the attorney would have to explain our rights to us prior to being able to waive
the rights and speak to the police.
So there's that.
And then there's a police deception bill, which would prohibit the police from using deception
in the course of interrogations, recognizing that deception is inherently coercive.
So those are three things in New York.
Another one is called the, uh, challenging wrongful convictions act.
So in a nutshell, uh, the reason I had to write letters for four years is because you
don't have a right to an attorney in a post conviction proceeding.
So the youth, so the challenging wrongful convictions act would, it would give people
an attorney to do the investigation and filed filed the motion.
And it would also recognize that sometimes innocent people plead guilty.
It's been estimated that 10% of people who were arrested plead guilty.
So the way that it is now, if I have a client now, uh, Omar Clark and, uh, Omar was wrongfully
convicted of an attempted rape in, um, Erie County, New York, we're literally getting
the case now.
Uh, so he was, um, he was incarcerated pre-trial detention pending his trial.
And, uh, for between six to eight months, and he kept telling his attorney what witness
to speak to protesting his innocence.
The attorney never spoke to the witness, never did any other investigation.
I kept telling Omar, you're going to be found guilty of, of a rape.
You're going to get 25 years.
So why don't you just take the seven year offer.
And on the eve of trial, he was scared and had no confidence in his attorney and he pled
guilty.
And the subsequent to that, um, there's a new, he had, has a new attorney that's representing
him and who, and then I entered the case as co-counsel.
And so a ton of new evidence has come up towards his innocence.
He's not allowed, we're not allowed to argue in court that he's innocent.
We have to argue because he pled guilty.
We have to argue that he had an effective assistance to counsel, inadequate investigation.
Here's what would have the come up otherwise, you know, and this is, but this, that's crazy.
I have to jump to those soups.
So, so the challenging wrongful convictions act would allow people to make an actual innocence
claim and newly discovered evidence claim, even if you've pled guilty.
Why is the system set up to, to where so many people, I think it's like high 90% of people
take pleas and don't actually fight their case in, in, in situations like this.
Like that is the system.
That's the way it works.
Why is it like that?
Is it because of lack of resources?
Yes.
I think it's lack of resources.
And many people even estimated higher 95, 97, 98, I've seen these different percentages.
I think it is lack of, I think it is lack of resources.
I mean, literally if everybody would insist on, you know, exercising their right to a
trial, the, the, the whole system would grind to a halt.
So it's just, it costs too much money, right?
It would be, well, I don't know that it would cost too much money.
I think that it's more money than what society is willing to, who's willing to, to pay.
But the other thing though, I want to mention though, you know, one of the reasons why it's
why, one of the reasons why the average length of wrongful incarceration, at least in the
DNA case is 14 years is because there's a, there's a couple of tensions in the system.
So one of them is finality of conviction versus accuracy, meaning the competing ideas
that look, you had your day in court, you lost, you know, how long are we going to keep
going through this?
So in a way, having a finality, we can't, we can't keep going through this all the time.
So in a way, finality makes sense in a way.
But what good is a final conclusion if that conclusion is not accurate?
So I think whenever there's an objective reason to revisit something, it should be.
But then another thing is what I'll call a proceduralism versus substance of justice.
So why should it have mattered if my petition arrived four days late?
You know, it shouldn't have been, well, am I innocent or am I guilty?
Are my legal arguments correct or are they not?
Rather than the court deciding my case that four days, being late four days, a lateness
caused by the court clerk was a key thing.
So I feel like a lot of judges are not willing to overturn convictions or thinking about,
I mean, thinking about, well, we're undoing all the time and money that went into something
in the first place.
So a lot of sadly, a lot of times whether or not a case can receive justice or not is
not whether the defendant has the facts or law on their side.
It's instead whether something's going to be rubber stamped, denied or not.
So those issues in New York that I mentioned, a couple of parole issues.
So it was called fair and timely parole.
So when I went to the parole board, you know, just they were in the habit, they both ultimately
they denied me because I maintained my innocence and also, you know, they rubber stamped denied
because I was charged with a violent crime.
There's a lot of, a lot of people are just denied no matter what type of rehabilitation
they can show.
They're denied anyway just by nature of the crime.
But that's really counterproductive because first of all, the nature of the crime is something
that could never change.
That was known before the first day in prison was solved and that's almost a complete abandonment
of any idea of a belief in rehabilitation.
So fair and timely parole would mean that the parole board would have to cite an additional
factor in denying parole beyond that, not based solely on that as what happened to me.
Companion Bill called them elder parole.
So you know, according to the Department of Corrections, when you're 55 years old, you're
considered to be elderly just because of the impact of being in prison has on the body.
So you could.
So if anyone who is 55 and has served 15 years minimum would be guaranteed a parole board
appearance, not a release, but an appearance just to be considered whether you could demonstrate
rehabilitation or not.
So those are the things I'm working on in New York.
We did pass the commission on prosecuted conduct.
So the first in the country, independent commission designed to investigate and review allegations
of prosecuted misconduct, recognizing that that's a cause of wrongful conviction that
runs through many of the cases and that, you know, the prosecutors have almost no oversight.
So we passed that trying to get the legislature now to pick the people that are going to serve
on their commission.
So we got the governor to put $1.75 million in the state budget for the commission and
we passed it.
But we need the commissioners to be named so it can start doing its work.
That's in New York and Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania is one of the 12 states along with New Mexico
being another one that does not, they don't compensate people there.
So the coalition group could happen to you.
We have our Pennsylvania chapter.
So I'm active in our Pennsylvania, New York and California chapter.
So we're working on a PA as we're building support for exonerated compensation.
And you know, when we pass that, the next thing is we try to, we'll try to export that
oversight of the prosecutors to Pennsylvania.
In California, we're working on trying to get that oversight for the prosecutors.
So that's what's going on on the policy front.
We talked about changes and in this next year alone, we could possibly free between two
to 11 people in terms of the 17 cases that are active.
But the challenge now, I would say my biggest challenge in running the nonprofit organization
is, you know, is, I don't, my network of people is that have given capacity is limited because
I was in prison for the last 16 years as opposed to making it in business over, you
know, 10, 15, 20 years, I've been out for 16 years now.
Yeah.
So we finally reached the equal equilibrium point.
But my point is I found it hard to raise money, you know, and so we're at our saturation
point right now.
I mean, we might have 17 cases that we're working on, but you know, there's another
seven cases that are, that are approved, but waiting, you know, and it's just like we would
like to be able to do policy work, do something on the federal level and enter a few other
states where advocates are waiting for us to come in the field, such as like Florida.
I've known a bunch of people here.
There's actually a Florida Southern chapter.
There's a Florida Southern college chapter of the Deskevich Foundation here in Florida,
but they're gathering, they're gathering documents and there's a guy who just got exonerated
down here in Tampa, I think.
Yeah.
So, Clemente Aguaier, are you talking about?
Or there was another, there was another person that just in Tampa got exonerated.
Yeah.
But there's definitely people who've been exonerated here in Florida, in Florida by
the way, since we're talking about Florida, I mean, terrible provision down here when
it comes to compensation.
So Florida has what's referred to as the clean hands provision.
And what that means is that anyone who's been exonerated, if they have been convicted
of a crime prior to their wrongful conviction, or if they get in trouble afterwards, they
would not be eligible for compensation.
Really?
Yes.
Yeah.
So that's, so I mean, the lot of people...
That seems so stupid.
It is.
That's something that definitely needs to be changed.
I mean, great for protecting the state, but...
Right.
But yeah, but the state really should be compensating people who've been wrongfully imprisoned.
And I look at my life before, the five years of hell of my first five years of freedom
compared to my life afterwards, like night and day.
And so the idea that people who've been wrongfully imprisoned aren't compensated, you know, it
just seems so unjust, it just seems so unfair to me.
I mean, any other unrelated conduct is irrelevant.
I know Stark, there's a prison called Stark, a couple hours north of here, which is there's
a death row there.
And I know there's a number of people each year that get exonerated that are on death
row.
Right.
I met somebody in New York, Clemente and Wyre, a Floridian resident who did spend time on
death row here in Florida before he was exonerated, you know, Robert Du Bois did like 35 years.
Robert Du Bois.
Yeah, yeah.
Du Bois.
That's the guy who I was thinking of.
Yeah.
I think he did like 35 years, but he hasn't been compensated because there's a prior conviction
before that that he had before that.
So, I mean, these are real, real people and yeah, the death penalty obviously risks the
execution of innocent people, uh, keeping, you know, and then keep in mind that, you
know, most people who, um, most of us, we get wrongfully convicted in the first place
because we can't afford a good attorney and experts in investigation.
So now all those factors are at work in a death penalty case, except that there's now
there's a clock.
There's a clock involved now because when the appeals are over and you're not in court
anymore, the state goes ahead and carries out the, um, carries out the, uh, carries
out the execution.
And there was a, there was a, there was, I remember reading in the New York times that
there was an estimation that, um, like, uh, maybe like four or 5% of the people on death
row nationally were, were, were innocent.
And yeah, that's what, what if, um, what if, I have to ask you, you know, what, what,
what, what if, uh, what if there was a 4% crash rate of airplanes?
Do you think we'd keep flying them up there and just taking the chance?
I mean, I think we'd ground the damn thing, figure out what's causing it, make all necessary,
uh, changes and then cautiously, you know, so applying that same lens and line of reasoning,
you know, when it, when it, when it comes to, comes to the death penalty, when it comes
to wrongful convictions in general, you know, it bothers me to know in that the cause of
wrongful conviction or no prosecutor must conduct, uh, misidentifications cause wrongful
convictions, 75% of the cases lying in formants, 15% bad lawyering.
It's not unusual for one public defender to represent a hundred people at the same time.
The uneven financial playing field, but in terms of the budget between the public defender
and the district attorney's office.
So having an even playing field, so experts and investigators and manpower equal pay for
both sides of the best talent doesn't go to one side or in their private practice.
We think about that and, and, and, you know, junk, junk science and, um, you know, and,
and, uh, forensic fraud, which, you know, that was in, and the false confessions.
I mean, some of these things, you know, the bad lying, false confession, forensic fraud
all happened in my case.
So my point in saying all of this is that the causes of wrongful conviction are known,
but we don't see all the states and the federal government like enact legislative reforms
to address all of these concerns.
You know, like having the prosecutorial commission is known, having better identification procedures.
Those are already identified and by social scientists backed up by data.
We know that in terms of false confessions, videotaping, interrogations from beginning
to end, camera focusing on both people, not having the deception, having rights explained
to youth, you know, we, we know what will, what will a false confession expert testimony.
We know what, um, what changes we, the changes that we need to address these deficiencies
are known, but these are not enacted and codified into law.
And so now today, right now here today, we're lulled into a false sense of security.
We're so advanced technology, right?
And we have DNA testing.
This could never happen now, right?
Well, yeah, I can DNA is only around in five to 12% of all serious felony cases.
So most cases cannot be resolved through DNA, not 88% of them in the best case scenario.
So all those deficiencies that have led to wrongful convictions in the past are still
out there.
Those deficiencies still exist now as a whole.
So this could happen now as, as, as just like it did before, you know, that's why I
think, you know, getting funding for organizations that are doing this work and trying to expand
the donor base, you know, we need more people to step forward.
This needs to be, you know, this, this is a really big problem, you know, wrongful convictions
is a really big problem, but I don't, I don't feel it gets, I don't feel like it gets enough
attention from the, you know, as far as the, the private sphere and, you know, people putting
a ton of money into justice reform, I feel like mass incarceration is kind of stealing
a lot of the oxygen out of the room and, you know, funders need to think about organizations
doing wrongful conviction and work and we need to think also, I mean, if politicians
have both political parties, you know, they raise tens of millions, hundreds of millions
of dollars in what they refer to as small dollar donors, but, you know, why isn't that
done for organizations freeing people, doing policy work?
Why isn't the government, why isn't this a huge priority for the government?
You know, let's make the justice system more accurate, you know, per the National Registry
of Exoneration, you know, more, more than, um, more than 3,100 exonerations from, just
from 1989 forward have happened across the country, you know, and think about, you know,
we don't know, we don't know how many people are wrongfully imprisoned, we can only count
the exonerations because if we could count the people who are not exonerated but wrongfully
convicted, then we could get to them, we could help them, we could release them, you know,
so I kind of believe it's kind of like a iceberg thing, you know, where the part that you see
above the surface is, you know, there's a fraction of the bigger, of the bigger whole,
you know, there's different estimates, 5%, 2.5%, 1%, 1.5%, you know, I think that all
those estimations are lower, I, I, I now, at this point now, there's been, I want to
say about 21 people that I did time with that were exonerated either before me or after
me.
Wow.
That's in 16 years, so I, I, I think, and again, you can't count it, I think the percentage
is between 15 to 20%, you know, the, the anecdotal data seems to be 50 to 20% of, of
the inmate population or innocent.
That would be my estimation, you know, look, the, the anecdotal data seems to be flowing
my way.
It seems like every week we're seeing one or two people that are exonerated, you know,
but when you think about all the call, wrongful conviction cause and you, when one bad actor
is, is like in New York, we had scars, there's this detective named Scarcella in Brooklyn
and at this point is between like 13 to 17 cases that he worked on, people have been exonerated
from just using it as an example of how one bad actor can influence scores of cases in
Illinois mass exoneration day, right?
They had 18 people were exonerated on, you know, the former detective Gore Vera and
his crew and one day 18 people exonerated that they worked on another day 15 and they're
still doing it using that as examples.
Again, one person affecting many cases when you look at jurisdictions where a different
district attorney takes office and has a real conviction review unit where they're proactively
looking for people who are innocent, Dallas Craig Watkins, a more, more than 40 people
were exonerated in eight years through his unit, Ken Thompson, the DDA in Brooklyn for
he passed away, 23 people exonerated two and a half years, Larry Krasner, Philadelphia,
you know, more than 20 people exonerated, but most places don't have those units where
they're real.
But my point in all of this is of all that stuff was done across the board, how many
more people would we get that would be discovered to have been wrongfully convicted.
So all that in support of my non scientific statement, I think it's 15 to 20% anecdotally.
But even if it is just half a percent, when you think about, was it 2.3 2.4 million people
and mesh in the justice system one way or another, any figure you want to put on that
divide, that's still quite a lot of people.
That's still quite a lot of people is what my point is.
And then, you know, you have general, I think human nature of a lot of people too, like
a lot of these prosecutors and a lot of these police that, you know, they just want to climb
the ladder in the bureaucracy, right?
They just like people like Robert Mueller, for example, that just want promotions, they
want to move up to the next level and they want to get as many convictions as possible
as fast as they possibly can so they can make more money.
I mean, greed is, you know, big, greed is a huge factor.
And then, you know, combined with the fact that there's just, it's this entire giant
machine of the prison system in the United States, it's just this big machine and there's
automatically going to be a huge bycatch.
You're going to, a lot of people are going to fall in between the cracks, a lot of innocent
people because, you know, I don't know what the stats are, but I know we have more people
incarcerated per capita than any place else on earth.
So, so unless, I feel like it's got to be more of like, you got to go back to the foundation
of the system and how it's built to sort of fix this problem because it's not, we're
not trying to fix the problem.
We're not trying to find a cure for it.
We're not trying to find a cure to, you know, eliminating crime or murders or the drug problem.
It's just, it's become an industry that makes money and the people that are involved get
corrupted one way or another and it's, you know, money's involved and careers are involved.
And I think that sort of, you know, casts a large shadow over everything else.
And then, you know, also a lot of these people that are getting convicted are, you know, they're
not celebrities.
They're people that nobody knows.
So that's why nobody gives a shit.
Right.
Yeah.
And I definitely agree with that too.
And, you know, a lot of the people that are, that are, you know, arrested, I mean, you
know, these are people typically on the bottom rung of, you know, socioeconomic status wise
and, you know, not, not having very many resources as well.
So the people most vulnerable to that least able to defend how many people, I mean, how
many people putting the guilt or innocence aside for a minute, but just how many people
have the resources of an OJ Simpson, for example, to have that type of legal team and
experts and investigators and everything else.
If people had an OJ type defense, I mean, how many, you know, with that much resources,
how many people, as opposed to, you know, somebody that's just working with a public
defender that, you know, you're very rarely meeting with you, not a lot of time spent
on the case, not vigorously defending, defending cases.
That's another big problem I have, you know, with, with, with, with a death row and death
penalty.
I don't, I don't think we're ever going to see anybody rich.
You think we're ever going to see anybody rich?
No, no, absolutely not.
Right.
So just, yeah, just to, yeah, bring, bring it up.
Yeah.
It's unfortunate.
It's, it's, it's part of the, the whole quote unquote prison industrial complex that, you
know, it's, it's part of a bigger thing that it's, it's impossible to get the reins around.
Sure.
You know, one of the questions that I'm asked by a lot is people ask me, you know, are you,
are you angry?
I get a question semi-frequently and my, my answer is this is, you know, I'm not, I'm
not angry, you know, I'm, I want to, I want to enjoy my life as much as I can and I don't
think I can do that while being angry or bitter at the same time.
I feel like I've lost so much already as is, why would I want to in effect give over the
rest of my life?
And if I was to be angry or bitter, it's not like I would be negatively impacting any
of the people involved in what happened.
I would really be the only loser in that scenario.
I do make sense of everything that, that happened to me in an eclatoscopic manner.
Like I found my purpose in the world, you know, which is to fight wrongful conviction
and free people in the same position I was in, prevent what happened to me from other
people through the, hence the policy work and, you know, secondarily, you know, some
of the other humane things that I, that I witnessed while I was in subjected to and
that I was witnessed while I was in prison, things like, you know, the verbal abuse from
the guards, the prisoner, the prisoner on prisoner violence, the people, so many people
over, over sentenced, the, the terrible medical care in prison, the way the food is, lack
of college education for prisoners, vocational trades, being, being, being, being obsolete,
compassionate release, where if someone's been determined to be terminally ill, that
they could be released so that they could die with a little bit of dignity with their
family in a normal environment.
And what I saw while I was in prison, I mean, often by the time the bureaucracy made a
decision and they were released, they, they, they died like one or two days later.
And sometimes a decision came down after somebody, after somebody had already passed
away, you know, so all of those, just the, the, the indifference, you know, I mean,
I firmly believe that any rehabilitation that happens in prison is despite the system, it's
overcoming the system rather than because of it.
And I think that that's, I didn't know that's backwards.
And I've mentioned all of that to say, hence my secondary interest in general justice reform.
I think the prison should be humane.
No one is saying, I'm not saying anyway, that people who are guilty shouldn't be sent
to prison, that they shouldn't be punished.
I think the sentence should fit the crime and the punishment is supposed to be the loss
of your freedom.
It's not supposed to be that you're going to be mistreated and treated like an animal
or worse while there, you know, um, so, so hence wanting to fight for the, the secondary
justice reform issues.
So I look at everything like that and the vehicle that allows me to not be angry is
I do this work and I take the energy that I feel and I channel it into the advocacy
work and I have some inner peace that way.
And, um, I can, yeah, why dwell on the past, why dwell on the negative, the more you, the
more you think about that stuff, the more you torture yourself and you punish yourself
even more, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
The only one that suffers is you.
That's right.
If that's the mindset that you have a hundred percent.
Yeah.
Yeah, it is, it is for sure.
Well, Jeff, thank you so much for doing this, man.
Sure.
A couple of quick things just, and I just, if people, if the audience has enjoyed the
interview, uh, and they would like to hear a little bit more about me, uh, there is a
documentary short available on Amazon prime, uh, called Conviction was produced by Gio
Words.
So that's available on Amazon prime.
It's, um, if you've gotten into like more than 20 film festivals, it's won a number
of awards.
So if people want to see more about that, um, you know, more about me, they can
certainly check that out.
I'd like to give a brief shout out to, uh, restorative justice international.
I sit on their global advisory council.
I advise them on wrongful conviction issue.
So as an organization, um, you know, when issues come up policy wise in the
legislature, they think about like what position they're going to take.
And so my role in that is I lay out an issue.
I try to keep my opinion out of it so they can understand the issue.
And then I give them what my opinion is also.
And then they decide as a whole, uh, what, um, what, uh, what position as an
organization they're going to take.
And they often interview candidates running on a, uh, on a justice reform, uh,
plank.
So I do enjoy, uh, working with them.
You know, I do, I want to conclude by, by saying that I, I think that the
wind is at our back.
I feel like there's so much work left to be done.
So many laws to be changed.
So many people to be freed.
And yet we have the momentum as kind of like an exciting time in history right
now in terms of, you know, these issues, cause it does seem, it does seem like
every, every year more organizations pop up that are doing innocence work.
There's more individual attorneys, um, getting involved in this.
So I want to encourage listeners.
If you are an attorney, think about doing at least one pro bono, wrongful
conviction case.
Uh, so there is that, you know, the documentaries and docu series and podcasts
and a blog talk radio and written blogs.
So many people are fascinated by the subject man.
They are.
And I just want to encourage people to keep thinking, keep thinking and getting
involved, um, you know, into, uh, into that.
So many different careers.
I mean, we've, within a nonprofit setting, whether it's grant writing, public
relations, social media, websites, uh, uh, fundraising, uh, on the reintegrative
side, social works, psychologists, lots of ways to get involved is my point beyond
just, uh, being an investigator or being, you know, being an attorney.
And look, the fight against wrongful conviction is about justice and accuracy.
It's not against the cops or the prosecutors, definitely against them when
they, when they, when they rogue, when they break laws, when they run over
constitutional rights, state rights, unethical things.
Yeah.
Against all of them.
Okay.
No, it's not a few bad apples though.
You'd like us to think that it's far more than that.
Nonetheless, it's not everybody in all those positions.
So people in those professions, when they do their job in an ethical legal
manner, I have no issues with them.
So I do want to, uh, do want to mention, I do want to mention that.
And, uh, I'd like to put the web, my website out if I can do that.
Uh, www.descovic.org, D-E-S-K-O, uh, V-I-C, you know, we, um, you can follow
me on social media.
I'm on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, uh, foundation has a Patreon page as well.
If you'd like to get involved, you know, um, lots of people out there still
to free.
And, you know, I hope some people have listened to me and, um, you know,
today and feel inspired, you know, reach out there so you can email me
through the website, but definitely we need to get more resources in so that
we can work on still more cases and try to bring policy changes.
Cause I really, at the end of the day, I see wrongful conviction as, um, it's not
a New York problem.
It's not an American problem.
I mean, it is, but larger than that.
This is really a worldwide problem.
And if we have this many deficiencies in the U S, where we're advanced
technologically, especially as considered, uh, versus a third world country, I
mean, what's going on in those countries where there's system, we've got
this many problem here.
You know, what's going on over there where they're not as advanced.
So I really see wrongful conviction as a worldwide issue.
And my wild dream would be that one day we would have not only a chapter of
the foundation in each state, but ultimately in each country.
So,
well, it's a wonderful thing, what you're doing, man.
And, uh, I appreciate you for doing everything in your capacity to get the
word out and share in your story with us today.
All right.
Well, thank you so much for having me share in the platform and, um, by all
means send me the link when this comes out each of the, you know, each of them.
And I'll definitely do my part to, um, uh, promote this on, uh, on, on social
media.
So wonderful platform and thanks so much for reaching out as well.
So we got the mutual admiration society going on.
Perfect.
All right.
Thanks, Jeffrey.
Goodbye world.
