What's up world, we're back again with America's favorite con man Matthew B. Cox.
On this episode, we talk about Matt's latest documentary about to be released in Europe
where they create the con man Olympics in which Matt actually represents the USA.
We're very proud of Matt for that.
Matt also gives his take on the current trial getting started with Elizabeth Holmes and
her company Theranos in which she defrauded investors, committed wire fraud and conspiracy
to commit fraud.
Matt makes his predictions on what the outcome of that trial is going to be and also towards
the end of the conversation, we get into the latest developments of the Gabby Petito
murder investigation and the Florida man who's currently on the run.
It's crazy out there in Florida right now, we got hurricanes everywhere, murderers on
the run.
Luckily we have Matt Cox here to keep us entertained through all of it.
So without further ado, please welcome the man who needs no introduction, especially
to the FBI and Secret Service, Matthew B. Cox.
All right, what's going on?
What do you mean?
I don't know.
Hey Matt, we're back.
We're back.
Wagwan.
Wagwan, Matt Cox.
What's up Matt?
Welcome back to the show Matt Cox.
The FBI's most wanted con man?
Still not Ron.
Still not.
Top 10.
America's most wanted top 10.
I was on the Secret Service.
I was number one on the Secret Service.
That's what I meant.
That's what I meant.
How you been man?
How's life going bud?
I mean it's going okay.
What are you been doing lately?
What have you been up to?
Been working?
I just got back from Amsterdam.
That sounds like a place I want to go.
How'd that go?
You would like Amsterdam.
I like Amsterdam.
Yeah.
I just wasn't able to do any of the things.
Partake.
Partake in the extracurricular activities.
Yes, exactly.
What did you do?
Why did you go to Amsterdam?
There's a series called Psychology of a Con Artist.
They're doing a six part series.
Scoot the mic a little bit.
You don't have your headphones.
You can't tell how good your voice is.
Oh, you want me to put them on?
Yeah, you don't mind.
You could probably turn his mic up a hair.
So bro, I go to Amsterdam and are you nervous?
With the girlfriend?
You went with the girlfriend?
No, no, no.
I'm dating this chick and then as soon as I get back, boom.
We break up.
Why?
Honestly, I never get an exact answer.
The answer that I typically get is so ridiculous.
It's not you.
Yeah, it's the whole it's not you.
It's me.
It's not going to work.
You've heard this before.
It's ridiculous.
Is this the same girl you broke up with before?
We talked about in the last podcast.
First of all, I've never broken up with her.
She breaks up with me.
She breaks up with me every three or four months and it goes three days, maybe four
days and then she starts texting.
This is killing me and I can't stop thinking about you and of course I reciprocate.
I'm angry but whatever and it goes back and forth and then she comes over and then she
comes back and forth for three or four weeks and then it's like, can we start seeing each
other again?
I made a mistake.
So we get back together.
Back together.
Everything's fine.
Three months later, boom.
Same thing.
It's never going to work.
We're too different.
We're totally different people, obviously.
We have nothing in common.
It doesn't seem to be an issue.
We talk all the time.
We joke around.
We have fun.
We don't argue.
It's just not going to work.
I'm always like, look, if you're banging somebody else, tell me that.
Tell me you're nailing somebody else and I'll be like, okay, yeah, we are done but it's
never that.
Tell me.
Why would that be the thing that you need to hear?
I think that would be a nice clean cut.
This is clearly not working.
You're nailing some other guy.
We're done.
See you.
We get along.
I'm in love with you.
I love the sex.
I love being around you.
I love talking to you.
I have fun when I'm with you, but it's never going to work, but the words don't match the
actions.
Why?
Tell me I'm too old.
She's 34.
Right now I'm 52.
She's 34.
It's always been an 18-year difference, obviously.
18-year difference.
Tell me I'm too old for you and she's like, you're not too old for you.
She's like, I don't look 34 and you don't look 52.
We basically look like we're the same.
We both look like we're in our 40s.
It's not that.
I'm like, okay, well, you know, tell me it's, like, give me a reason that makes sense.
She's like, I just can't.
I'm like, tell me you're not in love with, say, look, you know, I'm not in love with
you.
I'm just not in love with you.
You know how you know.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, look, I've tried.
I like you.
You're cool.
I like hanging out with you, but it's just never going to become love for me.
Tell me that.
I can't get that.
You know, I could be like, you're right.
I can't make you be in love with me.
And she's like, it's not that I am in love with you.
I think about you all the time.
I this, I that's like, it's just not going to work.
Okay.
You know what?
I mean, so, and that's what it was this time.
So it's just done.
And only this time I knew it was serious because and this, I told you this, this is so stupid.
I know it's stupid.
And I've heard people say it when I was locked up, like I'd heard people say stuff like this
on TV and I always thought that's got to be the dumbest thing I've ever heard.
This is how I know it's serious.
This is how I knew that was it.
She's serious this time.
She within a day or two, she changed her relationship status on Facebook.
That's it, bro.
It's, it's over.
It's real.
It's real.
Like, because you got to think before when we were not see each other for whatever, four
or five days or a week.
And then we just, we were just kind of sleeping together.
She never changed.
Never once.
She's been with him within a day.
Boom.
Done.
It's like, wow.
Okay.
That's so funny how people in their fifties, the people in their fifties act the way we
used to act like in high school about social media.
Because when we were in high school, we probably would worry about a girl, a girl changing
their social status of being single or in a relationship or whatever.
You don't even know what I'm going through.
You're married.
It's over.
Like you don't even remember what it was like to be pathetic and feel insecure.
Of course I do.
Yes, I do.
You're like, you don't need her.
Yes, I do.
I'm always saying, you don't need her when you've got some chick.
You're always the guys like, fuck her.
Yeah, because you're living with someone.
You've got her locked down.
It's over.
You're all good.
It becomes fuck her, but when it's you, it's like, fuck, this is the worst.
But it's so weird.
Why can't you just be happy, just playing the field, doing your work and just banging
random broads?
Because I'm 52 and it's almost over.
My best years are way past me.
They're gone.
You're not good and solitary.
You need a cellmate.
Absolutely.
I need a cellmate.
I need someone who's going to be down with me for the whole thing.
That's what I need.
And the worst thing is too, I know part of it, I get it because she didn't want to move
in.
And so I knew when we first met and she did want to move in, then she didn't want to
move in.
And I always knew that was an issue.
But as we started talking, I started realizing the major issue is it's hard to fight with
me.
Like I'm very easy to get along with.
I almost never draw a line in the sand.
I never have 100% opinions.
This is the way to, like I'm totally okay if we don't agree on the same subjects.
I'm pretty easy going.
You want to do this.
Okay, well, I wanted to do this, but if this is important to you, then it's important
to me and I want to do it.
I'm available almost all the time because I work for myself.
So all of these things make me a guy that's difficult to not get along with and not, which
probably drives some women crazy.
Right.
It makes her nuts.
I'm always available.
I'm always this.
I don't argue.
I don't.
So I guess in her mind, maybe she's just like, maybe she's just not interested or disinterested
or I don't fight or argue with her or she needs a challenge.
Maybe she needs, I keep telling her, I say, look, I get it.
You want a guy that drives a forklift that will come home drunk.
She wants shame.
She wants shame.
Right.
She's going to have to check it off.
A few of those boxes.
Keep going.
Double DUIs.
So far, three for three.
Six three.
Every three months, you got to get him out of jail.
He's six three.
Right.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Six three.
Yeah.
So yeah.
And I even said that one time.
Tell me that I'm too short.
Tell me that.
That is when we're arguing when I'm, when every time we break up, this is how much
I go, tell me that like I'll make, I'll make, and she's like, it's not that.
I'm like, tell me that it's, you know, and, and she's make anything other than this ridiculously
stupid answer.
What do you think it really is?
What do you think the real answer is?
I mean, I think she's just, I think she's just not in love with me, but she's, but I'm,
I'm easy to go along with.
I'm fun to be around.
I'm funny.
I'm like, like the last time she broke up and got back together with me, here's what
she said.
Okay.
Listen, if you aren't already gambling and betting on sports, you need to be because
I've been cashing in big for the last two months after I signed up with my bookie.ag.
I fucking love my bookie.
I was using my bookie way before they reached out to sponsor the show.
And this month only our listeners and subscribers are going to get matched on their first deposit
up to $500 when they sign up with my bookie by using the promo code concrete, K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
Football season is officially here and betting, uh, my throat is so, my fucking voice is so
fucked up.
Football season is officially here and the betting has begun.
It's time for you to win big with my bookie.ag.
They have all the crazy pregame prop bets you could ask for.
And you can even bet the games live to shift the odds into your favor and always come out
on top.
The leading betting site globally, that's why we use it and I've been making so much
goddamn money.
I'm going to start investing in some more real estate.
If you want to bet and win big this NFL season, it's got to be with my bookie.ag.
Sign up today with the promo code concrete, K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E and you're going to get matched
up to $500 on your first deposit.
So do it now.
Back to the show.
After we'd been, we broke up for a few days, then we start sleeping together again.
It's coming over three, four days a week now.
And then, so after a month or so, this was how we got back together.
She said, I would be stupid not to be with you.
You're a great guy.
So I would be stupid for us not to be with you.
I don't know what I was thinking.
It's just stupid for me not to be with you.
Well, that's not because you're kind of a catch and you're easy to get along with and
you're a nice guy and you're funny, that would be stupid for me not to be with you.
You should really just want to be with me because you're in love.
And so what happens is three months later, I just think she's just not in love.
That's probably the case.
It probably is the case.
Right.
And she just doesn't want to say it because she doesn't want to hurt my feelings.
And I've even said that, like, look, you're not going to hurt my feelings, okay?
It's impossible for you to hurt my feelings.
Well, why can't you just take this input and just do the math, one plus one is two.
Why can't you just walk away from it?
Why can't you why can't you put it to bed?
Because I love her.
You know, like, you know, this pathetic guy, those pathetic women that, like, you know,
he's beating you every night, but I love him.
Yeah.
That's how I feel when I say that.
But, you know, because I did it because, you know, I love being around her and seeing
her and being around her and, you know, but whatever.
I mean, it's fine.
It's over.
So I'll figure it out.
I'll work it out.
I'll be back in three weeks.
It's one of the it's one of the it's one of the worst things that human beings have
to deal with is the same thing that you're going through is just relationship problems
and people suffer because of that.
And I always wonder if, like, down the road through whether it's some sort of some sort
of technological enhancement, like, like the Elon Musk's neuro link, where we'll be, we'll
have the ability to flip a switch and just turn off an emotion.
What was that movie?
Was it Reliqui for a Dream or something?
I forget where.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Requiem for a Dream.
Was that Requiem for a Dream?
Yeah.
They removed the memory of the girl.
I don't know if it's the same movie.
I figured what they did.
I haven't seen it in so long.
Yeah.
It was Jim Carrey and he was in love with this chick and he goes to some guy who can
remove the memory of a person.
Really?
Right.
So.
Oh yeah, that's exactly what we need.
Right.
And so Jim Carrey is kind of going a little crazy because he feels like something's missing
but he doesn't know what it is.
And the guy actually, they actually mail out these cards to all your friends and family
and explain, this is what's happened, this is a procedure, do not mention this person
to him.
Oh wow.
And then somebody at some point I think shows him the card.
And then like he goes back to the doctor and he tries to say, I want to know what's
happening, who is she, where is she, what's going on, what did you do, it's a whole thing.
I need to watch this again.
I need that doctor.
Yeah, you do need that doctor.
That's what I need.
Yeah, but I mean, what if you could do, I mean, sometime in the future there's got to
be a way to where you can do it without really, you don't not really like deleting.
It's Jared Leto.
Oh, it is.
It's Jared Leto.
Yeah.
Jared Leto.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Okay, then it's the wrong movie.
This was Jim Carrey.
This guy was.
Are you sure?
I'm sure it was Jim Carrey and they removed it.
Well, it was obviously I got the name of the movie wrong.
Well, it's hard to get the name of that movie wrong.
That's a very, very famous movie.
It sounds like a story you're talking about maybe.
Really?
What is it?
Requiem for a Dream.
Anyways, can you pull it up on there?
Um, but there's got to be a way, there's going to be a way for like, not, not to delete
the memory, just to delete the emotion because, you know, just make it.
Then you're basically a robot.
I mean, that's what a robot is.
It's kind of a motion.
Right.
But if you, if it's a, if it's an emotion that's going to benefit you to turn off and
you're suffering and you're depressed because what motion is that love instead of taking
instead of fucking instead of drinking alcohol and take it, poppin pills, smoking, trying
to bury the emotions, you just flip a switch and you can just get rid of it, the negative
feelings and maybe reverse it into a positive feeling or something.
Ooh, ooh.
Do you have mushrooms?
I got it.
I got it.
It's called it's eternal sunshine.
Eternal sunshine.
Eternal sunshine.
Oh, wait.
Of the spotless mind, eternal sunshine of the spotless mind.
That's it right there.
Can you text me that?
Sure.
It's amazing.
It's a great, it's a, I don't want to say it's an amazing, it's an interesting movie.
Kate Winslet.
Kate Wins, Winslow?
Yeah.
And so like he's programmed to forget her.
There's a couple good ones in there.
David Cross.
Hmm.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
So yeah.
So I go to Amsterdam.
Yeah.
Why'd you go to Amsterdam?
Okay.
I went to Amsterdam because there's a documentary company.
They contacted me like whatever.
They contacted me like a year ago and then there was the COVID thing.
It was like in the middle of the COVID thing and they were trying to work out how do we
get you over here.
I literally, so they're doing a six part series on the psychology of a con artist.
They are doing like one on a guy from like Germany, one from a guy on France, from France,
one guy's from the UK, one guy's from whatever.
And then I'm the guy they chose from like the United States.
So you're representing the United States.
Representing Danny.
As the United States best con man.
And the con man Olympics, you're representing the United States.
I mean you would think they'd get Belford or something, but yeah, what they said was
that I was extremely forthcoming and willing to talk.
No, he's immediately disqualified because he's a New Yorker.
Why?
I don't know.
Like New Yorkers?
No, because he's a fucking New Yorker.
He's Italian, New York guy.
He's first of all, he's Italian, so he's automatically a pervert.
Wow.
And the subscribers just dropped like Cuomo.
So perverted.
He's just Italian.
He's not horny.
He's just Italian.
So he just got that, he just got that, I don't know, he's just a salesman really.
He is a salesman, but I think speaking salesman is kind of a part, a little con man.
Yeah, you go out and be a little con, you need to be a salesman.
But there's a difference between a guy like him and a guy like you.
There's a very, very obvious difference, talking to a guy like him and then talking
to a guy like you.
He's just one of those, he just reminds me of every high energy sales hustler guy.
He's a hustler, really.
Right.
He's not a...
Almost like a pyramid scheme.
You're more of like a...
It's a pump and dump scheme.
Yeah.
It's a pump and dumper.
Yeah.
But you're more of like a...
Hitting the vault.
You thought out, everything you did was well planned out, well thought out, you went to...
He was bringing companies public.
I mean, he...
Yeah, he was...
Yeah.
It was thought out.
It was thought out.
He was...
No, but not to the level that you were doing it.
You were literally...
It's a little more one-on-one maybe.
He was $102 million.
Like, I mean, I wasn't at that scale, but I hear what you're saying, but...
You were creating and manufacturing identifications, you were buying Social Security numbers from
more hands-on.
Really kind of working in a gray area that was...
It was all seemingly legit, and he was really just cooking the books.
So I get it.
He wasn't like...
He wasn't like running like scams, and it was still a scam, it just was more of a cook-in-the-books
type of deal.
And he was doing it all in his name, and he was...
So yeah, I totally get...
Okay, I definitely say it was...
Definitely mine was 100% in the gray, or in the red, in the black, or whatever it was.
This was from start to finish fraud.
Right, fraud.
Like, it was out to just...
It was a total scam.
Right.
Okay, I get that.
So anyway, yeah, so they wanted to talk to me.
So they flew me out there.
First of all, I had to get my judge to sign a...
I had to apply in front of the judge to have permission to apply for my passport and leave
the country.
Not an easy task.
I owe $6 million.
Two of my charges are passport fraud.
One is...
How the fuck did you pass this test?
You go in and say, like, I know how this sounds, but I need a passport.
And look, my argument to my attorney that put in the motion to the judge, I was like,
listen, I think honestly, I said, I feel like, you know, I don't need permission to get a
passport.
Like, I can get a passport.
She was like, Matt.
Don't go there.
That's not an argument.
I'm not even...
Please don't joke about that.
And I'm like, all right.
I'm just saying.
So I think that's part of the argument is like, look, your honor, I'm trying to do the right
thing here.
Shown up in good faith.
Right.
Like, don't make me go the other way.
No, I'm just kidding.
So anyway, so anyway, she, um, she went in front of him.
She said, look, this is how he makes his, you know, his living.
This is a thing, blah, blah, blah.
And they said, okay.
And he said, okay, fine.
So my two charges, one was applying or applying for a passport, like fraudulently applying
for a passport.
And the other one was use of a fraudulent passport.
So one, first you applied for, for several of them.
And then when you got them, you used them, like you didn't just get the thing, keep it.
You went out of the country back and forth several times.
So he said, okay, I'll let him get the passport and yes, he can leave.
So I got the passport.
Do you know the one I used to apply for passports?
You could get one in about 15 or 20 days if you paid the extra, like the expedited.
I know.
I got one a couple of years ago in like less than a week.
Yeah.
Well, guess what?
Now it's like, it's like eight weeks behind.
It took like between six and eight weeks for me to get one.
Damn.
So I get it.
I go to Amsterdam.
I get there.
They put me up in a great hotel.
I was there eight days, put me up in a great hotel, walked around the city.
You know, I had a couple of days here and there to myself a few hours here, a few hours
there.
Like that would have been awesome to be there with a chick.
You weren't in any fans.
But instead it's just me.
Did I tell you that?
What?
Did I tell you that about the guy?
No.
You're going to love this.
What?
Okay.
So I go into, with my mask on, by the way, when I get to the airport, Tampa International
Airport, I'm there standing in line and somebody came, one of the Delta people come up to me.
They say something to me and blah, blah, blah.
I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I said, well, which line do I need to be in?
Is this international?
Right.
Like, and they were like, yeah, yeah.
I was like, okay, cool.
And the, these two guys turn around.
They're from Slovakia, by the way.
This is in what airport?
Tampa International.
Okay.
They turn around and the guys, they look at me and the one guy goes, you were on a podcast
or something, right?
And I went, yeah, how'd you know that?
And he goes, well, I recognize you.
I went, I got a mask on and he goes, no, no, I recognize your voice.
Uh-huh.
And he said, yeah, yeah, you were on that, shoot.
He goes, what's that fucking jerk off's name?
And I go, Danny, I go concrete.
I knew immediately.
Yeah.
And I go, Danny.
And then the other guy goes, he goes, yeah, yeah, yeah, concrete, concrete.
He goes, with the K, they spell if I say, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so the, his buddy and I go, what do you get?
Look, that's what he said.
I believe it.
I could lie.
I'm not going to say jerk off.
I believe it.
Yeah.
He, they had a few choices.
Yeah.
He's always interrupting.
He's this, he's that.
I go, and yeah, I go, but you keep watching.
Same guys in the comments.
I look there.
I said, you, I go, you still watch it though.
Don't you?
He goes, well, he's got good guests and it's, he's not, he's not bad.
I mean, I, you know, so, um, so anyway, he said that.
And then he was like, uh, hey, what do you, what do you think about this whole COVID thing?
Do you know about this?
And I went, here we go.
What do you mean?
And he goes, this whole COVID thing.
And I went, he goes, this is the biggest scam of them all.
And I was like, what?
And so he starts telling me about how he thinks that this whole thing, it's all, you know,
and there are those, the conspiracy guys and I get it, you know, and there is some of that.
I get that.
First of all, thank you, Matt for getting this podcast demonetized by YouTube.
I just realized that too.
I just realized that too.
When I said it.
It's all right.
Yeah.
You have to clip that.
I'm sorry.
We'll leave it in the bucket.
So anyway, he goes on and on about this whole thing.
Right?
No.
I mean, he's right.
Like he's right.
I don't doubt for a second.
Oh yeah.
They'll flag it.
Yeah.
So he goes on and on about it.
And he's like, and I was like, look, take down my email, send me the stuff, the information,
whatever, you know, blah, blah, blah.
And we talked and you know, seemed like a nice guy.
He's from Slovakia, I think both of them were.
He was going back there.
He was like giving up his U.S. citizenship.
Like he had a whole.
He's out of here.
Super upset with the United States.
Really?
Oh yeah.
He was all.
Was he wearing a Make America Great again hat?
No, but he was upset.
Like to me, I'm not going to Slovakia.
I'm not giving up my U.S. citizenship, no matter how upset I am.
So yeah, he's upset.
He's upset.
He had a whole thing.
And he wanted to talk to me.
So what was he saying?
Why did he say it was a scam?
I mean, it was all, I didn't really get into it because we're in line and we're moving forward
and I'm trying to get on the plane.
I'm not trying to get deep into conversation with this guy.
Right, right.
And look, you know, people believe what they're going to believe.
You know what I'm saying?
I mean, who am I to say like 10 years from now for all you know what's going to happen.
So but the point is, is he was super upset about it.
So anyway, that's one guy or those are two guys, but he was the first one.
Then I get to Amsterdam and I forget the plug.
I can't, you know, the plug that goes in the wall.
So I had a whole issue with my plug thing.
So I go to one place and I go to another place.
I end up in a supermarket because I also forgot deodorant.
So I'm walking around buying this stuff that I forgot.
I go in and get deodorant and this guy walks by me in the supermarket.
He walks by me.
He looks at me.
I look at him.
Keep walking.
I get my deodorant and I come back and as I walk by, he goes, Hey, man.
And I said, Yeah, what's up?
And he goes, I love your podcast, bro.
And I go, Get the fuck out of here.
Are you serious?
And he goes, Yeah, man, I've watched a bunch of them.
I watched you on concrete with that, that jerk Danny.
No, he didn't say that.
No, he said, Yeah, with, I watch you on the other one, the concrete with the two guys.
And I said, Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I said, Danny and hat rack and he goes, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he said, and Patrick, he was Bet David.
I watched that one.
Like he started naming off.
I was like, Wow, he's like, I've watched a bunch of your stuff.
And I said, I've got a channel.
Did you subscribe?
And he goes, I didn't subscribe.
I'm sorry.
I did it right then.
I was like, All right.
I said, You did the right thing.
So, so that was, I mean, in Amsterdam, that's pretty cool.
That was cool.
Like that was cool, bro.
That's badass, bro.
Yeah, that was awesome.
How did it make you feel?
I felt great.
I was like, this, this may be something.
This may be something.
You're on to something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You're on a tear, Matthew Cox.
Yeah.
You know why?
All because my buddy, Trion, said, You, you ought to get in touch with this guy, Danny.
Really?
It's so crazy.
It's crazy, huh?
My only option was trying to get some articles made, put up a website, like, I don't really
know what to do.
I want to do a true crime podcast.
I don't know how to do it.
Like, I don't know.
I was already kind of watching videos and I didn't quite know and it just happened
to be, he was wrong.
Like the reasoning wanted me to contact you was like, you know, for real estate.
And I was like, Oh yeah.
Because of life or sale.
Doesn't want to talk to me about real estate.
Yeah.
He's like, Well, with the other thing, the other thing, like you, you got a story.
You could, he interviews people.
I was like, nobody interested in my, my stuff.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I'll, I'll, I'll send him an email.
Anyway.
So yeah, that was pretty cool.
So anyway, I go to the store or go to the shop.
It turns out that I thought they kept pitching this thing as a documentary, right?
On con men.
So it's a documentary.
Yeah.
Documentaries are typically low budget.
Right.
So relatively.
Right.
Right.
I mean, there are other ones, right?
There are the ones with reenactments, but when I think of documentaries with reenactments,
I typically think about, I typically think about like, um, I almost got away with it.
Or what is one of the best ones is, um, locked up abroad.
Like that's a pretty good one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I saw a really good one recently where they had really fucking good reenactments.
What was it?
Was it Netflix or something?
It was Netflix.
They're doing great ones.
Like they're really doing good reenactments.
This one was like crazy with like cartoons and animations and I can't remember what it
was right now.
Well.
Right.
So I get there and they had said, Oh, there's going to be some, there's going to be role
in summary and act.
And it's like, I felt like, okay, this is kind of low budget.
Listen.
So I get there.
Man, this place, I was way wrong, bro.
Like this is like top notch.
Like did I send you the pictures?
You did.
Oh, they've got fucking crazy.
You know those red cameras, the camera, like how much are those things?
They vary.
Like the cheapest ones are 15,000.
They go up and they're in the hundreds of thousands.
Like they've got, like every other camera I'm looking at is red, red, red.
I mean, they've got, it's just, it's huge.
They've rebuilt all of these sets for the main set that they have.
Like they have this huge set that they're using, which is like a museum and it's super
ultra modern.
They've rebuilt all of these rooms in the museum inside of their, not studio, but what
do you call it?
Like, like the back lot, it's, it's, I don't know, whatever.
It's like a huge building and they've got rooms inside.
They've got all these sets and it's like soundstage right away.
I start realizing, this is way, and then I'm like, Hey, who's, so there, are you doing
reenactments?
They're like, yeah.
Like who did you get to play me?
They, they, they pull up the pictures of the guy and I'm like, really, that's really
not bad.
Do you have a picture of him?
No, I don't.
Oh yeah.
I would love to see the guy.
I should have got you to play.
Yeah.
Could you imagine them scouting the guy, scouting the actors, getting them, getting them to
do auditions to be my cogs?
They were like, they were like, he's your height.
He's your size.
They said he's, you know, they said he's about your body, you know, your good hairline.
Yeah.
I was like, hold me hairline.
I was like, nice.
Nice.
Wow.
It was good stuff.
So anyway, I go there.
I do that.
So that we spent like four or five days shooting.
I was interviewed by all these different psychiatrists, took all these tests, then I fly back, went
to Atlanta.
There was a bomb scare in Atlanta, so it was like four hours in Atlanta.
I finally get on my plane.
Oh, no, no, no, that's, that's what I was going to tell you.
That's what we were laughing about when I got, when I get to, when I get to the United
States.
So when I went into Amsterdam, by the way, I walk up to passport control.
I show him my passport, guy looks at the passport and he goes, okay, he said, where
are you staying?
And I went, oh man, I don't know.
Hold on.
I start looking through my paperwork and he goes, where do you hear business or pleasure?
I go, oh business.
He goes, what's, what's the name of the company?
And I went, um, God, it's like tops.
Um, I don't know.
It's in, it's like, I was German or something.
I don't know.
I'm looking, I'm looking.
He's sitting there.
He goes, whatever, move on.
Yeah.
He goes, yeah, man, you're, you're okay.
Just go.
It's fine.
I walk right in.
I'm like, that was easy.
Done.
We get, I get to the United States after standing in line for whatever 30, 40 minutes.
When you're coming home.
Coming in to the United States, coming home.
I get in there, walk through passport or, you know, in the line, the six or seven people
in front of me, like they walk up, they flash your passport.
Boom.
The guy goes, he scans it.
He goes, okay.
Thank you.
Definitely.
Thank you.
Next one.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I get there.
Beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep,
beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep.
Put the passport way over here, like I was going to snack it.
It's like, I'm going to snap it out of his hand and run.
Where am I going?
And I was like, huh.
And then he starts kind of, you know,
looking through the, he's got the computers,
but he's going down on the screen, right?
He's like, not scanning, but whatever, he's click, click.
Click, click, click, click.
Oh, fuck.
Click, click, click, click.
He's going on and going, I mean, it's a lot.
He's sitting there and he looks at me and I go,
fine, now I'm thinking, this is not good.
Fuck.
And I went, I said, how bad is it?
And he goes, well, it is what it is.
And I was like, I mean, am I gonna make my flight?
He goes, well, you're definitely gonna have to talk
to somebody and tell you that.
And as I go, I was like, I mean,
I'm cutting it close on my flight, you know?
I ended up missing it anyway because of the bomb scare,
but I'm sitting there all of a sudden,
a guy comes walking down, I see him walking.
The guy takes my passport, the guy I'm talking to,
puts it in this thick, clear plastic bag with a zipper,
zips it up and hands it to this guy who walks right up,
grabs it and he goes,
follow me, Mr. Cox.
And I was like, like, how does he know my name?
I'm like, okay, so I follow him.
I have to sit down for about five minutes
while these guys are talking and talking.
And then finally they call me up and I walk up.
I mean, I walk up and the guy's like,
so what's this about?
And I went, I don't know.
I said, I'm not sure.
I said, he said, you know what it's about.
And I went, well, I mean, I, I,
assuming I was, I'm a felon.
I'm, he goes, he's looking at me, he goes,
it's more than that.
And I went, I looked at her and I went,
I thought, okay, you know, it was funny before,
like, cause I know I'm good.
And he goes, do you have anything?
And I went, like, now I'm thinking,
do they think I have drugs?
Like, and I went, have anything?
He goes, yeah, I mean, you're on federal probation.
He said, how did you leave the United States?
And I go, well, I have permission.
I wouldn't leave without permission.
And he goes, he goes, oh, you'd be surprised
how many people do.
And I went, he goes, do you have anything?
I said, yeah.
Said, I have a, I have a travel permit
from my probation officer.
And I said, I have a motion from my judge
that says I'm allowed to leave the United States.
And he looks at all manufactured on Photoshop.
Oh, he was, he, he sat there and he goes, he said,
what did you do?
It's like a Ponzi scheme or something.
I went, no, no, it's real estate.
It was just real estate.
He's like, well, what is it?
Cause he said, you were, there was, he said, there's a,
I forget, it wasn't a red notice.
He didn't say a red notice.
He said something else with Interpol.
He said, there's an Interpol such and such.
He said, a watch list.
Right. And I went, I said still.
And he goes, and he went, I mean, no, but there was,
he said, and it was, he said, like, what did you do?
I said, well, I was on the run for like three years.
He goes, oh, okay.
And I said, I have multiple passports and I go,
but that one's good.
And he goes, okay.
And so we had this like 15 minute conversation.
And I'm like, bro, I mean, honestly,
I said, am I going to be able to make my flight?
He goes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Let's just wrap this up.
Okay. So he scanned this and-
Did you tell him to subscribe?
Yeah, subscribe to the podcast.
Hey, can you do me a favor real quick before I go?
So I leave.
Then there was the bomb scare thing.
And that was three hours later and I got,
but yeah, that was funny.
Wow.
It was funny.
I really thought, I really felt like I was going to sail
right through.
Are you sweating and you're nervous at that time?
I wasn't nervous until he started doing,
once I thought, okay, well, maybe it's,
I didn't even really think federal probation.
I just thought, felon, like I knew there had been
what's called like, what's called a red notice
on me at one time.
And all that means is like arrest him immediately
and hold, you know, hold this person,
not don't detain him, like hold him.
Yeah.
And don't notify it cause they have other notices
like, look, let him in, but notify us.
But it wasn't that it was for me.
It was like, no, no, no, you hold him.
But so I thought it might be that,
but when then he said federal probation
and then he was like, do you have,
like when she gave, when my probation officer,
she's given me travel permits before
and nobody's ever asked me for it.
So when he asked for it, I was like, oh, gee.
Thank God I printed that thing out.
Yeah.
Like, nice.
Got it.
And thank God I brought the motion too.
Is that, is this the first time you've left the country
since you were released for prison?
Well, I went to Puerto Rico.
But you don't need a passport for Puerto Rico.
Right, right.
But they never asked me for anything.
I walked in and out, no big deal.
Right.
I wonder what they see on the computer when you're here.
Oh, I'd love to see like what,
cause he doesn't know exactly what you did.
He didn't.
But he sees something.
And it's, he saw something big.
He only knew.
Just a flashing red like,
Warning, warning.
He only, he only seemed like he knew it was financial
or bank fraud or something.
I wonder if they see like a dollar number or something.
Or just charges maybe.
Maybe the charges.
Like I don't know.
And by that point, I am concerned.
Like at that point he's like,
he's not kind of laughing it off like I was.
I was laughing it off cause I knew I'm good.
Right, right.
Then he starts like, you know,
it made me feel like I was doing something wrong.
Like I started feeling, even though I know I'm not.
Like I started feeling like I'm doing something wrong.
So.
That must be the best part of those guys' jobs.
Making people sweat?
No, just like meeting people like you.
Like me, like seeing those like interesting people
come through, you know,
with the crazy backgrounds or something crazy on,
on inner pull on the watch list or whatever.
That must be like the, they come home from work.
They gotta Google you after that or something.
Yeah. They come home from work.
Who is this guy?
Did anything new happen at work today, honey?
You'll never believe the guy I met today.
He came through customs.
This guy, Matthew Cox.
You know what's, you know what's,
it's funny because whenever I meet somebody,
like typically I just talk to people.
Like I'm just talking like you would talk to, right?
And every once in a while,
somebody, it, something comes up.
And I realized like when they,
I get that, that shock look on their face.
So that what I realized, oh, that's right.
That's not normal.
Like, right, right.
That's not, cause for me, it feels normal.
Yeah.
And then suddenly they're like, whoa, what, what?
Well, what do you, what do you mean?
I'm like, oh man, that's right.
Oh, see, okay here.
And then I'm like, I explain kind of real quick.
You know, I try and slim it down as quickly as possible.
And then they're like, and then it's,
instead of them being like,
wow, that's interesting to walk.
Now they're like, bro, like, how did you that?
And then I realized, oh yeah.
Okay.
Like this guy work, I forgot, this guy works,
he works in, you know, he works in the,
He's a mailman.
He works in the warehouse at Walmart.
So do this, the company that shot,
shooting this documentary, producing this documentary,
is it a six part series?
Yes.
Do you know where it's gonna be published?
Do they already have it sold or?
Yeah, they said it's, it's like, I wanna say,
I could be wrong, it was like four different networks
throughout Europe.
Apparently they're like blocked off like this.
These two countries are a part of this network.
And then one, the network, it's a, is it Prime Plus?
Here in the United States or Prime?
And I guess you get so many channels with Prime.
And one of them is like Discovery 2,
which is like all documentaries.
Amazon Prime?
Oh, I'm sorry, Amazon.
What did I just say?
Prime Plus.
Prime Plus.
Amazon, Amazon, I'm sorry, it's Amazon.
So it's on, is it Amazon Prime?
Yeah.
So Amazon Prime, and they've got,
so many channels with that.
And so you end up having like Discovery 2,
which is like all documentaries
and it's gonna be a part of that.
Document those series.
And I think it comes out in December.
Oh wow, that's quick.
Right, but I don't think mine's done.
I think they've done, they've edited like three of them
and they're still editing.
Right.
So, you know, so, I don't know how.
We should have a watch party here.
We could watch.
That's awesome.
Listen, this one, this.
So, the two male doctors were pretty cool, right?
The female doctor, the psychiatrist,
like she didn't like me.
Why?
She immediately started, you know,
I got this whole Nancy Grace feel, you know,
where she hated me before as I walked in the room.
Like, and she just had this, I could just tell,
she just disdained for me.
And as we talked and I realized,
I'm trying to be nice and funny and joke around
and, you know, be, you know, be charismatic
or whatever, charming and I'm working,
trying to work on it.
You're superficially charming?
Absolutely.
Superficially charming?
Yes.
It's not working on her.
No.
She's not having it.
And then at one point.
Hey, can you hit the AC over there?
Yeah, I'm dying in here.
You know how to do it?
You've never done it.
What happens is, at one point she starts in with,
as she's asking questions, she suddenly says,
so you involved quite a few, you know,
single mothers in your crime and I went.
She said that?
Yeah, and I went.
She's a single mom.
No, no, she's not.
No.
But she just, like everything she was asking was normal.
Yeah.
And then that.
And then suddenly, boom.
So anyway, she says something about mothers or women
or single and I went, what?
And she goes, well, I understand you involved several,
several females in your crime.
And I went, well, no, I said I involved,
there were people involved in my crime.
I said a few of them happened to be single mothers.
But I said, but I didn't involve them like, you know.
Like pick them out.
Yeah.
And I was like, she's like, well, you were dating them, right?
I was like, well, I dated a few women,
but most women in their 30s, I go in the US,
you're 30 years old and you're single,
you probably have a kid.
And she goes, not all of them have a kid.
I said, yeah, I understand not all of them have a kid.
But 80 or 90% of them have kids.
And she went, she said, well, that seems like a high statistic.
I figure what, you know, I was just like,
where are we going?
She's kind of argumentative.
And I was like, okay, well, so,
I said, listen, let me explain something.
I said, she's like, why would they want to be involved
in your crime?
I said, because I was making money and I was dating them.
I go, and I'm not running a charity here.
I'm not just giving you money.
And they start saying, hey, can I do something?
Can I get involved?
And so if I happen to say, well, I mean,
you could do this or you could do this
and we would share in the profit
or you'd make 50,000 or 100,000 or whatever,
but you got to do this and this and this.
Because otherwise I said, I don't need them.
So I said, I'm not going and saying, hey, I'm dating you.
Here's 50 grand.
If you're saying I want to make some money.
And I say, okay, well, here's what I'm doing.
You can do this.
And they say, absolutely, I want to do that.
Then that's great.
I said, now, you're making it seem like I targeted them.
I said, which I absolutely did not.
And she's like, well, she basically starts
making it sound like that's what it is.
Or so I was like, that's not what it is.
I don't know where you're getting this.
These women came up with this whole scheme
to get a lesser sentence.
And I explained how that whole thing kind of took off.
And I said, but you know what?
I said, you know what?
I said, listen, just to wrap this up real quick.
I go, if that's what I said that,
if you want to wrap this line of questioning up real quick,
I said, absolutely, I targeted single mothers.
I forced them to help me with their crimes.
I sent them all to prison.
I said, I left them with nothing.
I said, is that what you want?
Cause I said, that's what you want.
That's what you want.
I'm good.
So it was something along those lines
where I just snapped and she was like, well, I'm just,
and then we went on.
It was just like, like, I'm, you know, oh,
and this is the, and I even, I think I even said this.
I said, you know what the worst thing
about this whole line of questioning is?
I said, really?
You really went that far to say that to her?
Well, because, yeah, because.
She was a cynic.
Well, here's the, the issue is, look,
I'm accused, you're accusing me of taking part
in the Kennedy assassination.
And then if I say, what are you talking about?
Like I wasn't, I didn't help kill John F. Kennedy.
What are you talking about?
That's ridiculous.
Like, I, you know what they, then they say,
oh, you're unwilling to take responsibility?
Is it?
Yes.
Just like I'm unwilling to take responsibility
for the bombing of Pearl Harbor or the, you know,
the invasion of, you know, Iraq or, you know, whatever,
all these other things that I had nothing to do with.
Like, so you, it's hard to say that's not true without,
then they just spin it and you, then you look like,
oh, you're done.
And I said, so I said, look, I said,
I'm willing to own up to everything I've ever done.
I said, and if I did that,
I said, I'd be laughing about it with you.
I'd say, yep, that's what I did.
Ha, fuck them.
I said, but I didn't.
I said, so I'm not willing to live under that yoke.
And that was it.
And she went, well, and then she kept going.
That chick hated my guts.
Like, I know she just disliked me.
And, you know, I tried to be nice to her
and everything was, she just seemed like
she had a little dig every chance.
Was that the interview where you sent me the photo
where you're like in that big room with the cool lighting
where it looks like it's like a psychiatrist's office
or something, very modern.
It's on the sound studio.
Blonde lady, right?
No, redhead.
She was redhead.
Redhead, okay.
Yeah.
I can't wait to see that now.
She was pretty.
You really sold me on that part of it.
She was super pretty.
Like, she was like the worst kind of woman.
She was like pretty and smart.
Oh yeah.
Horrible.
What a horrible combination.
Like, I mean, like, like.
You could never win with that one, bro.
No, you can't.
You can't.
You have to feel horrible for like.
Any guy that dates her because she's also a psychiatrist.
So no matter what you do, she's can spin it and twist it
and tweak it.
And this is like, I can't win an argument with you.
Like the worst thing is to be dating a chick.
The worst thing is to be a dumb guy dating a smart,
you know what I mean?
Or maybe it could be the best thing.
Or a smart guy and she's smarter than you,
which is even worse because you can't even fall back
on being stupid.
Just like you guys were clashing, right?
Horrible, bro.
She's as bad as a psychiatrist at.
You're appointed psychiatrist.
No, the one in Coleman.
Like she's seen a thousand Matt Cox and she was cocky.
And so it's like, there's nothing I could do.
This woman, I walked into her office
and I'm already just like the whole rooms closing in on me.
It was like she knew everything about me.
She'd already taken me and categorized me and said,
okay, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, boom.
You sit down and she's like,
so what if your parents was an alcoholic?
Like, what are you talking about?
How would you know that?
So your mother, was she?
Do you even know these things?
Oh my God.
Like super smart.
Like anything you say, she just twisted this way,
twisted this way.
Of course she was divorced.
Cause that dude finally just said, I give up.
I wonder if the lady in Amsterdam who was interviewing you,
if she was divorced or what, I wonder what.
I don't know.
She was single, was she a single mother?
She wasn't a single mother because I even mentioned she.
Oh, you already said that, yeah.
Yeah, but not just that.
I had said something to her.
When we were talking about dating,
she's like, well, you don't have to date single mothers.
I said the bulk of them are single mothers that I'm telling you.
I'm not trying to dissimilar this.
What am I saying?
Easy for you to say.
I'm not trying to discriminate, thank you.
I'm telling you, I'm losing it.
So, you know, I said, so I said, I mean, what do I care?
I like kids if they have a kid, fine.
So as we're talking, I said, you know, I said,
and let's face it, I said, she goes, well, you could date,
you know, what she started going on and on.
I said, well, let's face it.
I said, someone like you's not going to date me.
She goes, oh no, I wouldn't date you.
I was thinking, well, that, what, you know,
like I walked into that, like that wasn't,
you didn't have to say that.
I was just like, Jesus.
Should have hit you while you were down.
Was that filmed for the show or?
Yeah, the whole thing.
Usually they had me doing all these tests,
like I'm answering.
On camera.
Yeah.
It was all messed up.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
It's crazy the amount of work and the time and the planning
and the production that goes into those shows, man.
Yeah, this thing was nice.
This was a good show.
Like, and they had a budget.
Like everything was top notch.
It's not like you can say, eh, they were chintzy here.
They scrimped here.
No.
Did you hear about the new CBS show they just announced
called The Activist?
No.
What is it?
What the hell is that?
It's a CBS, CBS is, they have,
I guess they've already produced it,
but it's a new show that they're getting ready to release
called The Activist and it's a game show.
It's a competition show for activists.
So for activists for social justice or climate change
and they compete.
It's a game show?
Not a game show.
It's like a competition show.
Kind of like a warrior.
They follow you around for three weeks
and see who will do the most outrageous stuff.
Like the cooking shows where they compete or like a survivor.
How do you compete with that live?
I don't know, we'd have to watch the trailer.
But I could just, you know, I was,
if you think about how long it takes those shows to develop
and they're just now announcing it,
they must have come up with the idea
during the whole George Floyd era riots.
Probably.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
They had some fucking executive meeting.
Some guy saw some dollar signs.
Let's jump on this.
How can we make money on this?
You want to hear a crazy show?
Activism, but people are going to get bored.
So we make it a competition show about activism.
Yeah, that sounds interesting.
I was just listening to Tim Dillon.
He just released a new podcast and he talks about it
for an extensive amount of time.
And he fucking, he goes off on it.
He has the funniest takes on this shit.
Oh my God, it's, I can't even imagine what it's going to be like.
But it seems like it's going to be pretty good.
You know what the funny thing is is like,
every time I'll hear about some show like that,
I'm like, that's, that's never going to last.
And then it runs eight, eight, eight years or something.
Like you remember ER?
Yeah.
Like I remember ER kick was coming out.
And I was like, that show's not going to do well.
Like nobody wants to, like we're talking about emergency room,
like people getting hurt.
Like that's too much stress.
Nobody wants to watch that.
He went like 10 years or something.
It was outrageous.
It was like the tops.
It's like, I can't pick a show.
Yeah.
So I'm sitting here thinking that sounds stupid to me.
It'll probably be on for the next 12 years.
Yeah.
I don't even watch any shows really except for the only really
like cable network shows.
I watched a sport as a sports, you know what I mean?
Like football or basketball.
Yeah, but those aren't really shows.
I don't, yeah.
I don't, I don't watch the only content ever.
Only content I've watched on cable or network is sports.
But other than that, it's just Netflix or like Amazon
documentaries and shit.
I watch a ton of documentaries or I'll watch maybe,
I don't know, I do watch a lot of that.
Like, like definitely watch a lot of World War II stuff.
Really?
Yeah.
I watch World War II stuff.
I like watching that stuff sometimes.
The new ones when they put them in color.
That whole series?
Those are sick.
I've watched that whole series like three times.
Which one?
Those are really cool.
It's they take World War II in color.
Really?
They take all the old black and white footage
and put it in color.
Oh, shit.
And it's pretty early to see.
Is that new?
It's been on for a while.
I mean, it's the same story.
I just started watching this new 9-11 documentary
they just released on 9-11 a couple weeks ago.
I've seen it.
I haven't watched it yet.
There's even one on what's the artist?
Come on with the Afro.
Bob Ross.
I just watched that.
Did you?
Somebody tell me it was good.
It was good.
It was pretty good.
Really?
You should watch it.
It's almost a little like what's the tiger guy?
Tiger King?
Tiger King.
It has a little Joe Exotic spin to it
because these people he gets involved with,
they try to take all his copyrighted name and his work
and shit.
And he leaves it to his son.
And his hair is just a perm.
But it's actually a pretty good show.
You should watch it.
Plus, he's a painter.
You would really like it.
Wasn't he in North Florida?
Yeah, he was in Florida somewhere.
Yeah, I think he was in like around Jacksonville area.
Maybe, yeah.
It was Florida somewhere.
I don't know.
That's wild.
There's like these other painters.
They paint flowers.
He paints landscapes.
They're like the competition.
And they, you know what I mean?
So funny.
Fucking the guy who's selling the books and TV shows,
fucking screws the other guys over.
Tom's doing daffodils now?
Jabbaq, I'm going to start doing boats.
What?
Bob was pretty cool though, man.
He's a super humble, like just super chill guy, all happiness.
It was pretty cool.
He's a weird guy, but cool guy.
He reminds me like almost, who's the infomercial guy?
Billy Mays.
You remind you of Billy Mays?
Billy Mays was not laid back at all.
Yeah, but he was like super nice and happy, friendly marketing
show because there was this other painter in Europe
or something who had the show before Bob.
But he was like crazy.
He was like German and Russian.
So he's only shouting and painting and shit.
Bob's like, I'm going to do a show and be the opposite of this.
I'm going to be the nice guy and fucking all the women
want to watch his shows.
Could you imagine some just methed out Nazi doing art?
That's what this guy was like, bro.
We're going to do a tree.
No, the scrape here.
We're going to take a little tree.
Bob Ross, when did he first come on the scene?
I don't know.
I mean, that was way before my time.
You've got to be in the 70s, right?
Yeah, I was back then.
So like the whole hippies movement, the whole hippie movement.
It was shit.
Maybe just after, or roughly during the same time,
but he didn't seem that hippie-ish to me.
No, he wasn't very hippie-ish.
No?
Not hippie, no, but he was very like down there.
Did he have his own TV network, his own TV show?
No, he had his own show.
His own show, right?
His own show that they put on TV.
Obviously not in network, I didn't mean to say network.
Did he have his own YouTube channel?
Not quite.
That's a good one, you should watch it.
Are you still doing art?
Just watch the video.
You just watched a video on me doing, I did a biggie,
two biggie smalls.
Oh, I wasn't watching it.
You were showing him.
Because you don't care.
Because when I send it to you, when I email,
I texted it to you, you don't watch him.
Dude, I'm so fucking busy.
You think I'm trying to sit and watch a YouTube video?
Stop.
He looks at it and goes, eh.
He goes, oh, Cox, I don't need him.
I'm raising a kid.
I have no time for nothing.
Your wife's raising a kid.
You've got a full-time nanny.
You come home and you, oh, listen,
I have a buddy who literally, his wife makes him
spend an hour with his daughter every day.
One hour, that's it?
And he'll call me and complain.
He's like, listen, bro, he's like, I'm almost done with this.
I got like 15 more minutes and she's like, get off the phone.
He's like, all right, all right, one minute, one minute.
Listen, I got 15 more minutes with this kid.
And, oh, that's sad.
That's fucking sad, man.
He'll call me back in 15 minutes.
He'll be like, it's like an hour.
I mean, she's like four months old.
She can't even hold her head up.
What are we going to do?
What bonding?
She doesn't even know I'm here.
She didn't know who I am.
It's true.
He's like, I mean, can I come back when she's seven?
OK, maybe we have something to talk about.
It's horrible.
And it's horrible, Danny.
When I hear you, I see the look on your face.
Oh, yeah, he hates it.
Yeah, it's horrible.
It's sad.
It is sad.
But it's a majority.
It's a majority of parents, unfortunately.
Yes.
My wife knows.
I mean, I'm not, I'm like, I don't really want to.
But there's a lot of even moms who are just like,
they have children, young toddlers, two-year-olds.
And they're just like, they just want to get away from them.
They're just looking for escape from raising their kids.
They want to have a kid, but they don't want to be a mother.
Exactly.
It's fucking sad.
Well, anyway.
It's the problem.
It's the problem with the world, I guess.
The biggest problem is parenting.
That's what creates all the problems.
Bad parenting creates bad people.
Maybe, sometimes.
Case in point.
Look at you.
He's got a job.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's doing all right.
There's an occasional DUI and arrests and some domestic violence.
Did you have good parents?
I had.
I mean, I'm not going to flag it.
Not great parents.
What?
I'm not getting flagged at the airport.
I had a great mother.
And she just got stuck with this guy, my father.
Did you ever meet your dad?
Yeah.
Yeah, he was there the whole time I was growing up.
Oh, was he?
Yeah.
It's just, you know how?
He wasn't that great of a guy.
There are people that will tell you he was a phenomenal person.
He was an amazing person.
And then there's his family.
It's just like growing up.
He's an alcoholic.
And there are screaming matches and alcoholic binges
and throwing bottles and calling your kids' names.
And you know what I'm saying?
Like my mom, she's got four kids.
Like what's she going to leave?
She can't leave.
How's she going to support four kids?
And he was just belligerent.
And he was just, you know, he was an asshole.
But you talk to any of the people that
worked with him, and they'll tell you he's amazing.
He was amazing.
What did he do for a living?
He was a state farm manager.
So he would hire you to become a state farm agent.
And you're showing up driving a 10-year-old Volkswagen
Beetle that's rusted out.
And two years later, you're living in a $300,000
or $400,000 house driving a $90,000 Mercedes
and going on, you know, a month's vacation every year
and just kicking ass.
Where is your set?
What do you mean, state farm?
It's here.
So, and so they were like, you know, those?
In Tampa?
They're everywhere.
No.
Yes, he lived in Tampa.
Yeah, I grew up in Tampa.
So, but I mean, and he had like 25 agents.
And they all, look, his agents were like always,
they had this thing called like the Millionaire Club.
Like they were always in the top,
at the top of the whole country.
Like they're always winning the trip.
So they'll tell you he changed my life.
He was amazing.
He was an amazing salesperson, amazing motivator,
amazing this, amazing, and he was.
But, you know.
He was like the Belfort insurance.
Not when he came home.
Right, but when he came home, you know,
it was a different story.
Or he was great and he was great for a year
and then he'd go on a three week drunk,
you know, drinking binge.
Listen, he got so bad, state farm,
stuck him in multiple rehabs.
Had our whole family go to like Al-Anon,
you know what Al-Anon is?
So you have AA.
And then for the families of people in AA,
you have Al-Anon.
So our whole family, it's like now my dad's got 45 days
in this, you know, whatever, this rehab.
And now somehow or another,
I just got sentenced to 45 days
where I gotta come twice a week
and hold hands with all these people
and talk about how horrible their,
you know, their alcoholic parent is.
What the fuck?
How did I get stuck with this?
He's got the problem.
Like I don't have a problem.
But yeah, and that's just, you know,
that's the whole thing.
It's like you can be amazing in one aspect of your life
and just a complete shit in another.
Is your dad still alive?
No, dad would not have been in prison.
Dad would not have been in prison.
Did you ever rip off state farm out of spite?
No, no.
You think about it?
No, I'm not sure how I would have done that.
I mean, actually I'm sure how I could have done it.
Well, that's fine.
I mean, it's a sad thing,
but the fact of the matter is some of the most successful
and some of the most creative people
are have drug and alcohol problems
or have addictive personalities
or have vices that eventually send them down.
The spiral, the dark spiral.
Right.
So, you know, it's hard.
A lot of people can't balance that.
A lot of people can't balance having a successful career
and being really good at one thing
and balance another aspect of their life,
balance their family life and their professional life.
I have no place, you gotta give somewhere.
And in his case, it was, you know, his family.
And it's funny growing up like, you know.
Some of the best people I've ever met
have been alcoholics and drug addicts.
Oh, without a doubt.
You know, I agree.
I mean, I know a bunch of guys that are in AA,
and you know, I know a bunch of guys that have drug problems
that I think are great, great people.
I was just thinking like, I remember growing up,
like my parents would get into fights
and they would threaten, my mom would threaten to leave,
my dad and they'd get into arguments
and there was gonna be a divorce and this and that.
And like, you know, and like my brothers and sisters
were like, no, let's, you know, don't get a divorce.
Like, you know, this and this, it'll be an issue
and this and this.
And I was like the only one out of them was like, let's go.
I'm done with this dude.
Like, what is with you guys?
Really?
Oh yeah, I was like, remember one time my dad brought us,
drove up, my mom was like, gonna leave.
Like, I'm leaving, I'm taking the kids.
And he drove us into like the projects,
like a really, really rundown area
where the houses were just crap.
And there's like houses like,
or there's like cars on concrete blocks.
I mean, there's trash in the street.
Like it's a rough looking area.
And we're driving through my dad goes,
if your mother leaves me,
we can afford two houses like this.
This is the kind of neighborhood you'll be growing up in.
I'm terrified.
Like we're like, this is-
Wow, he's selling it.
Oh, he's really, I mean, and he goes,
you'll have to, you'll all have to make the decision.
Now remember my mom said,
oh, George, don't say that, don't tell them that.
And he said, your mother will have,
you will all have to make the decision
on who you wanna live with.
And I, before he, who you wanna live with.
And I said, mom, I'm like eight years old,
nine years old.
And I'm like, mom, I wanna live with mom, mom.
Like the look on his-
I'll take mom.
The look on his face was like, Jesus.
The words were still lingering in the air.
Like it was like, yeah, I'm good.
Wow.
Yeah.
Wow, so never had a good relationship with him, huh?
No, no.
He died, so he died, I think, 2014.
And my mom died last month.
Oh, yeah, I didn't know that.
Yeah.
Oh man, I'm sorry to hear that, man.
I've been wanting to do, like on my channel,
I wanna do a video because people leave,
do you ever see the videos where I mimic my mom's voice?
Where I do the whole, you know.
Yeah, I've heard you do it on here.
Oh, that's you.
You've done it on here, yeah.
You've called your mom on this podcast.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, we've had her on the phone a couple times.
So sweet.
Rest in peace.
Yeah.
It's Cox.
So I wanna do a video on my thing
because I've got guys leaving comments
in the comment section saying, bro,
you gotta do another video on your mom.
And then people will leave comments on the mom videos.
Like new subscribers will go back
and start watching all my stuff.
And then when they get the mom videos,
like, bro, your mom's a gangster, bro,
your mom's awesome, like you gotta do.
And it's like, and that's been going on
for over a month now, month and a half now.
And I'm sitting there thinking, I need to do a video,
but like for a month, like I couldn't even talk about it.
Yeah.
I tear up, I was just, I get upset.
And, but, you know, honestly, like I got out of prison,
like I was desperate to try, you know,
I wanted to get out of prison because, you know,
my mom's coming to see me every two weeks.
Like, and she's old, she'd had a couple of strokes.
Like I want to get out.
I want to at least get out and have her see me free.
Does that make sense?
Like, I don't want her to die thinking I'm in prison.
Like I want to be able to get out and see that,
where she sees, hey, he's doing the right thing.
So, you know, I'm going to see her three days a week,
in the morning, I had breakfast with her three,
three mornings a week,
and then I would have dinner with her once a week.
Wow.
So I go get her like, you know, Olive Garden.
You're like the picture, you're like the picture perfect son.
No, honestly, my sister,
like my sister would see her every day,
sometimes twice a day.
My sister handled all, that's what,
and like anytime, anything.
That's a lot.
Oh, bro, it's, yeah, she, my sister.
Still, breakfast three times a week, that's a lot, bro.
I mean, yeah, but that's-
You're a great son.
But stop, we, that's also the reason I didn't get,
like people were like, oh, why don't you, you know,
why don't you get a job doing that?
Really, because if I work at FedEx,
I can't see my mother three days a week.
I can't have dinner, like, I can't say, hey, look,
my mom, she would call me in the middle of the day.
You know, it's one o'clock in the morning,
or one o'clock in the day, and you answer the phone,
hey, mom, she would FaceTime me.
Oh, you know, and, you know, and I'd be like,
I'm painting, mom, what are you painting?
You know, and I'd show her.
Yeah.
So, you know, that kind of stuff, like,
so, you know, my sister was, you know, the top notch, like,
but, you know, I was trying to be what I could be, but-
Do you think that's why you're such a good son,
because your sister was setting such a high bar?
People say that, bro.
I was a shit of a fucking son.
So, you know, because I got out,
and I went to go see my mother
after she came to see me in prison every two weeks.
Right.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, every two weeks, she saw me for 12 years,
and so I got out, and I'd go see her-
She would drive to Coleman?
Until she had the stroke, and then when she had the stroke,
she would make my brother take her,
or she would make one of her nurses take her.
Oh, she was a fucking gangster.
Wow.
She wasn't fucking around.
That's badass.
And if somebody couldn't do it,
she said, well, then I'll pay somebody to bring me.
We're going.
Well, mom, you're tired, you had the stroke,
you don't do the, well, then I'll sleep in the car.
And they said, you know,
and we have to wait in that area.
And, you know, and they said, well, then,
I'm already sitting down in my chair.
I'll wait.
Well, you know, and then what if this,
what if that, well, you know,
what if they won't let you bring your chair in?
Remember that one time,
they wouldn't let you bring your chair in?
Right, and I use their chair.
Yeah, yeah.
And she's just like-
How old was she?
Was she when she passed?
91.
91, wow.
Right.
You know, so I would go there and we would go for,
well, we'd eat, she would eat and I'd drink coffee
and we'd eat breakfast, whatever.
I told you that.
She saw the commercial.
Remember, I said she saw the commercial.
Yes, the life vlog.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that was hilarious.
So then I would walk her around.
So I remember that it was on a,
was it a Monday?
No, it was a Friday.
So on that Friday, I went there
and we walked around the whole compound, right?
When I say walked around, I pushed her in the chair
and her nurse would come with me.
Her nurse was named Celine, super sweet.
She loves Celine.
So we would walk around the whole compound
and I remember we walked around once
and then for some reason I went,
let's do another lap.
And like I'd never do another lap.
Like it's hot.
I'm ready to go and she's hot.
So we go around another lap and then we go back
and we get her out of the chair
and she sits down on her bed.
And as soon as she sat down,
she went kind of rocked a little bit.
And Celine goes, are you dizzy?
Miss Cox, are you dizzy?
You know, she goes, I think she's dizzy.
And I went, no, I said, mom, are you dizzy?
And she looked up at me and her face slumped
and her eyes shifted to the side and she just leaned into me.
And I was like, she had a massive stroke.
So we laid her down real quick, took her vital signs.
Bro, heart like a bull, like just boom, boom, boom,
but just fine, heart's fine, everything's good.
So we call my sister, what do we do?
You want us to call 911?
So we call 911, they come and get her.
She's in the hospital within 15, 20 minutes.
Hospitals right down the street.
So bring her to the hospital,
they say we can give her a drug.
Maybe it breaks it up, they give her the drug,
it doesn't work.
Now what do you do?
They're like, we can put her in the,
we can put her upstairs, we can make her comfortable,
we can do this.
No, no, no, no, she's not like,
we can give her a feeding to, like at this point,
she can barely communicate, she can, she can't swallow.
So, you know, she had a, I forget what they call it,
but there's a form where it says,
like you do not resuscitate,
you do not do anything that will continue my life
if I can't do these things.
And so if I can't feed myself and do certain things
that you don't do any, no procedures
that will extend my life.
So that's a feeding tube that's like,
there's all these things and they're like,
well, we can put her upstairs in the ICU.
And we're like, no, no, no, no, she has 24 hour care.
We'll bring her home.
And they were like, we can bring her to hospice
and we're like, she has 24 hour care.
Like she loves her nurses, she had a great nurse team.
So they bring her back and hospice comes in
and they just monitor her.
Does it make sense?
Like they're not there.
They come in once a day, they call a couple of times a day
and they come in and hospice is amazing.
Like if you've never been through it,
like some people will tell you, oh, that's horrible to listen.
I don't know anybody's had a bad experience with hospice.
Like they're awesome.
So they come in, what's going on?
They talk to her or they try and talk to her.
She can't talk, obviously.
They basically give her pain medication,
but she can't eat, she can't feed herself.
So basically you're waiting there.
You're changing her, you know,
you're just waiting with her and you're talking to her
and they just, they give her pain medication.
And so after a few days, she kind of slipped into,
you know, like not a coma, but she just was sleeping.
You could wake her up, but even then it's like,
she's woken up and she can barely,
she could, you know, maybe just pump your hand or something.
And so then like the last three days,
like I was there like the whole time for literally like that.
You know, so it was like a week.
So it was actually one, exactly one week
because it was the following Thursday.
So the following Thursday, and I was there,
like I think I left, other than going home
to go sleep and come back, I left one time
to do a Zoom call and came back.
And so it was me, my sister, my brother,
and for a week, like her family came in, like this is it.
Keep in mind too, she's been in hospice before
and after two weeks, she just got better.
She'd had a massive stroke.
I mean, listen, she's a Viking.
Like she's a gangster, bro.
Like suddenly she just one day she's sitting up
and saying, I want to play bridge.
What's going on?
Why am I not at home?
And you're like, the hell's going on?
Like we're playing in the funeral.
What are you doing?
And she's like, I want to be in my apartment.
I don't want to be here.
You know, you're like, what's going on?
So I remember my brother-in-law, he's funny.
He goes, look, they have hospice come in,
they give us all a big talk.
You know, we're all in my ex-wife's there.
She's a fucking mess.
Crying, she loves my mom crying.
Like my sister, everybody's upset
and everything, we're sitting there.
And my brother-in-law says, can I say something?
He said, I just want everybody here to know
there is a good chance, a week from now,
she's feeding the fishes out in the pond
and askin' to be taken for a walk.
He was, I'm just saying, she's a Viking.
We all know that.
Bro, we just burst out laughing.
It was so, like it was so, boom, he's like, so,
I know you're upset, this doesn't necessarily mean
what we think, we've been through this before.
Well, they had, I wasn't there.
So, yeah, so I was there all the whole time,
held her hand and finally, you know, her breath gets,
you know what I'm saying, she starts turning blue.
You know, her breaths get deeper
or further and further apart to the point where, I mean,
like she stops for like a minute.
And then you think, oh my gosh, she's not breathing.
Like it's been a minute and all of a sudden she goes,
takes a deep breath and then stops again.
Man, that's crazy.
Bro, it got to a point where it was like,
it got to a point where it was like a minute,
minute and a half where you're like,
like you know it's coming.
I remember I walked outside, I was outside,
I said to my sister, she was on the phone, I go,
Helen, you gotta come in, come in.
We walked back in, sat down, she took her last breath.
I grabbed her hand, took her last breath,
minute and a half later, maybe two, three minutes later,
be honest, her nurse, Celine goes up,
listens to her chest, bursts into tears,
runs out of the room and she just never breathed again.
Wow.
But here's the thing, like I was upset about it,
but it was the best, look, like my mom said this,
you know, life's dangerous, nobody gets out alive.
Like you're gonna die.
In the game of life, 91 died surrounded by her family.
Yeah.
I mean, she fucking won, bro.
Yeah.
Like it doesn't get better than that.
And of all the possible scenarios,
that's the best you can hope for.
Yeah, absolutely.
So yeah, that was it.
Really thought I was gonna be able to get through this.
I've told this story a few times.
I think I've told it once without tearing up.
But so yeah, that was it.
So it was, you know, a week later,
we had the celebration of life or whatever
because she was in an urn,
so it's not like a thing, you know, it's a view of the body.
And then like a week later,
she was, we buried her with my dad
in Florida National Cemetery or something.
My dad was in the Korean War.
So they put her urn with his urn there.
Wow.
And that was it.
Wow.
So yeah.
So I got to get out of prison.
I got to be with her for two years.
That's possible.
That's possible scenario.
Right, right.
Most mothers probably don't get to experience
that much time with their kids,
especially towards the end of their life.
Listen, and I was such a shit as a son,
if I hadn't gone to prison,
I never would have spent that much time with her.
Because I wouldn't have felt obligated
and I had a completely different frame of mind
where I'd have been like, well, I'm living my life, man.
I'm living, it's like, well, then you go to prison.
And you get your priorities straight
and you realize like every two weeks, bro.
Like I think she missed maybe two or three weeks
when she had, I mean, when she had the stroke.
So like it was like a month and a half.
Like so you missed a few weeks
and then it was like, boom, I'm coming.
On my way.
Wow.
You're in a wheelchair.
I've seen people in wheelchairs, they let them in.
That's awesome.
She's a badass.
That's crazy, man.
Yeah.
I wonder what it must be like for to see your son
or your child or whoever it is,
go to prison for that long, for that long.
What it must be like.
You know what I mean?
Because I'm sure, you know.
Oh yeah, she's a day.
It's gotta be brutal.
Especially when it's your own kid,
you'd be like, oh, what did I do?
You know what I mean?
There's so much like reflection that you must do.
But I mean, honestly, like, you know,
you know how they, it's the whole nature versus nurture.
Like, you know, but to be honest,
like it's, in my opinion, I've heard other,
I've heard doctors and, you know, geneticists and say,
it's really, you'd be shocked how much nature it really is.
You know what I'm saying?
Like it's a lot of nature.
Like it's more nature than it's not 50, 50.
It's like 80, 20.
Like you could be the perfect parent to this child
and he still is just a psychopath.
Just out of the box.
Yeah.
Nothing you could probably do.
That is crazy, isn't it?
It's also crazy how some kids, like young kids come out.
Like, you know, people have two kids
and one will be like completely calm, you know,
and relaxed.
The next one will be completely fucking
bouncing off the wall psychopath.
Well, you know, they have straight out of the box.
They have all those twin studies
where they've got like twins or triplets
that were all separated and moved around the country.
And then they find them and they're, you know,
there's like three women and all of them are nurses.
And like one of them was raised, you know,
in a family of like doctors, you know,
one of them was raised basically like in a trailer park
where their whole family was drug addicts
and they were in and out of prison, you know.
And one of them was like, they're all nurses.
Like how did you, all of them managed to get through school
and become nurses?
Like, you know what I'm saying?
Like there's all these, right.
There's these guys that like, boom,
these two male twins separated.
One was raised in foster care.
The other one was raised with parents that were millionaires.
They both end up owning businesses that are similar
and they're doing basically at the same level.
They have, or married, they have a couple kids.
Like they both teach, you know, little league.
It's like, that's insane.
Like there's all these studies like that.
It's in you.
Right.
That is weird.
It is, it is, I think that's super odd, you know.
It's like when I first had my dog as a puppy,
we used to take it to like this doggie day care during the day.
And it's an Australian shepherd, a sheep herding dog.
And even it never like herded sheep before, you know.
But we took it there and we see, you know,
it's got all the other dog, all the other cameras.
What happened?
His camera died.
Sorry.
Suddenly it's got all the other dogs are in a corner.
He's running around touching them.
Yeah. So they call my mom and they say,
you got to come pick them up.
He can't come here anymore.
They said, we put him with the small dogs.
He's cornered them all and herds them in a circle.
We put him with the big dogs.
He does the same shit and nobody wants to hang out.
Yeah, but when my little teacup Yorkie comes around,
the Yorkie herds the sheep dog all around the pool.
That's like a fly buzzing on a cow shit, bro.
My friend Stacy's dog does the same thing.
He's constantly nudging me, trying to much.
Stop it!
Constantly trying to herd me into it.
It's just in you.
Yeah, it's in some people and dogs, animals, everything.
It's so funny.
That is weird, isn't it?
What are your brothers and sisters doing?
I was thinking, this better go somewhere.
You started, I thought.
But OK.
Yeah, it's just what it made me think of.
What are your brothers and sisters doing?
I mean, my brother works, like he's a manager
at like a recreation center.
My sister is a, she managed my brother-in-law's law firm
and raised three boys.
My brother has four girls.
So no more no con artistry?
No, they're all adopted.
Everybody, all three of my siblings were adopted.
You don't have any biological brothers and sisters?
No, all three of them were adopted.
My mother went in for a hysterectomy at the age of 40.
The doctor opened her up, her ovaries were spongy,
and he was like, did we give her a pregnancy test?
And they were like, no, she can't have kids.
And they were like, he's like, give her a pregnancy test
because her ovaries are spongy.
Like they went and they test it, came back,
boom, she's pregnant, so we're up.
Stitch her up, she woke up.
My dad's there and she said, how'd the surgery go?
And he said, you're pregnant.
She said, I came in for a hysterectomy.
What are you talking about?
And then came Matt Cox, a miracle baby.
Weird, huh?
Like she had been told she was barren.
But she was 40?
Yeah. That's late, right?
Keep them up.
Yeah, well she'd been trying to have kids
since they got married in their early 20s.
They ended up adopting three kids.
Before they had you.
Right, and then they were like, well,
I wasn't even like, she can't get pregnant, period.
So that's wild.
That is weird.
That is a crazy story.
I wonder if you're somehow related to Elizabeth Holmes.
I don't know.
Is that the segue?
You like that segue?
It was forced, but it was good.
Maybe Elizabeth.
I was wondering where that was going.
That could have went anywhere.
Maybe we were separated.
You and Elizabeth were separated at birth.
You guys are only living alike though,
so it's not possible.
You know what's funny though is,
like you were telling me about,
because this whole time she's supposed
to have been going to trial.
It's been years, right?
How many has it been?
A couple of years?
Yeah, it's been two, three years.
I don't know, but I think it's close to five years.
Five years?
Yeah.
And now she's finally going, I mean,
and I remember I told you she was trying to say,
like she was trying to do like,
wasn't that she was like a narcissist or something?
She was trying to blame it on some kind
of psychological problem, and they were like,
it's like the court's not having that.
You can't persist.
Well, I heard that she had some sort of like me too defense
that she was being sexually manipulated by Sunny,
her partner.
But that's what you said.
That's what you said.
That's her new defense.
Her new defense, right?
But you watched the documentaries on her, right?
Like there's so many-
I listened to the podcast.
There was like a podcast.
Oh yeah, I listened to three documentaries.
Some of them were short.
Some are like 15 minutes.
And then there's one that's like 45 minutes or so.
Like it's so over the top.
Like there are so many interviews with people
that work for her where she's coming to them
and telling them, you're gonna do this
or you're gonna say, or stop putting those in.
Or any of these that are negative,
we send them off and retest them.
Obviously like she's running this whole scam.
So I mean, if anybody doesn't know about the scam
is that she went to what Berkeley?
For like one-
I don't remember.
For like a year or something or two semesters
I guess two semesters kind of is a year.
So for like a year, she went to like Berkeley
and dropped out because she was going to come up
what she wanted to come up with.
First it started off as a patch
that would constantly give you medication
based on your blood.
Like it would constantly see like,
how much, let's say insulin do you need
and constantly monitor and that sort of thing.
And then it turned into, or any type of medication really.
And then it turned into she wanted to come up
with a machine that you, with just a pinprick of blood
it would do like 140 tests.
Right.
And it was small and compact.
You could do it and it would be in your local Walgreens
and you wouldn't need all these expensive tests.
And so it would tell you what kind of cancer you had
or if you had, you know, smallpox or whatever.
So, and so she started this company called-
Theranos. Theranos.
And she immediately, like she got like a million dollars
from like a neighbor or something.
Then she got another investor and then another one.
And then she started doing some advertising
and then she did this.
Next thing you know, she got into like some women's magazine
and next thing you know, she's getting in millions
and millions of dollars.
Right.
And she had met a guy, she'd gone to China I think
and met this guy, Sunny, who was Indian.
Happened to meet him on some kind of a thing.
Met him and now he ended up coming to the United States
and helping her open this company.
Then they started dating.
He's like, what, 20 or 30 years older than her?
Yeah, something like that.
Yeah.
He's already a successful investor or something.
Right. And not in her league.
Like, you know, like to me, I thought she was,
she's super, I think she's super attractive.
So, you know, she's plain, okay.
She's plain, but I think she's, she's not unattractive.
She's not unattractive, no.
So, she's not smoke show.
She's not, look, in comparison to Sunny,
she's a 10.
She's a dime piece compared to Sunny.
Not really.
I've seen uglier dudes in Sunny score
way hotter chicks than her.
Well, he's also, he's also got like $20 million.
He was worth $20 million.
Right, he can do better for $20 million.
For $20 million, you think?
Well, yeah, if you want to just,
basically you just have to have them sign a contract.
I'm just putting you on payroll.
Yeah, of course.
Anyway.
So, you know, so they end up starting this company.
He comes in and he's like a little tyrant.
He was a little tyrant supposedly
and he's threatening people
and they're signing non-disclosure agreements
and they're threatening lawsuits.
And, but they started getting all these big names
on the board.
Because if you can say, hey, Bill Clinton is on the board
and raise money easier.
Right, it's easier.
Like, oh, well, how do I know this is for real?
Well, Bill Clinton thinks it's for real.
He's on our board of directors, right.
Right, and one of the main problems was
a lot of the money they were raising,
they were spending a significant amount of the money
on advertising and not actually making this thing work.
Well, for one thing.
Not actually on the product itself.
They're spending their money getting their name out there
and creating a big name in the media.
But they are still putting money into the problem.
They're still dumping money into it,
but you do understand that like the technology doesn't work.
Like you can't do what she's saying you can do.
Even the machines they finally came up with
out of 140 some odd tests, like it could do like 18 tests.
And even then half of those were inaccurate.
They could do those from, yeah, right,
from one drop of blood, right, one finger prick.
Right, and a lot of those they were still sending off samples.
A lot of them they were taking full blood vials
and sending them off.
Like the whole purpose, what did they get?
Did they get Walgreens for 140 million?
Was that it?
Something like that, something like that.
Oh yeah, they hit Walgreens for a lot.
Here's the thing too, like you're not even telling them
what the technology is.
Like they're like, how does this work and that work?
And they're like, oh, she's like, oh, it's proprietary.
I can't, we can't discuss that.
But we basically, and she'd give the basic,
a very broad, basic explanation
that kind of seems like it works
if you don't really know what you're talking about.
But if there's a biologist there or anybody-
There was even some lady, in the podcast I listen to,
there was even just some lady who lived by herself
on a single income.
And I guess she had like some retirement saved up.
And she invested 100,000 of her own retirement
into the company and lost it all.
Yeah, and that's just left and right.
Like this is, that's what's just happening left and right.
So then eventually it collapses.
Eventually the whole thing collapses.
Like finally it comes down to it.
We can't provide the machines.
We don't have the machines.
They can't do what we've been saying they can do.
We can't get them, even the ones we've come up with.
They're like twice as big as the ones we've been showing you.
They only do like 15 or 18 tests out of 140.
It's just not working.
And so the whole thing starts to collapse.
And then while there's an investigation,
there's, I forget who the big politician was.
I can't get past, I mean,
you can't get past the fucking fake ass turtleneck
and the voice.
That weird voice that you-
She starts mimicking.
Talking like a man.
If she was mimicking, they said she-
So she's trying to mimic Steve Jobs with the turtleneck.
With the turtleneck.
And Zuckerberg with the voice.
She kind of looks like Zuckerberg.
She's like the BDIs.
She does that.
And every once in a while she would slip.
Like they have her on recordings where she slips for a second.
And then she comes right back into it.
I wonder if she's going to change that for the trial.
Because you would think she'd be more likable and innocent
being like a girl, more feminine, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And not trying to be like, hey guys, I'm innocent.
It's just, it was just-
She's taking us to trial.
Oh, they're picking the jury right now.
Oh yeah.
She's done.
Like I'll bet you they went to her
and they offered her a plea of-
That's your cue, Ryan.
What?
Yeah, he's got a fix.
You can fix the camera.
What was I going to say?
Oh yeah.
I'll bet you-
I was going to say that's the wrong one.
Yeah, bro, there's better pictures.
So they're picking-
Help her out.
This is the Wall Street Journal article.
Elizabeth Holmes, Theranos Trial,
and pictures inside of the courtroom saga.
So they're picking the jury and I heard
that they're having a lot of trouble
whittling down the jury because they're asking them,
okay, what do you know?
Do you know anything about Elizabeth Holmes?
And a lot of them know about her story.
They're like, oh yeah, I know she wears turtlenecks
and changes her voice.
Okay, you're disqualified.
Right.
You know what I mean?
They want to find an unbiased jury
and they're having trouble doing that.
Yeah, well that's every big case.
Everybody knows her story.
Well, I mean, look, you understand,
they probably went to her and offered her 20 years.
That's probably what happened.
They probably came to her and said, look.
She's not gonna do any time.
Male, huh?
I don't think she's-
In her mind.
In her mind.
And her husband, you know who the guy-
She's going to prison.
She just had a baby.
How much did she get?
I think she gets 30 to 40 years.
Really?
It's a ton of, I mean,
these are people's retirement funds.
These are people, she's been lying.
She lied for years.
Basically, like a maid off.
She's threatened, worse than maid off.
She's threatening people.
Worse than maid off?
People are leaving.
People are saying, this is what's happening.
You're lying about this.
These tests, and she's telling them,
we're gonna sue you.
We're gonna, like, I mean,
one of the guys committed suicide.
Oh yeah, I remember that.
One guy that has to do a deposition,
she's pressuring him to not say what he has to,
if he's being honest, I have to explain
that you're fudging all of these numbers.
Like, and so what happens is they put
so much pressure on him.
He's so afraid to testify, doesn't wanna lie.
He goes home and kills himself.
Is it older?
Oh, I think they were gonna fire him, too.
I think he had been fired.
They were going to fire him,
and he was saying, like, if I tell the truth,
she's gonna ruin my life.
And he's just commit suicide.
So.
Yeah, he was a lot older.
Right.
I remember his wife was,
I remember that in the podcast, that was fucked up.
I mean, it's like, this chick has been
blatantly forging documents, forging test results,
threatening anybody who dares to try and expose her.
And then they probably went to her and said,
look, we'll give you a 20-year deal.
Like, that's a gift.
But to her, in her position,
where she's living in a multi-million dollar house,
she's.
She's living in a 124-million dollar house.
Mm, nice.
The guy she's with now,
he's like an heir to some big hotel empire.
And they just had a baby.
So, I mean, look, she's setting herself up for like.
She's setting herself up.
You think the baby was only for the fence?
Oh, absolutely.
She's that bad of a sociopath.
Absolutely.
I mean, listen, they probably offered her 20 years.
And in her mind, she's thinking, I can't do 20 years.
Now, if she had already been,
if she'd been being held in the Marshalls holdover
for a couple of years,
instead of being let out on bond,
she would have gotten her head right.
Like, in her position, she can't fathom being in prison.
Like, to her, that's hell, and she'll never survive it.
But if she'd actually been held for a year or so,
she'd realize, I can do this.
Like, right now, her expectations of life are so high.
She can't imagine it.
But if she had got him knocked down,
like, look, she'll be suicidal for a year or so in prison.
But after a couple of years,
she'll start to realize her expectations
of life will come down.
She'll start to appreciate a cup of coffee.
Yeah.
Bro, you don't think all of the wealthy people
that she's connected with,
all of the lobbyists and politicians,
she probably knows,
you don't think there's any way.
That she ripped off?
Nobody's coming to her defense.
There's still people, there's not still people.
There's got to still be people on her side,
especially with her husband.
Anybody she knew on.
With her husband, how wealthy he is.
Yeah, they got money.
They got a lot of fucking money, Matt.
There's got to be a way
so that she'd slip through this.
Oh, yeah, this is a possibility.
No way.
We need to come back here after she gets sentenced.
I'm telling you, she's getting a minimum of 20 years.
She goes to trial and loses, she's getting 30.
You get the right lawyers and the right jury,
you can throw some shit and go wrong.
She should plead guilty to 20 years
and take 20 on a wire fraud charge.
You're taking over 30.
I'm saying over 30.
I'm taking the under.
Wow.
I'm saying she does.
No, but if they offer 20 and she gets convicted,
it's definitely 40.
I'm saying under 10.
There's no way.
No way.
How much loss is there?
How much restitution would she?
Go to the next slide, Brian.
What do you think?
You're talking 500 million?
Trial of Elizabeth Holmes,
founder of the blood testing company, Theranos,
who was accused of defrauding patients and investors,
began with opening statement September 8th
at California federal courthouse.
The one time Silicon Valley superstar
has inspired movies, books and podcasts.
How much money?
Next slide.
Okay, this is showing reporters, spectators, keep going.
Oh, it's gotta be hundreds of millions.
It's gotta be half a billion.
37-year-old founder of Theranos
faces charges of wire fraud
and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.
Once known for her black turtlenecks and baritone voice,
she has worn a mask, ignored questions from reporters
and stayed mostly silent in court.
She's also walking around with her mom.
They show her walking into the courtroom,
like holding her mom's hand.
Are those her only charges?
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying, wire fraud's 20 years.
So if she had said,
listen, I'll plead guilty to one kind of wire fraud.
Like if I plead guilty,
typically if you plead guilty,
they will consolidate all your charges.
So I get the max, you can give me the max.
I clearly have made hundreds,
it's been hundreds of millions of dollars were lost.
I'll get the max, it's 20 years.
No, no, in her mind, I'm gonna go to trial
and I'm gonna blame everything on Sonny
and they're gonna, you're fucking nuts.
Nobody's gonna buy the batter.
She's got some crazy lawyers.
That's gonna be a fun trial to watch.
She's in a California court.
Ms. Holmes' mother and constant companion
has firmly held hands with her daughter
while entering court.
A defense attorney described her to the jurors
as a public servant who instilled in her daughter
a desire to change the world for the better.
Oh my God.
She's gonna sell it, man, it's gonna be good.
Did you watch the new cocaine, Calboys?
That's her, that's her, oh no, I heard that was good though.
It's good, you gotta watch it though
cause you gotta see the lawyers,
these cartel guys hire bro and they get off on everything.
We know a lawyer who represents the cartel guys.
This guy reminds me of Bjorn Tuey's ball,
but he's like next level crazy.
We gotta get Bjorn back in on this fucking podcast.
I'm saying one of the cocaine,
one of the Colombian or whatever drug dealers
I thought you interviewed.
The drug pilot?
No.
No.
This was like a Spanish guy.
Oh yeah, George Valdez.
George Valdez.
Yes, yes, I had him.
Yeah, his son, remember his son had interviewed.
He was an accountant, yeah, he was a,
he did the accounting for a bunch of the guys.
Did he?
I thought he was a drug.
You gotta watch the new one.
Oh no, he started out doing the accounting bro
and then he made a lot of fucking money.
Crazy amount of money.
You gotta watch the new one, it's pretty, it's really good.
So Billy Cor, I think George Valdez is in the new one.
Yeah, he is in the new one.
Is he really?
I saw him and I was like, hey, that guy's.
Oh, I gotta watch it, I gotta watch it.
Yeah.
So, and I saw, but I only, after I watched it
for a little bit, like I watched like 10 or 15 minutes
of it, I forget what happened.
Somebody called or something and I knew.
Yeah, but you gotta watch when they started
to go to trial bro, it's so crazy.
They hire like the craziest, most expensive lawyers
and then there's like a whole deal at the end
where like the lawyers got paid by drug money,
like millions of dollars.
So they try to like,
Try to get the money.
The lawyers are like, oh, you're not allowed
to take this money or whatever.
And I think that's actually what one guy ended up
down the road getting popped for.
Finally, was he paid one of his lawyers one time
with a check and he couldn't, they traced it back.
They couldn't prove it or something.
They ended up getting that charge and they hammered him
because they beat the whole Ringo Conspiracy Charge.
They beat everything.
It's fucking sick.
So were there any cops?
Because I was.
Tons of cops.
Cops that were indicted?
Oh yeah, they came out with a, you'll like this part.
The lawyers pre-trial, all of the people
who were testifying, there's like a hundred people,
a list of them, they print it in the jail magazine,
in the New York Times, in the paper with everybody's name,
everybody gets killed.
Every fucking body.
So there was a cop in Coleman.
They do that?
Yeah, in that prison time magazine.
I mean, they're not supposed, they should.
That's just like a murder, basically they put a kill list.
That's what they said.
They said, you put out a kill list.
They said, look, we're looking to talk to these people
to get some information.
We're trying to track these people down.
We're trying to talk to them.
If you can find them, please help us.
Wow.
Well, they got found.
So one of the cops involved in that whole thing,
I was locked up with, he had an amazing story.
And there was a hit man that I actually read.
There was a book called, Making Jack Falcone.
And I, in that book, and a lot of.
Jack Falcone, who was Jack Falcone?
It was a fictitious FBI agent.
Like it wasn't a real person.
Because there was an actual big time cocaine trafficker
down there named Willie Falcone.
That's in this whole documentary is about Willie Falcone.
Is it really?
It's about Sal and Willie.
BB was friends with Willie.
The whole thing's about Willie Falcone.
But this is a different person.
So this was an FBI agent,
pretending to be a guy named Jack Falcone.
And he infiltrates, but in the infiltration,
and when you read the book,
there's a guy who keeps,
there's all these murders happening.
And at one point, one of the guys goes to kill a lawyer.
He, this guy's killing all these lawyers.
Like, so not the FBI agent, but the murderer
who's out there, one of this, one murder.
And he goes in and he kills this lawyer.
He's killed a bunch of lawyers for the drug dealers.
So he kills this one lawyer, him and another guy.
And when they're leaving, the secretary's there.
Like she sees the whole thing.
And the other guy's going, let's kill her.
And the other guy's going, no, no, they argue.
No, no, no, don't kill her, don't kill her.
And it finally comes down to it where the guy's like,
why, he's like, listen, we didn't get paid to kill her.
Do you understand?
We weren't told to kill her, we're not killing her.
And he said, and he tells her, listen,
this was a guy in prison that I knew named Gordo.
He's the one who'd wouldn't kill her.
And he says, and he got 40 years.
And he testified against everybody.
And still ended up with a, got 40 years.
So that's how bad.
He's got like 12 fucking lawyers that were murdered.
He killed.
And then anyway, he ends up telling them, no, no, no.
And he tells her, he says, listen,
when the cops come and this and this, you know,
you've never seen us.
He's like, cause I will come back.
And if I don't come back to kill you,
I'll have someone come and do it.
Like I know who you are.
Like he got her like license or something and then he leaves.
And he said, you know what?
She never says nothing.
She said, I am not talking to you guys.
The guys came in here and killed him.
I couldn't recognize them.
I don't know who they are.
I don't know.
I don't know.
He's like, she never did nothing.
It was like, oh, okay.
Gordo was really actually a very nice guy.
Was he?
And he didn't have a hit on him in the documentary.
That's what I'm saying.
So I'll kill a couple of lawyers and they do,
they do kill somebody.
Somebody sees it and they take their driver's license.
And he goes, yeah.
I mean, I think that's pretty common.
But yeah, you know us, but we know you.
And he takes her license and puts it in his pocket.
I want to say this happened in Miami.
It was either like Miami or maybe it was New York or something.
I, cause the Jack Falcon thing happened in like New York,
but they were talking about how all these guys are connected
and they were murdering all these lawyers and this one guy.
And as I'm reading the book, Jack Falcon,
Gordo's in the unit with me.
He's like, like, you know, as I'm reading,
like somebody saw it and said,
hey, you know Gordo's in that book.
I'm like, what?
And they're like, yeah.
And I walk, I go, is this, you're in the book.
He's like, yeah, yeah.
Page 142.
I'm like, yeah.
That's funny.
He knows the exact page.
Yeah.
Of course.
He's a big shot.
That's funny.
So Elizabeth Holmes, anyways,
we were talking about her.
Yeah, Billy, that's the, that's the rich.
That's her new husband.
Her partner, accompanying her to trial,
the 29 year old hotel heir,
once worked at LinkedIn and Luminar Technologies
and is the father of her infant son named William Evans,
like his dad and grandfather.
How long?
Royalty.
How long?
Is that a plane?
Fucking feds flying in.
We got a fucking airplane flying
like 10 feet above our building right now.
They all know when we're doing the podcast.
How long was she trying to get pregnant by this dude?
Day one.
I mean, she's like every time.
She looked at him and said,
you know what we're doing.
Come in me, come in me.
Every single time.
I wonder if he was just,
do you think he was just clout chasing?
Because you know he could do way better than that.
Listen, he's gotta be getting something out of it.
Listen, he's clout chasing for sure.
She's probably the best girlfriend he's ever had.
Yeah.
She's probably the best chick he's ever,
because think about it.
She's not gonna argue.
She needs you.
Yeah, but even the prisoners,
after the prisoners are there for a long enough time,
they think they run the asylum.
I'm not sure what that means.
I think she's got this guy roped in, whatever it is.
Definitely.
She's got him roped in.
What's his angle?
His angle is she probably thinks,
my poor baby, she was taken advantage of
by that mean Indian Sonny.
She manipulated him.
Like Sonny is like.
So the guy's dad is a San Diego hotel proprietor
who's joined the Theranos founder in court
during jury selection.
He don't, he donned a ball cap
and introduced himself to reporters
as an interested spectator named Hansen.
An interested spectator.
So she's got a lot of rich people around her, Matt.
I can't imagine she still has any money though, right?
Did she still have money?
Yeah, she's got fucking money, yes.
She's got money.
How do you have money after?
Unless you got this guy.
You think they hasn't gone to court yet.
I know, but you would think they would seize everything.
She's got it in bank.
She's got money stashed.
The fans, look, she's got fans.
There's women, blonde hair women wearing black clothing.
That's crazy.
Probably wouldn't be amazing if like half the crowd,
were all women with blonde hair wearing turtlenecks.
So they're all just like fan girls.
These girls are like fan girls.
They're all, she's got like a fan club
and they all have turtlenecks.
They talk like Elizabeth.
We wanna be just like you.
Elizabeth, you're innocent.
We know you're innocent.
She's got it at this point.
She's gotta be like, this is nuts.
Like even I think this is nuts and I'm crazy.
Where's her trial at?
What state?
Oh, it's gotta be California.
It's Northern California.
Oh my God.
In her hometown.
You know her mom has to know she's nuts.
Like this didn't slip up on her.
Like she's already gotta know like she's crazy.
Like she's been lying her whole life.
Like she's-
I've got a feeling her mom's probably
not too far from that too.
No.
I don't know.
Next.
Oh, listen.
That guy looks like a fucking prune.
I read out.
So when I was doing the Marcus Shrinker story.
Yeah.
When I was doing the Marcus Shrinker story,
I had to read, I read all these books on-
Psycho.
He's the pathological liar.
Yes.
So I read all these book on sociopaths,
psychopaths, everything.
And they have all these different examples.
Like there was this one guy who like literally
had gotten a hammer.
This is when he's like seven or eight years old
and the family had gone to some lake house that they had.
And he went down and they could,
he took, got a hammer and he went down by the lake.
And they said, we could hear like.
They said, but it wasn't like,
it was like he's banging into the dirt.
We didn't know what he was.
When we would listen to it for God, she said.
I mean, you know, for a while,
we thought maybe he's nailing something in a tree.
Maybe he's just, he's hitting stuff with a hammer,
but there was nothing down there
that he could do any damage with.
She said, well, finally, like her husband,
she or her husband went down to see, what is it?
And he was smashing frogs with,
and I mean, blowing them apart.
Like, look what we're talking about.
Like an egg, if you smashed like guts and blood.
But she said they were just, he'd been doing it.
Like there were hundreds of them.
And it was just death, like just blood everywhere.
And he was just having a blast.
She said, then later did it with kittens.
Shrinker?
Not shrinker.
You understand, right?
So I read a book.
I read a book about during the,
while I was right.
While you were doing the shrinker thing.
And she was explaining, like,
so the psychiatrist that wrote this book
is explaining just like the psychology and the whole thing.
And it was just horrible.
Like at some point this guy goes and it gets a job,
like graduated college.
Now he's never had real friends.
He's never, she's like, he's all,
like the mother was explaining,
like he's never had a connection with anybody.
He's always used people.
He's always, he would lie and do whatever he had to do
to get what he wanted,
then not own up to anything.
Like that his parents are just like disgusted
and terrified by him.
He goes to college.
I had nothing to do with it.
They were, you know, they knew,
this is our son and we love him, but we don't like him.
And so at one point he gets a job
and he immediately, he gets some job in some corporation,
starts moving up the ladder
basically by just fucking over everybody.
Like everybody hates him.
He very quickly, the CEO of the company,
or the owner of the company,
he finds out he's got a daughter
and he immediately hooks up with the daughter
and they end up getting married.
And his mother actually goes to him and says,
the day of the wedding,
or a few days before the wedding,
she says, she's a wonderful girl.
And he's like, yeah, I know.
And she says, do you really have to do this to her?
Do you have to marry her?
And he says, come on, mom, we both know
she'll never see it coming.
And she said, like, it was like a moment
where they both kind of admitted,
I know that you know what I am and you know that I know.
But they'd never really had that.
And she said, at that moment,
she said, I desperately wanted to go to this girl
and say, he is a sociopath
and he's going to ruin your life.
She's like, but I couldn't, he's my son and I love him.
And she was just trying to tell him,
please spare her whatever you have planned for.
Yeah.
Fucking reading that, I read that book, it was horrible, bro.
Like it was, she, the mother just described this guy
was just a maniac.
So, I mean, so what I'm saying is-
A lot of people like that out there, man.
Right, but that's what I'm saying is like-
Do you think that's what she is?
I'm saying you know that the mother,
like Shrinker's parents, his whole life, he's been lying.
Like they've all known it his whole life.
There have been all of these signs his whole life.
Like you've got a couple of brothers,
you got three boys, two of them are normal,
and you got this psychopath.
Like you know he's doing shit that these two,
these two may, even if they're lunatics,
they're not like this.
This is just nuts.
You know, this mother has got to be like-
She knows.
Oh yeah, like she's fucking disturbed.
What about this new kid, Steven Laundrie?
Is that his name?
Steve Laundrie?
Is that the one with his girlfriend?
The guy who went hiking and his girlfriend disappeared?
Did they find the body?
Yeah, they found her.
They don't know if it's her though.
They haven't confirmed it.
They said it resembles her, but they haven't done the DNA.
How many fucking dead blondes are out in the desert?
Like where'd they find her?
Well, they found a bunch of dead people over there.
They found two other people
that they think he might've killed also.
Yeah, where?
They found two other bodies near an area
like a restaurant or a bar they went to.
I mean, how many cross-country tours
are trips of this guy taking with girlfriend?
Well, the funny thing is-
He does it all the time.
They have a YouTube channel where they travel the world.
Hey.
I didn't know that!
Pull up their YouTube channel, Ryan.
They travel the country.
That's nuts!
They have a YouTube channel.
I saw the videos and I saw the video
with the cops where he'd been scratched
and he's like, yeah, we gotta do a fight.
But I was like, you know,
like they got into an argument and a scratch.
But she was still alive.
Yeah.
Not anymore.
Yeah, you watched the video that I'm getting pulled over?
Yes.
Yeah.
He seemed pretty normal.
She seemed like the psycho.
That's what, when I was watching it, I was like,
yeah, she's crazy, bro.
Like he's trying to downplay it.
Like, yeah, well, she might have.
I know it's, we were both, we were both upset.
But you know what I said, it was like,
I'm like, okay, he's like a good dude.
I mean, right up until he-
The theory is what I heard is she's all distraught
because he might've just killed those other two people.
Were they, I thought, were they were together?
I thought it was just the two of them.
Yeah.
But there's two other dead people.
So what, he said, oh, by the way,
this is where I dumped the body and that caused an accident?
I don't know, maybe she saw it.
They had a pretty, they had a pretty,
their stories were pretty identical
when they got pulled over.
Like she was crying.
She says, I've been working on my blog all morning also.
And then they pulled him out of the van.
And his story was to the T,
almost exactly to what hers was.
So they either, I mean, they had a pretty well-rehearsed story.
Or that's just what happened.
Or that's what actually happened.
And then it later sparked into,
I'm done with this chick, it's time.
Oh, we're at mile marker 32.
What happened?
Getting close to the grave, to the burial.
Yeah.
We gotta choke this chick out.
I mean, you think that like it's like-
He's on the lam now.
He's from Vero Beach, Florida, is where his parents live.
There's a lot of crazy people.
It's literally directly across the state from here.
It's exactly two and a half hours east of here.
And you saw the surfboard.
I surf there all the time, exactly where they live.
You live on Wabasso.
Did you see the search warrant where they were searched?
Yeah, it was today.
They were there for like two hours.
There was a search warrant where they went into the house.
Well, I think the parents led them in.
And they were bringing out box after box.
Or they were bringing boxes,
loading them up and taking them out.
So I think the parents are like-
Cooperating.
Cooperating like, look, you know.
But they're not.
We got a crazy one.
We've known it for a while.
Like he was probably smashing fucking frogs too.
Well, I heard his mom told him to like the night before
he went out and he like packed all his camp and shit up
all his gear and fucking hit the road.
After he came back without her?
I think like after they found the body
or after he knew they were coming.
Well, he's been gone for a week
and they just found the body yesterday.
Where was the body found?
What state?
In Utah, I think.
Utah.
Near Salt Lake City.
The last place they were seen was coming out of a hotel
near Salt Lake City.
This is their YouTube channel.
Where is-
The Matic Static.
And look, they posted this video a month ago.
And it's got 3.5 million views.
It's all from the girl-
So he's banking too.
The girl who died or is missing,
she got like over 600,000 Instagram followers
in the past five days.
Well, I mean, it's not for interaction or what they call it.
And they got 60,000 YouTube subscribers
in the past week too.
Yeah, that's a crazy story.
60,000, 56,000.
So we're looking for our daughter
and he says she's in Utah.
And they said we looked in Utah and he said, did you dig?
Yeah.
Crazy fucking story, bro.
I don't get it.
Like I don't understand.
I just, I'm like, I'll commit crime.
Like I get monetary gain.
I get that, but the desire to murder someone.
It's gotta be baked in.
Like I've hated people.
Like I've been furious with someone.
But I'm not like plotting their death
or I'm not thinking I'm gonna choke you to death.
And there are people that do it once
and then they're like-
That was easy.
This was good stuff.
I gotta get me another one.
I mean, it's like, what are you doing, bro?
How many people have you dated and dropped off in Utah?
You know, there's a psychiatry center in South Florida.
I think, I wanna say Bradenton, Sarasota.
And it's an entire sort of like,
it's like a university for psychiatry
that specializes in psychopath and murderers.
We gotta interview some of those guys.
Well, I have a guy that actually did a book on that place.
A guy who came from there who wrote a book on it.
And he's coming on in like the next couple months.
And basically they dedicate their lives
to studying people who are serial killers
and do commit the most heinous murders.
Crazy.
And yeah, I can't wait to have him on here.
Cause you know, I think that's gotta be big.
You gotta come like that out of the box when you're born.
You know, how can you-
I think those guys.
Well, I think sometimes you're probably just born
but there's also the study that says that typically
you can create like a psychopath or a sociopath.
Like someone can be created with antisocial disorder
if there's some kind of a trauma,
typically it's some kind of a traumatic event
in their childhood will cause that, you know?
And others say that they're just born like that.
Like there's a case for both, you know?
So I think you could probably be, some are created
and some are probably just born like that.
Right.
But yeah, but I'll bet you like that guy,
I'll bet you he'll be either amazingly boring and clinical
or he'll be like have some crazy fucking story.
Like he's gotta have some, like he's met some fucking,
he's met some nuts.
Yeah.
That guy's met some people that is like,
oh, that's nothing, listen to this one guy.
You know, tell you-
Well, yeah, I don't know if he's met a lot of the people
that he's studied.
A lot of them are people that have been already died
or you know, have, you know, like Jack the Ripper
was one of them.
Oh, that's no good.
A bunch of people like that.
But I'm sure there are some that he has interviewed.
Yeah, I would want to, I got to interview these guys.
Yeah.
You gotta have to talk.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a talk.
Oh fuck.
So what did you, so after you took her head off.
Yeah.
I took the skull out on war.
You know, I put her head off.
I put her head on my head and wore it as like a hat
for a little bit.
And then I took the, you know, it's like-
Ted Bundy, Ted Bundy.
Why?
Have you seen the, we've talked about the Ted Bundy
that was a crazy one.
Yeah, that was nuts.
Yeah, he was, and he was got married in jail.
And didn't get the chick pregnant and married.
I think so, yeah.
Boy, he was talking at the end with a country.
Oh yeah.
Women loved him too.
That was crazy.
Oh yeah, he had groupies.
Oh man, it was so crazy.
What are you doing?
Yeah, that was wild.
Oh, Ted.
Ted.
Well, Matt, I think we've hit a wall, brother.
All right.
I'm, what are we doing, two hours?
Is it two hours?
Yeah.
What's coming up next, Matt?
For me?
Mm-hmm.
I mean, you know what, I've hit,
speaking of hitting a wall, I hit a wall.
Like, so I was getting like 2,000 to 3,000 new subscribers
every month on my YouTube channel, right?
In the last month or so, it's dropped down
to like less than a thousand, like 900, eight or 900.
Like, the closer I get to 35,000 subscribers,
the slower, like, I'm like, man, it's like,
I can't break this thing.
I mean, at one point I was getting 3,000 a month
for several months.
And I don't know what happened.
And yet I'm putting out more content than ever.
Are you really?
How often do you put out videos?
Oh, every day, at this, all last week,
we put out a video for six days straight.
It's every day, bro.
And then this week, we're putting out on Sunday.
On Sunday, we're doing Sunday, well, no, we did, sorry.
We did Sunday, we're doing Sunday, Wednesday and Friday.
And then, and actually I think Colby,
Colby's my video editor, he's breaking up
this one video I did with this guy for like two and a half,
or like, it was a little over two hours,
he's breaking that thing up into five.
And I think he's gonna release that every single day.
Oh, so you're doing the Vlad TV thing,
where you do a long podcast and you only release sections.
Right.
I mean, you know, I'm trying to get something to hit.
Like every, you know, look, like I get a ton of people
that like, you know, in the comments,
I don't have a comment section like yours.
I don't know how you, you can't, it is accessible.
You can't look in that, like to feel good about yourself,
you cannot read the comments.
You read my comments?
Every once in a while, like maybe every once in a while.
You want a good laugh, read them.
Oh God, they're horrible, bro.
Like I don't run, you have almost half a million
subscribers, people hate your guys.
Yeah.
They say, I mean.
They really say horrible things, what do they say?
What about you?
Yeah, I haven't read them in a long time.
Bro, you give a couple of good ones.
Oh, I, what do you mean they're, they're,
I mean, obviously, you know, that the,
they're not thrilled with you.
They dislike you the most.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The most.
Like, I've seen some pretty good ones though.
And on the last few podcasts that you did,
there were some pretty positive ones that I, huh?
Yeah.
I remember I sent you a couple screenshots.
Oh, the last time I dug into the comments,
it was pretty positive, but I haven't been in their sense.
A lot of them are with the.
I've been staying away.
The interrupting, the, these guys.
Yeah, but what, really?
Is that going to really like it to me?
I mean, look, I don't, what am I supposed to say?
I don't want to say it.
I mean, they're all, you know, they're stupid.
They're, you know, they, they can't follow a conversation.
True.
They're, you know, I mean, just, it's just, it's on and on.
I mean.
It's all true.
We are stupid.
We can't follow a conversation.
We don't, we're fucking retards.
It, they, they, they go on and on.
I mean, I listen to them and I'm just.
Well, then why are they watching?
What's the internet for you?
They tell it is.
Mine is like completely different.
Like I probably get.
No, they genuinely love you.
For every 20, I do get one guy who's like,
this rat scumbag piece of garbage.
And I'm like, I'm like, well, did you at least subscribe?
Yeah, right.
Please share the video.
Please click.
Scumbag low life.
Yes, I understand.
That's the guy who's already subscribed.
Share the video.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, so, yeah.
So I, I, but for the most part, mine's positive.
And I get a ton of like likes.
There's always like what, I think there's maybe three guys
that as soon as they, oh, Cox just posted dislike.
And then they, that's it.
Now leave a mean comment.
Dislike, there's like two or three guys like that
for every video.
And then there's like 350 or 500 that are like,
like, like, like, like, like, it's like.
As much as the comments are so,
can be such a cesspool and so negative,
I do love the comments because.
They're, they're so slow.
The sum of the insults.
Oh, they're good.
Are hilarious.
Well, once you dive sharp.
The thing about it is, is once you actually dive into it,
it's hard to get out of it.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I could lose an hour.
I could lose an hour.
Oh, easily.
Oh, yeah.
And it's like, it's like the greatest thing
about those comments is it's like a whole separate organism
from the video or the content.
So you have the video, you dive into the comments
and it's like a whole nother world.
It is.
You know what I mean?
It's such a cool thing.
I love it when they argue with each other.
Oh, yeah.
You'll get like 17, 18, 20, 30, 30 different comments
and it's like, nice.
And it's one of the greatest things about YouTube
is that when you see the video, you know,
you get this great fucking addition
of this comment section, you see something like,
oh, I know someone said something funny about this.
You immediately scroll down and you want to see.
And it's like a competition.
It's like a writing competition to see who can come up
with the funniest.
The funniest take, funniest or most clever take
on what just happened in that video.
And then that person gets attention.
They get up, up votes, you know what I mean?
So they get more people go to their channel or whatever.
So it's cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, I didn't know that.
What do you mean, up what?
So comments get up votes.
A comment, you can click like or dislike
or whatever.
So it upvotes it to the top though.
The top comments takes up there.
Oh, okay.
The most popular comment.
Within the comment section.
Exactly.
Oh, I thought you meant going to them.
So then people see, oh, this guy fucking left a comment
with a hundred likes on it.
Let's see what he's got going on.
Right, he's funny.
He's something's good.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
I get that.
I get that.
They're great.
Yeah.
So I fucking love the comments.
I don't know how much they hate me.
I love them.
What else, Matt?
Now he's going to get, he'll have,
he'll have-
He's diving in tonight.
50 comments now saying, we love you, Dan.
Don't listen to cocks.
No, they'll be like, yeah, you're right.
We hate you.
We hate you, you fucking rat.
The rat.
Oh my God.
All right.
So funny.
Parley the plugs, Matt.
What are we going to do?
Subscribe to Matt's YouTube channel.
Nobody's looking.
At this point, you know, 95% have already,
no, I mean, I have a YouTube channel.
Like, subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I need to get over 35,000.
I need to get up to 50,000.
I feel like 50,000 and I can actually start
making some money.
But you know, but yeah, Zach, my buddy,
Zach does the podcast with me.
And yeah, so we do that and we interview.
You ought to interview Josh.
Didn't I send you Josh's?
I interviewed Josh.
Who's he?
Josh is a guy that runs a YouTube channel called-
We'll talk about it after the show.
Oh, okay.
He will.
Anyway, he's got a great crime story.
He's a super cool guy.
Okay.
Perfect.
We'll do it.
I sent you this stuff.
Anything I send you, you don't look at anything I send you.
Yeah, I do, Matt.
You're not the only one.
He does it to everybody.
Well, he's a big shot.
You're a big shot.
You know, he gets it and he's like,
That's not true.
What do these peasants want?
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Please.
Matt, thank you.
Thank you for being on the show.
I appreciate it.
Everyone else appreciates it.
And I stopped and got you Starbucks.
Thank you for the Starbucks.
You got you.
All right.
I'm not a bad guy.
You're a great guy.
I'm not a great guy, but I'm not bad.
All right.
Are we done?
Goodbye, world.
See ya.
See ya.
