Hello world. Today's guest is Jake Fox. Jake is a friend of mine who is an artist and a musician.
He is also an encyclopedia on conspiracy theories and he's a music historian who we had a blast
talking to and hanging out with. On this episode Jake talks about the cryptic hidden messaging
in music from bands like The Beatles, Jimi Hendrix, Nirvana, and Bob Dylan. We also talked about
time-traveling nukes, JFK, and Backwards Matter if any of that fluffs your curiosity.
Towards the end of the show Jake performs some of his new music from his band Catatonic Scripts.
Please enjoy this action-packed episode before YouTube takes it down.
Is that an Egyptian pharaoh tattoo on your arm?
Yeah, I probably shouldn't have done that.
Why shouldn't you have done it?
I don't know man. I never thought about like if I ever go abroad and somebody is like,
why do you have that? Well, what would your answer be?
You're a white man from America. Is that what you're worried about?
I don't know. Sometimes, yeah. I really shouldn't worry about that kind of stuff.
Yeah, that's crazy that you worry about that.
I don't really worry about it. I'm never going to India now. I'm gonna ask here.
What is that?
My idea is I like studying world religion, so like I have Mary back here,
and then Thoth was like the scribe of the Egyptians.
Pull this thing a little bit closer. Talk about closer to it.
So Thoth was like a scribe. He kind of invented language in one way or another,
and they attribute him to Hermes from the Greek period, and I think Mercury? I don't know. I'm
zoning out now, but yeah. Do you like Egyptian history? Egyptian, uh,
what kind of been using like, I don't know, just the idea of symbols.
Yeah, they use a lot of, all humans of every civilization starts off with like symbols,
so it's almost like where we got emojis going as hard as they do now. You know what I mean?
They are kind of like, that's like the modern day, uh,
yeah, hyroglyphics, symbolism and stuff, and I went to art school and study art and all that
kind of stuff. You have an arts degree? Not quite yet. Probably like this close and don't even
realize it. Has that ever happened? Your art's pretty sick though. Yeah, I'm too busy making
more art to get like, to finish school. Plus money, like, uh, yeah, money's fun.
Well, how much, uh, how much time do you spend creating art and with, and music and shit?
Oh, all day, every day. Well, even when I'm working, don't tell my job.
You want to tell them? No one listens to that. They won't listen to this shit.
Yeah, man. I'm always constantly running through ideas. I have like multiple notebooks in my car,
so I'll like stop the car and write something down or wait until I get a red light.
Sometimes I miss whatever I have in my head.
What, explain your sunglasses to people who don't know what that is.
Oh, okay. So this is my band. What is catatonic scripts?
Yeah, this is my band. So now I have catatonic vision.
What does that mean? What is the meaning of catatonic scripts?
I don't know. When you're young and they try to put you on all those psych meds and stuff and
you start reading like the stuff that's on the back of those psych meds and you're like,
whoa, this can cause me to go catatonic. So it's like catatonic prescriptions.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah. They're trying to help my health.
Did you have any kind of... The side effects could be.
Catatonia. Catatonia is the disease.
Did you have early experience with being prescribed medications when you were a kid?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, it all started when I dated a girl that's mom was a psychiatrist or a church.
Which we know she is.
Yeah, but she kind of just instigated that realm of thinking to my family.
Who? Miller? Yeah. Who's Miller's mom?
Well, that's, yeah. And just the medical industry completely is, I don't know.
Yeah, I study a lot of weird stuff.
What medications were you prescribed?
Oh, this is almost...
About 15 years ago.
Yeah, I really, I don't know. At one point in time, I was upset about a lot of things that
went down and I said something that I thought I regretted. So I took myself to a hospital.
I had no intention of like harming myself for anyone else, but they tried to immediately assume
that kind of stuff. You know what I mean? Like the medical industry, even if you call the VA
hospital, which I have to, because I work for a pizza shop and deliver there all the time,
when I'm calling their phone number to call the extension, they're there to remind you,
like, if you're feeling suicidal, hang up and call 911. And I'm like, well, I wasn't.
So you said something about it?
Yeah, and it's even more scary because the VA is on highway 666.
Not only am I terrified of bringing symbols that some people might think I don't understand on
my arms. I'm scared of that highway 666.
You're scared of it.
Isn't that ironic?
Fatal accidents on it, though.
It is so ironic that the VA is on highway 666.
Yeah, I never really thought of that.
I love highway 666.
Hundreds of VA's all over the country, though. You know what I mean?
Oh yeah, we have a song from my other band. So this is the band I'm currently focusing on right
now. I've got atomic scripts, but then I had another side project with a homie named Jet.
Jet, what up?
Called No Room to Talk.
Hey, bump his levels up, just a scotch, because he's kind of quiet.
Just, I don't want to have to fuck with it and post.
All right, go ahead.
Keys 2, yeah.
Yeah, so I have another project called No Room to Talk.
And I was really trying to aim for older garage punk rock sounds like misfits,
but almost like mixing elements of surf rock, not really sounding like surf rock,
but like pulling those tones and like playing them differently.
So we have a song called Highway 666.
Like, have you heard of, I'm sure you have, Bad Brains?
Yeah.
Like that, that kind of surf rock, that shit that you see in like old Lost Movies.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, because we actually recorded that on a Real to Real system with a recording
company local in St. Pete.
Well, I think their studio is in Tampa now, but they're called Yoko Phono.
Cool.
What kind of, what kind of...
So it gives you more of that analog tone, just it feels like you're etching into the
tape when you're recording, whereas digitally it feels different to me.
What do you mean etching?
What does that mean?
I don't know, it's the only way I can explain Real to Real to digital recording
is like when you listen to it later, it sounds like it was carved into stone.
You know what I mean?
Like there's an actual substance that's, it's...
Feels more analog.
Right, kind of like when they kind of carve it into vinyl records and stuff, right?
Yeah, yeah, there's something I don't even know.
It's almost like a movie that puts you in a place, right, that you can't explain until
somebody else like sees it for themselves, like Fight Club or The Matrix, you know what I mean?
And kids nowadays aren't even interested in those thought-provoking films.
It's all like short attention span.
Yeah, kids are all, they're too busy being hopped up on Adderall and ADHD meds.
Yeah, dude, my friend is like struggling with getting his life together.
A lot of us do just all kinds of different things going on in his life, but he's like debating
whether he has ADHD or autism, and I'm looking at the symptoms that they like associate with that.
All the symptoms are natural, normal, human behavior.
Basically anything now, right?
Anybody could fall into the spectrum, as they say.
And the medication they're giving him is pretty much methamphetamine, right?
Isn't that what Adderall basically is?
And man, the meth addiction that I've been hearing about and stuff in different cities,
not around here, but like...
Have you been paying attention to the Olympics at all?
A little bit.
There's that girl who's the gold medalist, the Simone, I've heard her last name.
Simone Biles.
Simone Biles.
So you just quit and everyone's like shitting on her online.
Everyone's hating on her super hard.
Why'd she quit?
Well, she says it's mental health disorder, but what happened was there's actually a story
that snuck through on the inside here.
I think it was.
Forget the name of the, forget the article.
You can probably find it Austin.
But she had a prescription to an ADHD, ADHD medication.
Yeah, there it is.
She had a prescription to Ritalin or Adderall, and she's been on it for how, who knows how long?
Six, probably at least six years.
And for Tokyo, they banned any kind of ADHD medicine.
So she wasn't allowed to take it.
So apparently right before the Tokyo Olympics, she had to get off it completely.
So...
So when was ADHD really starting to be used as a popular diagnosis?
Or when was it really coined as even a phrase or a term?
Because I started looking at terms like schizophrenia just to see where did this come from?
Where was it?
It's origin.
And that one turned out being this guy that happened to be a Freemason from 1901.
And I was like, red flag, red flag.
Really?
Yeah.
He coined the term schizophrenia?
Yeah, basically.
He was the first doctor to start using that diagnosis.
That's fucking weird, huh?
It's always the Freemasons.
In the beginning of the century, the 1900s was kind of insane if you really reanalyze it.
I started looking at a lot of occult images and videos and just a little even Hollywood itself.
Like the term Hollywood is literally referring to like what witches at the time used to make their
wands out of Hollywood.
Hollywood?
Holly.
Maybe they just, I thought it might have been Hollywood.
I don't think they named it Holly.
I don't think witches did holy shit.
Well, they do, but it could be.
It is.
It could be an association.
The devil at one point was, the devil was created by God and he was an angel.
Allegedly.
Then he got sent to hell.
Allegedly.
It's in the Bible.
It's in the Bible.
It's written in stone.
Actually, I don't, I'm not sure if that is written in stone, but.
But yeah.
So anyways, imagine being this girl who, you know, you've been on this ADHD, speed,
meth, and amphetamine medication for the last five years.
Mine needs all of a sudden.
All these meds too.
All of a sudden they take it away from you.
And then you have to fucking figure out life without it.
Like you got to, if you're that hooked on something and then get it taken away.
The best way to fix problems is to make bigger problems.
Yeah.
Maybe it could have been, it could have been just like she was so good.
They had to figure out a way to like take away everything that she has.
Well, no, I guess basically they were using meth.
Find a way to find someone else to win.
You know what I mean?
There's like a military.
Well, I'm sure.
It dials her in, right?
I mean, that's what that drugs kind of does.
I mean, it fucking.
The Nazis in Germany were using meth and amphetamine.
Yeah.
Wasn't it, wasn't it also what they were doing?
That's how they marched from country to country.
All zipped up.
Oh God.
On meth.
That's insane.
It was also that they ran out of Adderall in France.
That's why the flag fell down.
I'm just joking.
I was going to go with that.
Isn't that also what they gave the Japanese during the Pearl Harbor,
the Japanese fucking pilots.
Flying their planes into the ships and shit.
I'm sure they were on meth and amphetamine.
Well, I'm sure they were.
But at the same time, I also found out that we were always taught to believe that
those Japanese flew straight over knowing they'd run out of gas
and just eventually crash and murder or kill or whatever, right?
But I found out they actually took over a base that wasn't far from Hawaii first.
So they probably had a lot more opportunity to fuel up and stuff.
It's like the narrative I grew up learning turned out to be slightly different.
Because yeah, the Johnston Atoll was a man-made barge that they put in the middle of the ocean.
So there's no way that Pearl Harbor wasn't warned by their barge.
What is the narrative that they knew about,
our government knew about that and it could have been avoided, right?
I think some people knew about it.
I personally believe that our government made a trade-off with the Japanese government.
The elites of our government, we're working with the elites of their government,
because it's all a money game, man.
Everything is about money.
By them attacking Pearl Harbor, what did that do?
We got to test out nuclear weapons.
Like, hooray.
Yeah, it's a great excuse, convenient excuse, right?
Yeah, and you know what?
The first nuclear bomb testing was, or where it was done, was like...
Arizona, right?
It was a McDonald's farm ranch.
Like a McDonald's family.
For the restaurant?
I'm not 100% sure it was a McDonald's family, but I can only assume.
It would make sense.
Who else would it be?
It could have been one of the Koch brothers.
It could have been one of their farms.
Yeah, yeah.
The Hamburglar.
Either way, it's like, wait, one of these Fortune 500 companies was involved in nuclear weapons,
and then I just started looking at that McDonald's,
and we were talking about symbolism, really, and stuff, right?
The McDonald's logo almost looks like a bomb with a trajectory.
Can you find out where the first nuclear bomb test was in the US?
Or a McDonald's logo conspiracy?
Either one will work.
I already, I'm going to make a song eventually, where it's like the giant arches,
but it's really an exploit.
I think I've already got it in a sketchbook somewhere.
It's just not like done properly.
The world's first nuclear explosion occurred in New Mexico.
South of New Mexico.
Who owned it?
Did Ronald McDonald own it?
Oh yeah, it was called the Trinity site.
Ronald McDonald.
The Trinity site.
Is that what it's called?
Bro, I saw a video on Instagram the other day,
like Kelly Slater reposted, and it was an underwater nuclear bomb test,
where they showed a nuclear bomb going off underwater,
and it was fucking insane.
The water went like miles into the air.
That's crazy.
It must have killed so many fish.
They exploded a microwave out back.
Your friends do?
When did they do this?
They've done it a couple of times, but this was the last time, I'm pretty sure.
How?
Because Steve's not working there anymore,
because he got a different job.
And then, I guess the police got involved.
Somebody at the bus stop was worried about Shraddnell,
and because everybody wanted to denial him, it got...
How would they go about blowing up a microwave out back?
Well, it was just a broken microwave, and they had like...
Just stick some tin foil in it?
Some metal in it?
No, it wasn't functioning.
It wasn't plugged in.
It was just like something to put a quarter stick of dynamite in it.
Yeah, yeah.
Put dynamite in it?
Allegedly.
I'm already terrified of anything.
Your parents are schizophrenic?
No, no.
Well, I don't know.
They could probably diagnose me that if they wanted to.
Yeah.
What do you diagnose yourself with?
That's the most important thing.
Happy.
I'm just joking.
I'm miserable.
You're miserable?
No, no.
I don't know.
I'm doing an array right now, figuring some stuff out.
Everybody's confused this day and age with...
Are we going on lockdown again now?
Yeah, I think we are going on lockdown.
Florida, I think, took the prize again for number one...
I don't know what the status...
Every other member of every other state...
Yeah, I mean, everybody's here.
What do you think about the COVID-19?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by NordVPN.
Think about all the fun things that you do online.
Watching Netflix shows, shopping, enjoying your morning coffee with free wifi.
You may not know that your internet provider knows every single website you visit.
What's even worse than that is that in the U.S.,
they are legally allowed to sell this information to ad companies and tech giants.
What's worse in places like the U.K. and Australia,
internet providers are required by law to store your metadata for up to two years
and government agencies can look into it whenever they want.
Well, with just one click, NordVPN puts a stop to all of this
by encrypting 100% of your internet data and rerouting it through over the next few years.
Over 5,200 of their secure servers so that all of your online activity is private.
NordVPN also lets you choose which server location you want to reroute your connection through
so you can browse the internet as if you're from another country.
It takes just one click.
Just open the map, click the location, and you'll be connected in seconds.
It's that easy.
I love using NordVPN for Netflix
because Netflix only shows you a small fraction of their entire content library
and it gives you different shows depending on which location you're in.
With NordVPN, you can access thousands of new shows in just seconds.
Additionally, it's been confirmed by their speed test that NordVPN is the fastest VPN on the map.
So protect your online privacy and have access to thousands of extra shows
with the VPN that I trust.
Go to NordVPN.com slash concrete to get a two-year plan plus four additional months
with a huge discount.
That's N-O-R-D-V-P-N dot com slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E to learn more.
Did you get it?
Contagion there or contagion?
What is that movie called?
Contagion.
Oh, yeah.
Of course, I haven't had television in my home for like 10 years.
That's probably good.
And I'm staying with my father temporarily and I was like flipping through channels
and the only thing that it is to watch is like, oh, this terrifying, horrifying news
or contagion.
Contagion.
That was the only thing on the other night in South Park, which is really accurate as the news.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's, I don't know.
I think there's a lot of stuff going on.
There can be a lot of misguidance and a lot of our society likes to follow a platform.
And I think we have to be able to move within and without the platform or like,
yeah, our society just has like a process they like to run with and I feel like they're
stick to the story.
They're eliminating any other possibilities.
Like even that, that condominium in Miami.
How crazy is that shit?
What happened?
Yeah.
And nobody's worried about like, was there slumlords like running the place?
You know what I mean?
Like, why isn't that a topic at all that I've noticed?
Yeah, it got blown over pretty quick.
It seems like.
Well, it was more about recovering the bodies and identifying them.
Not about the problem.
Yeah, no.
Well, they did.
I think they did.
I saw something that they were going to try to like change some sort of rules when it comes to
the like maintaining the infrastructure of hotels and like high rises along the ocean,
along the coastline.
But at the same time.
Because I think the mandate or the rules are that they have to have some sort of like
structural inspection.
I think it's like every 20 years.
40.
40 years.
Yeah, it's every 40 years.
They have to have some sort of like some sort of.
What's a structural inspection?
A structural inspection.
It's like your elevator has to be inspected every three years or whatever.
So I think they did something about that.
I'm not 100% sure.
But there's got to be so many more buildings that are like that.
That are so that are structurally compromised.
Especially the way that it fell down like watching it.
It didn't look like.
They look like building seven.
Ding ding ding.
It kind of looked like.
I don't know.
It all fell down at once.
It didn't make sense as far as my brain thinks about things falling apart.
What were the other potential possibilities of why it collapsed?
Like a controlled demolition of some sort.
Like.
What was in there?
What were they hiding in there?
What did they get rid of that?
Why would they do a controlled demolition of a condo building?
A friend of mine at work told me that I should look into this, but I never got around to it.
And it is a lot of speculation.
But a friend.
What is this?
Who's this guy?
Oh, just a co-worker doesn't co-work with me anymore.
Okay.
He got fired.
No, he actually moved on.
First stealing money out of the register.
Yeah, he brought it up to my attention.
He was like, oh, there was some idea that a lot of the people that were living in the
buildings were related to people that knew information about certain things.
Oh, yeah.
It was a Q and on convention center there.
Yeah.
I forget what I heard, too, but I heard something like there was certain people in
there of interest or some people with some documentation.
That could know some stuff that they wouldn't want other people to know.
That seems a little crazy that they would demolish a whole building full of people.
Yeah, with the condition of the building.
Well, there could be a different reason, too.
I guess like there could be money.
But does everything have to be a conspiracy?
Does every fucking weird thing that happens have to be a government conspiracy?
I think there's a problem when everyone thinks that.
Oh, yeah, they said John McAfee owned something.
Oh, I remember.
We talked about this.
There was a Q and on conspiracy theory that where Q and on believed that John McAfee owned
the condo and he had a bunch of files.
He had a bunch of dirt on people that was he was storing there or something.
And that's why they demolished it.
So this debunks it.
He says he didn't own it.
What does that say?
Claim, the late John McAfee, the creator of McAfee antivirus software, owned a unit
in the condo building that partially collapsed on Thursday.
Okay, that was the claim that he owned a unit in that building.
31 terabytes of files.
So what is the conclusion?
What does it say?
The facts keep going.
It was a fake tweet.
It was a fake tweet.
Someone said he owned a unit there.
That sounds convenient.
That's the problem with the internet.
There's always some assholes on there who's going to try to make some
fucking bogus claim that all the Q and on people will just grab onto and ride into the sunset.
Well, how do you know these people are telling the truth?
That's the problem.
You don't.
That's the problem.
What's this Q and on thing?
I don't really know much about it.
You don't know what Q and on is?
No.
It's this group of, it's basically a group of super hardcore right wing Trump supporters.
I think mostly.
There's a problem right there.
Why are we associating conspiracy theories to those people?
Because it's true.
If you asked them all, all the Q and on people are, I think this is pretty well known.
They're all Trump supporters.
There's no left wing Q and on people.
They all believe.
Anonymous.
They all believe that there is a deep state human trafficking ring that's tied, I guess,
to the Clintons and Epstein where it's like human child trafficking.
And they believe that Donald Trump is like God's chosen Messiah to save,
to expose the human trafficking ring from the corrupt deep state.
If you even look up what their beliefs are.
Yeah.
Running a, they will.
They panic cannibalistic pedophiles.
What if it's all true except for the part about Donald Trump being like the profit of it?
Well, here's the thing.
Here's the problem with it.
Okay.
If Donald Trump was some guy who was going to expose and save the world from a child,
from cannibal child pedophiles, wouldn't he have bragged about it by now?
I mean, he literally toots his own horn about everything he does.
What if he's involved in it?
I mean, who knows?
Who knows if this shit even exists.
But the fact that you think Donald Trump's going to be the one that,
like the superhero that saves everybody from it is kind of crazy.
Yeah, definitely not.
But I don't know.
It just seems like the QAnon group, they're more like like angry people,
you know, angry people who the world is kind of like shut out.
They live in their mom's basement.
They really know how they have really no other happiness in their lives.
There's no shining light and they just use the internet to.
So they're basically being psychologically abused by a source that funds QAnon?
Impossibly.
So it's almost like a lot of people that stormed the capital were QAnon people.
It's like a double switch or yeah, what if they're all hired guns?
That's possible.
There you see that video when they stormed the capital,
there's actual video of police letting people through the gates.
I'm starting to realize like the Beatles, I think they were,
or their fans were like hired guns at the beginning to like stir up the mania.
You know what I mean?
If I pay 200 girls to scream their heads off.
In an auditorium.
Why not?
And film it and then tell the rest of the world with media that this is the best thing
that there's ever been.
Yeah, that's interesting.
That's all it takes, right?
Where did you hear this?
I've never heard that before.
I found out that the Beatles were actually introduced on CBS exactly two hours before JFK was assassinated.
What?
Yeah, so the theory is that JFK was assassinated and they were using this band
to drive the young youth of America stir crazy.
And then when the Beatles kind of started to figure it out
and they weren't going to play ball quite as well as they were.
And that's when they started putting like codes in their lyrics and stuff.
To distract people from.
Well, at that point they were trying to whistle blow through symbolism
and like other methods.
Whistle blow to who though?
In audience, you know what I mean?
Like if I write a song but I want to tell you something but I don't want to directly tell you
I can just like lead you into it.
What sort of messages were they trying to convey through their music?
Well, at the beginning they were trying to they had a song called Taxman.
And it was basically like they took the Batman theme song because it was popular on TV at the time.
And they made it Taxman.
And yeah, can we put that song on Taxman?
We'll probably get we'll get copyrighted.
Oh, yeah, one.
So or yeah, or even just pull up the lyrics maybe.
Lyrics of Taxman.
Yeah, Beatles bumped.
Fab Four were supposed to be on CBS News the night of the JFK assassination.
They were in the morning.
Wow, 55.
But they actually 50 years ago, Friday.
See within three months after the assassination.
All the British invasion was going down.
Wow.
So they so do you think the Beatles being put on CBS was just like distract people from the JFK shit?
Well, I think that's why the mania created was created.
You know what I mean?
Just to spice it up a little more.
Yeah, you know, it was maybe.
Yeah, who's the most popular artist right now?
Eminem still.
Right now?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Who's who's the bee's knees these days?
That's a good question.
I guess it depends what what fucking is a Taylor Swift still?
I don't know.
I think Conye.
Conye.
Conye.
Walla Palooza had Foo Fighters and Miley Cyrus headlining.
Really?
Yeah.
Miley's popping.
Miley's still popping.
Oh, well, that's crazy, bro.
Damn, that's crazy.
Damn.
It is fucking hot as shit.
Well, okay.
So like a lot of Bob Dylan was like singing songs and messages to get everybody stirred
up sort of.
And there's a theory that Bob Dylan was.
Yeah, there's there was a conspiracy theory about Bob Dylan that kind of went under over
past overlooked.
What was that conspiracy that he died in 1966 in a motorcycle accident outside of Woodstock?
So I've kind of developed my own little theory that maybe Woodstock was actually like a
celebration that the public had recognized Paul art that Bob Dylan was killed in this
motorcycle accident.
And that's why they had the concert there and the flowers didn't really represent
like what everybody thinks it is like hippie love like maybe it was a funeral
for Bob Dylan.
Yeah.
But how far he was after he died after?
He went into a huge hiatus from I was looking this up the other day.
It was a.
I sound like an idiot right now, but I don't even know Bob Dylan's still alive.
He is.
That's what's creepy is all these artists that are like possibly killed and replaced.
Yeah, dude.
They do say that.
It's weird.
Like if you watch the first performance of Bob Dylan after his accident,
which didn't come out until like 1971 or something.
So he went into hiding from like 1966 to 1971.
And I really think that that's why Jimi Hendrix covered all along the watch tower.
Yeah.
He thought his dude died and he shredded it.
Oh yeah.
Wow.
So like, what if that's the case?
What if that's why they had to get rid of Jimmy because nobody could fake being Jimmy?
No.
Bob Dylan was kind of the end of that little era at that point.
So him going on a hiatus and coming back with record label money.
You could easily like disguise somebody in there.
I'm going to start a new band called the lookalikes.
We're just going to like look like other people.
What kind of people?
I don't even know.
We'll switch it up ever.
The blue man group.
How many bands do you have?
None that matter.
How many though?
I don't know.
We were going to do this thing where we can come up with a new band every hour.
That's a lot of bands.
Was it going to be the same members?
Just a bunch of bands.
I don't know.
Yeah.
We could always put a different name on it no matter what.
Yeah.
What's the problem with changing your band?
What is it?
The problem is it's hard to market it if you have their name every day.
Yeah.
We're not worried about marketing.
They're not on that level.
Probably should be.
Well at least you're having fun.
Maybe one day.
Yeah.
It's about just doing your thing right.
Do you guys make any money with catatonic scripts?
Do you guys like get paid to do shows?
Oh yeah.
We make money at shows.
Not like an outstanding amount or anything.
But that's probably on our own marketing fault.
Yeah.
Sounds like you need a manager.
Music is just in a weird place too.
We need money to have a manager.
True.
So if there's a manager out there that wants to work for free.
Pro bono.
Holler at us.
We'll find them out there somewhere.
Yeah.
I'm sure there is.
Now we're actually working on a new album.
We have a new lineup.
I've been working on these songs for a really long time.
So I'm stoked that we could, me and the other two guys, Tyler and Joe.
What up Joe?
What up Tyler?
Where's Steve at?
Is he around anymore?
He was playing bass for us for a while there.
Steve is sick.
Which Steve?
So this dude, Steve Rosick, he's a sick bass player.
He plays all sorts of instruments.
But you're actually recorded.
He's super sick.
He helped us mix and master this album.
Yeah.
And recorded all these songs on it.
Wow, the artwork is super dope on it.
You do all those artwork?
Do you draw all that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Here, hold it up for the hold it next to your face.
Is he like making artwork and shit?
Pull it back.
Be marketing.
Yeah.
Hold it up.
There you go.
There we go.
Yeah.
So what is that on the cover?
What is that?
I was trying to find a dope place with a tree that was growing out of control and
went from park to park in the county and came across this one.
And I was like, whoa, that's it.
Is that an astronaut?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Me and my drummer are on the cover because we were the only two persistent members at the time.
We actually took all these photos to where we're actually in the image
three times a piece.
And then this astronaut character is in there three times.
So it's definitely like a weird photo.
So we're kind of like tucked.
I'm up here in the tree.
He's over here in the tree.
I'm over there in the tree again.
He's there again.
And then me and him again at the bottom.
And then the astronauts like in there.
Wow.
An astronaut in the woods.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like he's rediscovering earth or something.
But the astronaut takes some psychedelic mushrooms.
Yeah.
But he's just lost in the woods.
He doesn't know what planet he's on.
Where am I?
It's like this planet's tight though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And what's the inside self discovery and stuff.
So then just like it almost looks like architecture.
Or just like dinosaur bones.
And who knows what really killed them.
Maybe it was a nuke sent from the future.
Ooh.
A nuke sent from the time travel aliens.
Yeah.
What if that's what Pompeii was.
From the tall whites.
We never know dude.
Like yeah.
What if the Nazis.
Have you thought a lot about that.
A little bit.
Especially after watching that movie.
Tenet.
I've never seen that.
Me neither.
No.
It's like the newest Christopher Nolan movie.
Tenet.
Or what.
Sounds familiar.
Is that the director's name.
Christopher Nolan.
Christopher Nolan.
Yeah.
He did the Batman.
Yeah he did Batman.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He also did Inception.
Well what's it about.
Tenet.
Oh I've heard of that.
Can you find the trailer for Tenet.
Yeah.
There's all this symbolism and he a lot of the whole movie is
like half of it goes backwards.
And this character.
So if you spell out say tour square.
No Tenet.
Oh I'm sorry.
If you spell out the word Tenet.
Yeah.
Like across and down.
Like in a cross.
Right.
Okay.
The end is the only letter being borrowed really.
Right.
And then if you spell say tour at the top.
And then row toss at the bottom.
And you really got to see it.
It's hard for me to kind of explain.
All right.
He's looking he's looking it up.
Say tour square.
Yeah.
After watching the movie the first and second time.
Or the first time I started like looking like anybody
finding Easter eggs in this movie.
Yeah.
That's what I like to do.
I like movies that have Easter eggs.
Google image it.
Little hidden messages that only the director knows is there.
And hopefully somebody catches it.
That was it.
Yeah.
Okay.
What are we looking at.
Okay.
Yeah.
So this symbol I guess the Christians of the time of Pompeii
would have this say tour square.
It's called a magic square.
Click on the one on the second row all the way to the left.
To the left.
That one.
Yeah.
All right.
Say tour are repo tenant opera rotos.
Yeah.
So if you look at the letters backwards it works.
Oh no.
Wow.
Yeah.
And what's even creepier is that it works in reverse speech too.
It's not just a spelling.
Like if if you say those words.
Aropa are repo tenant opera.
Right.
Operas rotos backwards.
What the fuck.
Rotos is say tour backwards.
So what is the what is the significance of this thing.
Well anytime that the.
Go to that black one it says did you know it tells you about it.
Yeah.
Right there.
Okay.
Did you know the say tour square is the world's oldest 2D paint pan.
Palindrome.
Palindrome.
Okay.
New word found in the ruins of Pompeii.
It was believed to have magic powers because it contains five connected.
I forget the word again.
Palindrome.
Palindromes.
Each of the Latin words say tour are repo tenant and opera.
And rotos can be read bottom to top top to bottom left to right and right to left.
That's weird.
So they found this in Pompeii in the remains of Pompeii.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And since this movie is about time travel and things going backwards.
It made me think like whoa.
What if Pompeii's volcano eruption wasn't a volcano eruption.
What if even in a science fiction movie.
Do they do they reference this thing at all in the movie.
The the the say tour square.
The main antagonists name is say tour.
The opening scene of the movie is an opera.
Oh the company's names in the background is like.
One of the other phrases.
I'd have to watch it again.
I haven't.
I saw it twice.
Hera.
Last year.
What if Oprah was part of it.
Oprah.
What if Oprah time traveled and she was the one traveling.
She's been with Doc.
Doc and Marty.
Rick and Morty.
Oh yeah.
See they went into time and that's true bro.
Fuck.
What if Rick and Morty fucking sent Oprah back in time to Nuke Pompeii.
Yeah.
I don't really necessarily believe in time travel.
But because the movie was about backwards matter and arms dealers.
I was like whoa that would be interesting.
I think it's possible aliens are time travelers.
You know that people see like aliens.
They think they see aliens and get abducted by aliens.
Don't you think those could be time travelers.
I thought yeah the guy that put the ketamine in your drink.
Her GHB.
No bro.
Like there's people that actually like have like vivid accounts of being abducted by aliens.
Like Travis Walton.
You ever heard of him.
No I haven't no.
He's this guy who's this logger who's out in Arizona with like eight other loggers.
And they were all in like their 20s or whatever.
And they saw this glowing light in the woods after like a long day of cutting trees.
And they all saw this kid.
He ran out like Travis was one of them.
He saw this bright light guy out of the truck ran towards it.
And they fucking all saw him get sucked up into the ship.
And then he disappeared for like five days.
And no one knew where the fuck he was.
They arrested all the other kids.
And they thought that he that they murdered him or something.
They were all like no they all have the same exact story.
These kids are like early 20s.
And then five days later he shows up fucking.
He finds a phone booth and calls his parents.
And then he just tells the story.
And then as soon as he gets back before he even got to see his friends.
He told the story of what happened.
And it was identical to what his friends said.
And there's been literally and anyways it's fucking insane if you actually listen to the
story. There's a whole documentary about it too.
It's called I think it's called fire in the sky.
Okay.
But um anyways I forget what else to do.
I'll say oh yeah time traveling aliens.
Oh that's what it was.
But I mean how else would they get here.
How else would they get here.
You think they travel fucking quadrillions of light years.
You just cut a little hole in time and come right through.
And come see us fucking drooling baboons with nuclear weapons trying to kill each other.
See what we're doing.
Yeah yeah.
Well I also think what if it was like the Russians.
It's always the Russians.
That could be too.
It could be the Russians.
What if it was my band and we just had people dressed up as aliens.
Are you that are you on that level.
That would be pretty cool.
Catatonic scripts were known for abducting people and bringing them back.
Yeah.
Kind of looks like it's all white.
You know I don't want to be in charge of abducting anyone honestly.
Yeah it seems like a lot of it seems like a hard job.
Aliens got it rough.
It's a tough job.
They don't get paid enough.
Even if those aliens did abduct somebody like for what purpose.
To study us.
Just like we like just like we like a abduct sharks out of the ocean stick probes in them
and follow where they've been.
You know what I mean.
Yeah yeah yeah that's.
We do the same shift.
We have to.
But why.
Why do we have to.
I don't know.
But like I don't know even landing on the moon.
Was it really that important.
Did we really land on the moon.
Even if we did I would know.
It looked kind of phony to me.
Well there's like theories that Stanley Kubrick was hired.
Yeah.
He was the hired gun.
By NASA right.
I'm sure it was NASA was involved.
I mean he was already making films that had space.
Right.
They wanted to figure out how he made it.
2001 space Odyssey would have been a hundred percent the reason.
Yep.
And then I don't know.
There's a lot of things about that movie The Shining he directed.
And he put all these.
There's a lot of weird shit in that movie.
Yeah.
There's actually documentary called Room 237.
And it's about all this extensive elaborate intentional.
Subliminal messaging.
Right.
Through that movie.
Really through The Shining.
Yeah.
What is the documentary called.
And he intentionally Room 237.
He intentionally changed a lot of the way the book was written.
Almost like he didn't want to work on Stephen King's movie.
Like it was contracted.
So he made the movie his own.
What the fuck.
Yeah.
Room 237.
It was something you could watch on YouTube.
Do they ever ask.
Before it was all monetized and stuff.
They interview Stanley Kubrick in that video in that movie.
In that documentary.
Do they ask him any of this stuff.
Like to his face.
I think he was already dead.
Oh he was.
Because he died during the production.
Or he died after the production of The Shining.
No.
What was the last movie you did.
Eyes wide shut.
That's another weird one too.
Which is weird because it's all about secret societies.
Yeah.
And like if you want to make it in this world you have to join these secret societies.
That's got to be a conspiracy.
Well that's what was weird too.
Like the day that that movie was released was almost like he picked that date for a reason.
And I've noticed a lot of authors and writers and filmmakers and artists will release albums
on specific days.
Right.
Yeah.
Meaningful days.
Yeah.
Like even I found out that John Lennon was interviewed on 9 11.
On 9 11.
The same year that the World Trade Center was finished constructed.
That when they finished building it.
Yeah.
The same day.
Like.
Yeah.
It was like not.
No.
Yeah.
But that's just that's got to know he was on the news.
Or he was.
Fuck.
I forgot what I even said.
But what would John Lennon I mean.
I don't know.
I have a theory.
You could say anybody you could you could find a you could find a fucking million celebrities
who were interviewed on 9 11.
Yeah.
I'm sure of that.
But not one not the date the towers were were dropped.
But I'm saying like any 9 11 before that.
No.
John Lennon has been dead since 81.
So like I think he was trying to whistle blow a lot of stuff.
And I think he knew that they were building the World Trade Center to tear them down.
What.
Yeah.
To manipulate our society to do something called manufacturing consent.
So yeah we were talking about the Beatles earlier.
And how the Beatles may or may not have been used by our press and our media to kind of tone
down the feelings about JFK being assassinated.
And then it's the reason they needed to get rid of JFK was because they needed to build
these buildings.
And he was already trying to spill the beans about secret society.
If you listen to JFK his last speech before he was assassinated.
He clearly brings up that their secret society and they're getting away with like
the most atrocious things you'd ever imagine.
Right.
Yeah.
He said he's the one that coined the term conspiracy.
Is he really.
Yeah.
Basically without speech.
He's like there's a conspiracy that is so beyond any human's comprehension.
Like that's what he sounds like when he says it.
He's like literally addressing the people.
Like could you imagine all this shit that he knew.
Well he was the CIA wanted to get rid of him because of the Bay of Pigs.
Right.
Because he didn't want anything to do with that stuff.
Right.
Yeah.
He was trying to like get rid of all that.
So like I think that they couldn't even get away or they already had the plans on
building the World Trade Center.
And like do you know when it was built.
It was built in 1960 1968 was when they first started breaking ground
for the first hour.
But like they had to have already been kind of organizing the city to build
something that big.
Definitely.
Since like probably 66.
So I almost feel like the funding of the moon landing might have been to fund other
things involved with those towers.
Siphoning in the money over there of the moon landing.
Yeah.
Just the money that they pulled in.
And then I also think the moon landing like sure.
Great.
We landed there.
Right.
What was the real objective to put televisions in every home.
You know what I mean.
The television is used as a tool to make people move this way and move that way and
look at this and look at that.
Were there TVs already during the moon landing.
There were but they're not.
So every single household.
Is the idea that if something so extra like so groundbreaking is happening that if you
don't have a TV.
Everybody wants to watch.
You felt left out of the loop.
It would have been like Facebook.
Right.
Ten years after Facebook.
Yeah.
Because some people didn't care the whole time.
Right.
We were also racing with what we were also like had the space race like we were trying
to do before Russia.
Right.
Or that would have been maybe that we're working together just to put televisions
in our homes.
Yeah.
Get your TV.
Get it fixed.
Nowadays we've got like 50 televisions in every room.
I know.
I was just thinking about televisions in our pockets.
I was just trying to like read televisions while we're driving.
Everyone every room in your house like you base the toilet bowl you base the layout of
You base the layout of the room every room in your house based on where the TV is going to go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have this idea for a film I'd really like to make but I don't have time or money.
So I'll never.
What's it about.
Maybe I'll help you make it.
Yeah.
I was actually thinking that'd be cool dude.
So it'd be about this character that has a disease called hypergraphia.
It's this addiction to writing.
Right.
Like it keeps me up all night writing and writing and writing.
Yeah.
So this character would have a house that has all this writing written all over the household
like the furniture.
Walls and shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the idea is that I don't know.
I think you'd start the movie out like the pan and the words and everybody involved.
Right.
And you're just panning across all this furniture all this manic writing on it.
And that would intrigue like somebody like whoa what's going on.
This is not normal.
And then like maybe somebody's knocking on the door and fights themselves in and then
they find the dude that's writing and he's still writing like in a different room on
some other furniture.
But then I was thinking like he's writing about stuff and this stuff is going to be
related to these little facts and these little connections and these little dots.
So it'd be basically like the way a detective's room works when they're using those
strings and stuff.
You know what I mean.
Like this connects to that and that connects to this.
So and like I was thinking having the television in the middle of the room would and then having
all the information coming off of the television.
So like each room has like different information that kind of goes along with the room.
It's like the living room I have information about the moon landing and like other things
that are hugely televised.
What were the two biggest televised things 9-11 and the moon landing.
And maybe now COVID because it's been on the news for two years.
They win.
Yeah they win.
Wow.
They beat the moon landing and damn with money and like marketing and basically media.
Yeah.
So it's like what if the moon landing was really just to put televisions that remember
he's home and then the World Trade Center was really just to like put people under the
spell of you're under control.
Like there's nothing you can do about it.
You got to rely on the government.
Interesting.
Yeah it's a fear tactic.
You know what I mean.
Yeah.
What's crazy is my grandfather was I never knew my grandfather on my mother's side.
So I've only met my mom's father one time.
And he was a foreman of the iron workers union that built the World Trade Center.
So I grew up with my mom telling me about going to the World Trade Center while it was being built.
That's really the only reason I even looked up.
When was it being built.
Because who thinks about that.
When was the construction complete.
What year do you know.
1971.
See and that's why I think John Lennon.
What year were you born.
On to national television knowing that they finished it and knowing that they might have
planned on doing this thing on 9 11.
What year were you born.
And think about it.
When was 9 1 1 created as an emergency phone call.
Like nobody even thinks about those details like when.
Hold on a second.
You said you're you grew up with your mom trying to get you to go watch your.
No my mom grew up in New York while the World Trade Center was being built.
Okay.
Yeah.
And your mom went to go see her dad building it.
Yeah.
She probably went to the ceremonies when it was done.
I think.
Yeah.
And I I looked up like who built the buildings like the architect.
Because it was the company that built it was called Koch.
My mom told me that and I've looked it up and it's kind of misleading some of this stuff.
About the World Trade Center is like you can't really I couldn't find my grandfather's name
involved anywhere.
Yeah.
But I know that it's not made up that he was part of this.
My mom even showed me like a card that they gave them for the holidays like the year they
finished it.
So like I have like proof no one else would ever have.
And what is this what is this Austin.
What is this Austin.
Manufacturing consent.
Oh yeah.
Yeah that's basically like if I tell you that you need security on your home
and then you're like I'll be all right and then I rob your house the next day
and don't tell you that I did it and then I convince you you sure you don't need that
security.
It sounds like you need it now.
Yeah.
I was even thinking that maybe the Manson murders what if they were staged in LA and
what if they were used to popularize security.
Because what was security like in LA before then.
Probably low.
You know what I mean.
February 16th that's when.
Same year.
Same year.
It's a booyah connecting dots all day.
So nine one one.
Emergency hotline was created the same year.
The World Trade Center was built.
And guess the guy that the architect that built it.
Guess what else he did.
Danny's mind blown right now.
He built the Federal Reserve.
It kind of it just.
Yeah bro.
Who is it.
What's his name.
I don't know because it's.
Hey by the way this episode is a hundred percent getting shadow man on YouTube.
He's Japanese.
He is.
What's your name.
What the Federal Reserve.
I was already saying I think that our governments when we're talking about Pearl Harbor and.
The bomb being dropped right.
I thought our governments were like hey you let us do this we'll let you do this.
We both win.
We know what these bombs will do.
We terrify every other country in the world.
Right.
Look we win together.
Because there's like a massive connection between Japan and Hawaii.
There always has been LBJ that ended up in office after JFK.
He's actually directly related to Obama.
How so.
Like the bloodline.
Oh really.
It's like his uncle or some shit.
So Obama's from Hawaii.
And that's where LBJ like spent.
That's where Pearl Harbor was.
Yep.
Interesting.
And then what was the last quarter that came out.
With the bat symbol.
Yeah.
Right when COVID hit.
That's weird.
What the fuck.
How weird is that.
And then why did they do that.
Contagion.
But it's the last thing.
But they bring it to the bat.
I've never seen Contagion.
I didn't either until it was on TV.
I've seen it before.
But I don't know.
It's been a long time ago.
To see the broadcasting what they want us to believe.
Like television has been used to broadcast.
Well I don't know.
It's about yeah.
It kind of like desensitized.
It makes sense why they want television.
Why they would want televisions in all the homes.
To control people through fear.
And to control people through propaganda.
Yeah.
And to make people believe certain narratives.
Or to make people to be able to control them through politics.
Like right and left.
Have everyone fighting against each other.
Yeah divide and conquer.
Yamasaki was the architect.
World Trade Center in New York City.
Which was briefly the tallest building in the world.
Was designed by Yamasaki.
Wow.
He also built another Twin Towers.
Minora Yamasaki.
In California.
Called like the Twin Century Towers.
Yeah yeah yeah.
And I guess like when you watch Fight Club at the end.
When all those buildings.
I think those are in Santa Monica.
Those were the Twin Century Towers.
Which kind of looked like the Twin Towers.
And he actually built them too.
Looked like the Twin Towers.
Probably the same materials.
Same structural design.
Just different.
Those didn't collapse did they.
Not yet.
In Fight Club.
In Fight Club they did.
See that was crazy.
The Fight Club came out like 1999.
Oh my god.
Right.
And it was about.
Taking down the stock market basically.
Right the plot basically.
Yeah.
And then at the end.
What was crazy is when I was younger.
And we were watching that movie.
We rented it from Blockbuster.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's watch this.
Me and my brother.
We go home we're watching it.
My mom walks in at the end of the movie.
When the buildings are falling down.
And like I said her father built the Twin Towers.
So when she saw those towers going down.
Just walking in the room for two seconds.
She was like turn that movie off.
I don't like it.
Like all this.
And that was before 9-11.
She didn't even make the association.
And they're like wow that happened two years later.
Or three years later.
And then what I didn't realize is that.
The buildings that fell in that movie.
Were a different two towers.
That this guy happened to build.
The same guy that built the Twin Towers.
Different from the Century Towers.
He built both the Century Towers and the Twin Towers.
So if it was a reference to the Twin Towers falling.
They used a reference to the other Twin Towers.
The same guy built.
That is really weird.
Isn't it.
That's a strange coincidence.
It's hard to avoid.
It's hard to avoid those kind of coincidences.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I don't know.
My perspective on it was.
I was a little kid watching this movie in 1999.
My mom's walking in the room.
And she saw those buildings going down.
My grandmother took us.
To the World Trade Center one year before it went down.
It was almost like.
She might have known because.
Her husband at the time.
Was constructing it.
Like I feel like that could have been a huge part of why she got divorced.
And took the kids down here to Florida.
Get away.
There's no way the fucking construction companies knew about that shit.
Well he wasn't.
He was the foreman.
Even the foreman bro.
I don't know.
They're not going to tell.
He might be working hand in hand with.
That guy we had pulled up there.
He would have to be.
No bro.
The foreman.
There's no way.
There's a foreman or so far down the ladder.
From the people that are funding this shit.
And they would never let those.
The foreman are.
Yeah but they're building it.
The architect.
He had to have at least met that architect.
Yeah but do you really even think the architect knew this kind of stuff.
This is like deep state conspiracy.
He designed the federal reserve.
He definitely knows.
So if there was any secret entrances in and out of this building.
This guy knew.
And probably the foreman.
Yeah.
Because like when it went down it wasn't.
Is this guy still alive Yamasaki.
No.
He's born in 1912 so doubt it.
Okay.
See that same time period where things were getting rough.
1912.
That's like the same time period.
So one of the first Hollywood blockbuster films was a birth of a nation.
Are you familiar with that film at all.
Birth of a nation is like a radical propaganda film.
Black and white silent promoting the KKK.
It was the first movie shown in the White House.
What.
Yeah.
The KKK was booming in 1919.
Right.
But that movie was a lead grossing film until Gone with the Wind came out.
So it had like a 30 year pedestal.
How the birth of a nation revived the Klu Klux Klan.
Wait what does that top part say.
The very top part.
DW Griff Griffiths controversial epic 1915 film about the civil war and the reconstruction
depicted the Klu Klux Klan as valiant saviors of the post war south ravaged by northern
carpet baggers and freed black people.
Wow.
Look they even got the KKK horse.
Fucking dude like a knight on a horse.
Wow that's fucking.
Horse has no idea what he's doing bro.
So that's like the first big blockbuster film.
Yeah if if if anybody wants to say anybody's racist say it's Hollywood because Hollywood was funded
by this.
Off this movie.
Yeah look it was like the lead grossing film for like 30 years until Gone with the Wind came out.
What motivates you to to research all this stuff.
I just see little things in red flags dude just like Paul's killed.
Just like who.
Paul from the Beatles.
Oh.
You guys have heard that conspiracy right now.
I guess there's statistics that when that conspiracy was rolling like.
What is that 61 percent.
So like I was saying Bob Dylan could have been killed and replaced.
But he actually had time between when the new guy came out.
There was like a hiatus.
All right there was a couple of years.
So that helps.
Yeah.
Well when the rumor of Paul being dead was well it's because like I said the
government was helping the Beatles out over here and there's all kinds of rumors that the Beatles
were being put on LSD with and without them knowing it.
So like George Harrison from the Beatles was on the Dick Cavick show and he was interviewed
and Dick Cavick was kind of being like what is it.
He was gaslighting George Harrison and he was like George like why are you guys admitting on
national television international television that you guys do drugs.
Like isn't that irresponsible to your young viewers and George Harrison just responded
like so professionally is like well is it my responsibility to lie about what you asked me.
Don't ask the question.
Yeah.
You know what I mean.
Like if you don't want to know the answer and then he was talking about LSD and he was like
yeah the first time we did LSD we didn't even know we were on it.
We were at our doctor's house and he had given us some coffee.
Sidney Gottlieb.
What's that.
I never mind.
I don't know.
Okay I'll explain after you finish the story.
Sorry to interrupt.
So no but that was pretty much the end of the story.
Oh was it.
It was at the perfect time.
Sidney Gottlieb was a guy chemist who was hired by the CIA's lead chemist.
They called him the Poisoner-in-Chief and he developed a program called MKUltra.
Yeah yeah this is all about MKUltra.
Yeah and that goes back to like the whole Charles...
I just had a guy on here who spent the last 20 years of his life writing a book about Charles
Manson.
It's called Chaos and it basically debunks all of the known narratives about the Manson
murders, the lobbyonka tape murders and it basically explains how Manson kept getting
let out of prison when he shouldn't have been and kept violating parole and not getting let out
and how him and they were visiting this free clinic in San Francisco and him and all of
those hippie followers they were going to this free clinic and they were getting LSD.
Yeah yeah.
And it's basically all about all that.
Well if you listen to the Hotel California backwards it's a...
There's references almost like that was the spot to get the LSD from the operatives to
Hotel California.
What?
Yeah.
If you play Hotel California backwards.
Yeah.
What does it do?
Well first of all the guitar riff sounds identical both ways.
So that was pretty impressive.
Can you try to find that like on YouTube?
That won't get copyrighted if you play it backwards.
That's all I do.
I cover songs backwards now.
I'm the first ever...
No so leave it up.
It's fine.
Well maybe I might not be the first ever but whatever just tape it up.
I've been covering songs backwards.
Really?
What made you want to do that?
Yeah last time I saw you you were actually...
I saw you a couple times your band play and then like the last time I saw you were doing
like some of the same music but playing it in reverse.
Or even live as well.
I think you were recording music in reverse and playing it live in reverse or something you said.
Well yeah I found this method.
So we were talking about phonetic palindrome...
Or we were talking about palindromes.
Yeah.
Right palindrome as well.
Hold on here's Hotel California backwards.
Okay yeah this is always fun.
Tell me that doesn't sound the same.
It is.
It does sound like the regular song.
Yeah it does.
It's almost identical.
So this was supposed to direct people to do what?
To buy LSD from the Hotel California.
Or at least I think they're telling a story of what might have really been going on at the
Hotel California.
What is the what is the actual Hotel California?
I don't know but I heard that Paul the fake Paul McCartney was like staying there a lot
and there's like rumors that he might have been directly influencing the Manson family.
What?
Yeah because there's like the Beatles were connected to the Manson murders.
Yeah well one of the guys with the Helter Skelter thing was debunked.
He copied that from somebody.
Manson they copied that whole you can turn it off now.
He wanted to he wanted some sort of record deal.
It was directly related but it wasn't directly related as far as Paul says it wasn't.
Right the prosecutor put that on backwards.
The prosecutor for the fucking Manson trial.
He wrote the book he literally like during the whole entire trial he hired a writer
to be sitting in on the trial so he could write a book about it.
The guy was absolutely fucking nuts.
The guy the uh the head prosecutor I forget his name.
Buleosi Vincent Buleosi.
And uh but Manson was basically raised by the prison system.
He was a product of the prison system.
Right he was.
So what's more terrifying all the shit he did or that?
Right but he was a two-bit criminal his whole entire life just like stealing cars,
robbing grocery stores and just doing like.
He wasn't.
Right.
Right exactly but I mean going from that to fucking brainwashing people with LSD.
Credibility.
It's easy to destroy credibility you know what I mean.
Uh huh.
Like any musician at any point in time can be like pointed the finger at them and heroin addicts.
Right.
You know what I mean and like yeah I don't know if it's always true.
It's like anytime some rock star dies suicide or this or that.
Like Kurt Cobain.
Yeah dude I don't know.
I like to think that Kurt faked his death.
And he's high Elvis.
Yeah and if you listen to hard shape box backwards he pretty much tells you tells you he faked his death.
Do you listen to a lot of music backwards?
Uh I write music backwards so.
How do you write music backwards?
Like oh you mean you take existing music and you rewrite it backwards?
No I just make small phrases.
I have an app on my phone called iReverse Speech.
Oh right and then I can record small phrases like.
Yeah show me an example.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
So backwards it should sound vaguely similar.
Whoa yeah sometimes it's really clear sometimes it can be a little shaky.
So you record a whole song that's like this it's played in reverse?
Yeah I've been doing this thing where I've been trying to expose phonetic reversal as a real thing
by making it so obvious by repeating what I'm saying backwards and forwards.
Because see it was Aleister Crowley that started and started doing reverse speech and popularized it.
And that's why it's associated with like heavy metal and Satanism because he was a
Satanist or at least he was like the leader.
For people listening who is Aleister Crowley?
Aleister Crowley was let's say Hitler was a envious of Crowley.
For he was crazy he did like a ton of black magic some really weird fucking shit.
Yeah so like who knows he's they said he was like the most influential man of the world.
Aleister Crowley?
At one point in time yeah.
There was a lot of musicians that would like rent his estate and record albums there after he died.
That's where Led Zeppelin recorded their album Jimmy Page.
Jimmy Page yeah.
Aleister Crowley's.
Yeah this guy was super crazy.
Huh but he's how I kind of figured out about who is the guy Freemasonry and Secret Society and
how relevant it really is.
Who was the guy who was in California who had like a church of Satan?
Anton LeVe.
Was he in any way related to this guy?
Probably knew this guy's books from words and backwards.
See and that's what's creepy is reverse speech was kind of created in a way to
affect people's minds without them being aware of it.
Right but I'm trying to expose it.
So I feel like reverse speech was created to how so.
Well our brains interpret speech and a message right.
Our brains interpret speech both forwards and backwards according to some of the stuff I've
been reading without us being conscious of it.
Well we are kind of well it's our subconscious so we're not yeah we're not consciously aware of it
but at the same time like we were talking about palindrones earlier.
Mom is a palindrome it's identical backwards and forwards.
Dad is phonetically backwards and forwards.
Right.
Hurt.
Boop.
Both.
Poop.
Um let's yeah they're spoke backwards and forwards but mom and dad actually work in
speech too so like.
Oh okay.
Mom dad dad mom.
Mom dad dad mom.
Sounds pretty close.
Yeah like you can kind of like manipulate it by listening and.
So you're saying popular cultural American songs have hidden messages in there that are
intended to brainwash people somehow.
Or maybe just send a message.
Or just be a secret message like if you listen to nirvana stuff backwards
hard shaped box.
Yeah but nobody listens to it backwards though.
A few years ago you could find all this reverse stuff online.
Yeah people used to play.
And it's been monetized now.
Like people actually made lyric videos so you could follow the lyrics.
Like one of the best songs backwards thriller.
Really.
Why dude.
Because the message he was trying to portray like he's like okay basically like I got a
new song I'm working on called pop music.
And this is the first time I'm going to try to use reverse speech where I'm not repeating
what I'm saying both ways.
And it's going to go like.
This is not.
Oh wait I'm singing it forwards instead of backwards.
Guess weem pop on say sith.
This is not.
Me.
What's that.
I was saying this is not work.
Wow that sounds creepy as hell.
Did you hear what it said.
This is not pop music.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm going to call the song pop music.
It's going to sound like this forwards.
Guess weem pop on say sith.
And then.
This is not.
What's that.
That's backwards.
So you're going to it's going to play normally but backwards.
So the way to hear it the correct way is that people reverse it.
Yeah.
That's some next level.
Sounds like nonsense forwards.
Sounds like nonsense forwards.
Right.
It sounds like.
Are there any popular songs like like that that Nirvana or anyone has done that sounds
complete bullshit like nothing forward and you have to play in reverse.
Like is there any proof that they were intentionally doing that.
That's what I noticed is a lot of Nirvana's lyrics are always hard for me to interpret.
I could barely hear what he's saying.
Half the words.
Well it's because he was fucked up.
Right.
No.
It's because you sing him backwards.
Really.
Here put on Nirvana backwards and you'll see what song what's the best what's the best song.
Oh that's a hard shape in bloom in bloom here and this is why it's the best one.
OK.
He says something in the lyrics backwards about the system being messed up or like screw up the
system and half the video is them playing in like this white collar kind of atmosphere.
And then half the video is them wearing dresses throwing them stuff on the stage around and
it happens to be a solar system.
So while he's singing backwards screw up the system.
Find the music video.
They're actually throwing the solar system around.
How do you want to hear reverse.
Oh yeah we gotta hear reverse.
They should have it with the video somewhere.
But even the guitar sounds attainable.
Yeah.
Well basically even if no one else is saying that they're doing it I'm saying I'm doing it.
You know what I mean.
Yeah.
And these are also that person's interpretation of the lyrics.
Right because it doesn't sound identical to what he's typing on.
No and sometimes people will make videos and they'll just write gibberish underneath it to
like kind of avoid even looking into it.
Yeah.
Because there were videos that were like two of two.
That's good.
But doesn't he almost sound.
Yeah it's almost clear.
Yeah some of his stuff forward isn't clear.
I'm sure drugs make it sound more clear.
Depending on what you're like if you take some some mushrooms or you smoke a lot of hot.
No no that's when I stopped doing all that.
Like once.
Yeah.
What.
Yeah.
What do you mean you stopped.
I don't know.
Once I figured out all those secret stuff it's like I don't need any of those drugs to
figure it out anymore.
I already figured it out like.
So that was like the vessel that got you there.
Yeah like I liked messing around with mushrooms a little bit but I only like really
micro dosing at any point.
Whenever I took more than that because I like to be in control of my body.
I like to be able to go running if I feel like it or something like that.
Like yeah.
How long was the first time you took mushrooms.
Oh.
I don't know when I was like 18 or 19.
Really.
Hanging with some friends were you there.
I might have been.
I might have been.
I've never taken them.
Oh no.
Never.
Oh yeah.
I think you were asking about that.
Yeah.
I don't know where to get them.
I do.
Oh OK.
But I've never taken them.
Did you take them a lot like through your through your teenage years and through your
20s.
No man really seldomly when I was younger.
I didn't start literally like.
Kind of messing around with it until I was an adult at home on my own.
Like yeah and I don't really like doing it around a lot of other people or anything.
Oh nobody does though right.
I don't know at all the pens.
And there's a certain movies that like you're going to be sitting there for four hours anyway.
Yeah.
Why not.
Yeah.
Go watch The Matrix with a microdose.
You're going to be like whoa really.
You're already going to be like whoa if you haven't seen it right right because it's a
mind bender for sure.
Yeah.
For sure.
Yeah.
We're supposed to get another one of those soon.
Yeah they said they're making another one.
Yeah.
Are they going to use Keanu Reeves again.
I heard he's coming back.
But they have to.
I think they're creating a new cast.
And Lawrence Fishburne.
I'm going to bring them back because like recycled Jesus.
Yeah.
Resurrected Jesus.
Yeah.
It's like what they did with Terminator.
Like they they recreated.
They basically like.
I don't know.
Morpheus is coming back.
Can you have The Matrix.
He's still a fucking FBI detective in every true crime show on TV.
He was in Contagion.
Was he really.
Yeah.
Actually the Contagion cast was stacked.
Really.
I'm going to re-watch that movie.
It's not even worth watching.
No.
You're living it right now.
Right.
COVID-19.
For real.
For real.
It's kind of a boring movie.
It was groundbreaking at the time because we weren't living through it.
Yeah.
Remember during all the fucking the civil rights riots in the streets a year ago.
When COVID was like the fourth thing on the news was like number four.
Yeah.
It was like the fourth most popular story.
I like how you called it civil rights riots.
But that's not the message anybody got across.
It was the George Floyd riots with all the cop cars burning people pouring
kerosene on abandoned cop cars and throwing bricks through windows.
Yeah.
That was the that was the pandemic.
Racism is the pandemic.
Is it already.
No.
That's what that's what the headlines were saying.
Oh yeah.
When all that was happening.
Yeah.
The headlines sharing a title like that just stirs up that kind of angst for sure.
Yeah.
The media's got us fooled.
Actually the term media was like supposed like an old spirit.
Yeah.
It's like associated with like a like a spirit.
Isn't really.
Yeah.
What kind of the spirit.
I don't know.
Or we know I'm just maybe I'm mixing it up television shows with reality now.
Do you ever find it hard to distinguish the difference between reality television television.
Not one little flavor flaves in the room.
You think we live in a simulation.
I hope so.
Because it's boring.
Maybe life's better outside the simulation.
You think trying to find out.
What are you going to do unplug it.
I'm ready to pull the fucking plug.
I pull the plug.
Yeah.
You play you got you brought your guitar.
Yeah I got some.
You got any new jams.
Maybe open your eyes.
That's a classic.
You don't.
I remember it but I don't remember it.
Can't perform it.
What could you perform for us man.
Got any new hits.
Yeah let's see what we got.
What's trending on the billboard right now for catatonic scripts.
Nothing's trending on the billboards.
What's trending on the billboards right now is Mars Volta.
Really.
Yeah dude they finally released the Laos in the conventorium on vinyl.
And it's like number one or number two on the vinyl billboard charts.
Like really.
Yeah.
I haven't heard of Mars Volta in 10 years I feel like.
Probably more.
See I listen to a lot of their that band's off shoots.
They have like 20 other bands.
That's where I got my idea of like making a new band every week.
Is it.
What the fuck's that guy's name.
It's in Mars.
The guy who made the documentary about suing the record label.
What's the fucking guy's name.
Because they were.
The guy who played the Joker and he's also in a band.
30 30 seconds to Mars.
I'm thinking of 30 seconds.
Jared Leto.
Jared Leto.
Yeah yeah.
I was getting 30 seconds to Mars and Mars Volta mixed up.
The Joker.
Yeah he was the Joker.
That was the worst Joker of all time for sure.
Well did you see him in the Snyder's cut.
That one wasn't too bad.
No.
Angle that mic towards your guitar.
There you go.
All right man.
What is this song.
I don't know.
I gotta think about which one.
You do a just focus.
I can give you a sample of that one we did or that song.
One of the phrases that I showed you on the reverse thing.
Okay.
This song is called blood in the water.
It's trying to use like color symbolism.
There it goes.
Oh that's not it.
Hold on.
Take a sit.
Lube up the vocal chords.
This one's called blood in the water.
Yeah.
White ass snow, black ass crow.
Now they're pouring blood all over your homes.
White ass snow, black ass crow.
Now they're pouring blood all over your homes.
Smaller your book, law, dull, mural,
praff, one works at cow.
One's that ill.
Smaller your book, law, dull,
mural, praff, one works at cow.
One's that ill.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
Violet equals violets.
Smell, love, soul, key, l, love.
Violet equals violets.
Smell, love, soul, key, l, love.
Violet equals violets.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
Violet equals violets.
Smell, love, soul, key, l, love.
Violet equals violets.
Smell, love, soul, key, l, love.
Violet equals violets.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
Blood in the water.
Hurdle when they dull.
White-ass snow, black-ass crow.
Now they're pouring blood all over your homes.
White-ass snow, black-ass crow.
Now they're pouring blood all over your homes.
Hell yeah.
What's that song called?
Blood in the water.
Blood in the water.
That's dope, bro.
What is that about?
Hell yeah.
What's up, world?
You just watched a clip from one of our exclusive Patreon episodes.
That's right, you can get weekly, pure, uncut content
straight from the jungles of Colombia.
If you want to watch the full episode,
make sure you go to patreon.com slash concretevideos.
Peace.
