So listen, Jesus, God Almighty.
So listen, I got a kid named, hang on, let's, let's, let's bless the podcast.
It's wet in there.
Something's wrong with you two.
That's horrible.
We're from Florida.
That's horrible.
I'm from Florida.
What is going on with you guys?
We've done some shit.
So you can tell we've done some shit.
It's horrible.
It's horrible.
My eyes are watered.
About to start watering.
Mine are watering.
Wow, that was the worst one I ever did.
Did it hit your eyes?
It hit me.
Did it get your eyes?
Oh, yeah.
That's the worst one to get your eyes, bro.
My eyes were burning for like two days after I did it at Bubba's place.
That's a fresh match.
Don't get it mixed up.
It's Russian roulette right here, bud.
Some people are telling me that you, I have you on here too much.
Is that true?
I mean, I think for every one of those guys, there's 10 guys saying you should have me
on here more.
Yeah, that is true.
That's probably true.
Even Bubba said that you're on here a little bit too much.
I'm fed.
He did.
I'm fed.
Have you heard from him?
Yeah.
I'll talk to him in a couple of days.
Oh, okay.
He was supposed to hit up Colby.
Did he hit him up?
Um, yeah.
He did.
Mmm.
Yeah.
Okay, good.
I hope it's going to work out.
This is not like it's going to be, uh, I don't know.
I didn't really ask, are you going to go back on the show or not back?
Are you going to go on a show?
Yeah.
Has he called you at all?
No.
I'm sure.
I heard you when they called me that day.
How was it that one day when we called you live on from his studio, when I had him
call you?
Uh, how?
What do you mean?
Like you made a whole video about it, right?
Like you weren't expecting us to call you live on his radio show.
Yesterday.
Yeah.
I saw the screenshot popped up on my YouTube page, but I haven't watched it yet.
Yeah.
Basically, I explained Bubba's situation for people that don't know who he was and
who he is and the whole code.
And then I say, you know, I went on the show, there was an issue, I got a call.
And then I said, and then Danny went on a show and then I said, and they just called
me.
And then I said, I'm going to play the video.
And then I play the video where I'm sitting there going, okay, and we're going back and
forth.
It was like 38 minutes.
Yeah.
It was a long time.
Yeah.
I mean, me, I, to eight minutes was me explaining who he is.
Because my guys don't know.
I can't believe you fucking outed that, that doctor.
What was I supposed to say?
What did you say about him?
But what was I supposed to say?
I gave him.
I didn't do it.
I mean, you're right.
He must have not known that you were going to say that.
Oh, Bubba had no idea.
He had no clue.
Well, Bubba.
So he never told him in the first place.
No.
No.
The guy said, I don't want him on the show again.
Right.
And he didn't tell me.
And Bubba just went, yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
And said, I'll never have him on again.
Great.
Okay.
You think he's really like that?
I don't think.
Do you think he's really like straight up bitch boy like that?
Or do you think?
Do you think he's really, they got him by the balls like that?
Listen, prior to, so here's what I didn't say.
I don't think they have him by the balls.
Prior to that second episode, I had done the first episode, Bubba asked me to, you know,
we went out back, we talked for a while, then he called me several times.
And he asked me, look, would you consider coming on the podcast?
Would you consider helping me with YouTube?
And then we'll cut up the videos and I'll give you half of the revenue from all the
YouTube that comes in and I'll bring you on the show.
You'll be a regular.
We'll come on Tuesdays and Thursdays and I'll give you this much money.
And out like, he was pushing hard.
I was like, I don't know.
Let me think about it.
I'm not sure.
Cause I got Jess the whole time saying, I don't trust this guy.
I'm telling you, she's like, he's sleazy.
There's something wrong with him.
He's burnt every bridge he's ever fucking had.
If you look into him.
So I'm like, I don't, I know, but what's the big deal?
He's going to pay me, you know, it'll help me.
I can start a channel cause I didn't really have a channel then.
I can start a channel.
It'll help me kind of garner subscribers and so I had this whole conversation.
And then I was like, I don't know, just, you know, let me think about it.
Let me see.
I went on the show the next day.
That whole thing happened, right?
And then as I can't, you know, I got, but as soon as I got home, I got the text from
Bubba.
Boom.
Hey.
Sorry, bro.
It doesn't look like it's going to work out.
Really?
And I was, he was like, yeah, it's not going to work out.
And I go, um, I have a feeling it has something to do with the Diacos.
He goes, yeah, bro, it does have something to do with the Diacos.
I don't want to get into it.
Good luck.
Like that's it.
Like this is the guy who's blowing up my text for a week.
Gone.
Diaco said, boom.
Yeah.
He said, yes, sir.
And didn't even ask why.
Like it, let's say there was somebody who said, let's say I was like, Hey, Danny, I'm
going to have, can I say Ben Moa?
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't know.
He'll beep it out if you can.
I'm going to have so and so on my, on my program, right?
And you said, and I said, yeah, Danny, I'm going to have him on my, yeah, he's going
to come.
It's cool.
We're going to do like a two hour thing.
And Danny, and then Danny were to say, yeah, bro, I really don't want you to do that.
If I were to say, okay, yeah, that's cool.
But you know what I wouldn't do?
I wouldn't say, okay, Danny, you're right.
You said so.
That's good.
And never ask why, unless I basically worked for you.
Like if you just said, I said no, and it's no, okay, man.
Yeah, bro.
Cool.
Cool.
That's the relationship we would have to have for me to not say why I'll think about
it, Danny.
We'll talk about it.
But why you need to have a good reason.
Now, if you had a good reason, okay, but Bubba never asked.
No, he never asked.
He just said, yes, sir, yes, sir.
Like to me, I don't know about you, but that says something about our relationship.
You know, the one person's 100% in control.
That's weird.
You don't even get to question it.
That's so weird.
I just find it hard.
I just don't see it.
I mean, I understand what you're saying makes total sense, but I just don't see that dynamic
between them.
I don't see him answering to somebody like that as far as content.
Like why would they?
Why would they fucking choke him out and stifle any sort of possibility for success by having
you on there just because of some, some personal fucking petty shit like that.
Absolutely petty.
Like, you know, and this is the thing too, like, like I said, if I had been given instructions
like, Hey, bro, we're going to do this, we're going to do that, but, but it was never like
that.
It was like, okay, you're sitting down here.
You know, we're going to, you know, okay, you've, you've ever seen the show?
Not really.
Not recently.
Not in 25 years.
So Diaco is like the Peter teal of Tampa.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
The nice segue.
Did you watch that documentary?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I've watched it before.
Oh, have you?
I didn't realize I had watched it before.
I had watched it, I want to say a couple of years ago because all of that was very familiar
to me.
How old is the documentary?
2017.
Okay.
So I have watched because when I was watching it, I was like, I was like, Oh wait, didn't
this person buy this paper?
Oh wait, wasn't he?
So I knew I'd see, as I was watching it, I was like, I know I've seen this before for
some reason.
But yeah.
And I knew the whole thing as I was watching it.
I definitely saw it before.
I just didn't know how long ago.
What was your take on the whole documentary?
I mean, I know you're, it was called, by the way, it's called nobody speak.
Right.
I wish I would have seen that before I talked to Bubba.
Well, I know your take is, you know, that there's these billionaires behind the scene
that are helping, that are basically stifling free, free press, right?
Yeah.
So that's part.
But you mean, or do you mean just the, the Hulk Hogan thing?
No, no, no, no.
I'm talking about the whole overarching theme of it, not just the Hulk Hogan.
The Hulk Hogan thing is great.
A great part of it because it kind of sets up, sets it up and it kind of is like a great
kind of like click baby thing for the documentary, like it makes sense to draw more attention
to it.
Right.
And it's kind of like the catalyst, which sets it off, but like the overarching theme
of these crazy overlord billionaires who are trying to control the free press.
He's got great, it's like, what was, what was the Bozak was the dark, the dark something
of credit cards?
My name is Dark Lord of credit cards.
Yeah.
I mean, some of them are just like, anyway, yeah, I mean, what do I think, you know, it's
funny because to me, that's something that like you have, you know, special interest
groups, right?
Like lobbyists and stuff that do that all the time for, for laws and it's not illegal.
Like what they did wasn't illegal, but they also bought that one guy who bought the newspaper.
It was a small, local town newspaper.
It wasn't massive.
He didn't change.
He didn't know that was the, I think that was the biggest newspaper in Las Vegas.
It's Las Vegas though.
It's not like it's massive and even so you didn't buy them all.
That guy's name was Sheldon Adelson, the richest man in Vegas, the richest casino owner in
Vegas.
He just died last year.
Then they're back to printing whatever they want.
But he was trying to hide the fact that he bought that newspaper, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He didn't not want anybody to know that.
Yeah.
He did a horrible job.
Yeah.
Like I'm going to have my, my son-in-law is going to, your son, like obviously we know
that you're involved.
Yeah.
You have all the money.
My son-in-law runs some, some whatever he ran for him, I'm sure.
The Peter Teal Gawker thing is Peter Teal didn't hide from that at all.
He was like, yeah.
Oh, he came out like the next day.
That's right.
Let him know.
I like that.
What did he do?
Yeah.
That's kind of, that's kind of gangster.
I like the way Peter Teal did it because fuck Gawker.
I mean, Gawker was kind of just like, they were, they were just like grenade throwers.
You know what I mean?
They weren't really like doing any meaningful journalism.
They were just doing like tabloid grenade throwing.
They had, they had come out with some stuff before everybody else came because they required
less.
It was, they were less, you know, there was less scrutiny in their underwrite, or underwriting
in their, you know, in their journalism, like they didn't require all these different people
to verify the story.
So they heard about something.
They said, sounds credible.
Run with it.
As opposed to someone like the New York Times is like, Leah, we need two different sources.
We need someone with inside the, the administration.
Like they're not running with just anything.
Gawker was running.
And on a few occasions, it was a big story, like, oh my God, we blew it first.
Yeah.
Because you have no standards.
Right.
You know, so yeah, they didn't knocking out Gawker wasn't a big deal.
And Gawker, look, as far as, as far as your, your, you know, you having a right to privacy.
Like you do have a right to privacy.
Like you're, you're in someone's house and they're videoing you and then they sell the,
the video.
Like I'm not in public, bro.
Like you need my permission to video me and sell it.
Like you can't just do that.
Like I get it.
If we're in public and you're videoing me, like we're in public.
Everybody can see this.
We're in public.
You can, you can video me and sell it.
That's news.
But yeah, this dude's in his house and, you know, banging his wife like it's the whole
another fucking weird.
And he clearly didn't even know he was being filmed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a whole weird issue.
And, and the crazy part is he picked Bubba only had to pay him five grand.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How weird is that?
The whole thing.
The whole, you know what I really liked about it.
Odd.
You know, the thing about the documentary is they like, they were really kind of dumb.
Some parts of it were pretty dumb to me.
Like the people they were interviewing were talking about the, how the lawsuit was structured
with Hulk's legal team versus Gawker and the people that were interviewing people that
worked at Gawker and they were like, we knew something was really, really fishy and not
right when they removed one of the charges for psychological distress or mental distress.
They removed it because Gawker's insurance policy for lawsuits would no longer cover
them if that was not part of the lawsuit.
So they're like, so this was really weird.
Like that's not normal.
That's, of course that's normal in a lawsuit because now you're, you don't want your, you
don't want the person you're suing to have money.
Could the point that all lawsuits, especially those kinds of civil suits, the point of those
lawsuits is to fucking run them out of money.
Right.
Because you're not going to win.
It's a fucking, it's a pony show.
I think what they were saying was the way I understood it was if they did win, the insurance
company would pay the, the verdict.
If they removed the insurance company, then Gawker's owners were liable.
They could bankrupt the company and they could go after the owners.
It, that's not what I got from it.
What I got from it was that they had an insurance, they had a corporate insurance policy that
covered the expense of lawsuits like that.
So it would pay for the lawyers and the, and the, if they won and the suit, if they are
the, the verdict.
I don't know about the, I don't know how that, I don't know, even if, even if they did win,
I think even if Gawker did win, I don't think they would have gotten any sort of money from
that.
I think they just would have won.
It would have been a wash because they weren't, they weren't countersuing, right?
They were just defending themselves.
They weren't the plaintiffs.
They were just defending themselves.
So they just, their insurance policy was just going to cover their legal fees for their
lawyers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And if they, if they removed that part of the lawsuit, then now their insurance company
has an out.
They don't have to, they don't have to cover their expenses anymore.
See, I was thinking that if they lost, our insurance company would pay whatever the,
you know, whatever the damages were.
Like if it was a hundred million, then now the insurance company has to pay, and I'm
sure there's a cap like of 20 million.
It would have.
Right.
And they would say, Hey, I want to have them removed so that they cannot contribute because
we want to make sure we hurt Gawker.
Right.
Like that's the way I took it.
You see what I'm saying?
Like it was personal.
It was personal.
I don't want your insurance to bail you out.
I want to make sure I bankrupt you.
Right.
But still you have a way better chance of winning.
So if you don't remove that piece of the, of the lawsuit and you, they have insurance
now covering their expenses, you're going to go for a bigger pot, a bigger pot of money,
but you have a smaller chance of winning because they have unlimited funds now, but
it's up for their lawyers to fight you, for their lawyers to fight you.
If you remove that little piece of it, now they have the guy that owns Gawker, wasn't
he worth millions?
Anyway, like how much is he going to pay out of his pocket versus out of an insurance
policy?
I don't know.
You're right.
The insurance policy is probably going to pay a lot more.
Yeah.
Cause they, cause especially if they're liable for, if they lose, like when we're going to
dump a bunch of money, cause if we lose, we're going to get hit for a hundred million.
Right.
Exactly.
That's the whole way of thinking.
They're, they're fucking on their heels now if they're paying it out of their own pocket.
So you're going to, you're going to win a, a smaller amount of money, but you're going
to have a way greater chance of winning that lawsuit because you're going to fucking run
them out of money.
Yeah.
They have, they have, they have less, um, less ability to, to amount to defense, but
either way they, he ended up winning and got a hundred and fifteen million if he got
a hundred and fifteen million.
He didn't.
Bubba even said, he's like, when it all shook out after they paid the fees, paid the lawyers,
the bubble of the law probably got like 20 or 30.
I mean, 30, that's not bad.
Yeah.
Right.
No, that ain't bad.
Um, yeah, I, I, and then he, then he turned around and he sued Cox media.
That was the bigger one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Then he's like, he sued like 70 out of Cox.
He sued somebody else and got like 40.
He got another hundred and 10.
Who else was it?
I forget the second one that he, he sued Cox media and then another company like, I don't
know who these, like Warner or ABC or CBS or something, someone else, he sued them too.
Bam.
They paid him too.
So he's got like, that's probably one of the best things that ever happened to him.
Yeah.
That was a big payday.
Yeah.
That was a big chunk.
Yeah.
What a life, man.
What a roller coaster of a life.
He went straight from his divorce where he was like ready to kill himself and blow his
brains out to that.
Yeah.
Well.
And the FBI sting that was at the sand pearl, how they had the FBI sting get set up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's, that's a nut.
This dude lives, some of these guys who live these lives that you're just like, like, you
know, the average guy, you know, he goes to high school, maybe he goes to college, maybe
just gets a, some kind of a, a technical degree, or maybe he just gets into some kind of a
field and he kind of stays in that field and he does okay or, or does really well, whatever.
You know, he goes on, he meets a girl and they get married and they have a two kids
and he teaches soccer and he just, he has just like a regular life and they go on vacation.
Like that guy listening to someone like Hulk Hogan's life or Bubba's life or it's like
bizarre, they're like, what's, you did what?
Like they, like that 99% of people kind of follow that.
I graduated high school.
I got a job.
I married the girl that I'm in love with.
I had kids, you know, so they hear someone like, like, or even like, even that guy, I
just told you, the guy we were talking about earlier that I wanted, I said, you should
have on the program, the guy, Johnny Walker, like you listened to this guy's life and you're
like, this is bizarre.
Like everything about this guy's life is insane.
I mean, you've done things that I would have never done and I'll do some crazy shit.
Like, I mean, like, it's just like, wow, it's like, how did you think that that was acceptable
or was going to work?
And then it did work.
Same thing with like Hulk Hogan.
Like you're going to, I'm going to be a wrestler.
Like, well, how did you come up with that?
And how'd you think you could make money at that?
And how did you think, or even Bubba, well, I kind of like this.
And I talked about this.
And then I got on the radio, buddy had radio show and I got on the radio show.
And then, you know, it's like, how did that work out?
Like some of these guys' lives are just fucking insane.
Yeah.
Bubba was living large at one point.
Oh, at one point.
Yeah.
Did you listen to him back then?
Oh, of course, in your head, listen, here's what's funny.
I never mentioned this.
Um, and I was thinking about the other day, I was driving down Fowler one time.
This was when I was maybe 20, 21 years old.
And there was this, there was like a, I don't know, it was like a huge SUV.
And there was a hot, hot chick who was walking out of like a 7-Eleven or
something with some food or something.
And there was this big fat guy pumping gas into the, this huge SUV.
And I think it was like when the escalades had first come out or something,
something when they were really big.
And it's one of my buddies like, bro, that's Bubba the love spawned.
That's Bubba.
I was like, no, they look at the chick, you know, that's him.
He's fucking, he like made a ton of money.
They're like, look at that chick.
Look at him.
I was like, that is Bubba love.
So I had to be him.
Like he was dating these women that were phenomenal looking and he was porn stars.
Yeah.
It was overweight.
He's driving this amazing car.
And it was like, and then of course I did listen to him.
He was always, you know, it's the whole shock, jockey.
I didn't realize it, but on the documentary, they said he burned the
Koran.
He threatened to burn.
Oh, he threatened to burn the Koran on the radio.
Yeah.
He ran for sheriff.
The CIA.
Huh.
Yeah.
The CIA had to go through somebody to get to Bubba in order to say,
this is a national security issue.
We're asking not to do it.
Like that's how big of a fucking deal he was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, and then one time, I guess they killed a pig or something.
They put him on trial.
That was a big one.
Yeah.
Um, what was the other one that he did?
Like, oh, he ran for sheriff.
He went on time.
He ran for sheriff or like Polk or something like that.
Probably some, I forget which county, but yeah, he, he, I was, yeah, I want to
say he had, did he legally get his name changed?
Yeah, he did.
Yeah.
So that it would say Bubba the love sponge or something like that.
He got it illegally changed.
Right.
It's legally Bubba the love sponge.
Yeah.
Because I was licensed.
Right.
Because when, when the, I think it's because when it was on the ballot, he
wanted it to say Bubba the love sponge.
Like not, you know, nobody's going to know who, you know, his real name.
Yeah.
Nobody's going to know that.
Close your eyes when you do it.
This is insane.
What's wrong with you guys?
Just close your eyes.
But like, what's wrong with you guys?
Sometimes, uh, you need a little something extra.
It is get you going, man.
I need a jar, a jar of that in the car.
Sometimes drive in long distance.
Yeah.
The, that documentary was good, but it was like weird though.
Towards the end, they kept talking about like, you know, the, the media doesn't
lie for the press is the, you know, some of the, why would you say such
and terrible things about CNN?
Like CNN, they held them, they held the media out.
Like they were just above reproach and they didn't have an agenda.
It was just like, come on, man, stop, stop.
Yeah.
That part of it kind of lost me.
Yeah.
They, they, and then they played the music.
They, they gave, there was music in the background when they were given their
little speech about how, how clean and, and, and righteous they were.
It was just like, I'll just the media is stop it, bro.
You, you had me up and they were showing Brian Stelter, like he, Brian Stelter's
the poster child for truth and media.
It was, it was bad.
It was ridiculous.
And it's so funny too.
Cause they were really hammered and Trump was president then.
So obviously they were hammering away at him hammering.
Oh, they were shitting on Trump.
Yeah.
Like he's just, he's Peter Thiel for supporting Trump.
Peter Thiel is a fucking right wing bigot, even though he's gay.
He's a weird dude though.
Have you seen the like of the way he walks?
He, you know, it's a very weird gate.
Is that the word for it when you walk?
Yeah.
Yeah, but you know, yeah, absolutely.
The problem is with all of those guys, um, Boziak and I were talking about it.
Like you ever know, like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, like Teal, like
Musk, Musk, they're all awkward.
Yeah.
They're, it's like they're on the spectrum of autism.
You know, there's somewhere on that spectrum, you know, there's like, you
saw how, how he talked Teal.
He was, he was very, very odd.
He might be the weirdest out of all of them.
Yeah.
No, absolutely.
But I wasn't really aware of that because he's not so much in the, in the
spotlight as the other guys are.
Well, yeah.
Well, I didn't realize it until I saw that video.
When he started talking and trying to explain something.
I was like, Oh, wow.
Yeah, you're, there's something missing.
So, and he does not, he apparently holds grudges like I mean, he was fucking.
Well, imagine if you were him though, imagine if you were him, you were a
billionaire, you had all, you had done all this and then some fucking fly by
night, Gawker website says, Matt, like you're Matt Cox, is Peter Teal.
Matt Cox is gay or something.
Matt Cox is totally gay.
That was the headline.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Is he gay though?
Yeah, he's right.
Okay.
So, and you hadn't told anyone, like it was a secret thing.
Only his family and his like close, close friends knew.
Right.
And then they just, they did that.
That would kind of like, like, it, it does.
It, it feels like it's an evasion of, it feels like it's an evasion of my
privacy.
Yeah, definitely.
I, I, it's a big thing to out for the first time to like, to put you on
public spotlight for that.
I, I agree.
I don't understand how he held a grudge.
I can, but I can't imagine spending the 10s and or 20 or 30 million dollars
that he spent backing all of these guys.
Yeah, I guess it's nothing.
It's pocket change.
Four billion dollars is like, uh, 200 grand is like $20.
Yeah, you say that, but rich people don't like to lose money.
Like they didn't get rich because you're okay with losing money.
Like, you know, nobody wants to lose.
Nobody wants to lose.
They're all different.
Yeah.
Some of them like, some of them have more risk aversion than others.
Yeah.
Or more, what is it, immune to risk?
No, risk aversion.
Okay.
That works.
Um, anyways, a good, it was, it was definitely a good, definitely a good, uh,
documentary.
I think I don't really know much about him, but I want to learn more about him.
Cause he seems like a fucking creepy dude.
I just did a podcast with a guy named Barrett Brown, who is a former member of
anonymous, anonymous, the guys who like, they, they put the mask on their face.
And they talk about shit on the internet.
They call, they call it politicians and stuff.
Um, he, uh, he wrote a whole thing about Peter Thiel.
And he's like studied a lot about Peter Thiel.
And he talked about like how, um, his company Palantir, um, is like this face,
this facial recognition company.
They have, they have AI software that tracks you by face, by your face, by your
retinas and stuff like that.
And, uh, their, their biggest contract was with in Q-Tel, the CIA's investment arm.
Right.
So it said that in the documentary.
Right.
And this guy, Barrett Brown did this like whole crazy deep dive on him and how he,
there's this thing called dark enlightenment that he wrote about.
Okay.
I don't know.
Very, very like dark, dark shit.
He says that he's basically, um, would you get this guy?
This guy was recommended to me on Twitter.
And he's, he's actually, he can't come to the U S right now.
He went to prison for four years.
He did prison for four years for what the fuck did he do?
He got fucked by the FBI.
The FBI fucked him for four years because, uh, he wrote for, I think he wrote,
he was a journalist for, imagine what Thiel's going to do with you.
What is Glenn Greenwald's, uh, publication called anyways, he wrote for,
he wrote for that magazine and, uh, or that website.
And, um, he wrote some shit and got in trouble cause he, oh, he leaked information
on an anonymous thread, an anonymous form, uh, about some of the information for
the employees of a company called HB Gary, which is another intelligence
contractor.
Okay.
So like, uh, you know, like the military industrial complex, they will
contract private military companies, send them overseas.
This is a company that gets contracted by the government for intelligence
similar to Palantir and it was called HB Gary.
And they were like, somehow contracted to spy on Americans for something.
And, and they were trying to out those people.
And because he outed some people who worked for HB Gary, the FBI sent him to
prison.
He got it fucked for four years.
They, he originally got sentenced to 105 years, but he somehow got out after four
years in Texas.
I don't know.
That's some kind of, so what they hit him with some kind of espionage or something
like that.
Espionage, can you pull up, can you pull up, uh, Barrett Brown's like, well, I'm
saying, I'm wondering what's the charge.
Yeah.
What's the charge?
We're going to find out right now.
We got a Barrett, Barrett Brown, gotta be espionage or something.
Espionage is like when you spy, steal stuff, right?
But so it's gotta be some info.
Yeah.
It's something to do with like national security or something.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
So the FBI raided his mom's house and then they charged his mom because his
mom hid one of his laptops.
They charged his mom with, um, obstruction, obstruction of justice.
Yep.
Yep.
And then he went on his YouTube channel and he said something about, I know this
FBI agent who's look, who's spying on me right now and tapping my phone lines.
If he ever comes around me again, him and his whole family will, you know, uh,
what are you doing?
Yeah.
That's that, that's what we're doing.
You threaten the life of an FBI.
Exactly.
On YouTube, federal officer, obstruction of justice.
That's what they originally nailed it after the fact.
That was bright.
900,000 to Stratford in restitution.
What is Stratford?
Stratford is another one of those intelligence agencies.
And instead of using the, the NSA, they just outsource it to some other company,
like a private, like Callenter or HB Gary, that what can, can get around, uh,
not spying on Americans, right?
Like, well, they can, we get that.
We can't, we can't do it, but you can do it.
Right.
Exactly.
It's like, uh,
I don't know what you find.
It's like, uh, what was it?
The, um, like the, the, the higher, like black water to go and kidnap some guy
in another country and then show up on American soil and then call the DEA.
Hey, we're at the airport.
We have so and so you've been looking for him.
Really?
They come and they grab the guy and give him a check for $250,000 and take them away.
So this guy was saying that, uh, he fucking hates Elon Musk.
He goes, everyone thinks Elon Musk is this big shining star.
It's going to save the world.
If he buys Twitter, let me tell you something.
There is no way Elon Musk is not sitting in Peter Thiel's lap and Peter Thiel
is fucking side by side with him when he's trying to buy Twitter and Peter
Thiel's the guy who owns Palinter and is trying to control the fucking world
with all this dark conspiracy shit.
Basically saying if, if Elon does buy Twitter, it's basically Peter Thiel
owns Twitter and we're fucked.
So what, what was this, uh, um, this was, uh, like a zoom zoom.
Yeah, yeah.
He's in England right now.
And he actually, I think he got arrested again in England for saying he had
this sign, his mom again.
No, pull up, pull up, uh, Barrett Brown, arrest in England.
He was in the middle of a riot or one of those like BLM type riots.
And he was holding a giant wooden sign that spray painted, said kill cops.
This guy can't learn.
Listen, no, man, dude, he's just got, he's got some sort of like
complex where he just wants to fucking stir shit up.
He wants to throw grenades.
And I love these guys who were like, yeah, I think there should be no
government and the government should really.
So the other countries that have governments and armies are just going
to roll in here and nobody's going to stop them.
Well, we've got our guns.
So stop, stop, bro.
Come on.
You need, you need some government here.
Yeah.
What are you doing?
Yeah.
That, oh, that's what you have.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a bad idea.
It's a bad idea.
That's not a great idea.
Not a good one.
No.
Especially after just that's him right there in the picture, him wearing the
tie, you would think, especially after just doing time, just doing time in the
Fed, yeah, like, did he do the four years in the Fed?
Yeah, he did.
He's an interesting fella.
Looks like he's 16.
He does in that picture.
That was like right when he got out, I think right before he went in, maybe.
But if he came back on US soil, he'd get fucked.
So that's why he's not here.
Oh, yeah.
Listen, if they want to get you, they're going to get you.
They're going to find something, everybody's doing something.
Yeah, they're not going to get him when he's in England.
No.
Well, I don't know.
England's basically like South Carolina, right?
I mean, it's basically, they grab them and say, send them over here.
They'll probably send them over here.
Well, they still haven't even extra died at Julien Assange, have they?
Well, yeah, but he's in Russia.
That's Edward Snowden.
Oh, Snowden.
Julien Assange is in, I think he's in the UK.
Oh, is he?
Yeah.
Is he?
Yeah.
Julien Assange is in an embassy.
He's in the UK embassy, I think.
I mean, they're trying to, they're trying to extradite him here.
So he's in the, he's in the United Kingdom embassy in the United Kingdom.
You might need to verify that, Jordan.
I thought they got him, no.
Julien Assange.
It's the latest on Julien Assange.
It's the latest on Julien Assange.
I thought he, I thought they locked him up.
Julien Assange, I can't say it.
Assange.
Assange.
This guy also was, worked closely with Julien Assange.
The guy Barrett, he worked really closely with Julien Assange.
And, you're going to get, listen, I'm just saying.
They're coming.
Peter's watching.
Peter's watching.
Yeah, you didn't, I mean, I'm all for free press, but, you know, you've got a kid.
You need to talk, you start, you're passing some of this stuff by your wife.
Julien Assange, I think he's locked up.
Well, yeah, he's in an embassy, locked up in an embassy, I think.
Where is Julien Assange right now?
It says he's, says he's confined in Bell Marsha category, a prison.
In London.
And he's probably fighting extradition.
Well, that's 2019.
Where is Julien Assange now in 2022?
There he is.
What's a class A prison, man?
Like a decent prison, a good one?
I don't know what a class A prison.
I don't know what a class, like what, that would, to me.
Type in where is Julien Assange in 2022?
It's the Hilton.
I was going to say it sounds like, it sounds like it would be a nice prison.
There it is.
Now, like a four star prison.
Assange has been confined since 2019.
Okay, well that's in the UK though.
I was halfway right.
And they're trying to extradition.
Oh yeah, they're trying hard.
And he's fighting.
You know, so, so one of the problems with, with extraditing, I've known a couple
guys that have been extradited from, um, the UK is that, so, is that it, one, if you,
you have to basically go to them and say, look, here's, here's the evidence we have.
Like we've been died of this person.
He's a US citizen, uh, or, or he's, let's say that you have dual citizenship.
Um, or you're one of your, one of your citizens in some cases.
So he broke the law in the United States.
We want to extradite him.
Here's the evidence.
And we'd like him to come over here and have to face prosecution.
The problem is, is that is a lot of times they'll say, okay, well, that makes sense.
Like your evidence looks pretty strong.
We get it.
You didn't indict him.
Sounds like he may have done this.
He will send them over there.
The problem is, is most of the times when it goes awry, is when the US comes
and says something like, we want to extradite him.
And you know, if he's found guilty, you know, we're going to execute him.
They're like, yeah, we're not sending one of our citizens to your country to be executed.
So then that it's like, okay, well, then we'll take that off the table.
Okay.
Yeah.
But if he's found guilty, then he has to get what life?
Yeah.
Yes.
So life based on the evidence that you guys have, we wouldn't give him life for that.
So we're not also not going to send them there.
Damn it.
Okay.
So, so you have to start negotiating with them because they're like, our laws are so strict.
And I, I knew one guy that was spoke that he had actually come over here.
He listened.
I think he ran a scam.
Like he was trying to tell us it wasn't this game.
Stop it.
It's a scam.
Like, I love how you do that.
Stop it.
Yeah.
It's, it's, you know, no, you don't understand.
We do do.
Okay.
The moment you start billing people more than they're supposed to be billed for years and
you make, you guys made an extra half a million dollars or a million dollars.
Right.
Yeah.
But you know, they saw what the bill, stop, stop, stop, don't, don't try that shit.
Like you, you weren't supposed to be billing them the extra 12 bucks.
You billed them for three, for five years, a hundred thousand people.
You guys made X amount of dollars.
It was a scam.
So, but once it all collapsed, this guy took off.
He went to England because he had dual citizenship.
So it goes to England a couple of years later, he brings like one of his kids into
the embassy to get like, you have to give them like, you have to sign something in
the embassy so that they could also be an American, an American and he went in and
when he went in, they said, Hey, by the way, you have a warrant against you from
the United States.
He was like, what?
He said, he kind of knew it might have happened, but nobody had ever said
anything and it had been years.
So they eventually, they grab him, they let him right back out.
And when they let him back out, like he was in custody because he,
he had to call in once a week.
Like their custody and our custody is way different.
So he was like, I was confined to my house and work and grocery shopping and
going, you know, bringing my kids to school.
Yeah.
And yeah, exactly.
It was ridiculous.
I was like, you're free.
He's like, I know, but they call it because, but once a week I had to call.
I'm like, but you weren't allowed to leave like, like England.
He's like, well, you could if you called.
I was like, what?
He's like, well, you know, it's the, you know, it's the, whatever it's the, you
know, they all signed a treaty, right?
Whatever the, the European Union is like, you know, it's basically their
States, right?
So anyway, the point is, is that when they got in front of the judge and they
started arguing, they were like, okay, well, these, these are fraud charges.
And we agree you've got some evidence and they were like, yeah.
And, and this is very serious.
He could get a 30 years for this and he, and they were going on and on and
immediately his lawyer stepped in and went, your honor, this is fraud charges
for a million dollars.
They want to give him 30 years.
And the judge was like, yeah, well, we're not sending him back there.
What are you doing?
You're going to give him 30 years, like, get backfired on him right away.
Like they, like the U S is like, yeah, we're, this is serious.
Like they, and they thought that meant they go, oh, this is serious.
Give, let, you got to go.
Instead they went, oh no, no, we're not sending one of our citizens to get 30
years for something that over here, if he was found guilty, he'd get 18 months.
You know, nine of which he'd be able to do in his living room on an ankle
monitor, like no way.
So they had to negotiate and they negotiated like 24 months.
And then he flew over there.
He flew over to the U S went in for 24 months to the low, met me.
That's where I heard the story.
Oh, wow.
So I mean, it's not always, you know, you have to have a, you know, and it has
to be a comparable charge.
Like if they don't have a comparable charge over there, they're like, he did
what he did this and this and this.
And they're like, yeah, that's not illegal over here.
Yeah.
Like, you know, a lot of, a lot of countries don't have conspiracy charges.
So you're like, no, you don't understand.
He did this and this and this and it's conspiracy.
Yeah, but he didn't rob the bank.
Yes.
But he was in the room when they talked about robbing the bank and he helped
plan it, but he didn't go in the bank.
He didn't drive the getaway car.
He didn't give them weapons.
He was just in the room talking saying, Oh yeah, you got to watch out for this.
Right.
Yeah, it's conspiracy.
Yeah, we don't, that's not a thing here.
Like you can be in the room.
You can, you can even help out a little bit.
Planning like this is not a, he didn't pay anything.
He didn't make any money just cause he was there.
Like to us, but what would happen to him if he was in China?
Well, in China, they just take them all out back and shoot them in the head.
Execute.
Yeah.
Well, did you see a Boziak and I did a, uh, we did a video where these two bank
employees had, this is in the bank of China.
Well, not the bank of China.
It was a bank in China.
They basically were, they were the vault managers and they took the, took cash on
hand and they took some cash.
One of them took some cash went and gambled on the lottery.
The problem was he won.
Nice.
He took like $200,000 and he won like $350,000.
And I'm sure I have the numbers off, but it wasn't that much, but because he
won, he was like, how much did he win?
He took like 200,000 and he won like 350,000.
So he made like 150 and he was able to put the money back.
So then he thought, I'm going to do this again.
But this time he went and talked to the other vault manager and said, look, I say
we take like, I already blew that money and went through that in the year.
So, so let's take, let's take two or $3 million with your help.
Nobody's going to notice the money's gone because you're the other person that
kind of counts the money.
And he's like, and they were like, okay, so then they also involved these two
guards because we're going to come in here one night and we're going to remove
the money.
We're going to buy lottery tickets and we're going to scrape them off.
And they literally talked about how they scraped them off until their fingers
were bleeding.
And this is these two guys, like I can't say their names like
and you know, I don't know.
So, but the fact is, is that the second time they did not win.
And I mean, like badly, like they took out like a couple of million and they
had won back like 40,000.
And so what do they do?
Like, you know, they, instead of saying, you know what, let's get out of
China, this was going back.
No, no, it was just off.
We need to try this again.
I got the wrong tickets.
They get more money.
Now that there's so much money missing, like the bank employees are like,
listen, there was a big stack of cash here a week ago and there's a lot less.
Now they were spinning them, say, well, sometimes it happens, they come, you
know, you know, we were here when they took this and the bank, other banks did
like they're trying to do it, but people are getting wise.
And so eventually that they, employees start complaining and then they call
the authorities, the authorities come in, both these guys take off.
They get caught right away.
They're tried, convicted and both of them are taken out back and shot in the head
for fraud.
This is fraud.
That's stealing.
That's a little different than fraud, right?
Well, I'm okay.
It's, well, you see, you robbed a bank, essentially in a very nice way.
Like you walk, it's not like they held him up.
Like they walked out with, it wasn't armed robbery.
They're like a briefcase.
It was like, it wasn't like, like you shot him in the head.
It was like grand theft.
Right.
And not just that, like this is like paper money in China.
Like you guys can just run some more paper money and fix it.
Right?
Like, I mean, this is not that big of a deal.
Like, you know, they shot them, both of them.
The other two guys got like three years.
The other two, remember the two guards got like three years or something, like
literally for just looking the other way, they got like three or four years in
like an internment camp where they're, they go through reeducation or something.
It's like, I didn't do anything.
Like they just walked out.
It's bad.
It's bad.
Oh, and by the way, that's how it needs to be.
Oh my God.
Oh my God.
So listen, you know, it's really, you know, Shane agrees, you know, it's really fucked up.
I don't know if that's how it should be, but I mean, I bet you a lot less people
would be doing fucked up shit when you're like, Hey, fucking Timmy over there.
Got shot, got capped in the head.
All I did was walk out with a couple of mills real nicely.
Yeah, they can.
Zach, that's rough.
Yeah, that is rough.
Like nobody, they didn't even hurt anybody's feelings.
Like they didn't come in with hard with guns and zip tie everybody and scrammed
to death.
Like they walked out with them in briefcases.
Right.
White collar criminal.
Yeah.
Nonviolent.
That's kind of blue collar.
But look, here's where it really, you don't wear out why they should have been
shot in the head.
They put the money in the lottery tickets.
Like, yeah, that was dumb.
The stupidity alone.
Right.
That tells you the mentality of these idiots.
They deserved it for sure.
The problem, put it on roulette or something.
The big problem was the guy won the first time.
Yeah.
Like he lost the first time.
Yeah, he went into that shit again.
Now he's trying to scramble 200 grand.
And you know what's funny?
This is how China is.
They said that when the guy, one guy took off on the run, he won.
He took like a cab ride, like, like something like 50 miles or a hundred
miles or something way outside of his district.
Then he bought a bought some kind of a, a decent vehicle with cash.
Then he went to a nice hotel and rented the hotel or something with cash.
The person who rented him the hotel room told the police, this guy came in.
He's got a ton of cash.
I think something's wrong.
The guy who sold him the car said, this guy bought a car from me.
All cash, very suspicious.
The guy, the cab driver said, I just dropped this guy off here at this place.
Very weird.
Paid me in cash, over 50 or a hundred miles into my cab.
Very strange.
Like everybody called the authorities, like everybody told on you.
That was like, yeah, they ain't smart.
They're all snitching.
The whole country's terrified.
Yeah.
I wouldn't have gotten anywhere.
That's the kind of country that we need to be.
Oh my God.
I mean, what are the crime levels over there?
There's no crime.
There's almost no crime.
And well, then the process works.
It does.
Yeah.
If there is a crime, it only happens once.
And how many people are in China?
Law-abiding citizens, maybe you can buy that Jordan.
Is it like three billion or two billion?
Look, if you have to fucking, if you have to blow a couple of fraudsters brains
out, this is not how I want it to prove a point, 1.4 billion, one point,
would I say three and one point, 1.302 are law-abiding citizens.
How many lives are you saving?
Like, look at all the violence and murders and deaths we have in America every day.
How many, I mean, there's gotta be, there's gotta be thousands of people.
People shooting up schools, little children, and I mean, I years in the can.
Listen, maybe if we were a little bit stricter and had a little bit, a little bit
stricter, a little bit more had, we, we, we enforce a little bit more discipline
on our citizens, we wouldn't have all these fucked up problems in our
country.
Well, they want to lock them up for the money.
We've got to bring the chair back.
You do understand that we have one percent of our entire population is incarcerated.
One percent.
You understand we're the largest, that's what I'm saying.
Don't lock them up.
Kill them.
That's, I mean, I'm sure like people with DUIs, kill them.
Not DUI, maybe people with the fist fights, kill them.
People that steal in golf carts, drug, by the way, you, you, by the way, drugs, you
know, drugs, oh yeah, they don't play with drugs.
No, drugs should be legalized.
No, drugs should be legal.
No, kill them.
No, we had to leave.
Kill them.
We need to legalize all guns.
Listen, don't worry, 50 years.
I mean, not guns.
We need to legalize, yeah, we need to legalize guns and we need to legalize all
drugs, but if you go and shoot somebody and kill somebody, these guys didn't kill anybody.
They took some money or if you rob a bank, you're done, or if you commit credit
card fraud or mortgage fraud, you're dead off with your, off with your head.
I disagree.
What's the next topic for the, on the agenda?
What, how would the country, don't you think China's winning though, as a country?
Yes, they're definitely winning.
Well, I look, they have, they have rules for people who use social media.
If you're under 18, you can't scroll on TikTok and Instagram past 10 o'clock.
After that, it's all educational content.
I think they want to educate their populace.
I think China has some, some, some issues, major issues.
You know, like, well, I think, you know, like right now they keep talking about,
like listen, like Boziak and I go back and forth on this all the time.
They're going to invade Taiwan.
They're going to invade.
I'm like, no, they're not.
Yes, they are.
Yes, sir.
I know that their economy is starting to implode.
They're having major problems.
You don't start a war in the middle of, when you're,
there'll be a war.
Well, yeah.
Cause I think, I do think that the United States would probably, I mean,
Biden has repeatedly said that he would, he would back up, you know, um, Taiwan.
Like, I think it's very, listen, he, look, he's, he's a decrepit old man.
He's falling apart, but he is sending, he is sending over tons of weapons and
money to, um, to the Ukrainians, you know, billions and billions and billions.
Like he, and he probably would back up.
Like you can't let China invade Taiwan.
Plus the Taiwanese, they know they've been coming forever.
Like this, even, or will it, would China be able to take it?
Probably, but honestly, it's going to be one hell of a bloodbath.
Like this whole, this whole little tiny country is set up for an invasion.
Like it's, it's, it's, it's vicious.
Like, I mean, they've got everything as mine.
They've got tons of anti, uh, aircraft, you know, weapons.
They've got like, they've been being trained by the United States this entire
time, like they're, who has the Taiwanese have they really?
Yeah.
And they've got two, there's only twice a year when they can really kind of
launch an invasion, you know, like, would China ultimately overpower them?
Yes, probably.
But then again, China has the same kind of problems.
Russia has, you know, like they don't have really, they're standing army.
There's a ton of corruption.
They're standing army.
They don't really have like the U S where they have like career military men
going and stay forever.
Like most guys are conscripted for two years.
They get back out.
They're, they're not trained very well.
Their pilots aren't super trained.
They don't spend a lot of time in the air.
You know, they don't, you know, they don't have the ability to move all of their
forces, like, you know, they don't have like the troop transports, but then
again, Tai, Taiwan's not that far, you know, so, but also they're, they're
whole economy is having a real problem right now.
Like they're about to be in one of the biggest bankruptcies in their China.
Yeah.
Why?
So, so if, if I understand it right, I don't know anything about economics or
money.
Well, if, if I understand it right, it, and I might get a little bit off of
basically what they did was like something like 90% of their society is
creating is are like, you know, it's, it's rule, right?
It's rule rule.
It's, it's, it's, they're like, rural, rural, sorry.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know what you mean.
Yes.
I said rule.
I thought you said rural.
So it's like, they're like farmers.
So a lot of people, most people in China, like they're born on a farm or in a
small town, they never really leave that small town and they kind of die in that
small town.
Well, because China's trying to grow.
Kind of like Shane, he grew up here and he'll die here.
And then he gets around more than these guys.
So, and, and, and they have access to the, to, he has access to the internet.
So he's more worldly.
Oh yeah.
So, so all he uses the internet for is sports betting.
So, so what the, what the Chinese did, good stuff, like, I want to say, like,
like in the, in the 2008 financial crisis, like during that time period, like
whatever, 15 years ago, um, that what they started doing was they started
supplementing, um, developers to start building more and more residential
community, more and more residential communities near like the, uh, the cities.
And the government was backing mortgages.
So people in these little towns could move to the city so the whole place could
become more industrialized, right?
So now these people are coming to the city.
Well, they start filling up the cities.
And that's why you have these mega cities, right?
But you understand that most of those cities are in between some of these cities
are 40 up to 44% either 45% vacant, like they're calling them ghost cities and
ghost towns, like you go in these towns and like there's just all these houses
that are just empty.
How is that possible with almost two billion people?
Well, because the people are still, are still, they're still on the farms.
It's a big country.
They've paid or they've given some money to this massive, massive, um,
construction company to build them a house.
But one of the things that the construction company was doing, and then
they would get a mortgage that was subsidized by the government and then
they could move there, but they were supposed to be jobs, but there's no jobs.
So what's happening is there's all these places getting built and they're
never being sold, but the people are putting money down.
So unlike in the United States, they were taking a lot of these down payments
and using it to build other things.
So this, and then it about five or six years ago, you're going too fast.
The government's taking the down, no, no, no, no, this is the company.
This country, massive construction company, they were taking the down
payments.
Yes.
A developer, let's say it's, it's, it's a developer.
They know lots of construction companies underneath them.
So what happens is about five or six years ago, I can never say that
Chinese leader's name, Qing, Chang, whatever, what's his name?
The, the, the president of China.
No idea.
Ling Tao, whatever.
Anyway.
Zhang Qing.
Okay.
So he basically a few years ago said, look, we're not going to keep subsidizing
this whole thing.
Xi Ling, I forget.
He basically a few years ago, like five or 10 years, five or six years ago, he
said, we're not going to keep backing this up.
We're not going to keep giving you money for the mortgages and do all this.
Cause he knew, they knew this is the slotty, the cities are being built that
aren't, nobody's there and there's no jobs.
And so these guys aren't coming.
So they started taking in foreign investors, investor money to keep building.
So this company keeps doing this.
And what's ended up happening is, I think it was last quarter, which was a few
months ago that for the first time ever, they missed their quarterly interest
payment to their oversee investors.
Who are their oversee investors?
Well, I don't know who, I don't have a list or anything, but that was the
first time, and that means that now the second investment or second ones coming
due, they're saying they're going to miss that.
They said at that point, most likely there's going to be some kind of a
forced bankruptcy and they said it will be the largest bankruptcy in China history.
The other problem is all of these bullet train trains that they were building in
China, it's the same thing.
Investors and the Chinese government has dumped a ton of money into these things.
And although they're amazing, nobody's, you know, first off COVID was an issue,
but nobody's taking the trains.
And now the other issue is the trains aren't going to places that have anybody
living there.
So you've got a high ticket train that nobody's paying for their 20 or 30% of
what they should have been.
And the foreign investors and the Chinese investors are pissed off.
Like there's just now starting to have these major problems.
So your whole economy's on the verge of really starting to have a recession.
You don't start invading other countries.
Like you've got a problem.
If things go bad, you know, look, China only didn't go under in what, 91 when, uh,
when Russia broke, well, when the Soviet Union broke apart, they didn't go under
because in Tiananmen Square, when they were helping holding their, you know,
these, um, uh, you know, these large demonstrations where they were saying,
we want to be a democracy, the Chinese actually fired on their own people.
Most of the countries that broke away from the Soviet Union, they wouldn't,
the military wouldn't fire on them when they were saying, look, clear out the,
the square, get these, all these people that are protesting, get rid of them.
Like the, the Russians wouldn't fire on them.
Like they're like, look, I, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to fight.
These are, I understand that they're trying, they want to be their own country,
but I'm not going to fire on these people.
They're, they're Russians.
Like they're not, you know, they'd be like the U S military.
Ukraine that happened to, there's a couple of coups in the Ukraine.
Right.
Like you, you really think, you know, no matter how big the riot is,
do you think that the government, that our soldiers would show up knowing what's
happening and they'd say, listen, we want you to start mowing down these people
that are holding signs.
Like they'd be like, yeah, bro, I'm not going to do CIA would.
I don't know about, I don't know about all that.
But I just know that I think that the basics of the American soldier is going
to be like, yeah, I'm sorry, man, like Bustamante, ask him, he'd have a different
opinion.
Bustamante's not going to mow anybody down.
He's a nice guy.
He would kill first government if they wanted to.
I'm sure it would kill American citizens though.
No, absolutely.
Calling it.
Let's call them.
Call them up.
Let's call them right now.
We're calling Bustamante right now.
No way.
Don't call him.
I am calling him.
He's got kids.
But you just said call him.
I mean, I'm not right.
I thought about it again.
We shouldn't call him.
We should bother him.
Yeah.
Listen, he's not, he's not, you know what he said, you know, he, uh, was
interesting, you know how everyone's really worried about like the, the nuclear
button with Russia, like Russia, the Senate nukes in the U S Senate nukes back
and forth nuclear holocaust and all this stuff.
Well, the process of firing off a nuke in Russia is a complete mess.
Completely different than it is in the United States.
In the United States, the president has all that power.
Right.
Like Trump could have made the decision like, okay, like he, he could do it.
Yeah.
Putin can't do that.
Really?
No, there's generals.
There's a, there's a bunch of generals that each have their own, uh, they each,
they each make the call themselves.
Like he has to ask the general to do it.
And then the general, it's his decision.
Putin alone can't make that decision.
Oh, I didn't know that.
So it has to go through a bunch of these.
I'll just figure Putin could say, boom, do it, fire him.
No.
Nope.
I'll have to, I'm, that's something I'll look up and you, I'm going to, I'm going
to send you a link to a video, uh, Jordan.
And you can, you can, um, I was going to say, I'm looking that up tomorrow.
You can post this.
This is great.
Uh, he was, he went on Julian Dory's podcast.
Oh yeah.
Just like you did.
Yeah.
Julian's great.
I'm going on again.
He does a bunch of really good.
So how do I send you this link?
That's on Instagram link.
I'm going to text it to you.
Oh wait, can you pull up your texts on?
You probably can't pull up on the computer.
You'll figure it out.
You'll find it.
I just texted it to you.
But yeah, that was pretty fucking insane.
Woo.
It's Juneteenth.
I know.
Happy Juneteenth.
How was your piss?
Refreshing.
Ready for more liquid death?
Ready for another bump of this stuff?
Nah.
Not really.
Shit lit me up.
Start giving me the chills.
Woo.
This is the Juneteenth, Matt Cox edition.
What are you doing?
Who you texting?
I'm telling him that, because I did call him, it went through.
Did he text you?
No, I'm just telling him, hey, I was, we're doing a podcast.
We were going to call you, but we decided against it.
Ha, ha, ha.
Yeah, we're telling him we didn't want to bother him because he has kids.
Yeah.
You find it?
Oh, come on.
Smell it.
You can do it.
Just look up Julian Dory.
It really is.
It really makes me think of chlorine.
J-U-L-I-N-D-O-R-E-Y on Instagram.
It's like his...
Did you see, hey, listen.
It is his second to last post.
Julian does amazing little, what are they called?
YouTube stories?
This is it right here.
The one that says crazy.
Watch.
Yeah, he does great clips.
Oh, come on.
Yeah, he's a good clip guy.
He does great clips.
Motherfucker.
You gotta be logged in to watch it.
Log in.
Maybe you can go on his Tik Tok.
Search Tik Tok, Julian Dory.
Does he have Tik Tok?
Oh yeah, he's big on Tik Tok.
There you go.
First link.
That one.
We need volume.
So what are the military structures?
The way that the military is structured in Russia.
Refresh it.
The commanders have independent jurisdiction.
There you go.
If Putin did go crazy and decided to launch a nuclear missile,
it still might not actually happen because...
The way that the military is structured in Russia,
the commanders have independent jurisdiction over the missile industry.
Really?
In Russia?
In the United States, it's not like that.
Really?
In the United States, the President says launch,
he gives a code, and everybody launches.
In Russia, he says launch, and each individual commander has to say launch.
Which means that if the CIA were running an intelligence assessment
and determined that 99% of commanders would not take the order,
that might be all the United States needs to do.
I thought, let's go ahead and take a look.
If Putin did go crazy and just...
How crazy...
I love...
It's crazy how fucking calm he is about talking about this stuff, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
He's just so, like, calm and relaxed.
I'm worried about his hair.
It's really puffy.
Oh, he looks like Colin Kaepernick.
Yeah, he's...
He does.
Oh, fuck.
Julian has great clips.
Great clips.
He spends a lot of time doing that.
Yeah, those clips are fucking little miniature movies.
They're great.
I have...
I started...
I told you, I started a clips channel.
Oh, yeah, I subscribed to it.
I was your first subscriber.
Nice.
You're welcome.
And a TikTok one, too.
And, like, my subs...
My subs of...
Like, it was down to, like, I was getting, like, a thousand subs a month,
and now it's up to, like, two or two and a half.
Oh, yeah.
Like, it's coming up.
Like, I'm almost...
Oh, what's happening?
Your subscribers on your main channel are growing?
Just jumped.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Even my TikTok...
Even my TikTok with my knockoff soft white underbelly,
it's called Inside the Darkness.
Remember, I started...
My TikTok already has, like, almost 3,000.
I just started putting them up.
No way.
Yeah, it's crazy.
My TikTok's at, like, 100.
Wait, I mean, you got...
I post, like, once a day.
Do you really?
Yeah.
So what is it...
What are you posting on there?
I'm posting the little...
The interviews of these guys.
Like, I do, like, an hour or 30 minutes, whatever the interview is,
and then I just take it and I cut it up.
I'll find, like, some of these guys say crazy stuff.
What is the name of your TikTok?
He'll pull it up.
It's called, um...
It's called Inside the Darkness.
Inside the Darkness TikTok.
Yes.
Inside the Darkness.
Inside the Darkness.
Inside the Darkness.
Inside the Darkness.
Mmm.
But, um...
And it's just, like, soft white underbelly?
It's...
You called it a...
You called it a discount soft white underbelly, which is accurate.
But still.
Still.
It hurt.
Did it hurt, really?
No, it didn't.
I started laughing immediately.
Immediately.
That's perfect.
You summed it up.
It's the fucking dollar store soft white underbelly.
Yeah.
Oh, and listen, I got this kid named Gunner.
Uh-huh.
Who's running...
Well, that's...
This is a soft white...
This is...
There it is.
Wow, you already got 3,000 followers.
So, this is this one, but, you know, I have another one, too, which is, um...
The other one I have is called Matthew Cox Crime.
That thing's got, like, 22,000?
Or...
What?
Yeah, this kid started running it for me, like, two months ago.
No.
Six or eight weeks ago.
Spelled Matthew wrong, I think.
Miss Matthew.
M-A-T-T-H-E-W.
Cox Crime.
Crime.
Crime.
Crime.
Oh.
You still didn't...
There you go.
There it is.
Top one.
Top one.
Yeah.
So this is 23,000.
23,000 followers.
Nice.
Damn.
Are you making money on this?
Can you make money on TikTok?
No.
You can monetize.
But the kid, Gunner...
But Gunner was like, nah, he said, I've heard mixed things.
And it's just...
You just don't make enough to make it worth it.
He said, let's just keep going.
And this is really boosted.
This is doubled, almost tripled, my subscribers per month.
On Instagram or on YouTube?
On YouTube.
What?
Yeah, because there's a button...
Jones is seeing dollars, huh?
Yeah, there's a button for my YouTube.
There's a button somewhere over here.
Probably got a lot.
Watch one of it.
Come on on here.
Let's find out.
Oh, one of them's got like 6...
12,000.
No, no.
One of them...
37,000?
96 and a half thousand.
No, one of them's got 600,000.
500, 600,000.
Can you sort it?
I don't believe so.
Yeah, it's got...
This guy's got it.
Look at his thumbnails with the arrows.
Right?
He's amazing.
Look, that's me.
That's 192.
On the very right.
Look at that one.
Yeah.
14.
Oh, this one's from our first podcast.
Damn, let's throw back.
Yeah, he cut up a bunch of them.
He's...
It's got a...
Here, I'll tell you right now.
Look at that green curtain.
This was three years ago.
Damn.
This guy's killing it.
Hunter.
Shout out to Hunter.
Gunner.
Gunner.
Gunner.
That's the one.
What a cool name.
Gunner.
Fucking it.
It's got 561,000.
Damn.
Which one does?
Top right.
Oh, the top left.
Okay.
Wow.
561,000.
Damn, son.
But yeah, 23,000.
This kid...
Listen, you know what it had when he started?
I think about six weeks ago.
Gunner, hook me up.
He had 300.
Nice.
He had what?
I had 300 followers.
How much are you paying him?
Well, let's talk about it.
You're not paying him, are you?
What are you talking about?
He's amazing.
You're not paying Gunner.
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
We're talking.
Well, he's worth a fortune whenever you're paying him.
He's doing great.
These are great.
That's about us.
This guy.
I need Gunner.
You do need Gunner.
Gunner's a sick name.
It's going to cost you no.
Gunner's expensive, but yeah.
Gunner's worth it.
He's amazing.
Dude.
Listen.
Gunner.
Gunner.
Gunner.
Gunner.
Gunner.
Gunner.
See?
Listen.
Hey, I think I'mue.
He's 22,000.
I'm thinking I'mganna name my new kid, I'm gon name him Ripsoft.
Well, not chainsaw.
I produkt Raw.
Raw.
Why Ripsoft?
I don't know.
I heard that name there.
It sounds pretty cool.
The wife would never let it.
Ripsoft.
Ripsoft, Jones.
I.
Is that good?
I.
I Bushbacker, Jones.
I think you should talk to your wife, What's it what's it what else is on your agenda,
That's it.
Matt, over the weekend, I heard you on the radio three times.
Three fucking times.
Is that funny?
I'm serious.
I'm serious.
On ESPN radio.
They must have the contract with Title Law.
I'm riding in the truck and I'm listening to sports
and I hear this guy talking.
I'm like, fucking Matt?
And then I hear the Title Law guy come on and I said,
no shit.
Fucking Matt cops.
On ESPN radio.
Everywhere, bro.
You were in the halfway house two and a half years ago.
Now you're all.
Fucking on ESPA.
How crazy.
Honestly, I was.
I was riding thinking about like, holy fuck, this guy.
This is ESPN radio.
Listen, you know what's so funny is that I'll be doing a podcast
about fraud and guys are leaving comments saying,
do you realize that all the commercials are from banks
and mortgage companies?
They're advertising on my podcast.
Or?
What a 360.
Exactly.
This is the home Title Law.
A 180.
Yeah.
And I'm going to New York in like two weeks.
I told you, I mean, I can't say for who,
but I'm going there to be filmed for a thing for a.
A big, big fancy production.
Yeah, like a documentary type thing.
Fucking awesome.
It's right.
You know what always sounds better than it is.
No, but the journey is you've come a long way, man.
A long way.
Matthew Cox come up.
Look, listen, and every time I'll tell you right now,
it was Danny's fucking bullshit.
Well, I'm like, yeah, I'm thinking about it.
I'm on the phone with you.
I'm thinking about it.
I'd like to do some kind of a, maybe a true crime.
Can I talk to you?
And he immediately scams me, thank God he scammed me.
He's like, well, you know the best way for you to figure out
whether people are interested or not
is to come on my thing and come on my podcast
and tell your story.
It's like, I don't know.
And then I go and I do it and it like blows up
and changes everything.
It's like.
Even when he said it, I was thinking,
this dude's scamming me.
He just wants me to come and tell him story.
And I was like, I'll do it.
He has answered a lot of questions.
I mean, he's answered every question,
taken all my calls, returned all my emails, texted me.
I was like, he's done.
And you're in the fucking halfway house, no less.
And so as soon as I get out, he says,
hey, I haven't put anything up like two weeks.
You got to come now.
I answered your questions, you got to come.
Like he dropped all pretense of being a nice guy.
Listen, I was like, okay.
And I thought.
That phone call was literally our podcast that day bailed.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's right.
That guy rescheduled.
Yeah, I came right there.
And I was like, I need somebody.
I was like, did I come that night?
I called Matt Cox right now and you came, yeah.
Yeah, because I figured this guy's
going to stop answering questions.
Like he's been really good with explaining things to me.
And then I came and I did the thing and it was great.
And then I was like, hey, let's do a true crime podcast.
He was like, no, no, no, let me think about it.
And then it never happened.
Still worked out.
It still worked out.
Yeah, I don't know.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
No, good times.
We'll see what happens.
It seems, listen, everybody I know right now,
oh, the doctor said to say hi.
Oh, hey doctor.
Too bad this isn't live, we'd get a nice donation.
I'm telling you, right?
Yeah, I'll explain the whole hunter,
the whole gunner and the doctor and the whole.
Oh, he knows the doctor?
No, he's orchestrating all.
Listen, this dude's doing all kinds of stuff for me.
What?
Amazing.
I can't tell you, I can't tell you.
I don't want to jinx it.
Can you tell me off air?
Yes, of course.
OK, good.
So, but like him, like I've got like five or six guys
that are like in the know and all of them are like,
bro, you understand like you were on the cusp of something
really happening.
All these things are about to happen.
And I'm like, yeah, I felt like that for about two years.
And they're like, well, it's close.
And everybody, Jess, everybody's like,
I'm telling you like, I feel like something's
about to blow up.
I'm like, it would be nice.
Don't forget about your friends down here at Rack.
And that happens.
I'll be shouting out every time I'll be on Joe Rogan.
I got to say hi to Danny at Rack.
Hell yeah.
Before I forget about him next month, one last shout out.
Good times.
Hey, are we going to call the emperor?
I mean, you can call him.
So what is the deal with him?
What's the story with the emperor?
Last time we talked, you thought he got arrested.
I thought he got arrested, but he didn't.
For people who don't know, the emperor, who is the emperor?
I mean, Frank Amadeo.
Frank Amadeo, who is, what's his condition?
He's a rapid cycling bipolar with features of schizophrenia.
And he believes, since he was very young,
he has believed that God is telling him
he will ultimately, he will be emperor of the world,
which is an odd thing to hear.
Unfortunately, he's also a lawyer and extremely competent
and has tried to mount a coup in the Congo.
There's a documentary about that called
Nine Days in the Congo.
He was convicted for stealing 180,
defrauding the federal government out of $180 million.
It actually, the number's closer to 200 million,
but that's what he pled guilty to.
And he eventually, I mean, literally,
I got pictures of him with Bush.
He backed, he was one of the financial backers
of the NATO summit in Latvia.
He owned several companies that were security companies
that did like security consulting
and guarded like food trucks and stuff in Afghanistan.
So I mean, he's, he had a ton of,
I think it was like 40,000 employees.
He has just a ton, he's like half a billion dollars
in revenue, he had a bunch of companies.
So eventually he gets in trouble with the government.
He, they, according to him,
really not even according to him, honestly,
according to all the paper, even the government in bits,
they drugged him, like he was drugged.
They convinced him to plead guilty.
He pled was-
What kind of drugs, like MK Ultra type deal?
No, no, no, like Thorazine,
like ridiculous amounts of just like,
he's like drooling during his sentencing.
I mean, he's completely out of it.
Thorazine, what was it called?
Thorazine, like-
Thorazine.
Yeah, it's like a downer, like it's,
is it anti-psychotic?
So you're-
You got his, his spidey senses tingling over there.
Is it like a Vicodin?
That sounds like steroids.
I mean, it's, it's, yeah, it's, you know, it's, it's bad.
It's, it's something you get-
Oh, is it kind of like-
Oh, so what's that, what's your favorite drug
that you love?
Fentanyl.
It's like fentanyl, man.
No, that would-
That's a pain killer.
No, no.
Okay, it's not like fentanyl.
No.
So anyway, he, he eventually pleads guilty,
thinking he's going to get a few years,
and really honestly, just, just drugged out of his mind.
The government, they, they, he's awarded the state.
He, he's awarded the state.
Like basically he's, he's, you know,
he's certifiably like insane.
Like he has a guardian, like he can't sign a check.
He's, he's got, you know, they've, they've got him.
He's, he's got a legal guardian.
He's got, his rights were taken away.
So he pleads guilty, he gets sentenced.
They gave him 22 years.
I go to prison.
I meet him.
I'm in trouble.
I got 26 years.
He, he handles my case because he is a lawyer.
Handles my case.
He ends up filing 222.55.
He gets seven years knocked off my sentence the first time,
five years knocked off my sentence the second time.
He eventually gets himself out of prison.
Yes, please.
He gets himself out of prison on COVID.
So he's out.
Yeah.
And you know, I found out why they-
He's out on COVID.
He's out on COVID release.
You know, and like, that's what,
that's what they all call them.
Like, like you get out.
Oh, I got out on COVID.
But I mean, you know, I mean, there's a technical like,
you know, at his age and with his, you know, his health,
health, it's dangerous for him to be in prison
because COVID is rampant in prison.
So they let him out, put him on an ankle monitor.
He starts working.
Like what?
Unfortunately, I believe he,
there were two law firms that he was consolidating
and he started buying up other companies that were failing
or he was doing some kind of consulting for companies
that were failing, essentially a very similar
to what he was doing the first time.
It's my understanding, my very limited understanding
of what happened.
But what ends up happening is they,
he, his release gets violated.
He goes back to jail.
He's held in jail for, I want to say four months,
never filed a reason why.
Finally, they go in front of the government,
in front of the judge.
He finally gets forces the beer or the justice department
to bring him back in front of the judge and says,
why did you violate me?
Why am I in custody?
They said, we heard that he was suspected
of committing a crime.
What crime?
Where's the evidence?
The judge said, look, oh, and they also said,
he left the jurisdiction without permission.
So they said, great, where's the evidence?
The judge said, you got 10 days.
10 days later, they still hadn't provided it.
The judge says, okay, you got, you got 10 more days.
Like a month later, they still never were able
to provide anything that they said they violated
and forced the judge said, you got to let him out.
What are you doing?
So they let him out and he got back out.
And I thought he had re-violated
because I know someone who is in communication with him.
And she had told me, I haven't heard from him in weeks.
I think he may have been re-violated
because they have it out for him.
So, but I texted his attorney and his attorney said,
nope, still out.
He's doing fine.
You could call him if you want or text him or whatever.
Here's his phone number and everything.
I was like, but I didn't.
So if, but if you want to.
Can we call him on your phone?
Cause he doesn't know your number.
He doesn't know my number.
Okay, let's call him.
I'm going to connect my phone to the speakers right now.
And we're going to fucking do it, man.
I'm going to take me a second.
Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun.
We're getting ready to call the emperor.
What if we got the emperor on the podcast, bro?
How insane would that be?
I'm a dude, I'm a dude.
Hello?
Big voice message system, 40740.
Oh, he texted me.
Sorry, I can't talk right now.
Too busy.
Can I?
Too busy taking over the world.
Let me make sure I call the right number.
What should I say?
I would say that I'm doing a podcast right now
and we're discussing your story
and would love to know it.
It would love for you to chime in.
Crazy shit, Frank Amadeo.
Hopefully we can get him on here soon.
So what's going on with the economy right now, Matt?
What do you do?
I don't know.
We had this conversation.
But you're the shark in the housing pool.
You're supposed to know about the housing market.
I mean, my understanding is just,
but all I know is from listening to, you know,
people that I know are the real estate agents
and listening to, you know, same stuff to you here.
It's just like the amount of houses that are on the market.
Remember, there was like no houses on the market.
As soon as it came on the market, it sold.
Like now the inventory is like growing and growing
and growing.
The inventory is growing.
The last three months,
they said the inventory is just outrageous.
Like their houses are not selling.
Everyone's trying to sell it
because they think the market's gonna tank.
Is that why?
No, because they're paying so good.
Well, I think it was a seller's market before, right?
Where if you were a seller, you, you know,
but now I think that the buyers are just starting to dry up.
And is it, you know, and look, everything,
I mean, I think that it's just, it's just that
because everything's so expensive because of inflation
and everything's getting so expensive.
Like if you thought, Hey, I have all this extra money.
I can go buy a house.
I can spend a little bit more.
I have a better, more money on a down payment.
Like none of that's possible anymore.
Like in the last three months.
Cause the interest rates are so high, 6%.
I think the average is 6% now.
Well, yeah, but it's not that they're doing that
to try and slow the economy down.
Like they're trying to slow it down
because it was growing so fast,
but they should have been doing that two years ago.
Why? No, I don't understand this shit at all.
Why would they try to be slowing it down?
Because they know that there's a bubble that's going to happen.
They know it's going to pop and it's going to be a crash.
So they're like, they don't want it to keep growing.
So you raise- So why do you want to stop people
from buying houses and taking out mortgages?
Well, you want to at least slow it down, not stop.
If they want to stop it, they'd make it 18%.
They just want to slow it down.
Slow down.
Like it's getting too much.
What happens if it keeps going at the same rate
at the same fast rate?
I don't understand, how's that get bad?
People, you got a bunch of homeowners.
Why is that a bad thing?
Well, because eventually when the market crashes,
because look at, at this point,
all the money that they've dumped into the economy,
it's now starting to take effect, right?
Like you're starting to have serious inflation.
And this is serious inflation.
Like I buy TV dinners.
They're $3.41, $42, $0.45.
Do you really?
I used to buy, yeah.
Hellenquazine.
Absolutely.
I love ling cuisine.
What kind?
Lasagna.
Are there different flavors?
Yeah, but no, but I don't know.
No, there's one flavor.
Which one do you eat?
I eat pork and beans.
It's, I think it's turkey with apple spices.
Pull a picture of this shit up.
Apple spices, is it?
Turkey with apple spices?
Ling cuisine?
It's delicious.
I got to see what the fuck this looks like.
You ever saw a ling cuisine?
Yeah, like a microwavable meal.
You know what they are now?
Bundy would eat.
Listen, they were $3.45.
They're now like $4.60.
This is what you fucking eat, man.
I love these things.
Are you serious?
Oh my God, both the nutritional facts of this shit.
I'm hungry as hell.
I made ribs tonight.
Where can I buy these for three?
It says $3.04.
I don't know where they're from.
Walmart.
You got to shop online, man.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
314 at Walmart, bud.
Oh, listen, they're $4.00 and something
at like 450, 460 at Publix.
It's outrageous.
Publix is public.
Highway robbery.
Yeah, but I mean, everything is shooting
through the roof, I guess.
So why are the prices of all this shit
shooting through the roof?
Like why?
Because the mortgage, because the mortgages?
No, no, no.
Why?
Because they dump so much money into the economy.
The Fed did.
They dumped it.
When you say dumping money in the economy,
you mean sending people the fucking Trump checks?
The Trump checks?
Right, right.
All the checks, the Trump checks,
and then of course, Biden released them.
Didn't Biden?
Biden did Trump checks?
Yeah, I think, didn't Trump do two?
And then didn't Biden do one?
Maybe.
Plus all the PPP loans, plus all of that.
Now we're going to pay you $600 a week to stay home.
So all these people having money, right?
Caused inflation.
Well, they caused them to go out and buy more stuff, right?
So they bought more stuff, so inventory goes down.
So the guy who's.
OK, OK, inventory goes down.
They go out and they produce even,
or they produce more stuff and they raise their prices.
Because everyone's just buying.
Because they're buying, so what do we do to slow it down?
We raise, we're not charging enough.
We're running out of, we're running out of sodas,
charge more for sodas, it'll slow the process down,
and we'll make even more money for what we're doing anyway.
But then the government starts sending people all the money,
and then their prices are still high on the liqueurses.
Right, and they're still buying and buying,
and then at some point, it becomes.
But what, how much are you gonna buy with 1400 bucks?
Like.
It doesn't, I mean, they're still buying.
They also made car loans streamly,
remember car loans in the middle of the pandemic are like,
they're like 0%, 1%, they're giving everybody a car,
they lowered the guidelines for what you had to qualify,
how much the down payment,
well like anybody could get a car.
Hell yeah.
I just got out of a halfway house and I got a car.
You know, like you're giving, like I've got like a,
eight months worth of credit,
you're gonna give me like 100%.
At that point, it was.
Now.
735.
Damn, Matt.
Out of the halfway house, it was 750 something,
but I still only had like six months worth of credit.
Right.
I got six months worth of credit and no job,
and barely have a job at all.
You just gave me a car loan.
You got three years worth of credit now,
and you still got a 775.
Yeah, but I'm kind of living off some of the credit cards now.
Where before I didn't have anything on the credit cards.
So, you know, so you have your capacities higher.
Anyway, the point is, is that at some point,
all that money and all the things getting charged
more and more and more, you know,
are getting more and more expensive.
At some point, it just can't keep going.
And they stopped giving you free money.
Right.
So, what's happening is, everything is suddenly
about to just say, like first of all, house prices.
That's a perfect example.
What's up world?
You just watched a clip from one of our
exclusive Patreon episodes.
That's right.
You can get weekly, pure, uncut content
straight from the jungles of Columbia.
If you want to watch the full episode,
make sure you go to patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Peace.
