Explain your book, Flight of the Rondoni, or maybe before that just explain a little
bit about who you are and what your background is.
Okay, I'm originally from the south side of Chicago, grew up in an Italian enclave basically,
you know, 5,000 miles away from Italy, and we have 13 brothers and sisters, basically
with half brothers, step brothers, etc., but for me they were always all my brothers and
sisters.
I lived the American dream, first I was in trouble, Judge Clarence Bryant sent me to
the military when I was 16, I couldn't go into any military but the Air Force because
they were the only ones who had what was called the late enlistment program, so my
mother signed and I went into the Air Force when I turned 17.
I got out when I was like 19 because my mother needed help at home so I got a hardship discharge
which is an honorable discharge, and I started working on the Docks in Chicago, a friend
of mine needed someone to take a job as a runner at the Chicago Board of Options Exchange
and it ended up being me.
A couple years later I was a guest on the Oprah Winfrey Show as a rags to riches story,
later I was a guest on her show again as a famous American chauvinist, I was in Playgirl
magazine with Sylvester Stallone and Magic Johnson as one of America's most notable
bachelors in 89 I believe it was, and I got married, my oldest son was diagnosed with
a very rare blood disease in 92 October and I dropped everything and threw my life into
trying to cure sickle cell disease and thalassemia which is the disease that my son has and the
reason I say both of those diseases is because they're both defects on the beta-globin gene
so you cure one, you cure them both and there's 100,000 sickle cell disease patients, U.S.
there's only 2500 thalassemic patients.
Our mutual friend of ours, Art Williams, the counter-fitter put us in touch, how did you
meet Art?
Yeah, Art's from my neighborhood as well, my brother Georgie, God rest his soul, hung
around with Art, you know, and our kids and Art's a typical neighborhood guy, just like
I tend to believe I'm a typical neighborhood guy, you know, it's a blue collar, enclave
Italian mostly and Irish predominantly, back then especially, and you know he said, hey
I got this nice guy, Danny, I want to put you in touch, he's got this good show and
I think you're made for it and of course my book, Flight of the Rondone, you know, just
hit the stores three or four days ago, you can get it on Amazon and BAM and here it is
and
Flight of the Rondone
and of course if nobody reads the book, it doesn't do anybody any good.
What started you on this journey from, like, what was your early life like, like you were
born, where?
Yeah, so I was born on the south side of Chicago, to an Irish father, an Italian mother, but
I grew up in an Italian neighborhood because my father was never around and that night
I don't remember how old I was, he said he wasn't my father, I mean I really don't care
about all that nonsense, but I do have my mother's maiden name.
I lived a wonderful life, you know, I love it how people, you know, everybody wants a
whine and complain and cry today, you know, what was me, whether it's a special interest
group called Me Too or Black Lives Matter or LGBTQ, you know, it's all about, oh what
was me, what was me, we're discriminated against and all of that, well, all of us, every single
one of us has hardship, heartbreak, et cetera and I'm one of the believers that the hardship
and heartbreak is what make us who we are and I'm very lucky and fortunate and happy
that on the south side of Chicago I had a lot of experiences stealing cars and, you
know, stores and whatever I did to, you know, make ends meet and I'm happy about it, I'm
happy who I am, I'm glad, there was nothing hard about it, I got beat up a bunch of times
shot at, you know, I was a, you know, part of a FBI and three FBI investigations, you
know, I mean, but in the end it's not always me, I mean, lucky me that I went through all
these great experiences and I am who I am and my life has just been wonderful and continues
to be wonderful and I'm saying that, you know, the father of a child who in 1992 they said
wouldn't make it to be 14 years of age, he would die and he would live a horrible existence
and, you know, I can say that it was a wonderful life and it is a wonderful life and luckily
my son because of experimental medicine and other advances today is 32, he owns a restaurant,
he's a great, great young man, but yeah, I mean, adversity, I mean, you know, I get
crazy yesterday I was reading an article where schools are going to start, you know, giving
grades to kids that they consider darker skin than the others, they're going to give them
extra points on their grades to try to make up for discriminations of the past and I mean,
it's just insanity, I have no idea where these people come from. If I had a tougher background
growing up, I've actually got the advantage, not the disadvantage. So I come from a family,
there wasn't a lot of cake, you know, a lot of fighting, shooting, 10% of my neighbors
in jail for crying out loud, well, are we all whining and saying, poor woe is me, no, we were
lucky that we grew up like that, you know, we had a lot of different experiences that other
people weren't as lucky to get those experiences. So everybody, you know, I say they played a woe
as me card for me, it's the opposite, I was lucky, you know, I mean, and this idea of now
balancing the act out because we mistreated, you know, homos or we mistreated dark skin
people or we mistreated the handicap, whatever it is, I mean, I think it's kind of the social
experiment experiments are kind of great for the big corporations and all that, but I think
they're great for corporations and politicians. Yeah, I mean, but it's just ripping the country
apart. It's just I've never seen anything so ridiculous. I mean, if I went back to Italy and
told the Italians that they were white, they'd look at me like I was nuts. Like, what are you
talking about? And especially in Italy, where, you know, you go into Calabria, Sicily, Puglia,
you know, a lot of our people are darker skinned than the Northern Africans. And then if you go
up to Trieste in Northern Italian, you have blue eyes in the Germans. I mean, like, what is all
of this nonsense? And then, you know, I read the other day, I mean, Bill Cosby is going back to
court for something supposedly you did in 1975. I mean, how do you defend yourself? He's free,
isn't he? Well, he's free. But now they're going after him again, because a woman said she's 62
years old. That's exactly right. She's 62. It's a civil case this time. But it's all about money,
of course. But, you know, she's 62 and claims that Bill Cosby and Cosby in 1975 took her to his
hotel or his home and put his hand in her pants and made her touch him. And she's going after
money and Bill Cosby is going to be back in court. He doesn't have to show up. But of course, you
know, he'll have to pay the money if he's condemned. But what are they nuts? I mean, how does a man
or a woman defend themselves about something that happened more than two or three years ago, let
alone 47 years ago? I mean, is this getting even? You know, for all of these poor women who at one
time or another were abused and don't get me wrong, women are abused, men are abused, dogs are
abused, cats are abused, everybody's abused. But I mean, what does this do putting people in jail
and making them give up their money? I mean, it's just, it's insanity. Yeah, it's a weird thing,
especially when there's high high level celebrities like Bill Cosby or because he's got
money, they're not going to go after it. You know, I mean, it could have a guy living on a
street, he's homeless, and maybe he molested 400 women in his days. But they're not going to go
after him because he ain't got no money. Right, right. Or Johnny Depp. Did you watch the whole
Johnny Depp debacle? You know, I didn't watch it all. I mean, it's all kind of, I mean, again,
I live in Italy for the most part. I am a proud American, I served in the American military,
I have a honorable discharge and all of that. And I'll die a proud American Catholic, by the way.
But, you know, I have my three sons, they live in Italy, I live in Italy most of the year.
Oh, they all live in Italy. Yeah, they all live in Italy. And, you know, because my son's disease,
I mean, we ended up there because he was supposed to do experimental medicine and here he had to
be hospitalized and it cost me like 70 grand for 40 days. So I ended up opening up a medical center
in a town 20 miles from my grandparents town. And we ended up there because of that because he
could do the medicine at home. And because instead of like 70,000 for 40 days, I mean, it cost me
like 3000, you know, what is the difference in the medical system there versus here? Well,
this brief interruption is brought to you by versus game. And this week's versus game question
of the week is, will Steph Curry score more than 30 points in game six of the NBA finals?
Go vote yes or no versus game one word no spaces or click the link below or search for
concrete on the versus game app. Go do it now and win some money back to the show.
You know, I mean, this this could go way over, you know, and so at one time,
the health care in the United States was a service.
And today, it's an industry. You know, at one time, when I was a kid, my mother would take me,
my brothers and sisters, we go see Dr. Farrell, if she had 20, she gave him 20. If she had 10,
she gave him a 10. Every year to go into Catholic schools, you had to be checked out. So you'd go
with her and you get done. And Dr. Farrell, whatever my mother had, you know, he spent his 15 minutes,
filled out the papers, we went to school, everybody was happy, because medicine was a vocation
about taking care of sick people. Today, as we know, the corruptorations own a great part
of the health care. And they've infiltrated our not for profits. I mean, you have places like
Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York, which don't get me wrong. It's a great place. The CEO makes
$6.7 million salary a year. And then when a kid dies of cancer, you know, they ask the grandparents
if they can donate $50 for the Easter egg hut. I mean, are they out of their minds? But this is
where health care is gone. It's basically, you know, we watch on television. I think it was 1997,
when the FDA finally allowed us to advertise on television. We're the only ones, by the way,
to do that. So now they not only advertise, you know, all of these drugs for if you've got your
legs move at night or the other day, I saw one for bulging eyes. I mean, and then they tell you
about the defects, which are worse than, you know, than the problem that you have. And this is the
corruptorations that took over the country. I heard somewhere that we are one of, like,
one of two countries on earth that actually allow pharmaceutical companies to advertise.
Yes, New Zealand. But New Zealand don't allow it the way that we allow it. I mean,
we have a direct, you know, we have, you know, I cancer firm of America, you know,
saved my life. And, you know, they told me that I was going to die when I went over to the XYZ
cancer firm. And I went over here and then they told me I was going to live. And here I am. I'm
dancing. I mean, it's just, I mean, it's just insanity. But they own the country. I mean,
look at this LGBTQ stuff. I mean, I mean, does do people realize why the transgender thing is
becoming so big? Well, it's because it's $12,000 a month to do the hormonal treatment. So of course,
you've got these corporations pushing kids to become transgenders. It's about money. It's about
the innovations. You know, I mean, I read the other day that, you know, these testosterone and
estrogen, et cetera, went from being products that 20 years ago we're selling, you know,
$20 million worth to selling $2 or $3 billion worth. It's not that our kids want to become
girls or boys anymore. It's just that they're being pushed into those things by big pharma.
And it's criminal. I mean, they're child molesters or child abusers. I mean, it's just
insanity, insanity. Wow. I did not know that. That was the cost of this, the sort of therapy for
the transitional. Oh, yeah. And if you talk about these operations, you know, they're mutilating
their bodies, men are cutting off their penises, women are taking skin from their arms and
they're never penises, by the way. And a man is always a man. He's got XY chromosomes. And he's
a man. I mean, they could say whatever they want, but a giraffe, even if it wants to be a turtle,
is still a giraffe. And it's just insanity that, you know, and don't get me wrong, I don't care
what people do in their bedroom. They want to, you know, pack fudge. I don't really care what
they do. It's none of my business. I love them anyway, by the way. But, you know, this whole
idea that we're taking kids and giving all of these horrible drugs that are doing nothing good
for them and trying to say that this is right, we're saving their lives, which is really insane,
because how many suicides are created? And then you have them doing the de-transgendering. You
know, they're going back after that, like 14%. I mean, it is insanity. It's 14% of them go back.
They claim up to 7 to 14, but there's not a lot of good statistics for all of this stuff,
because it's all brand new. But the other day, I was reading and they call them and I apologize
that I forgot exactly, but it's called, they, what do they call it? When you go from one way
to the other, they call it transgendering, not transgendering, there's transitioning, transitioning.
Then they have de-transitioning. Right. I made a mistake. You know, 14 years ago, I thought I
wanted to be a man. No, I really want to be a one. And it's crazy. Guess what? You're born a man.
That's what you are. I'm sorry, but you got to play with the cards that you're dealt. And I'm
not saying you can do whatever you want. I mean, you know, when I was a kid, you know, I mean,
I was fricking 15, 14 years old. I was with a 25 year old waitress for like a year and a half.
I mean, okay, you know, who cares? You know, it was one of the best year and a half of my life.
I learned more from that woman than I learned from 10 or 20 women. You know, today they'd want
to put her in jail. I think you ought to give her a medal. I think they ought to give you a medal.
Believe me, there are some people that would like to do that, but probably in the form of a bullet,
but that's okay too. But in the form of a bullet? Well, you know, look it.
Why would they want to do that? Big pharma. Big pharma isn't like you.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I fought, you know, a company, they were a $12 billion company in 2018.
Their CEO was voted the CEO of the year in 2014. He made $24 million alone in 2018.
In 2020, he was voted the worst CEO in the United States. And the company today has a market cap
of around $300 million. What company was this? Bluebird Bio. Bluebird Bio. And I started my
lawsuit in 2015, not knowing anything by the way, but just wanted to get my product back rolling.
And I just didn't understand what the hell was going on. And had they known that I was eventually
going to last that long, that they'd killed me, like they kill so many people. You know, we have
the couple, for example, that owned Apotec in Canada. They killed them about three years ago.
I forget their exact name. Has nobody ever figured out who they were? A company in Canada called
Apotec. Yeah, Apotec. Yeah. And the owners were, you know, they were killed. I mean, at one time,
it was, I think, 2019, I was at home and I get this weird call and it says,
watch Michael Clancy. I'm like, what the fuck is this? I don't even know what Michael Clancy is,
you know. And then I go and I look at the movie. It was a movie and it's about a guy who's going
against the corruptorations and, you know, they hold them down and they give them phosphate in
between the toes so he gets heart attack, you know. And I actually, my book, it's in my book,
I wrote letters right then to my children. I said, look, if I get killed by the mafia or run over
by a car or have a heart attack, that's not what happened. You know, I'm pissing a lot of people
off. And most of these people are these huge corruptorations I call them. And I call the CEOs,
the modern CEOs, crazed egotistical opportunists. And that's just what they are. And they're
destroying the country. How old was your son when he got diagnosed with sickle cell? So he was
diagnosed with thalassemia which is a cause of disease of sickle cell. So Arabs and Orientals
get thalassemia basically and southern Italy is Arab for the most part, you know, genetically
speaking. And he was two and a half years old in 1992 October. And they told me that he would die
by the time he was 14. He'd have to do transfusions every month or couple of months and it would be
a horrible existence. I was lucky enough to do experimental medicine with a wonderful professor
from the University of San Francisco. She today is at BU Boston University named Susan Perine. And
in order to avoid transfusions because back in the early 90s there was no antibodies
recognized yet for hepatitis C and AIDS. So anybody who did a transfusion, you know, it was
like Russian roulette. So I didn't want to transfuse them. So we did experimental medicine and thank
God for about five, six years he was on that. And it maintained his hemoglobin from where he
would have been at six, six and a half, seven to nine, 10. And so he was able to avoid 100 different
transfusions at a time where you really needed to avoid them. What were the signs? What were you
seeing? What was going on with him? Like what made you question something's up? So when we're in our
mother's womb and up to about a year and a half we have what's called gamma-globin gene. And it's
the fetal hemoglobin. The hemoglobin transports oxygen all over our bodies. And then when we get
to be about a year and a half that turns off and the adult hemoglobin turns on. And that's the beta
globin gene. The problem with sickle cell disease and beta and valosemic patients is that they have
a defective beta globin gene or human adult hemoglobin gene. So as a consequence, I mean these
poor sickle cell disease patients was a slightly different because they also have a problem that
their blood cells sickle in shape and they get these horrible strokes and the pain. And by the way
it's mostly ignored in the United States. And a lot of the reason it's ignored is because there's so
much money in treating the 100,000 patients that are out there. You know they estimate that there's
they cost $150,000 a year for all of these hemoglobin or all of these sickle cell disease
and valosemic patients. So there isn't always a big push to get a cure the same thing in cancer.
And I'm certainly not trying to say, you know, oh yeah, you know, they've got a cure to everything.
And that's not the case. But as was said about me back in the 2000s by one of the top CEOs back
then I believe was Celgene. And he said, Geronady, he can't be that intelligent. He's trying to cure
a disease. The money's in treating him. You said that you got you took him to a special hospital in
San Francisco. And they started treating your son. Yeah, what happened next? Sure. So I at the time
was in Germany. You know, because the markets were gold, excuse me, we're going electronic. I
traded on the floor of the New York, or the Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Board of Office
and Exchange. I had memberships, New York Stock Exchange, et cetera. But at that time,
things were going electronic. I realized that I was in Germany for a deal. And I got a call from
my son's mother and she said, look, Rocco's not moving. You know, he's like, he's tired and he's
very pale, you know, pale. And I said, well, take him in, you know, take him to his pediatrician,
see what's going on. And said he's got the alesemia. And so I looked it up and miles of facts came in
because back then the internet wasn't so easy to get all of the articles about hematology. And in
fact, at the alesemia, we were told that he would die by the time he was 14. And that he needed to
transfuse immediately. I didn't want to do that. So we ended up at St. San Francisco and he did
experimental medicine. Then because we didn't want to do it, we didn't want to be hospitalized,
we couldn't afford to keep him doing the experimental medicine in California. We moved
to Italy forever, basically, and opened up a medical center and he did it there.
Slowly, but surely there were other disease or other.
What made you want to move to Italy? What told you that, you know, what was the, what influenced
that decision? Well, first of all, you know, I was growing up in Italian. I mean, I grew up in
an Italian neighborhood. You know, Italian was the, you know, second language. And when I made
money, I went to Italy, visited my grandparents' people and my mother's people and I loved it.
And it was just, you know, a great place to be. And then when my son was doing the experimental
medicine in the hospital in San Francisco, I decided he couldn't live like that. I mean,
I wanted to avoid the transfusions, but I couldn't afford, you know, whatever it was, 70,000 for 40
days and I didn't want him hospitalized. So we decided in Italy has a more liberal kind of attitude
about medicine in a lot of ways. And he didn't need to be hospitalized to do it there. So we moved
20 miles from my grandparents' house. I opened up a medical center and we started treating a lot
of patients, 38 patients at one time we had on, in 1997, 1998, on argin and butyrate and isobutyramide.
That seems like a crazy thing. I just opened a medical center. That seems like a big undertaking.
Like, how did that, what made you want to do that? Yeah, well, I mean, like any other parent,
you're going to do whatever you can do for your child. There are some exceptions. Don't get me
wrong. I mean, I guess they're not all our great parents, but like any normal parent, I don't
consider myself any different. I want to do the best I could and I was lucky. Like I told you,
I was on an Oprah Winfrey for Rags to Riches. So I had cake, you know, and I could afford to do it.
And I didn't want my son hospitalized. So I said, what's my alternative? I'll bring him to Italy
where he doesn't need to be hospitalized. He can live a more normal life. And I wanted to help others
and I wanted to push ahead to research. So I started a company in 1993. From 1995 to 2004,
I was partners with John Walton of Walmart. I mean, really, John, great guy. He died in 2005,
I believe. But John and his wife had a son, Lucas, who, thank God, today is 34. He had a
horrible disease called Wilms tumor. They wanted to cut off half of his lungs. But we had, in
Argentinbuterate, an application for Wilms tumor. So the Walton family invested like 20 million
with me. You know, they invested 20 million and took over our project. And we were partners from
1995 to 2004 in Beacon Pharmaceuticals. And then John said, look, his son actually went to Mexico
and, you know, ate herbs and did all of these kind of holistic things that never took out his lung.
And there's a healthy man today. And John called me up one day. I was on the trading floor in
Chicago and he said, Pat, you know what? My son is doing fine. And I want you to go help Little
Rocco. I'm going to give you Beacon. Just like that. 20 million. All of the patents we had in there.
He gave it to me. Just like that.
Just handed you the whole entire company.
Just that. And I was negotiating with Memorial Sloan Kettering because I knew that gene therapy
would cure my son. Antsicle cell disease. That will see me as my son's disease. I knew it.
When you say gene therapy, what exactly do you mean?
So when we talk about gene therapy for us, we basically take the HIV virus and we disarm it.
So now it's an empty school bus. And we put the gene that we want to get into the patient,
the defected gene, in our case, the beta-globin gene. And we make a bunch of school buses with a
bunch of beta-globin genes in them. Then we take stem cells from the patients and we incubate them
with the beta-globin gene, which is in the school bus. This is called a lentiviral vector,
the HIV vector. It gets into the stem cells and we give them back to the patient.
He or she is asymptomatic. They're cured. And there's been almost 100 people now cured that way.
Cured with no recurrences of anything?
Yes. No symptoms or anything?
I mean, for four or five, six years. We actually treated three patients from 2012 to 2015 with
Memorial Sloan Kettering using our product. And two out of three of those patients,
after nine years, have reductions in transfusions of 43%. Now, having said that, that product was
made in 2009. Today, if we make that product, which we're making it now at the University of
Tennessee and Southern Illinois University with doctors Andy Wilbur and Frank Park,
Christopher Ballas. These are our people. We're going to cure our patients.
Wow, that's fascinating. And so, what currently are you doing with your medical center in Italy?
My medical center in Italy is my son's restaurant.
We close the medical center.
Yeah, we close the medical center when he no longer could do the experimental medicine.
When he couldn't be hooked up to this pump with all of this copious amounts of water going into
him for 16 hours a day or whatever it was. And they discovered the antibodies for AIDS and
hepatitis C. So our blood is infinitely more secure today. So my son still transfuses every 20
days. He does an iron chelation. And we close the medical center because it wasn't needed any
longer for that. And today he has a restaurant inside of it. So he does a blood transfusion
every how many days? 20 days. 20 days. What is that like? Well, it's, wow. I mean, there's no
expression or no words that can give you a real feeling of what it's like sitting there and watching
the kind of blood come out of this little plastic sack and going into your son's body.
But it's a lifesaver. And there are a lot of people that have it a hell of a lot worse.
Yeah, I can't imagine what that must be like to have to do that every 20 days.
Think of the sickle cell disease patients who luckily my son doesn't go through the horrible,
horrible strokes. And I mean, kids, even five, six, seven years old, just excruciating pain
because their red blood cells are sickling and blocking up their veins and their capillaries.
And just unimaginable pain. And there's no way to know when they're going to come.
And I mean, it's just incredible. And let's hope we're hoping we believe that
the lentiviral vectors like ours need to have an insulator. Now Bluebird Bio,
the company that sabotaged my product actually, is trying to get approved. And the FDA will let
them know shortly if they will or not be approved. They're asking $2.1 million per patient, which is
ridiculous, by the way, just ridiculous. And they say, well, sickle cell costs $150,000 a year
to treat a patient. So in 15 years, we got our money back. That's not right. Then they'll try to
say, well, it costs so much to make medicine. No, it doesn't. It costs so much to give the corrupt
CEOs and the minions all of the money and all of the funds that are dishing all of the money out
to get their money back and to do their pyramid schemes with the stock market. Yeah, that costs
millions and billions maybe. But it's not that the research costs that kind of money.
Yeah, and that's another thing. A lot of these big pharmaceutical corporations,
especially when you talk about companies like Pfizer or whatever, they have people working for
them that are ex FDA or former or people that are like wearing two half they work for the FDA and
they work for the pharmaceutical company. Yeah, I mean, it's not a huge problem.
Well, it's a conflict of interest. I was on a show the other night and the guy was trying to
rebut me a little bit. And he said, well, wasn't it just a big conflict of interest? And I said,
yeah, it was a conflict of interest. Bluebird Bio wanted to make more wanted to make money
more than they wanted to cure people. And that was the conflict. But in the end, if we go back
and look in our recent history, viacs, right, Merck, right, they knew that people on viacs
had a multiple time, more chance, I believe was six to get heart attacks than the people who didn't
take viacs. And they let it go. They ended up being fine $950 million because they were caught
red handed. Then we go to Paxil. 2012, they were fine $3 billion. That was GSK. And GSK knew that
Paxil was creating suicidal thoughts and adolescence. And they hit it. We had at least 100,000 kids
commit suicide that came off of Paxil. And then we got the best one of them all, Oxycontin,
the Sackler family, Purdue. And what, you know, what is our government doing? They're letting
them go. Yeah, isn't there something recent in the news with them? Didn't they just have to,
didn't they just $4 billion are going to end up doing a deal, you know, because they basically
told the government, if you go after us personally, right, you know, we're going to bank up Purdue,
you're never going to get us anyway. But we'll give you $4 billion. So, you know,
they're worth $14 billion. So they give $4 billion up. And they have the art institutes with their
names on it and all of them. They don't spend one day in jail. I mean, what's the pain of one
parent, of one brother, sister, who lost a kid to Oxycontin? They were making drug addicts out
of these kids purposely. You know, we talk about the United States, which is a bit peculiar when
we talk about the world, because we have all these mass shootings. Well, 70% of them are created by
people under 21. Well, why are they doing that? Because they're on Paxil, because they were on
Ritalin, because we're drugging our kids. And then when they're coming out of drugs,
they don't know, I mean, their chest screwed up in the head. And our drug companies are doing that
to make all this money. And then what do they do? They get machine guns, they buy guns, whatever
it is. I mean, I'm not a big NRI guy, but it is true that guns don't kill people do. I mean,
I lived in Switzerland for a while. Every family must own a rifle, because World War One, they made
the law and they have to own a rifle. Really? Sure. Still? Still. Wow, I didn't know that.
Yeah. And every person has to go to the military, because it's a tiny country surrounded by Russia
and Germany and Italy and France and all of that. They're not killing anybody. You know,
what's going on? We're turning all of our kids. And by the way, our adults, I mean,
I think, you know, the average 60 year olds on seven different drugs, I mean, we're turning
everybody into drug addicts. And what are the pharma companies doing in the last 10 years?
They siphon $20 billion to our politicians who let them get away with it. And in the end,
I say, you know, we've got to make all of our congressmen and our senators, when they're on
television and when they're in Congress and at the Senate, they've got to wear NASCAR outfits
so we can see who's writing the checks. You know, I want to see, oh, why did they vote that way?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Look at Pfizer gave them 100,000 last year. You know, and I mean, the United
States is a great place. Fill the wonderful, wonderful people. Is that George Carlin who said
that? It might have been whoever said it, but it was a great thing. That was great. Yeah. But I mean,
you know, come on with all of this. I mean, you know, we're a great country. How do we let,
you know, these corrupt rations? And by the way, now they're hand in hand with Black Lives Matter,
Me Too and LGBTQ. They're all just one happy family, raping and pillaging the country. I mean,
it's nuts. Yeah. Yeah. A huge problem too. Not just like the opiates are a huge problem, obviously,
but another thing is the Ritalin and Adderall are fucking insane. I don't know. I could count on one
hand the people I know that aren't on that. Yeah, they're finding it in the in the in the water
supplies. I mean, I mean, it's nuts. And these people aren't going to jail. They're going to
the country club. Stuff is so fucking bad for you. It's unbelievable how bad that shit is for you.
That is not how you're supposed to that. It drains the fucking dopamine out of your brain
to where if you don't have it, you're just a fucking blob of nothing. And then all you can
think about is getting more. It's so fucking addictive and so bad. I think it's I think there's
not much difference from Adderall than actual meth, like pure meth. Yeah, it's it's crazy. I mean,
you know, look at we, you know, there's a great book I read one time was called Sykes and he said
that the the downfall of the United States of America came in 1959 when they opened Disney
World. He said because we came from a country that we knew we had to work hard. We had to get
married, have children, suffer sacrifice and die to a country doesn't want to have children,
doesn't want to sacrifice will spend the last money not to die and life's all about having
good time. And I say, for example, that the worst song ever made now I'm a singer songwriter, I've
done a lot of good songs and bad songs. I'm not sure you'd like them all. But I always say the
worst song ever made was done by Whitney Houston, when she's saying that the greatest love of all
is happening to me. Learn to love yourself. It's the greatest love of all. There's never been
such a horrible song written. That's not what it's about. It's about loving other people,
not loving yourself, you know, and then they started saying, Well, if you don't love yourself,
you can't love others and all of these corporations are trying to sell you an iPhone
and trying to sell you make up and trying to sell you a gym shoes. Love yourself,
you're okay. You can you can get fat. That's right. We're gonna make mannequins that look
fat now. And don't worry about it. You know, you put on 30 pounds, get a tattoo, you put on 60,
get two tattoos. I mean, it's just it's incredible. It's nuts. You were dealt this hand. You're a man
or you're a woman. You're a boy or your girl. You're bald or you're you're you've got freckles
or your dark skinned or your light skinned or you were born with defective fingers or whatever.
You're not a goddamn victim. You're a human being. And you end up having to play the best
hand you can with the cards you were dealt. Stop all this nonsense. Oh, now I'm a woman or now I'm
a man. No, you're not. You mutilated yourself and you're nuts. Right. Going back, how did
you get in trouble with the FBI? Okay, so the first time in 1989, which is another reason
why I ended up in Italy, Cargill, I think was Cargill, went to the no, Archer McDaniels,
maybe went to the FBI and they said, you know, we're getting ripped off from McDonald's. There
are this huge company that owns more farmland probably than anyone in the world. More than
Bill Gates? Just maybe not. Anyway, there were some complaints that at the Chicago Board of Trade,
they were being ripped off. And the government decided to go infiltrate the Board of Trade
in the Mercantile Exchange with FBI agents who bought memberships, lied about their names,
and it's hilarious. They actually bought memberships. And it's great because when you signed
to buy a membership, it said that anything that you say must be the truth. And if not,
you're breaking the law. So the FBI did that and they infiltrated the exchange floors
and they started getting people, trapping people, and trapping to break the rules.
And luckily for me, I got a call and it was from a higher up guy, not in the FBI, but
in the administration at the Board of Trade in the Mercantile Exchange. And he said,
Pat, come to my office. I said, yeah. My firm, Bridgeport Securities, we were like the largest
soybean traders in the soybean option pit at the time. He said, the FBI's on the floor.
And we had heard rumors about it, but the president of the Board of Trade in the Merc
denied that they were there. And so nobody kind of thought it was just rumors. I left the next day
for Italy. And in fact, they took one of the guys that worked for us. He actually didn't work
for us. He was on our company insurance and he filled paper in the soybean pit. They went
to his house at three o'clock at night, scared him, scared his kids, said, if you don't flip,
you're going to go to jail. You'll lose your wife. She'll divorce you. You'll never see your kids.
And his name is Tom. I won't give his last name. He ended up going and doing five years in jail.
His wife divorced him while he was in jail. Of course, he didn't see his kids.
And they got him for what was called bucket trading. Bucket trading? Yeah, it's a joke.
So at the end of the trading day at 1.15, brokers would end up having orders to buy and sell.
And if they were time stamped before 1.1430, that broker had to fill that order. So it was a
big risk for him. So he would walk around the pit and say, hey, Pat, I got to buy six. And we'd say,
oh, sold you six. We'd use the price of the clothes, but it was a way of transferring risk
from the floor broker, who for the most part didn't make a lot of money on these commissions.
And we transferred the risk to traders, trader groups like my own. He ended up doing five years
for it. It was just a joke. And that was the first time I went to Italy. So my son was born in 90.
Then my second son in 91. The FBI made a bunch of phone calls to my office. They didn't try to
extradite me. Back then, I think it would have been a more difficult. And I was, like I said,
I was on Oprah. I was in Playgirl Magazine in 89. They wanted a guy like me, a big fish.
What were they talking about? What was Oprah talking to you about?
Rags Rich's story. And it was great. I didn't graduate from high school. I ended up one of the
bigger traders in Chicago history. And it was great. And I remember she said, when did you know,
did you know when growing up that you do something big in life? And I said, well, yeah,
I thought I might do something big. I didn't know it would be legal. And she laughed. And that was
cute and all of that. And then a couple of years later, I was back on there for famous American
chauvinist because I think it was Janet Davies from ABC or somebody after I was in Playgirl,
said, you know, you want to get married. And I said, yeah. And they said, well,
tell us what kind of a girl were you marrying? I said, well, I'd like her to be a virgin. Oh,
my God, the hate male I got. And oh, why would you want what you said you really wanted to date
over a Mary a virgin? Yes, I did. Really? Because what do you want to marry a porn star? I mean,
you want to marry Hooker? I mean, I mean, there's a it's not one or the other. There's a there's
an in between there. Well, yeah, wouldn't you like a woman who has only ever been with you?
Wouldn't a woman like a man who has ever only ever been with them? I mean, I would say no.
Okay, but again, I would say you'd want somebody who had some experience knew what they were doing.
Well, you know what? I think differently. I would have liked to have a woman who had only been with
me. Okay. And maybe that was an old fashioned idea. You know, a lot of times they use that
maybe it died with the Virgin, Virgin bride. But you know, I'm, I'm talking about me, right?
Because I said that it ended up it got me invited Oprah Winfrey the second time as a famous American
show. Wow. That's what got you invited. Yeah, yes, definitely. That's what got me invited. Because
like I said, I was on Janet Davies show ABC. I can't remember what it was for, you know, famous
American bachelors. And that's what got me on. Wow. And you've been and how long and then when
you moved there to Italy in 90, you said? Yeah. Yes. In 89, I left for a couple of years. And then
we moved back my son did experimental medicine. But because of that, we moved back to Italy. So
well, we cemented us there. So when you moved to Italy, you basically retired? No, I mean, I'm the,
you know, I'm the founder of the pharmaceutical company, San Rocco Therapeutics, which is like my
full time thing. But I'm also singer, songwriter. But that started after when you're after your
son was born. Yes. So I was your plan when you moved to Italy. Yeah. So I went to Italy because
I knew the markets were going electronic. So Europe had the first electronic markets. So we
were trading on the soft fix, which was the Swiss options futures exchange and the Eurex,
which first was a Deutsch-Termin Borscher and then the Eurex. So we were already
invading Europe because we thought that it would go all go electronic. So we had American
traders in Europe and going back and forth. And then when I found out in 18, so we already had
operations there. But then in 89, when we found out the FBI was entrapping people on the Chicago
Board of Trade, I left because I knew they wanted to guide just like me. And there's nothing good
you can do for anyone when the FBI questions you. You're not going to help anyone because they
don't want to help you. They don't want the truth. They just want to put people in jail. Exactly.
So they can get promotions or they, you know, whatever it is. So and then when my son, my
oldest two sons were born there, and then eventually the third was born there as well. But
then we were doing experimental medicine in the United States and decided we had to stay in Italy
so that my son could do the experimental medicine. And so then there we were. And then the second
FBI investigation happened in around 98. I think it was called Operation Ghost Payroll or something,
if I'm not mistaken, or Great Lord, whatever it was. But I had an Italian American who I helped
fund to become a senator, state senator and committeeman in the southwest side of Chicago.
And he eventually got investigated. And I was the money behind him, supposedly. It was a great
story, by the way. It was an all Polish ward. He was Italian, you know, like I'll never forget. I
went to the committeeman at the time who was Polish, of course, but living full time in Florida
and telling him, yeah, we want to get Bobby. Bobby is going to become, you know, the committeeman.
And he was like 83. So he didn't care. And, you know, we said, we'll have a party for you,
make at least 100,000 at your political party, we'll hire your daughter. And he still thought
it was a joke that we'd never get an Italian elected in an all Polish ward. And then on the
deadline of the election, the genius behind it all named Greg got seven people. So the guy we went
against, I can't remember his name, I'm going to say it was Kowalsak. So the day that you had to
have your name in the election, we had seven other people join. And their name was Kowalski,
Kowalska, Kowski. So it ended up being one Italian name against seven Polish names.
The seven Polish got less than, you know, 10 or 12% each, and the Italian got elected.
Well, for some other reasons, there ended up being a big investigation
into corruption at City Hall in Chicago. Surprise, surprise. And I decided to leave again.
What was the reason for the investigation? They claimed that people weren't working.
Who claimed? The government claimed that people were being paid, but not working. So I'm pretty
sure it was called the ghost payroll project or ghost payroll. And actually, one of my close
friends went away for about five and a half years because a Polish woman said that he sold her a
liquor license, actually. So that was part of the investigation. Could have been, you know,
when the FBI gets involved, they throw everything out there. It's anything they can throw at you,
they do. But that was the second time that I was involved. And so you invaded them successfully?
Yeah, I mean, you know what, I wasn't, I wasn't the, what do you call it, the target. They were
targeting mostly politicians. And I went to Italy. But the crazy thing was that when my friend Greg,
I was an alto, I was an alto motor, my town, he was going to court. The Polish woman shows up
that he supposedly sold the liquor license to. They asked her to get up and put her hand on his
shoulder. She puts her hand on his attorney's shoulder and we're figuring we're all done.
But instead, unfortunately, one of the Chicago politicians, Alderman, who had a heart condition
ended up collaborating with the FBI and signed a lot of documents saying that Greg did this,
Greg did this, Greg did this, Greg did this. Greg gets convicted anyway. And then he needed
to straighten things out with his family. He had his three children living with him. They were
14 years old, 10 to 14 years old. I send a check for 25,000 to make sure that he can
stay outside what between the time he was convicted and the time that they give him
the sentencing, you know, where he's going to go and how much time. And the FBI stands up in
court and says, I'm a mobster hiding in Italy. Greg is going to fly to Italy. I mean, Greg was
Polish. I mean, it wasn't, you know, it doesn't speak Italian. I don't have no idea what he's
going to do in Italy. But the FBI objected to me putting up the money for him to have that time
to get his family in order, you know, so it's kind of crazy stuff.
How would they say you're a mobster? Did you ever have any kind of connections to the mob?
You know, what I grew up in Bridgeport, it was if you watched the film Casino,
you got the two guys that got killed at the end, the Spelaccio brothers, I think they called them
Santoro brothers, you know, my ex-wife went to school with their daughter, one of their daughters.
And the neighborhood was all those guys that, you know, supposedly ran the, you know, Las Vegas
back at the time, which they did, by the way. And, you know, then the government decided to
give it to the corrupt rations. So they knocked them out of there. But yeah, I mean, you know,
people could say anything. I, you know, I, I was in the military. I tried to be a good guy. All of
my money was made legally. I have my, you know, I found my taxes every year, but people could say
anything. So you never actually got popped or did any time for anything at all? No, I've been arrested
for a bunch of stuff, mostly kids stuff. What, uh, what gave you the confidence that you could
come back to the U S and not have any heat on you? Uh, I waited the time, you know, so I would wait
the couple of years and then come back. Uh, one time it was hilarious. Um, Joe Farrell, my attorney,
I was, every time I would come back after I bailed Greg out, uh, the judge, eventually, by the way,
said that the FBI, okay, you know, I have to listen to the FBI. So Mr. Gironde, you have to get to me,
you know, five letters of recommendation and your last three years of your tax returns,
I need to know where that money is coming from that you're going to bail Mr. Swan out with.
And, um, I eventually wrote a letter to the judge myself and I said, dear your honor, you know,
I'm an American citizen. I'm proud to be an American citizen. I served in the military.
And when I was growing up, we were taught that you don't, don't turn your back on your friends.
And Mr. Swan needs to put, I'm sorry, I said his name, uh, Greg needs to put his house in order.
And, uh, I was told that if I put the money up, I would have trouble with the IRS and possibly the
FBI, but I'm a true American and I'm not turning my back on my friend. And I kind of think that that
was the letter the judge said, yeah, that sold it and got it home. And in fact, I was audited
seven out of nine in next years. Every time I came to the United States, they stopped me at the
border and they made me miss my flights. And it was one of the times I was in one of these little
classrooms and on the thing it says, if you feel that your rights are being abused, call 1-800,
whatever. And I copied the number down. I called one of my attorneys, Joey Farrell,
they said, Joe, do me a favor, call these morons. I mean, what are they doing? I was on my way to
Miami. They made me miss my flight again. You know, every time they're, they're messing with me, you
know. So about a week later, Joe calls me, he says, uh, Pat, I, uh, I talked to the FBI.
I said, okay, they're gonna stop messing with me. Well, I don't, I don't think so. Well, what did
they say? Well, they said that they know what they're doing and that if I'm representing a piece
of shit like you, that I must be a piece of shit as well. And that I have two kids
and a law practice. And basically told me that if I didn't stop representing you,
that I would also have trouble. And I said, Joey, I love you, you're a great guy. Forget about it.
And that's it. I forgot about it. Didn't call them anymore. But that's exactly what happened.
And in 2001, one of my best friends committed suicide. He worked for me.
Terry, great guy, grew up together. He committed suicide. And at the time, his mother just passed
away. He wasn't married. And we were going through a, getting a banking license in Switzerland.
He was under a lot of pressure. And he did what he did. And, uh,
in 2003, that was when Joey Farrell, two years after Terry was dead, by the way,
that was when Joey Farrell went to the FBI and, or the FBI, the government and said,
look, you know, I got to fill out this form because you're messing with my client. Well,
when they do that, the FBI has 10 years to come back and let you know what happened in the investigation.
So I was in, uh, on vacation in Florida, 2013. My brother, George, he just passed away.
He was a little bit down. And I got a call from a friend of mine. He goes, you know,
I got a book at my house that came in your name. And I said, oh yeah, ship it to me. I'm in Miami.
I get it. I open it up. It's not a book. It's a pamphlet. It's an FBI pamphlet. So it was 2013.
They had to, by law, 10 years later, let them, let me know that I was the subject of an investigation.
When my close friend, Terry, committed suicide, I was in Italy.
The FBI investigated me for murder. They followed me around 2002 and 2001 and 2003.
They had almost every single thing was blacked out, but you could get little glimpses of here
and there and they had to send it to me. Who knows how much money they spent on doing something so
stupid. What did you have to do to get this? What was it, like an FBI report or something?
Right. So when Joe filed and said, I think that my clients' rights are being infringed upon,
right, of being abused, he filled out the paperwork before he started dancing with them.
And so they have 10 years and they must let you know the results within 10 years.
And so they send it on the 10th year all the time. And so I got it in 2013.
I mean, I mean, I've been brought tears in my eyes. And they redacted parts.
The whole thing is reacted. I mean, I never even read the whole thing. I got it sitting
in my home in Italy, actually. I never sat down and said, I'm going to concentrate on this.
It was just so absurd. I mean, forget about the waste of taxpayers' money. But you know,
this is coming because in 89, maybe they wanted me and I went to Italy and they called me and I
said, I'll be there next week. I'll be there next week. I'll be there next week. And maybe they
thought I was pulling their leg. Then in 97, 98, whenever it was, they wanted me again. And I said,
oh, I'll be there next week. I'll be there next month. Whatever. So then, okay, this happens.
Well, oh, yeah, but didn't that guy work for Girondi? Well, okay, you know who Girondi is.
One thing leads to another. And the morons are investigating for murder like one of my best
friends. They were trying to pin it on you. Right. I mean, it's just absurd. And don't get me wrong.
I know a couple FBI agents that are great guys, by the way. Phil is a close friend of mine. I love
him, you know, and he's a retired FBI guy. And there's a lot of great guys and there's a lot of
great congressmen and a lot of great congressmen and a lot of great politicians, etc. It's just
unfortunate that greed ends up being one of the strongest characteristics in humans. And so what
happens? Who goes to the top? The greediest politicians. Who goes to the top? The greediest FBI
guys. Who goes to the top? The greediest executives. And the result is, you know, I always say that the
modern father of the United States of America is Benito Mussolini. Why? Well, because he invented
fascism. Because Benito thought he was a country guy. He was a, you know, a greedy guy. But he thought
if I get industry together with the politicians, it'll be the best country in the world,
will be efficient, and will protect the, will protect the workers, right, from industry
with politicians. So the politicians will make sure that industry won't take over and abuse
the workers. And that's fascism. And in the United States, that's what we have. The industry
owns the politicians today, but the politicians don't protect the people because they sell them
out to the industry. So in the end, Benito Mussolini is, you know, the father of modern day America.
That kind of permeates through every big industry. They just are constantly trying to create products
to make more money. And it kind of is the same thing with big pharma,
where they're not necessarily trying to innovate or make things better for people
or better humanity. They're just trying to make more money and make more profit.
Yeah. I mean, unfortunately, that's the exact truth. I mean, I drive, when I'm in Florida,
I bought a 2009 Sebring convertible. I paid $6,500. In Italy, I drive a 1996 Fiat. No,
don't get me wrong. I got a nice house in Italy, et cetera. But, you know, I'm Catholic. And I was
taught that we're all brothers and sisters. And a lot of our patients are Muslim. A lot of our
patients are Hindus. A lot of our patients are Africans, et cetera. And, you know, for me, being
Catholics are the easiest thing in the world because, you know, I was taught from the time I
was a little kid that, you know, we're all brothers and sisters, man. And you have to
take care of your brother and your sister. So, but you just don't have a lot of that going on.
Instead, what you have is, unfortunately, Amazon, who's paying their drivers $20 an hour, you know,
and I mean, I'd like to see Bezos come and try to load one of those trucks. I mean, you know,
what kind of crazy world did we ever get into where we've got people that have, you know,
billions of dollars, and then we have people that can't afford health care in the same country?
I mean, that's like wacko. I mean, at least in Europe, Italy in particular, you know,
we have social medicine. Thank God you break your leg. They don't care what your name is,
you go and you get it fixed. I mean, how can we be one of the greatest countries in the world?
We don't have social medicine. And what is all this craziness about, you know, people taking
out loans to go to school? I mean, what is that? And then you're making them pay 8% juice on going
to school. I mean, you know, my kid Chico, he's an architect today. You know, he's in Italy,
born and raised in Italy, not the sharpest knife in the drawer. You know, first he wanted to be
an economist and then he decided not to be an economist after two years, then he decided to
be an architect. It's free. He went seven years. One year he went to Portugal, one year he went
to Germany. They paid him to go to school in Portugal and Germany. Didn't cost me a nickel.
Wow. And at the same time, I mean, here we are in the United States of America, these poor people
I've got one of my nieces or nurses, they're still paying back student loans. And we say,
we're the most powerful, strong, best nation in the world.
Well, we may not have good college or free college may cost a fortune to go to college.
It may cost a fortune to get decent medical care. But at least we have the strongest
military in the world, the most nukes, right? Isn't that crazy? There's a silver lining to
all of this. Patrick. You know what? I had that argument with a woman at one time. I was in a,
at least we could kill everybody if we needed to. That's right. She told me we could kill everybody
30 times. And she was very proud of that, by the way. I just wanted to let you know that.
And don't get me wrong, there's no perfect place, you know, not China, not Japan, not Italy, not,
no, no place. Everybody has their whole problems. And that's because guess what? We're all human.
And even though we'd like to put, I was reading an article about this 30 year old teacher, a woman
who got caught making out with a 17 year old student. And instead of giving her an award,
you know, they talk about teaching sex education at school. I mean, maybe she taught him how to
kiss better. She's going to jail. I mean, out of your, out of your, are you out of your freaking
mind? I mean, I don't, I get it. You don't, you want to fire her because maybe teachers shouldn't
be doing that. But what good do you get out of throwing her in jail for something so crazy?
Isn't Italy doing some wacky shit with, with COVID?
Yes. And my good friend is the head of the health department in Italy named Franco Locatelli. And
I love him. He's the head of the health department. Yes. He is the highest ranking doctor in the
health department. Really? And he's from Bergamo, from Bergamo. And he talks like this even when
he speaks in English or Italian and everybody makes fun of him. But he's a great guy. I love him.
And he's just really well-intentioned and believed that, you know, he hook, line, and sinker that
you've got to wear masks. You've got to do a vaccine. And you know, one of the worst problems
they had in Italy in the beginning, I don't know if you, you know this. So we were one of the first
countries to get back and we were putting people on ventilators. Well, guess what? When you put an
85-year-old man or woman on a ventilator, they're not coming off. Right. Now we don't use ventilators
anymore, by the way. But in the beginning, we had the most deaths out of anyone. But in the end,
was it really COVID? Yeah, it was COVID, I guess. But it kind of was because we were putting all
these people on ventilators. So almost the healthcare system was too good because we were able to
treat all these people on ventilators where a lot of delays, they don't have that many ventilators.
So Italy did some wacky stuff, in my opinion. And I could be wrong, by the way. And I love Franco.
Forgive me, Franco, because I know that you've got hundreds of thousands, if not millions of
people that listen to your podcast. Oh, he's got a podcast. No, your podcast. Oh, my podcast. I
thought he said Franco had one. Yeah, and I don't know if Franco will do it. But, you know, a lot
of good intentioned people. And I've got a guy, Johnny Tisdale, I love him in all my heart. Works
at the NIH. He worked for years with Fauci or worked, has experience with him, etc. And Johnny
almost screamed to yell at me when I tried to say, well, Johnny, I'm not sure that the vaccine helped.
What do you mean they don't help? They do help. And everybody should wear a mask. And you know
what, maybe he's right. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe the people that think the masks don't work are wrong.
And maybe the people that think the masks work are right. And maybe the people that think you
should get vaccinated are right. I don't know. But I just think we should all make the best decisions
we can and leave the dollar bills out of it. Best decisions for ourselves, not for other people
necessarily. Yeah, I mean, oh, God, is that that's a hard one too. Oh, my God. What a hard one.
What is the rules? Is there a rules? Are you have to be vaccinated to go to Italy? Yes, you do. I
think they just the other day cut it out. But up until the other day, and it might still be going
on. Can you find out Austin? This kid travels to more countries than anybody ever fucking
known this kid. He's never available to run the podcast because he's always in some fucking
European country or some African island or something. Nice, Austin. So Austin, you should
know this. Weren't you just in Italy? No, Spain. Oh, Spain. But I think they are you vaccinated?
Oh, you got to be. Okay, no, without a doubt, you have to be back. You even got your own European
vaccine card. Do you have one of these? Yes, of course. Yes, I have one as well. Yeah.
So you need that to basically get around your in Chicago or in Italy. So I had a friend coming
from Croatia. And a kid I grew up with, by the way, that moved from Chicago to Croatia. Anyway,
and by the way, you want to hear that story, he got diagnosed with prostate cancer, three medical
centers in Chicago, Northwestern University, Chicago and Loyola. And he came to me says,
Pat, I got problems. I go, what's the problem? This six years ago, I got prostate cancer. Well,
how did you know that? Why did you go get tested? Well, because they say you should get tested
every year on 53 or 54. So I got tested. So wait a minute, stop. You out of the blue,
went and got tested for prostate cancer. Well, that's what you do in America, Pat. Okay, got it.
I got it. Okay. And they told you have it. Yeah, three centers told me, what are your systems,
Carl? What are your symptoms? I don't have any. Carl, I think you should go to Europe and get
to test there. So guess what? That's what he did. He went to Croatia and they said, you don't have
cancer. Really? You have an enlarged prostate. In the United States, this is what they're doing.
They're treating all and they've treated tens of thousands of men over the last 20 years
for prostate cancer. They made it a part of the protocol because you make a lot of money.
Was this during a routine checkup they told you this? No, he went to get it checked.
Okay. Prostate. That's a routine. The PSA number, which by the way, if you talk to the guy that
invented the PSA number, which Carl did, he said, I never invented that to have anything
to do with prostate cancer. But because of the corruption in the medical industry,
we've treated tens of thousands. I mean, 10 years ago, they'd say, if you live long enough,
you're going to die from prostate cancer. Every man guy said, I mean, it was all bullshit,
just like they did with the Caesareans, you know, in the 90s, you know, one out of four
births in the United States were pop Caesareans. So if you get diagnosed with prostate cancer,
what is the go-to treatment for that and who profits off that the most? This might be a dumb
question, but I don't know. I mean, prostate cancer, you know. Is there like a certain medication?
I mean, it's just chemotherapy and radiation. And then years of who knows what? I mean,
you'll be incontinent a lot of the times. I mean, it's just you turn into this cash register,
basically, for so many parts of the, you know, American medical society. I mean, I'm not kidding
you. I mean, I would almost tell anyone who ends up being diagnosed with prostate cancer to take
a trip somewhere else and, you know, get it checked as well, maybe Canada, maybe Mexico or whatever.
Again, you might have prostate cancer and I don't want to, you know, sugarcoat it. A lot of people
die from real prostate cancer, but a lot of people are being diagnosed with prostate cancer
when they have a enlarged prostate and not prostate cancer. But because the protocol says that the
doctor will be sued, if he doesn't basically tell the patient, look, you should get, you know,
chemo, we should do this, let's be safe, all that kind of stuff, you know, he can get sued and lose
his license, et cetera, for not following protocol. And since the pharma companies now are basically
writing the protocols, you're getting treated for prostate cancer, whether you have enlarged
prostate or your prostate cancer. Yeah, there's a weird thing about being diagnosed with things too,
especially like cancer, when you're told that you have something, it's kind of like,
there's a thing that happens, like a self-fulfilling prophecy where if you believe that you have a
disease, even if you don't have it, you can end up suffering from that very disease. Right, you
have it. Yeah, if you believe you have it, if you believe you have it, there's so many
do have it. Right, if you believe you have it, you do have it, the mind is such a powerful fucking
thing that, you know, if you get it, there's so many different variables from like depression
that sets in that just speeds up the, not only if you don't already have it, right, it's going to
speed up the process of death, and you believe you're going to die, like if somebody tells you
you have six months to live, a lot of times that will happen. Sure, sure, and I mean, look at the
numbers, you know, we spend 20% of the American budget, right, is for healthcare, but wait a
minute, the government's spending 20%, and yet we have all these people spending, I mean, I know,
I have friends spending $3,000 a month on their insurance, so not only are you paying out of
your pocket for your health insurance, the government's spending 20%, Italy spends 9.7%,
and we all have healthcare. Now, don't get me wrong, it's not perfect, there's some bad doctors,
there's some bad hospitals, et cetera, but the average Italians live in 82.7, the average American
78, 78.9. What are you talking about, 82.7? That's the, you know, mortality, so the average
Italian lives almost four years longer than the average American, yet the Italians are spending
9.7% of their budget on healthcare, the Americans are spending 20%, and then who knows how many
more trillions of dollars that the private person is spending on it, and we're living almost four
years less, this was up until the COVID, the COVID probably knocked things out of whack,
but up until COVID, so 2019, the average Italian was 82.7, the average American 78.9, so almost
four years longer, 5% of your life, if you lived in Italy, you live longer, and yet we're spending
probably five, six, seven times more on healthcare in the United States than we are in Italy.
What the fuck? It was that awesome. The thing happened.
It happened again. It's still happening. What'd you do?
Just change the audio on the audio output. I hope we're not like, you know, getting somebody
pissed off that's kind of like, you know, in a couple minutes or they get louder and then
maybe the whole place will explode or... No, no, no. Maybe it's the FBI listening in.
Yeah, whatever. And by the way, you know, I mean, I don't get me wrong. I'm not one of these
conspiracy guys, all that shit. I don't, but you know what? Unfortunately, each of us, if we have
a sick child, sick father, whatever it is, you know, you got to think about the words that I'm
saying and you can never be too careful. And, you know, when I have a problem in Italy, I go to my
coffee shop, right? And, hey, Miguel, port me a coffee. And then I watch for my doctor whose
office is right in front of my coffee shop. And I go, hey, Rafael, viennito, vienn, vienn.
And I say, Rafael, what the fuck is going on right up here? Look at about my belly button.
The fuck is that? Oh, Patricio, sembra que hay una ernia. You have a hernia. What the fuck?
What was it that was going to hurt me? I mean, Patricio, you know, you should probably get it
taken out. I mean, let me, let me push, you know, push, you want to hop in my van. Yeah, you know,
he says, you want a cafe, Rafael? Yeah, Miguel, get a cafe per d'autore. Okay. No,
it hurts like this. No, hurt like this. No, like that. Yes, that hurts. Okay, listen, Patricio,
you know, it's July. You don't want to get an operation in July, August, right? You know, come
he says, are you going to America anytime soon? Yeah, I'm going to leave when you leave in September,
when you come back, November, call me when you come back. Okay. And I go on, I get paid. Now,
Rafael probably makes $50,000, $60,000 a year as a doctor, as a doctor, as surgeons, doctors,
they make most of the same thing, you know, but their kids get free healthcare, their kids get
free universities. So I mean, you know, I don't know, what are they really making if you compare
to an American person, they don't pay any real estate tax on their house, by the way. Really?
Yes. But that's all Italian citizens, you don't pay no real estate tax on your first residence,
your second one, they stick it in your ass, but your first one, you know, but my point is,
what is the tax on the second one? Whatever, you know, we have kind of luxury taxes, it's kind of
with cars, if you can afford to buy a $10,000 car, you pay $10,000, if you can afford to buy
a $50,000 car, you pay $70,000, if you can afford to buy a Lamborghini, you're paying a million,
even though it costs $500,000, you know, we call it luxury tax. But even in the United States,
we had a reasonable system up until Ronald Reagan, you know, people loved Reagan, oh, he's a great
man, he's handsome, but, and I don't want to hurt break any of you guys' hearts, and I actually was
a delegate to the 1982 convention or 80 convention, I was a Democratic delegate, you know, and I wore
a button, Democrats for Reagan, you know, because I thought he was going to be great as well,
but I look back at the history of the United States, and I think that Ronald Reagan did two
of the worst things that any president ever did, and that was, he lowered the taxes from 70%,
so he basically took the money that the rich people were paying, and he put it on the middle
class, and then the other nasty thing he did was he went after the Air Traffic Control Union,
which was open game on the unions. Today the unions are, you know, we went from a country in 1980
that we had 34% of all of our employees were covered by unions, and the other 66% were treated
very fairly by their bosses, guess why? They didn't want unions. Exactly, the threat of it.
To today, less than 9% have unions, and they're all impotent, so when I look at the downfall of
the middle class in the United States of America, and by the way, it is really shot, it's Ronald
Reagan lowering the taxes of 70%, and I know I'm going to get a lot of even my buddies, you know,
because my buddies are, hey man, you know, it was the greatest time in the 90s, I made so much money,
man, and you're out of your mind, and you're a liberal, and you know, what are you talking about,
Ronald Reagan and John Wayne, and you know, I'm like, well, okay, you know, don't get me wrong,
I got nothing against either of them, but it was a real bad thing if we look at our country,
you know, when we took the burden of the taxes off of the wealthy, you know, and gave it to the poor,
and they say, wow, what do you want of those socialists, communists, and I'm like, yeah,
like Christ, he was a socialist and a communist, by the way, but let's think about it this.
Really? Yes, he was. Of course he was. He was a communist? Of course he was, he lived in a
commune, man, he lived with 12 unemployed guys, an ex-hooker, and they went from town to town,
they lived a communal life, and they begged for food, and they say, hey, you know, yes, he was.
I need to read the Bible so I don't sound like such an idiot on this podcast.
No, but I mean, yes, I mean, of course he was, you know, and he said, if you got two shirts,
give one away, you know, but you know, I talked to all my friends about it.
I always thought he was a capitalist, maybe we, maybe we, well, but you know what, in the end,
I always say that capitalism is great, fantastic, I'm a capitalist, but it's got to have a socialist
heart, you know, you know, you got guys like Warren Buffett and who knows, good, bad, I'm
not saying he's good or bad, he's saying, yeah, I pay more taxes than my, than my, what do you
call it, my waitress, or what do you call it, the people in the house, my servants, my maids,
maids, I mean, yeah, they give them good names, but they're basically servants or whatever,
housekeeper, you know, I pay more taxes, and I'm telling you, we've got to go back to the
old system, and all you guys who want to debate me, okay, I say, yes, we should all pay the same
amount of taxes, all right, so up until 50,000, nobody pays any taxes, nobody, between 50 and 150,000,
we all pay 15%, between 150 and 400, we pay 25, between 500,000 or 400,000 and seven, we pay
50%, and between 10 million and up, you pay 90%, and they say, well, that's socialist, no, no, no,
no, I'm saying we all pay the same amount of taxes, we just don't all make 10 million dollars a year,
but if a guy paid 90% and made 10 million, he'd make a million dollars cash a year,
so what, what's so bad about that, what's so hard about that?
Yeah, well, there's so many creative loopholes.
Unless there is, but that's what I'm saying, make it that way, and then guess what, when every American
citizen has healthcare, when every American citizen has the universities and all that, you know what,
we can think about changing our tax system, but until then, we should be very embarrassed
that the greatest nation, and in a lot of ways, we are the greatest nation, right, you know,
I mean, you got the Statue of Liberty, man, bring me your trudge, then bring me your criminals,
and bring me your downtrodden, and whatever it says on that, you know, and we got more people
locked up, I think, than any country, right? Yeah, we got 3% of the population basically either locked
up or on parole. Yeah, that's crazy, man. That's something to be proud of, but come on, Danny.
There are, okay, I agree, and it's crazy, and it's even crazy because a lot of these jails are now
for profit, that's how you had back in Philadelphia about 15 years ago, two judges who were getting
$10,000 for every kid they thought they threw into, you know, whatever, but it is a great country,
Danny, it is a wonderful country, filled with like 90% of the people are like bread and butter,
like salt to the earth, great people, it's just that you got these right now, by the way, you've
got, you know, MeToo, LGBTQ, XYZ, you know, and BLM, and they're like, you know, running the country,
and they got the corporate corruptrations, which are giving them tens of millions of dollars and
20s of millions of dollars, and they're ripping the whole nation apart, by the way, and it's not a
free place, but the problem is that the average guy and woman who are working very hard to put
their kids through school, they don't have time to like get out on the streets and protest, and
they don't, you know, they just want to raise their kids, and I get that, and the politicians
have sold out to the special interest groups, and those special interest groups are terrorist
organizations, in my opinion. Yeah, well, it's all the left, the left wing party uses those sort of
like cultural, you know, LGBTQ, BLM, those sort of like social justice causes,
to, they kind of weaponize those causes for themselves to fight the right, you know, because
the right is sort of like, they're ingrained in, in, you know, business, and finance, and sort of
like the big money stuff. It's about money. And the left really had nothing, I mean, that sort of
like happened, what did that, that happened in the 60s, right, when the left sort of took
art and culture, and sort of, that's what, that's what Malcolm X's famous speech was about, how the,
he talks about the white liberal versus the white conservative, how the difference between the white
liberal and the white conservative, the only difference between them, is that the white liberal
is more deceitful, because they weaponize art, and they weaponize culture and music, and they
sexuality, sexuality, all that stuff to try to, you know, fight the
the conservatives. Yeah, and it's just all a political game. And they use the, he said, they
use the black man as a pawn in their game to, to fight the other party. Oh yeah. And, you know,
I've got, you know, I mean, I'll tell you a little story. When I was 15, I worked in a hospital
kitchen. It was Northwestern University Hospital in Chicago. And I, you know, went into the hospital
kitchen. I was the only light-skinned guy that worked in the hospital. I really also dark-skinned,
and I had this guy, Kevin, and I definitely won't say his last name. I said, I had Kevin, he was
like three years older than me, tall, lanky guy, hated my guts, and tried to beat me up. And I had
this big dark-skinned woman on the, the bread line, bread line, or the food line, you know, they put
on jello, and they put on fish, and they put on corn, and they put on green beans, and all of that,
and they all wore these smocks, you know, you could hardly see her faces, and all of these big white
dresses, and all of that. And she protected me from this guy, and she was just incredible. And
I was at the hospital. I worked there for about a year, year and a half, and luckily for this woman,
you know, she saved me, and I was less terrorized. And years later, there's this, I had a priest
named Father Frawley. He told me about this black kid, wanted to become a priest. I helped the black
kid. I paid for four years of his high school education. He lives in Tampa now. He's one of
my closest friends. His name is Derek, and just a great guy. And Derek called me in maybe 2013
or 14. He says, where you at? And I says, hey, little brother, I'm in Chicago by, you know, he
says, oh, good, you got to come to my, my mother's funeral. She died. And I said, oh, jeez. And I
had met his mother a couple of times. I said, Derek, jeez, you know, I'm really sorry. Where's
it at? 50th in state. I'll come to 50th in state at the church. So I go to the church, and I see
my old boss from the hospital kitchen. Ross just lame was. And I said, Ross, what's going on? You
know, what's, you know, Pat, we are so proud of you. We saw you on Oprah Winfrey show. And, you
know, and I said, yeah, I'm really sorry. I never came back to say hi to you. But you know, a lot of
years had passed and all that. And I said, but you know what, this is finally time for me to make
amends to big mama, because that's what everybody called her, the woman who saved my ass from Kevin
so many times. I said, do you think she'll show up at the funeral today? Or can you give me her
address? Hey, look at me funny. He said, Pat, this is big mama's funeral. I never knew that the kid
I paid for his high school education, I helped them through college. I never knew that when I was
15, it was his mother who saved my ass. And all of this craziness about, you know, outside of Chicago,
they got a couple of suburbs I read today that are going to start getting based on your skin color,
they're going to give you different grading system because they're going to try to make up from
whatever happened. Yeah. And it's insanity. You're ruining these children. You are using these
children. You are abusing these children. Where did you hear this? It's two suburbs in Chicago.
I think one is River Forest and the other one is Oak Park. But they're doing in different states
where they're going to start using the grading system, using different grading system based on
the color of your skin. Wow. Kind of affirmative action. Do you hear about the school in Colorado
that had designated playtime for children of color?
It's, there's a podcast called I'm Doing Great podcast that the girl who's the host of it,
she was talking about this thing called horseshoe theory. She says, horseshoe theory, the concept
of it is what are the KKK and I'm sorry, what are the the Baptist and the bootlegger have in common?
They both want alcohol to be illegal. The bootlegger wants it to be illegal because he makes more
money. The Baptist wants it to be legal. Got it. Got it. Got it. Right. So the complete opposite ends
of the spectrum as far as ideology and they want the same result. The KKK and woke leftists,
they both want segregation. They're getting it, by the way. I mean, I've never seen the country more
divided and I have so many friends, whatever they could be, they could be. That was hilarious.
Oh yeah, it is. It's crazy. I mean, it's like they got my favorite, my new favorite comedian who is
a David Chappelle, by the way. I think his name is in it. Chappelle. My new guy. I don't care
about anybody. He is my guy. But you know, it's just incredible what they're doing and I have so
many friends and they could be light brown, dark brown. I'm tan. They could be, you know, light
black. I call them chocolate, whatever. They could have this different color of skin. But they're
100% against affirmative action. They say, Pat, I got to be honest with you. I've always been
against it because I've had different clients who have questioned my integrity or my quality as an
attorney because they're thinking that maybe I got to where I am because of affirmative action.
I mean, it's asinine. You have to stop it. It's just crazy. And you know what? I mean,
you know, it's like, they always said, no, you know, no, we're all created equal. No, we're not.
No two men are created equal. Everyone's different. That's the most asinine thing I've ever had,
heard. You know, we're all created equal. Bullshit. It's not true. I'm a dumb guy. Don't get me
wrong. 99% of the people on the planet are smarter than me. I am not created equal.
But the end of the day, we have, we are dealt cards. That's our hand. And guess what? That's
what we got to play with. And that's what I do. So how did this lawsuit come about? Okay, so
that's a great question. So in 2010, Pat Girondi and Sanroco Therapeutics delivered to the world
the first commercial batch. That's your company. Yes. Okay. Sanroco Therapeutics Therapeutics
delivered the world's first batch of gene therapy for sickle cell disease and thalassemia known
to man. Because up until then, it took a million dollars per patient to make. And you could only
make it one batch at a time. For $1.3 million, it took a million dollars per patient to make what?
The vector. The vector. Remember, we were talking about the HHS gene therapy vector. So
we were able for $1.3 million to make enough for 10 people. So we brought it down from a
million to one, you know, to 130,000 a person, which was incredible. Okay. And then a company
called Bluebird Bio wanted to buy us. And they were basically owned by Third Rock Ventures,
which, you know, is one of these funds that billions and billions of dollars.
That's sorry to interrupt your story, but I'm curious. How did you do that? How did you go
about finding a way to make it so much more economical to do that? Okay. So the real hero in
all of this is a French researcher named Michel Settlin and his wife, Isabel Riviere.
They basically, between the two of them, invented the beta-globin gene and then were able to package
it to be able to get it into a human cell. They started with mice. Those are the heroes.
How did you find them? I read about it in 2000 in Nature magazine.
Wow. So I met them in 2000, met their kids in time. They know my kids, all of that. And I began
funding them. And then in 2005, I bought their product. I licensed it to go forward to commercialize
it. Nobody cared about it. I tried to get other drug companies to do it, but nobody wanted it.
Did you try it, test it on your son? No, no, no, no. We, up until now, we've only done it on three
people. Bluebird has done it on up to 46 people or 50 people even. So in 2010, I'm with my president,
Sam Salman. We drive to go see Bluebird Bio's new CEO, Nick Leshly. And we go see Neil Lexter,
and we go see these, you know, multi-gazillionaires that own third rock ventures. And they want to
do a deal with us. So in 2005, nobody believed in gene therapy. I tried to talk to Shire. I talked
to Elan. I talked to Merck. Elan? E-L-A-N. It's an Irish company. He said Elan. Yeah, no, Elan. So
I talked to all these companies about doing gene therapy, and they thought I was nuts. You know,
gene therapy is never going to work, you know. And so in 2010, all of a sudden, third rock ventures
buys Bluebird Bio, which was a French company, by the way. And the difference between my French
researcher and theirs was that my French researcher was first. So we have the wild type beta-globin
gene in our product, and instead they have a mutant gene in their product, okay? Well, they paid 35
million for the bum dope for this shit product. What do you mean mutant gene? So you change the
gene. So I have the beta-globin gene that you have in your body is what we put into our patients
body. Okay. But to get around the patent, basically, the other researcher had to change it. You could
change it just, you know, small, making the plasmid a little smaller, introducing another plasmid,
changing the chronological order or whatever. Okay. So it's still the beta-globin gene,
but it's a mutant gene. Just modified a little bit. Modified. Perfect. So they had bought this
modified gene, and I'm like, what the fuck's wrong with these guys? They paid 35 million for this
fucking, this modified gene. I mean, like, already nuts, you know, but they're all Harvard, Yale,
all this bullshit, you know, banksters. So I go there and, you know, I get there and they blow
smoke up my ass, you know, how do you always do? Oh, Pat, you're the best father in the world. And
well, you did for your kid and all of this, you know, but by the way, we are banksters and we got
more money than God. And so you should do a deal with us. And I said, okay, I'll do a deal with
you, you know, a fester, but you bought bum dope. You bought shit. So what you got to do
with Pat Girondi, because I don't give a shit about the money necessarily, but I do have
shareholders who have invested money. So we got to take care of them. But the most important thing
you got to do is promise that you use my medicine because I'm using the real beta-globin gene,
not a mutant gene. So they listen to me and they say, okay. And then I said, and by the way,
you've spent 35 million for that shit. Mine's got to be worth 350. And I'm not telling you I want
350. But, you know, we got the real thing. I got shareholders. We got to take care of them, you
know, because it's the right thing to do. I'm an American. I'm a capitalist. I got the right thing.
You didn't. We got to do things the right way. We got to be honorable men and women.
They went behind my back and they sabotaged the product. We've got all the emails. They were saying
crazy shit at board members. They were at board meetings. Danny, they were saying we got to shoot
Gerondi down. What do you mean they sabotaged your product? Right. So first they admit that my product
is three to five times better than theirs. Okay, we've got we got it. Read it in the book. Don't
listen to me. Read it in the book. It all came out in discovery. Gerondi's product is three to five
times better than ours. It'll add 200 million dollars to our company if we can sabotage it
and shelve it and get it. They go behind my back.
They go to the people where I license the product from.
And I have a non-disparagement, so I have to be careful, careful about this. Not against Bluebird,
who by the way, it cost a million dollars when I wouldn't sign the non-disparagement against
Bluebird. Anyway, so they go behind my back. You mean they try to pay you a million dollars
to sign non-disparagement and you didn't take it? Yeah, the other side. So there was two people
that had to settle up with me at the end. And when I said I won't talk bad about this not for
profit any longer because they're a great institution. Yeah. And I don't like the executives
and maybe they did a lot of bad things that they should have had, should not have, but I'm not
going to talk about it because they are a good institution. But Bluebird Bio, as soon as I walk
out of the room, I'm going to tell the world what they did. Right. Well, that great institution
basically had to give a million dollars to Bluebird Bio because I wouldn't sign the non-disparagement.
Oh, wow. True story. Wow. So basically, they go behind my shoulder. Okay. And they went right to
the company you were licensing it from. Right. And they basically say, you know, Drondi's nuts.
You know, he makes videos. He's a rock star in Italy. I mean, have you ever listened to his
stuff? I think he's crazy, you know, and he, oh, he's off the reservation. And when analysts,
analysts, stock analysts were calling the CEO and say, Nick, what's going on with that?
Sonroco Therapeutics. Is your product better than hers? Yeah, Sonroco Therapeutics. We got them all
locked up. Don't worry about it. So that's called insider trading. In the meanwhile, Nick Lesley
makes over $100 million selling his stock, which goes up to $230 in 2018, selling it. They raised
$1.1 billion alone at $185 and $165 in 2018, selling it to unsuspecting investors. All the
while they knew they had bummed dope. That's insider trading. Nick Lesley makes over $100
million. I told you, he was the best CEO in 2014 in bioscience, and he was the worst in 2020.
They go behind my back. They make a deal. I don't know what they're doing,
but I make a deal with the company I licensed it from with the not-for-profit. And I say, okay,
guys, you're not happy with me for whatever reason. I get it. Not a problem. I'll give you back the
project, but run like hell with it. And I figured because they had 4% and 6% royalties, I figured
if I give them 50% royalties, basically, they're going to go run like hell with it, which is
basically what I did. I kept 50% of the product, project for my investors, and they got 50%.
But they ran the project from then on. In 2015, I went to them and I said,
Bluebird Buy was treated 30 patients. We've treated three. What the hell's going on?
I got an attorney. I found out that the CEO of
Memorial Sloan Kettering had other issues. And through newspaper articles, New York Times,
by the way, 2012, found out that the same guys that bought my competitor had funded
Memorial Sloan Kettering CEO, his publicly traded company, and he was sued for a billion dollars
in 2012 because of that. Of course, it all ends up settling out of court. Hold on a second.
You hear that? Is that Rafaul?
Is he here? Can you ask him to turn that down real quick?
Just knock on the door right there. Just crack it open real quick. Say,
yo, we're wrapping up a podcast.
Sorry. Sorry, let's come in through the microphone. I can hear it pretty loud in the headphones.
You did? All right, cool. Sorry. So basically, in 2015, I'm looking back and all of that,
and I find out that the CEO of Memorial Sloan Kettering got like 110 million dollars from the
owners of my competitor. So now I'm getting a little bit nervous. From the owners of who?
I told you that there was two French companies, basically, or two French researchers who invented
one, the beta-globin gene, and the other, the mutant beta-globin gene. The mutant beta-globin gene
gets bought by Bluebird Bios. Bluebird Bios was owned by Third Rock Ventures. Third Rock Ventures
had given, had funded the CEO of Memorial Sloan Kettering's company, Agios Farma, for 110 million
dollars between 2007 and 2011. It's all in the book. And again, I'm not disparaging Memorial
Sloan Kettering. Great, I love them. They do a lot of great, great things for people and all of that.
The executives, you know, whatever, they come and they go. Anyway, to make a long story short,
I go to, you know, to my ex-partner and I say, hey man, you got to give my product back because,
you know, you're fumbling the ball here. And they say, no, no, we're not going to give it back to
you. So I said, okay, I'll sue you for breach of contract. So I sue them for breach of contract.
And we begin discovery. By 2017, Christmas time, it was December 28th, I get to read
the second amended complaint. You know, I think that worst thing in life, worse than cancer,
worse than get beat up, worse than discrimination,
is disappointment for me anyway. So you know, it's like, son, the teacher said, you cheated on your
exam. That's horrible. But it's real horrible when you find out that he really did do it.
It's disappointing. So I had suspicion that things weren't on the up and up. But there was no way in
the world I thought anybody could ever put money in front of patients. I mean, it just didn't work.
I'm stupid. I admit that I didn't graduate from my school. I'm stupid. And like I say, I'm one of
those Catholic guys who like believes we're all brothers and likes wants to help everybody. And
but in December, December 28, 2017, Judge O Strager was our judge. He said, I'm going to blow
this case wide open. And our case was in the New York Times front page, New Front page New York
Times. We had 40 articles, Bloomberg, you name it did articles on us, you know. And he said, I'm
going to blow this case wide open. I'm going to let the world see the amended complaint.
And what Girondi and San Rocco therapeutics is accusing
bluebird bio and third rock ventures are doing. I was laying in my bed in Italy. It was like
51 degrees in my house because going through the going through the trial, I didn't have any liquidity.
I was borrowing money for my partner Joey Feldman. He had borrowed the company $3.5 million that he'd
never get back if we lost the case. My attorney Ken Sussman, Jew from New York, I love him like a
brother. He took out a second mortgage on his house because he was on contingency. So there's no way
I was going to ask anybody for money. So my house, I didn't I didn't turn on the heat. And that was
it. It was 51 degrees. It was 51 degrees. And I was in my bed when I got a call from my attorney Ken.
He says, I just sent you the amended complaint. The judge said you can read it all.
Up until then, it was protected under secrecy. I couldn't read it. It was attorney's eyes only
secrecy. I don't know what happened. But like I said, I wasn't crying like I was disappointed.
I suspected that maybe they could have done what they did. But nothing hit me
like when I read that they did do it. They really put money in front of patients lives.
And I laid in bed on my phone and I just read it. And I read all the charges.
And the charges were the result of discovery that I couldn't see. But my current my attorneys
could. And all of a sudden, I'm reading the dates, the words, the documents
that they used to fuck my son. He'd been cured three or four years ago and to fuck every one
of his brothers and sisters who have sickle cell disease and thalassemia. They fucked every one
of them. And I felt like the biggest piece of shit because I let him fuck him because I wasn't
smart enough. When we started dancing in 2010, when they were blown smoke up my ass about how
I was the greatest father in the world, I didn't realize that those fucking fruit faggots from
Harvard University and Yale were fucking me up my ass. And at the same time, fucking my patients.
And in 2000, December 28, 2017, I was able to read it all. And I there was nowhere in my house
for me to hide. I felt like the biggest idiot just I let because by then every sickle cell
disease patient is my son or my daughter or my brother or my sister, every thalassemic patient.
And I had let them do that. And after that, the judge said to them, you know,
this isn't a frivolous case. By then, they had spent 30, 40, 50 million dollars fighting us.
Up until then, it was me and my Jew attorney from New York, Ken Sussman, me and him,
us two, and Joey Feldman, my partner, banking us, paying for experts, paying for the, you know,
court, the discovery. I mean, it's just a nightmare. And that's why in the United States,
unfortunately, most people can't afford justice. And the judge finally, like in 2018,
he told him, he says, you know, your treatment is a frivolous case. It is not a frivolous case.
But COVID came. So what happened? Our court case, delayed, delayed, delayed. And we didn't get in
front of the judge until October 29th of 2020. And the way he did it, he gave us four days.
And because of COVID, you had to do it by Zoom. So we sent in all our affidavits. They sent in all
their affidavits. The judge read all the affidavits. And then for the first two days, they got to kind
of find holes in our armor and make us look like fools or make it look like we were lying.
And I was the first guy in the stand. And we were in Boston because in 2021, we hired Greenberg
Trial Rig, three guys from Massachusetts. And they had a bigger office than Ken's office in New York.
So we went to Massachusetts for the case. And good guys, by the way. So I was the first guy up,
you know, and I was on stand for an hour and a half. It was easy for me, Danny. All I had to do
was tell the truth. I mean, I didn't have to remember a goddamn thing. I just told the truth.
And I got done. And then our president was on Sam Salman. He'd never took a paycheck. I never
took a paycheck. Sam Salman didn't even have a sick kid. I hired him in 2009. From 2009 to 2020,
never took a paycheck. I never took him. I took my first paycheck. When we settled the agreement,
when we settled the case in 2021, I took my first paycheck, my first paycheck, you know.
And I'm taking a salary of $150,000. And when I saw that there was $19,000 on my credit card to shoot
him a charge, I wrote a check back to the company. That's the kind of capitalist that we are or we
were in the United States of America. The first guy to sacrifice is the boss. He's not the CEO
making 34 million like Fould when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt with all those poor people's pensions
and he got a golden parachute. Capitalism, that's not capitalism. That's criminalism.
So anyway, I was the first up. Sammy was the second up.
Regular point was the third guy up. He was the CEO of Sigma Tau. Great guy.
And boy, they couldn't even ding us. Couldn't ding us. There was thousands of people watching the
webcast. It kept getting interrupted. And the guy in the webcast saying, Your Honor, we can't,
you know, we can't technically support the thing anymore. I mean, so many people are watching.
You know, it was incredible. And then we went the next day with our experts,
damage experts, et cetera, et cetera. It was Friday. The judge, okay, Monday and Tuesday,
you guys are up at bat. Now my attorneys got to find the chinks in their armor.
And the judge ended the day and he said,
I don't know where you're going with this bluebird third rock ventures. This could be very painful
for you. And then he looked at me and it was weird because he didn't really know he was looking at me
because it was a podcast. But he was looking at me and he was looking into my heart.
And he said, In the state of New York, damages are a slippery slope.
And that was a message to me.
So I went to my Aunt Gloria, 91 years old. She died right after the trial.
I went to see her over the weekend and went to church and went to mass and talked to my mother
and talked to my friends and Joey. Sunday night, I get a call from Mark Berthume.
Pat, got to get on the phone. Why Mark? It's fucking 10 o'clock. They want to settle.
Don't want to settle. They can talk to me tomorrow morning. I'm going to bed.
Yeah, but come on. I mean, this is what we're waiting for.
Mark, I'll talk to you in the morning.
I went there. They shuffled papers in front of me.
I said, Drandy, because of course I'm the bad guy the whole time. I'm an idiot.
I'm the high school dropout who was playing over his head and, you know, street guy,
father, good intention father, all that bullshit. Rockstar in Italy and all this. Anyway.
Drandy, what will it take to end this?
What do you mean? Well, what do you need to make this stop?
I want my product back and I want enough money to pay my attorneys, to pay my debt,
and to have enough money to move forward and treat patients. That's what I want.
How much will that be? I'm bound by secrecy, so I can't give you the number.
It was in the millions, obviously. More than that, I can't say. My attorneys, if they're watching or
maybe they're not, maybe they are. They'll be cringing right now. They're probably getting
ready to ball me out after the podcast, but I don't really care. I'm going to dice them anyway.
I mean, how long do we live? I mean, I'm just doing what I'm supposed to do.
So I said, it's X amount of dollars and give me my product back. And they said, done.
If I had to ask for double, what I asked for, they did say done, but I didn't need double.
I said, just give me enough to get back on the road. And so that's what we're doing now.
So at the University of Kentucky, University of Southern Illinois,
Chris Bell is Deish Govinder, Professor Angela Wilbur, Professor Frank Park.
We're putting an insulator on our product because Michelle Settlin, its loan catering,
discovered that these lentiviral vectors, these gene therapy need an insulator
because there's been cases of leukemia and stuff for patients treated without an insulator.
What's an insulator? An insulator is, so when the gene goes into your chromosome,
lines, it could fall next to a oncogene, like a cancer gene and trigger it.
Oh, shit. So we want to put an insulator in between our gene that we're inserting,
our vector that we're inserting in the other gene, so it won't trigger them.
Yeah, that's a good idea. So we're doing that now. We're doing that now.
Okay. But Bloober Bio might be approved by then, who we don't know. They're going to be
in June 8th and June 9th, there's going to be a public hearing that the FDA is calling for Bloober
Bio. We already sent in a, it's called a citizen's petition, and we said to the FDA, FDA, we don't
think they should be approved because one, they have a mutant gene, two, they've had problems
with patients, three, they don't have an insulator, four, they butted in line and acted with treachery
to get where they are. And the fifth thing is something called orphan drug exclusivity because
if they get orphan drug exclusivity, they won't have competition for seven years in the United
States. So we said FDA, we don't think you should allow them to be approved, but they might get
approved. And that's not the fault of the FDA because it's not the FDA's, you know, thing to
be looking at court cases, by the way. So, and they might get approved, and that's it. But that's
how the court case ended, basically. And we find out that Bloober Bio is infringing on our products,
so now we're ensuing them for infringement. So maybe economically, it might be the best thing
in the world that they get approved, because then why? They're going to have to pay me because
they're infringing on my product. But we think that we need an insulator on our product,
and they need one as well, we believe. And I was just at the American Society of
Gene and Cell Therapy in Washington, D.C. for a week, talking to all of the people at FDA,
all of the researchers, all of the whatever, I gave out about 30 of my books, you know,
was kind of neat and wonderful. But there's a lot of great people at the NIH, which is the
National Institute of Health, National Cancer Institute, FDA, SEC, FBI, politicians, you name it,
we've got some of the best in the world, doctors, CEOs even. We've got some great,
wonderful CEOs, Emil Kakis, John Valentine, Michael Chamber, CEO of L. Devron. And I'm
talking about companies that work hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars. And they're
great guys, by the way. Is this gene therapy going to be able to
make it possible to where people with these blood diseases won't have to get transfusions?
Yes. They'll be cured. They'll be asymptomatic. So you'll get the gene cell therapy essentially
once and it's done? That's it. Done. Really? Done, man. Done. When do you hope for this to happen?
We're putting an insulator on now and we're making sure, I mean, I'll be getting called by
the end of the week, probably, that the insulator is not hurting the efficacy of the drug.
Okay. So, and show my book again. Hold up. Hold it up for us. Tell people listening and watching.
Light is their own door. And I don't give a shit about...
Hold up. Up higher by your face.
I don't give a shit about the money. I mean, the money's going to research anyway.
But you know what? If you don't read it, you're not going to understand that this is true to what
I'm saying. And it'll be great for you guys if you want to go to the stock market because it tells
how I got in the stock market. It'll be great for you people if you got a sick father, a sick son,
a sick daughter, a sick cousin because it tells all about that. And it'll be great for you people
if you're like out of the box, not cookie cutter kind of people and you're wondering, jeez, how could
that guy get an Oprah Winfrey show? Twice. How is that guy one of America's most heldable bachelors?
How do you end up doing it? Look, read about it. It's a great story. It's a feel-good story.
And it's none of this bullshit woes me. My daddy beat me up and oh, my uncle, he molested me. Oh,
my God, I could never, ever see another hot dog in my life because every time I saw a hot dog,
I thought of my uncle. I mean, come out with all that bullshit, will you? I mean, come on.
You, we gotta go back real quick before we end this thing. You're in Playgirl. You didn't have
a spread in Playgirl magazine, did you? Playgirl magazine. I had all my clothes on. Okay, good.
You can go and find it. Thank God. Okay. And I was in there with, if you were in there, Sylvester
Stallone, I wanted, I wanted to have the signed copy to put on the bookshelf. I got it. But you
know what? I, you know what? I'll, I, I'll send you a copy, but I was in there with Sylvester
Stallone and Magic Johnson. By the way, Larry Johnson, Magic's brother, who I've collaborated
with on sickle cell disease, by the way, good people. So I mean, it was kind of helpful at
least when I called, I said, Hey, we're in the same magazine together. You know what I'm saying?
That's awesome. No, it is awesome. And again, I, you know, again, I am, I am an idiot. Okay.
And I'm a high school dropout. And, and, and, and I'm not the sharpest guy in the drawer.
But I try to be a good guy and a good American and a good capitalist, by the way. And, and as a
good capitalist and a good American with a socialist heart, with a socialist heart, I believe that
the first guy to sacrifice should be the boss. You know, that's very well. That's, that's the
truth. I agree with that. Yeah, you know, I mean, you know, Bezos, you gotta lead by example. Yeah,
forget about, okay, how much do you worth the trillion? Come on with all that bullshit. Give
bonuses to all those freaking truck drivers. Take, take 90% of all your money and give it away to
your employees. Let them get their health care. Let them get everything. I mean, you know, that's
what capitalism in America is about. It's not about dying with, you know, 20 zeros after your name.
What goes that gonna do you? I agree. Pat, thank you for doing this. I very much appreciate it.
Tell people where they can buy the book. So, Flight of the Rondoni. Oh, by the way, stop. I gotta
tell one more thing. Yeah. Why is it called Flight of the Rondoni? What is that? That's a bird. What
is that bird called? Well, in English, you'd probably call it a swift. In Italian, you call it
a rondone. Now, the rondone flies from Africa at about 140, up to 140 miles an hour. It gets
into our town and it lays eggs in our cathedral ceilings or roofs, roof. And it flies around
around. But the thing about the rondone is kind of like me. It's short. Don't have, and doesn't
have a big nose like me, but it's short. But it's got like real long wings. So it can't land on the
ground. Because if it land on the ground, it can't take off again, because the wings hit the ground
when it tries to take off. Okay. So it's always got to land two to three stories high. Okay. And
when they go in our piazza from like March to August, September, and they're flying around,
flying around, flying around, flying, every now and then they collide because they go so fast,
okay. When they collide, guess what happens? They fall to the ground. Well, when they get to the
ground, we know what to do. We take them in our hands as gently as we can. We cup them and we
throw them as high as we can into the air so that they can begin flapping their wings and take off.
Well, when I was a kid, big mama, that wonderful dark-skinned woman from Northwestern hospital,
Clarence Bryant, that wonderful judge who told me to go to the military instead of jail,
that wonderful dark-skinned man, Joey Gornick, that Croatian boss that I had when I loaded the
trucks. My mother, my attorney, that you can suspend. Well, I love with all my heart.
I kind of collided a lot. I wasn't too bright. I was at Rondoni and they picked me up and threw me
in the air so I could fly again. It's beautiful. And I'm going to die soon. You know, you all are.
You're not going to die soon. Well, I mean, you look like a young healthy man. Yeah, but what's
soon? I mean, I don't know, 50 years. It's pretty soon. I mean, we've been on the planet five million
years. So all I want to do is I'll raise some more money for my company. We're going to go
after other therapies. We're working on a therapy CD-47 now, which is a great invention. I want
to try to do a little good. And we're not going to make the company a big company so we could,
you know, give everybody 100 million or whatever. No, no, no. We're going to try to do good research.
And in the United States, we can do good research and it doesn't have to cost a trillion dollars
because we're not going to let the executive steal all the money.
It's a good plan. I hope I wish you all the success under the sun. And
it's exciting to see what you're doing, especially for people for the patients that are suffering
from sickle cell and those other blood diseases. It's exciting shit, man. Yes. And remember, again,
I don't care. I offended you at it. I mean, it's almost like tough shit. You know, I didn't mean
do, but I did. But you know what? There's only one race, the human race. And the United States,
the first thing I do as a president, stop taking the goddamn census. Who cares how many
of dark skinned is light skinned. This is all idiocracy. We're all Americans. We just love
each other. We got a great country. We've got to get healthcare better. We got to get our
universities better. And we got to help each other. That's it. Stop at all this division
politics and all this bullshit. Yeah. Politics is for the birds, not the Rondoni birds, but the
not the Rondoni shit birds shit birds. Awesome, man. Thank you again, Pat. Love you guys. Appreciate
it. Thank you very much. And bye everyone. Rondoni. Later. Rondoni. I'll link it below. Thank you.
