All right, so we're rolling. What's up, Jack? What up guys? Thank you for having me. How you doing, bro?
Good. How about a nice introduction for Jack? Give him an intro, Forrest. This is Jack Tenney from the Jukes Squad.
World-renowned brother of Tee-Foo, I guess. Maybe more famous, Jack.
He's no longer Jack.
Son of my concho.
You know I introduced myself the other day as Tee-Foo's little brother.
Yeah, my concho is his dad too.
We have Mike Hancho's son and Tee-Foo's brother.
Arch nephesis of Ben Malo.
That's me, guys. I'm here.
So it's pretty cool that we get to have you on the podcast because, you know, not many people get to have your time other than your own channel.
It's pretty cool.
Thank you, man. You're pretty special.
You're a local legend on the podcast.
Yes. He had to drive all the way from Clearwater to Seminole. We really appreciate it.
Five-minute drive?
I don't even have a ride home.
What do you even do with all your time lately?
Trying to come up with as much content as I can, but it's kind of depressing to make content when your backyard is like a toxic wasteland.
Yeah, I've been seeing all those videos that you've been making and the beach smells like a sewer right now.
It's bad. I witnessed the worst smell I've ever smelled in my entire life the other day.
Actually, in this video, a couple minutes in, but yeah, it's disgusting.
But I drove down Reddington today. It was terrible.
Really?
But then when I got to see the beach, it wasn't so bad.
It's bad. You can feel it in your nose, your eyes, your throat, your lungs. It's horrible.
And you've lived on the beach your entire life.
Forever.
I've lived on a New York's beach. It's been your backyard since you were born.
Yep.
Have you ever seen it this bad?
Not even close.
Not even close.
You want me to be Ben for a minute?
Yeah, be Ben. Go ahead.
This is a natural occurring cycle. It has nothing to do with Rick's god of the government.
So why is it so bad this year, you think?
Well, it's just because, I mean, as time goes on, the runoff from the cattle ranchers and all the pesticides and fertilizers that you use on the crops that seeps its way into Lake Okeechobee that then gets drained into the rivers that leads to the ocean.
Red tide is technically just a type of algae. And when it gets mixed with another toxic type of algae that comes out of Lake Okeechobee, it just gets disgusting.
And another thing that people don't realize is red tide has not naturally occurred on its own since 1920.
And it used to only happen when there was giant fish spawns, when there would be tons and tons of fish spawning.
And since we're overfishing now, we actually haven't had enough fish.
Oh, it's a truck.
There hasn't been a fish spawn.
It's been over 100 years since there was enough fish to naturally cause red tide.
Now it's just toxic algae coming from all these farms.
So how come it's so much worse this year than other years?
It's just a combination. It's just like the perfect storm pretty much.
Are they polluting more nowadays?
Yeah, it's just building up.
Everybody's saying big sugar. It's a combination of a lot of different corporations.
But there's record crops every single year. There's a whole lot of rain this year too.
And that led to all the crops getting too flooded.
All these crops that they're growing are farmed on swamp lands that are constantly drained.
They need to be drained or else it'll just flood all their crops.
So where they drain the water is straight into Lake Okeechobee.
It creates these toxic algae blooms, makes its way to the ocean.
And then we have a supercharged red tide toxic algae bloom.
Look at that water. That is not the color that the ocean is supposed to be.
And that's John's Pass. That is the inside of John's Pass.
Nice drone shot though.
Shout out to all those dead fish there.
Shout out to the other Danny. Danny Scantle.
So are they allowed to dump all this waste in there?
Yeah, they are.
So it's funny because obviously we both spend a lot of time in the ocean surfing and whatnot.
And we're both aware where red tide has been around for hundreds of years.
And I've never really known what the cause was.
I mean, I've heard stuff here and there, but I've never heard anything.
I've never seen as much conversation about it until this year.
Like I've never heard people talking about it.
I never really knew why it actually happened.
It's because it's worse this year.
You know, red tide technically is just a type of algae.
So saying this red tide, technically it is correct to say that it's red tide,
but everybody thinks of red tide as this naturally occurring phenomenon.
And this is not natural. This is not something that just happens by nature.
This is a direct result of all the toxic runoff leading to the ocean.
And another thing is it's hitting Panama City Beach in North Florida.
That is a wide spread.
Yeah, I was actually just there last week and it was really, really bad there.
There was dead fish on the beach.
Do you think that they're going to have to restock the Gulf?
What do you mean?
Like with fish.
How would they do that?
I don't know, like buy fish eggs, I guess, from somewhere else.
Like look, all these fish are dying.
Like what do you have to do to get more of them?
Stop sending all this toxic water into the Gulf.
So how long do you think this lasts like this?
I have no idea because this is a record setting red tide that's been going on.
This red tide has been going on for nine months, which is a record.
And we've also broken every single yearly record of dead manatees, sea turtles,
and dolphins in one month.
So more dead wildlife in one month than any previous year.
Wow.
So this is worse here than it ever before.
By far.
So what have you been doing personally to make a difference?
Or like on your channel, you've been making a lot of videos about it.
Like what's your goal?
What have you been trying to do?
Unfortunately, I don't know what to do.
Like I have no idea how to solve this problem.
I know that there are a few solutions.
One of them is like a $1.5 billion project to buy something like 150,000 acres
and use that land specifically to clean and filter the water.
But really, I'm just trying to make as many people aware of this issue as possible
so that maybe something can be done.
Because you know, when people get outraged, that's obviously, you know,
the Senate and the state and the government takes notice.
You're just trying to shine light.
Exactly.
That's got the platform.
That's what he's been saying in his other video too.
He's got the platform to make these issues heard by big numbers of people.
You know, just like the petition, if a petition gets 100,000 signatures,
the White House has to release a statement on it.
Pretty much every time.
We've got less than 30,000 more to go.
I mean, that's good for the amount of time.
Yeah, what's fucked up is I did a poll on my Instagram.
I've gotten so many people telling me that they're having trouble
in the petition, that they're getting an error, that their signature is not counting,
or that it just straight up will not let them submit their information.
That was the worst thing I've ever smelled in my entire life by far.
Can you describe it?
No, I actually can't.
I did not think anything.
It smelled so bad that I literally could not breathe.
It was so strong that I couldn't take a breath
because it just instantly made me gag out my air to the point that I was gasping
and had to run away from the dumpsters far enough away to where I could take a breath of air.
I mean, look at that.
Is this also Treasure Island?
Treasure Island.
The entire bay, just as far as you can see.
I saw a Treasure Island picture and an inlet just straight fish.
Stacked, yeah.
This is when the tide was going out, so they're separating,
but look at that pot of dead fish.
I mean, they have to be trying to do something to fix it.
There's no way that no government officials or some bigwigs aren't actively trying to do something.
I mean, this is crazy.
I mean, when you're funded by corporations that solely only care about money,
I mean, this has been going on for 80 years, 100 years or something like that.
Yeah.
And there's no sign of it slowing down.
They're still allowing these farmlands to pump the phosphate fertilizer all over the plants.
And then when it rains, the water drains into the canals.
The canals drain into Lake Okeechobee.
Lake Okeechobee drains to the river that leads to the ocean.
Do you think it has anything to do with fertilizer?
Oh, yeah.
A huge part of it's fertilizer.
But individual, let's say Treasure Island, you have a yard, you fertilize it,
it rains, the runoff goes in the ocean.
I think that that would be a very, very small percentage of the overall...
But it's the same thing.
Just on a smaller scale.
Yeah, I mean...
But I think that's what a lot of the people want.
But I don't think that's affecting the normal people.
That it's not big business.
It's the individual's fertilizer.
Yeah, the people who think that are dumb and are misinformed.
Well, that's what I'm saying.
It's definitely the big people.
That's fake news.
Yeah.
You heard it here.
Yeah, that's another thing is the news will not report on...
Well, they'll say, you know, is man making this red tide worse with fertilizer and this and that,
but they will never name a specific company or a specific reason why...
So let's name them.
What company is it?
We can name them.
Cattle Ranchers, north of Lake Okeechobee.
Yeah.
It's the big sugar south of Lake Okeechobee,
which they've been draining their runoff into the lake for years and years and years.
Like all the manure that's in all the cattle ranches that gets drained into the lake too,
you know, that contributes to it as well.
And another thing I hear is there's weeds that are going in Lake Okeechobee.
And I guess they're spraying all sorts of like crazy pesticides and poison on the weeds to kill the weeds,
which contributes to the algae bloom too.
I have absolutely no idea.
Like apparently if you look back at pictures or videos of Lake Okeechobee 20 years ago versus today,
it's like a completely different place.
There's all these weeds and all this grass all over Lake Okeechobee,
and they're slowly like trying to kill the weeds because we don't want weeds and it doesn't make any sense.
You can probably pull up a video of them spraying all the pesticides and all the poison on the weeds.
I wonder what companies...
I know they do that right out there in Lake Seminole too, even.
You know what, Jack?
You know what you might have to do, Jack?
Like you had that other video where like, you remember when you made the beach,
you made your private beach and you got such an outcry from the public in the news that it made major networks.
You might have to come up with some crazy idea to do with the red tide to get them to cover it.
Have you gone down there to Lake Okeechobee to like where those farms are and where they spray all that shit and try to talk to anybody?
I have not, no.
We should.
I would like to.
You should go in a dead fish outfit.
I wanted to send boxes of dead fish and bottles of Lake Okeechobee watered all the senate offices
into like Rick Scott's office and the governor's office.
Probably a bad idea.
I would get in a lot of trouble.
That's why I haven't done it.
But I mean, like if they can kill like the entire state, why can't I do that?
Like let's go dump it a hundred gallons of Lake Okeechobee water into Rick Scott's swimming pool.
You know what would be interesting though if you took a water sample this week and then take one like, you know,
when it clears up and just to show how bad it was and send it to some type of laboratory to have them show you what the deal is.
I mean, this is our water.
We swim in it.
They have a scale for red tide.
You know, I'm not the most educated person on the topic.
I'm just trying to make people aware of this because there's like my backyard is like a toxic waste.
Manatees dying all over the place.
But they measure red tide by like how many particles of the algae are in a per liter of water.
And I think the scale maxes out at one million because it's never supposed to go higher than a million.
That's just like completely unheard of.
But this year they were measuring like 10 million particles of the algae bloom per liter of water,
which is 10 times higher than the scale caps out at.
God damn.
Wow.
Do you think that this could possibly be the work of my concho?
Is he to blame?
I wish because if he was to blame, then I could fix it.
So what exactly is Rick Scott have to do?
What does Rick Scott have to do with this?
I forgot what year it was.
I think I have a picture of it.
I guess the year is kind of irrelevant, but he cut $700 million budget from the Water Preservation Act.
He just took $700 million away from trying to keep the water clean, you know?
Can you look that up?
Yeah.
I might have a picture on my phone.
I saw some videos of the waterways with the different colored water, you know, feeding into it.
And I saw some comments on the video and they said that that's naturally occurring,
like where lakes and rivers go into like, you know, the ocean and stuff like that.
They say it always looks like that.
Holy fuck.
You're right.
Here we go.
In 2012, Richard Scott cut $700 million from Florida Water Management District.
Now the Gulf Coast is suffering what may be the worst red tide bloom in history, empty beaches and restaurant.
And Trump loves this guy.
Do you?
And I have another tweet from Trump.
Rick Scott of Florida is doing a fantastic job as governor.
Jobs are pouring into the state and its economic health is better than ever before.
He is strong on crime, borders and loves our military and vets.
Vote for Rick Scott on Tuesday.
This is our president.
As our state is literally uninhabitable.
Like, you know, I lived at the beach my entire life.
I can, you know, gauge a popular beach day.
Like during the week, you know, there's still going to be dozens of people on the beach.
Last Sunday, there was two people on the beach as far as I could see.
Yeah, Clearwater Beach is a ghost land right now.
They're parking there.
He's on Indian Rocks Beach.
Yeah, but Clearwater Beach.
I saw pictures from Clearwater Beach.
All the businesses like the restaurants are empty.
And the thing is, like, I have a lot of friends who own local businesses
and I have a lot of friends who run fishing charters and, like,
I don't want to hurt their businesses at all,
but pretending like this isn't happening just so that tourists keep coming this year.
Like, if this continues for 10 years, like, I will not be able to live where I live.
I might be able to, but I won't want to, you know?
I think this was a wake-up call, though.
It's like almost like they push, see how far can we go.
How much, you know, toxic waste.
Can we pump into the...
I mean, is anybody doing anything?
I have no idea.
I don't know.
I've not heard...
But when you have a problem with this widespread and this much...
Well, he's got 30,000.
30,000, how many?
How many petitions have you got signed?
Right, but it's 70,000 signatures.
Over 70,000 signatures.
Is anybody in position talking about it?
No.
Nobody.
You think with this much outrage, if they had any type of solution
or were making any sort of progress to stop this from happening,
they would release a statement, but I've seen nothing.
But also, I think part of the problem is like this problem is so large
and so widespread that there isn't an easily doable solution
that's like, oh, we can do it tomorrow.
This is a major...
Just cut off sugar.
What the fuck are you going to do?
Cut off cattle ranchers.
Nobody said anything about it.
Do not let them use fertilizer, and that's a huge step in the right direction.
Just completely ban fertilizer surrounding Lake Okeechobee.
Can I play devil's advocate for a second?
Yeah, of course.
Please don't reflect my actual use.
I'm playing devil's advocate.
Of course, no.
All right.
Look, nine months.
There you go.
Longest red tide in history.
I mean, when you affect business like that,
and I'm taking Ben's side of this, you know, business is business,
so we're out here to make money.
We're not necessarily out here to save the environment.
I'm taking devil's advocate.
That's a problem, too.
The big business, you can't just say you can't have fertilizer anymore.
That's going to affect millions of dollars of Florida tax...
Right, but there's got to be a better way to do it.
Yes.
But the thing is, I totally get that,
but what happens when Florida's uninhabitable?
Well, that's the whole point of government regulation.
That's why when people, typically Republicans,
want less government regulation and Democrats want more,
well, when you deregulate things, stuff like this happens.
Right.
So, you know, there's got to be a centered area somewhere
where everybody can agree,
and we're kind of at a good spot right now because
we're going to have a change of leadership here very shortly.
And you're right.
You know, that would take millions and millions of dollars away
from Florida's taxes, blah, blah, blah.
But Florida is completely reliant on tourism
way more so than the sugar crops,
way more so than the cattle ranches.
So, it's like, you know, they're pretty much shooting themselves
in the foot at this point.
But also laws move, usually legal system moves fairly slowly.
So, if they want to, you know, bring about legislation to ban
or limit fertilizers, it's going to take a long time.
They can't do it overnight.
It takes forever, right?
Everything takes forever.
Well, the biggest fuck up, I mean, Florida...
You've got to start somewhere though.
Water in Florida naturally flows south, right?
It naturally flows south because that's just like the incline
of the state of Florida.
The farther north you go, the higher you are above sea level.
And for thousands of years, the river of grass,
which if you want to pull up a picture that you can,
look up Florida's historic water flow.
And you can see that...
Have you ever seen a map of Florida from what they thought
it looked like before they were actually able to fly over it
or measure it properly, like, to the tee?
Yeah, it looked like super fat, right?
It looked super fat and it's like chunked up into islands.
It looks like bad.
They painted it as if it was not a solid land mass whatsoever.
Like, there's rivers going through the whole thing.
I can pull up a picture for you.
By the way, we probably should have...
We're going to have the Republican view at 7.30, right, Daniel?
Yeah, we'll have the Democrat side.
The Republicans are on their way.
But here's the thing, Ben doesn't know anything about this.
He don't really like that type of shit either, though.
He'll probably roast those companies as well.
Well, not necessarily.
Ben's friends are, you know, typically Republicans
because they're business people.
But he don't want to see those dead fish floating in his backyard.
People thought Florida looked like...
That's crazy.
So, obviously, a lot of Florida...
When was this?
It probably has a date on there.
I was at Ben's...
In the 1800s?
I was at Ben's beach house a few days ago.
And I called him on the phone because it smelled horrible.
And I called Ben and I said...
See, look, there you go.
Natural flow of water.
That's how it's been forever.
But we completely cut that off.
This is the past.
It says they haven't...
Yeah, that's the past.
That's the past.
That's how the water flow is forever.
If that was the original...
If that was the present and the future on here.
If that was the original flow, how come the south part of Florida,
like Miami area, didn't get terrible red tide?
Oh, because they didn't have the...
They had the Gulf Stream.
I see.
They were over on the other side.
Yeah, I was thinking if...
Right?
Also, the river of grass, if there was any toxins in the water...
Oh, it filtered it out.
...of Lake Okeechobee, it filtered it out.
I see.
All the weeds and all the grass in south Florida would filter the water
and clean it before it ever got to the ocean.
Now, we completely cut that out of the equation.
And we just send it straight east and west, straight to the ocean.
Well, you know what would be cool too,
like if you guys want to leave in the comments,
if you have a creative solution to this problem
that maybe somebody, you know, businesses or government might want to look into,
put it in the comments below.
Maybe we'll find something that they didn't think about already.
But, like, how the fuck are you going to start?
I mean, the only way to get...
Like, you can't just fucking say, big sugar, shut the fuck down.
Exactly.
That's what we're saying.
No, definitely not.
You have to just start raising hell now.
You've got to bring the awareness to your...
What I'm trying to do,
four million views in the last two months.
So where can they sign the petition and stuff?
It's in the description of pretty much every one of my YouTube videos.
It's in the description of my Instagram.
We can put it in the description of this video.
The description of this video.
Top line.
But the thing is, the petition cuts off the 22nd,
so we only have two days left.
All right, it's a sign now.
Yeah, it's a 30-day thing.
Jacks, how does President Trump get a hold of this?
You've got to edit and put this video out tonight.
I've tweeted him.
I've tried to message him.
Who?
I said if President Trump would like to talk to Jack.
It shouldn't be hard.
It should not be hard.
He's so active on Twitter.
Just tweet me, dude.
There you go.
Message me.
Dammit.
He probably subscribes to Tfue, I would imagine.
Oh, absolutely.
Of course.
If you're not subscribed to Tfue, what are you doing?
Wow.
That's insane.
Yeah.
Yeah, but unfortunately, and I say unfortunately,
because this would be very unfortunate,
but it would also, in a way, be a solution.
If we had a hurricane big enough to flood Lake Okeechobee so much
that it broke the Hoover Dive,
which is the dam that they built,
to stop water from flooding South Florida.
That would almost solve our problem
because the water wouldn't be able to go straight east or west.
The problem is there are towns that would be completely underwater.
Let's destroy the towns with that.
But that's the thing is they should have never built towns there
in the first place.
It is a swamp lake.
Well, that's the thing about it.
It constantly needs to be drained.
And the Lake Okeechobee Hurricane,
it was the second most deadly national disaster in US history.
Over 2,000 people died, almost 2,500.
What hurricane was it?
They call it the Lake Okeechobee Hurricane.
It was like in 1920, I believe.
Okay.
And they built the dams.
Look at that dead whale shark.
That's crazy.
It's crazy to see some of the bigger animals dying too.
Yeah, just to wash up on shore like that.
Two whales washed up a mile north of my house.
Yeah, that's crazy.
And two dead sharks a mile south of my house.
That's pretty crazy.
So if a person goes in that water, will they die too?
People have died.
That's crazy.
Several people have died.
I saw people swimming in the ocean.
That's a bad idea.
But a guy down south, this is a story I heard confirmed to be true
by a friend of mine that would never lie about something like this.
There was a guy cleaning for a week straight, cleaning all the dead fish,
trying to bring his home back to what we wanted to be,
which is a beautiful paradise with like flourishing ecosystems.
And he got sick, went to the hospital,
died within 24 hours of respiratory failure.
Did you hear about that?
Just recently?
This was about a month ago.
Damn.
I heard yesterday some guy was cleaning up the beach.
He stepped on a...
Oyster?
No, it was a catfish bar or something.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, he's in bad shape and long.
So you shouldn't go out and try to clean this shit up then?
Well, the thing is we have to.
I would say if you're going to clean it up, just wear a respirator.
Yeah.
And shoes.
Yeah.
Of course.
I have friends who are cleaning it up right now too,
and they're braver than I.
I've had pneumonia in the past,
so my respiratory system is already weaker than the average person.
So unfortunately, I can't go and do that
because I would almost guarantee to end up in the hospital.
But I mean, fish have to be cleaned up.
Well, too.
I think we need to go straight to the fucking source, Jack.
I think me and you need to fly down to the Lake Okeechobee
and fuck up some farmlands, fuck them up.
Just go and start burning crops.
But what I was thinking about with the Clearwater Beach,
like they probably all,
I mean, they don't have anything to do with Lake Okeechobee.
I mean, they could complain or write letters or influence legislation,
but they don't have anything directly.
So all they can do is damage control at this point,
which I guess they are doing by spending money to clean up.
Yeah, they're worried about clear water, though, and nowhere else.
Fucked, though.
This is the beginning of the end.
This is how the planet dies.
Slowly, one ecosystem dies.
Then the whole state of Florida,
literally statewide more coastline than not,
has dead fish washing up right now.
It's like in 10 years, we're fucked.
If this keeps going on for 10 more years,
you're not going to be able to live here anymore.
No.
That's why Elon wants to go to Mars.
Well, after something this catastrophic...
Honestly, I have a solution to solve all global problems.
Just...
Elon Musk can be world leader.
If something goes wrong, we ask him what to do.
He will probably give us a way better solution than 99% of people.
Fuck it, I'd vote for him.
I think a lot of people would vote.
I think he would win if he ran for president.
Did you see the CEO of Starbucks just thinking about running for president?
Who is that?
I thought the CEO just got fired or something.
No, he stepped down because they were thinking he's going to run for president.
Starbucks?
Yeah, Starbucks.
I'm not voting for that guy.
What's his name? Howard Schultz?
Yeah, I think that's his name.
Starbucks too expensive.
This is Dunkin' Donuts out of the game of the month.
Starbucks is too expensive.
But I only fuck with Dunkin' Donuts.
Ice coffee.
Look, there you go.
They just showed the measurement.
A million units per hour.
With that extra sugar at the bottom.
Shout out, my boy Schultz.
Anyway.
Also, if Elon Musk wants to come on the podcast...
I'd love to talk to that guy, man.
We got him lined up for next week.
We got an EV charger here, Elon.
You can bring your Tesla.
We'll charge you one.
It's free, Elon, too.
Oh, God.
He's talking in hell, though.
Anything else you want to say, Jack, about the topic or about personal life?
We don't do something soon.
I mean, this is like, like I said, it's going to be the beginning of the end of planet Earth.
One ecosystem dies.
If the ocean dies, we die.
The ocean covers most of the planet.
And if we keep this up, it's not going to be good.
So sign the petition.
What else can we do?
Yeah, sign the petition.
Everybody better sign the petition.
I'm just trying to make people aware because I don't know what we can do.
Share the video.
That's part of the problem, though.
Think about the power of somebody like you say big sugar.
Duke News.
Think about how much money they have and influence.
When you have money, you have influence.
Oh, yeah.
Boycott, big sugar.
Do not buy any sugar from Florida at all.
But how are you supposed to do that?
You don't know when you buy...
I know.
You buy raw sugar.
You got to just do your research.
You buy raw sugar.
But let's say I buy a Coke.
I don't know where the sugar comes from.
Don't buy Coke.
Coke's horrible for you.
That's bad.
You got to buy sugar eventually.
Everything has sugar in it.
If it can clean...
You don't have to.
If it can clean the rust off of a bumper, you probably shouldn't drink it.
Yeah, but people are ultimately...
I mean, people are going to drink Coke.
People are stupid.
A lot of people are just really dumb.
But the general consumer...
That's how stuff like this happens.
The general consumer doesn't care.
They go, okay, well, it's not my problem.
I can't do anything about it.
Right, but those people aren't going to do anything or care anyway.
They're going to drink Coke, cola, and die.
I stopped eating fast food and stopped drinking soda completely years ago.
And it was the best decision I ever made.
The problem is momentum, too.
Like, there's so much fucking...
Like he said, people drinking Coke, people buying shit at the grocery store full of sugar.
It's going to be hard to get people to change their ways.
You know what I mean?
There's so much momentum going on.
But that's what people...
People are...
They go, oh, that's terrible.
And they go, okay, well, if you want to fix that, you can't...
Let's say Coke.
I don't know if it's Coke, but let's say it's Coke.
You say, oh, that's terrible.
I should do something about that.
They go, well, you can't drink Coke.
And they're like, oh, well, I'm not going to do that.
But that's terrible.
They're not willing to give up stuff or put themselves out of...
To do better.
Most people.
Right, but we don't care about those people.
What do all animals on the entire planet drink?
Water.
Besides humans.
Coke.
Water.
But it's like another thing.
It's like...
My dog drinks Dr. Pepper.
What have people been drinking for the last however long people have existed?
Water.
Why did we switch it up and start adding all this sugar and all that?
Like, I've seen a polar bear drink Coke.
I've seen that commercial too.
I mean, that's natural.
They're red.
They're white.
It's because they want to give you cancer and they want you to die.
And they want you to pay medical bills and do all that shit.
Every time Trump does his hair, we lose a photo-zone layer and a polar bear sets on fire.
That's the goddamn truth.
Well, look.
Holding Joe Rogan there.
Then the polar bears drink less Coke?
So, Dan, sign the petition.
Hey.
Seriously, we should fly down there to Okeechobee and we should-
Can we just drive?
It's not too far.
But if we fly over, we can get really cool footage.
We can take Ben's plane.
True.
I have a plane that we can use for really, really cheap.
His friend has a plane we can borrow.
We should skydive right into the fucking farm.
And go just talk to those people and see what they think.
Put the camera in front of their face and hit record.
You guys see the video of Rick Scott eating at a restaurant in Venice and getting booed
out of the restaurant?
No.
Jacks, why don't you go to his office?
Pull that up.
I don't know what that would accomplish.
Talk to him.
He will not talk to me.
If you sit there and go, I-
But we got to work our way up the ladder.
If he knows who I am, he hates me.
But if you go there and you-
You have a chance to be like the next Michael Moore.
I'm pretty sure that if you go-
Oh, hit record on the camera.
Sorry.
I'm pretty sure if you go there, I think-
I don't know how, but there's a way where they have to respond to you.
Like, I don't know if you go there's the best idea.
But if you send them a letter or something like that, I'm pretty sure that they have
to respond to you like these government officials.
I mean, his office is a public office.
It's taxpayer money.
But I understand that, but is that going to solve anything, you know?
Well, it'll be interesting to get his perspective.
It might not solve anything, but it will make noise and it will fucking raise health.
That's true.
And we did get, you know, when we did the private beach prank, you know, pranking the entire
state of Florida, we got a statement from Rick Scott's office.
Right.
We did in that video.
Well, I think if you request, if you write them an email or a phone call, tell them who
you are and say you'd like to have a sit down, I don't know if you'll get him, but at least
somebody from his office, they will probably-
And we can encourage more people to write letters, call, let them know.
If we get 100,000, that's what I'm saying.
If somebody comes forward and I get an email of like, hey, this is something that we can
actually do.
If we get like 100,000, 3 million people on board with this, they'll have to do something
about it.
I just don't know what we can do.
Yeah.
If anybody watching this video has any inside scoop into somebody in these offices that can
get Jack's meeting, please hit us up and let us know.
You know what?
I love the evolution of the Jigsquad.
It's a long way, man.
I can't sit and watch this shit happen.
It just makes me so mad, dude.
But that's what's pretty funny about the power of the Jigsquad is you go anywhere, find
a 13-year-old kid, sorry, Jack, and ask him about the Jigsquad.
You're like their president.
He's crazy.
Oh, yeah.
He's run to the beach.
Especially because we got like Tifu on board now, too.
He's going to promote the petition either tonight or tomorrow.
I think he could almost single-handedly get those last 30,000.
If I can get 60,000, he can get 70,000.
And we only have two fucking days we need Tifu now to promote this fricking petition,
dude.
All right, 72,000.
You have 72,000 petitions.
Signatures, yeah.
So all you need is signatures?
Mm-hmm.
How many more do we need?
All right, 28,000.
Another 28,000.
We need 100,000.
Total, yeah.
Total.
For the White House to release a statement.
Right.
And if that happens, the state will have to take notice.
Hell, yeah.
There's one for Donald Trump to resign, and it already has 140,000.
That's not going to happen.
That's not going to happen.
It's right on the front page.
All they're going to do is they're going to release a statement about it.
That's a troll.
It's not like he can act.
Right.
He'll deport Justin Bieber back to Canada.
Like, you know, 400,000 signatures.
But the thing is, dude, like, the censorship on the White House website is unbelievable,
dude.
Like, you know, for over two hours, when I first launched the petition, nobody could sign.
For two hours straight, during the peak of my videos, traffic was going viral.
But do you think that was because of the, because they were...
You think they're trying to shut it down?
They have a crappy website.
They're the fucking White House.
Should they not have a website that can handle traffic?
Back to when they had the healthcare enrollment, it crashed like the first day they did it.
Yeah, but that's like on like...
Obamacare?
That was a huge scale.
That was a huge slide scale.
But I'm pretty sure they're probably...
I'm one YouTuber.
I don't think they're really trying that hard to make the petition side of the site that
great.
No, for sure.
I mean, dude, literally, I did an Instagram poll.
Is anybody having problems signing?
50% said they were not able to sign.
How many people responded to that Instagram poll?
Something like 30,000.
That's crazy.
See, that's the Jig Squad right there.
That's why it's coming out.
I am so convinced.
We have already had over 100,000 people try to sign this.
It's just not letting everybody sign it.
And it seems like the closer we get to 100,000, the harder it is for people to sign, which
is crazy.
And you have 48 hours.
48 hours.
Yep.
So are we going to have Ben on at 7.30 to talk about the other side of this or no?
Yeah, it was under 50,000.
It was at, like, 54,000 two days ago.
Now we're at 73,000.
We'll get there.
So I'm saying.
So then what?
Then we expect to hear a response from somebody.
The White House office has to release a statement.
Whether it's on their website, whether they directly hit me up.
Well, we're going to do something, dude.
We're going to make sure we get the fuck going on.
We got to go do some crazy shit, make a documentary about it.
I've been brainstorming as much as I can.
My YouTube channel is.
Evolving.
Yeah, of course.
But the reason why I've been so successful is because we go in the ocean.
We have fun.
We do 24-hour challenges.
We film all these videos.
I don't even want to be in my backyard right now.
Right.
You don't want to.
I can't film in the water.
Why my channel is known is the videos we filmed in the backyard and at the beach at
my house.
You literally, you're set for your film is infected.
I don't even want to.
I don't want to be there.
I want to go back to LA.
I want to go to Georgia and film with the Almighty or like just go anywhere.
You know, go back to Hawaii.
That sucks, dude.
I love this town so much.
So do I.
More than I love anything in California or anywhere.
Of course, dude.
I hate LA.
Like I like a lot of people in LA and I make really good content every time I go to LA.
But 10 out of 10 times, I would rather live here.
Well, think about like Danny, like your, you remember your series, Deck Hands?
Like you, like right now that would be like.
Yeah.
We want to talk to those guys.
Actually, that would be a good episode.
Are they really out of jobs right now?
Dude, nobody's going on fishing charters.
Like I will not buy any locally caught fish.
I will not eat any locally caught fish.
I'm not buying seafood right now.
I'm a pescatarian.
I don't eat red meat, chicken.
I don't eat any meat other than fish from time to time.
And I will only eat fish if I know it's locally caught by like, you know, some of the Deck
Hands by Merrick by somebody that I know personally that caught it.
Right.
Like I won't do it now.
I just no way.
When did you become that?
When did you start?
Uh, three years ago just because the like, I stopped eating meat when I looked into where
the meat that I was eating came from and I became so disgusted and so sick to my stomach.
Like if you know somebody that raises cows in like open fields that like live a good life,
you know, that's fine.
I have absolutely no problem with that.
But like the fast food industry, the meat, like the animals, what they go through for
you to get chicken tender.
Yeah.
That's the thing though.
Do you want to be ignorant to what you're eating though?
Like, no.
You should watch.
I just mean they're bad.
It's horrible.
It's so horrible.
Most of these animals don't even get to see sunlight until the day they die.
But that's the view I was talking about.
The people are, they go, well, that's terrible.
And they go, but I still want my McDonald's.
So I'm still going to eat there.
Those people don't matter.
But that's like everybody.
Yeah.
That's the pride.
I don't get it.
I do not get it.
Like if you want to eat meat, because it puts you out.
It's like, I want to eat my McDonald's.
I want it now.
I don't want to have to do any extra work.
And if that's what has to happen, then so be it.
And well, they make it affordable for, you know, poor people to eat cheap food like that.
Jack, did you not go to In-N-Out when you were in California?
No.
It's hard for me not to go.
I get it.
No, I get it.
But like then again, that's like, that's like the difference between someone with Instagram
followers and not, you know, it's just another person.
It's like it's not like, this person's not special because they have a certain amount
of followers or they might be, they might be really a really sophisticated smart person.
In my experience with people who are very popular on social media, nine out of 10 times,
they're very intelligent, very hardworking, like sophisticated people.
Of course, there's the one out of 10 that's just super ignorant and an idiot and became
famous off of being ignorant, you know?
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
This is my standpoint on meat and this is the reason why I don't eat anymore.
I believe that, you know, say a hundred years ago, hunting and farming and raising your
cattle and raising your pigs was a means of survival for a lot of people, 200, 300 years
ago.
On your own farm.
People, yeah, people had their own animals, their own cattle, so that they could provide
for their families, they could provide for their friends.
But we live in a day and an age where you can go to any store and get literally the
healthiest thing you could ever put in your body at any given time.
And still people are eating these animals that are being tortured and killed and just
like chicken pens, they live in, like they sleep on their feces and their piss and they
live on it and they get all kinds of crazy infections and, you know, they don't, they're
like, oh, this one, this one's infected and it's covered in tumors, so we're not going
to sell it.
No, they still sell that shit.
You know how many tumors go through chickens?
Like, dude.
I don't want to hear this.
I bit into a tumor.
I bit into a tumor.
No.
Where did you get chicken with a tumor on it?
Chick-fil-A?
No, no, it wasn't Chick-fil-A.
I was in California.
I think it was like a Denny's or some shit.
Oh, fuck.
I was stupid back then.
Five years ago.
I don't know.
McDonald's is the highest.
It was like the most disgusting shit that happened when you bit into it.
It was like, I can't even describe.
Was it hard?
Was it salt?
What was it like?
Like, rubbery and just, I can't even look at it.
Well, let's say, like, if you're driving down the road and you're like, man, I'm hungry,
I need to stop real quick.
Go get an apple.
Go get a banana.
Where do you even find one of those?
The McDonald's on every block.
Every gas station has a banana.
Right.
But if you're that lazy, then fuck you.
Yeah, you lazy fuck, dude.
If you can't fuck you.
I'm in that category.
If you go to expensive, health food's expensive.
It's like, you know what else is expensive?
Dying of fucking cancer when you're like, straight up.
You're going to die if you eat unhealthy.
And I think it's worth spending a little bit more money.
Shout out to Newport.
Shout out to the Newport concrete sponsor Newport.
But that's the thing is, like, there's people that eat super healthy, their whole life vegetarians,
and they die of cancer.
You never know.
I'm ready for a cigarette anyway.
Show me those people, please.
There's tons.
Dude, what?
Yeah, there is.
It don't mean it's the right thing to do, man.
I just, you know, I just want people to be healthy, and I want people to think for themselves.
And it's really easy to close your eyes and eat that burger without, like, you know, like,
I think that if you want to eat chicken and you want to eat a burger, go kill that animal
with your bare hands.
Yeah.
Cook it up yourself.
Ain't nobody got time for that.
I'm just saying, like, you know, like, it's kind of selfish to just, like, take an animal's
life that you know nothing about, I feel like.
Yeah, for sure.
It's like a conscious decision for me.
It just freaked me out.
And a lot of people feel that way.
It's a lot easier for me to instead of pick up a burger to pick up an apple.
It's like, all right, well, nothing died.
It's healthier for me.
Like, what the fuck was I doing?
Yeah, the world would be a better place for sure if more people thought like that.
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean, that's just my personal stake.
I don't look down on anyone free.
Like, I'm an advocate for healthy living.
I'm not going to look down on anyone or treat anyone differently for, you know, eating shit food.
I'm just going to be like, you're an idiot.
Like, why are you eating shit food?
Like, you could be eating healthy.
Like, I love you.
I want you to be a better person.
That's why I'm telling you this.
Like, I'm not, I don't like think you're a bad person.
I just think that you could, like, I don't want to say ignorant, like you're ignorant to it,
but like the definition of ignorant is uneducated on.
Yeah.
I think it would be more like lazy, like, or like.
For sure.
That's like my stance on it.
I'm hungry and driving down the red.
I'm not going to go to 7-Eleven and get an apple.
Like, I'm not going to be full after an apple.
I'm going to McDonald's, get a dollar.
Right.
But you could get a salad somewhere.
You could get all sorts of shit.
Yeah.
I mean, there's 80,000 edible plants and people are eating the same food.
You go to Wawa, get a veggie sub real quick.
I went to Havana Harries.
I got a veggie cuban.
I just ate there yesterday.
Shout out.
Really good.
Yeah.
I had to meet Cubans.
Their veggie Cubans are awesome.
I never liked Havana Harries.
Dude, Havana Harries is fine.
They're fine.
I love them.
Havana Harries and their rice and beans are on point.
Wait, wait.
Fuck Havana Harries.
Have you ever been to La Teresita in Tampa?
I have not.
That's gas too.
Bro, I have to take.
Yes, I took.
There's one on 66.
Who did we take?
I took Edwin or somebody.
Oh, Edwin and Brandon.
Oh, yeah.
After all.
Bro, I'm taking you to fucking La Teresita and you will hate Havana Harries after that.
It's the most ghetto hole in the wall Cuban restaurant you've ever been to.
They're open until like 4 a.m. on weekends.
Yeah, but he doesn't eat meat.
He just told you.
You can get beans and rice.
You don't have to get meat.
Yeah.
I'm going to say one more thing and I'll pretty much be done with the topic.
I want to ask you a question.
Go ahead.
You probably haven't, but at 4 a.m. at McDonald's, you go through the drive-through and it's
all Uber Eats.
Can you imagine?
Like you're saying like people are lazy.
They can't even go to McDonald's to pick up their own bad food.
I don't think Jack's even sipped his yet.
I have.
You know, I want to know.
You're good.
I'm good.
People are not only so lazy that they can't even go to McDonald's themselves.
They have to have Uber Eats to go to McDonald's.
Yeah, that's fucking a whole another level.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
Like these are the same people that go there.
We're asking them like not eat there ever.
They're like, they're not even willing to drive there.
But we're not asking those people that because they're not going to do it.
We're talking to people who are, you know, might make that decision.
Those people are going to change.
But there's a reason that there's a million McDonald's is because it makes money.
And there's also a huge reason why their stock is plummeting right now.
People are starting to realize like, why the fuck am I eating this?
Yeah, that's true.
There's a generational change between our generation and our parents' generation.
Yeah, the only time I ever eat McDonald's is when I'm fucking drunk as shit
and I want a hot fudge sundae or some fries and I just, there's nothing else.
It's 3 a.m.
I will get Chick-fil-A fries every now and then.
That's it though.
No potatoes were hurt making this.
Why is the ice cream machine always broke down?
Fuck dude.
I swear to God.
Why is the big flurry machine down?
I want to know.
It's always down.
If you're hungry and it's a sundae, McDonald's is calling and Chick-fil-A is closed.
You know, I consider myself lazy sometimes because I use Uber Eats.
But you know what I Uber Eats?
Turmeric, wheatgrass, ginger shot, and a smoke.
Oh, shout out juice habit.
Is that a dog?
I've never even heard of that.
Major, major shout out to juice habit.
How much is that?
I just had to juice habit this morning.
It's like 10 bucks?
10 bucks?
I could get 10 double cheeseburgers.
Okay, one shot of wheatgrass is...
They equivalent to 10 pounds of raw veggies.
Well, here's what's funny.
Think about 10 double cheeseburgers, right?
Think about how much resources it takes to make 10 double cheeseburgers, right?
Yeah, how are you going to feel after you eat 10 double cheeseburgers?
Think about how much resources it takes to make wheatgrass.
10 bucks also.
No.
Think about that.
No, that's not...
I don't believe that.
I disagree.
You could grow grass.
No, I'm saying McDonald's, you would think that should cost more.
It's got meat in it, that have a cow.
It's got a bun.
It's got a bulk.
Wheatgrass doesn't take anything to make.
It's like another thing.
All right.
I don't want to offend you guys.
Why the fuck do we eat hot dogs still?
Those are nasty.
Everything that you would never want to eat.
They're so terrible, dude.
Everything you would never want to eat, dude.
It's like, it's the butthole.
It is.
It's the balls.
It's the eyes.
It's the brains.
They grind it all up and they shape it like dicks and people eat it.
Now, Hebrew national, bro.
They just fucking shoot it.
I have a little tube.
Help me, dude.
Why?
One of my favorite videos on YouTube is when Snoop Dogg watches how hot dogs are made
and he fucking narrates it and it's so fucking funny.
He doesn't know what it is until it's the end.
Look at that, bro.
That's everything that you don't want to eat on a pig that they just throw into a grind.
You can hear this audio.
It's so funny.
Oh, it's heavy, dude.
At the end, he's like, what is this?
Hot dogs?
He's like, oh, fuck no, cuz I ain't eat no hot dogs.
I ain't never eat no hot damn hot dog.
Hey, I want to shout out Hebrew national hot dogs.
They make theirs.
Oh, look at that.
It's so fucked up.
Oh, my God.
That's a hot dog, bro.
Oh, my God.
Oh, I'm gonna throw up.
Throw up.
Yeah, but there's a lot of stuff that looks gross when you eat it.
That's fucking foul.
Hey, is there any fruit or veggie that looks gross, raw?
That's fucked up.
I had a jackfruit once.
So you got to pay attention to your fruits and veggies too, because there's a lot of
GMO fruits and fucked up shit.
You're absolutely right.
You know, seedless fruits and like, you can't even trust your own fruits nowadays.
But also everything that is in those fruit is also in animals and then the animal has
to die.
Fruits, fruit doesn't die.
It doesn't feel pain.
Actually, they do.
No, they don't feel pain.
Plants feel pain, right?
They don't feel pain.
They can kind of know what's going on.
They can pick up on brain waves.
Plants can pick up on brain waves.
We need to ask Ben about this.
When Ben gets here, we need to ask him his stance on McDonald's.
You ever see a plant get hooked up to a lie detector test?
No.
I think you picture the plant on fire in your head and it starts going like this.
Stop.
I swear to God.
Yeah, they're pretty good.
They're smart, man.
I saw on the Joe Rogan podcast the way the guy put it.
He was like, basically...
Can we turn off the hot dog video?
You can cut your fingers off and like, it knows, but it doesn't feel pain.
I don't want to know where my hot dog comes from.
No, you need to watch this for us because you're the guy that can eat all that Mickey D's.
I want this seared.
This is going to be seared in your little Jewish brain, big Jewish brain, because you're
really smart.
Hey, and those hot dogs were kosher too, I swear.
You don't want to eat those anymore for us.
I'm still going to eat them.
Let's be honest.
Look, that's what they do to you, tumors.
I want to mention is like, you know what's crazy to me is that vegans that promote health
and don't want animals to be murdered, I feel like it way more hate than people who do it.
But you know why?
Why?
It's because the vegans are typically like the peaceful earth, we don't like guns, and
the people that eat meat are the ones that kill animals, which are like, yeah, guns,
I'm going to go kill you if you don't agree with me.
Yeah, they're just numb, you know, it's really sad too.
Because the meat industry, all these cattle, more carbon gets released into the air, which
is going to be the end of our atmosphere.
It's proven, every scientist who knows what he's talking about whatsoever will stand by
the fact that once too much carbon gets released into the air, we're all going to fucking die.
Oh yeah, that's of course.
It's guaranteed.
And most of the carbon that gets released into the air right now is because of all these
cattle farms.
That's true.
So that's another reason that I stopped eating meat is because I don't want to contribute
to the death of our planet.
You know, I just don't want to do it.
And every time I eat meat, I feel like I am because...
Can I take the fat people stance real quick?
Yeah, go ahead.
Don't add fatty.
I feel like if I stop eating at McDonald's, it's not going to do anything though.
McDonald's is not going to close because I stopped eating.
Right, but he knows that.
It's a ripple effect.
It's like, it's one person stops, two people stops.
But the thing is, it's like, do you personally want to contribute to the death of the planet
or do you want to feel like you're contributing to a better planet?
Think about it this way.
Think about...
You can't worry about everybody else and make your decisions.
Think about it this way.
It is a really slow effect.
Think about how people thought about McDonald's 20 years ago.
It was the greatest thing in the world.
Versus how people think about it now.
McDonald's was like...
That's true.
When McDonald's first came out, it was great.
You know it's bad for you, but you eat it.
It was like Disneyland.
Yeah.
My dad talks about McDonald's like, when McDonald's came around, everyone ate there.
It was the greatest thing since...
Oh yeah, the fucking play place and shit.
And then like, it's like the government pushing us to drink milk our whole life.
Milk builds strong bones.
Dude, I haven't drank milk.
I haven't drank milk in a decade.
Real talk, I did stop drinking cow milk.
What's wrong with you?
I drink milk.
Are you serious?
Yeah, of course I drink milk.
I'm American.
I drink Coke.
I got a McDonald's.
I drink milk.
You're gonna fucking die.
You're gonna fucking die.
We're all gonna die.
I'll be happy.
I grew up my whole life drinking milk, whole milk.
Dude, when I got a McDonald's and I get that dollar cheese for it, I'm like, this is the
best deal I got all day.
You seriously drink milk?
Yeah.
Why not?
A lot of people still drink milk.
We are the only animal on this planet that drinks another animal's milk.
Yeah, that's fucking gross.
It's not natural.
If you think about it and watch some shit about milk, you won't drink it.
Drinking milk makes your bones more brittle.
Another thing.
That's not true.
That's not true.
It is.
No, it's not.
The calcium makes your bones waver.
Calcium?
Hey, hey, hey.
You know what else is in milk?
Listen to this.
There's more calcium in one clove of broccoli than there isn't a whole gallon of milk.
I think that's fake news.
No, it's 100% true.
We're gonna have to get nutritionists in here.
Yeah, you could look it up, bro.
All protein from meat comes from plants.
People are like, how am I gonna get my protein?
How do you think the animal got its protein?
We're gonna have to do a follow-up with the nutritionists.
This is going off topic, but I have real questions I need to answer.
You gotta do some research for us.
This is all true.
We gotta watch some Netflix documentaries.
There's like 10 times more protein in kale than there is in meat.
Oh, yeah.
10 times more.
I eat kale, too.
I have watched...
See, I'm not discriminated.
I eat all of it.
Dozens of Netflix documentaries directed by left Democrats than any of you.
And a lot of those documentaries are complete shit, but there's so much truth there.
There is.
There is a lot of truth.
And the thing is, I click-mated the shit out of my last video.
I put a dead body in my thumbnail.
It wasn't actually a dead body.
I just wanted to create a thumbnail that would get as many people as possible to look at
my video because I know that it's for a good cause.
If you have to lie and you have to trick people for a good cause, I'm all for it.
If people hate you for tricking them into looking at something that's gonna greatly
benefit the planet or the state or your life, by all means go for it.
I will never be mad at somebody for tricking me into looking at something that's gonna
help my life.
Speaking about clickbait, I want to talk about...
This is like way off topic.
But dude, have you looked at Joe Rogan's channel?
He is like opposite of clickbait.
So real.
Dude, and it's so successful.
Because he has good guess.
Sickest podcast.
That's why we have Jack on here.
Is that an interesting thing?
Let's talk about that for a second.
That's like a really...
Honestly, he's one of the one most successful media outlets in the world right now.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
He's doing not zero clickbait.
It's almost negative clickbait because there's thumbnails, the titles.
They're like...
All it is is episode number, name of person you've never heard of.
But they talk about shit that gets so much attention.
What I want to say about that is there are a lot of really dumb people unfortunately.
But there's also way more people that are actually really sophisticated.
The people that just sit in their house and you know like...
I like to think that like out of every 100 people, 99 of them have more good than they
do bad.
Yeah.
There's a lot of people who get off on inspiring educational conversations where they're actually
talking about something of substance instead of like...
Fuck bitches, get money, smoke dope.
There's a lot of people that are really that love that.
The thing is I watch all those videos but it's because I'm like, is this really what
our generation is into?
A lot of people find it comical.
This is sick.
I gotta follow up question of the milk thing.
Yes, please.
I will answer any question.
How do you eat ice cream?
I don't.
That makes everybody happy.
Listen, candy tastes great.
You can make ice cream without milk.
With in moderation.
There's alternatives of milk.
You gotta drink almond milk and shit.
If I had no McDonald's, no candy, no ice cream.
You would probably...
The quality of your life would enhance drastically.
No, it would not be so depressed.
You do anything fun?
No, I work and then I buy McDonald's and ice cream with them.
That is your satisfaction in life.
You need to seek out something better.
But it's all good.
You gotta live your life, man.
If you want to eat McDonald's, fuck it.
Eat that McDonald's, bro.
I want you to live longer and I want you to be happy.
Thank you, Jack.
I appreciate you caring about my well-being.
Fully be satisfied until you find something that you're passionate about.
Is this not more fun right now?
Is this not more engaging and more interesting than eating a cheeseburger?
Yeah, this is good.
There you go, man.
There's a lot of other things that are way more fun than this.
But I'm gonna go home and I'm gonna eat ice cream, probably.
That's fine.
Hey, that fucking...
Whatever that thing is that you jumped off of in LA, how high was that?
70 feet.
Yesterday in the Bahamas, we were driving through the woods
and we found this big hole in the ground.
Because in Freeport Bahamas, there's this underwater channel of caves
that run through the whole entire island of Freeport.
And scuba divers have explored it or whatever.
So if you're driving through the woods, you can find these giant gaping holes
in the rock that go into a big pit of water
and that water leads out through caves to the ocean.
And we found this big hole in the ground, in the woods,
and there was a ladder coming out.
So we jumped into it.
I think it had to have been no more than 30 feet, dude.
Scared the fuck out of me, dude.
I'm getting older or whatever and you do it all the time.
You should drink more milk and then you won't have to worry about it.
It scares me worse than it does.
I'm glad that was a joke.
Was it?
No, but it was a series.
I'm taking it as a joke.
If this is more than twice the height of that, dude,
there's no fucking way in hell I would have jumped off it.
That was easy for me.
I've got a lot higher than that.
What's the highest you've ever jumped off?
St. Hebrige.
St. Hebrige.
When you were little, did your dad let you have milk?
It's a big ass bridge.
My parent, I drank more milk than all of you.
I guarantee it.
Yeah, that's why you don't break bones when you're jumping off all those bones.
I had broken more bones than all of you put together, too.
I guarantee you.
I would have broken more if you didn't have milk.
Right, before us.
Thank you, Mike.
Have you done any research on this force?
Are you just going off of what you've been told your whole life?
I can tell you why I'm thinking this.
So when I was little, I drank like my dad, according to what I heard,
two gallons a week.
Right, which is probably not true.
I drank more than that.
I never broke a bone in my life.
And then, in fact, I had to have my baby teeth.
Did you ever do anything that you possibly would have broken bones?
Did you do anything risky?
I had to have a dentist extract my baby teeth because my bones were so strong.
Because the milk rotted them into your gums.
These guys over here are convincing us that his teeth are so strong that he drank milk.
We just lost the battery.
Do you care?
I'm not even playing devil.
I thought that milk was good for you.
Right, and I did, too.
I did, too.
So did I.
I'm going to seek professional...
But I've watched some videos and shit, bro.
Jack, if I get a nutritionist, will you come back?
Yeah, me and him will bond and become best friends.
I'm finding a nutritionist.
Hey, but look, I'll tell you what.
I saw a nutritionist when I went to the gym.
I had like a free thing with my trainer and a nutritionist.
And the one thing they told me was to stay away from dairy, for sure.
Yeah, dairy is fucked.
Is milk dairy?
I guess so.
What do you mean you can't?
Milk is like the poster fucking billboard for dairy.
Okay, look.
They try to fatten these cows up as much as possible.
Well, that I understand.
These hormones and shit, they pump into those cows on the daily.
Well, they also blow up if you don't milk them, though.
But listen, you're not supposed to milk them.
They're babies who are supposed to drink the milk.
Baby cows.
Like baby cows.
Like humans.
You know what a cow looks like?
I'm going to have a nutritionist back here and a cattle rancher and someone from Big Sugar.
And we're going to...
That's what I'm going to say.
Get them for us.
They don't give a fuck what's coming out of those udders.
Do you know how many cows udders get crazy infections where pus...
They check it.
No, they don't.
They test it.
Do you think they test millions of cows a day?
No, they test the milk.
No, they don't.
Yeah, they do.
No, they fucking don't.
They're not allowed to sell it unless they test it.
That's why they pasteurize it.
Yeah, exactly.
And that kills all the bad shit.
No, no, no, no.
You got to watch some videos, bro.
Who told you this?
They can't sell milk without testing this.
This is what they do.
They test it.
They can be like, all right, well, it won't kill you instantly.
They can still sell candy.
If you watch the process, you're going to be like, this is fucked up, bro.
This is not what I thought.
I'm saying they can't just suck it out of the cow and go, here you go.
No, but they're saying here, fucking suck it down and then passing the test.
But the test is bougie anyway.
Alcohol is legal.
Marijuana is not.
Alcohol kills so many people every year.
Marijuana has killed no one.
But it's illegal.
And alcohol, fucking anyone can walk into any storm by it at any time.
So that's where that's where the lines are blurred.
But to say like, they're like, well, they can't sell it.
They can't sell it.
If it's not, if it's not OK, well, they sell fucking alcohol.
Are you drinking enough of that shit?
You're going to die.
It's guaranteed.
It's proven.
It happens all the time.
But the thing is with milk, pus and blood and all just the like the most disgusting
infected cows ever, they suck that shit out of them till they're dry, dude.
That's true.
Like dogs, they don't drink fucking cat milk and vice versa.
You know what I mean?
And they stop drinking when they grow up.
Right.
I'm getting a new tristiness.
We're doing, we're doing part two.
I'm literally, this is going to happen.
Forest is in full blown shocker now.
We're going to save you.
We're going to save you, bro.
I'm forest.
I give it like a month or two.
Dude, I have almond milk.
Forest is going to be vegan.
Ice cream tastes like shit.
He's going to be fucking.
I'm going to send you strawberries.
Regular ice cream.
Oh, no.
I always got the most butter fat from the cow.
Tastes amazing.
No, I also taste amazing.
Right.
But you know, like skinny people that look healthy, like you get cancer too, bro.
I'm getting fat in my old age.
No, you know, I've been doing, I've been doing yoga.
So I don't, I'm not getting fat ever.
Just stop drinking milk.
Do you do yoga?
I stretch a lot.
I don't do yoga.
Dude, you got to come to yoga with me.
I'm down.
Hell yeah.
Every Wednesday at now it's 545.
That's good for you.
I'm down.
Danny does once a week hot yoga.
I don't fast.
I don't go in the sauna.
I heard you're wrong, but I heard that.
None of that.
I just heard that you're way better off doing regular yoga than hot yoga.
I heard that too.
It's like you're not supposed to exercise in like, in a heat.
When do you guys scolding heat?
I never understood why people did that anyway.
Every Wednesday.
Yeah, you should come for us.
Oh my God.
Cause like if you want to, if you want to go do a full yoga session.
Me and Ben are out making money.
Oh yeah.
And then jump into a sauna.
That's cool.
But I heard that like something about when you're in the heat and like the blood flow
to your brain.
I'm not an expert.
I have absolutely no idea.
I read that.
I read that.
But I heard it's not particularly better for you than just doing yoga.
I always wonder why the fuck people didn't do hot yoga.
What hot yoga?
Yeah, why hot?
Cause it's good.
I don't know.
You just sweat more?
It's just like a trend.
Cause I sure did sweat my fucking ass off when I won.
No idea.
I have absolutely no idea.
Why do people eat ice cream?
I don't fucking know.
Why do people eat ice cream?
Cause it tastes.
No idea dude.
It's amazing.
Yeah.
I like it.
It tasted good ice cream.
It tasted candy.
Yeah.
Of course.
Do you eat it all the time?
No.
I eat it when I'm depressed or when I want to feel good.
AKA yeah.
I eat it all the time.
Everybody's got their bite.
I work out.
I do something productive.
I feel better about it.
Soundman smokes a cigarette.
You work out.
I eat cow milk.
I go to the gym.
I don't drink milk but I do.
Yeah.
You smoke a cigarette.
You smoke a cigarette.
Yeah.
He smokes fucking hell away too.
I quit smoking cigarettes.
I quit drinking milk.
That's good.
You're working.
One step at a time.
As long as you're making a conscious effort to become healthier every day.
Come on my way.
The thing is like it's not something.
I wish I could be vegan.
But it would be so hard.
Don't do it.
Just don't do it all at once.
The thing is with me.
But I would like to be vegan.
Yeah.
No.
Cause that is the healthiest diet on the planet.
Yeah.
It is.
It's very hard though.
It is.
Especially when every restaurant that you will ever go to tries to put cheese on fucking
everything.
And I like cheese.
I do too.
You're right.
And we shouldn't.
We shouldn't have that camera.
Fuck with cheese.
Damn.
It's just crazy.
Oh.
Cheese has milk in it.
You gotta do yoga.
I know.
I know.
Try hot yoga once.
But you gotta try to do just a couple little things.
I try not to.
I should eat cheese.
Bad for you bro.
You're absolutely right.
Bring your girl too.
Absolutely right.
She'll love it.
Come down.
Do you bring any weed brownie sweepy?
Well it's like the thing is just because a lot of people do something and because
you grew up on it doesn't mean it's necessarily good for you.
True.
Like when I go to my grandma she's still like, you know what's crazy too is like between
my cousins and myself and my sister like tons of us are going either vegan, vegetarian
or pescatarian.
And that's why McDonald's is having trouble with our generation because they don't understand
our generation.
Because our generation is figuring it out.
They're like wow.
They're killing us.
Because our entire planet is going to fucking die.
Hopefully our generation isn't too late and we can still save the world.
There's a whole topic on millennials and how we eat now.
They're more so much smarter than past generation.
It's crazy.
Millennials will spend eight dollars on avocado toast because they're vegan.
It's because we see all the baby members that we notice all the baby members that fucked
shit up and so the younger people are kind of taking notice of it.
Honestly stop drinking alcohol.
I will drink alcohol on occasion on very special occasion.
I can't stop drinking alcohol.
But people drink alcohol.
What's funny is I have friends that go to the organic supermarket.
They buy all organic food, all organic this, that spend hundreds of dollars on organic
everything.
Hell yeah.
Money well spent.
Yeah.
And then they rent their house.
They rent their car or they lease their car.
They don't own anything.
Who gives a fuck about any of that?
They spend all the money on.
So what?
But their quality of life has never been higher.
You can't take the fucking house with you when you die.
That's true.
Forrest, you're like a mini fucking bin.
Because we're in business.
We need to make money.
Not everybody's time to play games.
Because he's a Jew.
He's a good Jewish boy.
Right, but your whole life is revolving around making money.
Yes.
Life's bigger than that, bro.
Fuck money.
If he wasn't here, we would all just be sitting here agreeing with each other.
Who gives a fuck about money?
Yeah, true.
We do need you here.
I have a customer and he says, he says people that say money doesn't buy happiness are
liars.
Because.
They buy you temporary happiness.
But a lot of them fucking rich people put it in suicide.
Well, also money can't buy health.
They people say that.
Yes, it can.
Because if you go to the doctor, what do you pay him with?
You don't pay him with money.
But you don't have to go to the doctor if you ain't sick.
Everybody gets sick eventually.
Yeah, you don't fuck.
Not everybody.
You know who gets sick way less often?
Italians and vegans.
Is that fake news?
No, that's real news.
That's facts.
We're going to find out when I get this nutritionist in here.
Oh, I can't wait.
What is your nutritionist, bro?
I can't wait.
No, I want somebody.
Are you guys friends with this guy?
No.
I want somebody that's literally like a professional.
This is all new info to Forrest.
I know about where milk comes from.
Forrest is the professional devil's advocate.
Forrest has no idea about anything healthy.
I was homeschooled my entire life.
I did my own research.
Yeah, tell me about that.
Explain that to me.
That's something that a lot of people don't understand.
For somebody like me, that's like, that's kind of crazy.
So you're homeschooled your whole life.
What was it like being homeschooled your whole life?
Give me a percentage.
How much that you learned in school
Have you not used in your life whatsoever?
99.9% of everything I think I taught in school,
I've never used in my life.
And you guys are asking me why I was homeschooled.
I agree.
No, there was a lot of things.
There was a lot of things.
I'm not asking you why.
I want to know.
If I'm going to be serious, it's at least 65%.
At least.
Basic math.
And that's about the only thing I've ever used in my life.
The only reason you would ever need to know algebra is to be an algebra teacher.
No, that's not true.
I mean, not no.
You're building something out of wood.
In construction, I use basic math.
But you can also do that with basic math.
You don't need algebra.
No, I'm not using.
I work in construction.
I use an algebra.
That's not your industry.
There's algebra.
There's uses for algebra.
Sure.
If you're like an engineer and an architect and shit like that.
I mean, if you just depends on your job.
I'm fascinated by algebra.
I think it's whoever created the whole formula.
It's genius.
Now, what I'm saying is like, if so, if you know early on enough that you are not ever
going to do a job pertaining to algebra, then you shouldn't have to take it.
And that's what schools are going towards now is more.
What do they call it?
Focused learning or whatever.
If you know you want to be a contractor when you get older, you can just go straight to
that.
You can cut out American history or whatever.
I don't know.
They do that.
I don't think they let you do that.
No, they're starting to do that now.
Maybe in private school, they let you do shit like that.
Jack doesn't like anything we have right now.
Jack doesn't like the food, the school.
Jack, what was it like being homeschooled?
The greatest experience ever.
That was the exact opposite.
It was amazing.
Why?
Why?
Because my parents let us express ourselves creatively and they thought there's a lot
of shit in the public school system that my children are never going to need to know.
And they believed that they could teach us basically good morals and basic math, how
to read, how to write on their own.
They just thought that they could teach us a lot better than their parents taught you.
Yeah.
My mom, I had a tutor from time to time, but when it came down to it, I didn't do much.
I did not do much schooling compared to the average kid, which is awesome.
I think it's great.
I mean, look at me.
Shut the fuck up.
Because you and your brothers are obviously way different than everybody.
But you guys are also extremely, extremely lucky to be in the positions you guys are.
No.
Definitely.
I agree.
I had nothing to do with it.
How many people are on YouTube right now that have so many?
Not a lot of views.
And look at you.
You have tons of views.
I've also been working every single day for letting you know.
Right.
No, no, I'm not saying that you're not working hard.
I'm saying if you didn't have YouTube and you, what's that have to do with luck?
Because just like football players, it's like, how many people play football?
How many of them are professional football players?
I mean, there's genetics.
I mean, there's genetics.
The best people make it to the top.
The best athletes that work harder to train are that are better than other people.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Hold on.
The number one.
I'm not shitting on you about it.
No, no, no.
Wait, wait.
The number one non-quarterback in the whole NFL is shorter than all of us.
Because he's lucky that he has whatever it takes.
How is he lucky?
He has no genetic looks.
He's lucky that he has whatever it takes to do the job better than anybody else.
He trained probably his whole life.
You're lucky.
You're lucky.
You got the genes you got.
You're lucky that one of your videos...
Antonio Brown is the shortest guy.
He had no lucky genes.
He's the shortest dude.
No, not lucky genes.
He was...
That's even more luck.
He was lucky that he didn't have the good genes.
How tall is he?
Isn't like...
He trained harder to run faster and catch the ball more than other people.
That's a good take on it.
Well, what I was trying to say, and I'm not shitting on Jeff, I'm just saying...
Winning the lottery is luck.
That's a lot.
Being the best football player in the world is not luck.
No, I didn't have to agree with that.
True.
I guess that there's some aspects to where sometimes things fall into place, but I consider
that more of fate.
It doesn't look like...
Yeah, fate.
But I wasn't trying to be rude to you, but I want to say, if you're trying to get certain
jobs, let's say a large majority of people in America have to get jobs or work for somebody
else.
They can't make content.
They go to get a job and they look at your paperwork and they go, where'd you go to school?
If you were homeschooled and you don't have a college degree, they're going to throw your
shit out.
You're never even going to get considered.
That's why you should never want to work for someone you should always want to work for
yourself.
Well, that depends on the job.
But ultimately, we need people to work for other people in the world to work.
Also, 99% of the people have gone to traditional school and they were put through the system
to believe, they're bred to believe that they have to be a part of the system.
Let's say you need to get your brainwork done.
You have a brain tumor and you go to the doctor and he goes, oh, I was homeschooled.
Would you be...
You're not going to be a doctor at the homeschool.
You can't be a homeschooled brain surgeon.
So that's what I'm saying is you want traditional schooling for certain career choices.
Sure.
But it's not for everybody.
Right.
It's not for everybody.
But it doesn't have anything to do with luck either.
You can make it without school.
We're not talking luck anymore.
Okay.
We're past luck.
All right.
Well, when it comes to like a very specific thing like a brain surgeon, yes, but what
people like, all right, this is my problem with this generation, the thing that pisses
me off more than anything on the planet is when somebody says, I don't know how.
I can't because I don't know how.
It's like, how much effort have you put into figuring this out?
Yeah, that's true.
I reached a point in my life where I was like, if I didn't know how to do something, it bothered
me.
And I knew that I had all the tours.
We have the internet.
Yeah, you could do anything.
We have virtually...
You could figure it all out.
Any answer can be questioned.
And if you're not getting the keys then...
Any question can be answered with the internet.
Well, what I was worried about is, do you have a large following of kids that are in
school still?
Yes, absolutely.
And I don't want them to get the wrong idea, seeing you say, oh, it's home school is the
best thing that ever happened to me.
And then they go, I don't want to be in school anymore.
Jack says, it's a waste of time.
Why should I go?
He didn't say it was a waste of time.
That's what I'm saying.
Drop the fuck out right now.
Don't go to college.
That could be very dangerous for a lot of people.
Finish high school?
No way.
Don't go to college.
Tell your parents to go fuck themselves.
In 2018, college is fucked, dude.
Roast them.
I mean, I'm going to get shit on here.
Hey, but look, if you want to be a YouTuber like Jack, like the people that are looking
up to him, you don't need to graduate high school.
You don't need to go to college to be the fucking top YouTuber.
Why is that luck?
Why is that luck?
You have a master's degree?
Yeah, a master's degree.
How much has that done for your life?
Well, when I see a customer and they come in and they go, why should I use you?
And I go, because I have all these...
That does not mean shit to me.
Well, because that's you.
But I have million-dollar companies that come to me and they go, we want you to do our work.
What can you show us?
Why should we use you?
I say, because I'm real good.
I respect you.
No, because they look at my people.
You could probably spit better game in there.
Your own business.
For sure.
I respect every...
And it's not necessary in every industry.
I think school is good for a lot of people.
I think that if you're going to school to genuinely use that as a tool to better your
own business or your own life, like, do you work for someone or do you work for yourself?
Do you run your own business?
Yeah, I work for myself.
So because you work for it, you don't need a degree to work for yourself.
No, you don't.
But it makes you look way better.
When I was in school, one of my professors said, I never knew you even went to college
until today.
I have two undergrad degrees and a master's degree.
I went to so much school.
But you're done with school, right?
Yeah.
But how much money do you still owe?
On school?
Nothing.
Nothing.
All right, so here's what I want to know.
That's impressive.
Because my parents planned ahead and made sure that that was...
So shout out to my parents.
Shout out to my parents.
That doesn't happen to most people.
Shout out to your parents.
Your parents are very financially intelligent.
They're Jewish.
Yeah, and that's what they passed on to me.
They're Jewish.
Not to be racist.
So what I'm saying...
What I'm saying is that...
Not to be racist.
Shout out to the Jews.
What was I saying?
Shout out to the Jews.
I totally threw it around the whole world.
I forget what I was saying.
You were talking about your degree and your parents making you go to school.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So when I got...
When I was there, I was like, this is a waste of time.
I'm already making money.
Why should I even bother?
And now, literally when people come to me and they go like, what credential...
I meet people from government, like governors and senators and stuff like that.
You're best friends, Rick Scott.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's Ben's best friend.
Let's not go back to that.
Yeah.
And I met somebody the other night.
I want to name him because I don't know if he wants to be on the video.
But I met him and it's like, well, what credentials do you have?
And it's like, oh, I have this and that.
And they go, oh, okay.
And it's like, it's like almost in their mind.
It's like, now this conversation can continue.
You know what I'm saying?
Because it's like...
And when I was in college, I had a professor and he said, he goes, everybody's here to
get their ticket punch.
That's what he told me.
So not necessarily...
You're not necessarily there because you want the knowledge that they're providing
you.
It's that once you finish, you have that degree that no one can ever take away from you and
it makes you look really good on paper.
Like if somebody didn't know...
It's overrated.
And they didn't know Jigsquad and they didn't know Forrest or whatever.
And they just saw both of us on paper and I had a degree and you did it.
For what job though?
I'm a very closed minded way to look at something.
But they're automatically...
I'm not saying this is not true, but they're automatically going to say, well, this guy
had the wherewithal to go to school.
He must know more than Jack does.
In that particular situation, that is correct.
I don't even think that's correct.
That's how employers hire.
But not everybody.
Two resumes.
What job are you talking about applying for?
I see a job.
I send my resume in.
I have a degree.
You don't.
Who's getting hired?
We live in.
It doesn't matter.
Yeah, sure.
It matters.
All right.
We live in a time where...
One motherfucker at a time.
Shut the fuck up, bitch.
If both of you applied at a construction company I work at, I'd probably hire Jack because
he looks like he could work twice as hard as you.
And I don't give a fuck if you have a degree because you probably can't even hit a nail
with a hammer.
Find a construction company, call them up and say, would you rather have somebody with
a degree or a foul?
I work with construction.
Nobody that we work with has a degree, everybody has a felony on their record.
Exactly.
Because that's...
Nobody has a college degree.
They have a felony.
I'm going to get crucified in this video.
I should just leave.
I want to make a point.
Okay.
Fuck a degree.
All right.
This is 2018, right?
I'm not trying to be...
No, I'm not.
Let's make it a little shame.
Let's just let you know.
Fucking drunken stone.
I'm just letting you know.
Forrest has a master's degree.
Fuck that degree.
We're all different.
I mean, but respect for getting your degree, Forrest.
I do respect you as a person for going through that.
But that's not why I have it.
I didn't get it because I want somebody to respect me.
I got it because my parents made me, but now that I'm done.
You're happy with it?
Yeah.
I'm not using that to your advantage.
But I'm telling you, I have it on the wall and I don't like put it in the front door,
but I have it behind my desk in my office.
When people see it, they're like, oh my God, you have that?
They change their outlook on me.
Much more respectful.
Right.
But what type of person does that outlook change?
Everybody.
Not me.
I didn't walk in here and change my outlook when I saw it.
That's interesting.
That's interesting.
It's interesting.
There are some people that do.
In school, when a teacher asks you, kid, what do you want to be when you grow up?
99 out of 100 say, I want to be a YouTuber.
Yes.
That's what I'm worried about.
Why?
Another thing I'd like to say is, hey, Shane, I'm sorry, I'm trying every fucking time
he says something, bro.
Let him talk.
I have customers that are doctors and their kids say, I want to be, I have a customer.
But I don't get it.
He's a doctor.
He's a multi-millionaire doctor.
His son has a picture of you on his wall.
Fire.
I swear to God.
And he goes, I go, what do you want to be when you grow up thinking that he'd say, oh,
I want to take over dad's multi-million dollar business?
He goes, I want to be a YouTube star.
It's way more fun.
It is.
But we need doctors.
We do.
Smart.
That's wrong.
That was Ben moment.
Right.
But that's not every kid.
That was Ben moment.
We need people.
You're slowly turning into Ben.
Can I get another drink, please?
Ben's house every single day of this week and he's rubbing off on this.
Yeah.
We're going to have to cut you off a bit.
Hey, but look, I understand you need doctors.
You need all those people.
You do.
That doesn't mean that some kid can't want to be a YouTuber.
What was your dad telling you when you were eight, nine, 10 years old, like elementary
school age, middle school age?
What was your mom and your dad telling you?
You have to go to college.
Everyone else is in school.
That's interesting.
Have to.
That's very interesting.
Thank you.
But you weren't.
You weren't even in school.
So I want to know what your parents were communicating to you when you were that young age.
Why did they want you to go to college if they homeschooled you?
A lot of rich people.
High school is fucked.
I think we can all agree that high school is corrupt and there's way more bad influences
nowadays than there are good.
And I don't know.
They just didn't see the public school system.
If I went to school, I would probably go to a private school.
Fortunately enough, I had parents who were financially stable that would be able to afford
for me to go to private school, but they would prefer to do it on their own.
They wanted me to go to college because my dad is very old fashioned when it comes down
to it.
He is a firm believer that if you don't go to college, you are going to be a fuck up
when you grow up.
Really?
Yeah.
He pushed so hard for me to go to college, told me YouTube was fucking stupid, told me
not to make YouTube videos, told me that we're dreaming that we're idiots.
Me and Merrick, we had a very clear vision of what we wanted this YouTube channel to be
and we saw its potential and we were so confident in its potential.
But he didn't believe in it at all at the time, to be perfectly honest.
Now he's got 50,000 Instagram followers.
Can I ask a question or do I have a lot of questions?
I wanted to add something.
I've been trying to say this for a minute.
You fuckers can chime in after.
There are certain industries that are in no way reliant on social media.
However, I'm a firm believer that most businesses nowadays thrive online unless you're a restaurant.
Most businesses need social media.
Are you going to go with somebody that has a marketing degree in college or are you going
to go with me?
Somebody who has millions of subscribers and millions of followers on all of their social
media platforms.
Are you going to go to the guy that has a degree or are you going to go to somebody
that has actual proof that they know what they're talking about?
That's true.
To be perfectly honest, that's not just social media.
You can learn so much more online than you ever could in school.
Everything that you learned in school, you could go and figure out for yourself online.
You could become a mechanic, you could become a doctor.
When your parents were raising you when you were young, I want to know what that was like.
Then he's trying to be J-Rail again.
I'm trying to get some shit.
We need to get into this.
My parents, I just fucking had to go to school.
The only thing I was worried about was waking up in time to get to fucking school.
I didn't learn much other than social skills or whatever, but what were your parents telling
you?
A lot of your friends, I'm sure, were in regular school, right?
What did your parents tell you?
Why you were being homeschooled or what was the reason for it?
They just didn't like the school system.
I can feel that, I'm finished.
To a point, I was very sheltered growing up.
I was very sheltered from pretty much everything outside of my own life.
I lived at the beach, I was in the ocean every day.
I did baseball growing up, I did golf.
I actually have more golf trophies than I can count.
I was one of the best golfers in Pinellas County for my age for years.
That's a rare fact.
Yes.
But somewhere there's a storage bin somewhere completely stacked full of golf trophies.
I probably fucked up by not being a golfer because I was really good.
Next time it was.
Yeah, I don't know.
But they put me in Little League and stuff like that to where I had a social life.
I was in co-op, which is basically one day a week, homeschoolers all go together and
they do school together so that I had somewhat of a schooling experience.
You know, I didn't make friends with people who were in public school until I was probably
14 or 15 and it was because of skimboarding, it was because of surfing and I ended up ultimately
giving up golf and giving up baseball and everything that I enjoyed when it came to
sports because I enjoyed surfing and skimboarding so much more.
That kind of shaped who I was because the skimboard and the skate and the surf culture
is more of like a beach bum like, I don't know, when you're a golfer you put on your
button-up shirt and you make sure your collar is straight and when you're at the beach it's
way more carefree and it's way more like your form is not perfect, you know, it's like everyone
has their own.
You don't even need a shirt.
As a surfer and as a skimboarder you have your own style.
So that was a really awesome way for me to express myself freely and I believe that the
strictest parents raise the worst kids when it comes down to it.
Maybe not every single time, sometimes strict parents can raise great kids that become doctors
and musicians and are like perfect cookie cutter children that they want them to be but
my parents hardly ever said no.
If I wanted to go out and I wanted to go hang out with friends and I wanted to do this,
I wanted to do that, they really did not care what I was doing as long as I wasn't doing
drugs as long as I wasn't getting wasted.
They really said yes to a lot.
Hey mom, can I hang posters up all over my wall?
Can I paint the fucking ceiling purple like whatever I wanted, whatever any of us wanted
when we were growing up as long as we weren't hurting ourselves, as long as we weren't being
mean to other people and like I have friends who are single-child, single-childs, single-children
who-
Only-childs.
Yeah, only-childs.
Shout out to the only-childs.
I'm one of them.
I'm an only-child.
Like my girlfriend, she has a really like, I don't want to say she has a problem sharing,
she's just like in my family, if I had a toy, it was everyone's toy.
We always shared everything with each other, nothing was mine, nothing was yours.
It was a very like, like while we could do whatever we wanted, we also had to make sure
that we were fair to each other growing up and I mean I honestly know where I'm going
with this, but it was just, it was a very free, like if I wanted to give up baseball,
that was my choice.
If I wanted to stop taking piano lessons, that was my choice and I did, I regret it
because I really wish I knew how to play piano better now, but-
But you can learn on the internet.
They were exactly, and I have, and I have, and I've gone online and I've tried to go
back, I can play a couple Elton John songs, so I'm happy with that, you know, but like
they were not strict and they pretty much just let us like freely express ourselves
however we wanted and they never let us play video games growing up.
Turner never played video games until he was like 12 or 13.
That's so crazy.
Come to be one of the best gamers on the entire-
So wait, they were strict, they weren't, they were strict about certain things.
They were strict about certain things that they didn't think was good for us, like they
were strict about us not going to school, they were strict about us not playing video
games, spending enough time outside, but like, I think they did it perfectly to be honest,
you know, I think that the way that they were like-
I'm not complaining.
My brothers and my sisters, my two brothers and my sister are all great people, very genuine,
would never want to inflict pain on anyone else wrongfully, like I think my parents did
an amazing job and like I am not book smart by any means whatsoever, like I have, you
know, when it comes down to it, I'd say above average grammar, like I can read and write
very well, my handwriting is absolute shit, there's no justifying that, I can't write
for shit, but I can type fluently like my entire life, I was always writing short stories
and you know, like I can spit out a thousand words onto paper, like it's absolutely nothing.
And I don't know, like when it comes to book smart, like I'm definitely not book smart,
I don't know science, I know history from what I've learned online, like I like to think
I'm pretty well educated on the stuff that I need to be educated on, but like I don't
know algebra, I know basic math, that's about fucking it pretty much, but like that's nothing
that I've ever needed to-
Right, you've got the tools that you need for your life and you're good.
And like I taught myself how to make a website, I taught myself how to use Photoshop, taught
myself how to use cameras, taught myself how to be an editor, you know, I taught myself
how to design products for my store, I taught myself how to make stickers and order them
to buy hats, to find the cheapest hats online so that I can sell merch, but like also a
good quality because I don't want to sell people complete shit.
And I don't know, just everything that I ever did, it was something like that I genuinely
took interest in, like they never forced us to do anything that we really didn't want
to do and I think that that was so important and I've learned so much.
If I ever have kids one day, which I'm terrified to have kids at the rate that we're destroying
the planet, to be perfectly honest, I don't want to bring children into a world that's
just going to be super fucked up because we're well on our way there right now.
But I don't know, I think just like freedom of expression, just like letting them be who
they want to be and letting them like learn for themselves and you know, you can always
guide them in the right direction, but you're not always going to know what's best for them.
Like my dad told me YouTube was fucking stupid and I needed to go to college.
He was dead wrong.
He was obviously wrong.
Dead wrong.
Completely wrong.
Yeah.
Clearly.
Two years ago, he was like, Turner can't be playing this much video games.
I'm going to set a timer, I'm only going to let him play an hour a day, he's fucking
dying in there.
The boy was wrong about that.
So wrong.
So unbelievable.
That's what I was talking about, like Turner might not, like let's say Turner didn't make
it, then that would have been bad, but you don't know.
But maybe he would have been doing something else, making money, man.
Do you know how many times I have failed in making a viral video?
Almost every single time.
There's a very few times where the video will do as well as I had hoped or even better
than I imagined.
You know, and like, that's just trial and error.
You got to fail a hundred times before you like, I think of it as paying you dues.
You're like your full time job is YouTube right now, right?
Yes, absolutely.
But it won't be for long.
I don't plan on that.
That's what I was saying.
What I do forever.
Is it sustainable for the rest of your life?
Absolutely not.
I'm just saying that is my tool in my next step.
I don't know.
I just know if my YouTube channel got deleted tomorrow and I could never upload another
YouTube video ever again, I am so confident I would still do just fine.
What would you do?
Whatever I want.
Here's another thing.
That's scary.
That's scary to do.
You don't know.
I've created over a thousand videos, all of which have been backed up.
Maybe I'll make a TV show.
Maybe I'll put everything I've ever filmed on Instagram.
Maybe I'll go to Facebook.
Right.
You figure it out.
I don't have time to try to get my clothing company into every surf shop or into Walmart
or into this and into that.
That's because I enjoy making YouTube videos so much that I don't feel that I need to do
anything else.
I see YouTube as just the first step in whatever the hell I want to do in the future.
Honestly, right now I haven't figured it out.
YouTube is working well for me right now.
If God forbid it dies tomorrow, I'll go on to whatever I feel like doing next.
I could make a living for myself in the skimboarding industry by selling skimboards.
I'm a partial owner of Apex Skimboards.
I could push those for the rest of my life and probably be okay, but I want to do better
than that for myself.
Would you sell merch to Walmart?
What the hell?
Yeah.
They're big corporations.
I don't care.
Support sugar.
How do you know that?
They buy a fuck ton of sugar products.
I don't have to buy sugar products for them to make money from.
They distribute it.
Going back to how your parents raised you and being homeschooled and all that.
How ... because a lot of people may not notice it online, but I noticed it.
How are you and Turner so different as far as your personality?
We are so different, dude.
It's crazy.
Unbelievable.
How close were you guys growing up?
Not that close.
Really?
We were.
We were, but we also fought a lot.
We beat the shit out of each other.
Really?
We were perfectly honest.
Who's older?
I am.
You're older, right?
Three years.
What's your perspective and a lot of people that are close to you?
How are you guys ... why are you guys so different and how are you guys so much different?
We always bonded on ... we both love surfing and love skimboarding.
We both love cliff jumping.
Honestly, when we were younger, I was better than Turner at skimboarding.
I feel like ... I don't want to say he resented me for that.
It's funny when we have skim videos on.
It definitely bothered him that I was better than him, and he always wanted to be better
than me.
It's crazy because I consider myself to be ... I want to say this humbly.
One of the best skim boarders on the planet, and Turner hands down one of the best long
boarders on the planet.
Skateboard.
Yeah, longboard skateboard.
Yeah.
I was very good at longboarding, but he was just so much fucking better.
I had skimming on him.
He had skating on me.
I have surfing on him, and now he's just the best gamer in the world pretty much right
now.
It doesn't matter what game he plays.
It's not just Fortnite.
Destiny.
Huge game.
Broke.
So many world records.
H1Z1.
Huge game.
PUBG.
Huge game.
Top of the leaderboard on those games.
The way his brain is wired, he's just ...
But like your guys' personalities, I notice you're really outgoing.
You're really just outgoing over the top.
Turner is just so ... He's quiet.
Even there's videos of you running into his room on, I think, his birthday or something,
and throwing money at him or whatever, and he's like, dude, get the fuck out of here.
Why would you give me this?
I don't want this.
Get out of here, dude.
It's because he doesn't want to feel like he owes anyone anything.
He knows that he can be successful on his own, and he doesn't need anyone's help.
He's always very appreciative.
Look at that.
Campaign party.
Super stoked on that, you know, hyped, but ... He's just such his own person, and the
thing is, he is very quiet, for sure, compared to me.
He's definitely way quiet.
He's like, I don't know.
I'm very just ...
He's a little more shy.
Yeah.
Well, but the thing is, in a battle of the wits against Turner, I am ...
He's funny as hell.
He will ... If we're all sitting here roasting each other, if I say something that I think
is just going to shut him down, he will shut me down every single time.
He is a very, very ...
That's a common thing with brothers that grow up to.
They always end up on polar opposites.
Like as far as personalities go, like one will always be on the far opposite side of
the other.
Of course.
Do you have a brother?
No, I have a sister.
You have a sister?
Yeah.
Older?
Older, yeah.
Okay.
How old are you?
Four years.
I don't know.
Probably one of the most sophisticated people I've ever met in my entire life, hands down.
But just like ...
What does Tfoo even mean?
It's just a four-letter username that ...
TFUE.
How did he come up with that?
They just wanted to ... In the Xbox community, if you had a four-letter username, you were
in OG.
If you had a short username, it was dope.
They just literally ... Him and his friend Alex just started a randomizer of four-letter
user names that weren't taken.
They were just looking through them, and Tfoo popped up, and he was just like, Tfoo, pretty
dope.
You know, Turner's my name, starts with a T. I'm going to go with that.
And everyone picked it up as Turner fucks up everyone.
It's crazy how he's blown up in such a short time.
Turner fucks up everyone.
I love that.
I'll tell you something crazy.
I was just in Aruba last week, and we went to do some shit, build some dog houses and
shit anyway.
This lady's house in Aruba, and her son is 13 years old, and he knew that we knew Tfoo,
me and Mike, and he was the biggest Tfoo fan all the way in Aruba.
Dude, every 13-year-old gets such a Tfoo fan.
You know Tfoo.
I'm flying all the way to Aruba, and this kid's like, although he wants to talk to me
about is how close does Tfoo live, and can he meet him, and can I call him, and I'm like,
no.
I had a customer in the other day.
It's crazy.
It's all over the world.
Yeah.
Her kid was watching his iPad, and I'm like, what are you watching?
He's watching Tfoo on Twitch.
It's fucking wild.
It's crazy, too.
It's like, you know, Juke Squad, PPJT, that stands for Pat Pierce, which is my brother,
Jack and Turner.
Most people don't know that.
I always wondered what that meant.
It stands for pulling pranks, Jack Tenney, which is what I went with for a while because
the kid Pat, who was the P in PPJT, one of the P's, he ended up being a real scumbag
because I wish him the best, but he just made some really questionable decisions.
A real twat.
It's my personal life, and what I get all the time, dude, any time I use Turner, put
Turner in a video, you know, champagne party with Tfoo, people are like, you're using your
brother for views.
Quit clout chasing your brother.
Why are you using your brother for clicks?
I'm like, dog, we've been doing this shit for 11 years together, dude.
I've been pushing Turner as hard as I can on Twitch.
The amount of times I've tried to shout out his Twitch in my videos is like, I couldn't
count.
And now that Turner has more subscribers than me, I'm using him for it.
Right.
Is he a vegetarian?
Turner now.
Yeah.
No, he's not.
That should concern you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But we're working on you right now for it.
Yeah.
We got to worry about you first.
Oh, what I was going to say, we kind of veered off this topic, but like when it came to eating
meat and being a vegetarian, like I was the guy that never thought I was going to be
able to stop eating burgers and salami and pepper, like I loved that shit.
Like every single day I would eat like a salami, pepperoni, sandwich, sub, you know, Italian,
whatever.
Yeah.
But just slowly, slowly, slowly, I would eat it and I would just like, it just started
getting weirder and weirder to me to the point where I was like, why am I not eating
an apple or a banana or something?
And I was just like, you know, I'd still eat it from time to time.
And then it's just like, the last time I ate meat was in Mexico three years ago, three,
three and a half, almost four years ago now.
It was a street taco.
Street tacos.
Perfect.
Street tacos are fire there.
They are fire there.
And I know that that comes from like probably a local rancher because it's a small town
where I was at.
So I was okay with that, but it just came down to the point, you know, I watched some documentaries
and I, you know, like Tyson Chicken Nuggets, they were in my freezer one day and I was
like, where does this come from?
I looked it up and I was like, uh-uh, never again in my life will I eat meat that I don't
know where it comes from.
And that's like my standpoint on fish, like a fish lives a free life out in the ocean.
It's not tortured its entire life and go out there, fucking shoot the fish, catch the fish
and then eat it.
Well, you know, they say you are what you eat.
I'm a firm believer that like, if you're stressed or if you're depressed, like that
shit gets stored in your body, you know, like your muscles will start to aching, you'll
start to get sick if you're too stressed or if you're too upset.
And like, if you eat the meat of an animal that's like tortured and depressed and stressed,
that stress goes into that meat, and that'll affect your psyche, you know, and that was
another reason I just, I was just like, it's not worth it, like, I don't need to eat something
that dies.
Like, I mean, I still eat fish from time to time, like I said, but like it's only in
moderation, it's only from a source where I know exactly where it's coming from and
I was okay with that.
But I do see myself stepping away from it entirely at some point.
I just don't think anyone should try to do anything cold turkey.
No.
Yeah, same thing.
Like for me, where I am now, like the shit I eat now is like radically different from
what I ate when I was in my early teens.
Me too.
Me too.
I eat much healthy.
All right.
Let's let's let's let's let's let's wrap it up.
Let's wrap up.
What do we want to say to the people, man, to wrap it up, clean up.
Hang on.
Let's bring, let's bring Ben in for like 30 seconds.
Just for the last 30 seconds.
So Jack can fucking put him in his place.
Ben, come here.
Come here.
Come sit.
We'll save Ben for the next one.
No, no.
I want him to, I want to put Ben in his place with Jack right now.
We're going to tell him what we think about the red tide and his little friend, Rick Scott.
Come here.
I got to take a pee break and a cigarette before we get on here.
Come here.
Come join.
Let's take a break before we get Ben on.
Hold on.
No, no.
I want Ben on here.
I want Ben on here real quick.
Let's get this over with.
Let's get Mike.
You know, I would shake your hand, Ben, but you said some really mean things about me
in the last podcast.
I'm not sure if I want you anymore.
Ben, you were talking some shit about my friend Jack and his brother in the last podcast.
I thought we were going to bring it up.
No, I want to bring it up.
I watched the podcast, man.
It was very mean.
You were being.
I consider myself an entrepreneur, you know?
You can sit.
You can sit and get close to the mics.
We can hear you.
I met your father.
Nice guy.
You know, I understand.
Sit.
You got to, you got to, sorry, but you got to scoot closer.
What?
Scoot a little closer.
All right.
You know, you're in luck.
Why?
You're in luck.
My son, Aaron, happened to be a big fan.
He was.
My dog.
Now I'm going to drown them.
Now I'm going to drown them.
Let's let this live.
Everything you said was wrong in the podcast.
Yeah.
I don't even remember.
You were being a real ass to his dad.
No, I wasn't.
Yeah.
You were calling me a scumbag hippie.
I didn't say scumbag.
I didn't use those words.
Okay.
You're right.
You were calling some names.
You were, you know, here's the deal.
I didn't call any nasty names.
I don't understand the younger generation of, listen, if that's the younger generation,
do you want me to be nice to you?
If I cut, if I cut my hair, would you respect me more?
I want you to be nice.
He probably would.
He probably would.
You know, you can live your life any way you want.
I don't care.
Do what you want.
Everybody's got some nice in them, right?
As long as you don't bother nobody, but you do bother people.
So that's the problem.
Let's talk about.
We talked a lot about.
I'm going to come here and beat this guy up.
I don't want to be nice.
We're going to talk about.
I want because his son's saving the world.
Yeah.
We talked a lot about the red tide.
We're going to find out all the, the, figure out all the problems in the world.
Here's the conclusion we came to.
Ben, we want you to look at the camera and tell everyone to go click the link and sign
the petition.
Please.
Tell everyone, all your fans out there to sign the petition on the White House website,
which is in the link in the description to what does it do, Jack?
Well, hey, Ben, I would like to say we don't have a lot in common, but can you agree with
me that if the ocean.
If the ocean dies, we all die.
Yeah, but you can't like all those dead fish in your backyard, Ben.
No.
What's the real deal?
The real deal here is that a couple of dead fish floating on your surfboard while you
were surfing and you're upset.
Okay.
You wiped the blood off and you move on.
How are you going to sell real estate if this whole state is a toxic waste, Ben?
It happens every year at the same time for 100 years and you need a scientist to maybe
be able to figure it out.
I think it has something to do with, I don't know, must be something to do with something.
Cattle ranch is definitely something to do with something.
It's been going on for 100 years.
So it can't be the cruise ships.
It can't be anything we're doing now.
It's been going on documented for 100 years.
Yes.
Naturally, it has happened a lot of times, but we have broken every yearly record of
dead wildlife when it comes to dolphins, manatees, and sea turtles in one month.
More dead wildlife in one month than any previous year.
And that's not natural.
So this is the super red tide.
Yes.
But it's not natural.
I mean, they need to get the scientists and all the oceanographic people out there, oceanography
people.
Sure.
You know what I mean.
And get them out there and try to figure out what's causing all this algae into the
heat.
It has to do with the temperature, the water, the ocean.
Right, but they did figure it out.
Oh, yeah, they did figure it out.
They said it's like a sugar company's pollutant waters and all that shit.
Pesticides and manure and it's all the runoff.
Drain into the ocean.
Well, you know, like fertilizer, like phosphate, it's a huge industry.
Huge industry, but it's not good to put fertilizer in clean water.
Can you?
Wherever they found where it originates and causes it, they should stop it.
Right.
But they paid your buddy Rick Scott, took a bunch of money, said they're allowed to dump
it in the ocean.
I don't know.
I don't know what the case, but the point is that they determined where the source is
coming from.
They need to stop it.
So here's what we want.
But they're taking money and coming right now and they should clean it up.
It's easy for him.
All he has to do is move somewhere else and sell real estate somewhere else.
You're not going to be able to sell shit in Florida in a couple of years if this keeps
up.
Nobody's going to want to live here.
It goes on for a period of time and you need to figure out what the cause is and stop
it.
Dead dolphins right there.
Look at that fucking dolphin.
Where was that?
Dead sea turtles.
Two.
Treasure Island.
Clear water beach.
That's in Jack's backyard right there.
The whale?
Yes.
Two whales.
Two whales.
I have footage of it.
In one weekend.
I'm uploading a video tomorrow about that.
It hurts me more than anything.
You own a hotel on Clearwater Beach.
Clearwater Beach.
But the point is, you know...
Move your mic so we can hear you better.
So we can clean up the beach.
But you know, they need to find out what the cause is and definitely cure it.
So me and Jack are going to fly...
It's only a tide.
We need to borrow your plane.
It only travels like, you know, in a tide like or it doesn't consume the whole...
It does.
Panama City.
It does.
It's from here to Panama City now.
85% of the Florida coast.
Which has never happened before, ever in history.
Well...
It's also never lasted this long.
This is a nine-month red tide when the last...
The record-setting red tide last time was six months.
Stop whatever the cause is.
But they're not going to stop it.
So it's coming from Panama City Beach area.
It's not coming from there.
It's ending there.
It's coming from the canals that are being drained from Lake Okeechobee.
Lake Okeechobee.
And I think also Lake Apopka in Orlando is one of the biggest, is the biggest lake in
Orlando.
I think that's also really polluted with pesticides as well.
Yeah.
And that drains into Lake Okeechobee, if I'm...
I believe so, yeah.
And it doesn't happen anywhere else in the country.
No.
Not at this...
I'm not sure.
I don't know about that.
Absolutely not.
Any other body of water.
Only ours.
No, red tide is definitely a naturally occurring phenomenon and red tide is classified as an
algae bloom.
So to say that this is red tide technically is correct, but this is not... this is no
longer a naturally occurring red tide.
This is because of the pesticides and because of the manure and all the runoff from these
cattle ranchers that get drained strained into the lake.
And if you know the historical flow of water, Lake Okeechobee used to drain into the Everglades.
You know why the Everglades are the way they are?
Because all the water in Florida drains south.
They completely cut off Lake Okeechobee from draining south and they send the water straight
east and west, which then hits the ocean, which causes this supercharged red tide algae
bloom and it fucking kills everything.
That's all...
That's it.
Red tide is the algae bloom.
And the algae bloom...
But it's not a natural algae bloom anymore.
Red tide has not naturally occurred on its own since 1920.
Why are we picking up a bunch of music in the background?
You're the sound man.
You're asking us.
The sound man's asking us for the sound man.
I feel like forest.
I fucking found him on Craigslist.
I'm sorry.
Send him back to Radio Shack or they're not in business anymore.
They close down.
What's that computer running over there?
No, that's something back there.
No, it's coming from over there.
Forest, we're picking up all your audio.
That's a good wrap up.
I think that was a good podcast.
So what are they finding when they take these dead animals that they're finding the bacteria
in them?
Can they trace the bacteria?
I think by that time it's too late, Ben.
By the time they find the dead animals, all you can do is just...
They're already dead.
They're already dead.
I know that, but you can still do testing on their tissue and then whatever disease is
inside of them and try to determine what the source was, maybe.
I don't know.
They do determine it.
It all comes from Lake Okeechobee.
The algae blooms in the lake have been getting worse and worse every year.
All right, so let's fill in Lake Okeechobee.
Ben, we're going to borrow your plane and we're going to fly down to Lake Okeechobee.
We're going to go talk to these people.
And then me and Jack are going to fly up to the panhandle and we're going to meet up
with Rick Scott and then...
What a podcast.
Can you get us an interview with Rick?
No.
Hell no.
He hates me, dude.
Can you get us an interview with anybody?
Only yourself.
Did you know that Rick Scott cut $700 million of budgets from the Water Preservation Act?
Nope.
Well, there's another problem.
I'm not informed.
Why?
Well, thank you guys for having me.
It's been great.
Sign the petition in the description.
Please sign the petition.
Sign this fucking petition because we got...
There you go.
Natural water flow and the unnatural water flow.
Look, this kid might know what he's talking about, Ben.
The source of where the pollutant is being used, that you believe the pollutant's coming
from.
We have.
Look, it's right here.
Lake Okeechobee.
The news is telling you.
Except for the news I'll never tell you.
Who's the source?
Where's the source?
Lake Okeechobee.
How's it getting into Lake Okeechobee?
All those cattle ranchers.
All those cattle ranchers.
All those cattle ranchers.
Listen, where is it entering into Lake Okeechobee, the exact spot they're polluting the water
at?
I'll tell you right now.
Look, sugar...
Big sugar farms.
Right there.
They look good.
How come they don't pollute it?
They're built on swamp land.
They're built on swamp land that has been drained.
It's just like your lawn looks good, but the reason is because of all the fertilizer.
Yeah, exactly.
And in order to keep those crops growing and not flooding, they have to drain all the excess
water that falls on top, which then goes straight into Lake Okeechobee, so all the fertilizer
and all the pesticides that are on those crops get washed into the lake, which creates these
toxic algae blooms, and instead of sending itself into the river of grass where it would
then be cleaned before it got to the ocean, they send it straight into the San Luis River,
straight into the ocean, and it kills fucking everything.
That's it.
Sign the petition today.
Jack, thanks for coming on the podcast.
Jukes Squad.
Jack Tenney.
Thanks for having me.
You won.
All right, Broski.
Thanks.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
