All right, cool. So super last minute podcast today. Thank you for doing this, John. So
for people out there who may not, who are listening, who may not know, tell me, explain
to me who you are and what your background is.
Well, I'm Albanian first off, and I'm involved with the Gambino family since I'm a kid, literally
young kid. And I moved down here to Tampa back and forth from New York to Tampa, Florida to
set up some businesses, which I did. I set up a parking company. I set up nightclubs,
glass companies, and I based down here bookmaking. And we ran things back and forth from Florida
down back to the East Coast. Okay. Now, what specifically, what specifically did you do,
like in your height of being involved in all of this and being involved with the Gambino family?
And what, what are you specifically known for? Well, I was known as an enforcer of the Gambino
family. Okay. Specifically, I worked later on in the years for the Gotti family directly and was
there enforcer, the killer, the guy that went that you didn't want to see if they had a problem with
us. Okay. So obviously, if you're admitting you were a killer and you're sitting here right now,
not behind bars, how did that happen? I wasn't jailed many years. Tampa, actually,
my case was based out of Tampa, Florida. Although I was a New Yorker and born and raised in New York,
we expand the business down here to Florida and the Middle District of Florida and up sending
indictment, RICO case against me. And I went on a lot on the run, which they say on the lamb,
to probably about 20 countries. And eventually I was caught in Brazil by Interpol and imprisoned
in Brazil for two and a half years fighting extradition back to this country, which eventually
they got me back here and I did the circuit of prisons in Tampa between Falkenburg,
Hernandez County, Pinellas County, Hillsborough, Lake County, I've been in all these jails here,
Miami, MCC. So I'm very familiar with the system in Florida, Miami, Tampa area.
Okay. And what exactly were you locked up for? I was charged for drug dealing, murders, murder
conspiracies, assaults, and just a slew of everything which they bottle up in what they
call RICO. I was involved in a RICO racketeering case and with the Gambino family and considered
a street boss. Holy shit. Okay. So how did you get out of prison if you had a murder charge?
How did you beat a murder charge amongst all of these other insane charges?
Well, when I was down in Brazil, when Interpol catches me, I'm doing about two years, two and a
half years there. Well, I did exactly two and a half years there and I was brought back here on
Christmas Eve 2006, almost 2007. Extradition law is a 30-year sentence between countries. So a face
in life here, once I left the country in order for them to bring me back, the maximum time I can get
on that extradition treaty is the maximum life sentence in Brazil, which is 30 years. So once
they bring me back, it's a 30-year term and about 25 on that. I was in my 40s, about 40,
41 years old when they grabbed me. Okay. With a 30-year sentence? Well, prior to that, I've been
in and out of prisons basically my adult life. So I was in and out. I did a three and a half year
bit on a gun charge. I did some assault charges. I did six months a year, three months, three
months violations, bribery cases. So I'm accustomed to the system. Wow. And so it seems like you
obviously got a lot of time knocked off that sentence, right? I mean, how did you get all
that time knocked off? Well, once I come back to Tampa, Florida, well, before I come back to
Tampa, Florida, there's a couple of guys that were involved in the associates of mine that
fly down to Brazil and they give me paperwork on certain guys in the Gambino family, one of them being
the son of John Gotti Sr., the boss of the Gambino family from the 80s to the 90s who
dies in prison. But his son was what they call Queen of the Day. So Queen of the Day is somebody
that walks into the government, makes a deal with them to give up crime, criminal activity,
and he's free to talk about anything, can get charged with it at the same time,
giving up activities of associates, members of the Gambino family, or of other organizations
and other families. So that was, I guess, around 2005, 2004, 2005, thereabouts, while I was in
those penitentiaries, Gotti's son, Gotti Jr. was Queen of the Day. He was Queen of the Day,
meaning that he talked to the FBI and got full protection from them? Yeah, exactly,
cooperate. Most people don't know what that is. And then it translates into what they call a 302.
I mean, you're never going to get all the documents of what he was talking about. But
the thing is, he met with the government and he started cooperating. Yeah.
How old were you when you started getting involved with these guys?
I was a kid. My father was involved with my uncle in the gambling business. My uncle was a,
ran a game called Three Card Monty in a Bronx with Charlie Luciano,
was a very famous gang's name, Lucky Luciano, the cousin of Charlie Luciano Blackie was my
uncle's partner. So I would be at those games at five, six years old. And prior to, I mean,
after that, Andy Ruggiano was the boss in my neighborhood. Andy Ruggiano was a quiet dawn
in my neighborhood. He was the guy that ran our area for the Gambino family, a very famous gangster.
He was straightened out or became a made member of the mafia through Albert Anastasia. Albert
Anastasia was murdering. He's also a very famous gangster, killer. I hung around that family and
played baseball with them, boxed with them, went to the gym with them and became very familiar with
the ways of the mafia being quiet and underground. And despite what people see later on in the
gaudi era of the loud and the boishers, it's not the way the gang's is operated for within the mob.
It was a quiet organization. It was supposed to be there. So guys like Andy Ruggiano was a true
boss. People really don't know who it is because he's very quiet. Yeah, behind the scenes guy.
So what chain of events led up to you actually meeting the gaudis or gaudi,
gaudi senior was the first guy you worked with, right? Well, you know, again, I'm around the
Ruggiano family and I'm around and meeting different gangsters. Did you know like when
you started and you were with those guys, did you know who the gaudis were? I mean,
no, they didn't have that name back then. Okay. Gaudi senior ends up getting straightened out
in the late 70s. His brother, Genie, a little before him, a couple years before him. I don't think
they ever get that right in the media. Genie was actually a made member first. Genie. Gaudi.
Genie Gaudi. Okay. And senior Gaudi ends up getting a name for himself in the early 80s,
in the 70s through a murder, but in the early 80s where the public really knows him.
And later on, the Fat Andy Ruggiano goes to prison. So senior steps in his shoes and becomes
the boss in our area, which is the captain and skipper at that time. Okay. So as time progresses,
yeah, I'm meeting different mobs and a Gambino family and senior becomes one of the guys I meet
and junior I meet through mutual friends. We're all in the same neighborhood. So it's not really
somebody would say to you, it's like living in a Tampa area and you go to international mall and
that's where the scene is set and everybody sees each other on a daily basis. So it's, you know,
just a mixture of where we live in the area. And one of the authors, a writer, Lou Romano,
talks about, you know, your zip code and your zip code determines the way of your life. And our
zip code was, if you could spell zip code, my area was 11421. But if you spelled it a different way,
it would be mobsters incorporated. I mean, it was just gangsters around and that's how we were
raised. And what specific area was that? Like what specific town was that? I grew up in Woodhaven,
but the aligning neighborhoods I was on park was also a gangster area and Howard Beach is
where the Gotti family lived. Okay, I don't even know where Woodhaven is. There was a New York,
it's a Queens, Queens, Queens, and it's in that area. It's different townships and
within Queens. Wow. So what was the working relationship with you and Gotti when you guys
first met? Like what was the first interaction like? And how did that become a working relationship
between you guys? Well, I was known to be a scrappy kid prior to that. And he was always fighting.
You were a fighter? Yeah, I was a fighter. I was always in the gyms, but I was a fighter in the
street more so. I wasn't a big guy. I was a small guy. It was good with my hands. And most of the
guys from my neighborhood were tough. You know, I'm not the only guy that was fighting in our
neighborhood. Everybody fights. Whether a good fighter or not, they fight. And Jamaica Avenue
where I was from was more of a poverty stricken area, lower middle class, I guess, lower class
depending on where you live. Jamaica Avenue? Jamaica Avenue, that's Queens. And where the
Gotti's live, where Howard Beach was more of a money area. So some of those kids from that area
would come up to Jamaica Avenue where the Ruggiano family was from and where I was from. And they
started nicknaming our area for the violence it was and death haven instead of wood haven.
And so as time progresses, the kids are all meeting each other through sports, through
activities, through, you know, different things. And Gotti's were one of the names and one of the
families that were around the area would come up to our area. And we started mixing with each other
and continued in criminal enterprise. We were all on the streets, either selling drugs, moving
money, bookmaking, hurting guys and hustling. So wow, that was our everyday life. I mean,
this is what goes on in high areas. Okay, so so you guys kind of like you guys rub shoulders,
you guys knew a lot of the same people. And then how did he did he was he the one that
approached you and said, Hey, I want you to be my hit man. Or did he say, Hey, I got a job for
you. How did he introduce you into the into his life? He was dealing drugs with another guy,
Johnny Gebbett, they were moving pot and small stuff, not really small levels, but, you know,
nothing major, major truckloads, but, you know, 100 pounds, they were buying at a time 200 pounds,
something like that. And that was his partner. And Gebbett also knew me and lived around a corner
for me. So I first moved meet the son that way, the father I meet through some of his associates
and older guys and through his son. And I start mixing with them, they're big heroin movers.
And they asked me to get involved in heroin trade. So I start slowly getting involved in heroin
besides, besides the pot business, marijuana, cocaine, and like any business, you expand. So
you start in one drug and we're expanding all over and I'm moving drugs, okay, from a small
level to a big level. Okay. And from there, I just step into the violence. It's just a slow process
of. So you started making quite a bit of money moving drugs. Oh, yeah, we're all making money,
big money. Really? Yeah, we come in from, you know, I was probably at the time I was talking
about a million a month and holy shit, you know, and I think that's low bone and being conservative.
So the different guys that were around with us did interviews and said that that number is not
right. It's higher than that guys that actually were my friends and later on became my enemies,
guys I shot that spoke up and did interviews and said, I think John's on the plane, the amount
of money they were making and how violent he was. But I mean, everybody's going to have an opinion
of what was accurate, what wasn't. But the accurate number, I think is safe to say about a million
a month. Holy crap. And how did you translate? So what what transitioned you from making money
dope dealing to like, were you actually like getting paid to execute people?
Well, it doesn't really work like that. I don't know how it works. So I'm ignorant.
I give you an example on the drug deal. You're a drug deal. Somebody tells me you're moving drugs
in the neighborhood. It's not that I'm sitting there peddling, you know, quarter keys, keys,
grams on the corner, there's people that are working for us. And if they tell me about a guy
like yourself, we'll approach you, find out what you're doing. And you're told to do business with
us for us. And I'll give you guys that run around the street. If you don't do business with them,
you know, you're going to jeopardize yourself, whether you're going to get hurt or killed,
depending on what you do. And so in the, in the middle of us doing business,
everyday business, guys are getting killed, guys are getting shot, guys are getting hurt
to expand our business, to expand the business is not always expand, it's always to preserve it.
Anybody's challenging it. And it's not just the drug business. It's the same for the sports
business union business. So depending on what the issue is, you know, the whoever's in charge at
the time, whether it's, you know, Fat Andy Ruggiano, whether it's Goddy or whoever whoever's
calling the shots, they'll delegate work to guys like me and different guys to go out and we,
you know, we'll either collect the money shooting guys moving drugs, bookmaking,
and hustling the streets. So we're controlling our, our streets under the flag of the Gambino family.
And this is everyday life for us. Wow. How old were you when you first shot somebody?
I first shot somebody was probably around, I guess, 18, something like that, 18, 19.
And that's got to like, seriously do something to you when you're doing something when you're
doing that, that young, like violence at that age, it's got to change. It's got to,
you know, you grow up in an area where I was one of the slow walkers, what you would say,
as far as committed crimes or killing or hurting guys, actually, I had a slew of friends,
cousins, my cousins, my friends, they were all a lot more dangerous than me.
So I was a little more of a slow walker. And as crazy as that seems, I mean,
not later on, I bypass everybody and I start becoming the guy that's doing all this work.
And one by one, my cousins are getting killed, my friends are getting killed, and I'm out
doing the work and killing and, and moving towards the hierarchy of the Gambino family.
Wow. How many, how many people would you say that you ended up shooting or killing?
You know, again, I just sped it out, sprued out on the value entertainment names, places, dates,
witnesses of what I did. And I held back probably about 25 shootings that I could continue with.
And, you know, we're doing shows, movies, and a lot of that stuff and dates and times and places
we're saving for the actual films that are coming out. We're doing a series coming out.
Yeah, I guess that's a big question. I mean, I mean, judging by, you know, that you're past and
like the violence and all the criminal violence that you were involved in and all the shootings
and killings and the jail time you did, I mean, obviously those are super interesting stories.
But so why do this? So why come out in the media and why talk about all this and tell the story?
Like, why do this? Well, because here's one of the reasons. When I first was in court during the
trials, the Gotti family, their lawyers said I shot about 60 guys. So I never denied any,
how many people I shot, how many people I heard, how many people I baseball batted stabbed. I mean,
I was very famous for saying, yes, I did. You know, so I don't deny that walk I took in the
streets. But, you know, one of the things people know that I do now is try to help kids not to
follow that path and follow those footsteps and save themselves a lot of pain and anguish
and maybe save their life. So I'm out there publicly doing talks at colleges, at schools,
high schools, at juvenile centers. And my thing is to try to help some kids save their lives
around the world. And, you know, I've been around the world. I do talks in Switzerland. I've done
talks in the UK. I've done them in New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia, this area in Tampa,
Florida, and I'm very public doing lectures all over and trying to, you know, give people the
real of what goes on within the streets, what goes on within the mafia and murders and, you know,
the everyday life of being a criminal. And you said, you also said that you're,
you're pretty close friends with Sammy the Bull? Sammy is a guy that obviously was an underboss
of the Gambino family. Most people know him. If you don't know him, you can look him up. And
he's just recently done an interview in Value Entertainment, which I also done a couple weeks
prior to him. And you get the basis of his story, mine, and some of the things we discussed and
talked about. And Sammy was very powerful underboss in the Gambino family, very powerful guy in the
street. And he was betrayed. And during, you know, the problem with the street and the street world
is people that don't really understand it, and they watch some TV or they listen to these shows,
they think they really understand what you sign up for and how treacherous it is. And they really
don't get it. But if you sat at a table with us, or you came in a room like this and you sat with
us, that opinion that everybody spools out so easily on a computer would be slid back about
30 steps. They wouldn't be speaking like that. So, you know, the guys that do understand the
life and understand the treachery, it's Machiavelli times 20, if you know what Machiavelli is, if
you ever read, and it's a treacherous life. And the reason why we're out here doing this stuff,
obviously, some of the things I do, magazines, movies, series, TV series, you do get paid for,
but the drive for me to do this or any of the things I do at schools are out of trying to help
kids, and it's not for money, it's not monetary. I don't get paid for it, and then I'm not trying
to get paid for it. So, it's just for kids to help save somebody's life.
That's strong of you, man. I mean, I appreciate you doing that. I appreciate you taking your time
to share these stories. I mean, what kind of lesson, like if you could go talk to yourself back then,
if you could say something to yourself back when you were 18 years old, like what was one of the
big, what's the biggest lesson that you learned from that whole experience, from when you first
started drug dealing and shooting people and all your time in prison? What's been your biggest lesson?
Well, my biggest lesson is if I can wake up again and be 14 years old and innocent, I'd be saying
to myself, what the fuck are you thinking? Because when I wake up and most kids are going to the
beach, I was going to train, I was going to run, I was going to do push-ups and work out to play
baseball. I was a big ball player, baseball player boxer, but I took all those training tips and it
became a violent guy, batting guys, taking guys' heads off, stabbing guys. And really, I'd have
to say exactly what I just said and I'll repeat it. What the fuck am I thinking? Why am I out there
not enjoying life? And that's the message really when you're talking to kids is there's so many
good things you can do with yourself. Go to the beach. Life's beautiful. Travel. Go country to
country like I did, but don't do it the way I did. You need money to do all that, right?
Well, not necessarily. I mean, there's kids all that go, especially in European kids,
they go abroad and they go from hostel to hostel, they go with a group of kids. You save a couple
bucks, you go by train, you hike, you walk, you take buses. You can do it on a cheap route,
but you go experience the world. That's the difference. And I mean, listen, you can always,
you know, there's kids at young kids, you know, deliver newspapers, go hustle around legitimate,
be away to be a busboy, you know, work in stores, you know, work on trucks, whatever.
You don't need a hundred grand to go travel Europe. You can get cheap tickets and go live life.
But the idea is the more you experience life, the more you experience different countries,
you understand the world a little better, and maybe you wouldn't risk your life so easily,
like a lot of us do. And, you know, you get a lot of the inner city kids that I speak up for
that, you know, you talk about Oprah Winfrey will use for an example. And the inner city kids,
you're out in Africa and I feel bad for what goes on in Africa. But if she wants to donate money,
what's wrong with our kids here in the United States donated here, help the kids here,
help the school system, and help everybody get in the right direction. There's a lot of famous
people out there that do the right thing and she is one of them. But I think it needs to start here
in our country where there's so many kids that need a helping hand. And I think that's where it
should start, not outside the country. Can you kind of give me the gist or give me the back story
of what the relationship was between you and John Gotti Jr.? Well, you know, I was a guy that was
put in a position to, you know, take care of him, protect him. And we had fallen outs over the years.
His father was in a position where they like him as a boss or not became a boss. And although I
disagreed on his leadership in a lot of ways, he was a gangster. The son, on the other hand, was
what I call spoiled brat. Guys make fun of him, call him Dypedon now and different things because
of what he does with the media. As far as, you know, social media I'm talking about, he doesn't
get on. They just made a movie about him, right? They did a movie. They made a movie about his
father tanked about his father. Okay, with John Travolta. John Travolta was a disaster of a film.
They say it was the worst film ever in the history of mobs. Really? But again, because the son tried
to hold and control the what was, you know, being written and how was being written. And, you know,
he destroyed whatever they were trying to do with the movie by trying to control it. So this is the
problem with him. He's doesn't do anything where he comes out and a positive manner tries to help
some kids, doesn't come out and be truthful. You know, we have to, just what I did, I had to catch
him as an informant. And there's no excuse, listen, you're an informant. There's no way to back out
of that. You're a queen of the day. There's no way to say I only read it a little bit or, you know,
these ridiculous comments. And I hate to always go into it about him because he's nothing to me.
In my country, in Albanian, there's a terminology for a barking dog. You know, you ever see these
little dogs like a little chihuahua when they don't stop stop yapping and barking. And, you know,
we say just keep walking and keep walking past them. That dog's going to be barking forever.
Right.
So, you know, he's a barker. He's a guy that, you know, never did no work. You know, he wasn't
violent in the street. The guys like me did that stuff. And he's on a poor me syndrome. Nobody
wants to hear that. You know, stand on your own two feet. Say, listen, I lived a life I shouldn't
have. We dealt drugs. Yeah, maybe I didn't, by my own hand, go out and hurt all these guys. But
guys like me did and, you know, do something positive with kids. Stop whining and crying.
Stop blaming your father for putting you in this life. And then you try to, you know,
make money off your father's legacy or whatever. You whether you agree with the lifestyle of his
father or how he led, which, you know, I'm not a big advocate as him as a leader. But
the father was of him or his or his dad, the father's leadership. Right. I mean, the son,
I don't even really, I don't like talking about him anymore. No. There's really not much to say
or something left to say. Do you think that you guys will ever mend the relationship? I mean,
we got, you guys were pretty good friends at one point, right? I don't know if we were friends.
I know the media said we were friends. I mean, I said, you know, at times, yeah, we were friends.
But, you know, I worked with them. It was a working relationship. And, you know, I, when,
depends on how I feel that day, I say a baby said, you know, he's just a spoiled guy, you know,
until he faces the truth about himself, that he was spoiled, that he was kind of a bratty kid,
food sped, you know, fed and spoon fed. And, you know, I'm not going to have too many good
things to say about him until he steps up, you know, he becomes a man and does the right thing
with kids and, you know, stops bullshitting everybody and, you know, just say, hey, listen,
if there's a way to change that you were queen of the day, I just want to know about it. But
there really is no way to change that. You were queen of the day. Well, I was in penitentiaries
and other guys and you started talking, giving us up. We don't know exactly how many times you met
and we don't know if it's for years, but you're an informant. And there's no way of changing that.
You took yourself in and met with the government and you're trying to spin it somehow. And there's
no street guy, not one, that will say anything different, but that he was an informant and
cooperate or rat or any dumb word that he uses. So the term queen of the day is basically a rat
or a snitch. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing. Yeah, well, I've never heard that one before. Yeah, it's,
well, you're not a gangster. So that's true. Good observation. So if you're in the street,
we all know what it is. There's no excuse for it. You made it an appointment to meet the government.
You're queen of the day, you're a rat snitch, whatever informant. So guys like, and that's the
thing, he's trying to sell something to guys like you that don't know what all this is.
So gangsters know what it is and street guys or criminals. And so, you know, there is no change.
And the problem is with most kids, younger kids, when they get on the street, they don't understand
informants. They don't understand what they're staying with 10 kids. They'll think that somebody's
never, you know, he's a stand up guy or by the street mentality stand up guy and he's not going
to talk to the police. But then there's three cause of the guys are going into the police and
they're giving information and people don't know it. And as yeah, because you yeah, I mean, it seems
like one of like the the number one rule when it comes to any kind of any kind of street business
or or anything, the number one rule is you never snitch, you never flip, right? Because that's,
that's your dignity. That's, that's everything, right? That's what you're judged on. That's the
number one thing you're judged on. So no one, if you want to, if you want to make it and organize
crime or if you want to be in the mob, if you flip, you're dead, you're a dead man, right?
Yeah, I mean, listen, by simple ways, the way you're saying it, the belief on the street is that
that's just my perspective. Yeah, I mean, listen, that's the problem is it's most kids perspective
and they don't understand the street. So when they're on the street and your partners with a guy
and he's stealing half the money, or he's not giving you the fair share. So there's where it
starts, right? He starts taking a little extra and he doesn't tell you and your partners with him.
So that's one problem. Okay, who goes on the street greed. Second problem is guys start stealing
each other's girlfriends and women when they're not around. So that's the second part. There's
them second part, no loyalty. Third part is when something dangerous goes on, and it's going to
be you going to get shot or he's going to get shot, you're going to run and let him get shot.
Fourth part is guys are going to as soon as they run into a little problem with a
their girlfriend or boyfriend or mother or father may be involved with them,
they're going to sell you out to protect them. So there is no real code of honor like everybody
thinks it's garbage. And you know, the telltale for everything, read them, I don't care what religion
you are, read the Quran, read the Bible, read whatever. If you're Buddhist, money is evil,
right? And this is what the problem is money is controlling the streets. And as long as money
controls the streets, the loyalty isn't to your friend or to your partner or to the organization,
it's to the dollar bill. And instead of following a path where you can make a dollar bill the right
way, everybody's trying to take a shortcut. And at the same time, they're selling each other out,
left and right. And it's not something I'm talking about. And somebody says, Oh, he's full of shit,
just go look at history, go follow religion and watch all the murders that go on through history,
follow the wars, follow the Roman Empire, and see what everything's about. Watch a movie like The
Brave Heart and see what it's about being taxed and taking money from the poor. And then it's also
about what somebody that has no money to inner city kids and when they get jammed up or locked up,
watch how many years they get compared to some rich kid that's got the money like God, he did
to deceive and lie in and form and weasel his way out and pay his way. So it's not structured
fairly. And the world's not fair. So if you want to level the ground in a fair way, go to work the
right way, and you don't have to worry about all those things they just spoke about. And take the
right path, because easy to take the wrong path. I mean, listen, I took the wrong path my whole
life. I've been stabbed up, I've been shot, I've been batted, I spent 18 years in prisons, I spent
probably a good last 10 years of my life in prisons without a yard. I didn't see a yard. I was locked
up 23 hours a day at 24. I shower three, four days a week at best. And I spent probably seven years
in solitary confinement. So when people say, you know, fuck you, they don't want to hear what you
got to say. Listen, I can't make everybody listen, but I hope the people that are suffering a little
bit or people have jammed up with cases or people thinking about going that way. Take a second
stance and say, you know, I don't want to end up in these prisons. I don't want to be shot in the
head because, you know, I can maneuver guys all over. That's what I did for a living. I get friendly
with you. And after I get friendly with you, you think you're involved with us and I shoot you in
your head. So it's done just as easy as that. And if I know you had $300,000 in your house, well,
there's your life was worth to me 300,000. Your life's finished. So if you think there's a code
between guys and this guy's a lot more vicious than I am. So that's the reality of the street.
Holy shit. It's not all my stories. You can go listen to podcasts, podcasts, mob,
different mob, true life stories of different mobs that are talking when they go to jail and,
you know, their partners are rich and they're sitting in jail doing a time for another guy,
that other guy that's out there making money. He's not helping his family like he promised.
He's not doing anything. He's not visiting him in prison. He's not stepping up and doing anything to
help that guy get through a time. And you're going to hear these stories. You're going to
guys sleeping with guys' wives and girlfriends. These are regular stories. These are, you know,
this is not something that we don't know, that we don't, you know, think, wow, that's a big surprise
that happened to the guy. And every time I hear another guy telling the story, I'm going to say,
well, this is exactly what we already know about, you know. So I'm a guy that's been in prisons
and I've been international. I have friends in every country. You name a country and I'll tell
you, I could get you in touch with somebody in that country. So, you know, I'm not just some
neighborhood gangster, you know, I was a guy that traveled. I just came back from traveling four
countries. I probably, since I've been home, went to about 25, 30 countries. So I know the world.
I know people everywhere, every country. So how did you transition from New York and Florida
to going overseas? What were you doing overseas? Well, you know, since I'm a kid, you know, I had
friends in different positions, different mob families outside of the Gambino and the Italian
mafia. So I had organizations that were friends with me from the Columbia, which I was doing
business in the cocaine business. I have a friend of mine, Klaus, that did business with me since
the early nineties and with marijuana from California, from Denmark. So we're still good
friends. I got friends that were the bosses and in families where I ran things in the UK,
like the Sabines, that I'm still friends with. So I can go through my Albanian culture. I'm Albanian.
We're a very rough, hands-on kind of culture, very violent. We come from, you know, a suppressed
country from the Ottoman days till Turkey taking us over to communism. So, you know, I have friends
in Albania and guys that weren't business with me for years at a back in that country, Italy.
So I can go on with country to country, Germany, Switzerland. So, you know, these are all partners
and friends of mine over the years that were in all these countries. So I traveled those countries.
I had hooks in those countries. Canada, I have hooks in those countries. And we did business,
whether it was through money, whether it was through drugs, whether it was through sports,
whether it was helping each other. If a friend of mine had a problem in the UK, which he did,
and somebody came to the United States, he asked me to go hurt him from my did. So we reached
a lot further than, you know, a typical, you know, a lot of these mob guys never leave the
neighborhood of Queens, Brooklyn, Staten Island, Manhattan, wherever. And I had the ability,
because of some of the contacts I have around the world, to have the ability to do what I want.
And I also did it in a good way. I have the ability to go visit those countries and hang out,
drink and have some fun. So I choose my life a little different now. Have some fun, drink and
talking about, you know, different things in those countries. And I'm doing shows and magazines about
prison in Brazil. And some of the guys that were in prison with me in Brazil are from the UK.
They just did a show with me in the UK. And they talked about exactly how dangerous the jails were
there and how they survived through me in those prisons and the prisons in Brazil. Yeah, it was
and I was in three different penitentiaries in Brazil, three different prisons in Brazil. Yeah.
What was that like? Like, can you give me just one specific story about a Brazil prison experience?
So, you know, when guys say to them, you know, you watch movies at concentration camps, yeah,
you watch movies in the army, and it's no different than that. We were in a Brazilian
penitentiary. And when they come crashing through those doors during the riots, and they come in
with ski masks, and I'm talking about military police, police, SWAT teams in those countries,
they'll strip us down. We're all naked, guns to our heads. You know, you beat up a little bit,
you pistol whipped a little bit, depending if you're the wrong inmate and the wrong cop.
But guys are getting beat up all over. The guys are getting raped within the jails from the gods.
And we're brought into some occasions, we're brought into a dock like a gymnasium, but there's no
lights. And it's probably 120 degrees in there, 115 degrees. And some of these guys that were with
me in the UK, I start to come out and speaking because they didn't like what God, he tried to
project about the prisons that we were in. And he tried to underplay how many killings were in
these jails. And I'm talking about dozens of them. Why would he try to do that? I don't know. I
guess you're gonna have to ask him that if you ever do an interview with anybody. And you know,
these things like we're doing here, they're not, you know this, obviously, you can ask any question
you want. I don't prearrange them. I talk just from the heart, I talk out of experience. He's not
able to do that because he lied so often. And he talks out of school and he doesn't realize
there's guys all over the world that were in those prisons with us, that we all stay in touch
with each other. We just had a reunion. You were the guys like the, you were like the feet on the
ground guys, you guys were in the trenches together. And you know, you got guys from Turkey
that were with us Spain that were with us Denmark that was with us, a couple of Italian guys from
Italy that were with us. So when someone talks like he does, and he tries to bullshit the public
a little bit, these guys just came out of the woodwork. And we're looking into some shows now on
the Brazilian penitentiaries that we were in some of the riots, some of the things that I just spoke
about the rapes and inmate being hung and accused of committing a crime. He didn't, he didn't commit.
So excuse me. You can, if you need to answer, you can answer. No, I don't need. Okay. So you have
guys coming out of woodwork and they weren't happy with some of the things that were said.
And they wanted to set the record straight. At the same time, they're starting to do podcast
shows about their experience in these prisons, how they survived them, how they credited me for
some of the violence I committed in those prisons to save them and some of the stabbings I did.
And some of the killings they witnessed, some of the rapes they witnessed,
and the conditions of rats all over the sense and poison and mosquitoes like crazy. Some of the
people they seen die because we are so below in a, in a cage that was like, I guess, like,
like the old days torture chambers, almost of the castles that you see in the movies.
You really can't understand because these, these prisons like state senator from Brazil said he
wouldn't want to spend the day there. He'd rather die first. So these are documented, well documented,
the torture was well documented and the murders after it from prisons, after guys were getting
killed in torture, they were sending guys out from the street to kill those same gods that
were tortured and raping. So the guards and the police officers started wearing masks, black
ski masks so people don't know their face, but some of the organizations in Brazil that were
very violent on the street started ringing their doorbells when they answered them,
they were shooting them in the head to try to get even for what they were doing in the prison
system. I mean, this is all CNN documented stuff. And I was in some of the prisons they talk about
and some of the guys that we meet with, we're discussing obviously a TV series about it. And
these guys from these countries saw some of the things obviously were involved and what I was
involved in. And I got off course, when we were in those rooms, it was probably 500 guys,
600 guys in a caged in room, nowhere to shit nowhere to piss and would be we all of us as
selectively would select one place in the corner, no toilet paper, no shirts because we're naked.
And we're brought in there, like I said, like a concentration camp, and we, you know, you're
stepping in walking on piss and shit, but we try to limit it to one corner, because we're there from
some mornings when they do these these attacks on the inmates, we're there from six in the morning
say till 10 at night, there's nowhere to sit nowhere, you're standing and you're suffering and
guys are passing out and guys, you know, some guys in some occasions were dying from the air quality
couldn't breathe. And I mean, these are no secrets to the international world of what went on in
some of these gels or what you're in. And it's no secret because it was documented in TV shows
with CNN and news associated press across the world. And some of these guys got in touch with me,
thank you to God, I got to say thank you to God for that, because they didn't know how to get in
touch with me. And when we were in the media, they seen it, they reached out and got a hold of
some of them got a hold of my daughter and said, we need to speak to your father, he saved our life
in prison. And she said to me, dad, do you know who Justin is? And do you know who always? And
she started giving me names and I said, yeah, why? And she said, I didn't know if it was real or not,
they reached out to me on Facebook and said, your dad saved our life and we want to talk to him.
So this is some of some of the guys and we're very you know, we, we never forget each other
because we went through hell with each other. And we had a certain bond and that one of our
reunions was just last week in the UK. And we discussed with a guy that was played Captain
America actually in the UK for Britcio Santini. And we talked to him about maybe get involved
in a project with us and and my life story and some of the things that we're thinking about doing. So
you know, out of things that are bad, sometimes things, a lot of positive, positive. I mean,
you got to make it positive. And really, that's the bottom line. I really don't care for Gotti
too much is because he's a guy that wants to sit and shit, right? He doesn't want to
turn things around and do something positive. And if he started talking well and talking to
children and talking to kids about not being in the life maybe or not being in the street,
you can sell your own bullshit store or you want. I mean, we can't change who we were and what we did.
That's not going to change, obviously. So we got to live with that. But let's sell something
different to the kids now. You know, kids that are suffering or, you know, there's kids that I
know, real tough street kids that talk to me, send me messages, they're involved in the street.
And I try to talk them out of street. They laugh. That's hard to do, right?
You know what? Because maybe they're not ready. Some of them are. I mean, I got,
I get dozens of letters out of prisons all the time, guys, you know, you know,
giving a command to me for what I do. And there's guys that are in prisons that are never going
to change, but say, you know, tell me, keep doing your thing. So, you know, there's a lot of positive
guys out there in the prison system that believe in what I'm doing. And I guess the negative
people are always going to be negative. I can't change that. It's a different breed of person.
Someone who has kind of been handed everything they have, they'd never really had to suffer for it
or really work for it. You know, it's just a something that you can't really teach. It's
they're just different. You know what I mean? There's a different breed. When you, when you've
had to go through hell and you've had to earn everything that you have, there's a disconnect
there between someone else who's just been given everything. I'm not saying that you guys are,
he's that or you're the opposite. I'm just saying it's. Listen, I can tell you this.
At my age and growing up in jails, the way I did, I was a young kid the first time I went,
I met some tough, tough guys in prison. So when guys think they're tough out in the street,
you can think you're tough all you want. When you get into all these prisons, there's so many
tough guys in there. There's so many dangerous guys in there. So many killers in there. You know,
there's the you're nothing in there just like anybody else. You're just another number. You're
another guy trying to get through the day. And the reality of the real tough guys in prison,
the real street guys in prison, the guys that say to themselves, I don't want to see my kid ever
spend a day here because we understand what it is. So the guys that say anything different than
that, you let me know who he is. When you see some jackoff and on the internet and they're writing
some dumb shit about the code, I want to tell that fucking guy that's writing about the code.
First of all, if you never live, you live, you never live the code. You don't have no idea what
our life's about because they're definitely going to be comments on this talking shit. You always
get dummies at all. You can't stop that. Yeah. People like people that hate their lives. They
just want us. Well, they want 10 seconds of attention. So you can give it to them. But
if they want that attention like that, well, go join, jump in, get to jail. And we're going to
see how tough you are and see if you're talking. They don't have the nuts to do that. But what I
was getting at is these inmates that are in jail and there's thousands and thousands right across
the country, every country, you're not going to find one that's going to send a message out different
that to their own children. They don't want their kids live in this life. So, you know,
if we could all talk to kids and guys and I'm talking about inmates that are on death row,
inmates that are in supermax jails. If you ask any of them, there's none of them are going to say,
oh, this is a great life. I want my kid in the street. Right. So, you know, we did what we did.
They did what they did. I'm in a position whether somebody likes me or dislikes me. I can't change
that. And when someone says, well, this guy hurt so many guys, oh, he's full of shit. He didn't
hurt that many. I really don't give a fuck. You know, so these are guys that are, you know,
bullshit bitch guys that talk like this. And, you know, they're not tough guys and not men. And
when they're talking like this, well, I want to tell that same big mouth that says something
different or the code, go put your fucking kid on the street. If that's what you believe tough guy,
go put it, but I'm going to tell you something else. And eat a real tough guys, because there's a
lot on the street and in jail, they're not going to be writing on your computer about it in the
show. Hell no. This is just Jericho. I've said talk like that. Yeah, that's true. That's a fact.
Now you said how much time did you do in solitary? I probably did. I never count the day for day,
but I've done probably about seven years in solitary confinement. I didn't see a yard. Not,
not continuous. That was just, I was in and out of them, but, but I'll tell you what, I was in
Brazil penitentiary for two and a half years. I'd seen a yard once a month naked in the underwear
at best. No shoes, not that I'm rocks. And it's not a yard. Like you see a yard. I'm not talking
about a yard. I'm talking about high security gun patrols. They're up in the towers, dogs all over
you. And it's, I guess the size of a basketball court at best. I got that once a month. Otherwise,
I was caged in. I never left the cells. I was in cells with 54 guys that fit 12 guys, sometimes
higher than that in the sixties. It rained inside the cells. They had water that went up to our
knees at points during the storms. There was blackouts, complete no lights. So, you know,
that was the conditions. When I came to Florida, I was out on the tears for a while, but you're on
tears that you don't go out to a yard. You go to another cage. Tears? Tears are double level
tears in Florida prisons. And you don't really leave that, that pod. Then I went into solitary cells
for a couple years. And then I was in MCC, forced into a unit where there's nine cells on the floor
and you're not leaving those cells. And you're stuck there 23, 24 hours and you go up on a basketball
court at night for about an hour, three days a week. So I never seen an actual yard. So that
was 10 years of that. Prior to that, I was in and out of solitary confinement for fights,
six months at a time, eight months. I did about a year straight at another time.
So yeah, I spent my fair share of time in solitary confinement. And listen, I'm no different
because you hear guys complaining about it. But when you're high profile inmate, which I was,
I was chased down by Interpol in every country. And when you're killing guys and hurting guys,
I'm no different than a lot of these guys. We're all going to the same thing. So what I'm saying is
it's not a life to live like a dog in a cage and the showering and with a camera watching you.
And you know, you're on these secure cells. So there's cameras in the room, you take a shit,
they're watching you. You feel horny that day and you want to jerk off, they're watching you. So
this is the life that you chose to lead. So when a guy talks at a school and you're going to get
dummies that talk like that all the time, they have no idea about how I lived and a lot of inmates
just like me. It's not I'm poor me. Only I did that. It happens to all of us. We all go on
diesel therapy, meaning they ship you from, they used to book me into my cell here in Florida,
right? This is when they brought me back. Diesel therapy? Diesel therapy is what they would do
to me. They bring me to a jail on Wednesday. I wait all day and get checked in through booking.
So you're on a floor about eight hours waiting and fingerprinted and chained up and they bring
you to a holding cell and they bring you to your solitary confinement cell. You get in there on
Wednesday night and you can't order commissary because you just came in. By Sunday, instead of
letting me order because they come around with the commissary lists and I could fill them out,
I'm moving again. They're going to ship me to another jail and we're going to do it all over
again. And when they ship me in and this is constant for me for a good year and I didn't see no
commissary, I didn't see no books, I didn't have no radio. So when guys talk about how the life
is and how they can talk, they have no clue. They're clueless because they didn't go through all
this. And I'm not the only guy. I'm one of the guys of high security inmates that are known to be
dangerous were moved around with belly chains and chains on our legs, on our feet, on our hands,
with black box where you can't move also when possibly get out of those handcuffs. This is
typical treatment of any of us that are in those positions. So when someone says they're the only
ones, that's bullshit too. Maybe the averaging may don't go through this, but we do. So these are
the things that you're trying to tell and there's some serious killers in prisons now that write me
and stay in touch with me on a regular basis and they're never getting out. And these guys are
saying to me, brother, keep doing what you're doing. Save some kids. Because only hate is
don't want to see this. When people are jealous or people hate another man's life,
they want to see that person suffer. So I see you doing good. Should I bring you down or should
I pick you up? So I choose to pick you up. Yeah. I've done a lot of people who like to talk down
and shove you in the dirt and tell you you're nothing. Well, I don't know if you're a fighter.
Do you fight? Do you get into fights? No, I don't get into fights. I used to do, I've done like
jujitsu and that kind of shit, but I've never been. I've been in like two street fights in high
school. Well, I'm going to tell you, did you get paid for those two street fights? Hell no.
So why would you want to fight? Exactly. And you're going to tell me that you can beat everybody
up in the street? Of course not. Can I? Of course not. These guys out there every day could beat
up the next guy. I use Mike Tyson as an example. Toughest guy around and there's idiots that get
drunk that want to fight him. So, you know, and same with him, he lost plenty of fights. The idea
of fighting the street, what does he get? He says, you're going to run it to a Jericho if
that you're drunk or high and he wants to fight you. Walk away, let him fight somebody else.
Eventually he'll run it to the guy that he wants, that he'll get where he wants. He's going to beat
him up. Right. But if you're not getting paid for it, why you bother doing it? Right. So,
you know, and jujitsu and the things you're in, those are positive reinforcements. They learn
to teach you to respect the sport, not disrespect the sport. And the idea of me telling you,
do you fight? I respect you the same way if you never got into a fistfight in your life.
That's not a judgment of being a man or not. Judgment of being a man is being gentlemen,
go to work, do the right thing and pass a positive message, right? Right. You know,
it's easy to pass a bullshit message. I can soup up and, you know, I probably got one of the strongest
guys in, as far as having a following in every country, I can soup guys up all over and have
guys using guns and shooting people for me. I could, if I felt like taking Gotti tomorrow, it's
that easy. And if somebody says anything different, then they don't know what the fuck they're talking
about. And in just in my culture, guys will do anything I want when I want. I don't live that
life anymore. So, you know, my message isn't about Gotti or guys like Gotti. My message is for those
guys that are prisons, the inner city kids or the tough guys in those prisons that are sending
their messages out to me, John, keep doing what you're doing, save some kids' lives. Because
our lives were ruined. Let's help these kids not ruin this. Right. You know, you talk about Gotti,
and I think I said this earlier, you hit on Gotti before, you know, before we wrap it up,
is, you know, some of his family members are really guys that their family suffered. And,
you know, and I've talked about. Gotti, you're talking about Gotti's family members? Yeah,
some of them, also in the life and jails and some of their kids and some of the things that went on,
I want to see him tell somebody this was a good life. You know, I want to see him say, you know,
oh, I want my son in this life. Right. Because there's nobody's going to say this. So, if you
could find me one, I'd love to get on the air with you with him. I'll come and sit down. Someone
who's proud of that life. What dummy wants their kid in that life. Right. Call your father, call
each kid, and there's kids out there that don't have parents that aren't able to anybody to tell
them this. But those kids that don't have parents, there's no excuse to be in the street. I used
it as an excuse. There's no, I have parents, but, you know, none of us come from a perfect life.
And my parents weren't the greatest parents in the world. Nobody's parents are perfect.
And we're not perfect. But to push somebody in the street, you got to be a real scumbag. So,
I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing. I'm not pushing no kid that way. I'll push him this way.
And hopefully I can reach some and some adults too. And, you know, people will ask you, well,
he's talking about this gangster. I know a lot of gangsters. No one's ever going to say,
you're not going to hit me denied. And I'm not friends with a lot of gangsters.
Right. But I'm not choosing their path for them. They could choose their own.
You know, if that's what they choose, unfortunately, I think eventually they're
going to suffer the path they're taking, right? But I'm not going to choose. I mean,
their friends, when we joke around and, you know, I use the word, I'm retired, right? That's my word.
You're retired. So I'm retired. You look like you still put a beaten on somebody.
You know, listen, I work out every day, push-ups in the gym, I box still. I'm still playing around
with bags and all that. But, you know, it's in a positive way again. You're getting a ring,
you play around with guys, and you know, if you were in a ring and you're sparring,
without the attitude of the street, the street is, like I said, listen, I'm involved in a fight
business. I'm friends with a lot of professional fighters. And, you know, we joke about it all
the time because there's guys out in the street have no idea some of these guys are,
and they want to fight them. So, you know, they say the same thing I'm saying,
you want to fight, you can fight all day, go to gyms every day, you can find a million guys
to fight. You're not insecure, go to a gym. Right. You know, so. But that, you know, my message
is that, and hopefully, you know, some of the things I'm doing now is going to be the magazines
and the shows and the TV series. They're all coming now. So this year is going to be a great
year. I got a new book coming out. Yeah. Tell me about your book. What's, what's it called?
Dark as hour two. It's coming out with Susan Pike as my writer. I did Dark as hour one. It was about
when I was a child to 17. Prior to that, I got these rules with Georgia Anastasia. And I have a
handbook out called Prison Rules. The do's and don'ts so you don't find yourself in prison.
And the situation for adults, young kids and for parents that need to try to reach their
children, maybe they, you know, and that's that's a book. People that are in prison, they can get
their hands on. Yeah, all these books are, you know, through the internet, through Amazon, through,
through bonds and Noble and Dark as hour two should be out by February. And that'll be more of
hardcore mafia stuff and some of the killings and shootings and things that went on to prison
systems. So that that their book would, I think, will be a little more to the point.
Can you tell me, like, what did you have to do? Like, how did you get out of prison so quick?
Did you have, like, good behavior? Was there, I mean? It might have been quick for you, but it
wasn't quick for me. I mean, listen, when you're in jail. Well, all right, obviously. But I mean,
what I meant by that was like, you did about 18 years total, right? Yeah, I did. And you were
originally sentenced to 30? Well, you know, I was facing 30 when I came back. And I sat down with
the government after I had the paperwork on Gotti and some of the other guys. You know,
54 guys went and testified against me in a grand jury. So, you know, holy shit.
So it wasn't one or two. And then on some other shows, I mean, if somebody's interested,
they can look what I said. And I named boss after boss that would testify and give
in information. So these guys tried to, these guys betrayed you? Yeah, they ain't switching
this around. They betrayed me. I didn't betray them. By their set of rules, they all ratted.
Later on, I come in and and I said, that's it, after I went through each boss and each captain
and they're making statements all of them against me. And so, you know, when I'll get
into all that crap, people can look at my books and read or watch somebody or the interviews
and they can see it. But this is the typical what I said about the treachery of life. I was
betrayed. I never betrayed anybody. Gotti betrayed me. I was in a penitentiary. Even though he was
my enemy at that time, he's still betraying what we believed was the life of a good soldier,
a mobster. But that's that's the reality of what happens. But I did on this case back that it's
30 years is Brazil extradition law. When you come back, I'm facing to do 25 years. When I did two
and a half years in Brazil, I was supposed to get nine years credit because of the conditions there.
Right. So if you give me the nine years that they're supposed to give me, and I supposed to do 25,
I supposed to do 16 more out of that 16, I took a 12 year sentence, I got it down to 10. So I did
a lot of time for what I did actually on, you know, laws because these guys, people don't
understand that take please on murdering at four or five years or six years. Don't cooperate. Some
of them do and they get less. But you know, when you when they're in a position and whatever the
situation that cases, I know bosses got 10 years on, they went on a run, they caught them, they had
two separate trials, and they still only got 10 years without cooperation. Because of the situation
that depends on that have weapons. So we'll get into one last thing before I leave. I never been
caught with any kind of crime, nothing on this case. On the case that I was facing life and I
went on a run and I had the extradition of 30 years. So you know, it's only from what the
Goddys or somebody will say rats, it was informants, it was only testimony. It wasn't me selling a drug
and someone caught me. It wasn't me getting caught with kilos. It wasn't me on an audio tape or
videotape. It wasn't me at a shooting or at a killing. It wasn't me getting caught with a used
weapon. It wasn't me anywhere. So when people use the excuse of, well, it was all rats against me
and everybody's a rat, rat, rat, rat. And they talk that they're usually a rat like God, he was.
Nobody knocked on my door and said, oh, we're going to arrest you for all these crimes because
we don't like you. Listen, I'm a criminal. It was people trying to save their own fucking ass.
Yeah. And mostly, you know, the mob guys that testified against me and gave information on
the sneak against me and were informants. But listen, I'm okay with it. My life's not at that
point anymore. I don't give a fuck what they did. I don't really give a fuck what God did.
Wash your hands.
But don't change the storyline. The storyline is you guys rat it, betrayed me. I left this country,
left my children, left my family, stood in those concentration camps, not to talk against my enemies,
all my friends, you all betrayed me and came home and that changed. So when someone says,
who betrayed who, I didn't betray anybody by those rules. But those rules and that life's gone for
me. But we'll keep that record straight that I never got caught. So this paperwork, they can go
check. I never been caught with a crime. So I wasn't a talker. And these shows now, my life's
different. So I can go on here and talk and be honest on exactly what happened. But I've never
been caught with a crime. The ones I got caught prior to that would have gone, I did my three and
a half years, I did my year, I did my whatever time I did on other assaults and I went to jails from
this case here, Rico indictment for a life sentence. And I ran and I went to 20 countries when they
caught me. It was only from informant after format mob guy after mob guy, may guy after may guy,
boss of different families, all given information against me, not the other way around. So somewhere
in this public, they switched that around. And they thought that a this guy was given now,
I left this country, I spent millions of dollars to fight and left my children,
fight with lawyers, attorneys, investigators, I lost my family over this. So when people say I
betrayed something, they better do a little more research and find out who betrayed who. And there's
nothing public information can get court documents if I have ever been caught with any kind of crime,
Wow. That's heavy, man. Dude, thank you. So I can't thank you enough for coming on here and
sharing your story. Yeah, I appreciate it. If you will push that message to kids and outside
this podcast and keep doing the right thing. Cool. Well, Muta Pop Sheen. And thank you so much for
coming on the podcast. It's been awesome.
