So I met with him and and this is what was interesting how he got me because manual like I say he was very educated man
He was a businessman, you know, so the first thing he asked me says look
I want to open up banana import company and I need you to do a feasibility study for me
Had he come in there and said look here's $30,000
Build me a banana company. Then I'm like nah shit sounds wrong with it
But you know you do feasibility study and that's how a business is supposed to do right, right?
So I did the feasibility study and they could make a lot of money
Little did I know that what they wanted to do with the bananas was just bring drugs, right?
So this group
So I said look I don't work for anybody
For me to abandon because well we want you to be the president
I said look for me to abandon my accounting practice
I gotta get paid six seven thousand dollars a month and not gonna be equal partners because I'm gonna put up my naming and
Sacrifice my whole career for a business that you got my walk away one day, right?
And they're like fine
So here I'm 20 years old I'm partners with these guys in this benign company called kiss
So we went out I went all over Europe to find this boat that to bring the bananas from Columbia and
Ended up finding one in Sacramento, California. You had no clue. No freaking clue man at all
I'm like, okay, you know what they they deal drugs, but they're they're big legitimate business
They have a lot of stuff going on
So as long as I don't do anything wrong, there was no money laundering laws, none of that
DA our drugs are cooking was not in the DA radar
So it was not like a big deal. The whole deal with drugs was Heron and marijuana at that time. So
He's like so we find the ship we buy and we're gonna convert to refrigeration
So I go out there to oversee the whole conversion for about three months
And while I'm out there the guy that's doing the refrigeration as a younger guy a couple years older than me
and I used to play baseball a lot I was gonna be a man
I want to be a major league baseball player and
He has softball team and I'm there by myself in Stockton, California, right living in the ship, right? Yeah
So and the guy's name was Mel
So he's like I go over to his house and we have barbecue and then you know
We I joined his team and then he kept kidding me. He said, you know that boat is ready to bring in cocaine
I like Mel you're full of shit, man
You think I'm gonna put my name on a boat that's gonna bring in drugs. You're crazy. No, no, no, man
It is you need to hook me up hook me up
And I'm laughing at him right but bugging the hell out of me. Yeah
During this period this group
Started saying to me
After I set everything up and we had everything just going perfect. We had the box up
We had the ship registered in Grand Cayman
I mean everything was perfectly over and we had office and we have warehouses this year's everything
They're like, you know, you can make so much money. Oh because I went and I said to him
You know the guy that's doing for a direction keeps bugging me telling me that this is a cocaine boy boat and this and I'm like
I thought he's an idiot. How am I gonna put my name out there, right?
Didn't say nothing at that time, but later on they start saying, you know, you can make a lot of money representing us in the United States
And I'm like, what do you mean representing? He says I do I said I'm partners with you in this shipping company
And they're like no no in all of our businesses now. I knew that we're talking about the drugs, right?
Right, so I'm like look. I'm not interested man, you know, I just want to get this going
It's a great business. We're gonna make a lot of money and we were gonna make a lot of money, right?
Because they grew their own bananas
But they kept at it kept at it and one day I
Got this genius idea and I'm like, okay. I know how to get rid of Mel
I'm gonna try to find out what cocaine goes for Miami at that time was going for 40 to 2 to 44
And and I'm gonna give him a crazy price
And then he's just gonna leave me alone. I said next time when he come and ask me
I'm gonna say look we are man. We're drug dealers now, but
You know, you want by some it's 72,000 miles a kilo
Yeah, he's like, oh man, that's how I say yeah, I know
It's coming. It's right off the tree. I didn't mean to come so I'm sure what the hell it comes
I couldn't tell I couldn't tell cocaine from freaking cotton, you know from sugar. Yeah, and he's like, oh, man
Well, I'll talk to my partners
So yeah, you do that. I'm like went to bed happy next day. I leave for Columbia
And I'm like, why don't I do the same thing with the Colombian? Why don't I tell him? I'll handle everything for you, but I
Gotta be cool partners and I got no money to put up you guys got put up now at that time
You had you buy a kilo cocaine for $22,000, right?
So they're bringing in 300 kilos, right 200 kilo when we started which was 4.4 million dollars
It was for them. I said I'll be the fifth. So you figure five five people divided by 4.4
It's about 810,000 dollars a piece. That's how I get 800. I didn't know how much money exists in the world
So he's like so I said, that's what I thought I said and I'm gonna say look
I'll handle all operations. I'm equal partners and you gotta put out my money because I don't got no money
And I was convinced they were gonna take this dirt kid and turn him around and kick his ass all the way back to California without an airplane
You know, right?
so sure enough the minute he opened his mouth, I said look I've been thinking about it Manuel and
I'll do it
But this is the deal and he's like I gotta talk to my partner
Say yeah, you need to do it because it's a big decision and I went to my hotel and I was happy. I knew that yeah
That was over with next morning. They picked me up to take me to the airport and the chauffeur says
Manuel was to see his office and I thought we had to go over some books or something
And I get in him and the other three partners are sitting there very stoic looking, you know, like
Like a wall. I'm like, oh shit. I really screwed up. They're gonna kill me
They they're gonna think I know too much, you know, all the shit starts going through your head, you know
And it looks at me. He says we'll do it
We'll front you, but we'll keep your profits so that you have your own money to invest
And I'm like you really guys really need to think about this. I never been I never seen drugs in my life
No, but you're pretty sharp. You can handle it. I
Can't tell the difference between cocaine and nothing. I said
Are you crazy? Are you guys sure you want to put a 20 year old kid in charge of this?
And they're like, yeah, we're sure and
Within six months we were importing
600 kilos I was making between a million three million dollars a month and I set up the entire organization
Pilots distribution
How do we get the money created all the foreign bank accounts in Switzerland?
Grand Cayman Lichtenstein
Tortola, how many partners it was for them and me I was a fit that group was if you want to call
Any group the median drug cartel that would have been the group that became the median drug cartel
Because it was the only group at that time. There was other people bringing two kilos three kilo
But a concerted group that was bringing
By the time 1979 we're bringing 800 kilos a month to a thousand
No one when no one even knew when when you used like I said, I was saying one or two kilos, you know and
So in 79 and at this time
Some a glue that was my closest friend
Right says to me. Hey the government of Bolivia
wants to deal wants to make a deal with you and
I'm so we went and we met with this captain of the Bolivian Air Force and they're like look we can sell you
All you want at ten thousand dollars a kilo and for every kilo you buy
I'll give you another one on credit and I'm like I'll be doing numbers that I'm like
we're gonna make seven million bucks a month and
And so I went to my godfather manual and he's like no you're crazy the Bolivian government. Yeah. Oh, yeah
The Bolivian got how did that happen? Oh, everybody knows they were like you saw a movie Scarface
Yeah, the guy that comes to kill Tony Montana right guy named Roberto Suarez. Yeah, that was our part of the shotgun
Yeah, yeah, he didn't come to answer that guy was so big. That was our partner. He over through five governments
You know very very powerful
The governor of Bolivia during that period time was run by the drug by the drug industry, okay, and so I
Go to my godfather. He's like now forget about it. There's no way
You know, you run everything for us if something happens
What's gonna happen to the organization? So nothing's gonna happen to me. Don't worry about it and I flew to Bolivia and we made the deal and
when
We are going and to get the story in greater like juicy detail
Then you got to buy my book because you know if you don't buy the book a whole story. Yep
No, but like I say in coming clean clip notes. Yeah, I'm doing the cliff. No. Yep. So
I
Flight to Columbia and I'm gonna show the strip to the pilots
Where the planes gonna come from Bolivia refuel and in Columbia then go to Nicaragua
I was gonna wait for a Nicaragua because I had a meeting with Somosa the general of Nicaragua because we were gonna start bringing in
cocaine in his refrigerated
government fishing boats or refrigerated boats, okay, and
so I
call Bolivia to tell him that
okay, where the planes will be there tomorrow and
My partner there says you need to come here
They screwed you
I'm like, what are you talking about?
He said the only cocaine that's here is what you paid for which was like 130 kilos
And they're like not on credit and I went down there and
You know, I threatened them that I was gonna kill them and they looked at me like are you crazy?
You guys are the craziest person in the world or you got the biggest set of balls
We ever met yeah, but you said that again will kill you and I'm like I'm 23 years old
I'm just a kid. Yeah, and look like a kid. I didn't even look intimidating
So I get on the airplane because I had to be in Nicaragua
There was no way to catch a plane from Bolivia to Nicaragua, you know back then there will be a flight once a week twice a week
So I'll get on the airplane go back to Colombia not a problem and then from there. I'll keep on the airplane to Nicaragua
One day they landed there and refuel then so most I was gonna send me in a jet to
Go pick up my ex-wife in the American Republic because I was going to Europe to pick out this brand new
Mercedes convertible I have bought and we're gonna spend a month in Europe
So landing Colombia perfect everything went like clockwork then we leave for
Nicaragua the next day and the first alternator goes out
