Can't wait don't fucking my brother's face is here fucking to get the real documentary. That's my brother right there
There beach is the closest thing I have to home
So that's what midair beach is a place where I came to get a job and go to work and get pussy
You
You
Fucking fuck the IFQ system they can kiss my fucking ass
Every shareholder there is I'll probably get fired after your fucking
Post this but I don't give a fuck fuck all them fuck all them fuckers that think they they got me mother balls
Because of your IFQ cuz you worked on years
Mother fucker. I never got one goddamn IFQ ticket, but I worked on years
Tell them to suck my fucking cock all nine and a half by five and three quarters
Wow, how do they determine who gets the IFQs? Fuck if I know I don't get none
You know a lot of guys make their living off owning boats here and not really fishing and to me that's
Being a boat owner is not a fisherman. The guy on the boat should be the owner making the money
You know and should be the IFQ holder not people sitting on the shore these guys if they hear that they probably throw me off the stock right now
You know where I'm from it's a lifestyle. It's something to be proud of around here
It's just like the carny ride operators, you know the other people own the boats, you know, you have IFQs
It's too much money and by the time the fisherman gets paid. There's no money for them
Yes, it's not a good industry and I don't even see it lasting
Ten years ago there was no IFQ system the federal government said
Fishing industry you're only allowed at three million pounds
Right and so every time you came in you had to give them your total weights
It was just a free-for-all so it was a derby they called derby fishing
So it's just balls to the wall fish as much as you can
So let's say that three million pounds got caught in nine months
Well, what do you do the rather the other three months? You know what you do you stop fishing?
It's what you do. So what they did is they created a monopoly the government created a monopoly by going ahead and saying
Fisherman based or owners of fishing boats based upon your previous catch history
We're gonna give you this and we're gonna give this to you every year
You're gonna get quota every year a hundred thousand some people had two hundred thousand if it's red grouper
That's worth a dollar a pound
So the government gives
guys like Dean
100,000 pounds of quota
Every year
So what does he get from the government? He gets the best retirement plan known to man
Now you don't have to own a fishing boat you don't have to be a fisherman you just earn quota and play with it like stock
They've sold some of it given into their relatives it's gone everywhere
Up in Maine, it's so tight that you're not even allowed to if you're the owner you have to run the hydraulic handle
If you have to have oil skins on a boots you have to work
It's owner operated small time the small boats may use more fuel, but it's better. You send your whole small fleet out
Then you come back. It's a lot better than just sending big boats out to Rape ship
What's the plan for tonight
A lot of the mates are junkies and
They see how it affects their pocketbook
They'll go ahead and get a wad of money after they come in and they'll blow their wad of money in three or four days
And then they're broke and then they come back to go fishing again. They called see have
You know where you're going out to sea so that you can rehab out there out at sea
I
Five ten
Eleven well thirteen forty that's enough for a bottle of fucking vodka
That's that one
That is a fucking like a four-finger gap right there though fuck yeah, what's a four-finger gap?
Yeah, look at that
Whoa, stick your fucking fist up
Yeah, fuck really holy fuck next
Oh
Look at this new light man check that shit out. That's fucking badass
If you don't fight if you don't get picked up by the fucking coast guard with that you might as well jack yourself off to death and
wait for the sharks to eat
Thirty years since 1985 I've been commercial fishing I started gill netting and then I went long-lining and I've been doing ever since
What's the most important thing to you?
Pussy alcohol food
I started working in the restaurants on the beach and then I had some titty dancer in my fucking apartment
I was dating a titty dancer and fucking
Well like all my friends were getting fucked they like I had chicks over and I had to go to work
They didn't work. They were like rich kids. You shit. Yeah, so I'm staying with these rich kids
They're all staying home fucking all the time and I got to go to work and I'm like
Fuck this shit. I quit
I threw my shit away and I was living in a dope house on the beach frickin
Oh my god, were you sucking cock? No, no, we're fucking they got fucking fishermen in my apartment
My titty dancer girlfriend doing cocaine taking LSD and smoking pot
Waiting for my next job and then some fishermen come in and goes you need to go to work
And I'm like, yeah, and then he took me fishing and I've been fishing ever since and I
Had the Robin steel because I first come those beats. Oh a little thief, but then I got a job
There's my fucking hook finger there. I've been hooked in every finger on my hand
I got a look in the penis right in the tip and fucking I talked like a little girl get the shot because I was like hanging
Oh my god, my shorts
I mean like hanging
Oh my god, I'm fucking getting sick. I gotta stop the line. Oh
I was scared. I like I thought my dick would fall up at the end of the trip
God, I'm fucking like something we need a spore in and shit. Oh fuck it. Oh my god
No, it's a 13 o'clock
Oh
Oh
