Alright, we're here with Lanny Pafo, the genius and WWE legend, brother of Macho Man Randy
Savage.
Thank you for coming on here today, man, I really appreciate it.
Keep going with the introduction.
I don't know if I could do any better than that.
I'm up with some wonderful things to say about me.
Those are some wonderful things, man.
You've had an extraordinary life, you know, surrounded by icons coming up in the WWE.
You've written some books.
You've done a lot.
I've had an extraordinary day, culminating with this here.
Well, thank you for being here.
It means a lot.
The last time I saw you was when we did the little mini documentary for our channel about
you.
We went to your apartment.
We followed you around.
No, you didn't.
You went to my condominium.
Oh, your condominium.
Yes.
I don't rent.
I buy it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yes.
You have invested a lot over the years.
You've managed your money wisely.
I believe in following the advice of great men that have gone before me.
For example, Warren Buffett.
Yes.
And I read The Richest Man in Babylon.
And I'm kind of the opposite of Ric Flair.
Woo!
Do you read a lot of finance books, money and finance books?
Robert Kiyosaki books and Ramsey videos and different things.
But if you're going to read one book, it would be The Richest Man in Babylon.
The Richest Man in Babylon.
I've heard of it.
You don't have to read the book.
It's on YouTube.
Oh, is it really?
Mm-hmm.
It's free.
They just read it to you.
Sometimes I just download the audiobooks on iTunes or somewhere.
They'll usually have an audio version of it.
Well, this is free.
And it's YouTube.
Oh, wow.
Perfect.
The Richest Man in Babylon.
Yeah.
Because we don't want to spend money on books.
Right.
Let the great actor read to us.
Yeah.
Is it actually the guy, the actual, the author who read the audio or?
No, because he died many years ago.
Oh, OK.
Classen.
Yeah.
Clayson, Classen, whatever the hell his name is.
But I've got a big advantage over him.
I've got a pulse.
Yeah, that's true.
That is a big advantage.
Yes.
So how have you been?
What have you been up to?
I heard that you went to Japan recently.
I had a great time in Japan thanks to New Japan Pro Wrestling.
And we went everywhere.
They took me around.
They had a guy pick me up at the airport, took me everywhere.
And I tried not to abuse the good feelings that I was getting.
Yeah.
You know, some guys take advantage of those guys.
What were you doing there?
I was doing the color commentary for some events that they had in New Japan Pro Wrestling.
Wow.
And that was the first time you've been there or?
First time in my life.
Wow.
And in four wrestling events, guess is there's one thing I never saw.
That's what that was.
What's that?
An empty seat.
Wow.
No, they were sold out to the rafters and I can't knock success.
It's crazy how big wrestling is in Japan.
It's crazy.
I remember Hulk telling stories to me about, you know, how he used to go there so many
times in a month or a week or they, I remember, I don't know if it was him or if it was Rick
Flare.
Cause I spent a lot of time with both of them telling me how they made like three trips
to Tokyo in a week or something, something insane like that.
Well from Dallas to Tokyo Narita Airport is 13 hours.
It took me three hours to get to Dallas and then home.
It is a long trip, but it's better than covered wagon.
If AOC becomes president, I don't know if we can make it.
If who?
Ocasio Cortez wants to ban all planes.
So I don't know if we're going to just go to Japan.
It's crazy the stuff is going on with the planes right now, with the Boeing jets being
grounded.
Can you believe it?
Yes.
I wish they would ground them until they figure out what the hell's going on.
What is that?
What is going on with them?
Have they figured it out yet?
I don't know what's going on.
They're still grounded.
Well, they had a Southwest airline 737.
Yeah.
They just had to make an emergency stop, you know, and I don't like emergency stops.
I want you to go where you're going.
I don't know.
I don't like emergency stops.
That's scary.
See, it's men and machines.
Men make mistakes and machines break down.
So you're flipping a coin every time you go anywhere.
But what are you going to do?
Not go anywhere?
Right.
You know, you've got a choice.
You can stay home and then a plane might crash on your head.
Or you can go somewhere and you're taking a risk.
But statistically, you're doing well.
That's true.
Statistically, the drive to the airport is more dangerous than the flight.
How often do you travel nowadays?
Are you doing a lot of appearances?
I think the first time I went to go back to last year, the first time I ever saw you
and met you was at WrestleMania last year in New Orleans.
I saw you there at WrestleCon.
I think that's what it was called.
And somebody, you know, I could hear Jake, the snake screaming.
Oh, yes.
I'm going to throw coffee on him.
It wasn't some guy.
It was Harry Smith.
Harry Smith.
Yes.
I'm not familiar with who that is.
It's Davy Boy Smith's son.
Okay.
Actually, Jake Roberts was on a podcast such as this one, saying defamatory things about
Davy Boy, his father, who is deceased.
Oh, naturally you can imagine his displeasure.
Of course, Harry Smith has got shoulders that big.
Oh, shit.
Oh, yeah.
He's a big dude.
Big, big and strong and fit and brave.
Oh, so he's lucky.
He just got a coffee thrown on him.
Not, you know, a haymaker.
Um, Jake, the snake is one year younger than me.
I know you can't believe it.
If you saw us together as, you know, I know, because he's, he's not aging quite as gracefully
as you are.
Well, he's, he's done a, actually he's the toughest guy in wrestling because he's been
trying to commit suicide for 35 years and he's still alive.
That's insane.
Yeah.
I still haven't watched the documentary.
A lot of my big wrestling fan friends have been telling me, you got to watch the Jake
the snake documentary and I still haven't done it.
I need to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You're going to say that a diamond dollars page is a saint and I think he is.
That's funny.
WWE.
So, so like I've never been a huge wrestling fan, a huge WWE fan in my childhood.
Usually if you're going to be a big WWE fan, that's going to start in your younger years.
Until recently, I have a really good friend of mine who brought me out to WrestleMania
for the first time last year in New Orleans.
And when I got there and I witnessed that show and just the being there and the energy
in that stadium and like all the lights and everything that goes into the production,
it's just, it's just, it's insane.
I think it's a very misunderstood, like the people of WWE, the fans of WWE are very misunderstood.
There's like an outside stigma.
People like make fun of them.
They're weirdos.
They're crazy or whatever, but it's actually just like, they just love the art form of
it.
It's like people think, oh, they don't know it's fake or they don't think it's fake
or they think it's made up or these people are just insane.
No, they understand it and they love it because it's performance art really.
I can't knock success.
And when you're following up the Superdome in New Orleans and every dome thereafter,
you know, like I said, New Japan didn't have an empty seat, Vince doesn't have an empty
seat either.
Right.
Definitely not.
I was fucking blown away by that show.
They put asses in chairs.
They do.
And there's nothing fake about that.
Even Lou Albano told me the only two things real and wrestling, the money and the miles.
You can't fake jumping off those ropes.
Well, the money is not fake and the miles aren't fake.
Right.
You know, you got a long, you know, I had to go to Tokyo Narita Airport.
Whoa, that was a long, long, arduous journey.
Many times I thought, you know, I'm a non-drug guy, but if somebody had a Xanax, I might want
to taste it.
Yeah.
Just to get the edge off.
Traveling that those guys had to do, like a lot of those guys have to do to keep up with
those shows, not just now, but in the 80s and the 90s.
It's incredible.
Can't believe I did it, but I survived it all and I'm very, very grateful to everything.
Who the hell is this?
This is the sound man decides to show up halfway through.
Hello.
Hello, sound man.
Wearing his hard hat.
Clean, showered up, but I ran late at work.
So when, so how old were you when you actually got started in the, in the wrestling business?
18.
And how, why did you get into it?
I didn't want to be a welfare recipient or concrete.
So I mean, so how, explain to me how you got into it or father is a wrestler.
Okay.
I made that made it easier because I didn't have to pay somebody to teach me.
And sometimes they take more money than they're worth.
Although Jay Lethal has a school and he's great.
So his is, you know, but he's got a good school, you know.
So anyway, that's about the size of that.
I got when your dad's a wrestler and he allows it, you know, you get to follow in his footsteps,
which was, uh, turned out to be a blessing for me and my brother.
Right.
And who was into it first?
You were your brother.
Well, I'm two years younger.
I was, um, I was born in 54, he's born in 52.
And I got into professional wrestling in 1973, but in 1971, when he graduated high school,
he was signed by the St. Louis Cardinals and released by the St. Louis Cardinals two years
later and then signed with the Cincinnati Reds organization and got released and then
signed with the Chicago White Sox and then finally got released.
So four years later, he's into wrestling in 1975.
And then in 1985, he makes his debut in Madison Square Garden.
So baseball's lost his wrestling's gain.
That's such a crazy story.
There's no, is there any other WWE superstars that have transitioned from like another professional
sport into wrestling besides UFC?
Let me think.
I mean, not that I know of.
I don't, I don't think there is.
Well, there's a lot of professional football players that have gone into wrestling.
Is there really?
Yeah.
Hexhaw Jim Duggan.
Oh, remember him?
No, I don't.
He was in the Atlanta Falcons.
Hexhaw Jim Duggan.
You know who that is?
He's a guy with a two by four.
Okay.
American flag.
Yep.
Yep, yep, yep.
I know who that is now.
Tough guy.
Yeah.
And he's still alive.
And he's one of the few people that's married to his original wife and has two beautiful
daughters.
And so when you say that most wrestlers fritter away their lives, you can count Tito Santana,
Rick Martel, Hexhaw Jim Duggan as people that kept the original wife and are living a happily
ever after life.
Yeah.
Do you keep in touch with any of these guys still?
I see them once in a while.
Yeah.
Mainly keeps yourself though.
I'm a very lonely man.
Some people like being lonely though.
Some people like you.
Some people are just too smart to be surrounded by other people.
I'm a sociable hermit.
When the time comes, I can be sociable, pinky up with the drinks.
And when the time comes, I like to, two words I'm never going to say again.
Yes, dear.
I was married 12 years.
Wow.
You were, we were in one marriage.
I was in one marriage and divorce and now I have one daughter and I have no wife and
I have one grandson and I'm training him to call me abuelo and might be another abuelo
coming up.
We'll see.
Wow.
It's exciting.
Yes.
It's exciting if you're easily excited.
That's cool, man.
If somebody shoots one past the goalie, everybody's a grandpa eventually.
Eventually.
That's true.
No, it's quite a, I'm very excited about it.
I make light of it, but it's about the biggest thing I've got going.
Yeah.
And how did you start, get started in, in authoring books?
You're a poet.
I'm a poet.
Yes.
I.
How did that come about?
After wrestling or was that just always there?
When I was in the fifth grade, there was a beautiful, beautiful teacher.
She probably doesn't want me to say her name, but her name was Patricia R. Ruffinock who
became Mrs. Mockel and she says, Lanny, that paper you wrote, how I spent my summer vacation
and the other one.
Tell me a little bit about yourself.
They were just wonderful.
I think you could be a writer.
And Casey in the sunshine band wasn't out yet, but I said, but the baby ain't seen nothing
yet.
Here's something you'll never will forget.
And then I started wrestling and starting incorporating poetry into the wrestling in
the, but not in the WWF or WWE of, you know, I wasn't there yet.
And I met a guy that kind of changed my life and his name, Shel Silverstein.
Oh yeah.
Do you know the missing piece where the sidewalk ends, light in the attic, the giving tree.
And he also wrote some songs, a boy named Sue for Johnny Cash ever hear it?
Okay.
Can you sing it for us?
Twist my arm.
Well, my daddy left home when I was three, he didn't leave much to ma on me, except this
old guitar and an empty bottle of booze.
Well, I don't blame him that he run and hid, but the meanest thing that he ever did is
before he left, he went and call me Sue.
He named me Sue.
Well, he must have thought that it was quite a joke and it got a lot of laughs from a lots
of folk.
It seems I had to fight my whole life through.
Well, some gal at Giggle and I get red and some guys laugh and I bust his head.
I tell you, life ain't easy for a boy named Sue.
Anyway, it goes on and on.
And it has a real nice ending.
So you can look it up when you get home.
Okay.
Yeah, or look it up on your phone, whatever.
But I'm just telling you, and then the another song, the unicorn song, I bet you've never
heard the unicorn song goes, there were green alligators and long neggies, so Humpty
Bat camels and chimpanzees, some cats and rats and elephants, but sure as you're born,
the loveliest of all was the unicorn.
So that's an Irish jig.
Yeah.
Joe Silverstein also did cartoons for Playboy magazine.
Oh, really?
And he did his own illustrations.
He was a cartoonist.
Yeah.
You go on YouTube, you look up the giving tree, you don't have to get the book, it's
animated in front of you.
And it's a hell of a book with a big moral of the story.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have a couple of those books.
Hold on.
Check, check.
Check.
You're the sound man.
He's a sound man.
You know, I let him set it up today.
I noticed you shut off the air conditioner so there wouldn't be a humming.
Yeah.
Well, actually, we never really touched the air conditioning in here, just it's never
usually that loud.
It's a little hot, but that's okay.
I wasn't too hot.
I'm sorry.
I won't bitch.
I'll be fine.
You saw my sauna, right?
I saw your sauna.
It's the infrared sauna.
Uh-huh.
Now I just got a brand new shower in the sauna room, not in the sauna, you know, in the bathroom,
in the other bathroom.
Yeah.
And, um, man, it's got one of those big, um, shower heads.
Like a rainforest.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, it's great.
That's all.
How often do you use your sauna?
Every day.
Do you really?
Every day that I'm home.
Yeah.
Are we still on the air?
We're still recording.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Good.
Let's not waste any of this great banter.
No, no, this is, this is a great banter.
I love this.
Oh, yeah.
What were we talking about just a minute ago for?
You were asking me to sing three more songs.
I really, okay.
Yeah.
I just kidding.
The giving tree.
The giving tree was the last one that you were telling us about.
You also, you wrote a book or a, a series of poems about smoking cigarettes, right?
Yes.
What inspired that?
Um, when my daughter was being born, I read an article that if the child does not smoke
in school, they will be, have a big self image and they will also avoid the four nightmares
of youth, the five nightmares of youth.
And those nightmares are number one, bad grades.
Number two, dropping out of school.
Number three, drugs slash alcohol.
Number four, teenage pregnancy.
Number five, teenage suicide.
So I don't know if that's true, but according to this article, if you can teach your kids
to stand up to peer pressure and not smoke, they will also do a good job standing up to
peer pressure with everything else.
Okay.
So it's mainly about peer pressure stand or standing up to peer pressure, not, not so
much smoking.
Well, that's, yeah, but it's smoking, but it's also peer pressure, you know, because
how does smoking always start?
Well, everybody's doing it.
And if you're just, so, you know, the thing is the reason I don't look like I'm 64 is
because I didn't do things.
Everybody did.
Otherwise I looked like everybody.
Yeah.
You know, I've been to a couple of class reunions and holy, you know, some of these people need
to have that.
So it's, it's, it's a consistent thing with, with not just you, but also Jimmy Hart claims
that he's never once in his life had a sip of alcohol, never had a hit of weed, nothing.
And I find that really hard to believe going through the 80s and the 90s in the wrestling
business.
It's crazy to me.
Well, Jimmy Hart never lies.
Okay.
And not only did he get through the 80s and 90s, let me tell you what else he did with
drug free.
He had a hit record in 1964.
Keep on dancing.
Oh, keep on dancing.
Keep on dancing.
Keep on doing the jerk.
Yeah.
Shake it, shake it, shake it, baby.
Yeah.
Let me.
We had, we had one.
He sung it on the podcast here.
The locomotion.
Okay.
So the thing is, if he didn't do drugs with Sonny and Cher, and he didn't do drugs with
Dick Clark, he's not going to do drugs because he got through the music business without
doing drugs.
Right.
So, um, he spent time with Elvis, crazy, the crazy stories he had to tell.
He's from Memphis.
Right.
And so it was Jimmy Hart.
Right.
And let me tell you what, Jimmy Hart is a plus in my book, a plus in fact, macho man
wouldn't have been the macho man without Jimmy Hart.
Really?
You can tell him I said so.
Why, why is that?
Ask him.
I want you to tell me though, cause you're here right now.
Jimmy Hart opened the door for macho man, Randy Savage in Memphis and went out on a limb
for him.
And then he went to New York to the Vince McMahon and went out on a limb for him again.
And in both cases, Randy would ask, do you have any room for my little brother?
And that's how I got there.
No way.
But if it wasn't for Jimmy Hart, none of these wonderful things would have happened.
And you can tell Jimmy Hart for me that I love him very much and that I am not going
to forget how nice he was to me and my family.
I'll tell him, he's going to watch this.
So he'll see it.
Jimmy, I love you baby.
And don't forget the policeman is your friend.
We love you baby.
Love you baby.
Love you baby.
That's crazy.
I didn't know that he helped get you.
Can you do Jimmy Hart's laugh?
I can't get the high pitch like he has.
Yeah.
Wizard of Oz laugh.
Yeah, yeah.
Am I pretty?
That guy's a character.
Jimmy Hart never told a lie in his life.
Not to me.
Not to anybody.
Man, there's nobody I've met that's quite like Jimmy Hart.
He's a guy.
And you never will.
No, I definitely never will.
I believe that.
Nobody ever has a bad thing to say about Jimmy.
No, nobody.
Not anybody.
Well, let's talk bad about Jimmy Hart.
No, we don't want to do that.
Jimmy, that's a good thing because you don't always meet a lot of people like that.
You don't meet anybody like Jimmy Hart.
But I'm willing to play the devil's advocate and make stuff up about Jimmy Hart.
That's right.
But I mean, you don't even meet people where everybody only has good stuff to say about
him.
You know, it's rare.
He's a rare.
He's a rare human for sure.
But he's amazing.
Well, sometimes people talk badly about me.
I don't believe it.
I've never heard a bad thing about you.
What's the worst thing somebody said about you?
Bad things about Lanny.
Let's put it this way.
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness.
How's that?
I like it.
Do you understand it?
It's all fun until the rabbits got the gun.
It's all fun until the rabbits got the gun.
Yes.
But if you're persecuted for righteousness, it's like, I believe be yourself or be by
yourself.
If you guys want to do drugs, you can do drugs.
I won't knock you out, but I won't hang around either.
So indefinitely that group of people, I wasn't popular.
However, very few of them are still alive because if you do what they do, you'll be
where they'll be.
They're not going to live.
See, in 36 years, I'm going to be 100.
Then again, I might get whacked out leaving the studio.
So you know, there's a lot.
That won't happen.
I promise.
You ever see that movie, Seth MacFarlane, A Million Ways to Die in the West?
I've briefly saw it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
On Netflix.
I recommend it.
Yeah.
It's great.
Seth MacFarlane is the man.
Yeah.
It's like a parody of that Quentin Tarantino movie.
What is it?
Kill Bill?
No.
Hateful 8.
Yeah.
It's kind of like a comedy version of that.
I don't know if you've ever seen the hateful 8.
Hateful 8's got some comedy.
It was pretty funny.
Yeah.
I think that's his most recent movie.
Quentin Tarantino.
It's super good.
Now he's doing a Charles Manson movie.
You know who was calling me just now?
Who was it?
Martha.
Do you know who Martha is?
No.
Who's Martha?
She has a business totally clean.
She comes in and removes dust from my house.
Oh yeah?
And she does the floors.
She does the windows.
And you know, she does it for free.
No.
For business.
For fee.
Yeah.
Not for free.
For a small fee.
For fee.
And a little tip.
You know what tip means?
What does tip mean?
To ensure prompt service.
Tips.
I like it.
Yeah.
That's a good acronym.
It's an acronym.
People don't know that.
Yeah.
What's NATO?
What is NATO?
I don't know.
I don't know.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
I'm sorry.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Hmm.
Want to hear the president's Washington Adams, Jefferson, Madison Monroe, John Quincy Adams,
Jackson Van Buren, Harrison, Tyler Polk, Taylor, Fillmore Pierce Buchanan, Lincoln Johnson,
Grant Hayes, Garfield Arthur, Cleveland Harrison, Cleveland McKinley, Roosevelt.
Taft Wilson, Harding Coolidge Hoover, Roosevelt Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy Johnson, Nixon,
Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, Obama, Trump.
Who's your favorite of all the presidents?
Trump.
Why is that?
No.
Abraham Lincoln.
Abraham Lincoln.
Yes.
Good choice.
What's that?
Good choice.
Yes.
A quote for Abraham Lincoln that used to hang in the library, the Lincoln Library in Springfield,
Illinois.
Really?
I don't know if it still does, because they got this brand new museum, and my friend that
put it up there, Tom Schwartz, that graduated with me in high school, Downers Grove North,
1973, got a PhD in diplomatic history, thank you very much, and he became the Lincoln Answer
Man, and he's got a career about Lincoln.
Now he's gone on to Herbert Hoover.
So anyway, he failed at everything he tried, but always tried and tried again, and when
he failed, he tried and tried some more.
His persistence saved our country from a time of desperation, pitting brother versus brother
in a war.
But when he won his victory, he used the healing power of love, not malice, but with charity
for all.
He brought the self up off her knees and gave her back her dignity.
We've never had a president so tall.
He's a city in Nebraska.
He's a tunnel in New York, a memorial in Washington, DC.
You can see him at Mount Rushmore and the penny in the five and the pages from a time
in history.
Born in Hodgeville, Kentucky, made his name in Illinois, but an actor's bullet blew it
all away.
Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord and the man who lived to save
the USA.
That's good.
That was beautiful.
Well, thank you.
You're a man of many talents, Landy.
Yeah, you are.
Yes, I had a little three by five card when I just in case somebody asked for it.
But Lincoln was, um, you know, I'm from Illinois, so he was the, we're the land of Lincoln.
We got a license plate.
Yep.
Going back to like the early days of the wrestling, um, what was, what would you say your biggest
match was or like what, what moment in your WWE career put you on the map?
Would you say there's only one man smart enough to put Hulk Hogan down that genius has a devastating
plan.
You're looking at the future world wrestling Federation who appeals to the modern thinking
fan.
When I emerge victorious with gold around my waist, I shall be the most plendiferous
of all.
Don't tell me how cause six foot eight and I'm just six foot two between the ears.
I'm over 10 feet tall.
He wants to wrap his 24 inch pythons around my neck and give his famous, what you're
going to do by the power of the genius and the world's smartest man.
I'll rely on my incredible IQ.
So that was, I remember that you do.
That was before the match, right?
You, you recorded that.
That was like your, uh, the press conference, your, there was an NBC, right?
The Saturday night's main event and Hulk Hogan, he did that for me.
And that's why, if you want me to get, I'll tell you, I will never talk bad about you
versus Hulk Hogan.
I will never talk bad about Jimmy Hart, Hulk Hogan, and there's a, only a few others on
that list.
Otherwise we're going to talk bad about people.
Wow.
I don't know.
I don't get the vibe that you talk bad about anybody.
I talked bad about the dead.
So what was that match like when you were going into it?
Cause that was, that was your biggest, the biggest match that you ever had.
Like, what was it like going, like leading up to that and like getting ready to go into
it?
Like, did you and Hulk talk beforehand and planning any kind of like anything out at
all?
Or did you guys just kind of like play it by ear?
How did it go?
Okay.
If you go to the website, geniuslannypoffle.com, that's geniuslannypoffle.com.
You'll see what I'm most proud of in my life.
It's going to be my speech for the Hall of Fame inducting my brother against his wishes,
but I inducted him into the Hall of Fame because I became the older brother when I turned 59.
And then I thought to myself, Star Trek, the needs of the many, I'll weigh the needs of
the few or the one.
And I've got millions of macho man fans and only one macho man.
And I said, I got to induct him into the Hall of Fame before it's too late.
It's too late already because he's not there to give one final.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
But at least I can do this.
And then I can die a happy man in knowing that I did what was right instead of what
was required of me.
Okay.
Because sometimes you have to be bold and sometimes you have to do what's right and
not popular.
Yeah.
Okay.
So anyway, unpopular decisions.
That's what the older brother gets to do.
And when I became 59, I became the older brother.
See, I'm not really an alpha male, but with nobody around for competition, I become
the alpha male.
The, the beta male becomes the alpha male.
One eye is king in the valley of the blind.
So anyway, um, in that, you will find some of my videos of my happiest, um, most memorable
matches and that is
when you do in the name induction in the front page of my website, okay, you will
find the speech, okay.
The, with the gene of the Lanny Papo inducting his brother into the hall of fame
right in two, oh, one, five, 20,000, 15, 2015.
Okay.
And then, um, and then if you go into videos, you'll see my match against
how Kogan and a couple of other things that I'm very proud of my appearance on
Regis Philbin, that was a good day.
What'd you do with him?
Mr.
Perfect and I were on the Regis Philbin show following the, uh, my victory over
how Kogan.
Okay.
So, um, it was a great day for me.
That's awesome.
And, um, I've had a few moments, you know, a couple of highlights.
Yeah.
And then, um, of course, fame, if you win it comes and goes in a minute.
So these things mean only something special to me, but you know what?
Uh, just like a fat girl on prom night, I was glad to have a date for the dance.
That's great.
That's funny.
Yeah.
So on my way, when I was on my way back from New Orleans last year, uh, I was on
the same plane as a couple of guys that worked a vice and they actually said they
were going, they were only reason that they were in Clearwater.
They flew from New Orleans to Clearwater was to meet up with you and do
some filming with you and they were telling the story about, um, see, I don't
even know the details of it, but the story of the guy in Puerto Rico or was it,
was it Puerto Rico that got murdered?
Yes.
You're talking about bruiser Brody, Frank Goodish.
Okay.
And, uh, bruiser Brody was the guy who got murdered, right?
And the man that murdered him is, uh, the invader who was a masked man and, um,
underneath his mask, Jose Gonzalez is his name and he never did a day in
jail because they got rid of the knife, no weapon.
They cremated the body without permission.
So you got no, no knife, no murder weapon, no, but no body and Puerto Rico is
its own little mafia, you know, and, uh, they just said it was, um, self-defense.
Right.
And this guy was six foot five and he was a real scary guy.
And that's true.
He was really, oh, he's, have you seen his pictures?
No.
Oh, you better look at his picture.
Okay.
Yeah.
And, uh, I'll tell you what, you know, I wasn't there and I'm glad I wasn't, but,
um, bruiser Brody could be a bully in the ring.
Yes.
We have bullies in the ring.
Sometimes there's bullies and, um, what do you mean by that?
Like how, how can you be a bully in the ring?
Well, you can be a bully in life, right?
Right.
I could bully you right now.
Or it could, you know, in high school, they push you again, you just hit
you harder or, or, or, okay.
Hit you harder, okay.
Take advantage of you, right.
You know, call you names, whatever, rough you up a little.
There's no, you know, wrestle, the wrestling ring is the only place where you
can legally commit murder, but this was done in Biomone Puerto Rico in the
shower at the ballpark and, um, you know, he had a, he covered up.
Was this after a match?
No, before.
Okay.
And Bruiser Brody was all excited because he was going to buy in to the business.
He was going to buy into the promotion.
Okay.
And, um, Nick Boppingville said something that he died.
Um, he's a very dear friend of mine.
I just thought of this, um, when we got the news, Nick didn't like him at all.
So he says, well, I just cut him out of the program, which is a kind of a bad
joke too soon, too soon.
Well, you know, I guess it was, uh, but 1987, 1986.
So it's not 1988.
Maybe, I don't know.
I don't remember, you know, it was one of those.
So, um, so it was in the shower.
It was in the shower and it's a horrible, horrible thing.
Plus they let him lay there for 45 minutes before the ambulance came up, you
know, and I don't know if they were slowing that.
You see what I mean?
So he died of the, um, infection later on that day.
I mean the next morning, he didn't make it through the night.
Why did the guy stab him?
Like I said, he was a bully.
Oh, he just, he just encounters with him, didn't like him and just
this guy was going to kill him.
This guy was about five foot six.
Brody was six foot six and, um, they had wrestled before and Brody wouldn't
mind calling you a midget and roughing you up, you know, and some people don't
like that.
And you guys, yeah, he got under his skin a little bit.
He's had it up to here.
You know, um, you know what Puerto Rican boxing gloves are?
No knives.
It's a joke, but you know, wow, it's the way it is there.
They, and you know, they have, uh, stabbings.
They're like hundreds every day and they have guns too, but mostly knives.
That's so crazy.
Did he actually admit to killing him, to stabbing him?
He admitted it was self-defense.
Okay.
Yeah.
He admitted it was self-defense, right?
And so the Puerto Rican country, or they just, the law there, they just
wrote it off basically as self-defense kangaroo court.
Yeah.
They never pursued it or they have some power there.
Yeah.
It's not your island.
It's not your turf.
And he was from there.
Right.
Wouldn't you rather fight me on your home turf?
Yeah, of course, you're going to go to my house and do it.
You know what I mean?
Uh, you know, I might have an advantage of my house that you don't, right.
Right.
Yeah.
It's always a home field advantage.
It's not a nice story, but nothing is worse.
What a horrible accident.
Owen Hart in Kansas city, he fell from the, he was doing a stunt where he was
going to lower himself into the ring and something broke and he fell to his
death about five stories in that horrible.
And what a nice person.
What a nice man.
And he wasn't a bully.
So you could say karma, but not the other guy.
Yeah.
Right.
Why, why, there's so, it seems like so many WWE wrestlers live right here in
this area, like in Tampa, Florida.
Why is that?
Cause they're smart.
This is a great place to live.
You have to go everywhere else to know how great this place is.
Yeah.
And I mean, they've all done a lot of traveling.
So they, they have a good place to compare it to.
And where I moved, I was in, I was in Indian rocks beach.
Yeah.
And when my mom passed away, I moved to Clearwater because I wanted to be
walking distance to Whole Foods and walking distance to crunch fitness.
So can you imagine?
And plus all the wonderful places in between the mall and everything.
So 10 years from now, I may not be driving 10 years from now.
I won't have to because everything's here, walking distance.
Yeah, you can't beat that.
You can't beat it.
Not even with an egg beater.
Yeah, it's insane.
Like even like Luke, the bushwhacker, a guy I've never even heard of until
I met the guy, you know what I mean?
Like he runs the gym on Clearwater beach.
That guy's crazy.
Um, Jimmy, Jimmy, Hulk, even like the guys that are currently big now, like John
Cena and David Batista, all those guys live here.
This is a fantastic place to live.
I'm telling you, plus it's got a hell of an airport and a real nice, small
airport to the Clearwater St. Pete airport.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I go there to visit my daughter, you know, two hours to Lexington nonstop, you
know, Allegiant Airlines, right?
Yeah, that's what I fly.
You know, it's it's a little, it's cheap.
It's no frills at all.
I mean, you know, plus they, uh, they only fly like once a week, you know, but
you got to work with their schedule.
Right, right.
But if you go American Airlines, you got to go to Charlotte and take a left or
you got to go to Delta Atlanta and then keep going.
You know, it's like who needs two flights when you can do it in one, right?
Right.
Right.
And cheaply.
Yeah.
Which is an adverb that modifies a verb.
Some people would just say cheap, but it's cheaply.
See, I don't make grammatical errors.
I talk good, gooder than most.
I tell you that.
Gooder than most.
You think you'll do any more rhyme, limerick books?
No, I don't think so, but I will, um, one of the, do you follow baseball at all?
Uh, I've seen a couple of baseball documentaries.
I know about who Ryan Howard is just cause I know the guy who just bought his house.
Yeah.
That's about as far as I go.
How about you?
Do you?
No, not really.
I mean, I just follow what I see in the highlights of ESPN and stuff for baseball.
Well, that's a great way.
Cause then you could avoid the scratching and the spitting and go right to the action.
Basically all I've seen lately is, uh, who is a Bryce Harper's new,
huge super contract, like the highest, right?
Speaking of money, they offered me $2,000 about 20 years ago to, um, they, they,
MLB, they, whoever they are, um, they said, would you come to Miami and do a poem
introducing Ted Williams?
I said, okay, but if it's any more money than that, I won't pay you.
See, I'm just, see the humor there.
Okay.
So I said, now, if you've never heard of Ted Williams, my goal is for you to
know all about him when I'm done with this poem.
Okay.
Through all of the magnificence that is Joe Robbie stadium, the
Marlins and the dolphins happy home.
It gives me pride to introduce a man who was to baseball, what Romulus and
Remus were to roam.
Take 95 and tell you hit the Massachusetts turnpike.
Get off at Fenway Park and there you are.
We're back in 1941.
This man hit 406 and even now Ted Williams has no power.
America anticipated every turnip bat to watch him knock the ball to smithereens.
521 home runs are even more incredible because he gave five years to the Marines.
The boys who wrote the sports page never did him any favors, but for Cooper's
town, they had to tell the truth that theater or Samuel Williams brought a
splendor to the game reminiscent of the late George Herman Ruth.
And he grabs me and hugs me and starts crying.
And he says, if I'd had you for a press agent, I'd have never had any problems.
So then he's on my flight back to Tampa because he lives in Crystal River where
he's an expert fisherman.
And, um, so I didn't have a cell phone back then.
Nobody did.
I'd never seen a cell phone back then.
What year is this?
I think it's about 92.
Okay.
So I called my mommy and daddy and I said, look, Ted Williams is on my flight.
You need to come here.
And he said he would meet you, uh, cause he's, he's, uh, checked a bag in.
So he's got to wait by the carousel.
So I get off the plane first.
I get my dad.
We wait by the escalator coming down and there I introduce him to Ted Williams.
And the only thing, of course, my father, my father died in March 4th, 2010.
Ted Williams died July 5th, 2002.
I wish I had a cell phone so I could get a picture of it.
But just like they say in Titanic, he exists now only in my memory, but it's
nice to, I wish I had a picture to show you, but I do remember it.
And it meant more to me to introduce Ted Williams to my father than it did to
meet him himself.
Yeah.
That's beautiful, Annie.
Thank you.
It's a beautiful thing.
I'm a beautiful man.
You are a beautiful man.
Yes.
When we did that video, I think it was about a year ago, we, we did that video with you.
Um, I helped you record a submission for, for America's Got Talent.
Is that what it was?
I've tried three times so far, nothing, but, um, hopefully ever after.
You, so you sent them the video that I shot of, uh, the Camelot.
Yeah, they didn't love me.
They didn't love you.
Next time I'm going to dress up in a tuxedo and do everybody love somebody
sometime.
Why, why America's Got Talent?
Why did, what made you want to do that?
Cause I fell in love with one of the girls on there, Laura Breton.
Oh, okay.
I see.
Oh my God.
She was, she's an opera.
So you're trying to put the moves on her?
No, no, no, she's underage and, uh, but I still, but you can still love someone.
What's underage?
She's under 18.
She's, let me see.
She was, listen, I'm not weird.
Everybody loves her.
Everybody Laura Breton, look her up.
And, uh, I believe she was just turning 14 then.
I think she's about 18 now, but I've never met her, but.
Everybody loves this girl because she's got it.
She's got this in the voice.
Oh, she's saying Nessum Dorma, you know, in a lot of opera tunes.
She's, she speaks Romanian.
She won Romania's got talent and she made the finals in America's got talent.
But trust me, there was nobody better than her before or since she has it.
So she inspired you to, to try to go on the show.
Well, that's the reason I love the show is because of her.
You know, there's been other great acts, but, uh, I enjoy it.
So the thing is I gave myself permission to fail.
I did not give myself permission to not try and in 36 years I'll be a hundred.
So I plan to live hopefully ever after you got to try as many things as you can.
You never know what'll work for you.
If you feel the desire, you know, the minute it's not fun anymore, I'm going to quit.
You know, it's not like, if I feel like, like for example, I believe the
acquitting is a good thing.
You know, it's like hitting your head and the head with a hammer.
It feels so good when you're quit.
Yeah.
You know, so not everything quitting is important.
I, I do not know when to quit is important.
It's good to know when to quit.
That is like, uh, if I try to leave this room through the wall, I should quit
doing that and try the door.
There's a big exit sign.
You know, you've got to read the sign.
Yeah.
Are you excited for WrestleMania to come to Tampa?
Oh, if you're easily excited, I suppose.
Has WrestleMania ever been in Tampa before?
I don't think it has never, never, right?
But it's been in Miami and Orlando several times, right?
Which is surprising.
It's never been in Tampa because this is like the hub of wrestlers.
This is where they all live.
So there's not going to be, so Vince is going to save a lot of money on travel.
If the price is right, I'll be there tonight.
If the price is right.
There's a price for anything, Lanny.
It's right.
I'm a whore.
We're all whores at some level.
Are you a whore?
I'm a whore.
Yeah.
You remember, I bet you don't know Andrew with Desclay, right?
Yeah.
We actually just saw Andrew.
I'm clear months back when he was here about three months ago.
He was here.
Little boy blue.
He needed the money.
Oh, yeah.
He did that when we were there too.
Jack and Joe went up the hill, each with a dollar and a quarter.
Yeah.
Joe came back with 250.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
He was one of the kind for sure.
That was pretty wild.
A couple of women walked out about, oh yeah, there are women walking out left and right there.
Yeah.
Did you know that they closed all the two story whore houses in Texas?
Why?
Too much fucking overhead.
Man, I need a little.
I went to school with Bill Ludwig.
Who's that from the drums?
Yes.
Ludwig drums.
Yes.
Wow.
What in college?
Downhill's Grove, Illinois high school.
I didn't go to college.
Okay.
Too smart for college.
Oh, of course.
I should know that you should have known that I should have.
That's why I'm not in debt up to my eyeballs.
Yep.
And all these people with their big debts and they're all, what are they?
Gender studies and English degrees.
What is that?
You know what I mean?
Art can't get a, can't get a job.
You know, it's like, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
It really is.
I don't, I know so many people that are just, they owe so much money and they
still, they're not even working in the same industry they studied.
Most people I know.
It's crazy.
It is.
What do you think?
What do you, how, what do you think could fix that?
Or how could that be fixed?
Brain transplant.
Brain transplants.
See, sometimes suicide is recommended.
I'd say you got a bad start.
You're better just start over.
Yeah, I just, squeeze that trigger time to go.
It's the American dream though.
It's American dream.
You got to go to college.
You got to like, have a family by a house.
Listen, come on, Lanny.
I've never met a teacher smarter than me, except in the fifth grade.
The teacher that taught you to be a writer or a poet.
If you're going to train a dog, what's the first rule?
Uh, I don't know.
My dog is not very well trained.
He still pisses in the house.
If you're going to train a dog, the first rule, you have to know more than the dog.
Okay.
Yeah, to get a role.
If I run into a problem, that's my problem.
If I run into a teacher that knows more than me, I'll sit there for, for 45 minutes
or whatever it takes.
See what I mean?
But no, they don't know more than me because they lead lives of quiet
desperation themselves.
Yes.
And they're, and they don't love the kids.
Don't think they love the kids.
No, they're in the union.
And guess what?
They've been having sex with their students for years, but all of a
sudden the truth is coming out too.
Oh, it's, oh, a big time Florida.
We're actually just talking about it on the radio.
It happens in Florida and 49 other states.
Yeah, but it seems like it happens a lot here.
Yes.
And it's not just the Catholic church.
Yeah.
It's everybody.
Yeah.
You know, and, uh, yes, it's Robert Kraft just got busted for, for getting a
hand job in Miami.
Who?
Robert Kraft, the guy who owns the, uh, the Patriots.
He was in Jupiter, Florida, getting, yeah.
Got a handy or something.
Well, he got the massage with the happy end massage.
Is that what's that?
I said, it was the massage and then just a happy ending.
Apparently he's 112 years old.
There must have been a small deposit.
Yeah.
I mean, they said that, uh, they said that the place has been under
investigation for like a really long time, couple of years, and they just
decided to bust Robert Kraft just when he goes in there to go, of course they
didn't, and they said, that's a victimless crime.
It should be legal.
Right.
Prostitution.
Yes.
I agree.
I agree with that.
It's the oldest profession, right?
Drug should be legal.
Prostitution should be legal.
You think all drugs should be legal?
Yes.
Even cocaine.
Yes.
Landy for president 2022.
Hey, I, you just got my vote.
No, I, you just worked your ass off in the concrete.
Right.
Who am I to tell you, you can't do something if you want.
Right.
I agree.
You pay for it.
You do.
Right.
And if I'm going to pay for the massage and the happy Indian, well, it's a problem.
Right.
There's nobody that got hurt because the power of choice is yours.
This is a free country.
If you want to throw your life away, it's not my fault.
It's yours.
But if you want to do it, who am I to say you can't?
But the one thing about that, but if you came over to my house and doing
something, then I, that's when I object.
But they say that some of those girls are sold in the sex slave industry or
whatever, you know?
Well, if it's legal, it'll, it'll be regulated more.
True.
Yeah.
And the thing is you can't stop it because it's there.
Okay.
Well, yeah.
And plus, if it was legal, it'd be a lot safer.
It wouldn't be, it wouldn't be a seedy, like dirty back alley places.
They wouldn't have to hide from it.
You know, people wouldn't have, people wouldn't have to hide from it.
And, and it's illegal to have sex or it's only illegal if you pay for it.
So you can do it.
There just can't be any money exchange.
It just doesn't make sense.
And then it doesn't make sense at all, but, but I agree.
If you turn a camera on and film it, then it's legal.
Cause then you're making a porno.
There you go.
Porno stars get paid to have sex.
That's right.
So if you just roll a camera, what if it's legal, you ever hear of a snuff movie?
A what movie snuff movie?
No, that's when they like kill people.
Right?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's something I didn't know and I wish I hadn't learned.
Yeah.
But that's like, whoa, like people were, Hey, you want to be in a movie?
Yeah.
Sure.
What could happen?
You know,
I hear there's a lot of that goes on in the upper echelon, rich people in Hollywood
and shit like that.
Oh, people are jaded.
You know, they've done it all, seen it all, all that, and then they want to do more.
You know,
I read an article about, uh, who's the guy that made fear and loathing?
Who crazy fear and loathing in Las Vegas.
The movie, the, um,
Forgot who made it.
The really wild guy.
I didn't see it.
I can't think of his name.
But I heard he was involved in some stuff like that with Johnny Depp too.
There was like an article I read.
It's, um, it's a free country or it's supposed to be.
Yeah.
And I choose to be drug free, but, uh, if you want to take all the money that you
made in concrete and enjoy it, that's your choice.
And I am not, unless you touch me, we don't have a problem.
Mm hmm.
Hmm.
I like that personality.
We need more of that in this country.
They could be a lot.
Do you think Donald Trump will do any of that stuff?
I'm sorry.
Do you think Donald Trump will make, make, do that, any of that, make prostitution
or drugs, any kind of drugs legal?
Do you think he'll, on a second term, do you think he'll try to make marijuana
federally legal?
I don't think so, but it'll get there eventually anyway, but I am very big time
against socialism and you know, that's like the left has lurched far to the left.
See, I've been to socialist countries.
It's like a mausoleum.
Okay.
And they're talking about, you know, talking about how great Sweden is.
Hey, I wrestled in Stockholm and I also wrestled in Zurich, Switzerland.
No comparison in Zurich.
They have capitalism and things are booming.
What do you mean?
No comparisons and what, what in particular, what was different to you?
It's depressing in Sweden.
Believe me, it's depressing.
Right.
Because you can see, you can, I don't have to tell you the rich part of town,
right?
You got two eyes.
Well, Zurich is a very vibrant, rich place and Sweden looks a little depressed.
And the people have, see, when socialism comes, the businesses don't want to do
business because they have to pay it in taxes and the people don't want to work
because why should I see what I mean?
They're going to pay me to not work.
So you're taking the incentive away from the worker and the, and the entrepreneur.
Yeah.
You know, and they demonize making a profit.
Right.
So, um, I'm a big fan of Donald Trump because, um, look at the economy.
Now you've got very bad citizens that are hoping the economy tanks.
Like, um, who's that guy, uh, Bill Maher, he actually, he says, oh, I'm, I'm
rooting for a recession.
Well, he makes a couple of million dollars a year.
Uh, he doesn't care if somebody suffers in a recession.
The poor will always suffer more than anybody.
They don't, because they rich our recession proof.
He's actually hoping for a recession.
So Trump doesn't get put in Trump is peace and prosperity so far.
Two years of peace and prosperity.
And they just found out that, um, there was no collusion.
Haha.
So what I mean, so all that fake news, how about that?
The fake news, how about that?
But who do you, how do you know which one's real?
Because there was no collusion.
But how do you know?
You don't know, right?
But since I am the genius, he is a genius.
So you know, I know that, uh, they are leaning to the left and they, if anything
good happens, they don't mention it.
If anything bad happens, they either invent it or mention it.
So they're not good actors.
And they don't love you.
Yeah.
I don't trust anything.
Any of those stations tell me.
Yeah.
But one thing is for sure, they're all talking about Donald Trump 24 seven.
Yes.
And they're all making a lot more money because of that.
That's true.
And guess what?
After the, after the news came out that there was no collusion, uh, Fox news
ratings went skyrocketing and then CNN and MSNBC, you know, they got egg on their
face, they got a whole omelet on their face.
But they're pivoting now and making it.
Yeah, but well, that's what a kid says.
Well, yeah, but you see what I mean?
If I'm your, if I'm your kid, but everybody's doing it.
Yeah.
Listen, um, the greatest plan ever devised is capitalism and there's risk in it.
And there's reward.
So anyway, some people.
Socialism is OPM, other people's money and sooner or later, you're going to run out of it.
So read a book by Ayn Rand, the Fountainhead, it's a, it's a good book.
And she came from communist Russia and she knew all about collectivism and she
was very, very happy to be in the United States, you know, cause there was a huge
difference.
I'm going to give you some words of wisdom.
I didn't write this, but if there's a good book,
there's a guy named Carl Sandberg and he says, this old anvil laughs at so many
broken hammers.
In other words, a lot of people may try to cut you down, but this old anvil laughs.
Okay.
All right.
In other words, that's, that's my idea of toughness to do what you want to do, do
the right thing, do the thing that's best for you.
And don't worry about criticism or rejection.
See what I mean?
You gotta, you gotta knock on a few doors.
You got to break a few eggs, but in this world, you want to be fulfilled.
You know, like you take Vince McMahon, the promoter of WWE, he didn't have success
in one day.
He had success daily, success daily.
However, listen to this, just like Alexander the great, he cried.
You know why he cried?
Cause there are no more worlds left to conquer.
He had conquered everything.
So he cried.
So I wonder if Vince McMahon wants to start the XFL football.
And because he's got no more worlds to conquer and he's just, he's done everything.
He's in the wrestling world.
He's done everything.
And now he wants to do this because I guess 10 years ago he failed in football.
Is he trying to do that again?
Yeah, he is.
And Trump was involved in it back then too.
Right.
He had a team in New Jersey and he had Herschel Walker and Herschel Walker
campaigned for him.
Okay.
You know, there's a lot of people that knew him before he had the audacity to
put an R next to his name.
Everybody used to love him, you know, in New York when he had a D next to his name.
Then he put an R next to his name.
All of a sudden he's a racist.
See what I mean?
In other words, here, here's the deal because he was always Democrat.
You're, is that what you're saying?
That he's always been a Democrat in New York City.
If you're not a Democrat, they'll run you over.
Right.
Okay.
But, um, anyway, it's just very, very difficult to be the president, but
hoping that he fails is very un-American.
Right.
Of course.
Omar is very, I didn't like it when Rush Limbaugh did it to Obama and I don't
like this.
Right.
In other words, um, and I'll tell you something too, I'm 64 years old.
You've got to listen to me.
I've done some good things in my life and some bad.
I've been some smart things and some not so smart things.
I've done some regrettable things.
I've done some things I were proud of and it never had any, it never had any
thing to do with who was in Washington DC, a Republican or a Democrat.
In other words, my mistakes were my mistakes.
My good things were my good things.
Nobody, because they were there, affected my life here.
So in other words, just do your thing and do your best and forget the rest.
That's my advice.
All right.
The genius has spoken.
You may not like it, but you must accept it because I'm the man.
I love it.
Thank you so much, Lanny.
That's been awesome, man.
Thank you.
Thanks, man.
