We're here in Gainesville, Florida, at UF, home of the Gators, and we're here at a student-only
lecture by Lilby the Base God.
It's his first time here.
It's one of few rare lectures he does at college universities around the country, and we just
drove three hours to get here, so we're going to see if we can scout some student IDs and
we're going to see if we can sneak in.
For the first lecture, I'm going to be welcoming Lilby the Base God.
We deserve the right to live.
We deserve the right to love.
But you know how my style is, and kind of my personality is, I'm very, uh...
Thank you.
Thank you.
You know, I like to segue about this.
A lot of things on my mind, you know, like I'm always switching up, you know, subjects,
because it's a lot of things that I do want to speak about.
And as you see, I do have a lot of notes for you guys that I personally wanted to talk about.
We're coming to about comparing yourself, you know what I'm saying?
Making sure you never try to compare yourself to someone's outside, you know?
So never compare your personal excellence in your inside and judge yourself for someone's exterior.
You know what I'm saying?
And what I mean by that is like, you know, because we all have our exterior shells or our personalities,
you know what I'm saying?
We're like, more, more, more, you know, how we represent ourselves.
But then we have our inside feelings.
And, you know, we all are a victim of judgment and prejudice and stuff like that.
But don't live for somebody else.
You know, if you think picking flowers and sitting at the tree is what makes you happy,
you know what I'm saying?
Like, do that.
You know what I'm saying?
I like taking long walks.
You know what I'm saying?
Yes.
And so, you know, I don't compromise it.
You know, really what it is, I love actually taking long walks by myself.
We're always figuring out, you know, what is our purpose of living?
You know, why are we here?
You know, trying to figure out what, you know, we are here for on this life, on this earth,
you know what I'm saying?
Definitely, for me, I feel like, first thing, let's realize the common that we have just
all being in here together, which is a beautiful thing.
We're all coming in here, you know, to hear me speak, and as well as to hear something new,
which is automatically, so everybody here can automatically be like, okay, we have something
to comment, because obviously, if you can't hear it tonight, you're obviously a forward
thinker, and you're cool, and you're all excited.
I love your makeup!
Thank you too.
I'm choosing to become an artist and an entertainer, as well as putting love through music,
because the core foundation of why you make music is because I know that music has the power
to connect people, to heal, to help, to invoke emotions.
It's an art form to me, and it's something that you study.
I'm inspired by life.
You know, I really take everything, just, and I soak it in, you know, this is music to me,
and I can get inspired by that, from that little sound, you know what I'm saying?
Like, everything I'm taking bits and pieces from, you know, and then it's like, and then
it's clingy, and it's like, I'm mad, but you know what I'm saying?
How many of you are afraid of artwork?
Not at all.
I know this is all because I'm a little physical artworker.
I had some time about it, you know what I'm saying?
But man, I just, I didn't deal with the, with the high-class name, or you know, you cook it.
I feel like I was doing a big thing, I'm like, yeah, I'm cooking, you know what I'm saying?
I'm not, I'm kind of ashamed of you, meat, you know what I'm saying?
And eating meat is, you know, I'm ashamed of you.
And I'm sensitive to people that do not live as well as, it's just, you know, I'm always just like,
man, God, sometimes I just wish, like, I wish I was just born with a set of different tools
You know what I'm saying?
With that, sometimes we are scared, you know?
I think, yeah, there's a lot of different levels of fear.
Fear of being rejected, fear of not being accepted.
Whatever.
I'm trying to hear it out, you know what I'm saying?
And yes, I'm just saying, I'm like,
I'm just saying, I follow 1.3 billion people on Twitter,
100,000 subscribers on my YouTube, you know, these different things where that's what it takes.
It takes time, you know what I mean?
It definitely doesn't have to go with that, especially if you're not making it like me,
where I'm not using these robots.
I'm not buying my followers, you know what I'm saying?
And I think that's it.
You don't want to do that anywhere, just be a Latin and then you don't really know the truth.
You don't know what's going on in business, you know what I'm saying?
You definitely want to know the truth, like when you got your followers and stuff like that,
you know, just work slower.
Be yourself, you know, take love to everybody that is a part of your network, you know?
So, if you have 73 people that follow you, I think that's extremely important.
That's 73 lives.
You know what I'm saying?
That's 73 lives.
That's 73 beautiful people, which will transfer into poor people, just with connection,
just before each other.
You know, I've always tried to find the message, you know what I mean?
Like find the message from the air, just find the message right before it.
What does this mean, you know what I mean?
And I'm telling you, next life is so much better.
Like, if you don't, because life, look, what is life?
That is the biggest, I think the biggest question ever.
And whoever can answer that can be the top of the top.
What is life?
How many people in here have people?
What?
Where they want to see themselves or, you know, where they want to be.
Congratulations.
How many people are still figuring out their goals in life and figuring out who they want to be?
What we come across is making sure that, once again, we don't compare ourselves to anybody in here.
The thing is, we don't want to compare ourselves to anybody.
Because we compare ourselves.
What do you do to make sure that you're comparing yourself to make yourself feel better?
Or you're comparing yourself to anyone out there?
I think the main thing is we're not trying to compare ourselves to anybody or anything.
But what is cool is to compare yourself to your past self.
You know what I'm saying?
Who you used to be.
What I did that I was like, man, you know, I definitely maybe a couple months ago, maybe like two months, two to three months ago.
Because, you know, he had been trying to do this extremely well on himself.
And being able to always have the power to do things that I know.
So, you know, it was like, I just, like, I'm just, you know what I'm saying?
I'm just extremely rare.
I'm just like, I don't know.
But, you know, I was feeling a little, you know, you know, when things kind of slowed down.
For me, once I started comparing myself to my old self, I got really happy.
I'm like, damn, I have accomplished some things.
And I'm not, you know, like, I don't feel bad.
I'm feeling good, you know what I mean?
I've never been with no parents, right?
And, you know, I started, when I do remember, I will write down my dream.
And then I will write down, when I wrote down what I accomplished that I was proud of.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, in my life.
And once again, he said, I am not about me.
So don't take it as like, dude, it's about shut up.
You know what I'm saying?
Don't take it as that.
You know, just take it.
I'm talking about all the way, because everybody has things to be happy about to accomplish in their life.
And I think you should write it down.
And you don't have it exterior made or have it somewhere where, you know, you can continuously write stuff
and you can remind yourself because I did that.
I was like, man, I've done some pretty legendary stuff.
You know what I'm saying?
And I was like, I'll forget about it.
I'll forget about it.
You know what I'm saying?
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, what else am I doing?
You know what I'm saying?
Man, as well.
You know what I'm saying?
So, you know, it's just like, man, continuously,
comparing yourself to your past, to yourself,
making sure that you don't compare your energy to someone's power.
We got to really just take advantage of that beautiful time in here.
Really hold on to this energy.
Really, once again, be that predator, that positive predator.
You know what I'm saying?
I'll be positive, you know what I'm saying?
And, you know, it's the people that are miserable.
You know, you can scare everybody and say oh, I see you're up here.
I see you from above.
That did, man, but what are you doing?
You know, and don't be scared to say what's up.
Even if you guys say what's up differently,
you might say hi like this.
You say hi like that.
It's still high.
You know what I'm saying?
Don't be scared, don't do that on me, because I'm weird, because I don't, you know, okay, hi, here, you know what I'm saying?
It's so weird.
Have you ever been acting that way?
Do you like to taste salty?
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know, like, I mean this, I'm just coming out with honey, you know what I'm saying?
I think I'm putting myself in my account, getting all the salty crap out there on the internet, and blood flow, you know what I'm saying?
Blood flow, you know what I'm saying?
Blood flow, you know what I'm saying?
It's something like that, you know.
From the bottle of water, from my hair, I got a whole bottle of water.
Thanks for this.
You're being like, talking to me right now.
Thank you.
Um, I kind of, for time sake, I was just asking Mark just another question.
Can you please cook for me?
Oh, thank you.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you, guys.
Yes, sir, yes, sir.
How are you doing, brother?
Great, how are you?
Yes.
I'm doing my hard Mark's painting, so I made you this custom little behalf, I'd like to give it to you.
I'll give it to you.
Woo!
Hi, guys, guys.
Hey, how are you doing?
I've been staring from the internet.
Hey!
So, you're really well known for reaching out with your friends, replying them on Twitter, DMing them on Instagram.
What is something important you've learned from these personal connections you've had with your friends?
You just got to make sure to try our best not to leave everybody behind.
Everybody has a story.
Everybody has power, you know?
Everybody, everybody's extremely powerful, and it's either, you know, we support them,
and we promote it, or, you know, we kind of just let it go, you know?
Getting from talking to everybody, everybody has a lot to offer, you know what I'm saying?
Really special, so that's what I mean.
I got two questions.
One, would it be alright with the staff and the officers if I came up and took a selfie with you?
Yeah.
And two, what is your current opinion on the public school education system?
I think definitely we should focus more on the arts.
I thank God.
First of all, I want to say thank you, Bayes God.
I love you.
How do you all remain positive in the face of rampant negativity, hate, unfortunate circumstances,
and in my personal case, depression?
Yeah, well, bless your heart.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, I definitely think, I think God knew what depression is.
That's very normal.
It's very human to feel different, to feel ooze, sweet, go up and down.
And I think the best way you can deal with it is making sure we control what we are taking,
whether you're watching, reading, cool or around, who are feeding the information of love.
Yeah, sometimes it's really hard because you know about the internet or specific websites or TV,
you know, this is like, you feel kind of stuck, you know what I'm saying?
You have to continue.
I think to go to the roots of what life is, and that's why I love to take walks.
I love to be inspired by just the air and the sky and the water and the ocean.
If you're going to do simple things in life, and make sure you continue with the simple things,
as well as stay focused on your major goals and short term goals,
but be continued with the simple things in life and strive for more for personal excellence.
Hey, Bayscott, I just want to thank you for coming out here.
I really appreciate it.
Really appreciate you following me on Twitter the other day.
Yes, sir.
I just wanted to ask you, what is it like working with the one and only Chance the Rapper?
Yeah, man.
And congrats to Chance the Rapper.
We are now currently in Washington, Colorado.
He was the first song artist.
But, you know, it was an amazing experience.
He's a real artist.
Just seeing him, you know, freestyle, being him freestyle, and seeing Chance really freestyle,
and sounding just amazing, he's just a real artist.
And I definitely appreciate his criticism.
And him as a rapper, I think he has some cool stuff to say.
And, you know, he's highly respected in the music game.
A lot of people love him.
And I'm definitely very happy to do something with him.
And, you know, it makes me feel good to go to this song.
It was great.
Thank you.
It was good, Bayscott.
What's up, sir?
What's up, sir?
Oh, no.
All right.
Good question, Courtney.
All right.
I just happen to be a pretty dope rapper myself.
I just started here.
I'm there.
I just wanted to see if we could kick those big bass freestylings.
Two months, two months.
Let's do this.
Yeah.
All right.
Check this out.
Check this out.
They can't stop me.
Nobody can kill me.
It is getting swanky.
I'm cooking like a little bee.
The thing in my head is I'm gonna drop it off.
Okay, little bee.
Go ahead.
Think of it with the bars.
You know, it's the best.
I feel like it helps to get numb that I'm rolling.
And we go, baby.
You know we got it.
I'm gonna keep it flow.
And I'm rollin' in the air
And we blowin'
You know we got it, I'ma keep it blowin'
And you know Lil V got that flavor
So forehead, let me see you chomp like a gator
You talked about goals, what is your goal?
You know I have a few of them, actually a lot of them
I think my major goal is to continue to spread love as much as I can
And to really help more people in more ways than just speaking about it
I really want to, you know, first of all, like what we're doing
But I really want to be physical about my helping
And just do everything that I can of my power to make people feel good
I think that's my biggest goal
And that's a goal, so I'm a pinpoint for anyone to be more specific
I mean, building a school, I think that's my thing I want to do
You know what I'm saying?
I think my favorite rapper
Is probably the motivated one of us in the world
Probably Lil V, too popular
Hey, what's up Lil V?
Hey, my name is Kevin Tanelko
And one thing that really stuck out to me was when you were talking about your uncle
And he said, why are you waiting for work?
What are some times that when you felt like you had a pit stop in life or anything wrong
Just felt like work got you through
Yeah, I think probably last year and this year was kind of like
My pit stop, like I'm not working on the same level that I was really used to as it was
I think when I had my neighbor, I should have him parking
How it's exploded when he's parking down in London
And that really kind of changed my situation
Yeah, I think to me, I really feel really different
Music is my source of happiness, you know, at the end of the studio, making art
That's what I love, that's where I feel like my purpose is
And I feel like that's, you know, so with me not feeling that as much about you too recently
I started feeling weird about my purpose in life and just questioning everything
What has gotten me through is really the love of people still being here for me
You know, stick with it, throughout this long time, even though I haven't been releasing as much music
And I haven't been used to it in the last couple years
What's up, little boss?
Hey, man, what's up?
I just want to thank you, not only your music, but the message you convey
Has gotten me through a lot of hard times and it's still continuing to get me through a lot of hard times
But my question is, you wrote your book Taken Over at the age of 19
Now I know you've accomplished a lot more since 19
Is there going to be another book on the way?
Yup, it is, I've already got the title already
You know, I've just been slowly but surely
You know, I've got a quick progress, I've got to do it
So maybe after this, I'm going to just get this started
Got the title?
I can't grab the title
I want to, I want to, but I tell you like this, man
The title is one of a kind that has been with me for years
So I know it's the right one, to be honest
I just can't wait to tell you this question, man
I have two questions for you
First one, my friend Darian wants to know why he called me back on Twitter since 2013
I probably, that's not right, I probably just have to see him
You know what I'm saying, if I have to see him, I just hear him
But my next question is, with all your beautiful gay music and mixtapes
So why not, what do you plan on releasing other than the Arm Gay album?
I did, so you know, and I appreciate that
You know it's crazy that Arm Gay was actually a mixtap
So I've never officially released, no, no, no
I haven't officially released an official album yet
Like everything in my career has been mixtapes
That's why it's really exciting
Like I'm definitely working on my official album
Like I've been working on that for about five or six years
So maybe, so what I'm doing right now is just focusing on getting some things together
And I'm focusing on some musical projects that I need to complete to get a gear for that
So I'm thinking this year, 2017, something you know, this year 2017
I'm going to work
Yeah, I think my core positivity has always been there
I think I just kind of made me a little weird during the teenage years
Where I was finding myself
But my parents always instilled positivity
You know what I'm saying, like she always instilled that
And I was always a happy person, you know, I was always happy
I think my situations were maybe kind of weird
And learning how to, like politics and surviving
And politics in school
You know, the class systems
That were even like in middle school, like elementary and high school
And like wanting to be a part of, you know, what was going on
And sacrificing, like, compromising my personality to like
Hang out with these, this group of people
And I learned a lot about myself
But I think the whole thing about it was
I always remained a happy person
I would like to know who you're voting for in the 2016 election
Thank you, thank you
Yeah, you know what I'm saying
I appreciate that I've come into, you know, I want to keep it real
I want Bernie Sanders
You started, you almost started the internet rap, you know, thing
You started the movement
You have been able to last so long in a period of time
Everything is a flash in the pan
You know, you have artists like, oh, so what's your shouting about all the time
Mentioning how everything, that rap is a big nap
You made it six, seven years ago
And I just wanted to know, like
What do you think is the biggest contributing factor
To you being able to last so long in the internet age
Just thinking, authentic, and we actually love the music
I love music and everything, and I question the support
I just love music, I love music
I support artists of all kinds
You know, I just love, you know
I mean, it spans, you know
Real street loud, to air France, Anthony Johnson, you know what I'm saying
It goes, like, real music has no, it is what I love
You know what I'm saying
Thank you, Base God
My question is more related to the marketing, the brand
Behind it'll be Base God
It's something that people have just rallied behind
People love you
And I just want to ask, how do you think you've been able to differentiate yourself
You know, people like Kanye, Kendrick, Jay Cole
They have a very different marketing technique
They're more, you know, they're very different
So how, what was your source of inspiration
When it came to your branding and your marketing as
Little Beat the Base God
You know, I'm just thanking that question
I just have a really unique approach to marketing and branding in general
And treating every person, like, love
Anybody that loves you, you know
It's just so exciting
I mean, if you've got two views, that's a big thing
If you've got 30 followers, that's huge
I mean, it just makes me sure that you continue to support
The people that support you
And, you know, show love and continue to, you know what I mean
I got one request to see if anybody wants to do it
I wanted to see it if I wanted to be on my staff
Yeah
So if that could say, I love you Little Beat
Thank you Base God, that would be cool
One, two, three
Little Beat the Base
What did it mean to you guys for him to come here today?
Everything
Everything
We drove here quite a ways and we love him
He's spread such a positive message to everybody
Whether you like Little Beat or not, he revolutionized the hip-hop game
Whether you agree with it or not, Little Beat is the man
He's the base God
But we're so happy to have Little Beat here, man
Little Beat is such a positive person
Amazing
And honestly, seeing Little Beat in person, meeting him, touching him
It's honestly changed my life
And now I want to do great positive things with Little Beat
It shows, you know, even when you're big, when you make it big
You're able to kind of come back and give back to the people
And kind of still contain and hold the same positive message
And stay true to yourself
And, you know, he just does his music for himself
He's like, he loves A does it because that's the way he wants to do it
So, you know, you can't do nothing but respect that
I wanted to come up
It's hot
It's hot
What's your rap name?
Hip-hop dude
To me, it means to have your mind open to creativity
To be open to every kind of rap there is
To really listen to a deeper message that he has to say
To be open to the silliness that is rap
Not take it too seriously and really just take the lyrics for what you want them to be
I've been a fan of Little Beat since Wontown
Since Little Beat was a major event
And people were saying, oh, Little Beat, he's wack
He's not serious, I go, that's the best part about it
He touched a lot of people's hearts, I think
He definitely had emotions going around the room
A lot of positivity, people opening up
It's just grateful, man
Little Beat
