I was really curious to ask you about this because have you watched all the videos?
I watched all the videos twice and I watched the response video and I watched the video
where that he just released the podcast where he and his buddy are all shooting, which he's
really just doubles down on the seven minute video, but I'm pretty sure his lawyer.
Can you fill me in, sum it up for me because I have no idea what you guys have been talking
about?
Do you want to do it on the podcast to give everybody a background?
Yeah, yeah.
Tell them.
Explain and lighten Shane on the coffees.
By the way, did you know coffee zilla has been on this podcast before?
I don't even know who coffee zilla is.
You know who told me?
Oh, sorry.
Okay.
Coffee Zilla was on here two years ago.
He's just this guy.
He's he lives in Texas and he's he has a YouTube channel where he does like little.
He does like what do you call them?
They're like, have you seen the YouTube videos, the videos on the there's certain channels
that will do like documentaries where they just take footage and tell a story.
They don't actually go film anything.
They just sort of like narrate a story or like a time over it.
Yeah.
They place like footage over it.
They basically narrate a story or explain something like scientific stuff or history
or whatever.
It's kind of like that, but for he used to have a different channel called coffee break
where he would do these like a long explainer educational videos and now he transitioned
to coffee zilla where he basically exposes scammers like Grant Cardone, Ty Lopez, those
kind of guys.
He's exposing big people.
And then now he just recently went on, well, about a month ago, he went on Lex Friedman's
podcast.
He's like the biggest podcasters on YouTube.
He went on his podcast and then I guess for the past year, he's also been working on this
Logan Paul scam, this crypto scam that he did.
So I guess he figured since he just went on low or he just went on Lex's podcast now
would be the perfect time to drop the Logan Paul documentary.
So he dropped one on him.
He dropped a documentary on Logan Paul where he's been investigating some like NFT project
that Logan Paul did called crypto zoo.
And you got to really watch it.
You can't just like, I can't really.
It's all a scam.
I can.
Sum it up.
It's a scam.
Matt can do it well.
But anyway, anyway, people who are listening, I want to hear it from a real con man's mouth.
People that are listening and watching, if you're familiar with the whole thing, the whole
documentary coffee, Zillabate made and what Logan Paul did.
My question to Matt is with Matt, are we on?
Yeah, we've been rolling.
My question to you is after watching it and after watching it over and over again, how's
my hair?
Your hair is great.
Okay.
Hair line is a one.
Always.
I need hair.
I'm playing so bad.
Your hair line is better than his.
I'm going to start to go fund me.
You think I could get there?
How much money do I need?
You're letting your hair grow out.
That's what I've been doing too, trying to hide the corners.
Yeah, we're trying to hide.
We got deep corners, Matt.
How much would it cost to touch my corners up?
Probably seven grand.
Seven grand.
Each surgery is seven grand, but if you have to, if you localize like one area, but most
likely they would go through and feather in some, just thicken it all around.
What's the difference between what you have in plugs?
Mine are the individual follicles.
Like their plugs are like a grouping of let's say 20 or 30.
So it's a little, you know, it's like an eraser head.
And it's a little chunk, like, you know, but they can kind of fix that.
So yours is more is like yours is more expensive.
They go hair by hair.
I don't know.
Like, I don't know what plugs cost.
So I'm assuming mine's more expensive.
It certainly definitely sounds more expensive.
Plugs are what you do, like in the back to fill in.
No, plugs are what they used to do.
They don't do them.
Like when they first came out with this, they were doing plugs.
That's a huge technology.
Right. So then as they got, they were like, you know, but of course people were like,
hey, he just got this done like it's dull hair.
It looks like he just got it done.
It looks. So is it possible that I'm calling my lawyer?
Oh, that's horrible.
Yeah, you can't say that.
Yeah. Um, what?
OK, what Logan Paul?
Yeah, yeah, Logan.
Anyways, yeah, Logan Paul.
So my question was for you being one of the most notorious scammers in American history,
the most prolific.
What is your read on Logan Paul?
I mean, do you think that he really?
I mean, do you think that he intentionally just wanted to do this for money
and and was scamming, knew he was to read those texts?
Yes, I mean, I mean, the text.
My read is and what's your read on his response?
You think he's innocent or guilty?
Oh, no, he he he, you know, he's, I think in his mind, it's not a scam.
He and his mind, he's probably deluded himself into thinking,
I'm not a criminal.
It's not a scam.
But if you lay it out, like,
you know, if it walks like a duck and it quacks like a duck, like, you know,
it's a duck, like, I understand you can sit here and say, oh, oh, he was in a scam.
I'm not a criminal.
Stop. What you did was you, you did.
You ran a pump and dump scheme.
You pumped up, you misled people.
That you to buy something that you were going to artificially inflate
and then you were going to sell off your tokens and you were going to dump it.
Like, once you and you say that in the text,
you know, you say in the text that we're going to all OK, we're going to buy up
whatever it was, you know, 40,000 tokens.
We're going to buy up 40,000 tokens before
without releasing it, without releasing.
So we're going to release it, but we're not going to notify anybody
so that we can buy them up.
And then we're going to we're going to hold them for so many months
and then we're going to sell them, but we cannot sell them
if it affects the market by more than 3 percent.
So if the if the tokens drop by more than 3 percent, we can't sell.
And then over the next so many months, over this many months,
we can sell this many, this many months, we can sell this many.
But we can only sell them as long as they don't affect the market more than 3
percent, you are artificially keeping the tokens high.
And the only reason to do that is so that you can sell off
the remaining tokens you have at a higher value and keep in mind
he can't sit here and say, well, I just want to make sure everybody makes money.
No, you're the one that owns all the tokens.
So if I'm a developer and I've built all these houses that I put
$50,000 in and then I artificially create a bunch of sales
of 50 houses at 300 or four at $400,000.
I've got 50 grand in them and I buy them all for 400,000.
So the market and everybody that looks at the market thinks they're selling
for 400,000. So then they come in and they buy up those houses.
Well, I know that I've got 50,000 in each house.
And maybe I want to make a healthy profit of $20,000.
I know I could sell these for maybe let's say 70 or 100.
That's reasonable, but I'm selling them for 400,000.
The reason the way I'm going to know I can get 400,000 is I'm going to create
these artificial sales that make everybody think they're worth 400,000.
You're manipulating the value of those houses.
When I did it, it was fraud.
Right. OK, but he those weren't they weren't creating artificial sales for their NFT.
He was just promoting it and people no no pre buying it. Right.
No, he some people did buy it.
Yes, he also sold it sold off some of those tokens.
So he did have people that were investing sell anything.
No, no, he didn't sell anything. OK.
But he bought them.
So he they released like let's say they were and I forget the exact
let's say was 40,000, 40,000 tokens.
He and his buddies had their wallets, right?
They created their crypto wallets and then they went out
and they started buying them up as quick as possible.
Well, remember the one guy I think it was was it
Zach or Eddie or Crypto King,
one of them created like five additional wallets and they started buying a bunch too.
Let Logan didn't know about that.
And Logan was they then they start having this argument in through through texts
like, hey, what just happened?
Like what's going on?
Like and it becomes like this whole like, oh, yeah, it looks like a bot
just bought up a bunch of our our tokens and they're like, well,
how do we keep that from happening?
So they start going back and forth and obviously
Logan starts to Logan and Jeff, they start to realize whoever was on it with him.
He starts to realize like, I think you you bought a bunch of these things.
Nobody knew that nobody else knew but us that we were doing this.
Like there's like four of us and nobody knew about four or five people.
How is it that a bunch of other people started buying?
So then that guy ends up dumping a bunch of that money.
Right. And he ends up making what? Six million estimated six million dollars.
Now, somebody else, I think I want to say it was either it was Eddie
that made one point seven or was it Zach?
Is it Eddie? I believe Eddie.
So one of the guys who scammed the New York, the New York Yankees owner.
Yeah. So this guy created a whole fake personality, a whole fake person.
He basically lied about everything.
Yeah, he fabricated and not just fabricated his entire existence.
Not like a, hey, I went to MIT and I've had a really good run.
And I've done a little here and a little there.
No, he's talking about like I I was on the team that helped the New York Yankee
or no, not the New York Yankees, the Philadelphia Eagles.
Yeah, then I helped them win the Super Bowl and then he's like
and keep in mind that like the Yankees ended up believing it.
And then the owner of the Yankees ended up hiring him, I think.
Or and then it was like, I may be getting some of this wrong.
And then also like the was it the Mormon Church hired him?
Like all these like all these like billionaires are hiring him
and they're but they're buying into this.
The military.
Yeah, the government hired him.
Right. And none of his true.
Oh, he said he said he was like CIA, too.
He said he worked for like the CIA.
He also said he was an orphan.
Like he's got a whole thing going on.
He's he's nuts. He said an orphan.
He said he was an orphan.
But then there was like other documented interviews where he talked about,
oh, there was a video with him and his mom together.
Like, how are you an orphan when you just have a video of you and your mom?
Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, this guy's like the emperor.
Yeah, he's he's not.
So here's what happens is basically basically Logan Paul put together
a cryptocurrency called called Crypto Zoo, where you were going to buy eggs.
They were going to like mate or something and hatch other eggs and you would combine
eggs and they'd hatch and you'd have some kind of an NFT project.
Right. It's a silly NFT project.
And here's what kills me, too, is he he does this whole thing when he's kind
of semi promoting it, getting the hype up where he's like, it's an amazing game.
And the kids love it.
Our developers, kids can't stop playing it.
It's amazing.
It's so much fun.
Who said that Logan Paul Logan.
Well, come to find out like the game has never worked.
There is no game.
So you're lying.
Then he then he turns around.
He's like, it's going to be a great investment for your kids.
And what's wouldn't it be amazing if they say that is going to be a great
investment? Oh, absolutely.
He says, he says, wouldn't it be amazing if your kids first introduction
to to the blockchain was Crypto Zoo?
Like that's amazing.
And you can make money doing it.
I'm so excited.
I put so much time into this.
Like my whole life is dedicated to this right now.
The last six months, me and the whole team, we spent over a million
dollars so far in development.
Bro, he sold it like that.
Oh, it's it's over the top ridiculous.
And then so so the whole thing implodes, right?
Yeah.
Like in the end, one guy takes off, he takes off.
He holds one of the developers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, he holds the stock or stock.
He holds the code hostage.
He won't give it up until he gets paid because Logan hasn't paid him.
So they finally, I think they paid him, they get it back.
They end up releasing it.
And after they release it and it doesn't work, by the way, doesn't work.
The game, the game doesn't work.
Nothing that he said worked, worked.
You're not nobody's people are and people spend a ton of money.
People have bought like two hundred thousand, a half a million,
two hundred, a hundred thousand that they're all over the place,
but they've spent thousands of dollars.
So we're talking about, let's say on an on, let's say,
like Coffeezilla ends up talking to probably five or six people
and those guys total at least a few million.
So if so, if that's just a few and let's say several thousands
of people probably bought this.
So thousands of people bought it, let's say on the low end, this guy,
these guys sold and they people bought.
Ten million.
Now, the market cap was supposed to be 20, 40 million.
I don't know that that's what it went up to.
I don't know that that's what they got, but let's say people bought
in and it's roughly reasonably ten million dollars reasonable.
So let's say ten million.
Logan's trying to say, and then Logan goes silent.
Now, I think I know why he went silent, but he goes silent,
goes silent for a year.
But in the meantime, what ends up happening is he basically is trying to say,
like these other guys who are in it with me, they sold theirs and they made money.
I didn't sell mine and Jeff didn't sell his.
Jeff is his manager, Jeff is his manager.
So he's saying, so it's not a scam because I didn't benefit.
He didn't make any money.
Really?
That's so if you go in the bank and they give you dive, they give you fake
dollars and you run out and you drop the bag.
You didn't rob the bank.
Great, great perspective.
Or if you, I saw another comment that said, if you organize a bank heist and you
have three guys that are going to go in there and you're just the getaway driver,
but they go in, they get all the money and then they rob you of the money they robbed.
All of a sudden, you're right.
That's funny because I use that example.
I was talking about this and I use the example only I use the example of this is like,
this is like saying, going to the police and saying, listen, I know a guy who drives
a getaway car for bank robbers.
And they go, well, how do you know that?
He goes, I'm robbing the bank.
That's Logan Paul.
Like that's what's happening now.
He's saying, these bastards, they this and they that and they, but you were in charge
of the whole thing.
You went in the bank, you organized the whole thing.
So now you're saying, yeah, but I didn't make any money.
So, uh, it's not a scam and I didn't expect to scam anybody and I didn't sell anything.
Let me tell you here.
I'll tell you right now why he didn't scam anybody.
Here's why he probably, listen, I'm, I'm super sure because there's really only one,
one scenario that answers all of those questions.
And it's funny because his podcast came out and he actually says it in his podcast.
So he says a little bit, right?
So he released his video, his seven minute bullshit.
It's everybody else's fault.
I'm a good person video that doesn't address any of the scumbag things that he
said in those texts, doesn't address any of that.
Just says coffee, Zilla's a, a hack.
Can we walk?
Can you pull up the, his response video so bad, bro?
I think we could sit there and we could watch that one.
That one's kind of short.
Coffee Zilla.
I watched her three part series called investigating Logan Paul's biggest scam.
And like many on this platform, you have successfully used my name for views and money.
While your work used to be impartial, your addiction to clicks has clouded your
judgment and you've made very real errors with very real repercussions.
Coffee, you took a shot at my reputation.
So in this video today, I'm going to be defending myself with facts, something
that you have gotten in the habit of twisting as you continue to morph from an
investigator to a gossip channel.
You see coffee Zilla tried to work with law enforcement in the past, but his work
was described as not anchored to truth and often speculative.
He is a lopsided journalist with an agenda and he's nothing more than the key
star of crypto and finance.
But as opposed to just telling you, I'm going to show you some of the core
discrepancies that I caught in coffee Zilla's investigation.
Coffee, you interviewed the developer who stole all the in cause.
So listen, so I watched another video where the guy calls or text, he reaches out
to, um, the coffee Zilla coffee Zilla said the thing about law
enforcement, he said, I've never tried to be work with law enforcement.
He said the only time I've ever spoken with law enforcement is when they
contacted me to ask me for, um, documents related to one of my investigations.
He has, so I don't know what law enforcement he's talking about.
I've never tried to work with law enforcement.
Like, so million.
So he's now, he's now Logan Paul is now doing the same stuff that he's blaming
coffee or accusing coffee Zilla of, even though coffee Zilla, as far as I can
tell, did an amazing job and he never really says anything.
He just provides the evidence and lets you make up your mind.
Yeah, I keep on code.
Fleck to Switzerland and held at hostage for a million dollars.
Well, his name is Zach Kelling.
Surely as the internet detective that you proclaimed to be, you would know
that he spent time in prison for multiple felonies, one for aggravated robbery,
armed robbery at a liquor store and the other surprise obstructing the lead.
Where does it say armed robbery at a liquor store?
Go back.
Can you just, can you go back like one second?
Yeah.
So what part about that explains armed robbery at a liquor store?
I didn't understand that part.
Is he just, is he getting this from somewhere else?
It's just, he's just, yeah, it's obvious.
He's getting it from a level nine, whatever that is.
Okay.
Yeah.
He's just saying he played, it looks like he's guilty probation.
One year, one count, whatever.
You got six months.
What's so funny is, oh, here, here it says, it says obstruction, right?
Is that obstruction legal process?
And the other one says felony level nine.
So, but here's the thing, like he's, he once again, bashing coffeezilla for using
this guy.
Well, this is the guy you hired.
Right.
Like, sorry, I didn't, I didn't put this guy in the mix.
You did.
Yes.
That's a very good point.
And who else do you talk to?
Like when the cops go in and they raid a house and they arrest a bunch of drug
dealers and then those drug dealers cooperate against each other and they
have to testify, like you have to deal with criminals.
And when you're investigating, uh, investigating a crime, like a scam,
like I have to talk to the scam artists because the decent people that work at
the church weren't involved.
So I can't, I can't go talk to decent citizens because the decent citizens
weren't involved in your scam, Logan.
Right.
This is the guy that you had running your scam.
I keep going.
Or, and the other four surprise obstructing the legal process.
I can see why you kept him anonymous.
Who will be calling Zee here.
I guess among many things, it doesn't surprise me that he lied about having
30 engineers and a $50,000 a week burn rate.
Which side note is how this delusionist landed on the million dollar
code ransom, but it turns out he only had three engineers.
Wouldn't someone with journalistic integrity know their credible source had
not only an agenda, but a fondness for orange jumpsuits?
Or did you just hear what you wanted to hear and move it on?
Cause even if you're lying to yourself, Stephen, you still have to believe it.
And I know what you're thinking, what type of idiot would work with an
unsavory individual like Zach Kelly?
I guess that's what I get for trusting the team that I relied on to vet and
manage Eddie's hiring process, who has turned out to be a professional conman
that I have since learned full billionaires, the Mormon church, the owner
of the New York Yankees, and now me and surely you knew Emilio, the gentleman
who was supposed to let his tie look.
So he tried to like play it like, Oh, well, the guy scammed the Yankees.
He scammed these people and then he scammed me.
Here's the thing, the team that the team hired, the team would be your manager
who hired, or the team is the people that you put together that.
So you're blaming the imaginary team that you have that picked these idiots.
But you picked the team.
Like he takes no responsibility at all.
Like this is such a scum.
This nobody would tell you to put this out.
Except for a lawyer who was telling you, do not put out a video
where you accept responsibility.
Yeah, don't do it.
Like you can get sued and if you don't get sued, the very least, most likely
what's happening is I think Logan Paul is probably cooperating with the
authorities or he's in what's called a pretrial intervention because I think
if the U.S.
Attorney looked into this or the FBI or whoever's looking into it right now.
And obviously somebody's looking to he always mentioned several times that
somebody's looking into it into this.
So if they look at those texts, they know you were running the whole thing.
They know you're running up and down.
So either they're saying we won't prosecute you if you cooperate or they're
saying we're going to prosecute you, but you can do a pretrial intervention
if you make it right.
So you have to do one of two things, make everyone whole again, pay everybody back.
Or you have to make sure that this product is delivered.
And that's why at the end of this, he's like, he's so positive that, oh,
it will be delivered.
I'll bet because if it's not delivered, you're looking at yourself in a prison.
That's why he's positive.
It'll be if I have to learn how to code myself, less last dollar he's got on it.
Absolutely.
Because it's the only thing that makes sense.
One, there's an investigation.
So all this falls apart.
So all this, this whole thing falls apart.
First thing you do when you realize these guys are selling everything off.
They stole millions of dollars that it's all scammed and it doesn't work.
What do I do?
I go to my lawyer.
I make at least half a million dollars a month.
What, who do I, what do I do?
I go to my, my lawyer.
Hey, man, listen, this is what's going on.
I'm a little freaked out.
Here's what's happening.
I, there's a guy investigating.
It's, it's, it's, here's what happened.
He tells him and he says, okay, did you sell anything?
And he goes, no, he goes, don't sell anything.
And so what does Logan do?
He says, Jeff, we can't sell anything.
So we're going to go to the US attorney.
I didn't sell anything and it looks bad.
Right.
Can't, can't, you can't dump.
You can't, he's trying to say, it's not a pump and dump or I would have dumped.
Right.
Okay.
Then he says, then the lawyer's going to say, let me go to the US attorney.
Let me tell them what's going on.
Tell them you weren't a part of it.
You just found out you immediately went to them.
They go to them, they then launch an investigation.
They ask the FBI or someone to investigate.
That doesn't happen right away.
That's a year long process, at least.
So in the meantime, Logan, don't talk about it.
Don't sell.
Don't do nothing.
Don't do nothing while they investigate.
Now they most likely come up with an agreement where they say, look, if they
think he's involved, which there's no way they can't, they're going to say, you
got two choices, make everybody whole or deliver on the product.
You know, or you can sell all your stuff right now or not sell it.
And we're going to, we're going to arrest you.
You're going to go to jail.
Like it's at least $10 million.
You're going to, you're going to do some time.
For $10 million.
You're doing some time, no matter pretty much whoever you are.
Right.
So that's to me, that is the only scenario that really makes all of this makes sense.
And don't do what every professional out there would tell you, which is take
responsibility, you'll look better.
Don't do that.
You can't do that.
You have to say it wasn't my fault.
Blame it on the guys that are being investigated.
I'm sure Logan's being investigated, but Logan's already worked a deal to
skirt that whole investigation of him being involved.
I'm working with you.
We're on the same team.
Yeah.
He's trying to get in front of it.
Of course, but he can't like that.
Listen, anybody would tell you your best bet is to own up to it.
Cause five years ago, Logan got into some trouble, you know, this, right?
Like he, so five years ago, he dresses up like in, in like a kimono and like a,
a like kind of like suicide force thing.
And like he, he then comes out, like he's getting canceled.
People hate him.
It's all, everything turns against him.
So what does he do?
He immediately comes out and says, I'm, I'm sorry.
Like I messed up.
I, you could tell, like I watched that video.
Like I genuinely looked at him and thought, this is a guy who's terrified.
He's going to lose everything.
He genuinely is sorry.
He's freaking out.
Yeah.
And so then he kind of turned around for the next few years.
Then he got cocky.
He probably started surrounding himself with people that are, yes, man,
you're wonderful.
You're great.
Everything you do is wonderful.
And so then he starts just thinking he can do whatever he wants,
which is how he's behaved the last few years.
And then you end up with this.
Sorry.
Go ahead.
I old invest in a cryptocurrency was allegedly responsible for two rug
pools before you interviewed him.
So either you missed that or you knew it and failed to let the public know why?
Because it was a clear sign that he was also untrustworthy.
You seemed pretty excited when the guy told you that he couldn't hatch the eggs.
Wait, you can't even hatch.
No, I'm telling you, it's just a picture.
You're kidding.
You can't hatch.
You're kidding.
You can't hatch.
You can't hatch.
Yeah.
One second of research would prove that to be false, as you can definitely hatch
eggs and even breed your animals.
Click on that.
Oh, we got a duck.
And as you pointed out in your fine print, crosshatching was available on
ETH at one point, but you perpetuated the opposite as truth with your chest out.
Basically, nothing worked.
And by the way, guy, almost all NFTs are just pictures.
Sonny, it's just a picture.
And surely a real internet detective would not break criminal and civil laws
in trying to get information, right?
So why have you allowed the illegal recording of Jeff's phone call without his
permission and then more like an internet criminal posted online?
Now, although you didn't verify any backgrounds, substantiate any.
What do you think about that?
OK, here you know what that, first of all, so.
He OK, so in Texas, I'm sure you watch the videos like in Texas, it's a one
party state where I don't have to tell you.
I know it's being recorded.
I don't have to tell you it's being recorded.
The problem is, is that most likely Jeff was in California and California is
a two party state.
OK, so both parties have to agree.
Here's my problem with that.
Him mentioning this at all.
It's irrelevant to it's like saying that they raided my house.
The cops raided my house and they found they found a meth lab.
And then I say, wait a second, on the search warrant, you got the address
wrong and you never should have been able to raid my house.
Oh, OK, so you didn't have a meth lab, right?
Like it's illegal to it's illegal to record somebody and put it out there.
Motherfucker, you're a scam artist, right?
Your little technicalities don't fucking change that.
But you could use it in court or something.
Could he? Yes, he could.
No. Oh, what that? Yeah.
He could use it in court.
But the problem is coffee didn't lie to anybody.
He didn't lie to the audience.
He may he may have put his neck out there and risked doing this illegally,
recording his voice and publishing it.
That that could be illegal.
But the point is he didn't lie.
He didn't. That that wasn't a deceitful part of the overall piece of journalism.
Yeah, the spirit is the spirit of the investigation is still the same.
Yes, right. Like this doesn't change anything.
Is coffee, Zilla in trouble?
You're not going to jail.
It's probably not even a mist.
It's probably not even a felony.
It's probably a misdemeanor.
Yeah, like if it's anything and I don't know any governing body
that would even go out and charge him with anything, they'd be like,
OK, what's my maybe fine, right?
It's not like, look, it's not like I.
It's not like I secretly videoed my girlfriend or recorded my girlfriend
or videoed my girlfriend and I having sex and put it out on the internet.
Right. That's not what's happening here.
You didn't record Hulk banging your wife. Right.
Exactly. Not that. Yeah.
Anyway, it's just like he is trying.
He is trying to just like compile as many negative things he possibly can.
He's trying to deflect as much shit as and bring up as many other people as possible.
You know, it's funny, too, as he mentions here,
where I think I don't know if it was the last guy where he talks about like this guy
who says is, you know, his kid invested in this.
Like you were you were promoting this to kids.
Right. Keep going. Keep going. That's coming up.
Evidence took multiple criminals words as truth and broke laws.
You still publish the defamation.
However, unlike you, the blockchain doesn't lie.
So let's highlight some things that you did point out.
Crypto King Jake stole six million dollars.
True or not, we had already removed him from the team
when we realized he was a bad actor and his motives were purely financial.
Conman Eddy, lead developer, stole 1.7 million.
True or not.
When we learned he was a bad actor as well, he was immediately removed from the team.
While myself and Jeff sold nothing and made nothing as verified
through investigation and the blockchain.
Jeff, Logan's manager, to my knowledge, never sold.
Neither did Logan Paul.
I repeat, Jeff and I made no money and will never make any money on crypto zoo.
In fact, we only lost money trying to pick up the pieces.
As has been the case with dozens of crypto.
By the way, you understand that in the text, they say,
we're going to all go in and buy up everything and hold it for six months.
Well, within six months, you know, everything's falling apart.
You can't sell.
You've spoken with your lawyers that you planned on it.
You know, there's a criminal investigation.
You were told not to sell like, don't act like you did it because I'm a good guy.
I could have made 30 million dollars.
You're not. You're not a good guy.
You got scared and you got told what to do.
Yeah, like, don't act like you did it because you're an ethical person.
I read that because he's a good guy.
I read all the text. You're a scumbag.
I know scumbags.
I spent 13 years around scumbags.
Would you say you were a scumbag?
I'm a scumbag.
That's what I'm saying.
It's like a.
It takes one to know.
I was I was actually, you know, I don't want to.
I don't want to get this demonetized, but it's like, you know,
it's like a sex offender saying, wow, you're sick.
Like if a sex offender says you're sick, you've got a problem sick as fuck.
Like that's an issue.
Like this is me. I'm a scumbag and I'm telling you what you did.
That's a scumbag move.
Listen, but I get it.
Like if it had worked like nice scam, you fucked over a good
100,000 of your followers made millions and you made millions
like good for you, bro. Nice scam.
Yeah, but you couldn't even pull it off.
The scammers are turning on it.
There's no there's no honor among thieves.
Yeah, you're all victims.
So he should have known that.
And because he just didn't even work.
He just did like Dink Doink or something.
Some Dink Doink chip before or before this one.
I said chip, whatever.
Anyway, where he made like six million dollars on that
and promoted the whole thing like it was this other guy's thing.
And it really was him.
He's he's buying the whole thing.
Coffee Zilla just did one on that.
I keep going.
Crypto and NFT projects.
The space is unfortunately ripe for bad actors to infiltrate
projects that start with even the best intentions.
Jake, the snake is no longer affiliated with Crypto Zoo.
And we hope the money he reappropriated was worth ruining his reputation.
Con man Eddie is being investigated by a higher authority that I cannot speak on.
As you can imagine, I was not cleared from legal to discuss much of this,
including the legal process being undertaken and the criminal investigations
going on during the fallout.
But I do appreciate you calling out that rats under my nose stole the game code,
millions of dollars and left Jeff and I abandoned with no team and knives in our back.
But even after 12 months of work,
you've still managed to overlook one crucial piece of information.
See, even though I've said it's coming so many times,
you've assumed that Crypto Zoo isn't being made.
Who are you to decide when the development timeline ends?
I got everything stolen from me and our community.
Stop promoting publicly.
As soon as I knew the extent of I mentioned, I just took all you already launched it.
It didn't come out.
You set the date.
You said, hey, we're launching.
You launched it.
It came out.
It doesn't work like it doesn't work.
Like you're telling me to say when the deadline right, right?
I didn't say you said you set the fucking deadline and it doesn't work.
And not just that.
You've had all this time to go out and get a team, put it together, make it work.
Like this isn't difficult.
It doesn't take a million dollars.
I feel like somebody could have pulled this off.
I think what he's trying to say is what Coffey was saying was that Logan had
already he's given up on it now.
But what Logan is trying to say right now is, no, we are still currently
working on this, trying to fix it, trying to make it better.
But here's, and that's what he also said in his podcast.
Like, yeah, there's just no way.
It's, it's so.
Keep going.
All of the heat on social and you still published a defamatory hit piece
fully knowing I was innocent just so you could enrich yourself in your
$10 million studio sharp, but deeply unethical, dangerously misleading and illegal.
I suggest you use the money you got from pumping your Patreon to hire a good
lawyer. You're going to need it.
And maybe we could have talked about this if you had reached out to me personally,
not my manager, Jeff, who is not me, me, Steven.
But the first time you did was on Christmas Eve after you released your series
so you could rely on false statements and unreliable people used recklessly.
The subject line was third request for comment.
Yeah, not quite.
This will be my third time reaching out to you and your team.
The first two times were through your manager, Jeff.
The first two times were through your manager, Jeff.
OK, so the last time on Christmas Eve after the fact was to me, you have
a funny way of twisting things.
And I also noticed you left out that part on Twitter.
Why hide that?
Trust me, crypto zoo is coming.
I will make damn sure of it.
Stop, stop.
Honestly, he's going to go to jail.
So look, so listen, like, who else do you go through?
Like, no, no offense.
That's the point of having a man.
That is the right.
That is the definition of a man.
That's what you do.
That's like me saying you you we tried to reach out to you three times
and me saying, well, how how we called your secretary through your secretary's
answer your phone.
Like that's that's the available number.
That's the number we've got that your managers who I talked.
Are you telling me that your manager never told you that I called?
Right.
His manager is with him every day in fire.
Jeff, Jeff, Jeff didn't turn to him and say, bro.
If Jeff didn't say, bro, this dude's called me twice.
I talked to him.
I think he was recording me.
Yeah, it's bad.
You got to talk to him.
We got to shut this down.
No, no, the lawyer said not to talk to anybody like I'm going to.
And then this way you keep fielding the calls and I'll be able to say he never
reached out to me for contact, you know, or for a quote like it's stupid.
It's so childish.
It's like I'm going to take my ball and go home now.
Is what are you doing, bro?
Keep going.
Sucks that after years of personal reform, going through trials and tribulations
and busting my ass to evolve into a person that I can say I'm actually proud
of, you led the charge to drive and monetize a narrative telling millions of people
that I'm a fraud or I tried to scam my audience.
That is patently false.
This video is mainly for my fans and anyone who's on the fence that I hope I
can help understand a situation that is tremendously complex, but has been over
simplified for both views and clicks.
And lastly, coffee, Zilla.
I now know your motives with this clout and money.
Good for you, but also your, your slime is with this camera.
I'm not going to come on any of your podcasts.
If you want to come on impulsive and talk about this, that's fine.
And from the ceiling, what is it?
I don't understand a little one on one.
If not, we're going to handle this ourselves while we continue to build
crypto zoo and I'll see you in court.
And then this part, watch, play the end.
He honestly, you know, he should have put.
This is the worst part 2023 slash 2024.
Then he should have an ellipsis.
So, you know, dot, dot, dot, dot, maybe.
Yeah.
What do you think this video, this is that a good look for him or no?
Oh, no, I think I've done this or no, no.
He, he genuinely should have just come out and said, look, you know, I'm
currently trying to pay everybody back.
I messed up.
Here's what, and just been honest, like, here's what happened.
He goes to jail if he does that though.
I mean, then you're admitting guilt, right?
I think that lawyers are always, they're always don't talk, don't talk, don't talk.
And most likely what ended up happening with this one is he probably said his
lawyer probably told him, absolutely do not come out with this.
And he said, I'm going to.
Yeah.
So you can either review it and help me, you know, or I come out without, and he
said, okay, we'll do it and I'll review it.
But I want you to know that I don't think you should come out with it at all.
And most likely that's what happened.
Or he came out with it because the indictments have come out and his role
in the whole thing has, you know, has been basically ended.
And so he feels comfortable coming out with it at this point.
So, you know, these other guys could have been indicted.
And then the, you know, they may not release the indictment or arrest
anybody for months.
They have to locate them.
They have to, you know, so I've known guys that were indicted.
And then three years later, they were arrested.
So it's not, and it's not like, oh, I heard that one time.
No, no, I know dozens of guys that were indicted and they didn't
arrest them for years.
So I think that I think, I think it's a horrible look.
I think he should have just come out and been honest, but I don't even think
this guy knows what honest is.
I mean, if you watch like his videos, he's so jumps on every
trend that's out there.
He's so overly trying to be woke, you know, like, what do you mean?
Well, I mean, like, like, I was going to be woke.
Have you?
I like, what was the guy?
He's hating on Andrew Tate.
Yeah, he's hating on anybody.
He's on every trend.
So what's the guy that came out and was wearing a dress?
You know what I'm talking about?
Like he came out like he's, he came out and he was wearing a dress or something.
I forget and, and he came and Andrew was like, came out and he's like, yeah,
I think that's gangster, bro.
Like I think what he did was like, I think he definitely should have done that.
Like he was like, are you serious?
Like, what are you doing?
Like, what are you talking about?
Like he's, he's very much trying to be middle of the road or to the left as
much as he can to try and make everybody happy and placate to what he believes
his fan base is.
I mean, you know, where the truth is, I don't even think he's a scumbag.
Yeah, he's a scumbag.
I don't even think he knows who he is anymore.
No, I don't think so either.
And ambition is a hell of a drug.
Right.
And this is the thing about losing money.
He's in the WWE now.
People have forgotten about the forest suicide thing now.
And he's kind of like risen to he fought Floyd Mayweather in a boxing match
and technically, I mean, he lost, but he didn't get knocked out by him.
I mean, he went a long time with Floyd Mayweather, which is like crazy.
And he's a fucking YouTube kid.
And him and his brother are like on top of the world right now.
He's like at the peak of his career right now.
But there's a lot of people that would say, well, right.
So there's no reason for him to do this.
Right.
But the truth is he started it thinking he was just going to make a bunch of money.
Yeah, greedy.
Never thought it was going to go wrong.
And now it's gone wrong, you know.
Yeah.
And now he's trying to tiptoe the line.
Right.
When you have that much money and you have that much fame and you have all
those people working for you and all these people coming to you for these
business opportunities, like you don't have time to vet all that.
You just want to do your podcast and make your videos and do your boxing matches.
Like who has the time?
Like he doesn't have the time or care to pay attention.
I mean, if you're like the right thing to do for him is just ignore all that
bullshit and focus on the things that you understand and that you know how to do.
It's having all these this fucking team of people that you don't know who the
fuck they are that are supposed to be making these million dollar NFT projects.
Like, I don't know.
I see how you can easily be blinded by ambition and just not pay attention and
have this shit go off the rails like this.
But the problem is now like the way he's responding to it all.
I'm just trying to basically be a dick.
He just comes up as a dickhead on here.
Just trying to call him names.
You're the you're the Keemstar of fucking YouTube.
Yeah, it's con man, Eddie.
Yeah, it's you gave everybody a nickname.
He noticed that I was talking to Julian.
Julian thinks that Julian thinks that that coffee did fuck up by not trying to
contact him directly because now I guess he found his actual cell phone number
and sent him a real text.
Right.
But I mean, like, how do you get in touch with him?
And not just that.
I think that's what I said.
I think that he on Twitter or something, he had like blocked him on Twitter.
Right.
So you've blocked me.
I reached out to your manager.
Like, honestly, I don't know what else do you want to do?
Yeah, honestly, I made an attempt.
The manager, you knew there was an investigation.
The manager counts.
He talked to the manager.
You talk to his manager multiple times.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You knew like that.
That whole thing.
And then he doesn't he doesn't address the pump and dump.
He doesn't address any of it.
So all the things that really make you look bad.
You didn't even say shit.
No, and you didn't take any responsibility.
He blamed it on the team.
Who is the team?
The team is Jeff.
Yeah, but you can't really blame anything on Jeff.
You can't really talk bad about Jeff because you probably need Jeff to back up.
You're back you up with the FBI investigation, you know, or the U.S.
Attorney's office.
Yeah, Jeff could flip the script on him real quick.
Right.
What if Jeff says no the whole time he was just talking about, we're going to make
this much money, we're going to make this, we're going to do this.
We're going to pump it up here.
And he even has a whole thing.
We'll release it this much at a time, this much.
Never if it drops more than 3%, we won't release anymore.
Wait another month.
Do like, you've got a nice little scam going, don't you?
You think you've got it all figured out?
It was good on paper.
You're good.
It did look good on paper.
You just didn't account for these two con men.
Yeah, or three con men.
You got fucked is my problem.
The world is full of con men, man.
It is.
It goes bad.
Sometimes it goes bad.
You can't trust these guys.
How do you think it ends?
I mean, I think honestly, he'll probably release that he'll really, he'll release
something that meets everybody's.
You know, and then it'll do well for six months to a year.
And then it'll nose dive.
Like just like you buy zero.
It was like just like every all these other projects coffee zilled in the videos.
Yeah, but that like, so those are Instagram messages.
And the argument there is like, OK, that's fair.
Like, how do you expect him to go through?
He's probably got millions of unread messages in his right.
But here's the thing.
How do I contact you if I don't have your phone number?
I don't have an email.
I don't figure out how to get his right.
I did.
I called your manager, Jeff.
Yeah, I know you're with Jeff all the time.
I agree. Jeff counts.
I agree. Jeff does count.
I agree with that.
So yeah, he really doesn't have even, you know, with his video and with his podcast,
there's really there's really no argument.
There's no saving grace for him.
It's just his just a bunch of his buddy, although the comedian really did.
No, right.
He'd on him.
Oh, and the thing when he is podcast.
Yeah, yeah, he gives them a little bit of shit.
But it's like, we know you're a good guy.
We know, we know the whole thing is staged.
We saw you.
We saw you in front of the refrigerator.
You went ghost white.
I really felt bad for you being in the situation.
Logan, we see how stressed you are.
We see how much this means to you.
We know this is not who you are.
Yeah. Well, when you think you're facing prison, it'll do that.
That prison prison stint will do that to you.
Hey, read the first comment.
It's like hiring a team of former bank robbers
to run a new bank to run a new bank.
You decided to open.
Fascinating.
Like, I don't see.
I don't look at him.
Look at all the 12,000.
There's no positive comments.
No, every single comment is ripping him a new ass.
But here's the thing, like, this isn't going to hurt him.
It's not like he's not.
I mean, like, it's not like he's going to lose followers.
Not like he's suddenly going to get canceled.
They're going to take down his YouTube channel.
They're going to know nothing's going to happen.
He's going to go ahead and complete the project.
He's going to release the project.
He's going to sued coffee, Zilla.
Yeah, the way that.
How is that lawsuit going to work out?
That's what I was talking to Julia last night.
I'm like, I thought it was going to be similar to another
situation we're familiar with where Logan just tries to.
I mentioned that situation, by the way, on my podcast.
Oh, did you?
What'd you say?
It was very vague.
Okay.
Very vague.
So, but is he just going to try to hire lawyers and just try to
litigate into death?
No, here's what I think happens.
Because think about it.
Um, I sue you with a bunch of allegations, those same allegations.
You, of course, jump your coffee, Zilla.
So you fall back on the first amendment.
I provided my, all my, all my evidence.
I provided my evidence.
I allowed people to see if I got one or two things, there's nothing
that you can say suede people's decision one way or the other.
There's nothing that is inaccurate.
And, and, and defamation is a very difficult thing.
It's not, it's not a difficult proof.
And you have to prove that you lost money.
Like, like as a result to get damages, you have to prove that that injured me.
How did that injure you?
All of this was out there anyway.
It didn't injure you.
And if it injured you in a way that was, it was untrue.
Like I accused you of being a murderer and you got fired from your job.
And you, you know, you lost your house and you ended up on the street and
then you sued me and I had to end up compensating you for pain and suffering.
Plus all of your loss of evidence.
Because guess what?
We found out later that it was this guy down the street that actually is the
murder and I, I really ruined your life.
Like, okay, great.
You've got, you've got a case.
He didn't have a case because everything as far as I can tell is 100% true.
And if you have a thousand facts and three of them are slightly off or maybe
this one right here is completely wrong.
Like overall, that doesn't change.
You can hire any two bit lawyer to figure out this case.
He'll win.
He'll probably, if he wins, he will get the thing.
He will get his, his lawyer fees back.
Right.
Well, what I think happens is this, I think that, I think that Logan Paul
sues coffee Zilla.
He makes all these accusations.
Um, coffee Zilla then hires an attorney to defend it.
He countersues.
And then because Logan Paul just was one nasty comment after another.
Like you just came after my job.
You just said that I'm a hack.
You said I'm not a, I'm not a, a good reporter.
I'm not a good journalist that you can't believe.
Like you went after my, my, my career.
So, um, and everything you said is speculative and you said it was fax.
This is true.
And it's all bullshit.
Anyway, point is, is that they, they then countersue.
Then I think Logan Paul, they end up negotiating where they say, look, let's
come up with a settlement.
I'll, I'll pay you out of court or in court.
We can say there's a settlement.
Nobody, nobody takes responsibility.
And Logan Paul gives them 50 or $100,000.
We don't talk about this.
Okay.
Great.
So now what the court documents look like, it looks like Logan Paul sued you.
You countersued.
It was settled.
Everybody that believes in, believes Logan Paul is going to say, Logan Paul
sued him and coffee Zilla had to pay him millions.
And the people that like coffee Zilla are going to say, well, he countersued
them and they ended up settling and Logan Paul probably paid him money.
And then both of them, yeah.
But we can't, I can't talk about it.
So neither one talk about it.
So it doesn't hurt them.
But he's not going to bankrupt, you know, um, coffee Zilla.
It's not going to harm him.
He's not going to win if it doesn't get thrown out altogether.
Very good possibility.
Some judge looks at it, reads it, looks at all the evidence that goes, yeah,
this is, I'm done.
Throws it out.
Right.
Yeah.
This is, he's protected.
I don't see that he did anything wrong.
So they're very, that's a very good chance.
Yeah, I agree with that.
I just makes me want to buy some crypto zoo having had experience.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, it's because it's because of this with high knowledge.
It, uh, I just don't see coffee Zilla or do you have any insight?
I don't see coffee Zilla settling with him though for like, if I don't see him
like, what is the settlement agreement?
Take down the videos.
Like what would he do for money?
And it's not going to be, it's got to be way more than a hundred.
Well, first of all, can he really fight?
Like, can he continue a fight with, you know, with Logan Paul?
Like, how long does that drag out?
Like, you know, and you got to think too, the lawyers know you have money.
They'll gouge you.
So how can coffee Zilla come up with half a million dollars for a protracted
legal argument that, or, uh, you know, legal, um, whatever, you know, war.
Can he do that for several years?
If he documents the whole thing and makes it into a YouTube series.
Right.
But I mean, what does he ultimately get?
Yeah, he's got, he's got, he's got the money to do that.
Does he?
Yeah.
I mean, did he have it?
You know, well, I guess he's now he's got millions of subscribers.
You got millions of subscribers.
He had a million subscribers before this.
Right.
So what I'm saying is, and everything he puts out now gets half a million views
minimum, right?
Easily.
So he's got the money to maybe fight it.
But to me, how, you know, how long do you keep that going?
Do you keep it going?
Like, he may just get bogged down and say, in the end, what am I going to get?
Possibly.
My legal fees back.
Like, how long do we drag this out?
That's why I also think Logan Paul pays him.
He probably quashes it right away.
He pays him.
I think Logan Paul, I think he does sell.
Does he sell it for a hundred thousand or is it a million?
I don't know.
But trust me, Logan Paul will end up paying him if he sues him and then he
countersues him, which he's going to counter sue.
He's got a great countersuit.
It makes me, that makes me wonder, will Logan actually sue him?
He's pushing pretty hard.
Like he is.
I mean, like he might, like if you're, if he's pushing it that hard on YouTube,
is he actually going to do it?
If he's making it such a big deal, saying, I'll see you in court, will he
actually do it?
I mean, it says he is.
Yeah.
I mean, he's pushing it hard.
If he's, and all he's doing is digging in.
It's not like he's taking in responsibility.
He's just, he's made his choice.
He's digging in now.
He's like, oh, no, I'm sticking with this.
Yeah, even though it clearly is going against him.
Nobody buys this.
Well, I guess your diehard fans will.
I heard you're in the middle of a lawsuit right now.
Fucking scum.
Who me?
Yeah, I'm not.
You're not?
Oh, okay.
I heard you hired, I just hired a new lawyer.
No, why?
You didn't.
Rumors are flying.
For what?
Uh, for your, your little battle you had with the SJWs in California for your project.
Remember last time we were on the podcast, you told me.
Oh, I'm.
Uh, yeah, you can't talk about that.
I can't talk about that.
You can't?
No.
No, why not?
And we don't know where it's going.
What's a SJW?
Social justice warrior.
Remember we were on the podcast last time he was talking about the, when they were
talking about Andrew Tate on zoom and the girl.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, whatever happened with them.
We'll see.
Working on it.
There was the holidays.
I got, you got a little spun.
It's been pushed out a little bit, pushed out, pushed out, but it's coming.
It's just, they rescheduled the date.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's coming.
We'll see.
We'll see what happens.
You're looking pretty, uh, filled out, Matt.
How are you feeling?
Listen, I, I.
I said gym every morning, hitting the gym.
You look at your, you're retaining a little bit of water.
I listen.
It's horrible.
Like I literally, I went a few days where I ate barely anything.
I don't think I lost like a pound and like three days I barely ate anything.
I'm like, what's going on?
So yeah, I'm, I'm like steadily at, I'm like 182.
I can't seem to break.
That's how much I weigh.
Right.
It's ridiculous.
I mean, here's the thing though.
And I don't jacked up though, but you know, like I'm strong, like I'm
shocked how strong I am.
So you think you're stronger than Danny?
I'm positive I'm stronger than Danny.
I got a hundred on that for an arm wrestle right now.
Arm wrestle, Matt.
I don't know.
I don't know if arm wrestling means anything, but.
It's good enough for to bed on.
It's good enough to bed on.
Um, yeah, maybe you don't have to burn.
What else, what else has changed?
So muscle, muscle, any other, uh, benefits to your new regimen?
Oh, like my libido is through the roof.
Like, I mean, I've told those of you who aren't familiar with what we're talking
about, Matt Cox is now on testosterone replacement therapy.
He's on the Roids baby.
I don't say it like that.
That makes it sound illegal.
I'm going to tell you, I went, I tried the Roids.
Oh God.
I did it.
And I went on the Roids for one month.
That's not enough.
So what happened?
This is killing me.
What happened?
I went on it and I tried it like twice.
I am now off of it.
Why?
What happened stopped?
It was, I felt just like overstimulated all the time.
I just felt like too over.
I don't know how to explain it other than I felt overstimulated.
Did you feel like, did you feel more energetic like you?
Yeah, I had, I felt more, when I woke up in the morning, I would just jump out of
the bed and I was just like, no, like morning fog at all.
Instantly, just stop doing that.
Stop taking that.
You know, you don't want to be.
But during the day, I couldn't relax.
Like I couldn't just chill, like relax, sit back and not like shut my brain off.
My brain was just fucking going 24 seven.
And I just felt like the only way to make myself feel normal was just to
like fucking work out 24 seven and like run, do cardio, wear myself out.
And that was the only way I could feel.
I always felt like way, way, way above baseline.
I never felt just like I was cruising.
So why don't you just kind of dial it back a little bit?
I tried, I tried dialing it back like halfway through and it just didn't change.
And I had to eat all, I was eating 24 seven.
Were you hungry all the time?
Always hungry.
Yeah, that's my problem.
Like that's ridiculous.
This is ridiculous.
They were, there was days I could care less about eating.
There would be days where I'd felt I'd feel really good, but there would be two
days before and two days after where I didn't feel good.
I would feel normal, really good.
Maybe one, one or two days a week.
And then the rest of it was just like either super overstimulated or just didn't
feel, I didn't, I don't know.
I was too out of whack through my whole endocrine system, just out of whack.
So I stopped.
Now I'm back to, I feel, I feel fine.
I feel back to my normal self now, but I tried the Roids.
I wanted to try it.
I want to see what it was like.
So now I can say I tried it and it wasn't for me.
It wasn't for you.
Maybe when I'm 40, maybe when I'm 50, maybe I'll try it again.
But yeah, 35.
How's it doing for you?
Matt would beat us through the roof, jacked out of your gills.
Other than the fact that I want to lose 10 pounds.
Why?
I feel like I'm just, I've gained weight and, you know, I, I don't want to get
hit the sauna.
You don't have a sauna.
Who do you have a sauna?
Oh, it does have a sauna.
I don't know that.
No, you're right.
It, I, I mean, I, I really, I hit the sauna two, three times a week.
Really?
I don't know.
There's a lot of naked guys in there and they're comfortable.
He's walking around, slapping his big flipper feet all around fucking the
bear tile in the sauna.
I'm afraid I'll catch a guy.
You got to wear shower slides.
You got to wear a shower.
Fuck bro.
Yeah.
Cause that floor is scared of me when I walk in there.
Yeah.
I still have my shower slides.
So from prison.
So yeah, I could just wear those.
Yeah.
So I don't trim a couple of pounds off you, bro.
Will it?
Any cognitive benefits?
Sweat that out.
Sitting there for 30 minutes.
I don't know.
I'm taking Joe Rogan's alpha brain.
You just started on it?
Yeah.
About, about, uh, no, for Christmas, I got it for Christmas.
So I started it in Christmas at Christmas.
Oh yeah.
How's that?
Black label.
Yeah.
Nice.
How's that treating you?
I mean, I, you know, I, it, maybe it's got like a slight placebo effect or
something like, I don't, that's what I said too.
I don't know that you tried it.
It's supposed to, uh, it's supposed to give you a better memory, recall,
and if you're like trying to learn new things, there's a kem,
there's a, one of the ingredients in it, um, is supposed to help you
like retain knowledge better, like retaining knowledge and recalling.
I forgot everything.
Listen, I can't remember nothing.
Yeah.
I can't remember nothing.
Like, listen, halfway through those coffee, Zilla videos, I was like,
yes, I'll never remember any of this.
This is too much.
Good job this time.
You're all hype.
You're all hopped up on supplements, Matt.
It just sounds like it sounds like that.
Isn't it, bro?
Yeah.
I don't, I, it does.
It's got a thousand supplements.
Listen, if I didn't take four, like three or four ibuprofen every
morning, I don't think I'd make it down.
What's your diet like?
You're still eating the hungry man.
Linguazines, baby.
Linguazine.
I eat, I probably eat a linguazine probably five, six days a week.
And then I, I eat like a can of tuna or not tuna.
I'm sorry.
Like white chicken breast and I'll eat maybe a couple of scoops of peanut butter.
You know, like that, that's honestly, that's typically about it.
I'm telling it, and I can't seem to lose weight.
I know my favorite midday meal is I buy these canned sardines and all packed in
olive oil, get the sardines and you put them with the wickles, pickles, the spicy
pickles, slap some of those sardines on top of a pickle and some hot sauce.
That is the best.
I hate hot sauce.
I hate sardines.
Why do you hate sardines?
I love pickles.
I just think I don't.
I like fish, but you know, because it's the whole fish.
No, it's not freaking me out.
You buy it like you buy like the in the can baby fillets by the like fillets.
It's not the whole head.
You can buy them whole, but I just buy like the fillets packed in olive oil.
It's really good.
It's better than fucking tuna, I think the tuna has a lot of mercury because tuna are big.
I don't eat the white chicken breast, just the little cans of white chicken breast.
OK, but I'm when I'm talking about fish, like sardines are like some of the best
fish you can eat because they have the least amount of mercury because they're
really small and they don't eat other big fish.
Like a big pelagic fish like tuna and Wahoo, they have a lot of mercury in them.
Right.
So that's really bad.
But if you're not eating it all the time, right, right, right.
I eat a fuckload of sardines.
So that's why you think about that.
As you're just going keto.
You know how we went diet.
You just went keto.
No, I'm not keto.
Yeah, he is.
He's like, I'm just trying to cut on carbs a little bit.
Yeah.
Just murder and fucking bread and pasta all the time.
Pizza and fucking trying to cut that.
I love like I love bread.
Yeah, I mean, it's fucking insane.
He we we got these eye watches so we can compete on our like we can do these
like weekly workout competitions to see who like burns the most calories,
who moves the most and all this shit.
So with the when you get the eye watch killing him.
Oh, yeah.
Smoking me, you get the eye watch smoke, right.
So I can go to the gym and work out like a fucking crazy person for two hours.
I need those.
Oh, we got to get one.
Yeah, you got to get one, bro.
You got to get one.
It'll be fucking hilarious.
We got to get you one.
So I'll go to the gym for like two hours.
Lift weights like a madman for like two hours and do cardio, right.
He all he has to do is fucking like hang out at home and watch the football game
and he'll burn more calories than me.
It's a little bit exaggerated, but and I do burn hella more calories in him.
And we did a test.
So like me and him went golfing one day, right.
Yeah.
And we both clocked the workout of us golfing on our watches, both together,
both together, same work, the same workout.
Same exact check our heart rate.
My heart rate will be like 88 or 85.
His heart rate will be like 120 doing the same fucking thing.
50% increase taken.
That's, I think, why he is burning more calories because his heart beats way faster.
He'll probably be dead in a year or two.
He's probably something's wrong.
That's not right, but that's the thing to say, bro.
Bigger people have lower heart rates, right?
Like if you're a bigger, like typically bigger guys have lower resting heart rates
than small guy, like look at a mouse.
A mouse is a super fast heart rate, right, compared to a fucking gorilla.
I always thought that the bigger the bigger the person or the bigger the animal
that the lower the resting heart rate.
I have no idea.
Maybe maybe that's something you can find out, Austin.
So I find that that was weird.
His heart rate up doc.
His heart rate is always fucking 30 beats faster than mine minimum.
Let's see what you're ticking out right now.
Not always.
Yeah, let's see.
Also, it has partly to do with like your age.
Like I'll bet you my heartbeat is not that fast.
I don't burn a lot of calories.
I can't because I barely take.
I don't take in 2000 calories a day.
All right.
But right now I'm taking 88.
No way.
Uh, so it's calculating was 99.
Two minutes.
I'm at 99.
Is it 99?
So I'm at 87, 84.
84.
He's at 99.
I just said a hundred.
Just hit triple digits, baby.
That's crazy.
So you go and you've been talking and you're talking and you're and he's just
very quiet and still and he's stoned his shit right now too.
So that's got to be the reason, right?
Because his heart rate is so much faster.
I trust me.
Somebody will, there'll be about 50, 100 people in the comments.
Let us, you idiots don't know what you're talking about.
There's nothing to do with that.
Long story short, he's mad because I smoke him in the competition on
the regular.
Smokes me in the competitions.
Yeah.
Taller people have lower resting heart rate compared to shorter people.
The low, the lower heart rate is generally associated with a longer functioning
heart. In addition, larger diameter arteries are less likely to, to develop
plaque buildup in the Western diet.
Hey, look, bro, I haven't been easy on his heart for 34 years.
Okay.
I put this thing through fucking hell and back and saying, maybe have been
through times where it wasn't ticking at all.
Oh, hello there world.
Unfortunately, we had to cut this episode short because the
conversation got a little too hot for YouTube.
But if you want to watch the full episode, we put the whole thing up on our
Patreon, which is linked below.
I very much appreciate you guys watching and supporting the show.
We have lots of heavy hitting episodes coming up in the next couple of weeks.
Thank you and I love you all.
