For people that don't know who you are, why don't you like give yourself a brief, give
us like a background of like how you got into this and like where you came from and all
that.
Yeah.
So my name is Luke Caverns.
I'm an anthropologist that studies sort of the origins of civilization, but I'm kind
of like a rogue anthropologist.
I'm not going to go work for a university.
I'm not going to work for a big college or anything like that, but yeah, the way that
that started was I grew up hearing about stories that my family had been involved in.
So on my dad's side of the family, in the 1890s, there's this great legend of this.
It's called the Bill Kelly Mine, or it's like the lost gold of Bill Kelly.
And so my family, they had this big farm out in Dryden, Texas.
This is West Texas.
And so there's this place out there called Reagan Canyon.
That was my family's last name.
And so Reagan Canyon is where Spanish troops would pass through the Rio Grande River and
come up into West Texas on their way to sites like New Mexico.
And sometimes they would pass through there and eventually head back over east towards
San Antonio because there's a lot of cattle being driven through there.
And that's what they were involved in, was cattle.
But they end up finding this young boy, this young, he's like a half African American,
half Mexican boy who comes through riding a mule and he doesn't have a family.
He has no place to go.
So he becomes like an indentured worker for my family back then.
You know, this is late 1800s, so they don't have the same moral that we have today, necessarily.
And so, but they take him in, they treat him like family and everything.
And while he was out herding cattle and I think they had goats as well, he finds this
lost goldmines.
So I won't sit on this for too long, but they spent from the 1890s through probably the Great
Depression kind of shut it down because life got so hard and people couldn't live out and
drive in Texas anymore during the Great Depression.
There's this 40 year quest of my family and other people who are involved looking for
these lost goldmines.
And it kind of gets twisted up because when the Spanish were bringing gold through that
Reagan Canyon, there would be bandits in there that would stop these Spanish patrols, take
all their loot, bring it up into the mountains and hide it up there.
So there have been people, I've seen photos, I don't have photos of it with me today, but
there are photos of people who go out and they see these, they look like rocks, but
when you go up onto it, it ends up being like these wooden cases that have fallen in and
they open the case and there's all kinds of like Spanish treasure items, identification
of, I don't know, Spanish military leaders that were on these caravans.
And so these bandits would drag it up into the mountains and hope to come back later
for whatever reason they never would.
So my family from the 1890s was big into cattle in West Texas and in their spare time searching
for lost Spanish gold because it was just happening in the area.
So they get involved in oil, they made some money, they made quite a lot of money in oil
in the early 1900s.
My dad's father is then born, he steps into the oil business and he uses the oil business
as a means to fund, you know, because he becomes captivated with searching for lost treasures
in like the Southwest American areas.
And he becomes captivated looking for lost treasures, lost cities, lost Spanish gold.
And so he uses his gold mining operation and oil operation as a means to do that.
So he goes out into New Mexico in the 1950s and he finds the seven lost Spanish gold mines,
which was this legend that had been around for 60 years before that.
So from the 1890s as well, there were seven lost Spanish gold mines out in the deserts
of New Mexico that people had been looking for.
He found them and he found old Spanish sites there and then he even concluded that there
may have been Mogollon, which is the, it's the ancient indigenous culture that would
have lived there from maybe 1000 BC up until 1000 AD.
So about 2000 years, the Mogollon people would have lived there.
Well it's thought, even though there hasn't been any archaeologists or geologists out
there to conclude this, this is just what him as an amateur archaeologist, he probably
would have been more closely, it's like an antiquarian, just somebody who had a lot of
money who was into ancient history, but he thought that maybe the Mogollon people were
mining things out there as well.
Well he rediscovered these mines and he opens up something called the Three Bells Mining
Company and so for eight years from 1955 to 1963, he's running this big gold mining operation
out there in the desert and it's kind of like a hidden location.
Well a smelter explodes, somebody dies, shrapnel goes flying everywhere, his partner runs off
with all the money and he lost everything and in the fallout of that immense poverty,
they had nothing.
I mean they went from one of the wealthiest families in East Texas, they had like eventually
ended up in Palestine, Texas, they were the wealthiest family in East Texas to being one
of the poorest families, just like that and you know, there were just some not very smart
decisions that were made during that whole gold mining process, but they lost everything.
Well my dad was born in the fallout of that poverty and so my dad never witnessed any
of the wealth that they had, but grew up hearing about these lost treasures and everything
and I grew up hearing about that as well and then I guess on the other side, on my mother's
side, my grandpa, he was a pastor but also into the ancient history of the Bible.
So growing up I learned a lot about ancient history from my mother's side and then kind
of seeking gold, seeking treasure, being an adventurer, being an explorer from my father's
side and so I grew up hearing about all this and so from as early as I can remember, these
were the first stories I was ever being told.
Well all these years later I end up, I pursue some other career ideas, none of them really
and in the back of my mind, in spite of everything, I cannot get away from the allure of ancient
civilizations and the reason I pushed it off is just because, I mean, how do you make a
living doing that?
I mean, a lot of these guys are dirt broke who study ancient civilizations.
How do you turn that into a good semi-prosperous life, right?
But in spite of everything, I couldn't get away from it and so eventually when school
got my degree in anthropology and last year, my dad and I were talking at the beginning
of the year as my channels are starting to take off and I tell him, I'm like, dad, I
want to go find those mining camps that he had, the camps that are way out in the desert
and he had these, I had seen them growing up but really just started looking at them
maybe about two years ago, my grandfather who was in New Mexico, he had maps of all
the mines where they were mapped out and everything but he had no GPS coordinates on the map.
It was all hidden because he knew one day he wanted to go back out there and reopen
up the mines and so he blew in a bunch of the mines, like, you know, blew in the mouth
of the mines, collapsed them so that other people couldn't go in there because they were
rich gold veins that are just sticking out.
I mean, it was one of the richest gold mines in New Mexico at the time in Southwest New
Mexico and so I spent the better part of nine months scanning satellite photography to try
to find, according to this 1955 map of the region, I was going on satellite photography
and satellite imaging trying to figure out where it was.
I eventually found it and this time last year I was getting ready to go out there and so
I went out there and I found it in person and explored the mines and everything.
The infrastructure was all still there.
We went metal detecting in the rivers like 100 yards away and we found debris from the
blast that had exploded and destroyed my family's wealth.
Found debris from the blast, went down into the mines.
We found mines with openings that are, you know, half the size of this room that are
so deep that, you know, you lean over and look down and you can never see the bottom
and probably about, you know, all there ended up being about 40 mines out there and we only
saw half of the whole property.
So anyways, that's kind of my upbringing and my background and where I come from and all
of that lead me to being into ancient history but not necessarily looking for Spanish gold.
I kind of started in ancient, looking for, I kind of started being interested in ancient
Egypt but like we were talking about last night, Egypt is not as accessible to me.
I just don't have the funds to go there, hadn't had the funds to go there and so learned as
much as I could about Egypt and then I became interested in the Americas because, you know,
I could just fly to Mexico and so I got wrapped up in all of that and started making videos
about it, maybe about, just about two years ago I started making videos after years of
studying and I thought that maybe making videos would be a better route than being an archaeologist
working for a university, being told what I have to do.
If I could build a life where I was talking to people about ancient history, maybe that
could afford me the ability to pay my bills, to support my wife and my dog and be able to
travel as well, you know, so that's where I'm at now.
That's incredible.
And I was kind of shocked last night at dinner when you told me there's no way that the Egyptians
did not build the pyramids because I just got done talking to Randall and Ben for the
last three days and basically everything that they show is evidence for the pyramids
being built before the Younger Dryas Cataclysm and the fact that the ancient, all the evidence
with the hieroglyphs and the perfect symmetry and the amazing construction is like, it's
impossible that they did that with copper chisels and pounding stones.
That's true.
Okay, so when I say that, my point of view, I think that there are other sites in the
world that definitely allude to the idea that there's a lost civilization that dates back,
you know, as far as during around the time of the Ice Age.
In my personal opinion, I don't think that the pyramids in Egypt are the best example
of that.
I'd love to see what they present, I mean, because these guys, I mean, they study that
specifically, but from my point of view as a guy who's never been there, like I was telling
you last night, I'm an anthropologist as well.
So I'm not only a skeptic, I'm also classically trained as like a fancy way of saying that,
but I studied it in school.
And so from that point of view, you approach Egyptology and you study, well, what does Egyptology
actually say?
And you get it, I mean, a lot of these guys are pretty excellent, but when you look at,
I guess from my point of view, when you look at the bent pyramid and you look at the chambers
inside of it, on the ceilings of the chambers, like I was telling you yesterday, they used,
they think that it was the pharaoh Senefru, which there's a really compelling piece of
evidence for that, but it's not coming to mind right now as to why he built the pyramid
of Maidum, the bent pyramid and the red pyramid, which the red pyramid is the first great pyramid
that's smooth.
That's like a perfect pyramid.
So that's the red pyramid?
That's the red pyramid.
Yeah.
It's the red pyramid in the deserts of Dashor.
And so, you know, people look at the three great pyramids on the Giza Plateau.
So you have Khufu's pyramid, Khafre in the Minkure.
And so this is a lineage of kings, but, and you know, those are like the straight sided
pyramids with the casing stones.
There was one before that.
There was a perfect one right before that and it's called the red pyramid and it's made
out of a type of limestone that when the sun hits it, it's like beaming red.
And maybe you can find some images of this.
Yeah.
How close is that to the Giza Plateau?
I think it's like 15 miles south of the Giza Plateau or maybe it's like 50 miles south.
It's not, you know, it's kind of in that area, but it's not right next to it.
And we know that the red pyramid is older, how?
I think that they, I think that they date it due to like biological material or natural
material that was there, that was carbon dated, plus you also have relative dating.
So you look at like, you know, all throughout the ancient world, the reason that, so like
according to classical archeology, the reason that pottery and art is so important is because
they will find somewhere, they'll find pottery alongside a burial tomb in Egypt.
And so you learn relative dating, right?
So you learn that, okay, we can test this guy's body, the things that were in his tomb,
look at the pottery, look at the art that was in his tomb.
And so it's all relative dating.
You're comparing things to each other.
But I should say, yeah, look, this is a wild graph.
You can hover over it and it shows you.
So what are the numbers next to them?
There's like three, two, bent pyramids, three, two is the collapsed pyramid of Medum.
Oh, number one, the pyramid of Dozier.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So is that the step pyramid?
The step pyramid of Sokara.
So they're saying that's the first?
Well, yeah, traditional Egyptologists think that the step pyramid of the pharaoh, Dozier,
which was constructed by Emotep, is the progenitor of pyramids before that.
There may have been pyramids before that that we don't have evidence of, you know, maybe
that they reuse the blocks or, you know, Egyptians took down the blocks to build new monuments.
But they think that the step pyramid of Sokara or the pyramid of Dozier is the original.
And that Senefru, who may have been his son or his grandson, came in and wanted to build
a perfect pyramid.
So you see how it has the steps?
He wanted to fill in smaller blocks and to give it a point on the top.
And some of them have a capstone, but I don't know that Senefru's pyramids ever did.
He wanted to come in and make it a perfect pyramid.
So what they speculate with the bent pyramid, now I'll say again, Ben and Randall's evidence
might be more compelling than what I'm about to say.
So what they think, what traditional Egyptology speculates is that the bent pyramid, you see
how the lower side of it is more, it has more of a vertical incline.
Well they thought that maybe the way that they constructed the inner chambers didn't,
that the structure wasn't going to be sound enough if they were going to, I mean, because
it's, it's, that's a, think about it when you're looking at the angle of how those,
the lower part of the pyramid goes up, how many more blocks and how much more, how many
more hundreds of tons of weight, thousands of tons of weight will go into that.
And so they thought that maybe the inner chambers, well, traditional Egyptologists think that
back then when Senefru and his architects were building it, they thought, okay, so these
inner chambers are not going to be sound enough.
We need something, we've already built the chambers, this is how tall the pyramid's getting.
We need something else to bolster the ceilings.
So they speculate that Senefru sends out an expedition to Lebanon and he gets cedar trees,
cedars of Lebanon.
If you've ever heard, if you've ever heard of those before, some of the strongest trees
in the world.
And they, they transport these trees all the way from Lebanon, bring them down to D'Ashur
and which I believe is where the step pyramid is, and then they bolster them into the ceiling.
And so when, when people who study like archeo-architects or something like that, you know, architects
who study ancient architecture, they believe that those trees were built into that pyramid.
And so when that's carbon dated, it's carbon dated to about 2,600 BC.
And so that's like, that's a, that's a really tough argument to get around.
And then when you look at the construction of the step pyramid, it's, it's very similar
to the red pyramid and the red pyramid is, is like what the three great pyramids, what
it looks like they're based off of.
Now I can go a little further than that.
I didn't depict this last night.
When you look at the Sphinx, the Sphinx is a super compelling argument in my mind for,
for architecture that has been there for, I mean, more than 10,000 years.
There's a really great book by Dr. Robert Shock.
Have you ever heard of him?
His book is amazing.
I've had the pleasure of speaking to his wife a little bit.
His book is, is such a compelling case.
And he feels that same way that the Sphinx is really compelling for a piece of architecture
that's been around for more than 10,000 years rather than the pyramids.
So what's interesting is, so the Sphinx, I believe is largely carved out of at least
the outside of the outside of the great pyramids.
It's the same type of stone.
It's all limestone.
And so when you look at the erosion on the Sphinx and you look at how much we know that
the dynastic Egyptians were trying to repair the Sphinx and eventually, eventually it was
so old and unreparable that I think around the reign of Akhenaten, which is, this is
like 1400 BC, the Sphinx was built in about 2650 or 2560 BC.
So about 1,100 years later, during the Middle Kingdom, I believe, getting close to the New
Kingdom, a pharaoh comes in and decides to bury the Sphinx.
They, they completely bury it purposely.
They have like the dream stealer that's put in there between the paws.
That dream stealer was carved 1,000 years after they think that the Sphinx, that traditional
archaeologists think that the Sphinx was built.
So anyways, they go in there, they bury the Sphinx, but this is the problem.
Traditional archaeologists or Egyptologists say that the Sphinx was built at exactly the
same time as the Pyramid of Coffray, which Coffray is the center pyramid on the great,
on the Great Pyramids on the Giza Plateau, you've got, you've got Cufu's Pyramid, Coffray's
Pyramid in the middle, and then Minkuri.
So Cufu is the father, Coffray is the son, and then Minkuri may be the grandson or may
be the great grandson.
And so the Pyramid of Coffray that's in the middle, almost directly in front of that is
the Sphinx, the Sphinx and the Sphinx Temple.
And so, but the problem with the Sphinx is when you look at the erosion inside that
pit, it doesn't match up at all.
Because what traditional Egyptologists say is that, so they built it in 2560 BC, and
over the course of the next 1,000 to 1,100 years, those deep, erosional markings that
are inside the pit, that had to have happened within the course of 1,000 years because they
say that the Sphinx has been around for about, I think 4,500 years.
And all of that erosion, there are geologists who go there and when they just show them,
or geologists who have been there, they bring back photos and they show other professors
and they say, what does this look like to you?
And they're like, that's over 10,000 years of limestone erosion.
And they're like, but that's, no, this is in the pit of the Sphinx.
So traditional Egyptologists are basically, I don't think they have a way of explaining
this, but they're not going to admit that it could be much older than dynastic Egypt.
But what they're saying is that, what they're essentially forcing everyone to have to believe
is that within that 1,000 years before the Egyptians, while they're trying to repair
it, and then before they bury the Sphinx, all of that erosion happened in that short
little window.
That doesn't make any sense.
But that erosion that we see there, we just don't see it on the pyramids.
Like you don't see the weathering of those blocks in the same way that you see inside,
that you see in places like the Sphinx temple.
There are some evidence of it at the valley temple.
Like in Egypt, I think there's all kinds of examples of something that could have been
there for more than 10,000 years.
But I don't think that the pyramids are the best example of that.
But then at the same time, whoever built the pyramids, like the argument that they're making,
which I have to agree with, whoever built the pyramids was also capable of doing all
these other things like building, constructing the Serapium, the boxes, the diorite granite
boxes that are in the Serapium, constructing the Osirian, the Osirishaft, I believe those
are the correct names.
It's just because we may know who built the pyramids, it doesn't answer how they built
it at all whatsoever.
And I think a lot of Egyptologists do that, they go, well, the evidence really points
towards that it was the old kingdom in Egypt around 2600 BC.
So that's that.
But then they can't admit that we have literally no idea how it was done.
And I think Robert Schock is the one who found out that there's water erosion on the Sphinx,
that it's actually not wind and sand.
It's made by water.
And it would make sense.
I don't know if that would make sense that there was no water erosion on the pyramids
because didn't there used to be like huge casing stones like completely covering all
sides of the pyramids?
Yeah, there used to be, but on the Minkure pyramid, those casing stones are still there.
And they don't bear that same kind of erosion.
But then again, you could argue that the pyramids on the plateau are higher up, they're quite
a bit higher up in elevation than the Sphinx.
Oh really?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, yeah, there's an incline, I believe.
I've never been there to see it for myself.
So I'm kind of basing this off of really studying it on Google Earth and looking at some maps.
But yeah, I think like the plateau, it's raised up.
So I mean, there's the argument that...
But then also, okay, so then you got to think about...
So the pyramids would have been built in a time during the...
It would have been built during a time when the Sahara was green.
So if the pyramids were built 11,500 years ago, 12,500 years ago, then it would have
been built in a time when Sahara was green and experienced much more rainfall.
So you would see on the pyramids, you would see the devastating effects of erosion that
you see on the Sphinx.
Like the Sphinx is completely destroyed by erosion and water erosion.
But you don't see that on the pyramids.
But maybe if they were still completely covered in the casing stones, but then again at the
top of the Coffrey Pyramid in the middle, those casing stones are still at the top.
They never pull those casing stones down.
And I don't know that I've ever seen a complete study done on that, but I'd like to see do
those casing stones show any weathering that would be like...
It wouldn't have been experiencing rainfall for 12,000 years, but maybe from...
If it was made about 10,500 BC, it probably would have been experiencing rainfall for
another...
Africa starts to dry up around 6,000 BC around the area it begins.
So it would have been experiencing rainfall for like 4,000 years on a semi-regular basis.
It's probably possible that I think people have speculated too that the Sphinx is way
older than the pyramids.
I believe that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Well, in Robert Schock, I think he falls in that area too.
I think that he's a little dubious about the pyramids, which I am as well.
And I think Graham Hancock is too.
I think...
Yeah.
I think so.
What do you mean?
I've heard him in some places say, I've heard him kind of concede that the pyramids might
not be this like Atlantean civilization because there's a lot of evidence that stacks up that
the Egyptians may have done it.
It does not answer the question of how they did it.
What is the lot of evidence though that shows that they may have done it?
If there's one thing I know about my listeners is that they appreciate innovation.
That's why I want to introduce you to GhostBed, makers of some of the most cutting edge mattresses
available, whether it's their world exclusive massage bed, the proprietary cooling technology
or the patented materials they use.
GhostBed is always finding ways to elevate the sleeping experience and as a family owned
business with over two decades in the industry, they have garnered a devoted following.
GhostBed offers luxury mattresses without the luxury price tag and they're known for their
incredible sales.
If you go to ghostbed.com forward slash Danny and use the code Danny at checkout, you can
get an astonishing 40% off your purchase.
You get a 101 night sleep trial along with free shipping and returns when you purchase
your mattress so you can try in the comfort of your own home.
And GhostBed has a dedicated team of sleep experts on standby to help you find the perfect
bed.
It's an unbeatable opportunity to enhance your sleep quality, so don't miss out.
Visit ghostbed.com forward slash Danny today to transform your sleep for the better.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
That'd be a whole different study for me to do that I haven't dived into because since
he's kind of conceded that, I've already been studying the America stuff, but I want
to clarify that I'm not like, I don't have my ego wrapped in this argument.
If it turned out to be an Atlantean civilization structure that was around or in the Younger
Dryas, I think that'd be fascinating.
But I find it just as fascinating that, yeah, maybe, you know, for me, the most compelling
thing is like, I can't get around the cedars of Lebanon that are in the bent pyramid.
That's like, man, and it's, and it's, that's the same kind of architecture as the other
ones.
Like how do we get around that?
Maybe they were built in later, but here's the problem.
If they were put into the bent pyramid, it was done to prevent the ceiling from collapsing.
So we know that it was built in a way where it wasn't structurally sound.
So if it was built in a way that it wasn't structurally sound 12,000 years ago, it would
have collapsed by now.
I don't know that it would have survived all that time for the Egyptians to then go in
there and be like, we got to put some trees in here and, you know, bolster up this roof.
And why would they have done it?
I don't know.
Can we find pictures?
Do you think there's any pictures we can find on Google of the cedars inside the bent pyramid?
You could try.
That is a really, really tough thing to find.
Now there's expedition that's going there next year.
Is that it?
Expand it.
Those might be, but I can't see it super clearly from here.
It doesn't look exactly like the photos that I've seen, but there may be more than just
one instance of them using the cedars of Lebanon in the bent pyramid.
So yeah, that's the red pyramid, I believe.
That might be the inside of the red pyramid, but that might be the, yeah, that's the inside
of the red pyramid.
Okay.
If you keep going down, it looks like there's a ton of stuff here.
I would love to see somebody break down the cedars inside the bent pyramid like the way
it's...
I haven't seen anybody do it before.
Really?
I don't think so, no.
I wonder if Ben's had to have done it, because if that's a big argument for the Egyptians
building those pyramids, I'm sure Ben would have looked at it and maybe a video about
it.
Well, kind of like what we were talking about last night.
I know he's been inside of the bent pyramid.
I will say again that the Egyptologists think that from studying the construction of it...
Now, this would be something that next time Ben goes, I want to see him dive into this
because I'm not dogmatic in saying...
It's just from my point of view, diving into it, I'm like, yeah, it's a pretty compelling
argument that these were made by the dynastic Egyptians, but I'd love to see somebody prove
me wrong.
I want to be clear about that.
Have you seen Ben's vases, the latest analysis they've done on those vases where they compare
all the different surfaces?
Yeah, some of that stuff is inexplicable.
I mean, there's no explanation and I want to say that again, from my point of view,
I'm an anthropologist with a love for ancient history.
I love ancient Egypt and studying ancient Egypt as much as I love looking into these
really mysterious sites that could have been built during this...
I called it like an Atlantean civilization, but whatever kind of civilization, this Ice
Age civilization, I love both of those ideas equally.
There's a lot of stuff that we know that the ancient Egyptians did that we still don't
have explanations for.
Yeah, what I think is super interesting about...
I think that some of those vases that he has are from...
I want to say they're very early Old Kingdom or pre-dynastic.
So, Jozier, nobody argues that that Sokara step...
So this will be super interesting before we get into the America stuff.
I haven't seen anybody discuss this exactly.
This is a real dilemma, I should say, in ancient Egypt.
So the pyramid of Jozier, it's the Sokara step pyramid.
It was constructed by Emotep.
In his necropolis, there is art and hieroglyphs scattered throughout his necropolis that show
him in the afterlife, visiting divine sanctuaries and performing miracles.
There are murals that I think now are in Egyptian museums or maybe some European museums.
They take it out of there and move it across the world, but they found all kinds of examples
of funerary glyphs or hieroglyphs in his necropolis that show him.
And then they say, okay, so then after that, Senefrou comes in and he's going to try to
build a perfect pyramid.
So he builds the pyramid of Maidum or Medum and it collapses.
It's known as the collapsed pyramid.
And then he goes on to the building of the bent pyramid and he makes it too angular, it's
too tall, it's not going to survive in the middle, but he decides to finish it anyways
and he goes, you know what?
This isn't perfect.
I want to build one again.
So then he builds the red pyramid.
Okay, so then this dude built three pyramids over his lifetime and not in one place did
he ever carve his name in any of those structures at all.
He never said like a guy who's a pharaoh, who's like the most powerful person in the
most powerful civilization that exists on the world at that time, doesn't carve his
name into his monuments into any of the three monuments that he builds and dedicated his
lifetime to.
And then not only that, his son Khufu builds an even bigger pyramid, an even better pyramid
and then doesn't carve his name anywhere inside of it at all.
There's no hieroglyphs inside of the pyramid.
And then not only that, his son builds an even, I think that the center pyramid, the
Coffrey pyramid might be a little bit bigger than the Great Pyramid and he builds an even
more grand pyramid and then builds the Sphinx Temple in front of it.
And then they say he constructed the Sphinx as well, nowhere is his name seen.
Nowhere are any funerary texts, any hieroglyphs, anything that's depicting this pharaoh who
used so much of Egypt's economy to build this pyramid.
And then not only that, his son did it too.
So you have six pyramids built over the course of multiple lifetimes where there's no hieroglyphs.
I mean, pharaohs have to be vain people, right?
I mean, they're building this to be their tomb, quote, unquote, and then they don't
put their name anywhere.
That's a real dilemma in Egyptology that Egyptologists can't explain.
How do they come to that conclusion then?
I think it's all through relative dating.
This would be something that I could dive into, but I specialize in ancient Americas.
But it's all through relative dating.
So I think that there's very loose documents here recently, within the last couple years,
there's this thing that makes headlines that's like ancient papyrus found that proves how
the pyramids were built.
Did you see this?
No.
Yeah, it's called the Diary of Marare.
And it ends up being like a ledger.
It's like a logbook of an ancient architect who is leading an expedition down south of
lower Egypt.
In Egypt, lower Egypt is actually the north side, upper Egypt is the south side because
the way the river flows, the river flows north.
And so back then, they didn't know north and south, so they call it upper and lower Egypt.
And I think I said that right.
So anyways, it's this guy named Marare who's probably some kind of chieftain or something
working under the pharaoh Khufu.
And this is how scant the evidence is in ancient Egypt.
This is the kind of conclusions that they make, which it's not wrong to make conclusions
based off of this, but it's wrong to be so dogmatic.
Like a lot of Egyptologists, the guys who are at the top of the Ministry of Antiquities
are insanely aggressive about their conclusions.
Whereas like my personal conclusion is I think that, yeah, I think the Egyptians did build
the pyramids, but I'm not aggressive about it.
If I would love for somebody to, like I would love to be sitting here with Ben and Randall
and then they tell me something and I go, damn, you're right.
And then I'll change my mind just like that.
I try to be like a pure scientist in that way.
I just love the subject.
Anyways, I try to stay, I try to have a lot of humility in what I'm talking about.
So anyways, they find the diary of Marare and it's basically just a ledger or a logbook
of he was bringing limestone, big limestone blocks back to a place called Khufu's horizon.
And so we know that Khufu existed.
Like we know that Jozer, Senefru, Khufu, Khafre, Menkure, all these other pharaohs,
we know that they existed because they're written about, they're talked about in other
places.
But then the ideological community comes out and goes, oh, see, this is the diary of Marare.
It proves how it was built.
Well, no, it proves that there was somebody on an expedition to pick up limestone blocks
to bring it back to Khufu's horizon, but we don't know what Khufu's horizon is.
A lot of people think that's the Giza Plateau, that these were blocks that were being brought
to the Giza Plateau during the construction of Khufu's pyramid.
And I mean, and some Egyptologists will tell you like with 100% certainty, I have literally
no idea what exactly that means.
It could be Khufu's palace.
We assume he had a palace, but that's never been found.
And so there's just no way of actually knowing, but that's kind of how scant some of the evidence
is.
It's very loose.
There's nothing about remote antiquity during the time that these pyramids would have been
built at the latest date, say around 2600 BC, that's still remote antiquity.
I mean, there's not much that survives there other than giant megalithic architecture that
can stand the test of time.
Now what is the similarities in the construction of the pyramids in Egypt and the construction
of the pyramids in Mexico and South America?
Are they super similar?
Do you think there are pyramids that look like they were built around the same time?
Well, there were certainly pyramids built at exactly the same time.
The pyramids in Kerala, so I have some photos of this.
You want me to pull this up?
Yeah.
Let me turn on my laptop.
So okay, so this is the valley of the pyramids.
Let's look at Kerala.
I might have to zoom in a little bit.
Some of these photos aren't the best.
Where is Kerala again?
Kerala is a central Peru kind of on the coast.
It's in an area called the valley of the pyramids.
So there's all these pyramids that what I'm about to show you, there are all these pyramids
that if I were to show you, if I were to tell you this is an obscure site in Egypt, you
would instantly believe it.
I'm telling you, bro, it looks exactly like Egypt.
Yes, it's shocking.
Let's see if we can get these up.
A lot of these photos, there aren't people that are going out there taking photos of
these sites with the same kind of high resolution and great photo quality because people don't
go visit these sites.
In Egypt, you could find a photo of damn near anything you want to find.
As something as obscure as the cedars of Lebanon in the bent pyramid, that's going to be tough
because I don't think your average person can get into the bent pyramid.
Ben can get his way in there, but your average person can't.
So I'd love to see Ben talk about it because if there's a more compelling argument than
what I'm putting up, I want to hear it and I want to change my mind or I want my mind
to be changed about it because I think it's super mysterious, that's super mysterious.
But anyways, in ancient Peru, dude, yeah, okay, so let's say that Egyptologists are right
and the Old Kingdom, pre-Dinastic Egypt are the progenitors of the Great Pyramid, or the
progenitors of the pyramids in Egypt.
Well, according to that chronology, about 600 years before that, between 3300 and 3100
BC, ancient Peruvians were starting to build pyramids as well.
Not in the same way though.
All right.
So what do we got here?
Okay.
So these are the ancient pyramids of Corral.
Now, you can kind of tell that the top layer is missing because of how much it's been eroded
over time and how much it's deteriorated over time, but most people have literally never
seen this before.
These date back to just over 5,000 years ago, about 3300 BC to 3100 BC.
They're being created by ancient Peruvians and they have these all over this little
valley.
Another photo right here, I'm sorry, this might not be a Corral pyramid.
Here we go.
There's two other pyramids of Corral.
Now the resolution on them is unfortunately not that great because like I said, there's
just not a lot of people going out here to take quality photos.
This is something I intend to do over the course of my career, like publish a lot of
studies as well as just good photos and videos and drone videos of these places.
Now I want to say there's around 15 to 20 of these pyramids that predate the official
time of like the Old Kingdom in Egypt.
And what's interesting about these sites is that when archaeologists go in there, the
few that actually go there and spend time studying these areas, because this is erred,
I mean this is a three hour drive into the middle of nowhere in Peru, in the middle of
the desert.
And what they're finding here is that these ancient Peruvians somehow were, well I mean
they were obviously aware that earthquakes were a regular thing.
And so sometimes you see structures out here that are completely, that they're about the
same size as these pyramids, but they're completely collapsed.
And so some of the stones are left over, but a lot of the stones get reused.
And so they're right here, we see ancient Peruvians working on building anti-seismic
structures.
So anti-seismic would be anti or earthquake proof structures.
And so they're doing this by like, have you ever seen people build structures using like
concrete bags or bags that are full of rocks or something and they build it up and then
they don't take the rocks out of the bag, they just use, it's like a, the bag is like
an artificial brick that's full of rocks.
That's kind of what they're doing here.
This is like the beginning of Peruvians learning how to build anti-seismic structures.
And so I guess what happens here, and I'm not, I'm not super, super familiar with the
way Coral works.
I'm much more familiar with, you know, these giant megalithic sites that we'll get into,
that they, that are in Inca territory, may not have been built by the Incas, but this
is kind of where traditional archaeology says that ancient Indian culture, ancient South
American Peruvian culture is learning to build anti-seismic structures.
So this is going on at exactly the same time that Jozier and Emotep were alive.
So yeah, this is kind of the beginning of that.
Which was about 5,000 years ago?
Yeah, so Jozier and Emotep, I don't think anybody disputes when they lived the reason
being because of his necropolis, it says that was him.
You know, they're the hieroglyphs that are there.
It's just, it's amazing that like the grander pharaohs that come after him, there's not
like hard evidence that they actually existed, you know, it's just writings about them.
But yes, yeah, this is, this is happening exactly at the same time, and a little bit
before the construction of the Sakara necropolis in Egypt, basically exactly the same time.
Okay.
And the rocks that are underneath these things are there, are they just very soft stones?
Yeah.
Or how do they, how are they actually seismic?
So yeah, so I think, I think here they're not, maybe there's, maybe there's like a strong
foundation of some kind here, but really that evidence comes later on when you get to, when
you get to what they call, well, they call it like the Tiwanaku culture, Shavendeh Hantar
culture, or the Shaveen culture, and then the Incas, which the Incas, it's tough.
So what you're talking about is, now I haven't gone to see these in person, but this right
here, this may be Alente Tumbo or Sakse Waman, similar architecture, but you know, this,
you see this massive block down here to the bottom, to the bottom right.
A normal person, so I'm about five, 10, I'm not even, I'm not even half as tall as that
block.
Wow.
And another, maybe fifth of that block is, is under the ground, but the, but the foundations
beneath these structures, it's like a, it's like a soft foundation of, of smaller rocks.
So you would think like, like if you were, have you ever heard of the temple of, the
temple of Jupiter at Baalbeck, Lebanon?
Yeah.
Did they talk about that on, on their shows?
No, no, we didn't talk about that.
So the temple of Jupiter has these, I think it has the biggest artificial blocks on the
entire planet.
So the one's called like the Stone of the Pregnant Woman, which is, which is like sitting in
the quarry, but there's actually another one underneath it that's even bigger.
So these are estimated to be 12 to 1400 tons.
And they think that the Romans built it, but there's not very good evidence that the Romans
built it.
If it wasn't the Romans, it wasn't anybody before them.
So that's another compelling argument for a structure that's been there for, you know,
10,000 years potentially.
I mean, this is just something that's completely inexplicable.
And the civilization that they say built it, it's a hard argument to make that, that the
Romans built the, built these stones at Baalbeck.
But anyways, so the stones at Baalbeck, they're actually not the foundation.
You would think that these massive stones are the foundation, but they're, but they're
not.
Giant solid foundation there.
And the stones are put on top of the foundation.
But when there's earthquakes, it cracks the whole thing because it's completely solid.
Well, here, somehow these ancient American, ancient Indian cultures realized that having
a solid foundation would crack and basically destabilize the entire structure.
So they build these massive, I'm talking about, these are some of the massive, some of the
most massive stones that are used in the entire planet, except in case for places like
the Temple of Jupiter at Baalbeck.
I don't even, I'm not even sure that in Egypt you're seeing blocks that are this big.
And these are made out of, these are made out of granite, I believe.
Some of them are, some of them are basalt, but a lot of these are granite.
So the, these ancient Indian cultures are using exactly the same type of stone.
And I'm not sure that there's examples of diorite.
There may be, Ben may know something more about that.
I'm not sure that there's examples of diorite, but they're using the same stones with the
exact same hardness as what you're seeing in ancient Egypt.
So they're building these on soft foundations.
And so I think, I think this is the same site from a different angle.
So I mean, some of these are as, as some of these blocks are as big as a, as, as a volt
wagon. And, and then more of the block goes underneath the ground.
And then beneath that is a soft foundation so that when there's an earthquake, that
entire structure will shake and move and settle back into place.
And in between these blocks, so let's, let's take you to, here's, here's a
tower at Machu Picchu.
They, maybe this was an astronomical tower, but there's not really like a, so
what's interesting is I believe that that's one window and you can see how it has
the knobs on them.
Those knobs are seen all throughout the world.
And, and there, nobody quite knows why this, so the knobs are like another pretty
compelling argument that a lot of people really dive into.
These knobs are seen in Egypt.
They're seen in Baalbek.
They're seen in ancient China.
They're seen in Mexico.
They're seen all over the planet on these giant megalithic stones.
I wouldn't say that these are giant megalithic stones, but they're, these are
huge stones and these are made out of granite.
And as you can see, there's no mortar in between them.
They're perfectly fit to each other.
So these were master stone masons.
What were the knobs for?
Do they speculate?
Well, I would think, I would think that a reasonable guess would be somehow to
move these stones.
But what's interesting is that they're not on every stone, but knobs that look exactly
like that are seen all throughout the world.
And there isn't really a, there isn't really a definitive, great explanation for
what they were used.
You would think that maybe they would have some kind of rope that they would tie
around it to use as leverage to be able to move the stones more easily.
Right.
But there's no, it doesn't seem to be a systematic way in which the knobs are
carved out onto the blocks.
It's almost, it's very random.
And, and I don't think that this is, it's obviously not natural.
So that's, that's one of the, that's one of the more compelling mysteries that ties
a lot of sites around the world together.
And an interesting thing about these sites is that they have construction.
Well, these are some of the scoop marks that, yeah, yeah.
So, so these are some, this is some evidence of, of like scoop markings, almost
where like the block is, it's like a, I've seen it described as like, if you were
to stack a bunch of, if you were to stack a bunch of cinnamon rolls in a
microwave and heat them up and they swell up next to each other.
Well, there are legitimate archaeologists, like Dr.
Ed Barnhart, who's like a mentor of mine, who he thinks that these blocks
may have been somehow melted into each other.
And this is the Geopolymer theory.
Well, no, I don't think, I don't think that he, I don't think that he believes
in the Geopolymer theory.
I think that that that's based in like that, like they were liquid and poured
into place.
Right, like cast.
Yeah.
It's a little bit different.
This is a little bit different.
So what he thinks, and I don't have, I don't have any photos of what I'm
about to mention, but there's evidence of, of roads that are coming from
these massive megalithic Peruvian sites, such as Machu Picchu, Cusco,
Cusco, Peru, people think of it as a modern day city, but it was, it was one
of the, it was one of the citadels, one of the capitals of the Inco world.
So the Inco, whether they built these sites or not knew that that was a place
of importance.
That's an ancient city.
Cusco is, but the modern day city is built on top of it.
Right.
But every time there's an earthquake, the modern day city falls down and the
megalithic ancient city still sits there.
It's been surviving this entire time.
That's actually happened two other times in the 1650s.
The Spanish, you know, they arrive in Cusco, they melt down all the gold.
The Inco were master goldsmiths.
So they had these giant gardens with life-sized trees, life-sized
llamas, animals that were in there, all made out of, all made out of gold.
And, and the Spanish chroniclers that were there, they write down that it was
some of the most majestic sites that they'd ever seen.
Well, Spain's in a really tough place economically at the time.
So the Spanish, they melt down all of the Inco gold.
The insides of their temples are lined with gold plates.
And they have a, they have like a, it's like a, it's like a golden, almost
like a giant coin of some sort.
And I believe it survived, but it depicts their God, the fanged deity,
which we'll get into because that leads to all of these ancient Peruvian
civilizations that people are fascinated, that people, guys like Ben are
fascinated by, Graham Hancock is fascinated by.
All of this is connected to a civilization that's never been found
that exists in the Amazon.
Well, hopefully we'll get into that at some point.
But anyways, so the Spanish, they tried to cover up the city of Cusco.
They take down all the gold, all the Inco gold that was there.
They take it all down and they tried to dismantle these, like the city
that's built out of granite that's there.
Then they can't do it.
So then about in the 16, early 1600s, they just build their own city of
Cusco on top, you know, the Spanish, they've killed off all of the native
Peruvian people or enslaved them or whatever.
Now they're all indentured people living around.
So the Spaniards that are living there build their own city on top.
Well, massive earthquake comes in and the ancient city of Cusco is built
on a soft foundation that allows it to move and roll a little bit.
And then it settles back into place and there's not mortar that's going
to crack and separate and allow the blocks to fall out because the blocks
are placed perfectly together.
So the entire Spanish city of Cusco falls and then the original
megalithic city is underneath.
Well, then they build it again.
And then 300 years later in 1950, another, you know, like class nine
earthquake comes in, knocks the whole city down and then the ancient city
is still standing there.
So yeah, it's, it's pretty amazing.
So, no, this theory that Dr. Barnhart proposes is not a geopolymer theory.
What they found is they found archaeological evidence of ancient
roads that lead out of these sites like Machu Picchu, Cusco, Sacsay-Waman,
Alente-Tumbo, and there are roads that go out of these sites and from
places like Chavin de Hantar.
Have you ever heard of that?
So Chavin de Hantar is, we'll get into that.
And then, and then from Tiwanaku.
Tiwanaku is a big mystery.
Ben's got a video on Tiwanaku.
Right.
It's, I believe Arthur Poznanski is the archaeologist who, he was the first
guy that proposed that Tiwanaku is of great antiquity, you know, up to 12,000,
years old, but they have found ancient roads that are leading out of these
sites into the desert south of, into the desert south of, of these civilizations
into the deserts of Chile and around the area of the Nazca lines.
And so in there, there are these acid deposits and these acid deposits,
scientists have proven that these acid deposits can melt and fuse granite.
And that ties into, yeah, that ties, that ties into a lot of the local legends
that the indigenous people have, have said about the area that, that they're God
like used acids to mold clay to build people.
And so what they're finding, and this is like a frontier of archaeology.
There's only so many people looking into this.
And Peru is, Peru and Chile, they're not very wealthy countries.
And the very last thing that gets money is archaeology.
So this is kind of, this is like, this is like the outer edge of archaeology
that's being studied right now.
But there are like acid wells and acid mines that are in the deserts out there
that have acid that's powerful enough that many archaeologists believe
to fuse these granite blocks together.
And that literally ties into exactly what the local Tewanaku people
who still carry on their culture from these sites.
That's like exactly the oral legends that they, that they believe.
And oral legends is like, you know, a lot of, a lot of dogmatic archaeologists,
especially in the old world, in the new world, it's not like this.
In the new world, people really value what the locals say
because there's kernels of truth in there that are like vital.
It's the heart of what people are looking for.
And so, you know, like the story of Atlantis, that's based on it.
That's based on an oral legend.
You know, that's, that's based on what Plato told his students that Solon,
you know, had passed down to him, that Solon visited St.
Tun, Egypt and what, 600 BC.
And they tell him that 9000 years before the civilization was destroyed.
That's 9600 years, boom, that ends up lining with the younger dryus.
There's something there, you know, regardless of what, of what any scientists
want to say, there's something there.
An oral tradition, a lot of times ends up being correct.
So oral tradition, in this case, eludes to some kind of acid being used
to build structures and they, and there's some somewhere in there,
which we know this isn't true, but that their gods use these acids to mold
clay to build human beings as well.
Which also ties in, which is like similar to the Christian story of how we
were made from the dust of the earth.
And that kind of ties into like the white God, Veracosha, who was in South
America, that whisked people out of the dust of the earth and everything.
It's, it is really interesting that as you study this, you start to see like,
wow, that Veracosha in some ways kind of sounds like old world gods, you know.
And so there's some loose connections there that I don't deeply study, but you
pick up on a lot of these things and notice some really strange similarities.
What do you think about that Veracosha guy?
I read a lot about that in Graham Hancock's book, but I don't, I don't
think I've ever heard of anyone talk about that outside of his book.
Yeah.
Figuring out the gods.
So Veracosha is an interesting character that hasn't been fully figured out, but
he's known as a lot of different things.
Veracosha, the white God, the weeping God, the staff God, but my mentor and I,
Dr. Barnhart, we refer to him as the fanged deity.
This is, that's something that he kind of coined and I'm, you know, tagged along with it.
And so the fanged deity, I think I've got some, I think Dr.
Barnhart came up with that.
I think, I think that's, I think that's the term that he coins for.
Those scoot marks are insane.
I'm trying to find the, aha, here we go.
So here's, this is an example of the fanged deity.
I've got to have some other examples in there.
So they say that this was Veracosha?
Yes, it appears to be the same God.
So this is like the, this is kind of similar to like a sun disc that you would
see in Egypt, but it's like a disc that depicts a fanged deity.
If you look close, he has, he has fanged.
And so what's interesting is what's kind of some revolutionary ideas that come
from the ancient Americas is that, you know, people think that monotheism, the,
the worship of one singular God comes from ancient Egypt when Akhenaten declares
himself the one true God, Aten.
But that's, you know, that's 1400 BC.
Well, way before that, the ancient South Americans were, were worshiping one God.
And it was the staff God, Veracosha, the fanged deity, all that is the same person
known as different things throughout different civilizations.
So, yeah, I think, I think for sure he existed.
Is that all made out of gold?
Yeah, this is all made out of gold.
So this is the gold, a lot of this is kind of the gold of El Dorado that the
Spaniards were looking for.
And I'm going to see, I think I have some other photos of this somewhere in here.
Ah, here we go.
I think, I think this is like a gauntlet that's worn around your arm.
You can really see the fanged deity clear here.
Oh, wow.
Now, this is found at Chavinde-Hontar, which is where, according to some of the
archaeological evidence, this, I believe this is the early, the earliest, this is
around 1000 BC, maybe a little bit before that.
This is the earliest evidence.
I actually have it written on here of how old Chavinde-Hontar is.
Yeah.
So 1200 BC to about 400 BC, we know that, that is when these guys were populated.
And now their culture, very likely from some, from some scant evidence of, of like
some scant evidence of oral tradition, biological material.
And like religious cultural material that they found kind of going in a little bit
further into the Amazon.
They see like the remnants of a culture that's coming out of the Amazon.
And it ends up in Chavinde-Hontar, which is an ancient Peruvian site.
And then they, and then these guys are worshiping this staff God, this, this, this,
they call it like the staff God, some people call it varicotia.
It's easier to call it the fanged deity because they, every time he's depicted,
he has fangs.
And even in Tiwanaku, which Arthur Poznansky, which Arthur Poznansky theorized was,
you know, as old as 12,000 to 5,000 years, or I'm sorry, 12,000 to 15,000 years ago,
there is a giant statue, like a monolithic statue that's standing there.
And so if you look at some of these depictions of the fanged deity and some,
and some it's easier to see than others, like this, this guy right here, I think
this is called the Ramundi stone.
So you can see he's, he's got fangs.
He looks like some kind of, I mean, he's a fanged deity, but he's grasping what
they think are stocks of corn.
And so corn was vital to ancient South Americans and Central Americans.
And what's interesting about that corner maze is what they, is what it was
known as in Central America.
So that was the, that was vital for their life.
It was, it was immensely important.
So every time you see a cultural religious statue that that's going to be
an ancient Indian or ancient South American culture, it's almost always going
to be a fanged God grabbing onto stocks of corn.
And so that was their God that they worship.
And there's all kinds of stories like in ancient Peru, there's an oral legend
that Veracotia came down and told the people of the area.
Now, this is, this is a legend that we don't really know the origins of it.
But they say that Veracotia came down and he met some people that were on
like the beaches of Peru and he told them to flee to the highest mountains.
And I think there's, I think there's a name given for the mountain, but I
can't think of it right now.
And he tells them to flee to the highest mountain.
He's going to flood the wicked world.
And so there are people who, they all flee to the highest, they all flee to the
highest mountain and this massive flood comes in and destroys all of the
civilization around them.
The people come back down and Veracotia comes back out from the jungle
and creates people out of the dust of the earth, almost exactly in the same
way that you hear like God in the Garden of Eden.
He, you know, he's walking in the garden, he's walking in the forest that's there
and he creates people out of the dust of the earth.
And I should say that before that, there's a story that Veracotia appears
from the forest and he's, and he's weeping because he's been walking
through the forest witnessing these, these evil people.
And he's like a light-skinned white man is kind of what it's referred to.
Like an ordex looking.
I think so.
And, but they knew about, they knew about these lighter-skinned people
before Spaniards ever arrived.
So it's, it's, it's an interesting story.
But yeah, he, he comes out of the jungle and he's weeping from all the evil
that's in the world and he tells a group of, like a small group of good people,
kind of similar to Noah's Ark, flee to the top of the highest mountain.
I'm going to flood all of this.
So they flee to the top, they flee to the top of the highest mountain.
They have all the provisions that they need there to survive.
Supposedly, you know, supposedly.
And then when the flooding subsides, they go back down and he comes out
and creates new people and civilization emerges again.
So there's a lot of really interesting, a lot of really interesting stories
about Veracotia, the hard part about ancient central and South America,
which is really my, really what I've been focusing on for a few years now,
is that a lot of these, you know, when Spain showed up,
they needed to establish complete dominance over the cultures that were here.
And so they did that by destroying the oral religion, by destroying their
or their oral, oral traditions, their religions, their, their legends,
all of their writing, like we haven't gotten into Central America yet.
But in Central America, we know that during the time of contact,
there are records that the Aztecs were producing about 480,000 copies of paper.
And so they were producing this paper before the Spanish ever arrived.
In a year?
Yeah, I'm sorry, four hundred thousand, four hundred and eighty
thousand copies of paper in one year.
And they were writing on all of that and they wrote densely.
And so we know that that Mesoamerican, the Mesoamerican writing system goes back
probably three to four thousand years to like proto Olmec times.
So we know that the Olmec were writing at least a little bit,
but there's not a lot of research that's done.
And it's really hard to find these sites because they're so old or in the middle
of the jungle, they get covered up really easily.
Like, like the soil deposition causes things to sink, quote unquote,
into the soil much more quickly.
But we found evidence of ancient writing that goes back three to four
thousand years in Mesoamerica.
So the Aztecs are like sitting on the shoulders of giants, right?
I mean, they've got, they've got, you know, in fully fledged writing systems
and they're writing down their history.
Well, what's really interesting is we know that the Maya were doing that more
so the Maya were more sophisticated, more educated.
They had a, they had a reign over Mesoamerica that lasted, you know,
two to like three thousand years.
And so that give me the official timeline of the Maya.
OK, so, OK, so I'll tell you this episode is brought to you by Blutue.
Let's talk about sex, fellas.
Do you remember the days when you were always ready to go?
Now you can increase your performance and get that extra confidence boost in bed.
Listen up. Blutue.com.
Blutue is a unique online service that delivers the same active ingredients
as Viagra and Cialis, except it comes in a chewable tablet
and it's only a fraction of the cost.
The beautiful thing is you can take them any time day or night
so you can plan ahead and always be ready when that special opportunity arises.
The process is super simple.
Just sign up at Blutue.com, consult with one of their licensed medical providers.
And once you're approved, you'll receive your prescription within days.
And the best part is it's all done online.
So no visits to doctor's offices, no awkward conversations
and no waiting in line at the pharmacy.
Blutue's tablets are made right here in the USA
and they're prepared and shipped directly to your door in a discreet package.
Of course, first impressions are very important,
but no one ever talks about the lasting impressions.
Women say there's nothing sexier than confidence
and Blutue will give you the confidence where it counts.
Try Blutue for free by using the promo code concrete at checkout.
It's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E and all you got to pay is $5 shipping.
That's Blutue.com using the promo code concrete at checkout
to get your first month free.
Visit Blutue.com for more important details and safety information.
And we thank Blutue for sponsoring this episode.
Back to the show.
So Proto Olmec, like when Olmec culture is starting to come to fruition,
you're looking at like maybe the very, very beginnings as 2000 BC.
So not that long after the Great Pyramids in Egypt are built, right?
Are the Olmec the first civilizations that we're aware of
in South and Central America?
Not South America, but Central America.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
So they begin at about 1600 BC
is when we start seeing some megalithic monuments,
these giant heads that are like the size of this entire table
to the taller than the ceiling, you know?
Made out of basalt.
Made out of basalt, basalt, however you pronounce it.
And so...
How do you pronounce it?
Basalt? I've never heard anyone say basalt.
I say basalt, yeah.
Basalt sounds cooler.
That's what I heard when I was there.
So, but yeah, so they're made out of basalt
and that's when we see like the pyramids of Leventa
and the necropolis of Leventa.
And that's when we see all of these sites being constructed.
I'll pull up some Olmec stuff real quick.
So here's one of the heads being excavated.
So these heads weigh anywhere from about six to 40 tons.
Jesus.
Yeah, I guess now would be a good time.
So like let's go Olmec, Maya, Aztec.
And so the Olmecs, these guys exist from about 1600 BC
until about 300 BC.
So they have a really long reign in their,
of their reign in Central America.
And these guys, they seem to establish the idea
of divine kingship all across Central America.
So this idea that kings are gods,
like they're the descendants of gods.
The Maya then pick this up later.
And so these guys are constructing.
So here's one that's under the ground.
So when this was discovered,
I think this head was discovered in the 1800s
and then it was officially excavated.
Like this photo is probably the late 1920s.
And so, you know, maybe just the top of the head
was uncovered, but it's really tough to find these sites.
And I think right now.
And where is this exact?
This is in, I believe this right here is Veracruz, Mexico.
Veracruz, Mexico.
Yeah.
Veracruz, Mexico.
Just like the top of the heads was left uncovered.
If, if even, I'm not sure the exact story.
I'm not sure if it's exactly recorded
as to how this farmer, his name was Jose Maria
that found this head.
And I'm not sure if the story like is recorded
as far as what he was doing to find it.
Like in Gobekli Tepe, that was found by a farmer as well.
Who was out there.
I think he's trying to like cultivate his land.
Ding, ding.
He hits these, I'm not sure what they're made out of.
Maybe limestone or something,
but he hits these structures and then uncovers it.
Farmers find stuff all the time, all over the world.
Here's another one.
I think this may be the same head.
So they've flattened out the area.
They've excavated them.
And then that may be Jose Maria posed next to it,
the guy who found it.
And then here's another head that was found.
So.
Are they connected to anything?
Are they connected to bodies?
Are they just heads?
No, it's just, it's just a head as far as, as far as we know.
And is it, obviously they were moved by something.
They were.
Oh yeah.
Oh, this is, this is crazy.
This is this literally the exact same mystery
that we see in ancient Egypt.
Okay.
These guys established themselves alongside
the biggest rivers in their area.
So the reason that, that dynastic Egypt is so powerful
is because they were able to cultivate
a massive flowing river that like a very powerful river
and they were able to learn how to cultivate
the land around them.
They were masters at cultivation
and they built massive empires because of,
just because of the Nile.
The Nile was the source of their life.
These guys had the exact same thing.
They had two different rivers
and they harnessed the production of maize,
which maize is like corn is everything
to Central and South Americans.
They harnessed, they harnessed maize.
And so they had all the wealth of Central America
at the time that they reigned.
Now what's really interesting is these,
all of their wealth, all of their riches,
everything that they had was totally based
on what gave you life.
So they had access to the water.
They had access to the food they were able to farm.
These basalt monuments, they're jade artifacts.
So in Central America, these people weren't mining down
far enough to mine gold out of the ground,
but they could get jade.
They could get like other precious stones.
So jade was seen as gold to them.
All of their precious artifacts that we find in their tombs
do not come from Olmec Heartland.
They come from hundreds of miles away.
Or in the case of the Olmec heads,
the basalt basalt comes from up to about 50 miles away.
The problem is it's not 50 miles away along,
just like it's not along a river.
It's not a straight path.
It's through jungles, mountains and rivers.
There is literally no evidence
as to how they were able to move these.
And it's almost exactly the same mystery
as in the King's Chamber of the Great Pyramid,
we see the rose granite stones that are in there.
The rose granite stones weigh anywhere
from 20 to 80 tons.
And in the ceiling, some of those columns
are like 80 tons apiece.
There's no explanation as to how they were moved
from the Aswan quarries, which are 500 miles south
in Aswan, Egypt, up to the Giza Plateau.
And then carried up into the pyramid.
This is damn near the exact same mystery
because they had to be, they were mined out of the,
they found the quarries just like the same way
they found the Aswan quarries in Egypt.
But they were mined out of the volcanic belt
of Veracruz.
And so basalt is like volcanic rock.
And so they mined out these giant boulders.
Now what's interesting is they believe
that these were carved on the site that they were found.
So they were carved when they arrived.
So you may pull up like Leventa Olmec altar.
If you just look up Olmec altar, you'll see it.
In here, you can see that there's chunks of this missing.
And so there were these giant boulders
and then they carved them out.
So I mean, you're looking at monuments that weigh
anywhere from about 10 to north of 50 tons
when they're moved, okay?
And they're being moved through the jungle.
They're being moved through mountains, swamps and rivers.
And archeologists just, yeah, yeah.
So any one of these first ones.
So you can see that it has like a lip that comes over.
And so imagine all of the weight that was in the stone.
That's a really cool thing that we'll talk about in a second.
There's catamountes in there.
Yeah, okay, so look at how far the lip comes over.
Imagine all the weights that used to be on the stone
before it was all removed to get what I'm saying.
So imagine how heavy that was.
Now this, I just did a video on this.
I wanna say this is about 32 tons.
So the original block I'm gonna estimate
is near about 40 tons.
And dude, there's hundreds of these monuments,
hundreds of them all over the Olmec heartland.
And how do we move them?
Oh man, it's an arduous process.
Like they've tried to move.
You need cranes to move 40 tons?
Do you need a crane to move 40 tons?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You need a crane to pick it up,
to put it on a truck that can lift it.
But what's really interesting is they were moving
like Toltec monuments in like Northern, Central, Mexico,
up kind of near the US border.
They were moving these monuments
and the trucks were breaking down
because the trucks couldn't handle the weight.
So this is very similar.
So what they say is,
what they say is that,
oh, these were balsa river rafts.
And so balsa is like a type of wood there.
And they say, oh, these were balsa river rafts
that move these.
But there's a huge problem with that.
My mentor, Dr. Ed Barnhart,
he goes down to Mexico with a nautical engineer
who's really interested in this.
And this guy studies it, he studies the weight of them
and he creates like an algorithm spreadsheet type of thing
where you can insert a hypothetical size of your Olmec head.
So on average, the smallest one is six tons.
The largest one is 42 tons, okay?
But that's not including all the weight
that was on there before the head was carved
out of the stone, right?
And it was transported before it was carved
because they found the remnants of like,
where they would like chip a block of the basalt off
and it would fall on the ground.
Those remnants are still there
and they're able to like, they can say,
okay, this piece of the stone was put here
so we know that this head was carved right at this spot.
Got it.
That make sense?
Got it.
And do they have evidence of tools they used?
No.
No.
No, this is another mystery.
But basalt is a much softer stone.
Like if you and I had adequate chisels,
we could chisel this stuff out.
How do we move it though?
That has never been proven.
So they say it was done on balsa rafts.
So this nautical engineer that's traveling
with Dr. Ed Barnhart, he creates this algorithm
where you can insert the hypothetical size and weight
of your omic, of your hypothetical omic head.
And then he was like, he was like,
how big does the balsa raft have to be
to actually transport it?
What he found is insane.
I've never seen anybody talk about this before.
So these rivers that are in the omic heartlands,
some of them are like truly massive, wide, long rivers.
What he found was that even if you made the raft
50 feet long and 50 feet wide,
it's so big that it couldn't make it all the way down
even the narrow parts of the river.
If you put a five ton omic head on a raft
that's bigger than the river itself,
it would sink the raft.
The smallest head is six tons.
Well, there it goes out there.
So how do you move the 42 ton La Cobata head?
So the biggest one, you might look this up to,
the La and then Cobata omic head.
And so what's interesting about him
is he's the only omic head that has his eyes closed.
Oh, click on the one where it's a person standing next to it.
There's a diagram on there.
Oh, there's a person standing next to him.
So some of the omic heads, I was taller than them
when I walked up to him.
I'm five, 10.
I was taller than the head.
I could like barely see the top of the head.
Think about how tall this guy is.
I mean, he's gotta be nine, 10 feet tall.
And so there's no explanation.
That's interesting.
You don't see the perfect cemetery that you see in Egypt.
No, no, you don't see that.
What you do see though is that the quality of jade polishing
and they make, I think they make obsidian mirrors
in the omic heartland.
And these were found in the 1970s or maybe the 1980s,
I think 1981, and they're not really published again
after that.
I haven't seen any modern photos.
They're probably sitting in a cardboard box
at the bottom of a museum somewhere.
The mirrors that they made rival the reflection
and polish quality and symmetry of any other mirrors
that were being made in the world at the time.
They were making them out of obsidian.
But it's like it was just never picked up again.
They found it, they said, wow, that's really cool.
And there's only one photo I can find of it
is a guy, he's holding it in his hand,
he takes a photo of it and it's a reflection of himself.
But it's like the worst photo I've ever seen
cause it was taken in 1981, either at night
or inside of a tomb or something.
And so yeah, but you don't see not an Olmec architecture.
Okay, so stop right there, go back.
So these are the column tombs.
Now this is interesting, I didn't know about this
before I visited Leventa.
And so I stood like right there next to that column tomb.
I showed this in my most recent video,
Lost Knowledge of the Olmecs on YouTube.
So these columns come from the same basalt quarries
that are in the volcanic belt of Veracruz.
And these columns are used to create,
it's like a caged tomb that they would
bury their kings inside of.
And these columns weigh half a ton to two tons apiece.
Even these, if you tried to transport these
would sink any of the balsa river rafts
that they proposed were used.
Just one of these columns right here?
No, no, no, no, no.
But if you tried, like I'm thinking,
I don't know what, maybe half of those,
they put on one boat, you know?
I mean, you put half of those on one boat
and then you sink the boat, you know what I mean?
How could these things have been transported?
There isn't an explanation.
And it's not like the Mexican Institute of Archaeology
tries to hide this, they just don't have an explanation
for it at all.
And in some ways, there's kind of the same attitude of like,
well, we don't really know how to explain it.
So we're just not really gonna address it at all.
You know, a lot of the same mysteries
that are in Egypt that aren't addressed,
it's kind of the same thing here, you know?
There are a lot of archeologists that repeat
the explanation of how these were moved on balsa rafts
and they all quietly know it's wrong.
Did they have the wheel back then?
They did have the wheel.
So what's really interesting is so there's a misconception
that ancient Americans did not have knowledge of the wheel.
Like they say that, well, ancient Americans,
they didn't have the knowledge of the wheel,
but they also weren't able to, you know,
they didn't have the knowledge of the wheel,
but they also weren't able to move megalithic giant monuments
with the help of beasts of burden.
So beast of burden is gonna be like a horse or an ox,
something that you would strap, you know,
something heavy to and have that quote unquote beast
move the object for you.
Well, they didn't have horses before the Spanish arrived.
They didn't have ox before the Spanish arrived.
They didn't have these, you know,
animals that they could kind of enslave
to do their work for them.
Now, and then they say, and then they say,
well, then look at the monuments that they built.
How did they do all this without the wheel,
without knowing about the wheel,
without these beasts of burden?
Well, what adds to the mystery
is that they did know about the wheel.
There are children's toys in Central and South America
that are made out of like a little llama or a jaguar
and you can roll it back and forth.
So like the child's toy of an animal
that's on rollers on wheels was created
in Central and South America.
That does not come from the old world.
Like we would think that that would be
like a Western type of thing.
No, that comes from ancient Central
and South American children's toys were used as wheels.
So they knew that you could make something to roll.
The problem is, where are you gonna roll it here?
It's swamp, like where are you gonna roll things here?
You have dense swamps.
There's not even, like if we had a car
and we dropped a car right in there,
you could drive the car about five feet, you know?
Before Westerners came in and chopped everything down
and built roads, you might be able to drive a car five feet
and then you have to stop.
There's no reason to have a wheel in this world.
But then that's the big thing.
Those giant boulders that I showed that are in Peru.
Dude, some of those are on top of the mountain
at Machu Picchu.
And that is like a straight vertical ascend.
I'm trying to think of the original explorer
who quote unquote discovered the site.
He's like the first guy that officially documented it.
He was ascending up on foot and he fell down
and rolled like 20 feet because it's so hard
just to go up on foot.
But you have blocks there that are taller
than the ceiling, 12 feet wide, three feet thick,
made out of solid granite that sit up on top of this.
I mean, it's just, dude, I mean,
in some ways when I talk about stuff like this,
I'm like, no wonder people think aliens did this.
Now, I don't think aliens did it.
I think it's all human ingenuity
with maybe there's some kind of a truth to humans
being aligned to some kind of a higher power of some sort.
That seems to be a religious trend
in Central and South America.
So in the Amazon, there are people all the time
who go down there and they take ayahuasca
and they have experiences and encounters
with angelic beings that other people have,
other people say that they've encountered as well.
Now, this is getting in like real friend stuff,
but sometimes I think about like our very existence
and how enigmatic it is.
And I think like it would make more sense
if there were beings that were higher than us.
I don't mean aliens, but I don't know.
I mean, maybe something spiritual,
but look at what ancient cultures did
in the name of their gods all throughout world history.
They were all into psychedelics.
They were all into plants that could put you in a,
I don't know if you call it a higher state of consciousness,
but a different state of consciousness.
And they all have accounts of interacting with these beings.
And sometimes I wonder, did these ancient people,
I mean, clearly they were aware of something
that we weren't aware of.
One example I saw just this morning,
have you ever seen these videos of tribes
when people explore in the Amazon?
Sometimes there are videos,
even today it's becoming more popular.
There are people who will go down into Western Peru,
probably near where Paul Rosalie is,
and they'll go out into the jungle
and they'll get real close to these tribes.
And they'll have these cameras that like
with these long lenses and they're watching people.
And sometimes the tribes people will see them
and they'll just sprint off in the jungle and disappear.
Well, the same thing is happening in Papua New Guinea.
Have you ever heard of that island?
It's a little island like in Indonesia, that area.
And there are tribes out there.
And when they sing as a group,
and when that, it's like the hymns that they have
are connected to something that's different than like,
it's like our spirits in the modern world are so dead.
They're connected to something beyond,
like something natural is what I'm trying to say.
They're connected to something natural.
And when they sing, you can feel it in your soul
that what they're connected to is something natural.
It's like the jungle and the nature in the world
is singing through them, you know?
We could look this up like it like.
Has anyone ever recorded these?
Yeah, I mean, I saw a video of it on TikTok this morning.
And you hear the song and you're like,
all the comments, all the people are like,
this is something different.
Everybody who listens to this recognizes this.
Now, this is getting into like little bit of woo stuff
that I don't actually really talk about
unless it's a conversation like this,
because I can't prove it, you know?
And I want to be like a respectable educator.
But, you know, I mean, yeah, I really do think
that there's a very spiritual aspect.
Where can we find it if you wanted to look for it?
Man, if you just look up.
Only on TikTok?
Yeah, maybe on YouTube if you looked up like Papua
New Guinea indigenous person singing, I don't know.
Or Papua New Guinea native person singing.
And are they, can they get up close to these people?
Or do they?
Oh yeah, yeah, they're nice people.
Oh, they're, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, click on that first one.
Here we go.
When they walk back, they sing through the forest.
Wow.
That's amazing, isn't it?
They're making all those background noises too.
Yeah, I think the guy on top, he kind of adds on to it a bit.
But when they walk back, they sing through the forest.
Imagine an entire tribe singing that.
So the context behind the first one that we listen to is what the guy on top is doing
is microphone is he's mimicking when an entire tribe of those guys get together.
They still produce music that sounds like that.
There's a guy who's the low, there's a guy who's the high, there's a guy who's doing
hymns in the background.
And when you look at that indigenous Papua New Guinea guy, he's probably not aware of
a lot of the quote, unquote, scientific advanced things that Westerners know about.
But that guy's tapped into something on our planet that's natural and that was meant to
be here and that wasn't polluted by our Western selfish, vain, progressed society that also
destroyed Rome.
You know what I mean?
There's something very natural out there.
And so when I study ancient civilizations, I see some evidence of, I mean, certainly
there's evidence of psychedelics, but certainly evidence of people that were tapped into something
that was beyond us.
One thing you could look up is look up where Jaguar, it's like a werewolf, but just Jaguar
instead of wolf.
It's in the, and then put Olmec.
So this idea of a were Jaguar, and this is something that I haven't seen Dr. Barnhart
talk about, but this is kind of getting to my own theory, is there are stories of people
who do ayahuasca and other strong hallucinogens in the jungles of Central and South America,
and they see Jaguars during their trance and then some people even turn into a Jaguar.
They're seeing through the eyes of a Jaguar, or like possessing a Jaguar, becoming that.
And so some of the ancient Central and South Americans believed that when they were seeing
a Jaguar, they may have been seeing a god, seeing their ancestor, seeing a wizard, somebody
who is possessing the spirit of a Jaguar.
So they start, yeah, do the Jade mask that's one from the right, yeah, that one.
That's just a really good depiction.
So they have, I'm talking about hundreds of these, dude.
And so they really believed that their shamans were becoming Jaguars, that they were connecting
with the nature world around them.
Now what do you see that's similar to this that you see in the Fang Deity?
It's almost the same thing.
I mean, the Fang Deity is very likely a Jaguar god that ruled over South America.
And the evidence shows, like relative dating, cultural evidence, biological evidence shows
that somewhere in the Amazon, at some point, I mean, this could be 8,000 years ago.
This could be even 30,000 years ago, because they're finding caves in the Amazon that were
inhabited 30,000 years ago, way before people thought that people were supposed to be in
the Amazon.
And so the Amazon is very likely the fertile, in my opinion, the fertile crescent of high
culture throughout Central America, or throughout South America, and then it carries up to Central
America as well.
Wherever they found these caves exactly?
The southeastern side of the Amazon.
So a lot of the archeological work that's done are on sites that are kind of on the
edges of the Amazon.
People don't go directly to the center and start doing excavations.
So they kind of start on the outside and go in, but they may never make it to the center
of the Amazon.
It's like 2 million square miles or something crazy.
Yeah, I mean, it's almost impossible to traverse.
But there's one archeologist, his name escapes me right now, but he has been down in the
Amazon his entire life and has found multiple cities.
And these are cities that are made out of earthen mounds.
And he's in the same area.
He's on the western edge of the Amazon, exactly where Paul is at.
And the thing about it is you're not going to go out into the Amazon and find stone structures
in that part of the Amazon because it's all clay on the ground.
So what they would do is they'd have these buckets and they'd build like earthen mounds
and pyramids in the Amazon.
And they would build these canals to each other and they'd build these raised streets
so that it rains so much that you can walk on a road without it being flooded.
They also built their houses on top of mounds and they built their gardens and farms on
top of mounds.
And then when it would rain, the little canals and aqueducts that they would build, they
had these little boats and they would sail to other cities in the center of the Amazon
through artificial rivers that they had created.
And these cities are being found all over the place.
I'll show you.
I have a couple of photos here.
Now what have they carbon dated things inside these caves to say that there was people there
30,000 years ago?
Yes.
So in this cave, in the cave that I'm talking about, you could look up like 30,000-year-old
cave found in southeastern Brazil.
So here's one example of these cities.
So what they found is like on the surface, there's not a lot to see, but all throughout
this entire area, they're finding evidence of homesteads.
But a lot of these homesteads were just built out of wood.
I mean, they were wood, thatched roofed homes.
But giant settlements full of millions of people.
And so you can see these depressions.
What's thought is that these were kind of like moats and so they held water and it allowed
the water to slowly seep over onto the center area to feed their crops.
The Egyptians did exactly this, this exact same thing.
And then they would also have these little boats that they would sail to.
So they have these giant straight lines that go all the way across the jungle and like
the lowlands on the outside of the jungle where there's not trees.
And they could sail to other cities just on these little rafts in the middle of the jungle.
Now what's thought is that these may just be satellite towns that are on the outside
of the Amazon rainforest and that somewhere deeper in there, very likely, I mean Lidar
is already showing that these exist, we're very likely going to see bigger earthen structures
like massive giant pyramids and stone structures as you get away from the western Amazon where
it's all clay.
You get closer to the center and closer to the eastern side.
You're going to find more like stone in the ground.
And so they've already done Lidar scans that show in the Mato Grosso region of like southeastern
Brazil exactly where Percy Fawcett.
So in his expeditions in the Amazon, his first expedition he was trying just to map
the river, I think, to establish a border around like Brazil and Bolivia.
I think that was his first thing.
And then when he was there, he had grown a distaste for the aristocrats that were in
England who looked down on native people in the Americas.
And he grew to love the native people because he saw something in them kind of like what
we're talking about that guy in Papua New Guinea.
His people are connected to something else.
There's something else, you know, he used it like one of the first guys that realized
that the way that they cultivated, the way that they built their cities, the way that
they cultivated their crops was all mathematical in nature, that they knew about math, that
they knew some things about, special things about science and geometry, about tracking
the sun.
They had like calendars as well, which are not calendars, but they had clocks that they
would build into the ground where depending on where the shadow was, they could tell what
time of year it was and when the next seasons were coming.
And he was a guy who maybe not was the first person to actually discover these things,
but he popularized them.
And so he's at his horse dyes, his horse dyes, and then they like eat his horse or whatever
and at this place called Dead Horse Camp.
And he writes a letter back to his wife that says he was like in the area that I'm going
down now and in the model grocery region or whatever, he's like very likely I'm going
to find the entrance to Zed, which is this lost city that he's looking for, which aligns
to some of the oral traditions around there that like there were people all throughout
South America.
There were probably multiple of these massive cities full of lots of gold and wealth because
he's hearing about this, man, I may be mispronouncing this for getting the name entirely wrong,
but there was a city called like Ziputli, something like that.
And he just called it Zee.
And then there's also the story of El Dorado, which is on the northwest side.
So he's on the southeast side.
So there's multiple stories of these cities that sometimes get jumbled together.
Like people think he was looking for El Dorado, but he wasn't.
He was looking for a different city with its own legend.
So he descends down into the model grocery region of Brazil, goes missing.
Nobody ever sees him again.
97 years later, they run big Lidar scans over that area and they find a city exactly in
the area that he went missing and it's complete with a step pyramid.
It's complete with its own temples, its own city grid layout that they speculate may be
aligned to certain constellations that are in the sky, which would have meant that they
cleared out the land that they lived in.
Like they chopped down all the trees so that they could study the stars.
And they found aqueducts and highway systems that lead deeper into the central part of
the jungle.
But you need the money to fly these planes.
Like it's not as easy as like you buy a drone that has a Lidar camera on it because those
are crap.
You need a Lidar camera on a plane that costs like $50,000 to take it out for one mission.
And I just don't think that there's the money there.
So that was just over a year and a half ago that they found that step pyramid and nobody
has walked there today.
Nobody has walked out there.
They haven't sent more Lidar drones out there, but they know there's a massive highway that's
going straight off into the jungle, definitely to another city, but it's so dense and it's
so remote and it's so far out there that nobody is crazy enough to do it for free.
You know what I mean?
Because the Brazilian government, they've got their own things going on.
They're not really worried.
Like what are they going to do?
A big part of if these places are even going to be explored and excavated is can they make
a tourist site out of it?
Can they bring people in to come look at it in the middle of the Amazon?
Hell no.
It's impossible.
You'd have to build a massive road straight through the Amazon to bring tourists there.
People who advocate for the Amazon literally do not want that to happen.
I don't want that to happen.
So it's, yeah, I mean, that's a frontier of archaeology, but very likely the origins
of South and Central American religion and culture come from somewhere deep inside of
the Amazon.
That's in a city civilization that's never been found.
Is there anyone out there that speculates that some of these stone structures or any
of these things that they found have been, they were made before the Younger Dryas?
Oh yeah, yeah.
So when you're looking at, okay, let's go to, I'll look at, let's go to some, let's
go to Megalithic South America.
Okay.
So this is an artist's depiction of what the site of Tiwanaku may have looked like.
So Tiwanaku is an Indian culture that lived in Bolivia.
Now we know that the Tiwanaku people of about 180 to 1080 lived at this site, but there
isn't a lot of evidence that they are the ones who constructed it.
Now these are some of the, these are made out of andesite, which I don't think andesite
is quite as hard as granite, but it's, but it's close.
I mean, these are very, very giant blocks.
And look at, look at the, look at how big the, I'll look up here, look at how big the
stair steps are in that center temple, that gateway, that top, that doorway.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look at the, look at the, the blocks that are on top.
Those are kind of reminiscent in my mind of, of the roof of the king's chamber, getting
something like that up there.
I mean, you're talking about like we would need a crane to do that today.
Are those, are those, so those walls and the ceiling around that doorway, are those separate
pieces or are those one solid piece?
No, no.
So you can be easier to see on my computer, but so the walls are, the walls are like multiple
columns and the ceiling is multiple columns.
So they're like rectangular columns that are all stacked together.
Okay, got it.
And then also here at Tiwanaku, you have some of these H blocks.
So this is some of the really bizarrely intricate monuments that there's no explanation like
were these for walls, were they foundations?
Nobody knows.
They're, they're so scattered.
Look at that.
I mean, how, how as a stone mason, does somebody do that?
And I, I go on like a, I'll read in all kinds of forums where architects, oh, and do you
see on the top of that, do you see like the little groove that looks like it's kind of
like a notch that goes inside?
Yes.
So what they speculate was that they were melting, this civilization that did it was
so wealthy that it was melting gold and silver together to act as like, I'm trying to think
of the right word, but they, they were hinges, maybe it would be the right word to hold the
blocks together.
To hold stones together.
Yeah.
So they were melting silver and gold in those little grooves to keep the, to keep the blocks
together.
And then what are these, what are these geometric designs for?
Literally nobody knows.
And when you get down inside the stone, so like not on the outside, but when you get
down inside the stone, all of this, all of these things are perfectly symmetrical.
How do you, how does somebody do that?
These are eerily similar to a lot of the things that we see in Egypt.
As like the Serapium boxes, how well those are carved, this is eerily similar to that
and reminds me of it.
And you look at how, so here's another example, but look at how scattered this is.
What was all of this?
You know, are these parts of buildings, are these foundations, are they walls?
They certainly don't look like it.
What is the purpose of all this?
Oh, you see the, you see those two H blocks, you see the foundation that they're sitting
on?
Yes.
That entire foundation, I haven't been to this site to look at it, but and, and I hope
to go next year, but that entire foundation weighs about 165 tons and it doesn't come
from that area.
It's not like bedrock.
It was transported from somewhere else.
So this, so Tiwanaku is a truly bizarre site.
I got another example here somewhere.
Yeah.
Tiwanaku Puma Punku.
This is the, this is the gate of the sun, but look at somewhere on here.
I think I've got it.
Oh, here's the, this is the staff god, the giant.
So he's got, they're heavily eroded, but he's got fangs and he's holding stocks of corn,
but this is the staff god as well.
So this guy, this god likely goes back thousands and thousands of years, whoever this is.
I have a better photo of this somewhere.
What were you about to ask?
No, I was just going to say, like it's so frustrating that there's not more effort and
more money put into understanding this stuff.
Dude, it, yeah man, you're, you're a hundred percent right.
It's like, we, like you could, you could redefine everything.
Yeah.
You could, you know, it would question everything, you know, even down to like the existence
of mankind when you look at this stuff, but if the lens our society looks through stuff
is, is commercialism, consumerism, war, money.
And this is just, we're too far down the road already to like rewind and actually say like,
what could we actually discover if we put millions and billions of dollars into really
understanding what this is.
Okay.
Yeah.
So you want to get into talking about discovering something.
So dude, there is so much left to be discovered.
Now first off.
Like one, sorry to interrupt, but like one of the things that really, really blew my mind
about those Serapium boxes in those, in those pyramids is that this guy named Chris, you
know, Chris Dunn, he, he wrote about in his first book, he, he looked at those Serapium
boxes and how perfectly symmetrical they were cut out and polished.
And he asked like the biggest granite company, the biggest granite production company in
the United States, what it would take to recreate that.
And he, he said it would be over $250,000.
And he said after they even got the permits and paid like, he said it was going to be
like $50,000 just to haul that stuff out of wherever they quarried it from.
He said they would never in a million years cut it out of one piece.
They would cut all the walls out separately and bolt them together.
But those boxes are all carved out of one solid stone.
Yeah.
Just the amount of resources it would take for us to do today is unfathomable.
That, you saying that there's something exactly like that in the Maya world.
When you look up the sarcophagus of Pakal, Pakal is spelled P-A-K-L.
So the sarcophagus of Pakal, it was found in the Temple of Inscriptions in Palenque.
It's a Maya city.
I was just there in January.
And so, oh dude, I'm so glad you said that.
We have a whole rabbit hole to go down.
Okay.
So, Palenque.
You can pull up that first.
So this is a cast of it.
This isn't the actual thing because it's still inside the tomb today.
But I stood here.
This is like a life-size replica cast.
Dude, I'm telling you, this thing right here, it's seven feet tall, 10 feet wide, 15 feet
across, carved out of one solid piece of limestone.
And it has hieroglyphs all the way around the side of it that tell the story of the Maya
gods of Palenque.
So this exists in Palenque, which is Chiapas, Mexico.
Now the city itself existed from about 1,000 BC to 780, and there's like a mysterious collapse
of Maya civilization.
And that 1,000 BC estimate, it could go way further.
There's evidence off in the jungle that it goes back further.
So this is really interesting because on the inside of that, it's not a completely hollow
box where Pacal's body sits inside of that sarcophagus, was carved out perfectly to
be the size of his body.
That entire sarcophagus is solid.
So imagine they find one of those Serapium boxes.
That's an actual, I mean, what do they say, they're like cow sarcophagus or something
like that.
Something like that.
Yeah.
Well, I think they found cow remnants in there.
Yeah.
Something along those lines.
But so they're like carved out on the inside.
This thing is a solid block where like the lid is cut off.
How they cut the lid off of the top of that, and then they carve out a crevice on the inside
that's perfectly the size of Pacal's body.
And it's like outlined to be the size of his body.
And so they place it, it's so heavy that they place it on the foundation of the pyramid
and build the pyramid around it.
So this is one example.
But what's interesting is this moving these megaliths in the Maya world.
One of the reasons that the Maya world doesn't get as much love as places in South America
like ancient Peruvian sites like Machu Picchu, and then of course Egypt, you have all these
megaliths which are blocks that are the size of this table that we don't know how they
moved it.
What's really interesting is, I mean, dude, you're not going to find this published anywhere.
This is private conversations between archaeologists that work in Central America and only things
that they know about.
There's not like a popular mouthpiece that's voicing all this stuff for the world to know
about.
So this kind of, I would consider that a monument.
That giant of a monument was not common in the Maya world around the time that Pekal
was alive.
So that's about 600 AD.
It wasn't common.
They weren't doing that at all.
This is the one of a kind thing.
What's really interesting is deeper into the jungles in the most remote areas, places that
there's no photos taken of these sites.
These are things that I want to visit over the next coming years.
The further you go deeper into the jungle, the older the sites get.
They can date that by pottery.
They can see how Central American, Mesoamerican pottery evolves over time.
So when you find pottery in certain places, you can go, oh, it's this type of pottery
comes from this area.
They know that because they found that kind of pottery in graves, right?
The deeper you go into the jungle, the older the sites get and the bigger the blocks get.
Just like ancient Egypt, the older it gets, the bigger the blocks get.
Just like in, seems to be just like in South America, the older the sites, the bigger the
blocks get.
Deep into the jungle, there are places that there aren't photos taken of these sites.
I just did an interview for my YouTube channel.
This hasn't come out yet.
Maybe it'll be out by the time this episode comes out where I asked Dr. Barnhart.
I kind of knew this a little bit, but I asked him, one reason my architecture doesn't get
the love that it deserves is because there's no megaliths.
Do you know of any examples of it?
He goes, the short answer is yes.
The long answer is they're at the oldest sites that are in the most remote places deeper
into the jungle.
If you're out in the jungle and you discover a Maya, that's the inside of his tomb.
That entire tomb would have been covered in beautiful red cinnabar, blue Maya paint,
which they don't know how they created the paint yet.
That whole thing is like one complete solid monument, but that wasn't normal.
That was a replication of older Maya architecture, largely that isn't photographed.
At some places in Palenque, when they dig down underneath the city, they do see...
I haven't seen this place on any official studies, but I've seen people just go in with
their cameras and underneath the structures, there are giant stones.
These Maya cities, much like Cholula, have you heard of the pyramids of Cholula?
Cholula we know was populated.
I think Cholula is the most consistently populated city on the entire planet.
From the time that it was built, it's just been populated the whole time.
No matter how far back they dig, people have always been living there.
A lot of Maya cities are the same way.
There's a pyramid, the next emperor or king builds on top of that, builds on top of that,
builds on top of that.
More you go to the center, what's weird is that those blocks are bigger and bigger and
bigger that you get to the center, but they're older as well because it's not like one king
built the foundation and then built everything out and the blocks got smaller.
It's the first king used the most massive blocks, and everything else that came after
it was much more inferior.
Way out in the middle of the jungle, just to show you an example, I'll show you guys
a photo.
This is how little that we know about some people called the jungle of stone.
That's what the Maya jungles are called.
About 25 years ago, the city of Palenque, which is what we're seeing in aerial view
right now, this is the most grand city of the Maya world.
About 350 structures were actually mapped and identified and put on display.
All of those that you're seeing are in this photo right now.
Some of them are kind of covered up by treetops, and the way that they break down the structures
may not be super conventional.
Now, Dr. Ed Barnhart was hired to go through this area and map the entire area, I think
from 99 to 2002.
What he found was that what was on display was like less than 10% of the entire city.
The actual entire city is this entire square of jungle that most people had never seen
before when he walked out there.
What's on display when you go there today is this.
The entire city is all of this right here.
Those 300 structures that were on display, to give you an idea of how packed Maya civilization
is, those 300 some odd structures that are on display, that's what they'd known about.
Three years later, by the time he was done mapping it, it had gone from 350 to 1150 structures
that are in that tiny little area.
There were structures, so this main palace right here, this is the royal palace.
This right here is the temple of inscriptions where that megalithic tomb sarcophagus was
found.
There is another structure out there that I'm going to go to probably next year when
I do my expedition to Yashilan, which hopefully we touch on.
I'm going to go back out there because there's another structure out there that's bigger
than the palace that's sitting in the jungle.
And he saw this?
He mapped all of it.
He mapped it all.
He mapped the entire thing.
And when I say mapped, I don't just mean like, oh, this is here, this is here.
He mapped every angle, every staircase, the height of every pyramid sitting on top of a
staircase.
He mapped the foundations.
He mapped how far, like, I'm talking, I have a picture of it right here.
This is the map that he made.
So where's the temple that's out of the woods?
So do you see the yellow ones?
That's what was on display.
Okay.
The rest of it is everything that he discovered.
How long?
This took him three years?
It took him three years.
Yeah.
It took him three years and he did it twice.
He mapped the whole thing twice.
No fucking way.
Yeah.
And what's crazy is, so you see the blue streaks?
Those are artificial aqueducts.
Those are canals that they dug into the ground to be able to funnel the water, to channel
the water through the city.
So they had their own plumbing.
They had fresh water that could flow next to their homes.
They had pools.
Like, I mean, I'm walking in the middle of the jungle, dude.
There is a house, like your regular residential swimming pool is sitting there in the middle
of the jungle, still being funneled full of clean spring water.
So that's me inside of an aqueduct.
So they lined, they would dig these, you know, so I'm 5'10".
That's probably 10 feet tall or so.
So they built a foundation, walls, and a roof for their underground water systems, like
these underground caves.
So you can be walking through the jungle and they go on for miles.
Like, see all of these blue, all of these blue streaks?
These are all artificial aqueducts.
And so the one that I'm standing in is probably somewhere out here off to the, no, no, no.
It's somewhere out here, actually.
And so I could walk through that for miles.
It's a tunnel full of clean water that's flowing, that's flowing under the ground that they
artificially created that because they were like, no, I want to build my temple over here.
So we're going to take this stream and we're going to build an artificial river all the
way over here.
And then we'll build it all the way down here because, you know, it has to go to another
stream at some point.
So it goes back into circulation.
So they build it where it connects to their home and then the water would flow through
their home down to some other river.
And it would connect back to the main source of water.
So you're walking through the jungle and you start hearing rushing water and you look around
and you're like, what the heck?
And you look down and there will be like these limestone blocks.
And look at these blocks too.
There's no mortar in between them.
Of course, these things are heavily eroded.
I mean, heavily eroded.
You can see what water and rain has done to them, how much it's, how much is softened
down the sides of this limestone.
But you're walking through the jungle and you hear rushing water.
You look down, you see a block, you scoop out like some of the dirt and moss, shine your
flashlight down and there's a river under an artificial river that's encased in limestone
blocks rushing underneath you.
These are found like, dude, I could be walking through the middle of the jungle and a perfect
way to, like a way that I could find a city theoretically, which is something I want to
do someday, is I could be walking through the jungle and one big sign is you got to
keep looking at the ground.
And when you see blocks that are placed artificially, you may not be actually at a city.
You may be standing above an artificial aqueduct that will lead you straight to that city.
So theoretically, instead of trying to follow the roof of the aqueduct back to the city,
you could pull off those casing stones that are on top, jump down on the aqueduct.
You know, look, which way is it flowing?
It's flowing this way.
Let's go this way.
And you could walk underground straight to a city in the middle of the jungle and come
out right where I'm at, boom, inside of a city that no one's ever seen in the middle
of the jungle.
And to give you an idea of how, oh, here's a pyramid that I jumped down inside or a temple
I jumped down inside of.
So these structures out here gets, gets sunken so easily due to soil deposition and how much
it rains.
So what I'm looking at right now, this, this right here is the roof of a temple.
But I thought it was an, I thought it was an underground chamber when I first saw it.
So I jumped down inside and you can see like, look at, look at how symmetrical the, the interior
of it is.
I mean, it's trapezoidal and everything.
And I had to put my, I had to put my hand up.
So this is a tall ceiling.
So I was thinking, oh, this is super cool.
This is a underground chamber I just jumped into.
Well, I get back home, I start studying, I start studying Maya architecture.
These, this was never built to be underground.
This was above ground and the ground has risen all around it.
So this, so this temple was completely underground and it's not like that happens to all structures.
It's just kind of depending on where, like, how is it sitting on the hillside?
It's a, it's a case by case basis.
So I thought that was pretty cool.
This is me standing in front of a temple in the middle of a jungle.
So this is the temple of Lady Sakkuk who was Pakal's mother.
This isn't on display for like regular tourists to go see.
You have to actually just walk straight into the jungle to go find it.
So Dr. Barnhart took me here.
This is in January.
What kind of animals are out there that you got to deal with?
Yeah.
So we're, I'm getting that too.
How, you got to come for like fully armed?
You can't be armed because they don't let you have guns or anything like that.
So I have a, I have a little folder here for a lock and don't.
Okay.
So the biggest thing is a fair delant snake.
Can you see a fair delant in here?
No.
I'll see.
Sure.
It just sticks and leaves.
So here's the next one.
Can you see the fair delants in there?
I see it there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then.
Wow.
And then so.
So that thing is super fucking camouflage.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is like, it's the most overpowered snake on the planet because it would be easier
to see if it was a solid black snake, like a black mamba.
But this guy is dark and light brown with very dark brown, with a very like some dark
brown patches that make it look like leaves.
So it looks like dirt with leaves on top of it.
And they're ambush predators.
So they, so they'll sit in one spot all day long and they don't, they're like, they're
fight or flight, they're going to fight, they're going to strike at you multiple times.
So they sit down, coiled in a spot underneath all the foliage and you're walking through,
boom, bite you on the ankle.
These guys are so venomous, so much more venomous than snakes in North America.
You have to get medical treatment.
There's, there's, there's just no way that a Westerner is going to go down there, get
bitten by a Fertilance.
And if you don't get medical treatment, you're not going to live.
However, there are people in Guyana in the Amazon, so that's the Northeast Amazon.
And there are, there are Peruvian indigenous people.
Again, this would be something interesting if Paul knows anything about this.
There are Peruvian people who have been bitten by Fertilance snakes and they don't go get
treatment because they just can't afford it.
Whatever reason, they go back, they go back to their village, wherever they live.
They do their herbal remedies or whatever kind of indigenous remedies that are, you know,
that they have, they live through it.
And same thing with rabies, they're ancient Peruvians who, who have been, I guess they've
been getting rabies for like thousands of years.
They've learned they're either their immune system has learned to defend them from rabies
or they've learned like these indigenous cures that modern day scientists just haven't gone
in to figure out like, what are you guys doing to cure rabies?
But yeah, I mean, like your, your average person getting bit by a Fertilance in the
middle of the jungle in Central America, I mean, yeah, you've got to get immediate medical
treatment within, you know, just a few hours.
If you want to save the limb that's bit, if it's your finger, forget about it, you're
going to lose your finger.
No, probably no matter what toe, you're probably going to lose your, you're probably going
to lose your toe.
So, you know, when I like, when, when Paul says, maybe he was on this podcast, he says,
he was like, he's like, he's like, you take off your, you take off your heavy boots and
your weak little pathetic feet and you start walking through the jungle.
And I'm thinking like, man, that's brave, but I wonder if the people who have been living
out there.
So like when I'm in this area, it's the Maya people that I'm around, dude, they're walking
around in sandals barefoot through the jungle.
No big deal.
And so I wonder, you know, there's got to be some kind of, there's got to be something
that they're tapped into as to, as to how they walk around the jungle, how to be safe.
That a guy like me, some gringo romping through the jungle, I'm not going to think about that
or even be aware of it.
But this is one of the dangers.
Fertilance, I would say is like number one natural danger.
Your other danger is going to be a jaguar.
But if you're going in with a group of people, a jaguar is not going to do anything to you.
Like in Belize, near this site of La Milpa, this is in Northern Belize, the program for
Belize.
It's like a really uncharted area of the jungle that's being studied.
When Dr. Barnhart was out there, there was this young girl who was like a runner.
And so people were like, don't go running down the roads by yourself.
And she didn't listen to them.
So she ran down the road and goes down this little path to go see this temple that they've
been excavating on their own.
And then she's going to run back in the morning for the breakfast.
Well, there's a jaguar inside the temple when they go there.
And so she sees the jaguar and she starts slowly walking back.
And the jaguar stalked her right behind her on the road all the way from the archaeological
site back to the camp.
And then when there were more people, it runs off in the jungle.
But a jaguar would maybe be a threat, but more realistically, definitely not just the
Fertilance snake.
I mean, there's like rattle snakes and stuff that are out there that can get you.
And if you get bit, you should go get treatment.
You shouldn't stay in the jungle.
You know?
Tell me what you told me last night about rattle snakes.
Yeah.
So there's a big myth about, well, and I mean, I don't know that it's necessarily a myth,
but it's like, you know, if you get bitten by a rattle snake in like a meatier part of
your body, like a fleshy part of your body, like your calf or your thigh or something
like that, you don't necessarily need to go get medical treatment.
You can survive that.
You can take like multiple benadryl a day and sleep it off for a week.
I mean, cowboys were doing this back in the, you know, back in the, in the wild west.
They were getting bit by rattle snakes and they would have to sleep it off.
And a rattle snake wasn't a death sentence.
If you got bit on your finger, you're probably going to lose your finger.
You know, you get bit on your toe, probably going to lose your toe.
There are certainly people who died from rattle snake bites.
A lot of people are allergic to their venom, but if you're not allergic to it, you're a
healthy, fully grown male or female, you're going to live.
You're not going to die.
A feral answer coral snake bite is going to kill you.
They're like three times as venomous at least.
So in North America, we're pretty safe from snakes other than a coral snake.
You don't want to get bit by a coral snake, but they have little tiny mouths and it's
unlikely that they're going to bite you.
How venomous are coral snakes compared to feral ant snakes?
I believe basically exactly the same.
I think a coral snake is, is like, I think a coral snake is just slightly more like
maybe a couple percentages more venomous, but not nearly as dangerous.
Like if you look up most dangerous snakes in the world, the coral snake isn't going
to be on there.
If you look up most venomous snakes in the world, the coral snake will be on there.
But a coral snake, you could pick one up in the wild and hold it.
You basically have to like press it against you to get it to bite you.
You know, you really have to do something, you have to either be really unlucky or very
negligent.
Like I've seen videos of people playing with coral snakes and then they get bit.
But it's not as, it's not nearly as dangerous as this guy.
Really a rattlesnake is more dangerous because a rattlesnake is more likely to bite you than
a coral snake.
So, but yeah, I learned this when I went through EMT school two years ago or three years ago
when I was still in college.
And that was like one of the, that was like one of the big myths that our instructors
taught us about.
Really?
Yeah.
And then my, my, my, one of my best friends, he actually pursued EMT more so like I never
officially worked.
I went on some, like you have to go through your rotations where you're actually working
on the ambulance.
But he went through, he actually worked for, I don't know, I think it's like six months
as an EMT, saw all kinds of stuff, saw all kinds of snake bites.
And yeah, every single person at the hospital, every person working there, all attested to
the fact that a rattlesnake bite won't kill the average person.
It'll just, it's like a, it's like a, it's like a black widow bite.
You're going to have a fever of like 106 degrees for three days and you'll get over it.
Even if you don't get the antivenom, it won't kill you.
Nope.
It's just Benadryl and it's a good night's sleep.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can, you can survive.
In Central America, no, you're going to die, you know.
So that's, that's a real danger out there.
Now the other dangers.
Yeah.
You brought up that, you brought up the scene from that movie, The Law City of Z where the
guy gets bit, right?
Oh, Apocalypse.
Apocalypse.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's what it was.
So like, yeah, Apocalypse, the Aztecs are chasing the, that poor Maya guy through the jungle
and they go around this tree and there's a giant Fertilence there.
So Fertilence, they range in all different sizes.
So you can have little small ones or you can have some that are like eight feet long that
are super, that are super thick, but the attacks don't usually come from giant Fertilence snakes
because they know that just a strike will be enough, like a dry bite will be enough
to get you to run away.
Smaller Fertilence snakes are really scared.
They're not mature enough.
They haven't lived that long.
They're going to give you all of their venom.
And so there are rangers in Costa Rica.
Costa Rica is where by far where the most snakes get, by far where the most people
get bitten by Fertilence snakes and yeah, I mean, there was a ranger out there who died
in 10 minutes after getting bit by one, but I would fair to guess that he was allergic
to the venom.
I mean, that would make the most sense to me.
Then there are people who, they don't get their bites ever treating, but their leg dies
and it like the necrosis sets in and it becomes like this black piece of charcoal bone that's
attached to their body.
The rest of their body will get over it and will survive, but that leg is gone.
So there's a wide range of what could happen.
Some of the other dangers going through the jungle are wild boar.
You don't want to get gored by pigs that are out there, although I don't think that that's
that common.
Of course, Jaguar, Puma are out there as well.
They're more aggressive than a Jaguar.
Like a Jaguar is going to usually leave if somebody is out there.
They're very elusive.
A Puma is more likely to stay and be around human beings and defend its home.
Oh, I've never seen one.
I've never seen a Jaguar either.
Another danger would be killer bees that are in the jungle.
Oh, you talked about this last night.
Yeah.
And so, I think the way the story goes is they're trying to make very docile bees so they take
your average honeybee, they take your African bee, both of them are very docile species.
They try to breed them together.
Who tried to do this?
I don't know.
Some lab in Central America or South America, probably Central America, I think, and it
may have been multiple.
I think it was people maybe all across the world that were doing this, but I think that
somewhere it didn't work.
And this is either in Central or South America and these Africanized honeybees, which is
what they're called, escaped this laboratory and now they're roaming through the jungles.
Like many different brigades of these Africanized honeybees roam through the jungles in packs
of millions.
And you...
For some reason, they're not as docile as the honeybees or the African bees.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, they're like bees from hell.
Yeah, they sting and attack you and will relentlessly attack you.
And they'll chase people for half a mile.
If you can sprint as fast as you want and for half a mile, they're going to be right
there behind you chasing you.
They'll get up under your clothes, crawl in your skin, sting you however they can.
This is a problem that could arise.
So say I'm taking a team into the middle of the jungle outside of Yashilan, which is
what I intend to do.
I've got some photos of it.
And so say I'm taking people out in the middle of the jungle at Yashilan and you hear this...
You hear this millions of Africanized bees.
Is that thunder?
What you're suggesting to do is to run and dive underneath the bush, because I guess
for some reason these bees don't want to get inside.
They're not going to swim around in the thick bush to sting something that's underneath
it.
They're not going to come that close to the forest floor.
Well, the problem with that is if you run and dive underneath the bush, that's where
a Fertilent snake likes to sit.
Or that's where any other type of snake likes to sit, or spiders or whatever.
Something bad could happen to you diving underneath that.
If I were to run, if I were near a river...
That's what I would think of doing.
I would think of taking it in the water.
So there's the Osama Center River that's right next to it.
It's a big river that is the border between Mexico and Guatemala.
If I were to just say this happened right as soon as I walked into the jungle and we
get attacked by Africanized honeybees, you could run, dive into the water, and you hope
to stay underneath the water, and swim away, and you come up at a place where the bees
aren't there.
Well, the bees are going to hover above the water and watch you.
They can smell your pheromones or whatever coming off of your body, your hormones.
They follow that, and they will watch you underneath the water, and where you pop up
again, they'll attack you again.
The other problem is the Osama Center River is infested with crocodiles, and crocodiles
are not alligators.
So crocodiles will intentionally hunt people.
They stalk people.
They hide next to local villages, and they will stalk one person for weeks at a time,
and they'll see their routines and everything, and they'll see, okay, this person's going
to come.
I mean, they don't know what they're doing, but this person's going to come up to the
river at this day and time, and that person's probably washing their clothes or getting
water that they can boil for fresh water, whatever they need to do.
And so they will watch that person, and they will basically plan or premeditate their kill,
and then they go up close to the shore.
They sink down to the bottom, just underneath where they think that they can't be seen,
and somebody comes out there, they come out, grab the person, pull them into the water.
And usually it's like young kids, like I think these are more leddy crocodiles, so you're
looking at like 10 to 12 feet long.
So not the biggest crocodiles, but it's a crocodile.
It's not an alligator.
You know, the alligators that are out here in the Everglades, you can go slap an alligator
on the tail, and it's going to run off, but crocodiles are not that way.
So you go run into any swamp, like you could think like, oh, well, that's just a river.
What if there's a swamp or something nearby?
No, they're there.
They've been there for the last 80 million years.
It's just death everywhere you go.
Yeah, in the Amazon and in the jungles of Central America, it's amazing that a civilization
actually arose there that was as widespread as the Maya were.
I mean, these are people who they had a perfect understanding, more so than the Greeks and
the Romans of our, not our place in the cosmos, but the cyclical nature of the cosmos.
And of the way that stars move, the way, you know, where the moon is going to be in
the sky.
I mean, they worship Venus.
And to be able to worship Venus requires a significant like understanding of astronomy.
They would build their buildings.
So this is something I've never seen anybody talk about.
The temple of the sun in Palenque was built by Bacall's son.
It's right behind the temple of inscriptions.
Every single, so there's an opening, there's a single door that opens up.
And the temple itself is built according to the, it's built according to like the sacred
geometric number of, what is it, 1.6.8, I'm sure Randall mentioned that.
It's built perfectly according to that.
And so the way the Maya did that was they would, they would have ropes that were like
like cords that were a certain length and they would stretch it up half it.
And then they would build their, they would build their structures according to that.
They got that from these local flowers that are in the area.
And you see these flowers all over Maya temples, they realized that the flower was like a perfect
geometrical shape and they built their buildings along to the geometry of flowers.
And so like it's common for Maya people to say the flowers are in our houses, the flowers
are in our buildings, but they don't realize some people today don't realize they're referring
to sacred geometry.
That goes really in depth, but the temple of the sun is every single aspect of it is
built perfectly.
And as the sun moves over the temple all throughout the year, where the shadows align inside of
the temple along every single column, every, like even the backside corner of the temple
as the sun aligns, that the priest that goes to in that temple can figure out exactly what
day of the year it is.
So the temple itself is like a calendar or a clock for our solar system.
And it's amazing the things that they were able to accomplish.
In the middle of a jungle where the environment was so harsh, but yet they had all the resources
that they need.
It's totally counterintuitive to what old world archaeology says about why civilizations
are born, like along the Nile, along the Tigris and Euphrates River in the Middle East and
then the Indus Valley where you have the river that borders India and Pakistan.
So those are your three great fertile crescents of the old world, which all happen after the
time of the younger dryists, the Northern Africa, the Middle East and the Indus Valley,
they all dry up over the course of like four or 5,000 years.
Civilization starts again.
But it starts along these river valleys, Nile valleys, and people have to come close
together so they build up, right?
Well, in the Maya world, I mean, they didn't have to do anything at all.
They did not need to build, there was no actual reason to build the city of Palenque that
I showed you.
It's just pure ingenuity, pure creativity.
However, maybe there's some kind of psychedelic aspect to this.
They're taking a lot of the same substances that we know that the ancient Greeks, ancient
Egyptians, all these other cultures in the old world were experimenting with and then
they meet gods like, you know, Emotep likely took a hallucinogen of some kind and I think
he met the god Horus and the god Horus was telling him that Jozier wasn't doing a good
job creating Egypt and so he goes to Jozier in ruling Egypt.
So he tells him, you know, you need to build something to honor Horus, blah, blah, blah.
They do all these things in the name of their gods.
Well, I mean, yeah, in Central America and in South America, it's the same thing.
So it's a whole big puzzle, you know.
Is there any connection between the people in South and Central America and the people
over there in Egypt?
Is there any evidence that they could have known anything about each other?
No.
So there's two things.
If there is, it would be the architects that constructed, you know, some of these very
strange monuments that are in Egypt that use these massive monolithic, megalithic boulders
that have, it's like they're completely devoid of any kind of art, right?
It's just these simplistic yet massive and deceivingly complex structures that they've
created.
And the things that are in, there's one site that's in Mitla, Mexico, that's a very well
known megalithic site, but then you have your others that are in, I could pull another
thing up, but then you have your other sites that are like Machu Picchu.
There are similarities there in architecture.
And if there was one overarching, so I'll just pull, let's pull up this, like, you know,
even in Egypt, they weren't necessarily creating walls that looked this perfect out of solid
granite.
And this wall, I mean, this is one of thousands of walls that are like this.
But if this was created by a civilization like a pre-Diluvian, you know, Atlantean civilization,
then sure, I mean, you could infer that there's potentially some kind of connection that spans
all over the world.
There are really weird sites that are full of these like knobs or nubs that are on these
blocks that you see all over the world and people piece these little things together
and notice similarities.
And there are some striking similarities all over the planet.
So if there were civilizations in ancient Peru and ancient Egypt 12,000 years ago, maybe
they did know about each other, but your classic Maya and your dynastic Egypt, I wouldn't assume
a connection.
However, there's a really weird thing that goes on in the, that's in the Olmec world.
And I'm going back in February to study this a bit more.
If you would pull up Monument 13, La Venta Olmec, there's...
Sorry, go ahead.
Oh, keep, what were you gonna say?
No, I was gonna ask, like, the Olmecs, they have a striking resemblance, they look like
they're African, right?
Yeah, that kind of isn't, so that column tomb that I showed you earlier, they're like the
king wasn't there, but they're able to, they're still able to find biological material from
the Olmecs, and they're able to try to, I mean, they can still test the DNA of the indigenous
people that live there.
Like all the Maya people still live there today, you know, their descendants are still
there, Tiwanaku's descendants are still there, Peruvian descendants are still there.
So they test their DNA whenever they find tombs that are intact where the soil hasn't
destroyed the grave or the biological material and they test it, they don't find anything
that results in being African.
Really?
But if you go meet the indigenous people that live there that have no Spanish DNA in them
at all, they do look like the Olmec heads.
They do have these...
Do they?
They do have these, like, very peculiar round faces, big lips, big, broad, like, kind of
flat noses that are similar to, you know, what we think Africans would look like.
So yeah, to monument 13, I think it's, yeah, click on that first one, you might want to
zoom in.
Some of these photos aren't the highest resolution.
So these are, this is an example of, like, proto early Mesoamerican hieroglyphs.
So it's tough to see from this angle, but around his waist just to the left, do you
see the foot that's there that's carved onto the, there's a foot that's pointing down,
like the heels at the top and the toes are at the bottom, toes are at the bottom right.
Hanging off of his waist?
No, no, no, it's like to the left of his waist.
It's a...
Yeah, okay.
But the foot's, like, pointing down.
Right.
And then over on the...
Footprint.
Yeah, it's a footprint.
Okay.
And so over on the right, you have some more glyphs there.
What's interesting about Olmec art is it's, so look at that, and I'm not implying a connection
here, but it is strange.
How similar is that to, if you guys went over this in the last couple of episodes, how similar
is that to Gobekli Tepe in its art?
Because what they did is they carved the face off of the monuments to reveal the hieroglyphs
and the glyphs from beneath.
So they carved the face off.
But what this means, this is a really, really interesting monument.
So what we infer that that foot means is it means he's a traveler, okay?
And then over on the right, the glyphs spell out that he is a traveler as well.
It's two different, it's two different, like, logographs or logograms that depict that
he's the traveler.
So on the top of his head, that little poofy thing and kind of like the tail coming down,
that is interpreted as being a turban.
That's not his hair, because all Olmecs depict themselves as being bald.
So it's very likely that they shave their own heads, and ancient Americans were notorious
for not being able to grow beards.
They didn't, like, growing facial hair is like a, is like an old world Middle Eastern
thing that, that, that I think that Europeans picked up through like, insemination, and
then it came over to this side of the world.
But a lot of Native Americans were not growing facial hair.
So he has a beard as well, he's wearing a turban, and he's got these little pointy
shoes on.
Well, beards, turbans and pointy shoes are not seen anywhere at all in the Olmec world.
Now this monument dates back to about 900 to 1000 BC.
So exactly at the same time of this, there's another thing that you could look up.
It's like a San Lorenzo clay head.
San Lorenzo is S-A-N-S-B-C-L-A-R-E-N-Z-O clay head, San Lorenzo clay head.
At monument 13 was found at LaVenta.
This right here that's up on the screen now, look how amazingly intricate that is.
This was found at San Lorenzo.
So LaVenta is like the western most edge of the state of Tabasco.
This is found in Veracruz at a site called San Lorenzo.
This is, he's wearing a turban, he has a little pointy beard.
This does not look like a Native American.
What this does look like is somebody who lived in the Middle East.
At exactly the same time around 1000 BC, the Phoenicians are launching expeditions out
of the Strait of Gibraltar from the Mediterranean Sea, and they are going to be the first civilization
of their time to travel all the way around the coast of Africa and back.
So the Phoenicians were excellent seafarers.
Well there's been studies that prove, and I think they've tested it with like mock ships
that they send out into the ocean, that if you go too far west out of the Strait of Gibraltar
into the Atlantic Ocean, you'll be carried by current out into the middle of the ocean
straight down through the Bahamas Caribbean, straight down into the Gulf Coast, right into
Old Mac Heartland.
So what's interesting is there's some evidence out there that there were Phoenicians who
got lost at sea and landed in Old Mac Heartland, and they're depicted on Old Mac monuments
around 1000 BC.
And this is something nobody's talking about.
But we don't see evidence of that.
We don't see evidence of them.
It's very likely like they stopped in the Caribbean and they met with the Carib people.
It's probably likely that they stopped in the Yucatan before they ended up on the Gulf
of Mexico.
At this point in time, the Caribs that are in the Caribbean and the proto early Maya people
living in the Yucatan, one, we just don't have the evidence that they met up with these
people and they maybe never wrote it down, or maybe the Phoenicians stopped in the Gulf
of Mexico and spent a lot of time around the Old Macs because the Old Macs are so much
more progressed and we're the only civilization they came across that were similar to themselves.
Now whether the Phoenicians sailed back, we don't know, we don't have any evidence of
because there's no, I don't think that there's any, well, you know, I'm just learning about
this recently, that there may be a place that the Phoenicians spoke about that was west
out of the gates of Hercules, which is like the Strait of Gibraltar.
There's a place they spoke about that was further out west, but there isn't like, there's
not any substantial, there's not anything written substantially about it to prove that
these are the same Phoenicians that came back from the New World, from Mexico and sailed
back over.
So whether or not they ever went back, if there were just, you know, there may have
just been a group of 50 of these guys and they died in Mexico, you know, we don't know,
or their DNA is such a minimal amount that it can't be detected, you know, 3,000 years
later.
But yeah, this is like a really strong case for recent, old world contacting the New World
way before Columbus ever came.
Whoa.
Yeah.
Well, and actually I should clarify and say that there may be more information out there
that existed at one point in time, like, you know, when the Aztecs, we know that when they
were writing, when they were ordering and producing about 480,000 pieces of paper a day, these
guys were standing on the shoulders of giants from the Maya.
The Maya are the ones who really expanded Mesoamerican, like their calendar, their mathematics, sacred
geometry and their writing.
And we wear the Maya again.
So the Maya are, they probably begin around 1000 BC.
That's like the very beginning.
And then they flourish at about 580, so like 1500 years later.
And they really bring everything, they really bring everything like to life.
And then they exist from their height at about 500, 600, 700 AD.
They start collapsing.
They start moving from the jungles of Guatemala, which are like where all of the older structures
are.
There's some kind of drought.
Maybe there was a volcano.
Something happened.
So people start moving north towards the, towards the top of the Yucatan.
And so the, so their architecture changes, they realize that worshiping men as gods doesn't
actually work.
So they start having like divine councils of rulers.
So they start moving northern, north into the Yucatan, where they, they stay there from
800 AD to 1400 AD.
And they're like fighting the Aztecs at the same time.
The Aztecs were about to launch an assault on the entire Maya world as soon as the Spaniards
show up.
Oh, shit.
For about 2000 years when the Spaniards show up, around 2000 years, the Maya had been writing.
So if the Aztecs were producing almost 500,000 copies of paper a year, think about how much
the Maya had written down for the last, you know, almost 2000 years and everything that
they knew.
So what's crazy is in the four codices that survive.
So when Diego De Landa, I think this is like the 1570s or 1540s, he's in Merida, Mexico.
What is today modern name Merida, Mexico?
I believe that's where he's at.
And he gets all of these local tribesmen, Maya people who still have their ancient codices.
So like what the Maya do is, have you ever seen the sticky notes, how they connect on
the, on like the top and the bottom and you can pull them apart?
Yeah.
That's a codex that comes from the Maya world.
That's where that design comes from.
So their books were, were folded like a zigzag.
And so you like unfolded the book and you can flip the book over and read it the opposite
way.
And so that's called a codex.
It's not necessarily a book.
So he burned, according to Spanish chroniclers, he burned pires of books.
So Florida ceiling, I mean, imagine all the books you have on your bookshelf.
How much knowledge in multiple pires, if you stack something from Florida ceiling, how
many books would that be?
And you do it multiple times.
You could destroy an entire civilization's knowledge just like that.
This is like the complete, this is like the burning of the library of Alexandria in the
new world.
The Maya knew very likely everything.
They knew their whole, they knew all of their origins.
I mean, what we have learned from the Dresden codex, which is just one of the four codices
that has survived has completely changed everything that we know about the Maya.
I mean, it's, it taught us almost everything about their astronomy.
I mean, there are books that are this thick over, that are written this thick in small
fine print about everything that we've learned to do with Maya astronomy.
I mean, they, they, it's like a, it's like a book that unlocked, like explorers had,
explorers and archeologists had been looking at these temples and they can't figure out
like, okay, well, why, why are these columns put here?
Why are the, why are the cities built the way that they are?
You know, they're just looking at it and they don't, they just think that maybe it's all
obscure.
Okay.
One codex, the Dresden codex added context to every single Maya city that was ever created.
Like it gave context.
People go, oh, so this, this temple is aligning to the sun.
This temple is aligning to the moon.
This temple is aligning to Venus.
This is why all of these structures are tilted slightly to the northeast.
Oh, and like every single Maya city that you go to from one codex has added context to
everything.
And then when you have the context, you learn, you learn some newer things, like as you get
deeper and deeper into it, like there, there, you might have a, I can't think of an example,
but I've, I've been in that situation many times where this, if I didn't have this context
now I wouldn't be able to figure out one more step.
So I mean, dude, you're talking about, you're talking about tens of thousands of codices
that were burned.
That's everything that they knew, everything.
I feel like no matter what I say, it would be an understatement as to, I mean, yeah,
this is on scale with the burning of the library of Alexandria.
They Egypt, when people were coming into their areas, if you had books and scrolls, they
would take them, they would copy them down in the library and then they'd give it back
to you when you, when you left Alexandria.
Well, I mean, yeah, the Maya are doing the same.
They're doing exactly the same thing.
And their form of hieroglyphs, if you could, when you look up, when you will look up like
Maya hieroglyphs, you can just look up anything.
This is so much more complicated than Egyptian hieroglyphs.
The, when you look at it, it's like, it's like psychedelic almost looking at it.
It is very difficult to wrap your mind around what you're looking at.
And their civilization is so complex, their language is so complex, their hieroglyphs
are so complex.
And a lot of times they're, they're carving the face off of the rock to allow the hieroglyphs
to pop off the stone.
And you'll see-
Like negative relief.
Yeah.
Like hieroglyph.
So this is, this is just like a-
Oh my God.
Yeah.
This is, but this is nothing like, if you look up like Maya Stila, but if you zoom into
one of those glyphs, yeah, click on that first one right there, zoom into one of those.
So each of those little glyphs is several words.
So you see how, can you see how the glyphs are broken up into like four quarters sometimes?
So each of those are four-
Oh, they're faces in there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There are faces in there.
There are temples in there.
There are animals that are in there.
It's, it's like the most complex ancient language ever.
Like most ancient languages are lines.
You know, they're, they're-
This is far more advanced than Egyptian hieroglyphs that you see.
Far, far.
And this is a, this is a simple example of this.
I mean, if you look up like a Maya hieroglyphic stila, if you spell stila, S-T-E-L-A, or yeah,
L-A, you're going to see some stuff that's just mind blowing.
I mean, it's hard to even understand what you're looking at.
Yeah.
Maybe click on the third one.
That's probably Copan.
Stila?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So any of those, if you, if you click on them, I mean, look, look at that.
Those are, those are glyphs that are carved into the side of a monument.
So it's like that, that, so this is at Copan and Honduras, I'm pretty sure.
So that's like out of it.
These aren't just, these aren't just like someone took a chisel and started making lines
on a rock.
Yeah.
This is like amazing three-dimensional.
Yeah.
It's, it's three-dimensional carving.
It's the, it's very likely the king or ruler's face.
And that's probably a, that's probably a depiction of the, so some of these are, are
depictions of, of trees, animals, and jungle foliage that's around him.
Yeah.
And those, so you have his face that's in the middle surrounded by the world that was
around him.
And it like fades into the hieroglyphs that are on the side of the Stila as well that
tells the story of his life, his rule, and the city around him.
And so you look at these things and they're otherworldly, dude.
And all the books that, that were produced in this city were either burned to ash, just
smoke, or sometimes they're not preserved very well because their tombs were prematurely
opened up.
Oh wow.
Go to that one up there.
Not that, yeah, that one.
That one, yeah.
Yeah.
So I think that's Copan as well.
So it's, it's, it's amazing, man.
I mean, oh, if you look and see it, if you look and see at the bottom left, you can see
a flower right there.
So a lot of this is, a lot of this is alluding to sacred geometry.
There's a flower on the right.
That's a five-starred flower.
That's alluding to the worship of Venus.
So as Venus makes loops in the sky, it creates the five-sided star.
So the five-sided star is not seen anywhere in the ancient world except for ancient civilizations
that were aware of Venus because where Venus appears in the night sky, it creates, it creates
like a five-sided star.
But you can't see it.
You can't see it, obviously.
You have to know where Venus is going to be and track it.
And so over the course of a year, maybe, maybe it's multiple times in a year, Venus creates
a five-sided star.
So any ancient civilization that knows about a five-sided geometric shape follows Venus,
which means that they were very advanced astronomers.
It's freaking crazy, bro.
So in the center of the jungle is where you're going to find, in the deepest parts of the
jungle is where you're going to find the most, you're going to find the oldest, you're going
to probably find in some ways the most advanced structures because as Maya civilization continues
after the, after like the fall, because they fall in about 750 AD, but they're not conquered
by Spain.
How did they fall?
Nobody knows.
Nobody knows what the collapse of Maya civil, what caused it.
Could have been drought because they live like in the highlands of Guatemala and Southern
Mexico and Honduras, like up in the mountains.
And then something happened to cause a mass migration north into the lowlands of the Yucatan.
And that's when they started conflicting with the Aztecs.
Yeah, about that time.
And then the Toltecs who live near the Aztecs come over into their land as well.
Like the Toltecs helped build Chichen Itza, if you've ever heard of that site.
So the Toltecs helped build Chichen Itza.
And then, you know, you have like these, you have these Maya astronomical observatories,
like there's one called El Caracol that's in the city of Chichen Itza.
This is an observatory that's aligned to all these different celestial bodies.
But then later on, I believe in the city of Mayapon, an older city, they build another
astronomical observatory, but it's not aligned to anything.
It's fake.
It's like, it's hollow on the inside.
They lost the knowledge as the time went on.
So how many civilizations do you see that in?
Where they start out using the biggest, most massive megalithic blocks that they can find.
Their knowledge of the world around them is at an all-time peak.
And then from the very beginning, it descends.
It doesn't get better over time.
And it's the same, it's that exact same in the Maya world as you see in Egypt.
It starts at like a, it rises to its peak really quick and then falls.
And then by the end of Egypt, they're not building as many structures that lasted or
stood through the test of time as the old kingdom or pre-dynastic or even the civilization
way before that did, you know?
Well, it's wild when you think about the fact that Cleopatra was closer to us than she was
to the building of the Great Pyramid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, like what I was saying at the beginning is that is remote antiquity that we just
don't know about.
And a good example, I'll give you for how little we know about the study of Mesoamerica
here.
I'm going to pull up my computer real quick.
So in the Lakhandon jungle, it's very likely that there is a lost city that is out there.
So there's a city that's never been found.
People have thought that they found it.
This is like an artist's rendition of it.
This is called Lakham Ha.
Maybe it existed around 600 BC.
Where's this today?
Well, nobody knows where Lakham Ha is.
But this map over here, this is the Lakhandon jungle.
This is south of Palenque in Chiapas, Mexico, just west of Guatemala, out in the jungle.
So this city of Bonampak that's over here that I have pinned, that's a very small necropolis
that probably about maybe 20% of it is excavated and on display.
And near Bonampak, they know that there was a city that was involved with them.
One city called White Dog that attacked Bonampak and ran through Bonampak, killed their leaders
and everything.
The city White Dog has never been found.
The city of Lakham Ha has never been found in the Maya world.
But there is a lagoon that's in the north center area of the Lakhandon jungle.
So like Lakhan Ha, Lakhandon, it's the same kind of Lakhandon Maya people.
So it's called the Lakhandon jungle.
So the local indigenous people, they call this giant lagoon right here.
They call it Lakhan Ha, which is very similar to Lakham Ha.
So the only difference is the N and an M.
But nobody has been out to this lagoon before.
And a body of water like this in the middle of the jungle, I mean, it's.
Nobody's been right there.
Except for local Maya people that live there.
There's no photo you can find of that lagoon lake.
It's like a giant lake.
There's no photo.
Nobody's ever walked out there.
We've got to pull this up on Google, on the Earth, Google Earth.
Yeah, I can do it right now.
You want me to do it?
Yeah.
Can you do that?
That's insane that nobody's ever gone out there or at least nobody's ever documented
going out there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, we're about to get.
Oh, here's a drug plain that I found out in the jungle.
This is the jungles west of.
So this right here is the uncharted jungles of Guatemala where they know more cities are.
Can you zoom out so I can get some better context of where we're at?
Oh, okay.
I see.
Okay.
So where we've been talking about Palenque, Palenque is right here.
How did you find that drug plain?
Just randomly?
Yeah.
I just like systematically like scour the area like through GPS coordinates.
Like I go in straight lines looking down to see like if I were to go out there, what
do I not want to come across?
So just as some reference, here is Palenque.
This is the jungle of Palenque, okay?
Here's where those 300 some odd structures are.
This is actually the full scale of the city that was unexcavated, all right?
That jungle is literally nothing when you look at the other Maya jungles.
So right here, the entire center part of the Yucatan is, I mean, look, there's no cities
that really like pop up as you go in.
There's these main little cities out here.
This is uncharted jungle, uncharted jungle, uncharted jungle.
Then you come down into Campeche.
This is uncharted jungle.
There was a city called Ocom Tune that was found right in maybe this area, about 37 miles
deep into the jungle.
I think it was Ivan Sprock that just found that city.
The lower part of Campeche is completely uncharted.
The northern Paten jungle in Guatemala, look, there's almost nothing that pops up.
It's dark green.
Oh, it's dark green.
This is where the earliest, some of the earliest sites in Maya history are going to be in this
deep jungle.
Even the things that pop up, like Dos Lagunas, if I were to zoom in here, there isn't actually
anything here.
There's an airport, and this could be like a wildlife research institute.
This is where some of your colony beekeepers, people who study bees, so if something gets
out, it doesn't immediately attack the local community.
There's all kinds of stuff like that out there.
The vast majority of this is completely uncharted.
Recently, there was a Lidar thing that made news that showed 60,000 structures that were
found in the jungle.
This is right where we were just looking?
Yeah, it's on the southwest side of where we were looking.
This is like an artist's rendition of the Lidar scan.
They beef it up and give you an idea of what it would really look like.
To give you an idea of how little we know, we did not know about those 60,000 structures
until within the last several years, they run Lidar scan over it, and then when they
do Lidar scan, they realize just how much is out there.
I'll show you because a guy that I know went out there and did a Google Street view of
the city.
He walked out there.
Here's the entire jungle.
This is where the city is.
Just right here.
Look at how far in that is.
I'll measure it real quick.
Some guy mapped all those roads with a Google camera?
Yep.
Well, yeah, by hand.
The cars typically have them mounted to the roof, but this guy was carrying one.
From right here to about right here, five miles into the jungle.
That's it.
We had no idea that 60,000 structures were there.
We click on, oh, I was actually a little bit further.
Maybe it's like four and a half miles.
When we come in, we click right here.
Stop it.
Now, look at that giant pyramid.
This is probably 60 feet tall, and there's a temple at the top of it.
You can see the stairways coming through.
Holy fuck, dude.
These are in the center of the jungle.
This was only five miles deep, bro.
Look at how much is uncharted.
All of that is uncharted.
All of that is uncharted.
Even the western side of Belize, it's all uncharted.
There's stuff like that everywhere, bro.
Everywhere.
Literally everywhere.
Okay, so down here, so let's go back to Bon O'Pock.
There's actually a street view here at Bon O'Pock, too, and you can get an idea of ...
Dude, how do these guys do this with these street view cameras?
I don't know.
You get like a 360 camera.
You just hit up Google and like, I'm going to walk out in the middle of nowhere.
Yeah.
Oh, so this is from inside one of the tombs.
These are the murals on the inside of Bon O'Pock.
Some of these depict ... This obviously depicts ... I stood here in January.
Some of these depict the ...
Wow.
Look how glossy that is.
Yeah.
It's amazing.
I'm trying to get one that's on the outside, out in the middle of the courtyard.
Just the courtyard has been excavated.
Look how giant this steel is compared to this, dude.
This dude's close to the camera.
When you're standing up next to this thing, you're like this tall.
This thing is massive.
This is like the big, wide-open plaza.
Look at how massive this pyramid is.
Those murals are in there.
Now, this is a somewhat less impressive city, but often the jungle ... You walk out to the
tree line and you peer off in the jungle, there's more pyramids out there.
Nothing has been ... Literally nothing has been excavated here.
In these murals, it depicts the city of White Dog attacking Bon O'Pock.
It also depicts the city of Lakum Ha.
You come and look down here at Laguna Lakum Ha.
You click on the photo.
There's no photos.
Okay.
I've tried to Google it.
The only photo I can find is somebody who flew over in a Cezna and took a really blurry
photo a long time ago.
There's nothing else out here.
I go on Street View.
Of course, there's nobody out here, but there are villages of people that live somehow somewhere
near here.
This is something I want to track down at some point, but they called this place Lakum Ha.
How far can you punch in on that?
Without losing resolution.
Yeah, I can go real close.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
If you look around like the edges, there's nothing you can find?
No.
I mean, okay, I'll show you here.
Okay.
I'm just going to go on a rabbit hole for like two seconds.
How wide also is that body of water?
It's big.
Here, let's look.
Let's do length.
It's a mile and a half.
Okay.
That's a mile and a half and then what?
Maybe a quarter or three quarters of a mile wide.
Yeah.
Exactly three quarters of a mile.
Basically.
So it's a huge body of water.
So this very likely, very likely fed a community nearby that is not Bonampak.
I'm guessing Bonampak probably got their water from this river right here and that there's
very likely some civilization, some city, maybe the lost city of Lakum Ha around here,
but that's as far as anybody knows.
So that's something I'm going to track down one day.
Now as far as-
How are you going to get there?
Walk.
Yeah, I'm just going to, I'm going to walk from Bonampak.
It's not that far.
Yeah.
It's probably like five miles.
Yeah.
Less than three miles.
Okay.
But you're talking about, you're talking about like basically impenetrable jungle going down.
Like when you go, when you leave Bonampak, it's like a very steep slope going down and
then you've got to hit the river and then you've got to, you know, go through, you have
to go through the swamps to actually get there and then we'll probably camp out on the banks
out here, up a little higher.
You know, I mean, this looks like a pretty good area to camp out and so anywhere around
here, bro, anywhere around here could be the remnants of a city.
I'm going to guess it's going to be a little bit higher up.
So like the elevation increases over here, I'm going to guess purely off of just looking
at a ton of cities, I'm going to guess it's going to be right up here on top of this ridge
line on any one of these sides, but it's anybody's best guess.
But maybe if there's local Maya villages out there, there may be people who already know
about it that know.
You're going to find a flank saucer.
Oh God.
Yeah.
Imagine.
Dude, I would love that.
And then they'd like lock me in a room forever and people would think I'm crazy.
Well, there's more siting, there's more like UFO sitings in this part of the world than
like anywhere.
Are there really?
South America and Mexico.
Yeah.
Really?
I didn't know that.
Yes.
It's really weird.
That is weird.
I'll have to ask people when I go next time.
I was just asking about when you're looking in uncharted areas for temples, I'm filming
a pilot to pitch to TV production studio companies in April on filming this pilot.
We're going to the city of Yashilan.
In the city of Yashilan, remember what I was saying a second ago about how a lot of Maya
cities are oriented to the northeast?
I just said a second ago, I was like, oh, this is, because of the Dresden Codex, we
know, oh, this is why the buildings are aligned to the northeast rather than true north.
It's because of the celestial bodies that they follow.
So you look at Yashilan, all these are northeast.
Some of them are a little bit more north because they're aligned to a different body.
But look, the vast majority of these are all facing northeast.
So what's interesting is, let's go to my photos.
Let's go to Yashilan expedition.
So here's Yashilan.
Here is a map that I was able to get out of a book that you can't, it's like a, it's
like an older field study book that you can't find on the internet anymore.
So this is a map of Yashilan and it's on the, so you can kind of see it right there.
It's on the tip of this boat island.
So it's like right up here.
But there are scientists who have studied howler monkeys because troops of howler monkeys
come through this little peninsula looking thing to escape predators like jaguars and
things like that.
So jaguars aren't going to, maybe not, they may not come through this because it's kind
of a tight area.
They want to be out here in the open and not feel.
They sort of like bottlenecked this little piece of land and surrounded it with a river
for people that aren't watching and just listening.
Oh yeah, sorry.
Yeah.
So it's like, it's basically like an island that's connected to the mainland by one sliver
of land.
And so it's unlikely that jaguars are going to come through here.
I don't know that jaguar sightings have been seen through here.
And there were a wildlife biologist that were studying howler monkeys because when you're
at Yashilan, I mean, you're hearing like the, and I mean, dude, I was thinking like the
first people tens of thousands of years ago who came through this area, when they hear
a howler monkey, if you ever hear in person, if you come down to Central America with me,
you'll hear one howler monkey in person who's this tall.
It sounds like an animal that is the size of a tree making that noise.
That's how loud it is.
I mean, it sounds like a monster.
Like a demon.
It sounds like an otherworldly monster.
It's amazing.
And when they all do it together, it's just, it's insanely loud.
No video could possibly give you an idea of how loud it is.
Yeah.
So there are these wildlife biologists going through the jungle here, studying these howler
monkeys.
And they're like, dude, there's pyramids out there.
There's temples out there.
They're all over the place.
They're everywhere.
We're walking over small little residential buildings.
There's giant pyramids out there.
There's temples that are out there.
Nobody's ever been out there to look at it because like nobody's sane enough to do it
for free other than me.
So here's the, here's a map of it.
Now there's in this entire, so I read the whole book and it's basically like a study
of the city itself.
There's one page.
So this is a photo that I took.
That's like what the city looks like when it's covered up.
So this little building is a building where there was a, oh my gosh.
So the very first suspension bridge in the entire world was built at this city.
They built a suspension bridge like, like, like think of like the Golden Gate Bridge,
the Brooklyn Bridge.
It's a suspension bridge that covers, that crosses the Usama center river.
So they know that when, when I believe the city of Calakmul, which is in like Southern
Yucatan or maybe I think it's Southern Yucatan, right above Guatemala, they marched all the
way down through Guatemala and they had to come through Yashilan because Calakmul sacked
Palenque.
So they came down, they crossed the bridge, they made allies with Yashilan and they sacked
Palenque.
So a thing about the Maya world is we call them the Maya.
It's not one civilization.
Each individual city is a city state and just like Greece, who is at war with Athens, which
Athens is also in Greece and Sparta, or I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Athens is at war with Sparta.
These city states warred amongst each other.
It's not just one civilization.
It's multiple civilizations and in this case, hundreds of civilizations that have their
own lineages of royal families and kingdoms at each individual city.
So it's not a straight line like Egypt is, like from Narmer and the Scorpion King, the
real life Scorpion King, 3200 BC, straight to Cleopatra.
It's one straight line.
This world is anything but a straight line.
So they built the first suspension bridge.
And so what's really interesting is somewhere in here, I'm not sure if I, ah, here we go.
In one page of this, of this book, it says, Structure 88, this is people who explored
the area.
Okay.
This is an old book.
In Structure 88 is a small pile of rocks, nearly one kilometer southeast of Structure
54.
Structure 54 is the most southeastern structure of the main site.
Bowles noted that the masonry terracing continued past Structure 53, but neither he nor Satterweight
continued along the trail to investigate the structure.
This is a lentil that was found.
So this is like a lentils.
When you walk through a doorway, they knew that their hieroglyphs would get like, will
become eroded because it rained so much.
So they started putting a lot of their hieroglyphs in the top, like a ceiling of the doorway.
So the doorway is like three feet long and you look up as you walk in and there's a lentil
right here.
So it's like a hieroglyphic piece of art at the top of the doorway.
So they found this in the middle of the jungle there and this is just like a artist's impression
of it.
It's still in that structure and nobody's seen it in, oh, I guess it was moved.
Okay, never mind.
I'm thinking of a different one, but so the lentil was moved and so this is like the 1960s.
So in 60 years, nobody's been out there.
So it has no dates or glyphs.
It probably dates to the reign of Machina, Skull, the third or later.
And so they knew that they're, as it says before, they knew that there were more structures
beyond the structure, but they couldn't continue because the jungle was just too dense and maybe
they didn't have the resources, weren't being paid enough, whatever.
The only other people that have been out there are wildlife biologists who say there's a
ton of stuff out there.
Now the reason I'm going to go out there and film it is one, I just want to see what
else is out there because I know something's out there.
I know that there's an expansion to this city that goes along the outer perimeter and I've
scanned every little nook and cranny, every hilltop and valley on this little island and
I found something exactly where Dr. Barnhart and I speculate.
So Dr. Barnhart and I look at Yashilan and we think that this is definitely a defensive,
this is a, it's a defensive geographical area.
I mean, it's the perfect place to defense.
You're surrounded by a moat, but what's your, what's the weakest part of this area?
It's definitely the part that connects to land.
So what we think is there's probably defensive structures or outlooks because back in this
world in North Central and South America, people had something called runners and it
was these trails they built through the jungle and you have a guy running barefoot sprinting
through the jungle to deliver a message and these runners could run hundreds of miles
in a short period of time or 10 dozens of miles in a short period of time.
So what we think is there were some defensive structures that were higher up watching as
potentially another civilization in their boats rounds these corners potentially to
visit or attack Yashilan.
And we think that up here on top, there were definitely defensive structures where, where
a clearing was made where you'd be able to see down into the river, very likely.
So I go on Google Earth and I start looking, you might barely be able to see it here for
everybody that's watching, I'm zooming in on something on Google Earth.
What do you see right here?
Rectangular structures that are oriented just barely to the Northeast.
It's really easy to see it on my computer.
Okay, yeah, I see it.
So these are rectangular structures that are terraced off.
So they have multiple different levels that are oriented to the Northeast.
Now this would be on a hilltop.
Is there anything else like this in Yashilan?
And I'll also look, it's a patch where the forest hasn't grown in completely around, but
you can tell it's green, it's growing in, but it's not completely grown in.
Is there anything else similar to that?
Yes, the three astronomical towers at the top of Yashilan.
It looks almost exactly the same if I put like a completely green filter over it and
all of these are oriented to the Northeast.
So it's the same alignments and it's in a similar geographical spot.
It's up high and very likely there may be other temples that are a bit higher up on
these areas.
So this is, you know, this is...
Oh wow, this is elevated so much.
Yeah, it's extremely steep.
I mean, this is a huge area.
And so these astronomical temples are way up here.
I walked to these earlier this year.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I walked up the...
So you come down here, you land here on a boat, you walk through the jungle.
This is like the research station out here, but these guys never walk out into the jungle.
They're only here, you know, they're only here among the main city.
Or maybe they do, but they don't say anything about it and they don't have like a public
mouthpiece to really get it out there.
So yeah, I walked from Jaguars Temple 33 here.
As I was walking over to the Acropolis over here, there's a path that shoots up and Dr.
Barnhart was like, if you want to walk up to the top temples, you can take that path.
So I walked up there by myself.
Really?
I walked up here by myself and so yeah, I walked up here by myself and walked all the
way through here.
There's monuments and stela that are laying on the ground.
It's very likely that these are constructed similar to the Temple of the Sun at Palenque,
that these temples are also calendars in themselves and they point towards different directions
in the sky to be able to tell the Maya people different things.
But dude, it could take somebody like living at Yashilan for multiple years straight, going
up there at every single major solar cycle to figure out, oh, look what just happened.
Okay, okay.
So now we see that this shadow aligns here in six more months.
Let's see if it does X thing.
Okay, if it doesn't do that, then it doesn't do this.
And then you test it enough times and you realize, oh, the Maya people were doing this.
Oh, it says that in the Dresden Codex, but we didn't realize that.
So all those books that were burned, think about how much is out there that is just lost
to us and we have to piece it all back together.
So the, but also the reason I want to explore Yashilan is at the top of the Usama center
river, I want to say right up here or maybe somewhere a little bit further south, you
know, the smaller villages that are in here are extremely impoverished and they don't
have, you know, electricity is very expensive in that area and a way to make it cheaper
would be to build a dam.
So you have like hydraulic energy.
And so the Mexican government wants to build a dam in that area, but the dam is going to
raise the water level and it's going to flood this entire, like the water is going to seep
over the entire Bode Island of Yashilan and turn it into like a lake of some kind.
So it's going to, it's going to flood all of the temples.
All of that, that big round will be underwater.
Yeah.
A lot of it will be.
And all of these, all of this area on the outside will be completely flooded.
So it's going to turn it into these giant lakes where they can dam it all up and like
have a lot of water power that's pushing through a dam.
So they'll have like dams on two ends.
And it's not just Yashilan that's there.
On the other side of the river, when you're going up the raft or when you're going up
the speedboat up to Yashilan, you look off to the right and there are pyramids out there
that are completely covered in foliage.
Like Nueva Palestina is a great example of how little has been discovered.
So I've got a photo of it here.
Yeah.
So this is a photo that I took.
This is from the city of Nueva Palestina.
These are called the Great Pyramids because they look like the Great Pyramids in Giza.
That is with an insanely extended lens.
This is ridiculously far away from where I was, from where I was standing.
Those are way off in the middle of the jungle and there's no scientific study of them.
Nobody's been there?
I'm sure people have walked out there, but there's no study.
There's no photos I can find.
There's not even a name of it.
There's no way to Google it.
So look at this.
There's a little diagram that I've got that I showed when I was at the Cosmic Summit.
Which by the way, we're having a Cosmic Summit again in 2024 that everybody should come to.
Hopefully you can come to it as well.
Hell yeah.
I'm trying to plan on it.
Let me see.
I've got a photo.
Gosh, what was that?
How crazy is it that this is the exact place where that enormous asteroid killed the dinosaurs
hit?
Oh, I know, right?
It's crazy.
So here is all the green dots on the right diagram are the documented locations of Maya
cities.
So look how densely packed they are.
Every single area where it's a bit more empty, it's just as packed.
That's how many cities are left out there.
That's how many pyramids are out there.
You're talking about easily over, I would estimate easily over 10,000 pyramids have not been
discovered in Central and South America.
And so then you're trying to look for, it's hard to find a lost city in Central America.
So here I'm going to get the map clean real quick.
You're really good.
Oh, thank you.
So okay, so here I'll show this real quick.
So here's the city of Bonapak, okay?
To go from here to over here to find the city of Lakum Ha or White Dog that might be over
there.
They think White Dog may have been found, but Lakum Ha may be in there.
That's going to be a really tough expedition.
It's very likely there's also cities in the Lakum Dome jungle that are south of Bonapak
and south of the lagoon.
So one thing, an example I give is like this road from the way of a Palestina down here
to Bonapak is maybe like 10 miles or so, okay?
And I would say that that road from the north side of the Lakum Dome jungle, it really starts
about right here because all of this is inhabited for the most part.
So this road that goes down through into Bonapak, I would say is metaphorical for how much
we know about the Maya world.
The rest of the Lakum Dome jungle is how much we don't know.
And all of that is completely uncharted land.
Completely uncharted jungle.
But that's also nothing compared to the Patan jungle that hasn't been discovered and the
Kempeche jungle and the Yucatan jungles.
All these little satellite things, all this is completely unexplored, not to mention the
Maya mountains and Belize.
This is all completely uncharted.
Now think about trying to find the origins of civilization in the jungles of the Amazon.
How big and massive that is compared to anything that's in the Maya world.
But think about all the stuff that's in the Maya world that's never been discovered.
So you're trying to find a lost city in the Amazon.
Look at that compared to this.
I mean, look at that massive jungle right there.
Look at that compared to the Amazon.
It's impossible to wrap your brain around.
It's impossible to wrap your brain around.
Yeah, man.
It's like exploring the Amazon is like exploring space.
It's just endless.
It's endless and it's dense and no matter how many trails you cut, the trail grows in
behind you.
You cut the trail down, you turn around and the trail is already growing in and covering
itself up.
You come back to the same trail, you chop down a season before and it's not there anymore.
How much when you're out there exploring by yourself?
How much do you have to worry about running into like loggers, like illegal loggers, or
like drug smugglers?
Because I remember Paul Rosely explaining the story where he was canoing down the Amazon
river and he ran into these dudes with a boatload of cocaine and they were like scoping them
out and following him for a while.
So there's a lot of, oh dude, yeah, this is a great topic.
There's a lot of that out there that I worry about.
I have not been exposed to it thus far, but as over the next couple of years, I imagine
I might or I might see the remnants of that being out there.
So illegal logging is huge in Guatemala.
It's huge in southern Mexico.
I think it's pretty big in the Yucatan.
So there are giant trees, there's like saba trees that are in Central America.
So saba tree is like the tree of life for the Maya people.
These are ancient, you know, thousand-year-old trees, but they're highly sought after and
not just that, just any kind of log is highly sought after.
But it's not only that, you're looking at how much cartel activity is down there.
There's a lot of cartel activity out there in the jungles.
They've got their own compounds.
So look, I found this in the lock-and-done jungle as well.
So this is an airstrip that I found.
That is not...
I love how you can just basically look at Mexico and zoom into exactly these little
obscure details in like the split second.
You have this whole country and you have all of South America perfectly mapped in your
brain.
It's really incredible.
Well, thank you.
I'm just...
I'm like absolutely obsessed with it.
You know, I like...
I can tell.
It's... in my videos, it's all...
I try to stay like...
I try to approach it with a lot of humility, like an educator and everything.
But this is a personal journey as well, you know, and I'm trying to like build a life
that's around the things that I love and do some things that are memorable and discover
things that will last way beyond my lifetime.
You know, so that takes a while.
You know, I want to build something that brings in some funds to be able to go on expeditions
and do things that are bigger than myself and not something just to like glorify myself,
but something to bring some kind of understanding to the world to other people.
And the jungles of Central and South America are frontier that's still accessible.
Like the age of exploration is not over.
I mean, I can prove it a dozen times over.
But this is one of the dangers that I could run into.
So these maps aren't really updated.
I've been looking at this for three or four years and I've never seen it change on Google
Earth.
When was this last image?
Can you see like what year this satellite image was taken?
No.
Okay.
Well, no, I can.
Is this 2020?
April 11th, 2020?
Yeah.
Okay.
So that's interesting.
They actually updated that.
So yeah.
So in the last three years, I was thinking I haven't seen this since 2019, but in 2019
this was still there, but I haven't really seen this change.
So this is an airstrip that's out there, but what's weird is there's no roads leading
to it.
So I was like, what do they do?
Do they go down the river?
So you start following the river, start following the river.
Oh, what do you come across?
Drug compounds.
Cocaine.
They're manufacturing cocaine, marijuana out here.
So there's all this kind of stuff that's going on.
Now what's interesting is this might be an older operation because drug runners in the
jungles now have created, they've created airstrips that have canopies.
So there's like one little opening where you fly in, but they like carve out a hollow
tunnel of trees.
So somebody flies in and they land underneath the tree tops.
So they fly out underneath the tree tops.
Yeah.
And so...
That's fucking nuts.
So we go to these photos.
I have some photos, let's see, Lock and Dome jungle.
Yeah.
So here are some, these are some drug planes that just get abandoned.
So if these places get busted, they just drive out or they walk out of the jungle and they
leave the planes behind.
So here's one that I guess crashed into the jungle because there's no airstrip around
it.
But if you look long enough, like I was just kind of going through Google Earth for a second
yesterday or Reddit for a second yesterday and there are other people who find planes
in the jungles on Google Earth of Central America in the Amazon.
Also refugees, like two other types of people that could be a danger.
So Guatemala has a lot of like political, civil unrest.
I think recently they had like a civil war, civil war or they had a, they had a falling
out of their government.
I'm not an update on my, on my Guatemala politics, but I know that there are refugees
that are living out in the jungles and they live underneath the tree tops so they can't
be seen.
They build little villages under the tree tops and some gringo guy goes out there and you
know, they don't want me to be there and they don't want any risk of me leaving and
telling people about it.
They kill me.
Or I go out to, this is, might be more common in Guatemala, which is why I'm not really
looking to explore Guatemala yet.
Maybe like 10 years from now when I'm more affiliated and I can take like a full on armed
expedition with me.
But in Guatemala, there are the drug runners and the like, yeah, I guess drug runners,
they excavate sites as well to sell artifacts on the black market.
So you go find a lost city.
This happens in Western Belize near Guatemala as well.
There are, there are like black market looters that will come over from Guatemala and they
will have machine guns and they will kill tourists and archeologists who go out to these
most remote sites in Belize.
They will kill them and loot everything.
So like at a temple in the middle of the jungle, for whatever reason, I don't know the geological
explanation behind it, but at the corners of buildings, the way that the soil deposition
or disposition works is that artifacts will drift to the corners of buildings and sink.
So you go to a corner of a building and you start digging down.
That's where you're going to hit artifacts.
That's how looters know where to look.
It's just, it's just like one of the tricks of the trade.
I remember studying it more at the beginning of my degree, but it's, it's a simple explanation,
but basically that's-
I imagine that's got to be a huge source of revenue for the cartels.
Man, it's got to be.
You know, the guys who-
You know what?
Now that you mentioned it, I remember Luis Shaparo telling me that, that that happens.
Oh, did he?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, and now, I can't get into it too much because I go down there, but now, yeah, the
cartels and the organizations that oversee Maya archaeology and projects, yeah, it's
the same people.
It's exactly the same people.
They used to be separated.
Now it's just the same.
And they, I shouldn't say where they live.
I know where they live.
Like, I know the city that it all comes out of.
And like everybody knows the city as well, so it's, but yeah, it's nuts, man.
So they're, they're basically lawless at this point.
So they, they're selling artifacts on the black market all across the planet.
I mean, dude, this happens in, this happens in Egypt.
Like, like Zaya Was, I'll talk about it about him.
I don't care.
He's a horrible person.
You know what I'm talking about?
Oh yeah.
He's a terrible person.
Dude, he, he, it's, it's extremely speculated that he would oversee archaeological projects
and he would have his own guys that would do it, that are all bought out and he would
take the finest relics and artifacts that would come out of these digs and sell them on the
black market.
And you know, that's largely why he lost his job as like the president of the ministry
of antiquities.
It was awesome.
No longer the president?
I don't think so.
I think he lost his job.
I think.
I'm not an expert on, on his life, but I, Ben was telling me that there was like some sort
of like secret expedition they were doing underneath, like in underneath the Sphinx.
Yeah.
And like a big temple that was under there that it was completely like black, like nobody
knew about it.
It was done in secret.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think I've made, that story kind of made waves in the news because he's, there's a
part where he's on like television and I don't know, for like a local news network or whatever.
And he's standing in front of a tunnel, which I believe is underneath the Sphinx and they're
like, what's down the tunnel?
And he goes down this tunnel.
Nobody knows.
We've never walked down there.
They're like, bullshit, come on, bro.
But yeah, man, there, there are, it's 100% confirmed that there are shafts that go deep
beneath the Giza Plateau and go hundreds of feet down, but I don't think there's photos
of it, but there are people who are certainly credible that have come out and spoken about
it.
And maybe there's some photos that's leaked, but that's not something I dive deep into.
But that kind of collusion and corruption does happen in Mexico as well.
But it happens, it happens at the top.
You know what I mean?
Like your average archeologist that discovered something amazing and revolutionary in the
new world isn't going to, they're not like some dogmatic person because they're, they're
in a frontier.
You know, in Egypt, it's not a frontier of exploration and discovery.
So people have had the time to sink their careers and their ego into this study.
So when somebody challenges it, like you saw, have you seen the debate between Graham Hancock
and Zaya Was?
I have not.
I've been meaning to watch that.
There's not anything to watch.
They don't debate because Zaya Was doesn't even entertain it at all.
He cannot sit there and debate Graham Hancock, who's challenging Zaya Was's ideas and what
his whole, what his whole paradigm is built on.
Isn't Graham banned from going inside of the Giza pyramids now, like he can't go in there?
Maybe he just can't spill it.
I think he's banned from Egypt.
Oh, really?
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
He might be banned from Egypt because in his new show, Ancient Apocalypse, he doesn't go
to Egypt, which you think he, you would think he would, but I think he's banned from
the country.
Interesting.
Because I only get that because I think he has said that on a couple occasions, but when
he says Egypt, maybe he is just talking about the archeological sites there, so there's
no reason for him to go.
I don't know the details behind it, but yeah, I mean, these guys, they can't all the time
stand up to the scrutiny because I think there's certainly guys that are in this alt-ancient
civilization community that aren't right about everything, which is okay, but there's certainly
people in the archeological orthodox community that aren't right about everything.
And to them, that can't be okay.
You know what I'm saying?
They're too prideful to admit it.
That's one thing I'd love about getting to know Dr. Barnhart.
He's like a rogue archeologist as well, and he's very aware that there's a lot of dogmatic
professors and people who have their egos tied up in this whole study, and it just doesn't
have any place here.
It's got to be one thing to see some of these megaliths in Egypt and other places that tourists
visit all the time.
But I can't fucking imagine what it must be like to walk miles through the jungle and
just be out there in this ancient city or site by yourself with nothing.
Yeah.
It's invigorating.
I haven't done it to that extent yet, but I have done it to a certain extent of walking.
You walk a mile straight out into the jungle by yourself or with a couple other guys, and
you feel like you're way out there.
You can't hear people anymore.
It's invigorating.
It's infatuating doing little excursions like that, where you're among a group of guys
that you're close to, you all depend on each other.
If something goes seriously wrong, you all have to depend on each other, and you're looking
for something that's much greater than yourself.
You're looking for something that is like a treasure of time, and it's been sitting there
amongst the birds and snakes and trees for a thousand years.
I've got something here in the pretend that I'll show you.
These little faces, so you're walking through the jungle.
These are little faces in the sides of temples that vegetation doesn't really grow on, and
you can be walking through the jungle and see these faces.
This is Piedrus nigerus in the middle of the jungle in Guatemala, and not in the middle
of Guatemala, on the west coast of Guatemala.
Is it rock around that?
Is it all rock?
Yeah, yeah.
It's carved out of a single piece of rock, but I don't think it's ever been excavated
to that much of an extent.
If you zoom in, you can see it has carved eyebrows.
It has detail into it.
It's not just a flat thing, and there's likely a giant temple that sits on top of this.
Look at how much foliage has grown around it, but you're going through the jungle, and all
of a sudden, you see one of those faces looking at you from the side of a temple.
It's invigorating being out there.
This has been something that's been true for the last 600 years that Westerners have been
exploring this area.
They've been exploring the Americas, like on the Lewis and Clark expedition.
There were several guys who committed suicide after the expedition because they were gone
for years, and it was the highlight of their life.
It was so dangerous, but so beautiful, and so invigorating that when they got home and
they knew that they would never do it again, they couldn't get over the fact that they
had already experienced the greatest part of their life, and they killed themselves.
Percy Fawcett was obsessed.
He went to the jungle like a dozen times, so he's a British explorer.
He went to the jungle a dozen times from England from 1906 to 1925 when he disappeared in the
Amazon, and he couldn't leave.
He just couldn't stop going back.
He was obsessed with Franz Blom.
He drank himself to death.
He's the most iconic Maya explorer ever.
He explored all the areas that we've talked about today in Chiapas, and there's a book
about him called Restless Blood, and he was just restless deep down.
He was restless because he was chasing something that kind of existed, but kind of didn't.
He was actually chasing the feeling of being in the jungle and discovering something.
When he wasn't there, he had a problem with alcohol, and there were things that would
happen that would prevent him from going back out in the fields, so he started drinking
and he gave himself liver cancer or something like that and died from that.
A lot of these explorers have crippling problems because of how infatuating being out there
is.
It's amazing.
It's something that's viscerally connected to the core of who we are.
You know what I mean?
I've grown to be obsessed with it over the last few years.
It started in Egypt, and then it came over to the Americas, and now I'm at a place where
yeah, my online channels have kind of turned into a page talking about the ancient Americas
and all the lost cities and everything, and I hope to dive into it way more as time goes
on and go on expeditions and discover things.
I'd love to do the Amazon, but it's just so ... Percy Fawcett spent 20 years there,
and he found some smaller towns, some pottery, some ancient relics, but he didn't find the
city he was looking for.
It took Lidar to find it, but in Central America, I'll find something.
I'll find probably more than one city if I really commit myself to it and publishing
it and talking about it.
Don't you have an expedition you want to talk about that you're going down to the
Americas?
Yes, I do.
I have an expedition that is March 17th through the 23rd, March 2024.
We're going to be going to Chichen Itza, Ushmal, Ekbalam, Labnash, Kishmuk, and a set of uncharted
ruins that are off in the middle of the jungle.
They don't even have a name, and there'll be a couple other surprises, sites that people
will go to with us.
The spots are filling up.
Bunch of people from the Cosmic Summit have signed up.
They were some of the first people that signed up, and then we've got Cosmic Summit coming
up next summer.
It's going to be, I believe, in Greensboro, North Carolina, and you guys can sign up for
that.
That was probably one of the coolest ancient civilization events I've ever been.
Really?
Yes.
I mean, Randall's going to be there.
Ben's going to be there.
Johanna and James, there's a bunch of other guys that are there.
It was probably, yeah, it was the coolest event with all of the people who all had the same
interest, all came together, and everybody from the Cosmic Summit still chats today.
There's a giant group chat, and there's a Discord now that people can check out.
Really?
And it's got all these little subcategories.
I got to get on that.
Yeah.
It's got all these little subcategories of different topics they have to do with ancient
civilizations.
You got to link me up to that Discord.
Yeah, I will.
I will.
Yeah, as far as our tour, I'm going with a guy named N-E-X-T, have you ever heard of
him?
N-E-X-T?
Yeah.
N-E-X-T, he's an American, but he lives in Cairo, Egypt.
So he's like an Egyptologist, like expert Egyptologist, and a dude who knows everything.
But he's in the United States for a little bit out of the year, and he and I have gotten
close.
We've gotten close over the past year because he also specializes in the study of the Maya.
So he has a company called Adept Expeditions, and I'll be co-hosting a tour through his
company, Adept Expeditions.
The host is called Lost Cities of the Maya.
So we're going to be visiting the height of the fall of the Maya.
So when they were building their last great cities, when they were at their technological,
scientific, astronomical prowess, these are the cities that they were building, and that's
what we're going to be visiting.
Wow.
Dude.
Yeah.
I've got to get down there.
We've got to do a group trip.
Definitely.
Yeah.
What about your YouTube channel?
You've got a YouTube channel?
Yeah.
You guys can find me on anything.
So it's Luke Caverns, L-U-K-E-C-A-V-E-R-N-S.
You can find me on anything.
My social medias are really what kind of have taken off, but I'm looking to really start
pushing my YouTube.
I think I figured that out, the format that I want to do it, because I do 60-second videos
on my social media, and I was thinking, maybe I shouldn't do super long videos on my YouTube,
but the super long videos are what people want.
So now I'm shooting for 20 to 30, 35-minute videos.
I just did one about the Olmecs, and then I'm going to touch on some of the topics we
talked about here today in the future.
Amazing, dude.
Well, I'll link everything below.
Oh, before we go, I have something for you.
Oh, ready?
Give me a second.
Gosh, I can't leave it on.
Oh, dear.
Okay.
So this is a...
Did you loot this from one of the ancient Olmec temples?
No, but this comes from Palenque.
For real?
Yeah.
So I bought it at Palenque.
It's handmade by people who are there.
Wow.
I'm honored.
I can't wait to see what this is.
Whoa, dude.
Yeah.
So that's the temple of inscriptions, and then that's the...
And man's reach should exceed his grasp.
That's the final thing that Percy Fawcett's wife said to him before he went missing.
So that's the temple of inscriptions at Palenque.
It's very similar to the temple of the sun that acts as like an astronomical calendar
for the Maya people, but that's where that megalithic sarcophagus that we talked about
earlier was found at the bottom of that pyramid.
Wow, dude.
This is...
Yeah.
So that's handmade by the local Maya people.
What is it made out of?
It's like clay, stucco, something like that.
Yeah.
Made by the people who were out there, and I bought that.
There's like a little market that's off to the side of the pyramid where local Maya
people make little arts and crafts by hand, and I bought that from one of them.
Dude, that thing is incredible.
That's so cool.
Yeah.
So I was thinking it might be cool to go in here.
That's amazing.
I wish I could keep it right here.
Cool.
That's the coolest thing anyone's ever gave me, dude.
Oh, really?
I really appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, it's...
I also brought this.
I got to keep this one.
This one's pretty cool.
So this is a Maya jaguar whistle.
So the...
Have you ever heard of Aztec death whistle before?
They showed on Joe Rogan's podcast before.
I had Calderon brought one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You try to blow into it and they can't do it very well.
So the Aztec whistles, you guys want to look at that, so the Aztec whistles, the Aztecs
would sit up in like the hilltops outside of like their enemy encampments and they would
blow the death whistle and it would sound like women screaming.
Or maybe it was Mountain Lion's Pumas.
You know how Pumas, when they scream, they sound like a woman screaming?
Well, this is not that.
This is a jaguar whistle meant to sound like the roar of a jaguar.
You won't...
Should I try to do it?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, okay.
They're like the Maya people can actually do it well.
So you don't just blow into it because if you blow into it, it sounds like...
Like that.
So you just have to cup it and release your hand and it sounds like a jaguar going like
wow, wow.
I'll do it.
This is going to be terrible.
Okay.
It sounds like...
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
You know, like so if a jaguar is like pawling at somebody.
Yeah, dude.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
So, yeah.
That's nuts.
Let me see it.
You can try it.
So when they're out in the jungle and I guess they wanted to scare people off, they make
the sound of a jaguar to I guess as a defense, you know, that's what they think that it was
for.
So...
That's incredible.
So this is...
How...
When do you think this was made?
God, dude, anywhere from the 1400s to, I don't know, 500 AD somewhere around there.
That is...
That's probably...
Man.
This one is probably not that old.
That is amazing.
Yeah.
So, yeah, these are pretty cool.
It's got like a...
Like the...
Yeah.
What is that thing on the side?
Dragon?
Yeah.
Like dragon, jaguar, you know.
That's incredible.
Yeah.
It's pretty freaking cool.
So they have a lot of little cool stuff, but I just wanted to bring that to do it on the
podcast.
I just thought that'd be a fun thing to bring up.
You bringing me on here, man.
That's the first time I've ever done anything like this, and I hope, you know, all went
well.
And, you know, thank you.
I really appreciate it.
It was amazing, man.
Thank you so much for coming down.
Big things are coming, man.
This is...
People are gonna...
Their minds are gonna be blown by this podcast.
I have no doubt.
Oh, thank you very much.
All right, man.
Let's get you on your flight.
Yes, sir.
All right.
Goodbye, everybody.
