What were you telling me about the White Claw just a second ago?
I loved the analogy.
The White Claw is a genius, first of all.
I love it.
Actually, I mean, not particularly, I don't really love the taste necessarily, but White
Claw in general is amazing because this is now, it's like what jewel is the cigarette's
White Claw is the beer, right?
Definitely.
Because, you know, I actually like beer, but objectively, the first time you ever tasted
a beer when you were really young, you took your drink, I mean, we like it now because
it has alcohol in it and you have a quiet taste and stuff, but like the first time you
have it, it tastes like fucking bar.
It's gross, right?
It's fucking gross.
Same thing with a cigarette, dude.
People like cigarettes.
You can, a cigarette can be very enjoyable after, you know, after you smoke it for a while.
All sorts of different times.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, but the first cigarette...
I mean, you shared a new part on the side of the road one, right?
Exactly, yeah.
The first cigarette you ever have.
It's terrible.
Probably not the best tasting thing you've ever had, so now that everyone's becoming
white conscious or becoming health conscious and stuff, the whole idea with a hundred calories,
dude, it's a vodka soda with some flavor in it.
Yeah.
Five percent.
It's fucking crazy how it's blowing up.
It's doing great.
Dude, it is crazy, man.
If I were as a beer company, I'd start producing this immediately.
Everybody has.
Natty Lighty, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
White Claw ASMR.
I'd pay for this.
It's just free.
I was saying, I was talking earlier, I was like, I was like, we need White Claw to advertise
on our show.
And we're like, White Claw is the last company that needs any advertising.
They would probably pay us not to promote them.
Dude, there's a bunch of companies jumping on it, like Trulie's in the game, but you
not even just like...
I heard that shit sucks though compared to White Claw.
I don't know, man.
You got to have like, if I was White Claw, I'd just start Trulie, so I'd have two brands
so that everybody can argue with it when I'm winning on the hood.
You're both sides.
Oh my God.
Is that what you'd really do?
Yeah, for sure.
That's genius.
Yeah.
You got to win both sides, but then you got to start little fights.
You got to start the beef.
You got to start the beef.
Yeah.
You got to start the beef.
And the beef, it just makes everything grow.
Dude, we suck those YouTube people, man.
If you start beef, it's not like you're going to destroy the other.
It just makes them both grow, dude.
Right.
Yeah.
Same in the music industry.
Like rap beef.
Yeah.
Rappers beefing.
Yeah, dude.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And maybe like promote one a little more hardcore on like the East Coast and one on the West
Coast or something.
Start like a little like state by state battle or something.
Oh my God.
That's next level.
That is next level.
If you need marketing help.
That's next level marketing.
That's the East Coast.
All right.
So we got to do like an intro for this for you, Clayton.
Clayton Johnson, ladies and gentlemen, is a digital marketing entrepreneur genius from
Medellin, Columbia.
I'm not from Medellin, if you can tell.
Why?
Give me the factual background of Clayton Johnson and who you are.
Okay.
For what's relevant, I'm Clayton Johnson.
I am the CMO of a company called The Hoth H-O-T-H.
And it's an SEO company based here in St. Pete, Florida.
It's been growing pretty quickly.
Last three years we got an INC 5000 list, three years in a row.
So it's pretty cool and that's pretty much what I do.
So I love marketing, all things marketing.
I've lived in Chicago for five years, moved to Medellin, Columbia for three years.
And then now in St. Pete, hanging out with you.
What is the INC 5000?
The INC 5000 is the top growing companies in the U.S., the fastest growing companies.
That's crazy.
So The Hoth, your marketing company is one of the fastest growing?
Yeah.
We hit it three times in a row.
Not just marketing companies, but just any company.
Any company in the U.S., or anybody that applied, so.
That's pretty badass, dude.
But yeah, that's what a marketing company should be, right?
They should be one of the fastest growing companies.
If you're good at marketing, marketing helps create sales and grow businesses.
So you better be on that list.
So we've been smashing.
And it's in downtown St. Pete?
Downtown St. Pete, yeah.
I'm very familiar with these guys.
Worldwide, baby, actually.
Worldwide, baby.
Well, the main office is in St. Pete.
It used to be a virtual company, so we used to not have an office.
And actually, to be honest, the vast majority of people that work at The Hoth are not in
the office.
We literally have hundreds or maybe even thousands of people that are working freelance
for us.
And they live all over the world.
So we have...
Yeah, it's crazy.
So it's kind of like the Uber for journalism, kind of, or Uber for search engine marketing.
How do you...
What do you call that when people are developing content that also helps boost your search
results?
Is that pretty much one of the main products that you guys have?
Yeah, well, I mean, if we're talking about the freelancers, we have 500 people on one
team and they're content creators.
So essentially, for SEO, in order to...
It's all about ranking on search engines.
If people are typing in questions about your products and services that you're selling every
day, right?
And so in order to show up there, you got to have some kind of content that actually ranks.
So we help people create that content.
And that could be in the form of blog posts, for instance, that if you have a question
like how much does it cost to remodel my home, right?
That would be like a piece of content you want on your website.
Somebody's got to write that.
And so we help a lot of businesses write that type of content.
And we have enough customers and orders and all that kind of stuff to provide 500 people
with work.
Damn.
So that's what the majority of those people are doing.
They are literally everywhere in the US or they can even be outside worldwide and literally
just working from their homes or whatever, but they're trained by us writing really good
content for our clients.
That's crazy.
And you're so young.
Your company is so massive to build something like that that's just digital and all on the
internet and all based on people all over the world, freelancers.
It's like a very modern type of business.
Yeah, man.
100%.
I mean, this is like a whole new economy that we're kind of like entering into with people
being able to work from wherever they want, whenever they want.
I mean, think about, yeah, like you said, like Uber, Uber like allows pretty much anybody
that has a car to have a job right now and you can turn it off, turn it on and off whenever
you want.
Is that why the company grows so fast?
Is that what's allowed you guys to hit that Inc. 5000 list every year because the model
is built like that so you can scale up super fast?
Kind of to some extent.
Yeah.
I mean, just because you hire freelancers doesn't mean your company is going to grow.
You have to sell the products first, right?
You have to sell the services.
So that is the big thing.
But there is a great thing about the freelance model in terms of keeping controlling costs,
right?
As you scale up controlling like human labor is like your number one cost in a business.
And in this case, if you were to hire people that work in the office, you have to have
enough work for one person to work 40 hours every single week all the time.
And then also on top of that, we pay benefits and have like all this different stuff.
Not everybody wants that as a job.
Some people want to work one hour a day.
Some people want to work five hours a day.
Some people want to work 10 hours a day, right?
Some people want to work in a week and then take another week off.
Some people want to, they just have the freedom, right?
And the way our system works is, you know, kind of like Uber, you can literally, there's
a list of tasks and after you're approved and trained to work for us, you just log in,
you click, I want a new article, you write the article and then you send it in.
That's it.
You can stop working.
You can do more, whatever you want to do.
It's a lot like Fiverr or one of those gig based companies where depending on whatever
your creative skill is, whether it be writing, video editing, photography, graphic design,
you can basically go in, find a bank of jobs that need to be done and pick what you want
to do and then get paid for it.
You know, ours is a little different because we like actually train everyone that comes
in and they're like, it's very specific for what they do.
All the writers are trained on exactly how to write it in an SEO optimized way, how to
write for web, how to do interlinking.
They have to hit a certain level before they can actually be approved to do those jobs.
Yeah, actually we only hire like the top 1% of writers, like literally for every 100
people apply it, we only hire one person or one person, but in terms of the model, yes.
The whole economy of being able to, like the gig economy, right?
It's blowing up, it's changing like the way people work now and I think that's actually
one of the reasons that we are successful.
We sell the services really well because we're a marketing company, but that allows us to
scale and keep our costs, you know, right in line where they need to be.
What did you say you went to college for?
And you went to college in Chicago?
No, I went to college at Indiana University.
Oh, Indiana.
Yeah, and at the time they called my degree telecommunications, which sounds, I've never
heard of that.
It's because it won the award for the worst name of a degree to get ever made.
Telecommunication.
So you went to, you got a degree for telemarketing?
Yeah, exactly.
So it sounds like.
Yeah.
Good thing, like I own my own company now, so I don't have to put that on a resume, you
know, people would be like, what, um, no, but I was going to like work on movies and
stuff too.
Like I made like a documentary, I did like media studies, you know, things like that.
So dude, it's kind of the thing about now today is whatever you study, it's like you
get really relevant because all the information you could ever want to learn is online.
Like you can pick any career path.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
How did you get a degree, how did you get a degree in telecommunications, wanting to
make films and documentaries and movies, and how did you train, how did you transition
into working or starting this company?
Yeah.
A marketing company?
Well, I worked on a couple of films in Indiana.
I actually worked on one, you know, Kevin Sorbo.
No.
Kevin Sorbo used to do that once he had the sword.
I'll look it up.
Kevin Sorbo?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look it up.
You'll know who the guy is and you'll be like, oh, that, that dude, um, shit, what was
the name of the, uh, the show Hercules?
Do you remember Hercules?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you see a picture, you'll be like, yes.
Yes.
I know who he is.
So he was the main actor on this film.
Dude, he is old.
Well, he is now probably.
This is, dude, I graduated in 2008.
From college?
Yeah.
So this is like 11 years ago.
Cause I'm old now.
Okay.
Time goes fast.
Um, but anyway, uh, so yeah, I wanted to work on a movie.
So I worked on a movie that was being filmed in Indiana and he was the main actor.
And I was like, this is fucking cool, dude.
Fucking Hercules.
And I went up to that dude.
This is funny.
Uh, I went up to him.
It was, I was like really scared because it was my first movie I've ever worked on.
I was a PA.
So, you know, I got there first.
I was the last one to leave just running all the time.
I was like, just trying to.
Do you remember the name of the movie?
No.
I don't remember.
I could find it though.
But I was like so scared because I was like, man, this is maybe going to be my future.
And I went up to him.
I was like, uh, Mr. Sorobo.
Hey, I'm Clayton.
Uh, this is the first movie I've ever worked on.
Do you got any advice for me?
He goes, don't fuck it up.
Hell yeah.
That's awesome.
That's fucking Hercules.
But, but yeah, I worked on that movie and it was fucking horrible and I hated it.
What did you do?
What were you, what were you doing every daily?
Running coffee around?
Yeah.
I was like running.
I went in to get the director like his prescription and he didn't have prescription.
So like I had to get the pharmacist to call his doctor and I sat there and waited while
they did it.
He's like, can't get a hold of doctors.
So I was like, I can't come back without this fucking prescription.
This is my first movie.
You know what I mean?
Stuff like that.
And then they treated me like total shit.
And I was like, fuck the movie industry.
I'm going to start a marketing company and make millions of dollars that way.
Dude, that's a great idea.
I was a PA on Dolphin Tale.
Yeah.
One of my brother's movie that was in here and it was a lot just like, it was like working
on a construction site.
My first job was construction.
It was just like working on a construction site.
And a lot of those guys, a lot of those guys that like work in those different apartments,
like there's electrical, there's camera, there's sound.
They're all just like carnies with dental plans.
That's what they call themselves.
I don't know, man, but those guys work hard as fuck.
Yeah, they do.
And like, if there was some little kid that was like bright-eyed butchers, I beat him down
too.
So, you know what I mean?
I can understand it now that I'm a little bit older, but at the time it was just so demoralizing.
Like, I just got treated like, I didn't like it.
Yeah.
But that's the way it is.
So then how did you get into starting The Hoth?
So yeah, my homie's in Chicago.
Actually one of my friends that I graduated with, we reconnected when I moved to Chicago.
And he was like, study in marketing, do affiliate marketing, started the company.
Affiliate marketing.
Yeah, affiliate marketing.
And started the company and then he was like, dude, you got to come on here.
And so I joined like super early on and then just started smashing ever since, you know?
Started smashing.
Yeah.
Smashing that like button.
Yeah.
Well, the good thing is like, dude, like I didn't know anything about SEO.
They don't teach SEO in college.
I thought SEO was dead.
Yeah.
You think SEO is dead?
It's not, dude.
Is Google dead?
Hell no.
It's like one of the biggest companies in the world, dude.
It's growing every day.
So as long as there's organic search results, you know, SEO will not be dead.
So you know, the cool thing is like I didn't study any of that, right?
And so you can literally learn anything online and that's kind of how I learn SEO.
There's so many resources and courses and all kinds of different stuff.
I do that all the time.
I still do it, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
For sure.
Anything you want to learn is online.
Anything I've ever learned, like doing this kind of shit or making video, everything
I've learned was from like a YouTube video or an article that I searched.
It's a great thing because, you know, when I was, I grew up in Indiana and I was not
poor, you know, but I got like a ton of financial aid.
Like most of my college was paid for by a financial aid just because, you know, whatever.
And you know, I saw people that were like, dude, I can't go to college or something,
you know?
And at some point in the past, that would have been like a really bad thing.
Like going to college was kind of like a ticket, like going ticket.
Now it doesn't fucking matter at all, dude.
And in fact, it's like almost, there's a very good case for going to college is a fucking
horrible idea.
You know what I mean?
Right.
Dude, four years.
Dude, if there's this dude I follow, Alex Becker, he's super smart, but he made a big case for
his like, look, if I had a course and I told you it was four years, you had to take my
course for four years and every year it costs $60,000.
And there's no guarantee that you'd get anything out of it at the end.
Dude, that would be a fucking scam, bro.
Dude would be in jail, but that's exactly what college is like right now.
But student loans are the one thing you can't escape for some reason.
Yeah, I didn't know that, but that sucks.
Bernie said he's going to wipe them out.
Yeah, except Bernie comes in and he's going to wipe them out.
Okay.
We'll see.
Well, I mean, dude, I think that there's going to be a huge revolution.
You know, like this is kind of a theme tonight that we're talking about is like this new
economy of how people are working and stuff.
It's kind of crazy is because like if someone came to me and they're a dope programmer and
they didn't go to college versus a programmer that went to college, I don't give a fuck.
You know, I care about if they can do the job and they can do the job right and they
can do the job well.
And if somebody is so motivated that they went and learned on their own, there's a good
chance that, you know, that's going to could be even better.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, for sure.
Well, I mean, like for me, like I didn't go to college for marketing and I can outmarket
like many people that come in to, you know, the office, you know, dude, we have masterminds
where people pay $50,000 and they come in, I do like a day with them.
You know what I'm saying?
And these are very smart, savvy marketers.
So you know what I'm saying?
I didn't learn any of that stuff from college or anything like I learned.
You learn that in the trenches and books and courses and just getting after it.
Yeah.
And you ran the company out of Medellin, Columbia for a while.
Well, like I said, it was like a virtual company because you can start a company without
that was the beginning.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can start a company without an office now.
It's great.
Of course.
It's a virtual company.
There's a company right now called Zappier.
You ever heard of it?
No.
That Zappier, like, if you ever want to be like, hey, fill this form and then I want
it to send it to an email or I want it to like go into a Google doc or something like
that, Zappier connects all the APIs online.
Okay.
Anyway, it's a big company that a lot of people use.
Okay.
All right.
They have 200 employees and they are 100% virtual, dude.
You can.
It's like a lead generation type thing.
No, no, no.
It just connects all types of apps.
You want to connect Salesforce to Lufu, you want to connect any kind of app that you would
normally need a programmer to connect.
Right.
You need this lead to go over here.
Okay.
That's what it does.
Wow.
So, but anyway, the whole point is that it's a virtual company.
It's a big one.
It controls a lot of parts of the internet.
200 employees, 100% virtual, dude.
You can totally do a virtual company and that's kind of the way we operated for a long period
of time.
200 employees is kind of a lot of employees.
It's a lot.
Fuck yeah.
That's a lot.
That's a lot.
So, you can totally run a virtual company.
So when I moved to Medellin in 2014, we were a virtual company, but we only had a handful
of people.
I mean, we clearly had like a ton of people that were like freelancers, but it was always
like that.
I'm talking about like core team.
And then in 2014, we actually weren't as big as we are now.
I mean, I went through like a big personal transformation right before I moved to, right
before and during when I moved to Medellin.
Why?
Um, this is like where everybody that's like stuck, you know, right before you have this
big breakthrough, it's always like something internal, dude.
It's always something about you.
You think it's like your situation that's holding you back or something, but it's like
it's totally internal.
And that's what happened to me, man.
I was in Chicago and I was, Chicago was like one of the best places on earth during the
summer and then the winter is coming.
And then so one, so one summer or one, uh, winter, it was my fifth year there.
The, um, I was on my 18th month of winter, um, dude, because it's so fucking long.
It's horrible.
God damn.
Anyway, um, so the company was like just kind of stalled and I didn't know marketing at
the time.
I was not that good.
I was, I used to run ops.
You just run operations for it.
Okay.
Uh, dude, I was on the 18th month of winter and it wasn't growing and I wasn't growing
and I was like getting kind of frustrated and I was just, every night I would just,
uh, drink.
I would go and I would grab, you know, I put on like my, uh, a coat and scarf and everything
waddle down to this little corner liquor store, get a bottle of gin, come back and
make gin sales because I was trying to save a little calories, you know, cause I was still
self conscious.
You drink by yourself or you get a bars?
Fuck yeah.
I drink by myself.
Dude, uh, and I would sit there and I would watch how I met your mother just get fucked
up every night, dude.
And then I'd wake up in the morning and I would like try to work as much as I could
until I could anymore and I would start drinking again.
So I was like a functional alcohol, a functional alcoholic, you know.
And um, not like, were you drinking it all at work or no?
No, no.
Work was my table, dude.
It was a virtual company.
I would work at home.
Oh shit.
You were working in your apartment?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
The whole company is virtual.
Okay.
I thought maybe, maybe you guys had like a, like a, like a universal space you guys
worked in maybe.
No, no, no.
In Chicago.
No.
No.
There was an office.
It was a virtual company.
Okay.
No office.
What I meant was maybe you guys still had like a.
Now it's different.
Okay.
Now it's different.
But yeah, we literally had no office.
So, um, I would just watch how I met your mother, which, you know, you can watch that
brainless, you know.
So I've never seen that.
So anyway, the winter time was hard on me, man.
It was really, it was hard, like emotionally.
And there was one day I woke up and I was working and I just like couldn't work anymore.
I like literally just went out from the desk like, and I sat on the couch.
And I felt like this pressure on my chest.
Like I laid down and I just felt like so much pressure on my chest.
And I was like, it's kind of hard to breathe.
And that moment I was like, what the fuck are you doing, dude?
And so I had this like immediate thing that's like, dude, you have to change.
And I was like, what am I going to do?
I was like, first of all, fuck Chicago winner.
Never doing this shit again.
I'm moving somewhere else.
And then I was like, where should I go?
Let's go to Medellin, Columbia.
I'm going to sell everything that I have and it's fucking go.
So that's exactly what I did.
You know, I planned for it.
My lease got up, sold everything.
Why Columbia?
Well, the cool thing is, you know, someone actually invited me there like the year before.
So I went for like one month before.
OK. And then I met some cool friends and I was like, I can just go back there.
You know, so just that one little trip is like dipping your toe in the water is enough
to make you have the confidence to be able to go.
So that's what I did, man.
And I moved to Columbia and when I got there, you know,
I just started changing everything.
Right. And I think that I was looking for something.
I didn't know what it was, but I was looking for something.
And the cool thing is that sometimes when you go looking for something, you find it.
Right. And that's what kind of it was for me.
Not that Medellin in particular has like something magical, which I do think it is magical.
But the idea that, you know, this like thing happened to me like this, that moment.
I remember where it was just like it was a breaking point of like struggle.
It was like I couldn't grow.
Didn't know I was doing Miller's Chicago winter.
And that was a breaking point.
And I was like, I have to go find something.
I want to look at it and just did that big break.
And as soon as that happened, like everything changed, I started looking for
how to like get up in the morning, how to start a morning routine, how to like set goals.
And then I was also in a really good, like new environment with no fucking snow.
Way better. Yeah.
And all that shit started happening.
And I started, you know, just mapping it all out.
And then, you know, you could just, you just, you can just see like in every way from like,
if you look at our like revenue growth, you can just see like, boom, October 2014.
Like that. Really?
Yeah. Yeah, for sure, man.
We were, we were stalled out for like a whole year.
We were doing the same revenue every month.
Now, there was a time where you sold the company, right?
There were some people came in and bought, purchased the company, but you stayed,
you stayed with the company during the transition or whatever.
Did that happen before or after you moved to?
That was before. That was before.
So like we sold it in 2013, like early 2013, something like that.
Sold it to another company.
And then the other founders left and I stayed on and got a little bump in revenue
and then we flatlined and then that whole, like at the end of that first year
of just flatlining, that's when that kind of happened.
I think that right before you moved there was maybe the first time I met Mark.
Oh, yeah.
During that hostomania times.
Dude, I love Mark.
Mark is one of the owners of the company that bought the Hoth.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I met him during the hostomania.
This, I, this company idea he had where he wanted Hulk Hogan
to be like a competitor for GoDaddy.
And it was like a Hulk Hogan based,
what do you call it, hosting company?
It's a hostomania. Hostomania.
Yeah, I got looped into that project for like 20 minutes, too.
So like a Hulk hit me up and he's like,
Hey, I need you to shoot a commercial for these internet guys.
They want to do a hosting company all about me.
We're going to take down the hostgator brother.
Yeah, that's how I, that's how I met Mark doing that wrecking ball.
We did it. Oh, yeah.
We put him on the wrecking ball and Hulk Hogan smashed through.
That was famous, dude.
We'll live on internet history forever.
That will Hulk Hogan wrecking ball.
Just search that on YouTube.
There's a genius.
And then I remember shortly after that, they invited me to Vegas.
And then I remember him and David like on the computer, like, check out this Hoth.
It's this new thing we got.
Look at this. Yeah.
Five grand a day.
Yeah, we're like a little baby company at that.
I mean, not baby company.
I mean, we did, we were doing maybe like a a million dollars in revenue or something
a year, a year, a year. Yeah.
So it was a successful company.
But what's it do now?
Can you talk about that or no?
Yeah, I mean, our numbers are in the INC list.
So. Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah.
So probably do.
Do like a million and a half per month right now.
So per month, yeah, quite a bit of growth.
Yeah.
What was the the difference between when you made that change?
Like how much money were you making then?
And then when you changed to went to Columbia and you saw that big spike,
like what was the difference?
We were probably making like between 80 and $100,000 a month
when I went to Columbia and then now we make like $1.5 million a month.
So there's like a 15 X growth.
And the last like handful of years, whatever is it?
Four years. Yeah, that's awesome.
So what specifically did you do in Columbia that that made that that change?
Lots of things, man.
I think like there's some like obvious shit that's not taught
and actually made me mad about school, made me mad about like how like
there's so many things that didn't teach you none of it.
And there's so many like really, really important things
that if you want to do shit, you need to know these things, right?
So a lot of it is like personal stuff.
Like how do you perceive the world?
Like one of the things is take 100 percent responsibility for everything.
Like a lot of people go through and they're like,
this situation happened to me, I fucking can't do this because this is whatever.
It's like you have to eliminate that shit.
You have to eliminate any kind of complaining
and you have to just take responsibility for everything and be like,
dude, whatever, this is my responsibility.
Like it's not your situation.
It's you all the time.
It doesn't matter if it's right or wrong.
Like that's just a mentality thing and that it's hard
because being like, oh, this person did this thing to me or this happened to me.
Like that's an easy way out.
You know, that feels good because you're like saying,
I don't have any of that responsibility.
You know, like that's not my fault.
You know, and when you go like, shit, maybe it is my fault
or maybe I just have to take responsibility for it anyway.
But that's fucking hard to do.
But ultimately that gives you confidence, you know,
because you were the one that can actually fucking do something about it now.
It gives you like that ability to be like, all right,
I'm taking a fucking responsibility for this and I'm going to do something about it.
You know, I don't care if it was right or wrong or whatever,
something happened to me because it's not my responsibility.
And that gives you the power.
Now you got the power to change shit.
OK. And, dude, people can change.
You can change a lot of shit.
You can fucking change everything, dude.
And you did change everything.
Fuck, yeah, I changed everything.
Are you kidding?
Dude, there's so many crazy shits that happened.
So many crazy things that happened in Colombia in terms of like mentality.
Yeah. That that made me believe that this is true.
And it's hard.
Like if your shit is not going very well or you're stuck or whatever,
it's like almost impossible to believe that what I'm saying is true
until you like start seeing it like little things.
Well, if I could like real back everything to one thing
that I kind of like focus back on that helps is just this
this phrase of think about what you want.
Not what you don't want.
So most of the time that if you feel like super bad or whatever,
you're you're almost always thinking about what you don't want.
You're like, oh, man, you're running away from things that are running towards things.
Well, it's you're focusing on the right.
Right. You're like, oh, man, I didn't get this raise.
I didn't get this money or this fucking shit's hard or whatever.
You're thinking about the shit that you don't want.
What you do want is you want to get the money
or you want to get the viewers or you want to get whatever.
And so if you only focus on that and you start thinking like, OK,
how could I get it? Your mind starts to get really creative
on different ways that you could try, you know?
And as soon as you start feeling bad again, you just check yourself and go,
wait, what am I thinking about?
Is I'm thinking about something I don't want or what I do want?
Well, let me give you an example.
Here's one of the crazy things that happened is that I started dating a girl
who's now my wife, Booyah.
Yeah, I started dating Wendy.
She's Colombian, clearly.
And what's crazy is that like in the US,
we get passports and we can go all over the world.
So if I'm like, yo, do you want to go to Costa Rica?
You want to go to Paris?
Whatever you want, we can just go.
You don't even think about it. Just go.
Not everybody in the world can do that.
Like you need like visas and stuff if you have a different kind of passport.
So, for instance, Colombia, if you come to the US, you have to get a tourist visa,
which means you literally have to fly to it, apply it to fly to the capital.
You have to go an in-person interview to get the visa to even come to the US.
OK. Wow. And they deny lots of people.
Yeah. And and, you know,
so the people that they want to approve are people that are going to go back to
Colombia, right? Because it's a tourist visa. OK.
And so they the typical person that they're going to deny
is like a single girl.
Right. He's getting married to come over here.
Well, well, no, they would typically deny
somebody that's single and is a girl and doesn't have a lot of money
because the likelihood that she's going to stay illegally in the US is very low.
Is very high. Right.
They don't want people to stay US illegal, stay illegal.
Yeah, they want people to come in and get the fuck back out.
Right. They want to get back to Colombia.
They want you to go back to Colombia. Right.
They don't want you to stay illegally in the US, because now.
But if you're a single girl, you're going to chances are you're going to go there.
You're going to get married and then you're going to become a citizen.
Right. It could happen like that.
But they just don't.
If on a tourist visa, they want people to leave the US.
They want people to come in the US and then leave.
Yeah. And they want to make sure that you have a reason to go back.
And if you don't have a reason, big reason to go back,
they're probably going to deny you your visa.
So anyway.
So my friends had girlfriends that they wanted to show the US to.
Right. A bunch of people from my friends from the US.
A bunch of expats.
A bunch of expats living in Colombia.
And they want to take their Colombian girlfriends.
And they would they would apply and pay like a couple hundred books or whatever.
Hundreds of dollars to apply for the visa.
And they would fly them to Bogota, which is the capital.
They would go to the interview and guess what?
Fucking denied.
Like I have one friend sent his girl up there, boom, denied.
Another friend sent his girl up there, boom, denied.
Another one, like three in a row, dude.
And so I'm like, I want Wendy to come meet my family and stuff.
And I'm like, dude, we don't the likelihood of this is going to happen is very low.
You know, we just saw it.
Like my friends, three people denied right in a row.
So I went back to that mentality.
Like I think about what you don't want or what you do want.
And so we started thinking about, OK, if we want to do it, how can we do it?
What are we going to do differently?
So we got lawyer, we got a plan.
We made it, made her have like a reason to go to the US.
Yeah, like we got her registered for a conference.
I called up, I called up the conference is that Northwestern University.
I was like, hey, it's an international student.
She was like, I mean, this is actually a microbiology conference.
Because that's what she studies. Right.
Anyway, got them to send like a sealed letter head like invitation that showed.
And so when I had a lawyer and I had a lawyer practice questions
with Wendy for like, what's what's going to, you know,
how they're going to do the interview and stuff.
So she really prepared.
So when she went to do the interview,
she flew on the plane sat next to girl.
You know, she was doing the same thing.
She was going to go in and get a visa.
And when you wait in line with this girl and she went out and she came out crying.
She got her.
The other girl got denied.
The other girl got denied.
She was in the plane with.
But yeah, but Wendy went in there and crushed it and came out with an approved.
Wow, dude.
I know, dude.
That's crazy. They gave you the answer right then and there.
Yeah, they do.
But that's just like that's one of the crazy like examples of like doing this
whole thing, this whole personal transformation that was like, dude,
this shit's real.
Like you can change anything by the way that you think.
So that's just one of the many things that happened that made me believe
like the way I do now.
Yeah, it's a whole different change in your whole your whole perspective on things.
Yeah. So what was it's not it's not like the situation, dude.
It's like you, you know, it's like internal.
It's yeah, I think.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, it's not where you are.
It's not there's no like like you said,
there's no excuse that you can that you can make about your surrounding
or your environment or or anything else.
It's all in your head.
You can make you can make excuses.
You can do whatever the fuck that you want.
Right. But this is what I mean.
Like what do you want to do?
Like you are your biggest limiting factor.
Right. You know, so you think,
well, I guess no, Chicago, I mean, is known for just booze and food.
Yeah. What I mean, what is what is Medellin known for?
I mean, that's it's known for fucking drugs and partying, right?
Yeah, kind of.
I mean, that's kind of the weird.
Oh, what's that sound?
We get that all the time.
Fuck it.
Traffic.
The that's the weird thing is that people know Medellin
for what they've seen in the movies, cocaine, right?
And like, to be honest,
I didn't I didn't know anything about Medellin before I moved there.
I like Medellin was never on my list of places to go.
Really? You know, I had like Rome, Paris.
Yeah, Medellin was the one.
Yeah, like Columbia.
I was like, what what the fuck is in Columbia?
That's crazy, because when you told me that I'd never been there,
you wouldn't when you first told me that you lived there.
I was like, holy shit, because I've read books all about.
I've read like multiple books about it.
Yeah. And dude, Columbia, so, you know,
it's known for what happened in, you know, 70s, what not, 80s.
Pablo Escobar and whatnot.
But the crazy thing is like that shit died like a long time ago.
You know, that did die like 15 plus years ago that's been gone.
And they've been trying to like change the reputation ever since.
Not that drugs don't exist, but fuck, man, drugs exist everywhere.
Chicago is a murder capital of, you know, the US or at least was for a period of time.
Right. And so, dude, there's drugs and murders everywhere in any big urban city.
You know, but it's really beautiful, though, because I mean, for me,
I have a personal connection to it for, well, many things.
Well, you got your wife there.
I found my wife there and I had a great time there.
And I met a lot of amazing people when I was there.
But Medellin is kind of crazy.
You just have to experience it for yourself.
First thing is when you come into the city, it's in a valley.
So you come in from the airport and when you first get into it,
and you can see the valley, there's like literally lights going up both sides.
It's the weirdest sight you've ever seen.
So it's like no matter where you are in Medellin from above or below,
you have a view.
So like because it's lights going up both sides of the mountains.
It's crazy. You got to just check out a picture of it so you can see it.
Yeah. And then you come into Medellin and it's it's strange
because on one hand it's like super developed and some downtown areas.
Like you remember seeing the picture of the building that I lived in?
Oh, yeah, super modern, super brand new building.
Yeah, crazy.
But then you can also drive down the street ten minutes and see like what
like kind of poverty that I've never seen before in my life.
So it has a little bit of both.
They're trying to really totally transform it.
And actually they've done some really amazing things.
They have this thing called the metro cable, which essentially one of the hard
things about poor communities is like you can't get like transportation to go
get a job and especially Medellin with the geography like with going up the hills
to walk down a fucking mountain to go get a job is literally impossible.
So right. So that would mean poor communities to stay poor.
So what they did is they put these crazy metro cable things that you can like
it's like little gondola things that ride on cables up above and they can go down
and you get a ski lift.
Yeah, ski lift turns up like that and it connects to the metro,
which is like, you know, the buses and the trains that go all around the city.
So it allows poor, you know, poor community, poor communities have access.
And so that's a big thing.
And then they're also like pushing for technology coming into the city
and like doing kind of incubators and startups.
And there's a startup scene there.
Really? Dude, there's a WeWork.
There's like young hustlers down there, like trying to start up big, big online
marketing companies. Yeah, for sure. And there's like WeWork is down there.
Oh, really? Yeah. We work.
I mean, WeWork has an office.
There's a Y Combinator startup called Wrappy.
Y Combinator is like a startup accelerator.
And there's a company called Wrappy that went through Y Combinator
and then blew up in Columbia.
Crazy thing, dude.
Wrappy is a service.
It's kind of like Uber Eats, but, you know, Uber Eats is like doubles the price
when you go get it because we're in America and people need paid money
and cars are expensive.
Well, in Columbia, where the cost of living is way lower,
there's a lot more available workers and they ride on like little
motorcycles or like like mopeds or whatever, like all day.
So they just zip around the city.
So the cost of labor is low.
The ability to go get.
Bring your mic a little closer.
Yeah, ability to scoot it if you want.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So the ability to go get like stuff and pick it up is really fast.
Yeah. And so to get something delivered there,
it costs like a dollar or two, you know, like versus like 10.
And so Wrappy is a company that literally said like they just developed an app
and they got a bunch of people like riding scooters all around town.
And so Wrappy blew up in Columbia.
And what's crazy is, you know, how
Venezuela had, you know, like Venezuela economy, like collapse
and a bunch of bad chicken on Venezuela, a bunch of those people migrated
to Columbia looking for jobs right at the same time that Wrappy was blowing up.
So all those people that were available.
Yes, they're all available and they start working for Wrappy.
So Wrappy, like to some extent, is saving the Venezuelan, you know,
what do they call it, the people that are moving out of Venezuela?
Really? It was wild and everyone loves it.
Because now, literally, if you live in Colombia,
you can get everything delivered to your house for like pennies.
You know what I mean? So sick.
Yeah, it is super sick.
Wendy never left the house.
It just ordered everything.
You literally order.
It's like having Amazon here.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like room service for anything you want, like at your house.
Is it true?
Like most of the people in Colombia are super Christian
because you were telling me that they really put Christmas
on like a whole another level in Colombia.
Oh, sure. Yeah.
Well, I don't know like the Christmas lights are just like on a whole
another level, like the whole city is lit up and dude, it is wild.
Like I don't know if I can accurately judge
like percentages of religious people in Colombia.
I mean, there's a lot of Christians, a lot of Catholics and stuff like that.
But in general, the Christmas spirit is on, dude, it is on, dude.
Every single pictures are insane.
Every single house has crazy lights.
And I was like, dude, straight up, this is a business opportunity.
If you want to sell lights, you like you would sell lights to literally
if you just search Christmas lights in Colombia, dude.
Oh, my God.
And the parks are even more insane.
Yeah. I mean, the parks, they go all out, dude, lights everywhere.
It's like you're walking through a whole other fucking universe
with all the lights they put up.
That's part of the Colombian spirit is they're like they're very
they love celebrating, you know what I mean?
Whether like things are going good or bad,
you know, people celebrate and they celebrate together
very like into the family, very into celebrating.
Like it's kind of a cool thing.
I don't know. Yeah.
It's a little weird, dude.
Think about little Indiana boy me
like going out to the first time I went to Wendy's mom's house
and like, dude, there it isn't like you go hang out with like Wendy's friends in a house.
Like there they live.
Most people live with their family until they get married.
Yeah. In Colombia.
In Colombia. Right.
And then they still continue to like hang out their family
like all the time, like every weekend, you know, multiple times a week.
We're like in the U.S.
I mean, this is very general.
I'm just saying in general, we love independence, dude.
Once we're out, you know, we're out. Right.
But they like it's so, so family oriented.
So the first time.
Yeah, everybody down there parties with their family all the time.
Like you a party and you're on a party with your parents and your brothers and sisters.
Yeah, your party with your parents, brothers, sisters and uncle.
Grandpa's and everybody.
Yeah, the whole family.
Yeah. And the first time I went there, I'm like, there's 40 people at Wendy's house.
You know, it's like every uncle, cousin and you and then, dude,
they're doing like salsa dancing.
And I was a little white nerd.
Yeah, I'm a little white nerd.
I had no idea what's going on, man.
Man. But then like after you, because like the first time you hear that type of music,
you're like, and but then you get into it.
And now I love it.
There's a special thing about it.
Oh, they don't give a fuck.
They just dance like there's no tomorrow, dude.
And you think that, dude, like, you know, like in college, like they'll teach you
like blackout and like, they're like, yeah, we party harder than anybody else.
Dude, that shit is fucking nothing compared to Colombians, dude.
They will literally party for days, dude.
All right, all that cocaine.
Dude, I don't know.
Actually, I think they're they're good at pacing themselves, too.
And they also just straight love partying.
Like literally, I'll go and I'll drink to I'll drink too much.
I'll drink like I was taught in college to like get drunk.
And then like, I'll go home and pass out.
And then I'm getting, you know, pictures the next day called face chat,
you know, like Wendy's mom's like FaceTiming or something.
And they're like, we're still party.
I'm like, what the fuck, dude, all night long, you're still going.
Damn, dude, it's wild.
And it's not just like, oh, that happened one time.
It happens every time, every single time, dude.
It's wild. I love it.
It's a beautiful thing, dude. You got to go.
I want you to get it.
And you can't just like hang out with friends of Colombia.
You got to go hang out with the Colombian family and feel it.
Yeah. You got to stay with somebody's house with their family
and let them cook for you and do all that.
Oh, yeah, they're going to cook.
Dude, they have a system, man.
They got like a whole system of how to party.
They know the meals to make.
What about the food? How is the food there?
Food's good. There's there's a lot to say.
Because I mean, Chicago's got good food to do.
It's not a gastronomic center of the world.
Like if you go to like Italy, man, Italian food is amazing,
you know, or whatever.
Or Mexico, maybe like Mexico's gastronomic center.
Colombia is not like that.
Colombia is not like, oh, man, yes,
it's a typical Latin American food, which is like meat, rice and beans.
Yeah. Yeah. And not to say that's not good.
You can have some fucking great meat, rice and beans.
But, you know, there's not a ton of it's not a gastronomic center.
But that said, that there's still some very amazing Colombian dishes.
Nothing right home about.
I had no, there is some really good stuff.
But, you know, you can't compare it to like in Italy or something.
Right, right, right, of course.
And one of the things about interesting about Medellin is like in the in the area.
Medellin. Well, they call it Medellin.
OK, so like in the double L's in Spanish, you use like, yeah,
Madeleine, it looks like it looks like Madeleine.
So if you're a U.S. and you're white, you can't pronounce anything.
It's Madeleine.
If you pronounce it like Spanish, you know, with the double L's,
it would be like Medellin, but colloquially in there,
they pronounce double L's like a hard J, like Medellin, Medellin.
Yes. And similarly, like they would say like Komote Jamas, you know.
OK, yeah, like they say Komote Jamas.
Yeah, like the double L is a hard J. Oh, wow.
So anyway, instead of like a Y. Yeah, almost.
Yeah, yeah.
So, oh, fuck.
What was I saying?
Some some stupid, probably.
So what I was saying, I was saying to Medellin,
the it's like there's some parts that are like really up and coming.
And there's some really, really nice restaurants.
Yeah. And like the area that I live.
So you can get like all different types of food and go like super nice
restaurants for like 50 percent of the price that would cost like maybe
somewhere else like in a big city. Right, right, right.
It's crazy.
So what made you decide to come back to the U.S.
Lots of things, you know, over the over the course of growing the business,
there was growing a business at different stages, different things.
And we came to a stage where it was growing so fast,
we actually needed to have an office.
And so we started getting an office and then we started adding a lot of people
to the office and they got like an office where there's like 20 plus people
working in it.
And I'm one of the dudes like supposed to be running it, you know.
And I came back and visited a couple of times and I was like the vibe,
you know, like I feel like I need to be part of the culture to because culture
is such an important part of growing a company.
Like you fuck up the culture, dude, fucks everything kind of like your mind.
Like, you know, it's not just like just go do the work.
It's all there's a lot about the mindset that you have.
So I need to make sure that that mindset is integrated into the company.
And I felt like a pull to come back and cultivate that.
You know what I mean?
And actually just be a part of it.
It's kind of weird if like one of the main dudes is, I don't know,
somewhere living, right?
Right, because so sort of your like a visual idea of what it is.
It's this giant, you have the whole 15th floor of this giant office building
in downtown St. Pete that overlooks the Tampa Bay.
Yeah, we do now.
Now, yeah.
And there's I don't know how many.
There's there's dozens and dozens of employees.
And there's like 45 people working in the office right now.
OK, OK.
And it's just like the super dope, like modern area with bean bags
and like different rooms and hangout areas and a fridge full of croix.
Yeah, typical style.
And just people just walking around, you know, doing fun shit.
And yeah, that's cool, man.
And working.
And you you weren't there in the beginning.
And now you're there.
So now you're able to walk around and talk to everybody every day.
And you guys do cool stuff and have story time.
And another part was like I couldn't really like I got married this year
and I wasn't married and, you know, before that clearly, you mean both.
So, yeah, remember, we we had some good moments together.
Yeah, we had some good moments.
You held my ring, my engagement ring while we were in Costa Rica.
Or no, where were we at?
We were in Costa Rica, Mexico, Mexico.
Yeah, those good times.
Those good times, dude.
But yeah, we we didn't used to have the office and I wasn't married.
So like if I was going to move here,
like I kind of had to marry Wendy, too.
I mean, so it all kind of happened at a really good time.
Wendy and I got married and she got her visa.
And then I was able to actually like really move here.
So that's dope, dude.
Yeah, it was beautiful.
It all worked out.
So I'm I'm a very lucky guy.
So let's go back to talk a little bit more about like marketing
and ads and shit like that.
Marketing is fucking bananas.
It's interesting how how it's how companies like yours
that have all subcontractors like like gig based workers
who just get to pick the gigs they want to work on.
I feel like America or the world in general is going that direction.
It's going to I feel like it's going to be majority of that type of work
in the future and like nine to fives are going to kind of fade out,
especially as like the college institution starts to die off,
which it's already doing and it's going to it's when it's gone
and it people aren't just going to college to get jobs.
I feel like that's going to take over.
People are it's all going to be kind of freelance work.
People just going online and getting gigs based on whatever they're good at.
I want to be good at this.
I'm going to watch a couple of videos, learn how to do it,
then I'm going to go see if I can get paid to do it.
Yeah, with someone like the Hoth or with like Fiverr or shit like that.
Yeah, well, I mean, you're talking all about a lot of different things
and in that statement.
But in general, yeah, there's way more opportunities for everybody.
And like the idea of the freelance economy,
like being able to work whenever you want or choose your work
and not have to do the same job all the time.
That idea is exploding right now.
I mean, look at what Upwork is.
Look at there's a company called TopTal.
I love Upwork, dude.
Yeah, I use it all the time.
Yeah, a lot of businesses get started on Upwork.
I have a lot of friends that started their own business.
Like a lot of friends that were like in Medellin or working virtual.
They started a company like literally on Upwork just going in
because there's people posting jobs that says like, hey, I need somebody to do this.
And you can go and you can say like, hey, man, I can do that for you.
And you get the job and then you literally just do it.
You know, it's pretty simple.
But that means you can the things that are important to you,
which is a lot of things that are important to our people, our age.
It's like I want to work, not go into that office.
Right. I do not want to commute.
They want freedom. I don't even have a car.
I want to when I want.
And or maybe like, let's say you want to like go to like another country,
like let's say somewhere in South America or maybe you want to go to Eastern Europe
or you want to go to Thailand or something like that.
There's these like big expat hubs that you can go to.
And a lot of people are like, yo, I can't afford to travel.
And the crazy thing is that it's cheaper to go there a lot of times
than it is to stay wherever you're at.
It's wild, dude. That is pretty.
And so the things that people care about, they can meet those requirements
by, you know, by doing this freelance economy type stuff.
You become a freelancer, go do whatever you want.
Don't work the typical nine to five and then you get to travel the world.
You know, just bring your MacBook with you wherever you want.
Exactly, man. And it's crazy.
I thought there was like a handful of people doing this.
No, it's like a literally global movement, man.
I met like literally hundreds of people and Medellin alone.
There's there are there are thousands right now
that are like expats from the US, from Canada, from all over the world
that have came to Medellin as like as like a nomadic center.
But that's not even a big nomadic center, dude.
Like Southeast Asia, Thailand.
That's a huge one, dude.
There's probably tens of thousands of expats there right now
working from their laptops.
That's wild. I would say working from the laptops on the beach.
But those people are fucking stupid.
Yeah. Have you have you ever who would who the fuck would take a laptop?
You know how hot those laptops get.
Dude, plus trying to read in the sun.
That's a terrible idea.
Never work from the beach with your laptop.
That sounds like hell.
You should be drinking margaritas on the beach, not working.
Yeah, you gotta fucking learn to draw a line somewhere.
Yeah, you should be working in an air conditioned apartment.
And then, yeah, that's how I would do it.
But yeah, man, outsourcing in general, like that's huge now.
And actually, I've read some statistics on freelancing.
I'm not going to quote any because I would sound stupid
because I don't know them off the top of my head.
Yeah. But the freelancing economy,
the idea that bigger companies, instead of hiring somebody now,
like in onboarding them and paying benefits and all this kind of stuff,
they're really a lot of companies are now into just hiring a person
specific for this job.
They don't care where you are, whatever.
They'll pay you even more than they would pay like a normal person
because to onboard a person is crazy high.
If they can hire a specialist, they can just come in and nail a project.
That's that's really growing.
That's why the freelance economy is growing so much right now.
Yeah. And also like like basic media companies like like Forbes or
or any kind of magazine, vice, their majority of their people are remote.
And they're just writing articles for a flat rate that get posted on a website.
I mean, I mean, Forbes is a great, great example of that.
Well, I mean, in industries where it typically costs a lot to produce something,
I think writing is a big one.
I mean, think about how much it costs to onboard a writer,
pay for their benefits, their salary, have them in an office.
Dude, our office costs twenty five thousand dollars a month.
Right. Right. Right.
Every month. Yeah.
That's not like including snacks, all that other
everything, whatever. The power bill. Yeah.
So so men, think about like what if that expense just doesn't happen now?
There's ways that you can cut costs and like people don't people don't even want
to come to the office. They fucking hate traffic, dude.
So fine. No, no office.
All right, you work first. We'll hire a freelancer, dude.
You cut out tons of expenses.
The product that stays the same.
You know what I mean?
Actually, it might even get better because the writers are happier about
whatever they're doing. So what's the point there at home? Exactly.
So for us, there's some positions where it makes sense to have an office.
I'm we're not going to get rid of an office because we need it.
There's different times at a company, we need different things.
Right now, like a lot of people in the office are managers,
like people that manage the 500 people, the 500 outsourced team.
Yeah. And we want that person to office for a lot of other reasons.
Right. Right. Right.
But the idea of companies hiring freelancers to just snipe projects
like that economy is exploding.
So somebody is thinking about like, oh, I don't know,
should I get a real job or should I be a freelancer?
If you're talented, dude, there's a huge economy.
There's. Oh, hell, yeah.
If you want to go after it, dude, there's a huge economy.
A lot of people are afraid, though, to leave that nine to five.
You know, I mean, leave the security of that with all the benefits
to just go full time freelance.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a scary jump to make until you do it.
Well, until you have, you see one billion other people doing it.
I mean, I actually have this, like this theory.
It's called the River Theory.
It's for wussies like me.
Like I am. I'm a very risk averse person or used to be.
I'm a little less now, but I mean, I've come from like middle of Indiana,
like I'm conservative, you know, like I'm very risk averse.
I don't want to take risk.
I'm like not necessarily an entrepreneur at heart, not from beginning.
Right. Right.
And like I have this theory, like the River Theory, which means is like,
if you know, you want to go in that direction, you know,
but you're too scared to like just go there, you can like just get around
people that are going there and hop in the river with them.
And like, you know, yeah, yeah, that that it'll help you like get get there.
That's that's a way that that is a good way.
That's a good just get around people that are going where you want to go
or or are where you want to go and then it's crazy how like things become possible.
Yeah. Like, do you remember there's a big, you know,
Roger Bannister, I think this is his name.
He's the guy that first ran the four minute mile.
Something like that. Five minute mile.
I don't think I've heard of him.
Anyways, the first guy that broke like the five minute mile.
That sounds so stupid because I don't know if it's a five minute, four minute mile.
Tomato tomato.
Anyway, so yeah, this guy, nobody could run that fast.
And then this guy broke it.
And then right after that, like 10 more people broke that record.
OK, so the whole the whole idea being that like,
dude, once you know it's possible, exactly, everybody can do it.
So if you could just go find those people,
which there's communities everywhere to find out people that are like you
that are doing what you want to do, then it becomes possible in your mind.
And then like immediately like you can start doing that stuff.
Right. Right. You know, that that's that's the way to hack it.
Do you guys work with like any publishing companies or any like big
like media companies or anything like that or kind of we have some things
in the work right now with some crazy big like multi-billion dollar companies
because of like literally what we're talking about right now, which is
publishing companies, they have a lot of costs, you know, and their costs are high
and their profits are shrinking like publishing companies.
Right. So you're trying to run like a newspaper.
You're I mean, your margins are shrinking.
So people are trying to move that digital, but digital is all about,
you know, they're selling like CPM ads on the sides, you know, like banner ads.
And that's based on CPM is like cost per cost per thousand impressions.
Right. And so they just need more inventory, you know,
and so they need and the way to get more inventory is to have more articles
that rank in Google.
And so the cost of them having like people in office, like journalists
or writing articles, crazy, is like so high.
And plus the articles that they write are news.
So they go up and they go down.
Like they don't rank in Google for like a long time.
Right. Like this happened today.
Tomorrow, we don't care about that.
That's our new shit all the time.
So we have an ability to create this like evergreen content.
Plus we're an SEO company that ranks stuff.
Yeah. And so we have some things that we've been, you know,
working on some different models that, you know,
this could be pretty interesting for a publishing industry because we have
literally a workhouse of 500 people and we can triple that very easily.
We're literally producing.
We're producing over 50 million words of content, you know, per year.
Like, you know what I'm saying?
It's fucking insane.
Way, way over 50 million.
Okay. This just depends.
I'm just trying to give you the scale of what we can create.
And we create content that is evergreen, meaning that it will rank forever.
It's already optimized for SEO, you know what I mean?
And yeah, we can just do it at a very low cost, like a wholesale cost
because everything that we built is scalable, processized,
and it's built by cost per, you know, article outsourced workers.
Right. That's interesting.
It's like they're trying to, they're trying to just like feed the,
I mean, it's a whole argument of like quality versus quantity.
And obviously it's in Google.
It's like quantity wins.
Well, it seems like that. Is that true? I mean, you need both.
You need both. How do you have both?
How do you how do you have like find a balance between quantity and quality?
Because I mean, there's like, there's people are fucking on YouTube.
We just sit there and talk to the camera about nothing for 10 minutes
and they do it every single day and they just get insane amount of fucking views.
I think there's like, there's different.
I don't want to comment on it all because there's different reasons
that certain things happen, right?
But in for Google, what works is having a big fucking website, right?
Meaning like you ever see the same sites come up all the time,
you know, like Wikipedia comes up fucking every search, right?
OK, that's because Wikipedia is like an amazingly strong website
and it has a billion pages on it, right?
So Google loves these big websites that are big brands,
these big trustworthy brands.
And so you got to have a if you have a lot of quantity,
yes, that's good for multiple reasons.
Number one is because it's going to make your website bigger.
So you're like a bigger brand in Google's eyes.
You have you have more pages.
And number two, you got more pages.
That means you got more chances to rank.
You can write about everything.
OK, I'm saying right.
So you have more chances to rank
because every single page is about some kind of different keyword
that somebody searching, right?
OK, so that's quality.
But then you also have to have quality
because if people come to your website,
the best thing is is keep them coming back to your website.
And if they get to your website and you have shitty content
and they're like, yeah, this website sucks,
they're never going to come back to your website again.
So you have to have both.
The good thing is like we found a way to do both, right?
We only hire the top one percent of writers.
So we know we got quality.
We train them, all this kind of stuff.
And then we do it on a very scalable process.
So we have shit loads of scale.
We can produce literally thousands of articles a week.
Yeah. So we got both.
And that's the way to do it, do both quality and quality.
But you can't mix quality and quality
because then you'll go fucking broke.
Well, if you're one person, you can't mix them, right?
If you're one person, you either like bang out a bunch of articles
or you pay a couple. Yeah.
But even if you're not one person, we have a lot of people
that are trained to do the same thing.
Yeah, but you mean if you want to have both at the same time,
you have to hire the best of the best,
the best journalists, the best writers,
the best video producers, whatever.
You can't afford to hire the best of the best times a thousand.
I mean, you have to be able to you have to be able to compromise.
And that's where that's where you got to do.
That's why I can't comment on on every single way that quantity and quality.
I'm talking about from an SEO perspective and publishers.
OK. And I mean, you know, like regular publishers.
Yeah. There is definitely, you know, like let's say HBO or something.
You know, they like every show has got to be pretty fucking good quality.
You know what I mean?
They're going to spend a lot of money to produce one episode of one show.
How's their fucking SEO, HBO?
They don't they don't need.
I mean, they might need SEO, but I mean, like that's not their gig.
You know, that's not how they make their money through SEO.
Because people know that's a very good example.
That's a very good example.
HBO is a very good example.
Yeah, because they only spend, I mean, look at Game of Thrones.
They spend how many millions of dollars per episode over five million an episode.
Right. And in that case, it makes way more sense to do quality.
Right. I mean, but they still did quantity, too.
Because they did fuck 12 seasons.
Yeah, they did.
They spent so much fucking money, dude.
Every every episode was a movie making it back though.
What's that got to make it back?
Make them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So I don't know, Netflix is.
So what's a stronger brand?
HBO or Wikipedia?
Dude, these are two totally different things and two totally different marketing.
I would say that HBO is a stronger brand
because Wikipedia is asking me for $5 every time I'll go to their website.
So they're poor, they're fucking broke, they're fucking broke.
Are people paying it?
I think so. I don't know what actually happened with Wikipedia.
I didn't I didn't pay for it.
But this fucking kid's sucking down the White Claws.
Dude, I had one.
I only had like two of them.
I know this guy's had like six, two.
The problem is White Claws is I need double strength.
Maybe we need an app that can deliver as White Claws.
Fuck, yeah, dude, rapping needs to exist in the US.
But the problem is we need to get like a bunch of like low low.
We need to like totally change the minimum wage
to be able to like make it financially viable, you know what I mean?
And also we have to we have to we have to construct cities in a different way.
So all the buildings are close together.
And then everyone has to ride motorcycles and stuff.
So see, there's just there's just things that are different
that that make it economically feasible.
So what's the key to making like a podcast?
Good, you guys do like a hundred of them a day.
If I know, dude, I don't run.
But yeah, you got to think about it like a website, right?
You got to have more pages now.
Everything is different.
So YouTube is not the same.
So YouTube does not rank the same as Google.
Yeah, we were talking about this yesterday.
Yeah, because we were I was like, the thing about YouTube is OK.
So I live in the Google world, right?
Because Google is the largest search engine in the world.
Google is like one of the biggest companies in the world.
And do literally just ranking on Google can make you literally millions of dollars.
Yeah, just ranking if you're in the right industry and stuff like that.
You can make or break your business 100 percent.
And the thing is like when people go to Google every time, they they're typing
at something because they're looking for something.
They're trying to solve the problem, right?
That's like there's an intent of that search, right?
I need to figure out how to get this wine out of my carpet.
I'm looking for a fucking plumber.
You know, they're looking for something very specific, right?
Where YouTube is a little bit different.
Most most of the traffic on YouTube to people's videos is not by people searching.
Even though YouTube is the second largest search engine in the world,
most of the traffic is not via people searching.
Most of the traffic is people that see this shit on the right hand side.
It says like suggested videos.
They're clicking on that, right?
That's where like 80 percent.
What's up?
Talk a little bit closer.
That's where like 80 percent of your traffic is coming from.
It is like people click on suggested videos.
So while optimizing for searches in YouTube is important, people are looking for things.
People search for things in YouTube.
The more important thing for YouTube is to have like a clickbaity type title
or a good, you know, and or a good thumbnail, right?
So I think that's why, like, you know, viral type stuff works on YouTube so well.
It's because people just keep clicking on that shit.
You know, they're not searching for things.
When I am, though, whenever I want to find something,
I it's probably a 50-50.
I'm going to YouTube to find the answer.
No, don't get me wrong.
Not that people.
It's not that people do not search on YouTube.
There's a lot of people that do.
But I'm saying the majority of traffic that people get to their videos
is through suggested videos.
OK, yeah.
So if you look on your channel, I mean, if you look on your channel
and you break down like, oh, it's like to show you, I can look at it right now.
It's all it's like 80 percent suggested videos, probably.
So you should optimize for SEO like you should optimize your titles and stuff.
If you're talking about something specific, if you have a guest on,
that's really popular when people type in their name, they're searching for it.
Yeah, definitely have that in your title.
But I would prefer to have a crazy title.
Suggested videos, 33 percent.
Browse features, 31 percent.
OK. What is browse features?
I don't know. I'm not a YouTube expert.
OK.
But most of it like is not search, right?
Search was like 30 percent.
The other 30 percent.
Search.
YouTube search, 8 percent.
8 percent. There you go.
Boom, boom, boom.
Well, look at it.
OK. And that's that's different external.
It's because people might search for concrete.
People might search for a guest that you had on.
But what they're mostly going to do is they're going to be like watching that
and they'll click over some other shit, you know, right?
That's where most of the traffic is going to be.
And so that's why you want those thumbnails look so good.
So in this video, if we were optimizing for SEO, we'd be like Clayton Johnson,
SEO, The Hoth, you know, anything that we would be talking about in this.
But I think it would work so much better if we had some kind of crazy title, you know.
Yeah. But what it? Because if you look at some of the biggest, I'm not popular.
Look, if you look at some of like the biggest thing, I mean, this is like I said,
you mean you said you're not an expert, but an argument to that would be like,
look at some of the biggest YouTube creators.
Like, for example, look at fucking PewDiePie.
You read his titles, like sometimes he just types in some weird Greek font
and just makes up some fucking bullshit.
That's what I'm saying, that he doesn't need to optimize for SEO.
So people, yeah, right.
So people are familiar with his, with his, with him and his character and his content.
And they basically, at that point, all you need to see is a thumbnail with his face
and you're just going to fucking click on it.
Yeah. I mean, if you're doing entertainment content, yeah, that's way better.
Now there, there's a big play.
Fast verse. Well, yeah, yeah, that's entertainment content.
Yeah. Now there's another play that you could do.
So like let's let's say, like, for instance, you wanted to sell Bluetooth headphones, right?
You can make a video that's like best Bluetooth headphone reviews
because people love reviews online, tech reviews.
And then like you would optimize your video for that.
And people do search for that.
That's not only going to come up when people search for headphone reviews in YouTube.
That's also going to come up in Google, too.
You know, have you ever been searching on Google and a bunch of videos up at the time?
Yeah, that's right. That's why you got to optimize that for SEO.
So that's a different play because this is an entertainment show
versus like trying to sell something or whatever.
Right. That's or like even a how to.
Right. Right. How to videos yourself or something.
There's also a whole wave of people that just don't want to be entertained.
They want to fucking learn shit.
Yeah, sure. Like they listen to these long ass videos
or listen to them on on Spotify or iTunes or whatever,
because they want to like learn new things around car.
It's like it's like listening to an audio book kind of.
Because if you have somebody on there who whatever is really like an expert
in something and you want to learn more about that, it's yeah.
So it's kind of like a whole it's very new.
It's a very new type of audience to to YouTube or to love it.
It's like a knowledge explosion.
But what people want, people really want, they want infotainment, dude.
Infotainment. What's infotainment?
Infotainment is information, but that's entertaining at the same time.
Because like, you know how when you read books as a kid in school,
you're like, OK, this is information and it's so painfully boring.
Yeah, dude. OK, information exists everywhere.
What doesn't exist is information in an entertaining way.
Right. I mean, that's why like the best
there's a bunch of people like online right now on YouTube that teach
like how to program, but it's kind of almost like a V log
while they're teaching you how to program.
You know what I mean?
They tell they tell you behind the scenes like, hey, guys, how's it going?
It's me. It's Oscar.
Today, I'm going to be programming my hacking my iPhone 12.
Yeah. And they'll do stuff like that.
Like, let me teach you how to program through this.
Smash that like button.
Well, yeah.
But they'll teach you how to like program through real world situations
or show you like, I know there's a dude that was like,
here, this is me doing an interview with Google or something like that.
And they'll like do like the interview live so you can see it.
So it's like entertaining and informative at the same time.
Yeah. Yeah.
So if if you're a content creator and you want to do how to shit,
make it entertaining because that information already exists online.
It's just painfully boring. That's true.
Yeah. People just really want to be entertained, dude.
They do. People are just bored all the time.
So like that and all the time of the phone on the Internet.
You know how bored people are?
All right.
Think about this.
How many times do people just sit?
They go through their entire day
and they get to like the last few seconds of the day
and they're just going like this in their phone, laying in their bed.
Just going like this, like, please, God,
give me like one more thing of entertainment before fucking back.
I saw a great tweet.
I saw I retweeted this.
I saw this on Twitter.
This guy posted scrolling is the new smoking.
Dude, for show, for show, man.
People are just painful. That's true.
That's why if you can give them some like good infotainment, dude,
that's where it's at.
And they can stop scrolling and watch your infotainment.
Well, if they're going to scroll,
why don't they stop on your video and give you like the ad revenue
or sell them a product or something or help them?
I mean, like, that's really at the core of it is like you're trying to help people.
They're looking for stuff, you know,
they're looking for ways to improve their life,
like get better headphones or whatever.
Infotainment.
I just saw, you know, like kids content is a huge thing on YouTube, right?
Yeah, yeah. There's a bunch of moms sitting at home being like,
how the fuck do I make?
Raise this kid.
How do I raise this kid?
I give him a fucking, I give him an iPad.
I got pregnant again.
YouTube will teach me how to do this.
Yeah, I'll just figure out how to raise this kid on YouTube.
I'm pregnant again.
Just buy another iPad.
Yeah.
YouTube had to play with kids, YouTube.
No, no, no, no.
How do I make this kid go to sleep?
Yeah, yeah, they have, they have the entertainment,
like the cartoon shit on YouTube, like YouTube kids or like kids opening,
like little kids opening toys or people opening toys
and kids will sit there and veg out on the iPads
watching these YouTube videos for hours.
Yeah.
And people use that as babysitters for their children.
Genius.
I don't know, but we're, we're in a weird generation.
We're the first generation that like grew up half without the internet
and half with the internet.
You know what I mean?
So like this will never be again.
Like when I tell my kids that like I didn't have internet
or I didn't have a cell phone when I was like growing up,
they'd be like, dad, you're a fucking dinosaur.
Yeah, for real.
Yeah.
That is nuts.
But what I was trying to get to was just this starting this week,
YouTube is phasing out monetization on kids content.
They gave them like four months saying,
okay, we're gonna, because there's such a huge part of YouTube relies on this.
They've made a huge announcement that in four months from now,
they're going to stop this.
So now all these people, like people have to stop,
have to find something else to do.
No, they don't.
It's crazy, dude.
No, they don't.
What do you mean they don't?
Because they can do advertorials.
Because they can put integrated like advertisements into their videos.
You know, like product placement.
Yeah.
Like that's the most common way that people refer to it as like product placement.
That's true, but that's a huge loss of revenue.
Just straight up Google ad revenue.
Yeah, but they have enough views that they can demand like huge amounts.
They still have the attention.
Yeah, as long as you have the attention, then you can still sell it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, that's true.
I didn't think about that.
And then if like it's a really big deal, there's lots of ways around it.
They can start, they can start getting people to subscribe on an email
and start siphoning them off to like another platform where they're gonna run ads on them.
So, lots of different ways to market.
Siphoning off their subscribers to sign up for an email list?
Yeah, be like, we're gonna do exclusive content,
but we're only gonna be doing it on our own website from now on.
So subscribe to our email list and we'll let you know what it launches.
And then when it launches, you have a list of like two million people.
And you email them every time you come out with a new video.
And now they're not going to YouTube anymore.
They're only going to your website and then you're running shitloads of ads
all over your website and doing the fuck that you want with it.
So there's lots of ways around whatever platform, you know what I mean?
The real thing is the attention.
Like if you have the attention and you can capture that
and you have the relationship with the audience, you can put them wherever you want.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
What I just read today, Dave Chappelle's new, Dave Chappelle said that
strippers are like the street version of Google.
Strippers are the street version of what?
I don't understand.
Yeah, you got to break that down.
I don't know about that.
I think he meant like strippers basically know a lot about a lot of a lot of shit.
You can ask a scoop on everything.
They got the scoop on everything.
They got the low down about a lot of shit.
You fucking get a lapditch from a stripper.
You can ask her about this, that and the third.
Where you want to go to eat, where you need to buy some weed at?
Where you want to get?
Where you want to score some drugs?
Where you want to do anything?
What's the closest gas stations?
Strippers, no.
They know.
Is Wawa still open?
Dude, Dave Chappelle is...
That new stand up is pretty good.
It is amazing.
Yeah, but they were just saying that how all these big news platforms like
Vice and Vox were crushing him, saying don't watch Dave Chappelle's new...
They were.
They said, I don't know, they said he like...
Don't watch it.
It's terrible.
Because he's kind of like controversial, I guess.
He talks about gay people and you know,
the LGBT and stuff like that.
Yeah, so these are like people like Vice who were super, super left-wing.
Super left-wing media companies are like saying,
don't watch Dave Chappelle's new thing.
Even Rotten Tomatoes had a zero percent.
Like you don't need to watch this.
Rotten Tomatoes gave it a zero percent where it was just people that worked
for Rotten Tomatoes that were hired to rate it.
They gave it a zero percent.
Did you watch it?
I didn't watch it.
I'm going to watch it.
Did you watch it?
Yeah, I watched it.
What'd you think?
I thought it was good.
Yeah, he does like, you know,
he crosses the line between like offending people and in its comedy.
But I thought it was good.
I mean, you know, anybody that goes up there and just talks
at how they think it, I think is admirable.
Yeah, I think Dave Chappelle, like it's hard because we live in this
this time right now where it's like a hypersensitive society.
And Dave Chappelle is like one of the few people that somehow is able
to talk about, you know, hard stuff like this.
And like that's the beauty of comedy.
Like the beauty of comedy is like the darkness of like being human
brought out into the light.
And like the best comics like have to talk about that type of stuff.
Oh, yeah.
And like the best thing is like, I mean, it's hard like for me to say anything
because I have had so much, you know, growing out like I'm a white dude in America.
You know, like I have nothing to say.
White privilege, Clayton.
Right. Some people will be like, you know, nothing.
You've never suffered about anything.
And so it's hard for me to say anything, but I mean, one of the
beautiful things about comedy is like being vulnerable and like bringing
out like bad shit and like talking about it and laughing about it.
Like that is comedy at its core.
And it's a beautiful thing for everyone.
If you can do that, like even addresses specifically in a stand-up special.
You said he had a trans woman coming to his his gigs and he was going
to make a bunch of trans jokes.
And he was like, she laughed harder than any fucking person that was there.
He has specifically addressed that.
And like, I think that's like one of the beautiful things about comedy, you know?
So definitely.
If you if you can participate in that, or if you just want to think
about what you don't want, instead of what you want, you can fucking go have
a terrible life, go have a terrible time.
A little hole, lock yourself in a room and fucking feel terrible all the time.
So whatever you want to do with your life.
It's up to you.
Move to Columbia.
So what's next for Clayton in the hall?
What's, what's, what's, what's on the horizon?
Oh man, we got so, so many cool things happening, man.
I mean, like I one of the coolest things that I've been working on is there's
so many different parts about growing a company and it requires so many
different skills at every stage, right?
And, you know, just like I really focused on that kind of what's
limiting me at that time was my, my inner person, you know, and I had
a big breakthrough then.
Well, I need another big breakthrough.
I mean, we come, we come to a new point because you have to do, you have
to have a totally new skill sets at different times.
And then at that time, I just need to change myself.
Like I need to change my schedule.
I need to change what I worked on during the day.
I need to change my mentality.
Now we're at a point where we have to manage like we have 45 people in office.
So now I have to figure out how to organize this structure here and manage
people and people want different things now.
So now instead of focusing on just making the company, like marketing it better,
I got to focus on giving people like a career path, you know, and encouraging
them and showing them these good mentality and then, you know, creating
opportunities for them.
And then at the same time, serving our customers at a higher level.
So expanding our products and services.
It's a really complicated thing.
It requires a whole new mindset.
So that's kind of stuff that I'm working on.
Okay.
Yeah.
Cool, dude.
Yeah, man.
Self-improvement.
Yeah, for sure.
I love it.
Yeah.
Cool, dude.
Well, that was a good podcast.
All right.
Thanks for having me.
Let's wrap it up.
Let's go out some more white clothes.
Thank you.
Blackout!
Thanks for sharing your knowledge and your, uh, and all your wisdom.
Yeah, thanks for having me, bro.
It's been great.
Sweet.
Thanks, dude.
All right.
Peace, guys.
Thanks, bro.
