We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
Merry Christmas, Matt Cox.
How do I look?
It's Christmas Eve.
What's this fucking- this is no good at all.
We're live on Christmas Eve with Matthew B. Cox.
This is a baby beard.
This is not a good beard.
How's it going, Matt?
Thanks for joining the show on Christmas Eve.
That's like a bad Santa beard.
It is.
That was a great one.
That was great.
That movie's hilarious.
Awesome.
Are you fine?
Are you better now?
Did you officially recover from corona?
Yes.
Coronavirus.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
How are you feeling?
How was it?
It was- are you wearing your headphones this time?
Oh, shit.
Oh, yeah, I forgot to wear headphones.
Okay.
Headphones are good.
Where are your headphones?
Oh, you've got them on.
Never mind.
Alright, forget it.
Don't listen to me.
Jesus.
Alright.
How was your corona experience, Matt?
Oh, wow.
That's so weird.
Now we're talking.
How- corona?
Yeah, how did you get corona?
Last time, give me the skinny on it.
I had it bad, too.
Really?
I listened up until I got it.
I was like, I've had a cold before.
I'll be fine.
So what?
It's the flu.
What's the big deal?
Bro, I was down two weeks.
Two weeks.
Damn.
I was sick for- what happened was- what happened was- I got- one day I started having a little
bit of a cough.
No big deal.
My- my girlfriend came over at that, like, she came over that night.
Okay, no big deal.
She comes over.
We go out.
We hang out.
We go to bed.
The next morning, I woke up and I was- I was done.
Like, I mean, I- I literally in the middle of the night, I woke up and I went and checked
the thermostat because I thought, you know, it's a new apartment.
Yeah.
Were you getting the sweats and stuff?
Yeah, I started sweating.
And what I thought happened was, I thought the thermostat might have- might have raised
itself up because you know how they'll do that sometimes, they haven't- and I don't
know, it's just a brand new apartment.
Maybe it automatically does it.
I go and I check and it said it was like 72.
I was like, that's crazy.
It's not working.
I hit it all the way down like 68, got back in bed.
Next morning when I wake up, I'm like, I woke up and I go, Jess, Jess, and she's like,
what?
What's up?
And I go, I'm so hot.
I said, are you hot?
And she goes, I'm freezing.
Oh, no.
And my whole body was achy and I thought, well, how could I be achy?
I feel like this.
Like, I didn't work out hard or anything.
How am I so fucked up?
Listen, I couldn't get out of bed.
I mean, I like crawled out of bed and I was like, I'm so- I'm in so much pain.
I was sweating.
And then I laid back down and was like, baby, I was like, cause we were supposed to go to
church.
And I go, baby, I don't- I don't think-
Church.
I knew he was gonna-
Matt Cox goes to church.
I knew he was gonna go to church.
Oh, fuck.
I knew.
Repent.
That sounds like a movie.
Repent.
That sounds like a movie.
Ernest goes to church.
Listen, my girlfriend goes to church and I want to go to church cause I want to, you know,
we can do that together.
And she likes that.
And if it's important to her, then it's important to me.
God bless you.
Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ.
Oh my God.
My loading savior.
Hey, pour me some of that Baileys in here.
Ooh, we got fucking Baileys on the podcast today, bitch.
So anyway-
So what?
You're all fucked up.
What, do you wake up and go to the doctor or are you-
No, I just-
No, I laid in bed for like an hour or so and she was like, what's wrong with you?
How do you feel?
Like, what are your- and so as we slowly started talking, she was like-
Like, you've got all the symptoms of COVID.
Of COVID.
She was everything.
Who?
Your girl said that?
Yeah.
And we looked it up and we read them off and I had a bunch of them.
And then, look, I laid in bed, we laid in bed all day, slept all day.
And then she left the next, either that night or the next morning.
And then, yeah, man, then the next day, I couldn't get out of bed the next day.
And then I'd say on, oh no, no, you know what happened?
That Monday, right then, that next day, that was Sunday, so then on Monday morning, I
went straight, got tested, bam, it said COVID.
So I was like, fuck.
How long did you have to wait in line for?
Like 45 minutes, maybe an hour.
God damn.
Well, they just tested you right through your car.
And it was a line too.
Like a drive-thru?
No, everybody says that.
This wasn't.
This was in Bradenton.
I had to get out.
I just stand in line.
I'm hacking and coughing.
Everybody else is there to do it for work.
Like they're all like, oh, I got to get tested for work and I'm sitting there hot and sweating
one minute.
And then the next minute, I'm like, fuck, it's cold, I should have brought a jacket.
And it was perfect.
It was a great day.
It was like 70 degrees.
And guys, people are looking at me and then this one woman's looking at me and she's like,
how do you feel?
I was like, I feel horrible.
And she had already had it.
And she came back because she had blisters or something on the bottoms of her feet.
Fuck.
Oh, she was telling me, she said, oh yeah, some people are getting like their toes are
turning red.
And she's, there's all kinds of weird new symptoms.
Anyway, but she was like, yeah, you're probably, you might have a hard time.
And I was like, I run like four miles a day.
I'm going to be good.
I'll be over this in a couple of days.
So when they, when they tested you positive, wrong, way wrong about that.
What did the nurses there say to you once you were positive?
Have you been tested?
Yeah.
So I have been, I'm negative.
My wife actually just recently got tested too.
She's negative.
But they had like a van set.
Did they have, did you go stand in line?
I had to go wait in line.
Did you see the, with the guys, the gloves were like has mad?
No.
Okay.
Listen.
So this thing, I wait in line after I get in line.
The first thing you have to do is you go to like these military, like these police guys,
right?
Like, but there's like the military and they, you show them your ID, you get a kit, then
you go, then this guy authenticates the kit.
Then you walk up this, the stairs like fucking to forever.
So I go up there.
They had two plexi, like whatever glass or plexi glass windows with these people that
have like, like, you know, like gloves, like they're, they're standing behind it and they
have gloves and they're like, okay, take the kit.
Okay.
They take the kit.
They do the whole thing.
They, okay.
They do the whole thing.
And then they drop it in the box and they say, okay, you'll be someone will test somebody.
Well, you'll be contacted or emailed or in the next, you know, within 20 minutes.
And by the time I got back to my car, I'd already gotten like 10 minutes later, five
minutes later.
I was so messed up.
I walked right by my car and walked all the way to the wrong parking lot.
God damn.
Got there and was like, where did I park?
Where did I park?
And I was like, you idiot.
You parked right next to the line.
I'm like, oh my God.
Turned around, came all the way back and my phone went off and I checked it out and boom,
it said, you know, positive.
When you were positive, did the nurses tell you anything like what you should do?
I got a phone call from somebody with the Hillsborough County CDC, like, or whatever
you want to call it.
The county CDC type thing.
It was a county down there.
Well, okay.
Well, it wasn't the CDC, but whatever it was, it was like the county CDC type situation.
And she called and she's like, okay, how do you feel?
How would this?
I was like, oh, this and this and this and she just told me, look, you know, she was
like, you know, take zinc, take, you know, vitamin D, vitamin C, sleep as much as you
can, lay in bed, drink lots of water.
You know, all the stuff you're supposed to say your mom would say, yeah.
Eat some chicken noodle soup.
Yeah.
You'll be all right.
So what'd you do?
You're healthy.
You shook it off in like, what, 48 hours?
No, it's like, it's like two weeks later.
Two weeks?
God damn.
Here's the thing.
You know how everybody talks about like, oh, I keep, you can't, first of all, I couldn't
taste anything.
And that had already, that had already happened.
I didn't realize it till I started looking, looking back like and thinking, I told you
guys about getting like a flat tire, right?
No.
Anyway, I had gotten a flat tire and I actually, my cars are cheap.
They don't even have a, you don't even have a spare tire.
So, and this was during the tropical storm thing.
So anyway, when I got out of the car and I had to take the big platform thing in
the back to try and remove the tire that isn't actually there, it's actually like
a big can of fix a flat.
I got it, it got all wet.
So then my car smelled like mildew.
Jess had said your car smells like mildew.
Do you smell that?
And I went, no.
And she goes, you don't smell that?
And I was like, no.
And that was during the day.
Remember, it wasn't till the next day that I realized I was sick.
So it was already happening.
I couldn't smell anything.
I realized that the next day cause I went, when I went home, like I went to,
I took a shower after the thing and I sprayed cologne on and I was like,
I can't smell this at all.
Like usually you, it's overwhelming when you've heard, right?
Nothing.
So I started realizing, whoa, I got some problems.
So then I was sick for a while.
Like I was in bed for two or three days.
Then I was so bored.
Look, by the way, by this point, Jess got sick.
I was going to ask if she gets sick too.
Yeah.
She got sick cause we couldn't have been more close that night.
Fuck.
So does she actually get tested or she just likes chalk it up to the game?
I'm, I got COVID too.
Cause I'm next to McDonald's.
She went and got checked.
She went and got checked and she works at a, at a, like a dairy plant.
So she can't, she got, she got tested and then dairy plant.
Fuck.
Yeah.
So she sounds gnarly.
So she got tested and they won't let you, she obviously, she can't work there.
Yeah.
So couldn't go to school, came and stayed with me for a couple of days and
then by like day, day two or something like that.
Like the second or third day, she goes, listen, I can't lay in bed anymore.
She goes, I'm going to, I'm going to go fishing.
And I went, I, I'm a go.
And she was like, yeah.
Sick, sweating, tired, achy.
She goes fishing.
What kind of fishing does she do?
Fishing.
I don't know anything about fishing.
She doesn't tell you where she goes fishing.
She sends me pictures of fish and her.
That's all you know.
Goldfish.
What kind of fish?
I don't know.
You got a picture on your phone?
I got a bunch of pictures.
I want to see what kind of fish she's catching.
I don't know what kind of fish they are.
You, I mean, if you show me the picture, I could probably figure it out.
Jokes nose.
It's a goddamn angler.
I'm a goddamn fish man.
You see those tridents over there in the corner?
You ever watch the deck hands?
Nobody watches deck hands.
Hmm.
Um, I got, wait, I got bad pictures in here.
Is she fishing for grouper?
Is she getting tilapia in the lakes?
Oh, I got a, okay.
She's fishing for trouser snake.
Yeah, she is.
What the hell is that, Jones?
It's a grouper.
That's not a, I don't know what the fuck.
That's not a fish.
That looks like a fucking, he almost said that's not a fish.
That looks like a bass.
It does look like a bass.
That's a fucking bass, bro.
She's fishing in.
Bass fishing?
She's fishing in the lakes.
Yeah.
Wow.
I don't know.
I guess.
Land, oh, you live in Lando Lakes.
That makes sense.
No, I don't, we don't, this is, this is down by, um, uh, Bradenton.
There's tons of little play, you know, out there.
It's cow pattern.
She's fishing for trouser trout.
So she goes off, she goes fishing, right?
You know what she did the next day?
Actually, it was the same day.
She waited, she didn't fish the first day.
The first day she got home and her dad said,
Hey, if she was going to go fishing,
he's like, well, if you got the day off,
he said, I got all the stuff to fix the brakes on my car.
If you want to fix them.
And she was like, yeah, I'll fix them.
So she spent all day replacing her dad's brakes.
Damn, she didn't replace brakes?
Bro, listen, I told you when my, my alternator went bad and I was like, look,
let's just, this bitch is rugged, bro.
Like, let's just bring in the best case scenario for Matt.
You know, Matt ain't getting those hands dirty.
Look at those perfectly manicured fingernails.
It was horrible.
When my, when my, my car stopped, she gets out with the jumper cables and gives,
puts them on hers and gives them to me.
And I looked at them and I went, um, what do I do?
So I was like, which one's positive?
And she looked at me.
She goes, Oh Jesus, God, I want, she was giving the, boom.
She put them on.
She just let it run.
Let's charge the battery.
I'm like, well, should we drive started?
Let's go.
And she's like, let it charge.
We don't know what's wrong.
She goes, you got to get home.
I said, no, let's go to the garage across the street.
I'm just going to park it there so they can fix it.
And she goes, it's your alternator.
She goes, it's three bolts.
I'll fix it this weekend.
And I went, I can't, I can't.
And I remember thinking, I can't tell anybody this story.
It's the first thing you can do.
But anyway, I dropped it off and she's like, you know, I'll just go back and it's
not a big deal.
I was like, I cannot let you, there's no way.
So yeah, she's a, she's a gangster.
So she fixed her dad's breaks to one day.
The next day she went fishing.
Next day she came back.
She was over it in three days.
I was down for two weeks.
Oh my God.
I couldn't breathe.
It was so bad.
Remember I told you I built that thing, the wall?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
In your studio.
In my studio.
So I built this two walls, but I built, I bought all the wood for one.
Wow.
When I went to Home Depot, got the wood, came back, unloaded the wood.
I had to lay down and sleep, go to sleep for like an hour.
Then the next day I cut the wood, like I could get up, cut the wood.
And it wasn't that I couldn't breathe.
It was that I was immediately felt like I'd just gotten off of, like I just run
like five miles.
Like I was just like, at one point you finally stand up and you're just like,
I haven't done anything.
I've been active for barely active for five minutes.
Yeah.
And I'm like, but I didn't feel like I couldn't breathe.
Do you need nausea?
Do you throw up at all?
I haven't thrown up since 1992.
Really?
Yeah.
And that was only because I was poisoned.
You were poisoned.
I was poisoned.
I smoked a cigar and I didn't spit out the saliva.
Thank you, cigar.
No, thank you.
Which I apparently you have to do.
Like I was talking to my cousin Nate and I said, bro, I don't have any vices.
And I was like, I need a vice.
I don't drink.
I don't smoke.
I don't do anything.
I need a vice.
And he goes, what about cigars?
How about mortgage fraud?
That wasn't, that was, that was later.
So he, I smoke a cigar throughout the night as we were playing putt-butt golf.
And by the 18th hole, I was puking my fucking guts out, puked for life.
You're probably inhaling it.
Not just that.
I'm swallowing all the saliva.
He can't do all that.
No, he kept spitting or he would put it out.
Yeah.
And I was, and he knew what he was doing.
He knew he was getting me sick.
Yeah.
To beat you in golf.
No, just in general, just to let me know.
You don't, you don't need to be doing this.
It's a bad idea.
Yeah.
You don't need a vice.
No.
He's neat snipped.
You just bite the end off, bro.
There's a little thing.
You swish your sweets.
Just bite the end off.
Yeah.
Like a blunt wrap.
So that was it.
I was down.
So two fucking weeks, two weeks.
And then, then for the next week, I couldn't work out.
I just started working out a couple of days ago.
Hmm.
Literally the first fucks you up.
First day, I did five, I did five, five minutes.
Next day, I did nine today.
Yesterday, I did 15 minutes.
I'm trying to build on the elliptical.
Yeah.
I'm trying to build up to 30 minutes, but I'm still tired.
So I'm exhausted.
Hmm.
Well, I'm glad you survived.
I gained.
Yeah.
Thank God.
Did you think you were going to get, you were going to die?
I gained like eight pounds.
I gained like eight pounds.
I weigh 175 right now.
Did it ever cross your mind?
You're like, I'm going to die.
No, there was only, there was only one day when I was laying there in bed like
after a week or so.
And I remember thinking, bro, if you don't start feeling better, you may end up
in the hospital.
Like this, this isn't normal.
You're going on like day 10, day 11, you're still sweating.
You still, I'm still sweating.
I'm still having, you know, I'm still have a fever going up and down.
I thought, nah, bro, you, you, you, you can't go this long.
It's, you're going to end up, you could fucking die.
Next thing you know, I'm sitting there.
I'm not a gangster anymore.
I'm like, you're an old man, your girlfriend's already okay.
You know, what the hell?
I was horrible.
That guy, Ben, I used to do the videos with, he got fucked.
He was in the hospital with like pneumonia and shit.
He survived.
If he survived, anybody can fucking survive.
So all those people that died.
Oh, wow.
He got some scratch off.
Merry Christmas.
These are $10 holiday cash blowouts.
Nice.
These are the shit.
My wife won like, if you get rich, 200 bucks on the, one of these the other day.
You get rich off that.
Don't forget about me.
No, I, I'm not going to Danny yet.
Yeah.
He'll be like, I didn't, I didn't hit nothing.
Matt Cox, don't lie to the people out there.
I'm giving you more money than anybody else has ever.
Yeah.
Now, more than Bank of America.
All right.
What are we doing with, what are we doing about?
Are we going to do these?
No.
What do you want to do with those?
What are those?
No, I don't know.
What the fuck are those?
You bringing some Christmas presents?
Christmas?
Christmas?
You know what we could do?
Presents?
Okay.
So the first people that, the first emails that I get that say in the, in the, um, in the subject that say, you know, watch, right?
The, whatever, the first four that, that send me an email to my email address and subscribe to my channel, Matt Cox and Inside True Crime.
Um, and like and comment on all the videos, like and comment on all the videos.
So the first four people that email me, we can put the email in your description, right?
It's like inside true crime.
Just tell them the email.
It's inside, it's inside true crime, um, at gmail.com, right?
Is that a guess?
I don't know.
But it is.
It's at gmail.com.
Yeah, at gmail.com.
Sounds good.
Yeah.
Inside true crime.
At aworld.com.
Right.
At bankofamerica.net.
So anyway, these are watches, but you got to open one.
Let's see one of those fucking things.
The watches are cool, bro.
They're like heavy.
Come on, let's see them.
Like they're, they're, that's what I liked about when I, when the guys, is this for us?
Is this a gift for us?
No, it's not.
It's a Rolex?
Absolutely not.
No, it's a, they're called, no, they're called Stannage and it's from their guys in the UK.
But what I like is that they're like heavy.
Like they're nice watches.
I've been wearing this thing for three months now.
Looks like an AVA.
It's like a watch a pilot would wear.
They're pretty cool, bro.
And they're heavy.
They're made of like stainless steel.
They're, they're good watches.
Pretty fancy.
It's not my style, but it's fancy.
It's nice.
It's nice.
Yeah.
They come with like ownership papers.
Oh, you got the, you got the papers.
What are the, what do these things cost retail?
Um, I don't know.
They're like 3, 400 bucks.
No, wait, wait.
No, no, no.
No, they're like 500 bucks because that's, it's like, they're like 350.
Um, euros.
That's like almost 500 bucks.
Oh my goodness.
Damn.
Well, it's like 450, 450.
Nice.
And you're just going to give these away to the first people that
well, cause he sent them to me and he told me to give them away cause
he was just like, say, I like your channel.
They got to do, they got to do something.
It can't be just the first person that emails you.
They got it.
Well, I just said, what do you want to do?
What do you, what do you, I mean, you got to subscribe to all your shit.
And, uh, yeah, proves on the screenshot to Matt Cox.
The first four people that order a book are getting a watch with the book.
So now it's just, now it's just confusing.
I don't, I, yeah.
What, I mean, you're killing me, but I don't know.
Now we don't know what the fuck.
I don't know what's going on.
Somebody's just trying to get you some more money.
Something.
I mean, I appreciate it.
It's Christmas.
I'm just, all right.
Fuck it.
Send it to the first four.
Jamocs that fucking send an email.
What is it?
I don't know.
Subject watch and Matt'll pick some random emails, four of them.
No, I'll pick the first four.
The first four?
First four.
That's good.
I mean, the first four that say watch in them.
That's good enough.
It's called standage and you can go online.
He's got a website.
It's super cool, man.
I think they're cool.
Yeah.
We got new concrete shirts too.
You can buy and you win nothing.
You just buy it and you can rep concrete or not limited.
There's only a couple.
There's no, uh, there's no backhanded scam there.
It's just, you can buy it or not buy it.
No giveaways, no games, no games, no gimmicks, no giveaways.
First person that sends me their social security number.
I'm surprised you didn't jump on that.
The first four socials to come through.
Oh, shit.
Oh, I want to label this video, this episode story time with Matthew B.
Cox.
Have you been getting lots of people hitting you up about, um, about scams
and yes, I told me over dinner the other night.
Yes, I have told me a couple of funny stories.
They try to get you to teach them how to do it.
I was pretty fucking stunned.
I'm not going to lie.
You know, it's funny because like I, when it first happened, like I didn't say
anything.
I just didn't think it was a big deal.
It wasn't until recently I started mentioning it to people like after
Boziak, the thing with John Boziak had told me about the guy.
I wish I'll tell, I'll tell in a minute when he told me that I was like, oh,
yeah, that's happened to me a bunch of times.
And he was like, really?
I was like, yeah, this and this.
So then I ended up telling you and I've told other people and that people
were like, are you serious?
I'm like, yeah.
You know, I, to me, it's like, what?
Yeah, let's just normal.
I'm like, to me, all this is so bizarre.
Nothing stands out anymore.
You're like a legitimate internet celebrity now.
Is it slightly flattering that they're looking to you for the advice?
Well, a little bit.
How many people email you?
It's got to feel a little good.
It's kind of a little sickness.
How many people reach out to you on a daily basis from this podcast?
Probably.
I mean, there was a time it was, no, you know, it's, it's pretty,
this part's pretty consistent.
It's probably, probably maybe three to 10 or 15, 10 people a day.
Wow.
Three to 10.
That could be five, could be.
That are trying to get you to.
No, no, no, not that.
No, no, no.
No, what, what, no.
I want to say shame, but I'm going to say hat rack.
What hat rack is trying to say is, is that basically supreme hat rack.
So like, like a year ago when I did that, the video that the first video was
that episode, the first podcast.
Yeah.
The first pot.
What did I say?
What did I just say?
Video.
Sorry.
A podcast, a first podcast.
You know about the first pod, the first episode that you ever did on concrete?
Yes.
Episode 40.
The one about your personal story.
Were you talking about your mortgage fraud adventures?
Right.
Where it all started.
Right.
So that one did like super good.
And then within weeks of that, I started getting these emails, right?
Oh, you know, constantly getting emails.
And after probably a month or so, maybe a month or two, not maybe a month or so,
whatever it doesn't matter.
The point is eventually guys started reaching out to me saying, you know,
bro, if I could just talk to you, you know, I just like to talk to you and maybe
I'll buy you dinner, you know, um, and I was like, just, I don't understand.
And by that point, people were starting like, I think I released my book and guys
were saying, Hey, can you, can I meet you and sign and have you sign the book?
And I was like, um, I thought that was a little bit weird.
Like the first three or four guys that did that.
I thought and or wanted to just meet me and buy me lunch.
I thought that's really strange.
And I remember going to, um, going to my friend Stacy and saying, look, that this
is weird.
You know what I mean?
This is like, why would this guy, these two guys called me up.
They want to meet me.
They, they, they're in Tampa.
They're going to drive over here.
We're going to meet.
They want to buy me a lunch and just talk to me.
That's weird, right?
And, and she's like, I don't know.
You know, people like you.
You're likable.
I'm like, no, I'm not.
I'm kind of a dickhead.
People really don't like me.
She's like, no, you're, you have a nice, you, people do like you.
So we went back and forth and then literally a couple of days later, another
guy came in and then like a week later, another one.
I was like, this is insane.
These guys all want to meet me.
They want to mail me a book.
They want to do this.
And, and she goes, listen, she said, think of it like this.
She's, I know you think it's strange.
She was thinking about like this.
She said, remember that, that guy, you sent me all those videos and said,
I should watch some of these.
And I was like, and I go, yeah, yeah, Gary V.
She was right.
Gary V.
I said, right.
She goes, if you could call up Gary V and take him to lunch, she goes, or you
were going to go to lunch with him.
She goes, would you?
And I went, of course, he's Gary V.
He's like, awesome.
I, I love Gary V.
And she was like, she's like, why?
He's weird, bro.
I knew you were going to say that anybody who you'd say that about everybody.
But here's the great thing about Gary V.
Is that, and she was like, why do you feel like that?
I said, because it's like, and this is, I already told her that I said, it's like
the stuff that he's saying is things that I internally think in my head all the
time, but I've never said, never told anybody.
Like the way I feel, he's verbalized things that I felt.
And so I'd feel there's like a connection there, not in a creepy way, just like
it's like, wow, bro, I can't believe you said that because that's how I feel.
So, and she goes, that's how these guys feel.
And so then I stopped thinking it was weird.
And I just started thinking, you know what?
She goes, and you'd be, she was in a year ago when you were laying in your bunk
bed, she goes, you'd have been thrilled to have someone buy you lunch.
And I was like, she's absolutely right.
It was like, it was like, you know, you don't drop, drop the weird.
Oh, this is weird.
No, you should be thankful.
You should be, it's, you should be gracious.
And, you know, and it's, it's, it's a good thing.
You're, I should be thrilled by it.
I should be, you know, it's, it's, it's great.
So I, um, so I started going, I went in the first two couple guys I met.
They, they happened to both be in real estate and we just sat there and talked
about real estate.
It was great.
Next guy signed a book, took a picture with them, talked to him.
He texts me every once in a while.
That happened over and over again.
And then I started getting the guys that were, can I just talk to you on the phone?
Can I meet you?
And I was like, sure, what's up?
Like I wanted to drive in for Orlando.
I was like, yeah, uh, what's up?
So I, he texts me and he was like, yeah, bro, can I call you?
And I was like, yeah, called up and I was like, yeah, what's up?
And I said, and he's like, yeah, bro, man, you, you know, you're a legend.
You're this or that.
I was just like, yeah, I was a little over the top.
I was like, okay, I'm not a legend.
I'm, I'm a douchebag that just got out of prison, federal prison.
I can barely pay my bills, but that's fine.
And I was like, okay, okay.
Yeah.
All right, bro.
That's, uh, you said that enough.
You know, he's like set it over and over again.
And he's like, bro, if you know, like, if you could just put me on the game.
I was like, oh, that went south real fast.
Yeah.
Uh, what game is that?
And he's like, you know, the whole real estate gang, like, you know, and I was
like, oh, okay.
I was like, yeah, you know, I don't really, not really supposed to be.
I really can't do real estate.
I kind of talked to you about it, but he's like, no, you know, because
that, that fraud shit you done, like that's some bad shit.
Like right now I just do, I do some credit cards and stuff.
You know what I'm saying?
Like little stuff, little credit card here, little credit card here.
You know, I get credit cards and I do this and I do that.
And my buddies and I was like, and then he's like, but you know, you're
on that next level shit.
I know you can bring my game.
I was like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Yeah, bro, you got the wrong guy.
Now I'm like, okay.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.
He's like talking about how he's making a couple grand here, a couple
grand there, but I can get him in that million dollar.
I was like, yeah, I'm sorry.
Uh, I, I, I appreciate you calling back pedaling.
He's like, no, I'm going to come down.
I'll break you off too.
I'm like, uh, absolutely not.
Now we're definitely not meeting.
Yeah.
And I was like, no, no, I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
Absolutely not.
No, no, no.
And I, I hung up the phone.
And you know, cause these guys don't understand like this guy might
have done some state time for, I think he had said he did state time
for drugs or something like that.
It was like, you know, so first of all, I can't, I'm not even supposed
to talk to you and I'm saying I like learning that during the conversation.
So we start back, I start back pedaling.
I finally get off the phone with him and I thought, wow, that's weird,
but I didn't think anything of it.
Next thing I know, maybe a week later, I get another guy.
He's same thing on the phone.
Can I just talk to you for a little bit?
I just want to talk to you, you know, I'll pay you for your time.
You don't have to pay me for my time.
Just what is it?
What's up?
He's doing the tax game, you know, that they call it the drop.
No, what's that?
It's where you get someone's tax, where you get their social security,
you get their personal information and you file taxes for them before
they can file.
So then they go to file on their job at Walmart.
You've already filed, you've already got the card, you've already got the dump
has been or the direct deposit onto a card and you've already removed
five or $6,000 of their tax return.
And then when they go to file, they go, you've already filed taxes.
And that's it.
And then of course you say, hey, this is fraud, blah, blah, blah.
Eventually you get your money back, but it's a hell of a, it's a, it's these
people have to go through hell to try and get their stuff back.
And so yeah, that fraud, that's a, that's a huge fraud.
Huge.
There's tons of guys in prison for that.
The problem is it's drying up.
So it's almost impossible.
It's not almost impossible, but it's much, much more difficult.
So you're getting rid of, so the average douchebag that was doing it can't
really do it.
Now it's gotten way more sophisticated.
There's way more security procedures involved in the IRS is catching them
left and right, where before you'd file 10 of them, nine of them went through.
Now you're filing 20 of them and one of them is going through, you know?
So this guy's like, yeah, man, I was doing the drop.
You know what that is?
That's, that's like, yeah, I know what the drop is.
You know, it's like, why are you calling me here?
Why are you telling me this?
Like, you know, you know, cause like I can get the IDs.
I'm like, there's no good place at this point that this conversation's going.
Yeah.
So I'm going to get off the phone.
No, I love it when they think they can talk me into it.
Yeah.
I wouldn't say nothing.
Like I wouldn't say you were involved.
Stop, bro.
Stop, stop.
It's like, hang on the phone.
So I'm not going to say all the things that I said to these guys cause it's
really the same thing I said to the best one, which I'll tell you about.
Yeah.
So I keep getting these guys.
I actually had one guy come went to lunch with them halfway through lunch.
He actually mentions, you know, this and that, this and that.
I was like, no.
Yeah.
I said, I know, you know, that's an issue.
He never really pushed the issue.
I was like, yeah, I know.
I get a lot of these guys that say this is kind of like, he was kind of just
trying to feel me out.
He never really said this is why a lot of people just are desperate for money.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
This is, this is a thing.
So I'm going to tell, I'll tell you the one about New York cause he's not
desperate for money.
Right.
Right.
Well, I guess what I'm saying, what I'm saying is that like the, I think you
get like people want fast, you get so much shit on the internet because so many
people just like, that's why it's so easy for people on YouTube to get so big
real quick.
These kind of like either have a lot of money or pretend like they have a lot
of money and they'll just blow up.
All you got to do is have like a fucking pretend like you own a bunch of shit
or drive a really nice car or talk about how to make money and you automatically
get a bunch of desperate poor people or people who are struggling that are
going to follow you because there's nothing anybody wants more than money.
I've, I've actually, it's funny because I've actually had a couple of people
contact me who were basically saying like they wanted to try and set up a
channel with me where basically I'd be like a guru and it was like, they want
to turn you into a guru and I'm like, I'm not going to do that.
You're going to be a fucking fake guru.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I did a whole podcast about that with this dude coffee zilla.
It's hilarious.
Yeah.
I'm not, I, yeah.
I, I, I saw part, I saw like half of that, that great.
It was, it was, um, it was on, uh, Skype, right?
Yeah.
It was on, yeah.
It was on zoom.
Yeah.
Right.
So, um, yeah, I'm not, I'm not doing that.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, no, it's like, you know, and, you know, yeah, we can get you in front
of a Lamborghini.
We can use it.
What are you talking about?
I'm a federal probation.
What do you think my probation officer?
You're going to say, I'm climbing out of a Lamborghini.
I can already see the thumbnails.
Oh yeah.
Ty Lopez, Matt Cox.
Imagine him like standing in front of like reading a book and sitting
on a Lamborghini face.
Why don't you do it?
What?
I'm like, yeah, I'm not doing that.
I'm not doing it because I'm not, I'm not going to.
You can, you can have your own course.
This is horrible.
Imagine that was a big thing.
It was the course.
The big thing was the course.
Like, you don't understand the course and you can do this.
And it's like, I don't, I mean, you know, and it's all like the money,
the money, the money.
Yeah.
But you understand what I want to do is I want to do the true crime.
I want to get these stories made.
And the whole thing is, it's like, look, if it was about money, then
I could go do something for money.
I'd have done that a year ago.
Yeah.
I'm on a course of action.
I'm sticking with that course of action.
I can always go work in real estate or sell cars or work for FedEx
or do something.
If I wanted to just have a decent job and, you know, make a little
bit of money, or if I wanted to be a fake guru, I can always do that.
Yeah.
I'm doing this now.
No, we'll take care of this.
Stop, bro.
Stop, stop, stop.
Not only, I mean, it's bad enough to be a fake guru, but then
just to, to be like partners with a bunch of people who are creating
your fake guru persona and be, and be business partners with those
kind of people, that's recipe for fucking disaster.
A lot of people do.
Yeah.
I mean, they're making crazy money.
Yeah, I know.
But that's what I'm saying.
I could always do that if I would need it to.
They take advantage of desperate people though.
I would feel this is coming from me.
This is really going to be fucked up.
I would feel so fake.
And so, you know what I mean?
It wouldn't it feel like taking advantage of people?
No, look, I don't know problems about that.
I don't know problem.
Yeah, but you didn't take advantage of people.
You took advantage of banks.
I mean, I'm saying, I don't have a moral problem.
I have a feeling that I would feel like it was bullshit.
Yeah.
Like, look, it, like it is, right?
You know what I'm saying?
Like I'm, I'm doing something that I don't feel like is bullshit.
Like it's legitimate and it feels good as opposed to.
So, so look, so, so, so, so I got these guys that are constantly
contacting me, which is what, what, who are they?
Sell them out right here.
I don't know their name.
Come on.
Sell it.
Let's sell them out.
There's only only one guy's name.
I know.
And I'm not going to use it because I feel bad.
So I didn't even tell this like on my channel.
I did it.
I did a story or I did a, I did a vlog the other day called,
um, called scams.
Okay.
And I talk about how people are reaching out to me saying this,
but I very briefly kind of go over and I almost told the story
about this guy and then I, I stopped and I thought,
no, if he watches it and you know, I thought, I don't want to.
So, but then I thought, sorry, but then I went back and I looked
on my cell phone and I realized it's been three weeks.
This guy was texting you once or twice a week for six months.
It's been three weeks and you haven't heard from him.
It was absolutely, he was, he had been talking to me the whole
time thinking at some point, I'm coaxing this guy along and
I'm going to get him into a point where we're building up a
friendship and he's going to help me.
You're wrong about that.
Right.
Right.
And so here's what happened.
Six months or so ago, maybe even more than that, six or eight
months ago, this guy contacts me, bro, you know what?
It was before COVID.
How long was that?
Wow.
That was a year ago, March.
Right.
So it was just before then.
So we talked on the phone once, then COVID hit.
How come no one hits me up asking me to be a fake guru?
Well, this wasn't a fake guru.
This has helped me do a scam.
Oh, okay.
Never mind.
So here's what happened.
I want to be the next high Lopez.
Okay.
Well, I'll let you finish.
Let me know.
So here's what we said.
So let's say now it's up to 10 months.
I said six months.
It went six, eight.
Now they realize it was just before COVID because COVID
happened and we, we had, we, he and I had talked on the phone
a lot or a few times and it was, it was weird, right?
So it was, he wanted to talk to me.
No big deal, but like I said, I'll talk to you because you
just want to talk to you like about what though?
He just, his was basically business ideas.
Like what do you think I should do?
Like I own a piece of property and he's got like half a
million.
I'm going to go with not the exact number, but it's roughly
it's about half a million dollars in equity.
I own it's half a million in equity.
I have this business.
It's a service oriented business in Manhattan.
This guy's emailing you?
Well, it started as an email and then it was a, then we,
then I gave him my phone number cause you know, he's
sending an email.
I'm sending you get three or four emails and then I get frustrated
there and you stop getting emails cause it's like, this
isn't going anywhere.
Or you know, it's like, hey, you know, or it's like, you
know, just, just, here's my fucking phone number.
Like you're not, you're not nuts.
So just call me cause I'm painting and I can put it on
speaker and I can talk to you while I'm painting.
Um, so that's what happened.
We started talking and he was like, you know, I just have
some business ideas and I, I was wondering about real estate.
What kind of real estate things do you know, and I'll pay you.
I'll pay you for your time.
I'll pay him like, no, just, just tell me what, what do
you have to work with?
Like I'm just like, whatever, let's get this over with.
Let me see if I can help you real quick.
And if I can't and I actually, you actually want like an idea.
You know, look, and this is the thing like right now guys
are like, bro, you know, what should I do with this much
money?
It's like nothing because you might have six months to a
year before the market will most likely crash and don't go
buy a bunch of property right now.
That's going to be worth.
It's going to drop by 15 or 20 or 30%.
You know, don't do anything right now.
You know, that's like to my, my, I don't really have a plan
for your money right now, but he came to me and it wasn't that
it was, it was just before.
So I was like, well, how much do you have?
Cause I got, you could do this, you could do this.
So we start talking and then a week went by, I talked to him
again, then COVID happened, then we texted every once in a
while and then I would send him like I have a list of people
that I send when my videos come out.
I just shoot off like 30 or 40 people, right?
Like boom, boom, boom, boom, the videos like I'll post the
video.
So I said, yeah, I'm one of them.
Right.
And sometimes so then it would come down.
Then he would come back like, Hey, I just watched that,
bro.
That's a crazy story or Hey, what, you know, whatever.
He's just being supportive and he texts every once in a while.
We talk and how are you doing?
Hey, this, Hey, that, whatever.
That's cool.
This went on for 10 months.
About three weeks ago.
It's almost four weeks, three, four weeks ago.
You know, five weeks ago, he actually called me and he said,
Hey, I'm going to be down there.
My girlfriend lives in Tampa.
Never heard about a girlfriend that lives in Tampa.
Guys from New York.
The hell that when did you get a fucking girlfriend that lives
in?
That's crazy.
I never heard this.
You've been texting me forever.
I know about your mom.
I know about your dad.
I know about your all kinds of stuff, you know, and it's like,
okay, he's like, well, when would be good for you?
I'd like to come down and actually talk to you.
And, you know, I know you like coffee.
I'll get you some Starbucks or we can go to lunch or whatever.
I was like, well, I mean, when are you going to be here?
Yeah.
Well, uh, I can come down Sunday.
Oh, like, I would think that'd be, I would be secondary to when
you and your girlfriend have planned, but whatever.
I'm like, yeah, okay.
So Sunday we'll have, uh, you can come in and, you know, we'll
meet for dinner or lunch or no, no, I'm going to fly in.
I will have lunch or whatever.
There's no girlfriend, Matt.
He's coming here to see your ass.
Yeah.
Well, when he showed up, he didn't, I never saw a girlfriend.
He said there was a girlfriend.
I never saw one.
So I meet the guy.
We meet at a Starbucks.
He gets me Starbucks.
We sit down.
I say, Hey, what's, you know, what's up?
He's like, yeah, what's going on?
Well, you know, he's from New York.
You know, Yankee.
So, you know, we this and so we talked for a couple of minutes
and not five minutes in the conversation it becomes.
I wanted to meet you because I wanted to look you in the face.
Wanted you to know I was for real.
Okay.
That you, you know, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a standup guy.
I'm that guy.
I'm like, okay, okay.
And he's like, and he goes, he said, uh, this is an amount, exact amount,
but he goes, he goes, I need you to help me get, get 500,000.
It was actually 600.
I help, help me get $600,000.
And I went, what?
I mean, this is like, I've, we've never had that conversation.
He's never even alluded to it.
And I went, what, what, what do you mean?
What you want me $600,000?
And he goes, yeah, he's like, like you can, if I'll pay you upfront for you to train
me, like if it, you know, whatever we'll spend a couple of days and you can train
me on what to do to, to do that whole mortgage thing that, that you did.
And, and I'll, I'll, I'll break you off like upfront or whatever.
And I went, well, why would break me off?
Like give me like 20 grand or 50 grand or something.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I went, well, why wouldn't I just split, split the money with you?
I mean, we're going in partners.
And he goes 50, 50.
Yeah.
And he goes, he said, yeah, okay, I did, but I need the 600,000.
So yeah, how long would that take to get that kind of money?
And I went, so 1.2 million, I get half.
And I went, so if, if I was willing, so if I set up a scam to get $1.2 million, I said,
that, that, depending on how much money you have upfront, we'll take about a month.
I could do that a month.
We could have the money.
And he's like, you said this to him.
Yeah.
And he goes, he goes, he goes, right.
Oh, okay.
He's getting excited.
I said, right.
I said, so if I, if I do that and he goes, right, right.
I go, why would I fucking need you?
And he goes, what?
And I went, why would I need you?
If I was willing to get myself involved in a, in a conspiracy, why would I need you?
He goes, well, you don't ever have to go in the bank.
I go, I don't have to go in the bank now.
No, but you can, you can do a transaction right now over the, you don't, you don't
actually have to go into the closing anymore.
And I could pay someone to go in the closing.
Right.
So why would I, why do I need you?
Why would I give you half a million dollars to set up a scam that I can set up
myself and take the 1.2 million?
And he goes, yeah, but I'm saying I can do all the work, but I don't need you to
do the work.
No, but I mean, if somebody does need to go in, I could go in and I looked at him
and I went, well, I said, you don't understand.
You're just adding my name to the conspiracy once you get caught.
No, I'm not going to get caught.
And I, he goes, and I wouldn't, it doesn't matter even if I got caught.
I would never say nothing.
And I looked at him and I went, you've already got me fucked up.
You don't even know it.
I said, you've all, this is, I said, I'm already caught.
And he goes, how?
I said, the moment they catch you, they're going to run all your phone numbers and
your phone, my phone, my number is going to come up.
They're going to run them.
Oh, Matt Cox popped up on the list.
I go, and oh, look, Matt Cox popped up.
You've been talking to him for 10 months and you've emailed them several times
and it's been a bunch of text messages.
And oh, you just, you just flew down to see him.
And then a month and a half later, you've got 1.2 million and you get caught.
And it's the almost an identical fraud related scam that Matt Cox has run in
the past.
Huh, that's crazy.
So we're not even going to talk to Mr.
Cox.
We're just going to add his name to the, to the indictment because guess what?
Matt Cox is currently on federal probation and you're not going to believe
this.
He can't even mount a defense.
We know he's done.
As long as his name's next to yours, you can sit there and go, you could sit
the thing and say, I ain't going to say nothing about Cox.
It doesn't matter.
They'll get five guys that will get on the stand and say that he told them in
prison when he was locked up.
He told them that Cox was involved.
They don't, look, there's double hearsay.
You can, you could have double hearsay in federal prison.
Danny told you about me and you get to testify about what Danny said.
He doesn't even have to say anything.
People can just say this is what he said.
Five guys got up there.
Can Mr.
Cox, can I get on the stand and say that didn't happen?
Of course not.
You can't, you're not allowed.
I could, but how bad is that going to be?
So have you never committed fraud before?
Well, I see, I understand how there is a connection between me.
What am I going to say?
It's like saying this.
He goes, no, you don't understand.
You just be planning it.
So you're telling me you just be a dog at a pony show.
You do understand.
Let's say I, I plan right now a murder.
You guys are going to go murder this guy.
You guys go murder it.
I'm good, right?
Yeah, you're good.
I'm good.
I think so.
I don't think so.
Matter of fact, you two guys will get less time than me.
The person they want the most, they don't even care about the shooter.
They care about me.
I'm getting the most time.
Like one, they don't want one though.
Yeah, I don't know why he says that's different.
Yeah, but basically that's the guy that typically gets the most time is the guy
that arranged the whole thing.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
So you tell me when John Gotti, do they want John Gotti more than they want
the guys that are actually killing people?
Yeah, killing people.
They want Gotti more than that.
Yeah, right.
They'll always look at look at my buddy Pete Rossini's case.
The two actual, the guys that actually admitted to committing the murders got 25
years of peace.
Pete got 40.
I didn't do anything.
So what was this guy's reaction sitting across me at Starbucks?
He was like, he continued this one on for five or 10 minutes where he's
trying to convince me and I'm like, bro, you don't even know you've already got
me caught.
What other things are you going to do throughout the course of this entire
thing that are going to get me fucked up?
You just got me fucked up.
It hasn't started yet.
You've already got me jammed up.
What's going to happen as we you go?
What about the people that you do?
I would never tell nobody.
It doesn't matter.
I'm already screwed.
The moment you picked up the phone and said or your whatever, the moment you
emailed me, I don't know how he did it, but you know, the moment you sent me
a little email, it was over.
I was over.
It was done.
I was done.
So let me ask you this.
If this guy goes out tomorrow and commits a bunch of scams, I got a problem
and he gets fucked up.
I got a problem.
I would probably have a problem.
You have to really.
Oh yeah.
You have to understand that the prosecutor knows fuck this guy's
done like Cox has to sit there and in certain situations, they could actually
mention, well, you know, Mr.
Cox is currently on pro on a he's currently on trial on trial for this.
Of course.
He's been arrested and placed in prison before for the exact same scam.
Now, if I get on the stick now, here's the interesting thing.
If I had gone to prison for a murder and now I'm being charged with a scant
running some kind of bank fraud.
They can't really bring up the murder because it's a different
type of charge.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
Like there's no, you can't relate these two charges, but you can indict me
and then say, okay, well, well, by the way, Mr.
Cox does have a history of this and this and this, but I can't take
the stand because as soon as I take the scant stand, they're a skillful US
attorney will just destroy me.
Oh, so you've never done this.
Well, I mean, yes, I did this and that was in your last scam, right?
Or was that the scam before that one?
Which of those five?
What are the 10 scams you've done that you've been caught for?
Cause we don't know about all of them.
The jury's laughing.
I can see I'm done.
The theatrics are screwed.
Yeah, you're fucked.
And there's just nothing I can do.
No matter what I say, I'm done.
I'm done.
I'm done.
I'm done.
I'm just, it's over.
So I'm sitting there thinking you, you got me caught with your very first act.
God knows what will happen throughout the whole thing.
You know what it's like?
It's like the guy that shows up to the FBI and says, listen, man,
I got to tell you something.
I know about these guys that have been robbing banks.
Really?
How do you know?
I've been driving the getaway car.
You've been robbing banks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What are you talking about?
These guys, you're drunk.
You're just as guilty.
So what else did you tell us?
Fuck.
I mean, I look, he was actually very, he's actually a nice guy.
He's just not thinking.
I mean, it was just that, that was it.
I mean, I'm not, I'm not, I'm just, what would you do if they actually did that?
If you actually, if he, if this guy went out and committed a scam right now
and you were on and they fucking dragged you into the whole thing, I said,
Matt Cox, oh, he better hope they talked to him before they talked to me.
Cause they talked to me for your, you're done.
Hey, so do you know this guy?
Listen to that motherfucker.
Let me tell you what he did.
Here's what happened.
Boom, boom, boom.
Ask Danny.
Ask Danny.
Watch the episode.
Don't forget to subscribe.
Please hit the bell.
I mean, what, you know, oh fuck.
Turn on notifications, bitch.
Go to fucking prison again because you decided to get jumped on a plane.
Right.
I, yeah, I, I, I, no, no, you're taking the plea.
How much fucking time do I gotta do this time?
Yeah, I mean, I can't do the time for stuff I didn't do.
I can, I can't do the time for what I did.
I'm not willing to do that time.
I'm not willing to do this, but yeah, that's how bad it is.
So yeah, that's, that's, um, and then John Boziak, the, uh, what did you call
him in the podcast?
It was, um, come on, you had a great one.
It was the credit card or some credit card king or dark.
What was the name of the podcast?
Oh, the dark, the dark lord, Miami's dark lord of credit card scams.
Pretty good.
Good.
Um, that was good too.
With the, with the, the, the picture with him with the chains and everything.
Um, yeah, some guy contacted him.
He called me up.
He's like, yeah, bro, listen to this fucking guy contact me.
Told me he wants to give me like five grand or something.
He was, he was to basically teach him how to commit credit card fraud.
He's that's fucking nuts.
I go, don't do it.
And he goes, he goes, what?
I go, don't do it.
He was, he goes, no, I'm not going to do it.
He said, I, something's wrong.
That's something's not right.
I said, no, it's, it may be legit.
He may legitimately say, Hey, I'll pay you.
But when he gets caught in six months or two, two months, it's going to lead.
And I told him, this is what, what, what, what, this is what'll happen.
Look, I know a guy that got an extra 10 years because he was locked up for like,
or did he get an extra five?
He was locked up for 10 and got an extra five or he was, was doing five and he
got 10.
The point is you and I are sellies.
So you tell me, Hey, so he's about to get, I'm about to get out maybe two years.
You're going to get out in a couple of months and you tell me, man, listen,
my weed connect, but he got popped when I got cop popped.
I used to buy weed from him.
You know, not a lot like this and that, you know, oh, you can, you can talk to
my, you can talk to my, um, you can talk to my cousin, uh, whatever, you know,
uh, um, one, you can talk to my cousin one.
I'll give you his phone number.
So I write his phone number.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He can get your weed.
No problem.
Oh, okay.
Cool.
You go, you leave.
You start buying weed from one.
I don't hear from you no more.
Six months, a year go by the weed that you're buying from one turns into, um, it
goes from being marijuana to cocaine.
Oh yeah.
And now you guys are running a cocaine conspiracy where you're importing cocaine
from Mexico and it's getting more and more.
It's five kilos, 10, 20, 30.
Now it's fucking 300 kilos.
So almost two years goes by you get pinched and when they grab you and they
grab one, they say, Hey, how did you even get connected with this guy?
You're like some white guy.
You got connected with this Mexican guy.
How'd that even happen?
I mean that you're doing cocaine.
You were, you got pinched for like, you know, weed or something.
And you say, Oh, my old celly, you know, Pablo, he, uh, he hooked me up with him.
Well, guess who, guess who's name just Giovanni, guess who's name just got added
to the conspiracy.
So they come back and they say, Hey, so do you want to fight this and look, you're
looking at maybe you're now on the, by the way, you're now on like a thousand
pound or a thousand kilo conspiracy.
You want to go ahead and go to trial with that?
You're already in jail for cocaine.
This is like your fourth time and this is federal and you know, we've already
indicted you and this guy's already cooperating.
What do you think he's going to say?
Do you think he's going to say you, it was just started with weed or do you think
he's going to be willing to say, Oh, no, no, he knew we were going to sell cocaine.
We were holding his money.
No, he was, he completely knew.
We've been trading emails and we've been trading, uh, letters through the mail.
You think that's what he's going to say?
Or do you think he's going to cut you loose and say, no, bro?
He thought he was just going to give me some, uh, a little, a little weed, uh,
connect.
What do you think he's going to say to get time off?
Fuck.
So how much he's saying, so how much, how much time, how much time, uh, so what kind
of a deal can we get?
Can I get, can I, you know that this guy's got a plea.
Can I get Pablo saying, listen, five years, that's good.
I understand.
No problem.
Takes a deal immediately.
Yeah.
I mean, that happens.
I met that, that guy.
I met that guy.
God damn.
That's the exact scenario.
I don't know if he got five, an extra five years or he got 10.
I think he got five.
I think he was doing 10 and got an extra five.
That was it because he gave him a phone number.
So, you know, what's going to happen to you?
You're out.
You're trading emails with a guy you got on the phone and talk to him.
What are you going to tell him?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I did tell him how to do some credit, like credit card for all.
It wasn't a big deal.
You're done.
You're done.
You're now the leader organizer.
No, no, ask him, ask him, his lawyer saying to tell them that he's the,
you're the leader organizer.
You've already been to prison multiple times.
We got a podcast.
It's over.
You're done.
People are crazy, man.
Right.
People, but they don't think it through.
That's the problem.
They just reach out straight on the internet with a paper trail everywhere.
And they all think they're going to be gangsters when they get caught
because they watched Godfather.
You're nuts.
You're not getting a slap on the wrist.
And look, the cops are so, are so busy right now, you could run a fraud
right now and go for a year or two until you eventually get caught.
And you think, wow, I had a good run.
No, you didn't.
No, you just got higher and higher on the, on the guidelines.
That's all you wish they, I wish they'd caught me in the first six months.
I could have gotten probation.
Maybe I could have done a year, but I went so long and so hard by the time
they caught me.
Now you just better hope to God that nobody gets caught doing fraud that
even has your phone number in there.
Better burn that thing.
It's bad.
It's bad.
It's time to change the number.
To keep changing the number.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's, uh, yeah, that's rough.
Bro.
So today I listened to six episodes of that fucking Theranos.
Nice.
Elizabeth Holmes.
Shit.
Did you watch that?
What did you, did you watch the HBO documentary?
I didn't watch the HBO one.
I mean, I've, I've read a couple articles and I read like three
articles and I saw a, I've seen two documentaries on her.
Really?
Yeah.
Which ones did you see?
I didn't know there was more than one.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
There's one that's like an hour, maybe it's like 50 minutes.
There's right around an hour.
It's, um, yeah, I listened to like, I listened to like six hours of fucking
podcast.
It was a, it was one of those like serial type podcasts.
What is she's crazy, right?
Bro, that bitch is fucked up.
What about the way she lowers her voice?
So that's the creepy thing.
And the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the turtleneck.
Oh yeah.
Like Steve Jobs.
Indulating Steve Jobs.
Yeah.
She's trying to be like Steve Jobs.
She, she raised almost a billion dollars.
Yeah.
She's like 24 years old.
She was worth $4 billion on paper, on paper, on paper.
Yeah.
That's when you get out with all the money.
She got Rupert Murdoch to give her like 150 million.
Doing what?
She, she came out, she went to, would she go to Stanford?
She went to Stanford.
She dropped out for three semesters.
Yeah.
Went to Stanford, decided that she was going to do a, come up with a technology
company, medical technology company that would allow you to give a pinprick of
blood and would allow it to be run through 300 different tests to tell you
exactly what's going on with you.
And you're saying, you know, everything about you.
Three, three, that's the basic, the base 300 tests that are out there.
This machine will run all of them.
And so she's going around talking about technology and doing this.
She forms a company.
She actually gets a neighbor to give her a million dollars, right?
A neighbor gives her, who made a bunch of money and she sat down and explained
and she's always been super smart.
So, and her parents, her dad was in like politics in DC and her mom was like
her family was in politics and her, she had some like lineage where her grandparents
like used to be rich, but not anymore.
And they still had the prestige.
They had the prestige, but they didn't have the money.
Right.
And they interviewed one of her friends from like middle school and high
school and said she was kind of like the loner.
She didn't really have any friends.
She was always by herself.
She was all like the last one in gym class.
Did she kind of get caught lying a few times?
Like, like, like telling some, some fabrications and she just, she was just
off, like off pretty girl.
Yeah.
Pretty girl, pretty smart.
I don't know.
Yeah.
She was weird looking though.
She was like a female Mark Zuckerberg.
She had that look.
She had those like dead eyes like Mark Zuckerberg.
I think she's got those wide eyes with like the whole time like this.
Yeah.
And there's multiple cases like, oh, let me explain what I did.
All of a sudden she just changed her voice.
She's like started like trying to make her voice deeper to be.
They think.
Veritas, whatever my company's named, we are, you know, amazing.
We're pushing the boundaries.
We want to be the best women.
Women need to be the best.
We want to push women's.
Is that your baritone?
We have to do it more like this.
Yeah.
It is lower.
She was faking it.
That's the point.
I know she was, but no, but she would fake it and then every once while
somebody would say something, she'd go, well, like, no, that's not what
happened.
I didn't, um, uh, she would switch.
Yeah.
Periodically, they catch her accidentally switching.
And employees said by the end of the day, she would do it when she's tired.
She'd forget to throw the fucking nuts.
She was dating a guy that was like 40 something years old.
She was in her early twenties dating like a 45 year old, the Indian guy who
gave her 14 million bucks, drove a Lambo.
Everybody said they were fucking 14 million.
They lived together 14 million.
Damn, right?
We're fucking kidding me.
I just gave you $14 million.
Yeah.
So the point is that yeah, he was, he was filthy, rich, sunny, sunny.
Yeah.
And you can do names sunny who made a bunch of money in like the dot com dot
com bubble and, uh, she was Elizabeth.
What?
I always want to say Elizabeth Holmes, Holmes.
I always want to say smart.
Yeah.
Um, so she raised like almost a billion dollars.
She hired all these people, all these like computer scientists, research
scientists, these laboratory fucking people.
And she had all these scientists working on developing this thing
that was in a box where it would basically take your blood with a finger
prick and it would tell you everything about you basically everything
from your cholesterol to your like the different cancers you could potentially
have and everything about your health, your metabolic health, everything
300 different tests within one drop of blood, but they never actually worked.
No, because it's not possible.
It wasn't possible.
She hired Apple designers.
She hired motherfuckers who designed iPhones for Apple motherfuckers
that worked for Steve Jobs.
Like that all these people don't know that it doesn't work.
They all figured it out eventually and they were all like, what the fuck's
going on?
Like they do all these tests and like they're all failing or a very few
of them are actually working, but the ones that do work.
The blood tests are way off.
Yeah, they're right.
They were like across the spectrum.
Some, some time, you know, they were erratic like that.
They weren't they weren't accurate.
They were not accurate.
Yeah.
So there's all these red flags happening and like all the tests were off
half more than like 90% of them weren't working at all.
Right.
But she's like, oh, make them look nice.
Make them look like an iPhone.
We're going to market it.
We're going to hire.
We're going to get all this VC money.
Borrow.
We're going to we're going to get VC is like Silicon Valley shit.
Like scams.
Who was it?
Was it was it?
Well, venture capitalists aren't aren't scams, but she's running.
She's running.
All of them kind of are scams though, because all of them.
If I land, you think she started it as a scam from the get go?
No, I think I think she had it.
I think she's got too far.
I think she was running with fake it till you make it like, hey, exactly.
Like what we can do is if I raise enough money, we'll we'll put the
it'll actually work.
Yeah, we'll hire the bed and she's hiring the best.
She's paying tons of money.
We will dump all this money into research and development.
We'll get this to work.
But the fact of the matter is, is yeah, we will in a hundred years.
They even hire now.
She even hired the ad agency who made that original Apple 1984 commercial.
I love that.
Where they're where they're throat.
She throws the hammer at the screen or whatever they hired them.
They paid them.
They paid them like a $14 million retainer to run a whole ad to run a
whole ad campaign on how the thing worked with only a drop of blood.
But yet it didn't work yet.
They were just trying to get everything.
Was it Walgreens?
Was it Walgreens Walgreens dump three?
They started with a hundred million.
And then I think it went up to $300 million of Walgreens and somebody else.
Just Walgreens.
I think I thought it was Walgreens and CVS or something.
Nope.
Just Walgreens, 300 million.
They got the only gotten a 41 Walgreens, though, and they basically
had to deal with Walgreens, but they didn't.
It didn't fucking work.
So what they were doing was people were going into Walgreens and they
marketed this prick fucked up test.
They marketed this prick for 10 years.
This wasn't a year.
This was 10 years.
She's living large for 10 years.
Yeah.
Is she living the good life out there too the whole time?
Oh, I mean, sure.
Yeah, I think so.
Well, all her interviews like, I don't sleep.
I don't all I do is work.
I don't even own a TV.
All I do is work, work, work 24, seven work.
That's why I'm so rich.
That's why I'm so successful.
And then she started getting on like she did a media tour to bang that
14 million out.
He knows by now.
He knows it's over.
Yeah.
Sunny knows it's over.
Yeah.
But listen, within six months a year, maybe two, maybe you could go two
years, but after two, three years, he's got to be knowing.
He's in the meetings.
He's has to start knowing.
He drove a Lamborghini to work.
The weird, a weird thing.
I thought I was there on the and she's going to trial on the podcast.
Yeah.
She's about to go to trial.
You're doing what are you doing?
You can't go to trial.
You know, she's trying to say I'm now she's trying to say mental illness.
Yeah.
Is she going to be your own lawyer?
Hell no.
I can't imagine she's could do the thing such a cluster.
She doesn't have it's like it's funny.
It's like when I pulled the Ted Bundy, when I got my lawyer and all these
guys were like, we're like, man, bro, your lawyer had you plead to 26 and a
half years.
I'm like, I mean, well, I didn't give her anything to work with.
Yeah.
Well, she's a good lawyer.
If you're look, if you're caught with the dead body and the smoking gun and
you're on video 26 is good.
It doesn't matter who the lawyer is.
I love it when people think that with a good lawyer.
What are you talking about with a good lawyer?
It's they're not magicians.
Yeah.
OJ got off.
That's true.
They're saying a bunch of federal prosecutors said that they haven't seen
anybody like this bitch since Bernie made off.
Yeah.
She's she's in it.
Oh, what about the scare tactics and the firings?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, she's like bully people like threaten people.
Like if anyone ever tried to like question her like, hey, this shit's not
working.
Uh, I'm kind of concerned like get your shit.
People are getting blood tested.
Saying they could have like extreme levels of certain things in their blood
and they're freaking out thinking they got cancer and people are like going to
the doctor and freaking out about their health because these blood tests are so
inaccurate.
Yeah.
Like, how dare you question our integrity?
You're fired.
Oh, God, how do you think you got to lower your baritone?
Yeah, you have to watch it.
Yeah, it was all lies.
It was just called the one I the one I listened to was called on Spotify.
What was it called?
What the fuck was it?
It was like an ABC podcast.
I'll get you the short version.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
I was listening to the documentary.
She's got a bunch of HBO is probably one of the largest frauds out there.
Yeah.
Not the largest, but one of the current.
That's the crazy thing.
It's current.
Well, it's yeah, it's about to be like three, four years ago.
She got I mean, they've been out on pre-trial release.
I think they started the company in 2010.
No, she's free.
She's free right now.
Yeah.
She's living in San Francisco.
I don't think you can.
Can it be 10 2010?
No, I thought they I thought she'd gone like maybe it was like 10 years.
Like this was dragging on for 10 years.
Maybe it was like maybe right before that 2009, 2008.
What am I?
But, bro, so one of the biggest investors in the company.
He was a Elizabeth Holmes that came right up.
A lot of people looking her up.
What was the fucking guy's name?
Hold on.
I got to look this guy's name.
Oh my God.
Oh, look at the eyes.
She's crazy.
Show me a picture.
No, that's not it.
Well, this one's 30 minutes.
I got one that's 30 minutes.
Play a clip.
Send it to me.
Oh, here's the HBO special.
Her real voice.
They have one about her real voice.
Okay.
There was this kid.
There was this kid named Tyler Schultz that worked for her and her.
His granddad, his grandpa was a secretary of state George Schultz.
He was one of the biggest investors in the company, like a 90 year old dude.
And this lady, Elizabeth, she was like being like really buddy, buddy to this guy
because he was one of the biggest investors and they were like at family
dinners and Christmas parties.
Only 30 minutes.
Oh yeah.
She is real Zuckerberg looking to with those eyes.
It's like 30 minutes though.
Oh yeah.
That one's only 30 minutes.
You have to watch six hours.
She's trying to pull off the like full on Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs thing.
Weird looking.
And this young kid jacked up on Adderall and shit.
This kid, Tyler fucking went to, I forget what it was.
I think it was the Wall Street Journal and went to one of the investigative
reporters and basically fucking snitched her out on everything.
Basically said this because they already, they already were like,
they spelled blood in the water.
Like something's fishy about this company and he basically told them everything.
Spilled the beans.
Spilled the beans.
And here's one.
This is a 45 minute documentary.
I think he cut a plea.
No, him.
He didn't do anything.
He actually went to his grandfather and said, this is what's going on.
Yeah.
And he didn't believe him.
His grandfather was like, you know, you don't know everything.
You don't this.
You don't that.
He's like, grandpa, you're dumping millions of dollars in it.
You got your buddies all investing.
I'm telling you this shit doesn't work.
I'm on the inside in the labs.
Everybody knows it doesn't work down.
Now you're just a young man.
She's a genius.
God damn.
She's like 25 years old.
And the craziest shit is this bitch had Harvey Weinstein's lawyer.
Nice.
Representing their company.
This guy also represented Enron, I think.
Oh, yeah.
You understand?
And everybody you sign a non-disclosure coming in and non-disclosure leaving.
Damn.
Did one guy commit suicide?
Yes.
One guy committed suicide.
One of the scientists committed suicide.
Because like some psychology stuff.
Yeah.
It really was a lot like it reminded me of Scientology.
Really?
Yeah.
The whole thing did because it was just a fucking scam.
It's like they just want to prop up this big picture because nothing's really happening behind the doors.
That's Enron.
That's all of course.
Elbron.
Hubbard.
Yeah.
They're all Ponzi scheme.
That's the guy that started Scientology.
Are you taking those gummies?
What are you doing?
Yeah.
He's on the gummies.
He's on it, bro.
He's connecting the dots.
There's no dots.
We're on a different level than you right now, Matt Cox.
Yeah.
That's the.
We're on a whole another dimension.
That's the most polite way to say it.
We're in another dimension right now.
Yeah.
Broke.
They keep saying she's looking at 20 years.
20 years.
I'm telling you right now, I can't believe they're saying 20.
Yeah.
I can't believe it's not way more than that.
I know, right?
How much did you steal?
Look how much this bitch stole.
For real.
Honestly, this went on and on and on.
You got 26 and you only stole like 6 million.
Yeah, but she's got Weinstein's lawyer.
No, she doesn't.
Not now.
Oh yeah, she does have Weinstein's lawyer.
She probably doesn't now.
No, yeah, she still does.
How much time did Bernie get?
Bernie got 150 years.
150?
Oh yeah, he's done.
How much money did he steal?
You know, he works at Commissary, right?
Really?
Yeah, all day long, you can hear him calling out inmate's names.
Really?
Yeah, he's like Johnson, 40117.
Yeah, but the only difference between.
Thomas, Window 2, 4005.
He's called your name and they tell you what window to go to.
Matt, the only difference between her and Madoff was that Madoff was very conscious.
Very conscious that he was running a Ponzi scheme and he was very aware he was never
going to pay anybody back.
Yeah.
I think this lady thought, this lady thought that she eventually.
She had a chance.
Eventually this shit could actually happen.
Madoff didn't start his company like that.
You know, he didn't start off immediately saying, this is a Ponzi scheme.
I'm going to go as long as I can.
He was like chairman of the stock exchanges.
You know, he was a legitimate guy at a legitimate company.
It morphed, most of these morph into that.
Do you see what I'm saying?
Look, you want to know one of the ways to know that he knew from the beginning it wasn't
going to be a huge scam because he started the money or he started it with his own money
and he did it in his own name.
If you're running a Ponzi scheme and I'm going to project false earnings, one, even if I
started with my own name, I wouldn't start it in my name.
You know, you would put somebody else as the front man.
You would, or you would use a false identity or you would, there's a thousand ways to do
it.
It's something that started off as a legitimate and then he started providing false, you know,
false earnings or false returns.
And then it got to the point where it was like, okay, I can never make up for this.
I'm not even going to invest anymore.
He's just going to ride until the wheels fall off.
Yeah, I'll just ride this fucker out.
Maybe I go, keep in mind the longer you go, the more emboldened you are.
Then he gets investigated several times.
He actually passes the audits.
You pass the audit with no trades.
No, because they're, oh, no, what, what, what did you do?
Oh, I did this and this and this.
Looks good, Bernie.
Thanks a lot.
So every time he did that, he just got more emboldened, probably thought, look, I'll ride
this fucker.
I like, I'll never, I'm never going to, I can never retire, but maybe I'll just die of cancer
and something and then they'll figure it out when I'm gone.
Or, you know, who knows what he's thinking, but the one thing you can't do is stop.
You know, that's the same.
And with her, I think it's the same thing.
I think she started thinking, I'm going to fake it until I make it.
Right.
And then we're going to come up with these revolutionary things because all she was saying is like,
the tests already exist, but you need a machine this big.
We just have to really shrink the technology.
And how often is that?
Look at the first cell phone.
The first cell phone was a brick.
It was this big.
We shrunk it down to where, honestly, it's not even this.
You can have everything in this.
You can have in your ear in just a little thing.
People just don't do it.
It's too expensive.
But the point is she could, she was thinking, just shrink the technology.
Seems simple.
But the problem is she was, you know, she did the same thing that I think most of these,
you know, psychopaths do is that one, she's not thinking, thinking it through.
She doesn't care about the ramifications.
She's planning it all.
But the big thing is she's promising too big.
You're saying this machine can do the 300 known tests on blood.
What are you doing?
Who?
No, not you.
Why would you say 300?
Right.
Why wouldn't you have just taken like the core ones that you could?
You knew you would get it.
Right.
You don't need to test for...
100.
Right.
Do you really need to test to make sure you don't have some disease that's already been eradicated?
Like, oh, we're testing for smallpox.
There's no smallpox.
This doesn't even exist.
Well, we're going to test for it.
Yeah, but you need a machine this big to test for.
What are you doing?
Why are you throwing that one in there?
You've, you need a room this size to run all the tests that you're saying you're going to
fit into what's basically the size of a CPU.
What do you do?
You can't do it.
You know, so it's like, why would you...
It's like these Ponzi scheme guys, you know how they get caught right away?
Most of them get caught right away.
Why Bernie Madoff went so long as Bernie Madoff was giving you 8% to 10% returns.
Like, well, I think it was between like 6% to 8%.
It wasn't outrageous, but it's consistent.
Your money was secure.
It's these guys that say, you're going to get 140% return.
Okay.
Well, great.
You can maybe go two years if you can keep borrowing and then it all collapses.
You're just an idiot.
Yeah.
You got swamped the right way.
Yeah, we got the money in.
Yeah, but you lasted two years and then you had to go to prison for 10.
You know, so it's like, do you want to have a real run?
You want to really make raise someone?
Be reasonable.
Don't say 300 because not just that.
If you raise enough money and you put it into the, you put it into R&D, you might pull
it off.
Right, right.
There's no way she's pulling this off.
Keep developing it.
Make it better, you know.
Right.
That's actually it.
You have to start with 300.
She was thinking, we're going to fucking pull this off before the feds come in.
We got to pull it off before the feds come in.
But the craziest thing is she kept raising money by getting all these bad asses to join
her company.
Yeah, yeah.
She knew what she was doing.
She got the best scientists, the best known and political contacts.
Well respected scientists in the country.
She hired them to work for them, put them on the front page of her website.
So when she went to go get investment money, they're like, oh shit, she's got these people.
But the scientists, once they start working there, they're like, nothing works.
I don't care.
Go work in HR or something.
Let's try it.
We're going to transfer you.
You're still going to work here, but you're not going to do science because you know the
science is all fucked up.
Oh, you know what?
I love when she would have the people come in.
Like you're going to possibly invest or you're one of the investors or maybe you're thinking
about investing.
She'd have them come in.
Check everything out.
Yeah, well, this is the machine.
Go ahead.
Let's take the sample of blood.
Okay.
Now you place it in here.
Okay.
All right.
It, and then start.
Okay.
It's going to take a while.
Let's go in the other room and have some, some, uh, we have, or Durbs and we'll want you
to meet Bob, the top scientist walks into the other room.
Another lab tech comes, sneaks in, pulls out the fucking blood, goes into the other room,
runs a bunch of tests with it, comes back an hour later, sticks it back in the machine,
sticks it.
And then when they, you're, you're, uh, it should be done by now.
Let's go back in there.
She walks back in, pulls it out and goes, oh, so, oh, so you're diabetic?
I am diabetic.
Sold.
I also see that you have this and this, you know, you might want to get a cat scan.
You know, this is what's going on.
They totally, and they said she didn't do it once.
She did, they did it over and over and over.
So you, how is she now going to get on the stand and be like, I had no idea the technology
wasn't going to work.
You've been running a scam for 10 years.
Right.
Right.
That was just creative financing.
Yeah.
But the whole thing, the whole, like the biggest kicker, the biggest selling point of the whole
thing was it's only a drop of blood, but people are going into Walgreens and they're doing
regular blood draws.
Yeah.
It never worked.
Like what the fuck is this?
I'm supposed to get it.
Pick my finger.
You're pulling out fucking whole vial of blood.
That's just the pit.
Oh, oh, oh, the blood.
That's just marketing.
That's just good marketing.
Now let's, now let's get that vein out.
That's just good for the first quarter.
You think the quarter pounder really weighs a quarter pound?
She just, she's something else, boy.
They're going to love her in prison.
She's fucked.
Would you be pissed off if she only got 20 years?
She'll probably go to a nice prison though, right?
I wouldn't be pissed off.
It's a money crime, which is horrific.
I'm not saying it's not horrific, but God, I don't know, 20 years.
That's a long time.
But honestly, what were you thinking?
I mean, that's bad.
You almost typically, I am typically always like, you know what?
It's too much time because it's almost always too much time.
But my God, I mean, we're talking about almost a billion dollars
over the course of 10 years.
I mean, you could have it at many, she has some mental illness.
Do you understand?
First of all, if you knew it was a scam, money's going to be,
you know, if you knew, you're going to put some money away.
Do something.
You know this is coming down.
Nothing.
I'll bet you she didn't put nothing that way.
Secondly, the other thing is there's got to be a mental illness there
because she's was unwilling to accept that it wasn't going to work
and she's threatening and she's doing it like,
like why didn't you claim bankruptcy?
It wasn't coming together.
You knew she just kept raising money and raising money and raising money.
Yeah, that's where she went wrong.
What are you doing?
I mean, there's got to be plus the baritone, the wearing the sweaters.
I mean, she's got to be like a mental illness.
What do you think she has?
Diagnosis.
Oh, I mean, she's absolutely narcissistic.
She's got antisocial disorder for sure.
She's either a sociopath or a psycho,
but probably a psychopath because she's got good organizational skills.
You know, she's able to, at the very least,
she's able to fake relationships with people, you know,
which is basically what I have.
Charming.
Yeah, she's super charming, super charming,
but definitely narcissistic.
She's very concerned about her image.
She also knew that the image was part of the whole kind of scam.
Like, I don't know.
It's tough, bro.
That's tough.
Yeah.
But definitely, listen, why would you go to trial?
Unless they just came out of the gate and said, take 20.
And she's like, fuck it.
The problem with this, by the way, is you understand a lot of times,
people will be like, well, the most thing gives you 20.
And you go, okay, and then you get sentenced and the judge says,
yeah, you got 15 charges on the run.
Kingpin.
Yeah.
No, I'm going to run them.
You know, I'm going to run them, you know, I'm going to,
what do they call it?
The guys just always call it this.
What is it when you have a train, they're going to,
they're going to stack it, whatever they'd say,
and they're going to stack them instead of running them, you know,
at the same time, like concurrently, they're going to run them consecutively.
And then they're just going to stack the charges.
So you're 20 years.
Yeah, but you got 10 charges, so it's 200 years.
Five years.
My lawyer said, no matter what your lawyer said.
What if she doesn't get any jail time?
She won't.
There's no way she's not getting any jail time.
Really?
There's no way.
She's getting jail time.
She got a really good lawyer, Matt Cox.
Fuckin' care of who she has.
She's getting, she's going to prison.
If they, if they hit her, bro.
She going to Coleman?
No, Coleman, they just, they're turning it into a men's camp.
Oh, no more women's camp?
No, the whole complex is now male.
Really?
Yeah, they're going to move all the women out and transfer it to men.
Why are they doing that?
You know, I didn't get a memo.
I don't know.
I thought you were showing the mailing list.
No, I just, I heard it.
So, yeah, but yeah.
They didn't send you a Christmas card?
No.
No.
I, oh my God.
Yeah, okay.
So what, what, what, what, what are we doing?
That's a poor Elizabeth.
Let's wrap it up.
Poor Elizabeth.
Let's wrap it up.
How do you host Elizabeth?
If you invested, if you were, if you were some, some, you know, widow with $2 million
and you dumped your life savings into it, she pissed it away on, on just tech that every
fucking scientist she had hired said, it ain't going to happen.
It's not really scientists, isn't it?
It's, what was she, who was she hiring?
She was, it was really technology.
She's just trying to shrink the technology.
It was technology.
It was also really field tech.
I don't know what that is.
No, they were also, they were like, they were researchers.
They were scientific researchers and they were whatever.
People who studied blood and shit.
I don't know.
What are those?
Biologists?
Yeah.
I guess biologists.
This is where the Florida education system broke down.
I don't know.
I went to public school.
I work in structures.
I mean, I can barely read.
That's good.
I got to go to bed.
Santa Claus is coming tonight.
There you go.
And that was a good, that was a good hour podcast, Matt.
Thanks for coming.
Here's what it is.
Yeah.
They can't all be three hours.
Everyone go subscribe.
He's not doing it.
Yeah, Matt's not going to help you with any scam.
He's going to get wrapped up.
Go to my channel.
Don't go to his channel.
Subscribe.
Hit the button.
Share the video.
Subscribe to Danny.
Hit the button.
Hit the bell.
Hit the bell, bitch.
The whole thing.
Please and thank you.
I wore a red shirt.
I love you.
And you, this isn't, you're, he's, well, I guess we're all a little festive.
Yeah, we're all, we all got our own, we all got our own flare going here.
I'm ready to wrap it up.
Smoke my cigar.
Merry Christmas.
Everything's sitting here because of this.
Will you smoke it?
You were smoking a cigar, right?
Yeah.
That's it, right?
What are we doing?
We're done.
We're all done.
Yeah, we're all done.
Yeah, we're all done.
Yeah, see if you're rich.
Goodbye, world.
Yeah.
