This was another huge mistake of mine.
On my way, I stop in to like, I drive through like Baton Rouge or something and I get a
track phone and I call home and I call a few people and everyone said I would do that when
I was somewhere else, I'd call just to check out my mom, my dad, you know.
So I call and I call a friend of mine and she says, look, call the FBI agent, see if
you can turn yourself in.
And at this point, I'm pretty strong, I'm pretty exhausted.
I've had a bad couple of days.
So I'm thinking, okay, so I call the FBI agent, the name was Candace Calderon.
Candace is like a law enforcement zealot and really, really did not like me, just despised
me.
I don't know why, everybody else was very pleasant, so very professional.
This was just vicious to me.
And so I remember, I called her and I said, hey, my name is Matt Cox, I understand you
wanted me to call you and she's like, oh my God, yeah, Mr. Cox, we've been looking for
you.
I said, yeah, I understand that.
She said, yeah, I need you to turn yourself in.
I said, no, I'm not going to do that.
And she said, well, let's talk about this.
And she said, well, what am I going to get?
How much time?
And she said, well, I mean, that's not really how it works.
You turn yourself in, then we determine, we take that into consideration.
And I said, yeah, I'm not, that's not going to happen, I'm not doing that.
And she goes, well, I can talk to the U.S. attorney and see if he can recommend something.
And okay, so she's like, you do understand we're going to catch you.
And I go, well, I'm not sure how.
And she says, well, I mean, let's face it, she says, eventually you'll get pulled over
by the police.
I said, I've been pulled over by the police.
She says, well, I mean, you'll go to get a ticket, you'll try and hand them a driver's
license.
I said, I've handed him driver's license.
As a matter of fact, I've gotten like four tickets in different people's names.
I actually went to traffic school as another guy recently.
I got like three tickets in his name.
He was going to lose his license.
I had a car in his name.
I had to go.
Jesus.
So plus it was eight hours I didn't have to spend with Becky.
So I'm telling her this and she's like, you know, oh, you're so cocky.
She said, you think you're not going to get away, you know, eventually you'll get caught.
You'll get, you'll, you'll, she said, you'll go home to see somebody, somebody will recognize
you.
You'll get pulled over.
You'll, somebody, something will happen.
I said, listen, nobody's going to recognize me.
I said, I've had multiple plastic surgeries.
I mean, you know, and if you actually look at the pictures of me, I mean, I look vastly
different.
They actually, anyway, that's another story.
And the point is, is I'm like, look, nobody's going to recognize me.
I got multiple driver's licenses.
I've got passports in other people's names.
I've been in and out of the country.
I said, and there's nobody in Tampa that I want to see.
So unless we work something out, you're never going to have this conversation with me in
person.
And so she says, okay, she calms down.
And I remember she said, uh, what did she say?
She kept calling me sweetie, listen, sweetie, listen, sweetie.
And she goes, I remember she said, uh, you don't realize how close we are to catching
you.
She's, we're 90% sure of where you're at.
I go, yeah, well, only a hundred percent counts, sweetie.
And she was just like, oh, she hated me, but see, she was cocky and I was cocky.
She was, you know, and I shouldn't have been like, I shouldn't have, you know, just gotten
down there and started being snied back to, but she was so arrogant, you know, and arrogant
people hate arrogant people.
I can't, you know, so I, I really her, her condescension was just like, so we go back
and forth, back and forth.
By the way, when I was eventually sentenced, this is brought up in front of the judge and
instead of me calling to turn myself in and try and figure out how to turn myself in and
get a, try and work out a deal, it turned into Mr. Cox constantly called the FBI and
mocked them.
What are you talking about?
I called a couple times.
So anyway, I hang up the phone and when she says, she goes, okay, I'll call you back.
I will wait a minute.
I'll call you back.
She was just leave your phone on.
Now I said, cause I'm going to shut my phone off.
She goes, just leave your phone on.
I went, I said, no, you're probably tracking this phone right now.
You're trying to triangulate her or something.
And she goes, she says, oh, get over yourself.
She says, you're not that important.
And I remember thinking, yeah, she's right.
Who do I think I'm nobody?
They're not trying to track the phone.
It's just stupid.
Come to find out when I later ordered the freedom of information act, they were
tracking the phone out of Baton Rouge and they'd actually sent two us marshals to
the, to the seven 11 where I bought the phone where I was sitting talking to her
on the phone.
Really?
So it just so happens that I hung up the phone and I turned it off until I
called back in a couple hours and I got up and I got in my vehicle and started
driving.
So I was driving when I called her back a few hours later and I called and she
said, look, we talked to Robert Mazakowski, which is the U.S.
attorney here in Florida in Tampa.
She says, I can get you seven years, seven years.
And I thought that's seven years.
And she doesn't even know about the other stuff.
I'd already told her, look, there's other stuff you don't know about.
She says, yeah, but if you come in first and you tell us about it, we don't
charge you, we'll take it into consideration.
So I thought, if I tell her about the money and this and that, I might be okay.
Anyway, I was like, I'm not doing seven years.
And she says, look, we can maybe work something out.
And I go, okay, well, what about in Atlanta?
What about for Atlanta?
And she's like, well, you need to turn yourself into Tampa.
So we start going back and forth, back and forth.
And eventually I go, what about the secret service?
And she's like, look, you need to turn yourself into the FBI in Tampa.
Just come back to Tampa.
And I went, well, yeah, but I'm closer to Atlanta.
Maybe I should just turn myself in Atlanta.
And eventually it comes out that I'm like, look, I've mentioned Atlanta
several times, you won't even address it.
Did you talk to the U.S.
attorney in Atlanta?
And she goes, finally, she says, no, I didn't talk to the U.S.
attorney in Atlanta.
I can only speak for Tampa.
I go, so the seven years is only for Tampa.
And she goes, right.
Yes.
I said, oh yeah, we're done.
We're done.
I wouldn't believe you if you told me water was wet.
We're, it's over.
And I just chucked the phone out the window.
