Are there a lot of people that commit suicide in prison? Is that a regular thing?
Is that like a concern? Like the guy was like, don't drink, don't drink the fucking the liquid.
Probably in the pen there's a lot more like mutilation guys will cut their themselves,
their fucking dicks off. What? Oh yes, that's something. Did Jeffrey Epstein commit suicide?
Did you know I'm getting people that are saying that in the comments? Really? You need to investigate
You should.
Was he murdered? Anyway, so uh, we don't even want to touch on that one. So there's a look.
That prison's gnarly looking. It's a fucking tower. That prison that he was in, the Metropolitan
Prison in New York. Yeah, most prisons are not Coleman. Coleman's like this long flat.
Coleman's nice. Plenty of space. It's a decent prison. Yeah. Anybody that goes to Coleman and
complains, they're just how many prisons are like that prison that Epstein was in where it's just
like a fucking tower. Oh, oh, I don't know. I don't know. He was rich. He was in rich people
prison, right? No, that was not a rich people prison. No. No, not this time. His first bid,
he barely did any time at all. Like he has to stay at the prison like five days a week or
something. Just sleep there. Really? Yeah. His first time he got in trouble. Come in during
like the week and leave on the weekends or vice versa. On the weekend, he had to stay there.
Yeah. But during the week, he was allowed to leave at like seven or eight in the morning and come
back at seven or eight at night. He got to work. He only really slept there during the week. And
then I didn't know that was a thing. No, it's not a thing. He had such an overwhelming amount of
money and legal talent that they made this sweetheart deal. And of course, he gets out and
starts doing it again. He's got a sickness. Instead of saying, hey, I got to pass. I need to go fly
straight. It just emboldened him. So, okay, so the prison, as far as you mean the
pill line thing? Like the pills? Yeah, no, I don't know. I was asking about suicide and that led
just right into the Epstein. Yeah, it's fucking broke. There's lots of people on pills. Do you
think Epstein really killed himself? I have no idea. What are you doing? What would you guess? I
don't know. I want to talk about it. It's a hot topic out there. It's a hot topic. It's relevant,
Matt. This is a good clip. This is a YouTube clip. This is a viral clip. Barely read anything about
Epstein. You didn't? Yeah, no, of course. I saw the news. There was a couple of articles. They're
questioning it. Nobody knows. The guard was there. He had threatened suicide. What do you think? Do
you think Hillary could have paid off the guards to kill himself? He really did. Really? Yes,
of course. You think the camera's just randomly malfunctioning down there? Half of them cameras
don't fucking work, bro. You understand? You know that the towers, you know the towers? They make
sure that cameras are working, man, when Jeffrey Epstein was in there. No, I think it's a place
that's run by idiots. Nobody gets to the top of their field and ends up working at the BOP.
Nobody. The cameras are never working. You know how understaffed they are?
Do you know that the pens, all the pens have towers, right? Nobody's in them.
Nobody stays in them. Really? Yeah, they've been in here for like 10 years.
Holy shit. No, no, I don't think he was murdered. Maybe he was. I don't know. Yeah, but they said his
neck was like severe. I don't know. I didn't pay attention, but they said his neck was literally
fucking snapped. We're not going to solve it. We're not going to solve it. Matt, you might be able
to solve it. Matt, if there's anyone who can solve this, it's fucking you, man. Did you read? Did
you see what happened to his neck? Did you look into what happened to his neck? No, I didn't,
but I'm sure I could order his autopsy report. Do you know how many guys autopsy would be bad?
Can we just do a whole podcast on Epstein? You would have to order Freedom of Information
Act. How much would that cost? We don't need those people showing up here. It's free. It's
basically free. Okay. The only time I've ever been denied the Freedom of Information Act is
Frank Amadeo. CIA, like everybody was like, you know, no national security. And you don't think
they'll do that for Epstein? They got to. No, because why? They say he had dirt on everybody.
But if they're saying it was a suicide, then the autopsy report and the suicide report and
the blood, whatever, where they test his blood, all that's public records. You can get all that.
But of course they're going to say that, right? What? Well, I mean, if they've done it right,
it's all doctored anyway. Right. You're never going to know. Even if the real killer came out
and admitted it right now, there's so much stuff that points away from it, they'd never believe
him. It'd just be another conspiracy. You'd never know. Somebody in there has an arts degree
that forms the paperwork. Some guy with a fine arts degree dumbied up everything. Right. I'll hold
paperwork. Holy shit. Oh my God. It's ridiculous. You know what I was thinking about when you
talked about the depression medication is that they changed providers at one point
for the depression medication. Could you imagine being the fucking pill company that sells to
the prisons? To the prison bureau? Wow. They're printing money. The same ones that the fucking,
they probably write out of Florida. You know, there's certain rules that they have to pay top
dollar. The prisons do. Yeah. They go through like, what is it, PIOs or IPA, what are those?
An IPO? No, for the fucking, the HMOs or something, not HMOs, what am I talking about?
Basically. Like insurance? Yeah, for your medical. Yeah. Right. So it's not like they're just
giving them. So not all inmates can get them. They have to have a certain, they have to pay for
insurance. No, basically. You just got to qualify for it. No, you're getting your, you're getting
whatever you're supposed to get. They just have some kind of different insurance carriers in the
prison system where they're providing insurance. That's where all your tax dollars are going,
Danny. So they switched providers. This is what I was told. Who fucking knows with these guys?
So not all inmates can get medication at the prison. Yeah, of course they can. Of course,
all of them. Okay. So the prisons have to buy the insurance. The prisons have insurance to cover
the whole prison. Yeah, you don't make any money. Got it. Okay. I got it. You don't make any money
there. Yeah, but your fucking relatives can pay for it, right? No. Your mom can't give you
commentary that pays for your pills and shit. No. No, they wouldn't allow that because that would
mean that the rich people are getting better care than the poor people. Right. Okay. You gotta go
see them. That's why I asked these questions. I don't know the answers. I got how I learned.
It's a great equalizer. You could be fucking a multi-multi-millionaire. You're sleeping on the
top bunk. Got it. Does it not give a shit? I've been here two years. It's a great equalizer. Fuck
you. You know, I mean, you're, you know, I'm a grade one and I'm making 60 bucks a month and you
come in and you're doing the same job, but you just got here. You're making $15 a month. You
know what I'm saying? It's trust me. It's just very little. You can maybe put money on other
people's books, which you're not allowed to do. And you can get somebody to maybe clean your room,
do your laundry, make your life a little bit easier, but it ain't gonna be much easier.
The best it could be is still shit.
you
