Hello world, we're back with everyone's favorite con man Matthew Becox.
On this episode we talked about the current state of media and the true crime genre specifically.
We talked about John McAfee, Bill Cosby, Donald Trump, you name it, we covered it.
We were exceptionally fired up on this episode.
Please enjoy this invigorating episode with Matthew Becox.
Matthew Becox in the flesh, back with his new book with the fancy new book cover.
Matthew Becox is here with new books, new paintings, and did you get some work done on the hairline?
No, not recently. I don't need to bro, it's permanent.
So does it fade? No, it's not like Botox, you got to get a touch up every now and again.
The hairline is just do it once and there's no maintenance required.
It's definitely graying, it's graying.
That's alright, you can be just for men, right?
I'm not doing that, everybody says that, that's what I meant.
Oh, the color?
Yeah, dude, I'm not doing that.
I am going, I'm going.
The Silver Fox.
The Silver Fox, yeah.
Instead of the Silver Cox, the Silver Fox or the Silver Cox?
Yeah.
I don't understand why.
It's like this moments like this that I think.
Why the fuck am I here?
Why did you just drive an hour?
What are you talking about now?
You know exactly why you drove an hour, drove an hour.
This is your favorite podcast.
Let's see, what are we doing?
I swear it started.
Tighten this up.
Thank you for the expresso.
Bro, I love your new podcast.
So you had a new format on your show, you're interviewing people just like this.
You got con men coming on there and talking about their stories, you're interviewing them and it's great.
I think it fits you perfectly.
Yeah, it's definitely fun.
It's fun, I mean just talking on camera.
Yeah, it's way better.
It was very weird watching you do like the straight to camera shit.
It's horrible, bro.
Like Graham Stephan, like, hey guys, this is me today, I'm drinking the Starbucks.
It's hard, I mean it's hard to do that.
Like it's hard to, it's just so stupid.
This is just a conversation, it just happens to be that I have to wear these things now.
I'm saying it's not a big deal, like this isn't a big deal.
This is going to dinner.
Yeah, but when you're just talking to yourself and the camera.
Oh, it's just ridiculous.
I'm just waiting in the kitchen or I'm staring at the camera and it's bad.
It was awkward.
You could tell it was very unnatural for you.
Yeah, it's tough.
Where are you getting your guests from?
The people you already know?
Tyler, Tyler gets people and then it's also people I know.
It's people like guys I was locked up with.
My buddy Zach and then I was locked up with this guy, Juan.
And then a buddy of mine knew this bank robber who drove like 10 banks in an armored car
and he was like, bro, you gotta interview this guy.
And I've got a bunch of other people like, what happens is all these criminals know other criminals.
All you have to do is go, hey, do you know anybody that might be, man, do you remember so-and-so?
I know so-and-so and next thing you know, you've got five other people.
And that's what's happening is I'm getting other people lined up to do podcasts,
but it's a problem getting people to come in.
Oh, really?
They don't want to travel, right?
Well, yeah.
What if somebody's in three states away?
I'm not Danny.
I'm not a big shot.
I can't pay 300 bucks for a plane thing and then 150 for a night at a hotel.
I can't do all that.
That's the struggle, bro.
Do it on Skype.
You know, I don't want to do Skype.
You don't want to do Skype.
Skype is horrible.
Oh, it's not a big deal.
It's the worst.
It's the worst.
Some people do only Skype and it's just so fucking weird.
I don't even like, I just turn it off if it's on Skype.
Yeah.
Unless it's like a super rare interview where someone can't come here, somebody like fucking Snowden.
Sean Atwood.
Sean Atwood.
Oh, yeah.
Snowden's clearly not coming.
Snowden.
I had to make, I had to risk it for concrete.
For concrete, yeah.
Thought I could sneak in.
That'd be great in the press conference, right?
Oh, my God.
Could you imagine?
Or McAfee.
McAfee.
McAfee.
McAfee.
How do you say his name?
McAfee.
McAfee.
I haven't said McAfee.
I thought it was McAfee too.
Yeah, it's McAfee.
McAfee.
I'm pretty sure it's McAfee.
I'll try.
McAfee.
Oh, I had some people correct me.
The guys in the comments will tear you apart.
Yeah, they'll let us know.
Did you do a video, you did like a video, like a deep dive explanation on McAfee and his
story, right?
I don't know about deep, but we did have a little bit of a conversation.
My buddy.
What did you find out about him?
What did you do?
What did you do?
I did like four videos, and you know, I'd already, when I was locked up, I read the article
that was in Wired Magazine.
So I already knew who he was, which is pretty cool because a lot of things happen and people
are like, oh, did you hear about so-and-so?
And I'm like, man, I have no idea who that person is, you know, I don't keep up with
any of that stuff.
But this, I actually, as soon as they said it, I knew who he was.
And then I'd watched a couple of videos, I mean, what did I learn?
The guys, my buddy Zach, he's like 100% positive, like, oh, he was killed.
He was killed.
There's no way he wasn't.
But look, unlike Epstein, you know, I know you, the Epstein, he was definitely murdered.
Unlike Epstein, like this part, like the McAfee, man, that's, that's bizarre.
This guy is literally saying, look, these people are out to get me.
They're coming for me.
They've sent me messages.
I'm not going to kill myself.
I'm not suicidal.
I'm perfectly, you know, I'm perfectly sane.
I'm not depressed.
He's saying all these tweets.
He's sending out tweets.
He's sending out messages.
And then as soon as you find out, okay, he's going to be extradited in the United States
within hours, he's found hung in his cell.
So what's your take on it?
What do you think happened?
Well, I mean, first of all, do you think he killed himself or do you think, what do
you think?
You know, I hate to say that.
I hate to say, oh, he didn't because I don't know.
You don't know.
No, this is all speculation.
Right, right.
I hate those guys that rush to judgment.
And it's like, you know, it reminds me of...
Yeah, but that's what podcasts are about.
They're about being Monday morning quarterbacks.
I know, but I hate that.
They're about slinging your ideas, slinging your opinions.
You know what bothers me?
When I grew up...
Whatever you say is a fact, Matt.
It's not a fact.
But look, you know, okay, when I grew up, you guys are probably don't remember this.
This woman sued McDonald's because she spilled her coffee on herself and she won like five
million dollars or something.
Yeah.
Whatever.
Because it burned her or whatever.
Right.
Hello?
I'm a...
I'm fucking real.
I'm doing a podcast right now on concrete.
Oh, okay.
Can I get that?
What's up?
Who is that?
Boziak.
What's up, Boziak?
Boziak.
All right.
Let me give you a call back.
All right.
Bye.
I feel like he calls you every time we're doing a podcast.
Does he?
Did he last time?
Yeah, I think so.
So the woman in McDonald's, this is the reason I feel like this, is the woman in McDonald's,
everybody went nuts.
The media went nuts.
They were like, this is ridiculous.
They're giving her all this money.
They made a snap judgment.
That was the sound bite was she drove through the drive-thru, asked for coffee.
She spilled it on herself.
She sued and got $5 million.
Now, I don't know if it was three and a half.
I don't know.
So I'm just saying five.
And boom, isn't that so ridiculous?
How much did she get?
$3 million.
1992, 80-year-old woman gets $3 million because she got suffered punitive damages for the
burns.
Right.
So here's the thing.
It was dangerously hot.
It was not just hot, but dangerously hot.
Here's the thing.
So you hear that, and that's the media, right?
And you're like, oh, okay.
You're like, that is ridiculous.
Come on, man.
You spilled the coffee.
What's the problem?
Right.
Then you go, okay.
How could a jury find that?
Well, because the jury found that, because the jury got all the facts.
You didn't.
You don't get that off the news.
You don't know what happened.
What really happened is McDonald's over the last 10 years had been telling McDonald's,
you're boiling your coffee and it will cause whatever, third, fourth, fifth degree burns.
People are complaining.
It's too hot and McDonald's is saying, you know, we don't care.
People like it hot.
Is it?
Right.
So here's what happened.
Is it hot?
It's so hot that the, it's so hot- Is it fuck?
It's so hot that the ship, that your cups and everything actually melt, right?
So the tops are popping off.
So some woman, they barely put on the top.
They hand it to her.
It drops in her lap and she has to have skin grafts to do reconstructive surgery on her
vagina.
Oh, fuck.
An 80 year old vagina.
And they, yeah, which is already going to be hard, right?
To deal with.
What's the point?
No one's looking down there anyways.
Let it fucking leave the burn scars.
So anyway, it's better for the settlement if you get the surgery.
I just got to get the surgery.
That surgery, yeah.
It'll be different.
So now you know that McDonald's is known.
This is a problem.
They've been told over and over again.
They've completely, they've completely disregarded it.
This woman gets burned.
Now what do you do?
Now does she deserve to win and a good chunk of money?
Hell yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the punitive damages is it's not necessarily, hey, this is your pain and suffering.
What we're saying is.
What is that sound, bro?
God damn.
It's my phone.
But.
You got this fucking ignorant.
What is that sound?
That's like some old fucking computer.
Oh yeah.
You know what I, it's a, it's a telegraph sound.
Telegraph.
That's what it is.
Yeah.
Is that how they communicated with you in prison?
Sign language.
That was, so that was, so I'm saying, now you look at it and you go, hey, if you had
to have reconstructive surgery on your dick because McDonald's knew the coffee was too
hot and that, and that it was melting the lids.
They were negligent.
Right.
They were negligent.
Now do you think you deserve anything?
And then it's like, oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now I see.
Fucking right.
So, you know, from the media, he was found dead.
I don't know, but here's what I, what, here's what really freaked me out.
So I'm on the internet and everything, I'm watching all these videos about him saying,
look, if I end up dead, like they find my body, he actually tattoos the whacked.
Yeah.
And he's like, I was whacked.
I was killed.
It wasn't suicide.
I'm not suicidal.
I'm doing fine.
I've got friends here.
I'm good.
So then he ends up getting killed and everything on the, on the internet where people are just
being able to report it, they're saying, look, this is insane.
This is crazy.
But when I watched ABC News, it was so benign.
It was like McAfee, what a life he lived.
It was very controversial.
He was implicated in a murder in like a rubour or something, I forget where it was, Belize.
He was implicated in a murder.
He evaded taxes.
He was, he was found, he was indicted for tax evasion.
He was looking, he was possibly going to spend the next 30 years in prison for tax evasion.
He was caught in Spain and they were going to extradite him.
And this is what he tweeted just before, you know, his body was found.
And the tweet was like, I have no more Bitcoin.
I have no more money.
I am something like, you know, I love my family.
I am at peace.
His body was found a week later, you know, hours after.
So they really painted the picture for you.
And I'm thinking to myself, are you serious?
Did you guys just read like, is that the US press release?
You just read?
I mean, if you'd even looked on, if you'd even looked on, on YouTube or anything else
and looked at all this other, you're not even going to mention that he said he wasn't suicidal.
He would never kill himself.
You're not even going to mention that.
Right.
They don't, they completely went with like the party line.
But we all know all that corporate, corporatized media, ABC, NBC, Fox, we all know that's owned
by the government.
They're all embedded with the government.
It was so obvious.
They're not going to go against the government.
Usually it's not normally obvious like that.
Like it's not that, like it was so like, you're, you're literally, it was, it was insane.
But everything, it's the, but that's the complete opposite on the internet though.
Everybody on the fucking internet is saying, oh my God, it's another Epstein, the guy obviously
didn't kill himself.
If you, if you have a brain and you know, you can look up his Twitter account, you can
see all his tweets, see his tattoo, see all that shit.
Everyone was saying that like, there's no way this guy actually killed himself.
Right.
I don't even know how you, here's the problem.
Here's what my problem is.
I don't even know how you kill yourself in a cell like that.
It's like, like, it's, it's, but he wasn't really in a cell, was he?
He was like, he was live streaming on the internet every day.
He was, he was tweeting and, and no, he was still, he was doing podcasts.
Not from.
Yeah, bro.
He had access to like a podcast studio.
There was a podcast he did like a month before that.
I think there, there's video of him on Twitter every fucking five minutes.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not sure how the, like to me, I think it's very possible that he obviously
had access to some kind of computer and he's tweeting or maybe a phone.
I don't know.
Spanish prisons are not at the level he was at.
They're not, they're, these are not harsh places.
You know what I mean?
These are not harsh prisons.
Right.
And they always make it sound like he's going to do 30 years.
You know, he's 75 years old.
He's going to do 30 years in prison.
What do you mean?
So the history, he's going to, he's probably going to do three or four years in prison.
Maybe five years in prison.
No, if he goes to the U S and he, he, he, he's extradited the U S he's doing 30 easily
in 30.
Just for tax evasion.
Tax evasion?
Crucify.
No, you do the cross, bro.
You do a couple of years.
Okay.
What?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
You do a couple of years.
You'll do a few years.
This isn't just tax evasion.
This guy said straight up, fuck you.
I'm not paying tax.
I understand.
But here's the differences.
They might just stick it to you for that.
They'll say, let's say they say $20 million in tax evasion.
Do you understand they're saying you didn't pay taxes on $20 million.
Okay.
So what do I owe you?
Six.
Okay.
Well, we'll make a deal.
I'll pay you the six.
I'll do five years in prison.
I'm out in three because I can take the drug program.
I'm probably two and a half or probably in a halfway house.
I do two and a half years.
They're going to include the time that he spent while incarcerated already while he
was incarcerated in Spain.
So by the time you get here, you're looking at a year and a half to two years and you're
out and I pay the six million.
So he's not doing, look, they said I was facing 154 years.
I was never facing 100.
Yeah.
If I went to trial and they stacked it, is it possible?
I mean, yeah.
See if you can pull up any sort of like recent tax evasion case, like federal tax evasion,
prison sentence from anybody.
Because I've never been in prison and met people for tax evasion.
We need the internet.
So, okay.
The history of John McAfee is throughout the eighties and nineties, right?
He was living large.
At some point, I think it was in the nineties, he sold his part of McAfee antivirus to Microsoft.
He got a hundred million when he should have got billions and years later, it was worth
a ton more.
Right.
Right.
And he was a nut.
He was a nut.
His dad committed suicide.
His dad was an alcoholic.
He was obviously boozing, doing tons of coke.
He was doing all kinds of drugs.
The guy was by no means sane.
I don't think you can call him sane.
Have you watched any of his interviews?
No, no.
He's a cuckoo.
He's absolutely nutty.
Any all kinds of drugs.
And a lot of people say he's a fucking egomaniac on top of it.
Yeah.
He's definitely narcissistic.
If you're him and it's, and it's 2000...
Narcissists don't kill themselves.
I'm never.
I'm not killing myself.
There's no way.
I'm taking out everybody else I can take out first.
That's a good point.
That's a good point.
Yeah, that is a good take on that.
It is hardly ever happened.
Sorry, but go ahead.
So, I'm saying the guy's, he's obviously a fucking egomaniac, and he had a problem
with drugs.
Problem of drugs and alcohol and he was a little fucking loopy more than a little loopy right just judging by his Twitter
So if I'm John McAfee, and I'm I am depressed, and I am considering suicide. Why not just fuck with everybody?
Three and a half years with three to five. That's it three and a half three to five. Okay. I thought it would be way worse
I thought they'd try to make an example out of you and try to like pin you to 20 years
I mean if you go to trial. Yeah, can you get 30 years? Yeah, you can right nobody takes that nobody's going
Look if you're if you're just blatantly guilty, right? Especially when you're others just saying I'm not paying
But he did some other scammy shit he pulled he pulled some Bitcoin scams
He tried he did some Bitcoin pump-and-dumps where he tried to like ask like like pump the price a bit
But they hadn't I don't think that's not I think he was indicted for tax evasion though
It was only that only tax evasion like they may have superseded Alex Jones said he was a spy
Alex Jones said that he was a spy for a bunch of other countries and do not kinds of crazy shit
Anyways, my what I was getting to about about his personality and his cookiness and his drug abuse shit like that
Right, if I'm him and I do
Want to kill myself
Why not fucking go crazy and try to fuck with the war try to fuck with the internet and just make some sort of crazy
Legacy for myself and say hmm. Maybe I do want if I do want to kill myself
Maybe I'll fucking tattoo on myself whacked and make the whole world think when I go out that I got whacked by the feds I
Mean yes, why not just try to troll people and make some sort of legacy out of it
You know, I mean why try to fuck with people because do the fed like how much do they give a fuck about John McPhee?
How much do they really give a fuck a guy who committed tax evasion and did some Bitcoin pump-and-dumps?
Maybe he's got some info. I mean, I mean he yeah, that was the other thing. He said he had all this
Was it three terabytes or something? Whatever it was megabytes or whatever?
Yeah info on corruption and so what no first of all that that that part didn't even like phase me
It's like oh come on stop. Yeah, there's this thing. There's this thing called a like he's like he's Raymond Reddington from the black list
Like it's got like I'm gonna expose the cabal
What's the term there's a term for people who?
who it's like a I
Forget what the fucking word is but it's basically like a term for like when a suicide bomber
Like you like a suicide bomber comes in and if someone shoots you you let go of the trigger and you everyone
Oh, it's a dead man switch a dead man switch. Yes a dead man switch
So that's like what he what he kind of had a dead man switch
So if he got if he got a bullet if he got killed the switch would go off and all of the info all the shit that he would have
Everyone would get released right where is it right exactly? That's what they say about Epstein, too
Like why wouldn't he have a dead man switch?
because he wasn't he didn't have anything and he
Killed himself
Epstein I think I think I think no Epstein. You don't think Epstein had anything come on
Where is it? I think he killed himself Epstein
I just can't imagine that you could get into a federal print like a lot of guys are like this look so I
Like Zach was telling we were arguing
And it was the argument was
He was saying well
Why not just wait till he gets back here right and kill them back here because it's easier to get to him
In a Spanish prison and then there's an investigation in a Spanish prison
And how much do they give a crap about some American that died in Spanish prison you get him back here
How are you gonna get into the Marshall's holdover? Mm-hmm? It's difficult
This is these things are inside of pens in there. It's not it's it's not it's difficult
What does he say John McAfee tweeted before his death that he stored computer files in a Florida condo building that later
What scroll down a little bit that later collapsed what this I've heard this one. I is that real?
This is this I think this is false news because it's on politifact that means it's a fact
The name of this website has the word fact in it. Hey, yeah, it's clearly true. It's undisputable
Does it mean that?
conspiracy theories escalated quickly around the death of technology
Entrepreneur John McAfee in a Barcelona prison where he was waiting extradition to the US on tax evasion charges
Spain's L. Paris L. Payette L. Pius newspaper reported the McAfee who developed the first commercial antivirus software
blah blah blah blah blah
Keep going
Keep going. Oh Q on he posted it
Scroll up a little bit and see the Q and on a June 25 Instagram post appeared to link McAfee's death to June
23 with another major news event the collapse of a condominium building near Miami the next day what the next day
Huh, yeah, so did you see the thing at the top look great? Stop stop stop see where it says Q and on
Right but rumors linked to the baseless Q and on conspiracy theory
Whose followers believe what?
Democrat celebrities were involved in an underground child trafficking race just oh, yeah, yeah, yeah
Covered by Q and on often see I don't know you know what the collapse of the building remind
So it's a Q and on theory that he hid the hid the files in that building. Yeah, good. Listen. Listen. Okay, so when I was locked up in and
Yeah, I was in the medium when I was in the medium at Coleman, so I worked with this guy
Every day for a year
Talk to him at least you know five minutes here, you know like any worker. I worked in the library at one point
So I taught real estate classes. I worked in the library and then another point
I taught GED but for like a year or so. I've worked in the library. So I see this guy all the time. He's like the head librarian
Nice guy. We're always talking we talked a little about this little bit at that politics what's going on because at that time
I would watch the news and everything
Totally normal guy everything was super normal talked about movies everything guys normal
one day I
Happened to say so you're still what you're still working on your case. He's like he looked at me goes. Yeah
Yeah, but uh after Oklahoma City, I just don't know. I don't know what I'm gonna be able to do
I mean, I can't get the these the the evidence is destroyed and I went Oklahoma City and he looked at me and he goes
Timothy McVeigh and Oklahoma City, you know the Oklahoma City. Yeah, of course and I went
What does that have to do with your case like this guy knew this guy had been locked up like 20 years away before Oklahoma City
Yeah, and he said the FBI
Was storing the evidence in my trial at at the field office in Oklahoma City
And I said I thought you're you were prosecuted out of Orlando and he's like I was but that's where they were storing the files
By the way, that's absolutely not true. That's not where your story your files are stored. Yeah, okay
There is no storage in a field office in Oklahoma City
All right, they're stored at the US Attorney's Office or at the FBI at the field office where you're being prosecuted out of which he wasn't
You ever been to Oklahoma City? No. Why were they stored there? Exactly?
Exactly, so he was they they he was they bombed
the the
FBI field office and took the building down to destroy my evidence his evidence his evidence
So they killed like 30 some odd kids a bunch of FBI agents a whole bunch of other people working in the building
They framed Timothy McVeigh all to destroy your evidence to keep you in prison because you got 30 years
You've already done 20 of it. You got five left. This guy always seemed normal for a year
Well, how do you know maybe maybe his files were stored there? How do you know? How do you know they weren't insane?
They are not I said he was normal up to the point. He said this one thing
He had this look you could talk to Frank Amadeo and have a great conversation with it with him until and just happen
You could do it for a year and then one day you happen upon something and he starts telling you about how he's gonna
Take over the world some of these guys have these little tiny little it's this little dark dark room
Somewhere in their head and one day you're opening up doors and you open that one door and you find out
The guys and fucking nuts get that one little quick. That's these the QAnon guys
There isn't there a conspiracy. There is an FBI. I don't I don't know anything about it
But there is a conspiracy about about the Oklahoma City bombing right except for the fact that when they
Talked to Timothy McVeigh. He laid out exactly what he did. He didn't say I was hired. I was framed
He was saying he's like yeah, this is what I did. I was I was I was all I was yeah because they fucking brainwashed him with MK
Ultra, okay, let's move on
Same they fucking brainwash using part of QAnon
Listen, I live in half the guys on look, I'm spitting facts, okay?
Our art you can quote me you can fact check everything I say
I told you about that I would tell you about the one guy that had that told me this is after Trump had
after Trump had
Had lost he was about to step down and I this guy sent me an email saying look I have
Evidence of government corruption and this and this and this and so these guys will say this kind of stuff
And I and if they're persistent enough and they you know, they sound credible
This guy seemed kind of credible like it's like it's worth a phone call. It's like alright
Here's my cell number. Shoot me an email or
Me I'll talk to you at this time. I talked to him
He was telling me about how Trump was working
Was it was it working with the military? I forget who he was. Oh and China and that they were about to bomb
No, China was gonna bomb some facility that was under like Mount Rushmore and they were going to collapse the entire
Oh
The our entire economy and we were doing that and he's like Trump's been working with him the whole time and he goes on and on and on
And I'm listening to I mean, he's just nuts and I'm listening to him and I went bro you
You do understand that
after tomorrow
Trump's no longer president. He's like that's what they want you to believe bro. Oh, he's gonna when this happens
Oh, no, he's still president. He's gonna be president
Nah, bro. I'm pretty sure
The guy was and honestly like I didn't at now when these guys call
Like when they say crazy shit in the comment section now. I'm like email me, bro. We got to get you on the podcast
Yeah, yeah, I need to talk to you this crazy fucker like right, right this podcast has turned me into a conspiracy theorist
Oh, I'll bet
The motherfuckers I get on here are fucking wigging my bar changing the way my brain was
Convincing and you know, you can manipulate facts
You can tweak it here and tweak it here to shift it one way or the other the media does it all the time
But you get somebody who's really good you can man. You can really twist twist up some stories
Yeah, I don't know I kind of miss Trump now that he's not in office
He was fucking phenomenal entertainment. He was great for media great for the internet
There was a headline every single fucking day about him
Oh, now it's like I miss him. I truly miss him. Listen. It's sad watching Biden
It really is like I feel bad like I'm like pathetic God
I hope there's no major decisions that have to be made like this is this is bad. It's fucking pathetic, bro
Just watching did you watch his coronavirus speech here today? No, I can't watch everybody
I'm begging you get vaccinated and now they're saying they're gonna come to your doors and vaccinate you
They're gonna go door-to-door like the fucking consensus thing. Have you been vaccinated?
No, no, he ain't getting backed me neither. Me neither. We're none of us are getting back. I'm not doing it
They're not implement. They're not implanting those chips in me
Yeah, Hulk Hogan told me all I need to do is say my prayers and take my vitamins
So that's what I'm doing. Was it Hulk Hogan or Joe Rogan? I don't know. I think it was Hulk Hogan
Same thing good time
I
Love your truck. You think he's gonna be president in 2024
Listen, would that be hilarious? I would love it. I wish I would nobody's ever done that before I fuckin
I know right. Well, are you sure?
No, I don't think ever anybody's ever been in a term left for a term and then come back for another no
I don't think it has either
Yeah, we have to look at that somebody's smarter than us. I'm pretty I'm pretty sure that's true
Yeah, yeah, the Trump's good. Did you see Tucker Tucker Carlson?
So we're sold one of the Trumps. Did you really have three go get it?
Show it to us. Let me see what that fucker looks like. Well, the one that sold is sold. Well, you got two right there
Okay
You wanted me to go. You wanted me to walk off with the headphones on
Yeah, Austin will get it. Oh, no Austin changing the battery. You can get it get the get the Trump first
You were that's what you were playing and that was the plan. That's like when someone's holding holding a glass. Look at that beauty. Grab it
Yeah, ah
Yeah, hold it. You gotta hold on that side of you. What's that?
Basically where your head was before there you go. Boom
Trump 2024 are you selling this year on your website?
No
You have to email me or go to my website and get my email
website no you can go to
No, no, you go to my YouTube channel my YouTube channel. I got a plug the YouTube champ
Would be what is it inside true crime Matt Cox? Yes, it's Matt Cox or inside true crime. It'll show up
So explain to me. What was your process in creating this picture?
Well explain to me your creative process for this. I
Used to pretend it looks like it was printed fucking printer. No, no, it's a it's a screen. It's a screen print
Then I go back and I paint in I paint over the screen print then I screen print it again to get the little dots
Because I like the little dot. What's the word? What's the term for that the little dots?
I just little dots. Um, I don't know. Isn't there an artistic term. Don't you have a fine arts degree?
He's just mean. I mean, I just I don't know. What is it? I don't know. It's pointillism, but it's not pointillism
There you go pointillism
Yeah, yeah, oh, it's basically this is it's called a modified screen print. It's where you're using
You know, it's like I love how you did the sides to the side how you painted the sides paint the side
That's that's fucking dope. I even threw a star in there
wrap the stars
His mom or grandma would pay top dollar for that thing right there. Mm-hmm
So would my dad probably would love it too tell people love Trump people do love you know what I was thinking about doing
He's fun. He was fun. What I like that one's cool, too. I like that one. It's kind of like a burgundy background
Merlot Merlot. Yeah, Merlot the Marilyn Monroe's so I've already got three Marilyn Monroe
I did like five Marilyn Monroe's three of them are sold already. Would you do a Charles Manson?
I could do a Charles Manson then you would have the Manson and the Marilyn and the Manson. Mm-hmm
So it's just so corny you're gonna you're we can send them to Marilyn Manson
You make a great dad. That's what you've got. You always tell us the dad jokes, right? They're corny dad. Yeah. Oh
My gosh
So people you're selling these these things on your website or on your you just got an email you need to solve
Yeah, you just email me how much what where they go for I
285 and that mean and I mail them to you for that. Oh really include shipping then include shipping and I like a person
I know or something. I mean if somebody were already signed in Mexico mcox. Yeah, I sign them
You know if somebody said hey, can you sign the back or something or whatever? I don't care
Mm-hmm. I even got special boxes that fit them perfectly. I mean, it's it's nice
I got it down and I've the bubble gum girl one like I've sold a bunch of those
Really, yeah, but yeah, yeah, Rob zombie one and then the um, I've started selling the the screamer
Yeah, where the guy's screaming. Yeah, I love the one. What about the special one the really oh my god
All right, so I do get guys and this is it is it is weird. It's really gay
I knew he's gonna say yeah
Listen there listen guys ask me all the time, bro. I want a portrait
I'm like of who and they're like of you and I'm like
I don't know, you know, I haven't done one. I think you know what I'll do
I'll just do a screen print. I'll screen print them and then I can paint them in and do whatever and I'll throw some
Sharks in there and then that'll be it. I can knock those out and I'll sell them for the same thing
Mm-hmm. What are you doing? Why are you laughing cuz it's just funny like you someone's I want to say
So you say I want a portrait and that and this is what you come up. This is what I came up with and Danny hates it
Let's see it. I don't hate it. I we don't care about I think it's fucking beautiful. I think it's not you just you give me our time
Hilarious, okay, it is fucking comical
Awesome. It's got it, but it's great. I love it. I'm not hating on it
It's interesting it's interesting
So this is Matt's self-portrait
Yeah, oh
My what do you call that that look you're doing right there? What's that face? That's me messing with my iPhone camera
That was it that's like hey, what's up, baby? Do not make that face in prison
All right, come on man, what's going on? How much is that one?
How did you take that photo? It was my my iPhone. I put it on on a stand and I was taking pictures and
That was one of I took a bunch of pictures and I looked at that when I said I like that when I sent it to a couple of people and
They were like, yeah, that's good. I mean, I'm trying to you send a couple of those out. No, no just the photo
Oh, I got you. That's um, and that was it
How much does that one go for that's at least five hundred?
No way that was double that's 499 free shipping all day
Anyway, I
Guess I should have sent it Danny first. Yeah, you sent to me a while ago. You're gonna make it an NFT. Yeah
Yeah, we're gonna make it an NFT
Man, I can't get enough of that painting. I want to put that on my wall. Yeah, you I could see that in your house
We need to do a concrete one of these for concrete
I could knock it out over and over and I asked Danny about that. I said, yeah, Danny
I'll do you know I don't want to be on it
For me just do some K's in the background a bunch of K's who you're gonna put on it. If not you
Why would a K pattern put you with the microphone? You know, I don't want that. What why is everything gay?
I don't know. You're probably you listen to this. There's probably a large percentage of your of your viewers are gay
That's fine. I'm gonna get canceled my podcast. I'm gonna get shadow band because I said the word. What is shadow band?
Is that a real thing? Yeah, I've got shadow band last week on our episode YouTube
What does that mean? It means they take your shit off search if you search for it doesn't propagate at all in search
Yeah, I have a couple of season anywhere just saying shadow band probably just got you shadow, right?
Okay, so this doesn't do well. It's not my fault. Yeah, it sucks. It happened to me
What episode what was it on I did an episode a week ago. What was it? Oh, it was
No, it was a guy. It was Tom O'Neill. He wrote a book about Charles Manson
He spent 20 years
Investigating the Manson murders and basically found all these holes in the why would that be shadow by so the tide
I went to I think I went a little too crazy with the title read you the title
I well, I didn't have to I tweeted at YouTube and I asked I asked YouTube
I said, hey, what's the deal of my why is this episode not appearing anywhere on search?
You can search for the literal exact title of the episode and it doesn't appear on search
It gets impossible to find it unless you actually go to the channel
You know go under videos you'll see it there and they said oh it probably got flagged in our system
which means it's invisible on search and
Then the next morning it was back up. It was visible. So it's a thing they do
I mean, it's a real thing. It's a real thing. Yeah, so the title of the video was something like
the CIA's
secret program
To brainwash people with or how the CIA brainwashed Charles Manson with LSD
Basically, it was something like that and I guess that triggered their system much they took it off search
But that's crazy, isn't it? It's fucking crazy that they they do that
That they they have something that will literally take your shit and make it invisible to people
That's not crazy to me. Well. No. No, why?
Why wouldn't they do that? They own the fucking platform do whatever they want. Okay?
They have people they got to protect and here's the problem. Yeah, well the CIA. Yeah
Probably you think the CIA doesn't use YouTube's information for fucking Intel and stuff. I'm sure they're
I think they a hundred percent can use right YouTube's information
But that goes against fucking whatever amendment the free speech amendment. That's what I was just gonna say
It's like a lot of people would argue. Hey, well, it's a private company. They can do whatever they want
But when you become so large that you become a part of like the social fabric then you you get to that point where you go
Okay, well, wait a minute. You're you're a monopoly now. So
People don't really have an alternative
That's as widely used and this is a massive massive platform like nobody else is there you say, oh, yeah, you can use red
It you can use no, you can't it's nothing's like YouTube. It's massive. So at that point you kind of
Have to start abiding by like the rules. You know, it's like a new
You're saying what they're saying is no it's ours. We own it. No, no, no
You know, you have to start abiding by you know, like the Constitution at that point
There comes a point where you're so large
But you're like a town square, right? You're a monopoly you can't because now you can actually start swaying things
You can start
Sensoring that real. Do you have to do that? I mean you do I think you get to that point. It's kind of like a
Well, there's no law saying that no, they're there. That's what I mean. They are monopoly
I mean, yes and yes and no look at look at Microsoft like back in the in the 80s when Microsoft came out. They started saying
Microsoft started saying hey, listen. Oh, you're a small you're a small
You're a small software store that sells software. Great. Yeah, we want to sell your windows. Okay, here
Here's our windows. So you can sell our windows, but we also need a percentage of everything else your store selling. Hmm
What
Yeah, so you're so here's the problem is that they were they were getting they were doing that
Well, that that becomes illegal because you become basically you're almost it's almost like racketeering and if that
Their whole thing was well, they don't have to sell our product. Yeah, but if they don't they go under right because it's the main
Product that's being sold out there everywhere
So you're basically saying you can go under or you can give me a portion of your business and people are doing it
Well, they launched this massive investigation. That's back when they were talking about breaking up Microsoft like this thing is too big
We're gonna have to break it apart
And and you know, they fought it and they obviously they didn't but then they stopped doing that also
They said okay, we'll stop this practice and this practice in this practice. It's really scary
It's really scary, especially if you're on your own you're independent somebody who's creating your own stuff
And this is how you pay your bills
This is how you make a living off of making these videos and posting shit on YouTube, right?
Because you have to literally you're constantly worried about these boundaries that you have to stay within like there's guys
There's YouTube channels with guys like specifically talk about guns and firearms and like the second amendment
And all this stuff and they know they just take it away
Well, these guys have tons of followers tons of subscribers, but they're demonetized
So YouTube can choose the type of content to make they'll make it unprofitable like they can literally choose to make certain topics
Unprofitable for people to talk about which takes away their incentive to talk about these sort of things right on their platform
Which is crazy which influences the culture of everything. Yeah, I'm absolutely agree with that. I mean look look
That's the spider-man quote with great power comes great responsibility
You don't remember that oh, yeah, okay, so I think that's true. You know, I think that's true
Mm-hmm, you know, I mean imagine being fucking Trump bro fucking kicked off Twitter kicked off YouTube Facebook everything
now
What else are we talking about wait? Oh, wait
No, it's it's fucking. I mean, it's it's we're not gonna solve it. It's fucking it's incredibly
Scary, bro
Yeah, yeah, you have to stay very kind of vanilla and you can and the other thing is is those people
They're not gonna talk to you like they're not gonna you think that you can just send them an email or make a phone call and say
Hey, can we work on this? Can can we work something out? Let's let's you know
I'll promise to behave from now on and follow your rules. No, they don't you're you're done
They could suspend you for whatever the fuck they please if they don't like what you're talking about
Or if they think that it could be even by accident that you get flagged for something or like a troll flags your video for something
That they don't like
Yeah, Boziak got a video taken down when are demonetized or was it taken down or because in the process of it
He talked about how he got a like an upper respiratory infection from wearing masks
Mm-hmm and that he went to the doctor and the doctor was like well how often how many masks you have he's like
I don't know one or two. He's like
Do you how often do you wash them? He's like
I don't know barely ever he's like how long have you worn that was like I've worn this one for like a week
He's like they were like that's a problem. We're getting more and more of these infections
So during the conversation talking about the infection. He's like, I'm sick of these masks. I'm sick of them
Boom what happened to it the video. Yeah, I don't know if it got. Oh, yeah, it got taken down
They took no that was it it was a strike whatever it was a strike
Strike on his channel for saying that he's sick of the masks
Yeah, yeah, it was a strike. It wasn't like a copyright strike, right?
It was some other kind of strike and I said did you fight it?
Did you because if they watched the video is like no man
I was I don't know what to do like what am I supposed to do?
He's like it doesn't matter. It was a five-minute video. You know, he's like, I don't care. It's fine
But yeah, it was just because he happened in the course of it just said this and he was really only saying that he was just
You know, it's tired straight. He's not saying he's not telling people not
But they struck it immediately. Yeah, it's crazy. They do that to a lot of people
They do it to legitimate doctors that go on YouTube and talk about their studies on the coronavirus
So they talk about their patients who have had
Covid and what they think the sign or what their opinion is or what their research says about the science or whatever
And if it goes against like an official the official narrative
Done YouTube it's done. So there's no
There's no
Area for conversation about it. There's no area
There's no room for nuance in anything as long as if it's against the official narrative
YouTube will strike you and demonetize you and ruin your ability to profit off of whatever you're talking about
Or even ban you from you to a little correction. It's just a little correction
Like having a shock collar on yeah, it's crazy little don't go out of the yard
Exactly don't go out. You want to get zapped up?
Jess said to say hi. She said
Say hi to Danny and hat rack is what she said. Hey Jess. What's up? I
Can't show you cuz she's hit me kind of a let's see an audio picture. Um, yeah, hey Danny. Hey hat rack. So
All right
So Jess is back. Oh, yeah, yeah, she's back for yeah for now. We know who knows who knows how long
That chick
drains me
What do you say? Oh
Yeah, yeah, but that was they're back and forth listen
I saw her that the two weeks after or two or three weeks after we broke up
I saw her more than I did for the three months prior to that
When you're together or she and listen furious when she
When something happened and I was like, yeah, well, you know, and she's look I understand you're gonna be dating
But and I was like well, I mean I've already been on
I've already been on a couple of dates and she was like
Couple dates use it's been a week. I was like it's been like a month and she's like
It's are you see? I mean she just went nuts in that at that point triggered it
Spinning the night that night and not next night. Oh, yeah, she wants to make sure you're not going on no more fucking dates
What's going on? I mean, you knew this was gonna happen. It's like, I mean you couldn't wait a little bit
What are you doing? There's no grace period. Yeah, I mean we break up on Monday. I'm on a I'm on a couple
I'm on tinder on Tuesday. I'm Tuesday. I'm hoping I'm lining shit up for Thursday and Friday
Don't get don't get crazy. That must be a lot of work having to go on tinder and go on those dating sites
To try to find bitches find pussy on there a lot. It's a lot quicker than go into a bar
Yeah, you don't like going to bars, right? No, everybody's his height your height
No, I can't deal with guys five foot ten
Huge disadvantage huge. I can't deal with that. No, no, you're just going tinder. Let him know right off the rip five
Yeah, exactly
Nice fight to I caught that you just just immediately you just you any any of the ones that are like
Oh, it's gotta be and gotta be five foot eight or taller done done left. What is your height on tinder?
What did you put your high five seven with a good pair of shoes?
That's what is it is it really say that I do say
Hell yeah, does it say with a good pair of shoes? No, you can't put that I just say five seven
Pointing and the thing like they're not good. Listen if they're gonna end up with me
They're gonna be disappointed at some point at some point
I'm telling you I'm not six two
You know just working with what I got
You know, so I make up for it with you know enthusiasm
Mmm. Yeah, your personality makes up for the height difference man
You have a great personality my boyfriend may be five set about five three, but he's got a great personality
That's not mean. Um, you're very charismatic people love you Matt
Mm-hmm. Oh
There
Yeah, I'm like Tom negotiating with these guys for a podcast to do a podcast a true crime podcast
You already have a true crime podcast. No, no like one that's like heavily
You know produced like a one that's on you know like a
Wondery or you know like like a cereal exactly exactly music
Of course interviews, but you know, it's done right right right. Who are you negotiating with?
Big tech. No, no, it's a little bit everywhere productions. They're out of LA
And I've been talking to these talking to the guys and they're they're super cool
There's this guy Dan and we so did you sign a shopping agreement? No, we haven't done it
We've just been going back and forth with with the law with his lawyers right now
You know how many motherfuckers I've talked to in the past month who are who talk tell me about shopping agreements therein
Oh, yeah, I got a shopping agreement. That means that like I got a shopping agreement. Yeah, I'm gonna quit my job next week
I got a shopping agreement. I'm gonna be on Netflix. Don't quit your job
My literary agent called me or sent me an email and then we talked on the phone. Um
Yesterday, I think was yesterday and he was like, look, I've got these guys. They produce this they produce that they want to
They want to option the rights to your story and I was like wait my personal story and they're like, yeah
Your personal story. They're this they've got a Netflix thing and Netflix and I'm like, uh-huh
And you know, I could tell he he was like I didn't could tell it
I wasn't you know, all excited about it because because I've been through it over and over. It's like, you know
I've talked to maybe three or four of these people a month and it's always the same thing
We're ready to go. We have a production company. We've got to deal with these people and these people
We're gonna these people are in with this. We have a first look deal with Sony
We've got a first look deal with the so-and-so. We've produced this we put you can look at my IBM or IMB or whatever the hell that thing is
You know, you know you good IMDB IMDB and you know, and you're right does look pretty good
By the way, anybody can put one of those up, but you know, yeah, it looks it looks good
You they tell how they're connected with all these different things and it's huge and it's massive and we're ready to go
I wouldn't be shocked if we weren't in production within 90 days. We've got a meeting scheduled next week
We're ready to go. We just need to go ahead and sign this up sign the option and we'll go ahead and get going and and and
Yeah, I notice your option says 18 months with an extra six months
Automatic extension if you need it, right, right? Well, yeah, that's standard actually it's really not standard
And and well, I mean obviously we need that. Why do you need that? You have a meeting next week
You would be would be shocked if we weren't in production in 90 days. Why am I signing an 18 month agreement?
Well, that's just the standard. It's not standard. Stop saying it's standard. There's no standard
That's not standard and but they are all they are it's always 18 months with an extra three months or 18 months with an extra nine months
18s with six bikes. It's always they're trying to get 18 months. But what they really do is this
You sign one you sign one you sign you've got a true crime story about fraud
You've got one about murder this guy's had a some crappy novel that came out
But it's an interesting kind of story and so we've got an an option agreement with him for 18 months
And they put them on shelf and then when they get the Netflix meeting they go in and they pitch
Right it well, they can say we're pitching shark in the housing pool and they're like man
That's amazing. What else do you have? Well?
We also have this so you're one of a bunch of people that they've got but they're not really pushing just you
Yeah, they make it sound like the it's a movie about you. What are you talking about?
They're they're already talking to they're already talking to cast members, right?
They're not sure who's gonna play you is it gonna be so and so we're so and so we're it's all our whole team is ready to go
But I need 18 months
You know, we're talking about a 40 million dollar movie here. Really? Yeah, but you can't give me 20 grand for my option
Yeah, they sell you they like to sell you this pipe dream like that
You're gonna get some crazy deal and you're something special, but in reality, it's not it's really like just like the biggest scam brokers
Yeah, they're all just brokers
They're hoping to get you locked in so they can sell that you notice it's like flipping contracts for for real estate
Yes, sign them up for 90 days and then run around and try and sell the property so you can make the difference
And that's all they're doing, but it's like, you know, look, you know, you don't con me
Okay, just not this work. Okay, you don't screw me. You're right screw you over that how this works
Like what are you doing? What are you thinking? It's not gonna happen
And and so it's so funny because I have signed a few options, but they've always been like
60 day or sorry like 90 days or six months
Yeah, you can negotiate right and then they're always cutouts
So I do this cut out and that cut it by the time it's all the way down
It's like good. Look, you've got like you have six months to get me a deal to be the host of a show that talks about
true crime
Anything else is is off the table and they're just like
Well, what if what wait a minute if you come in there some some slight alteration?
Obviously, we'll we'll discuss it at that time. I mean, I'm not stupid
What if we I get to the the end of the six months?
So you you're telling me you're negotiating a multi-million deal and then the six months I go up your head
Come on, man. I'm not gonna do that. I'm obviously you're in there got no negotiations
What am I gonna say stop talking to him talk to me now? Come on some professional. Obviously, I'm gonna give you an extension
You know, you have to trust me those motherfuckers are greedy, bro
They want to lock you up. Absolutely. This is the thing too. They they keep saying well, you're gonna have to trust me
No, no
You're gonna have to trust me like if you want me to trust you to represent me
You're gonna have to trust that I'll give you the extension and you're gonna have to trust it eight
You know in 18 months is too much like stop, you know, most people get so excited
They just signed and then three months later. They're calling the guys not responding to their calls. Maybe
16 months later, they call you up and go look we pitched your story the other day and you're going who's this? Yeah
You know, oh remember you signed the deal. Yeah, bro. I've left like 16 20 messages. I've been real busy for a year
You know, it's just ridiculous, man, you know, there's such scumbags
It's such a joke, man, right? I know that's why you so fucking slimy and they're so fucking
They're all liars and they're all remember the first time we went we went to like the first night
I did did concrete and we went to um waffle house. Oh
He was he I listen after listening to him for a 30 minute
Hates Hollywood like hate see a stop. I'm like, well, I'm trying to get a true crime
I'm telling you this and he's like fuck them man. They're scumbags. They're this they're that I'm think I
Well, oh, you were go you were going pretty bad. Maybe not scumbag
You were you were like you were like nah, man, listen there you need to just do it forget them
Then they're gonna tell you this and tell you this you need to do it
You're what I'm sitting there. Well, you can do it. You can do it, but don't wait for them
Don't wait for right do your shit because those motherfuckers are the ones it's so backwards
Those are the people that are on their fucking computers
Scouring podcasts for TV show ideas that they can sell right what you know and flip to Netflix
And I should have listened to Danny that first night because here's what happened
I was working with someone that continually kept saying
Don't do anything on your own because that could ruin the deal that I'm working on right now. I'm working on this
I'm working on that. I'm and he was what dumbass told you that I don't want to say his name
But the point is he knows who he is so the point is and we are we're having zoom meetings
And we're having me they're about to fly me out to LA and I've been out to LA
I've I met with with these with production companies and so things were happening, but it was always don't do anything
Don't do anything. Don't do just and you know, I'm not even sure about the podcast you going on that concrete podcast
I mean, you know, you tie you told your whole story. I'm like, well, there's a book out
You know, so I'm like, I'm trying to sell my book. I have a book
Yes, you know, I will salesman and he's going on and on and he meant well
But I'm saying you were right like the moment I started going. Yeah, I'm not waiting anymore
It's just stupid Danny was telling me go just start doing it just start doing I was like no no no like if I just started
At that point, I'd be a year at least a year maybe a year and a half ahead of where I am right now
Instead of having like 30,000 subscribers on my channel. I'd have probably have a hundred thousand
I'd probably be paying all my bills and everything
But I didn't get waiting because I kept waiting for like the big Hollywood deal, right?
Let me ask this stream. It's it's it's so it's so easy. It's so simple to understand
Do you think Joe Rogan would have got a hundred million dollars from Shopify if he would have waited? Yeah, no, right?
Obviously, that's not a stream example. That's what I said spotify. Oh, there's a shop. Yeah. I might have said Shopify
I know shoot me tomato tomato. So yeah
Yeah, absolutely like and it's it's funny too because I whenever friends are like I want to start YouTube here mom
I do it just do it start doing it with your iPhone start this I do the same say the same thing
Yeah, just do it just and they're like, yeah, but I want to be good. I'm like, don't you understand? Fuck this
This is what you didn't tell me
do it and
Do it as bad as as good as you can even though it's could probably gonna be pretty bad because it really doesn't matter because
Nobody's watching. Mm-hmm. Nobody's watching it. So don't worry about it
You got three subscribers and those are two of them live in your house
Yeah, at least make at least make a couple bucks while you practice, right, right?
Just just yeah, just put them out there because it starts the process of getting the subscribers and getting the watch hours
So starting crappy and then guess what leave them up because two years from now or four years from now when your channel is doing great
And it's making money. You can look back on the very first videos you put out and go
And you'll laugh about it it's better to have it out there
Yeah, I'm so embarrassed of our first podcast. They're so fucking awful
How are they still up? I'm still dumb as hell, but I was so much dumber two years ago
It's incredible how dumb I am I
I'm gonna jump in and
It's not that incredible the moment the moment I disagree with it amazes me how dumb I am
But yeah, it's so true. I want to stop you
Haha
Yeah, yeah, what's so
How what do you mean aren't on your first ones like you've had you've been doing these for years three years, right?
Almost three years. I think it's about it'll be three years. I think the this like August
Who's the first person Ben Ben the first the first the first two the first two or three the first like four podcasts
We're all with Ben and then we started having guests with Ben
Mm-hmm, and then the one that was like in your kitchen or it was it no you
Then had he bought this fucking mansion in
Downtown Clearwater that used to be owned by some fucking millionaire
Scientologist and the basement was an auditing room. So you know where they do you know what auditing is in Scientology, right?
Oh, oh, oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I know what that is. So I thought you meant artist
I thought you meant they were a CPA
No, it's what they hook you up to the electronic machine and then you tell all your fucking deepest secrets or whatever
So it was basically like a sound sound studio. It was all sound proof and everything. It's already pretty
Yeah, it was already a studio and before before it was owned by the Scientologist
It was owned by somebody that was related to the Presley's what like one of the Presley's daughters
Lisa Marie Presley Lisa Marie over there
so it was her old house so she used to have a recording studio downstairs and
Then after that it was an auditing room and then after that when Ben moved in we turned it into a podcast room
So that was the first studio
So the first episode of the concrete podcast were in a fucking Scientology auditing room and you had a you had a screen up, right?
No, we just we were just in a tiny little room with a plastic table
Okay, the one you were thinking when we're in the other room at this building. Oh, okay. Yeah, I liked that set up
Yeah, yeah, we ever have you in there. No, no, but I had watched it and I was like like I've been watching different ones
I was like, this is a good setup here. Oh, and it has a 14 right like I'd watch like, you know, like
Tommy my buddy Tommy with a mscs media. Uh-huh. That's like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Indian guy, right the
Toys Italian he hates it when you say that which is hilarious. So I say it all the time
I was like Danny was asking about the Indian guy. He said wait with the Indian guy
He's like he gets all don't don't don't tell him I said that he's gonna I don't want don't whack me
Don't tell him not to whack me. I don't want to get whacked. He um
he
His is a total Joe Rogan ripoff like I mean, he's got the Joe Rogan mics. This is all a Joe Rogan
This is a Joe Rogan, but he's got the I mean the angle it is identical to Joe Rogan's like it's horrible
Bro, the big wire. It's it's horrible. Like it's a big Mike's the big my everything
Everything that he even got the camera and I'm like, why don't you just set it the way you like it?
Well, I like the way Rogan does it. I'm like, bro. You're just what are you doing?
You're not Rogan. You're not Rogan. I do your own thing. It's all kind of the same
But you know, it's you know, I'm telling him like lower the camera angles. Why are your camera angles?
Yeah, but that's how Rogan had if you look at the first. What are you doing? Yeah, like a lot of people there
There's no more original ideas Matt. There's nothing. There's no more original ideas. It's true. It's sad, but true
It's just it's all about how good you are at hiding your sources and he's not very good at hiding his sources. No, no
No, I've listened I've messed with them on when he's on camera. I've yelled at me. What are you doing?
He's like, I like Joe Rogan
He's not lying about it. He's like what?
So yeah, it is pretty identical, right? Yeah, it is
It is so is this though. I mean all podcasts are fucking from Joe Rogan. He's the one who started it
That's what everyone's trying to do. I was trying to be as successful as he is and that's why I want to do the cereal for the true
Crime thing. Yeah, I love cereal super different. I love those podcasts, too
Yeah, it's just so much work to make them. You know me, right? That's why so much
Making a documentary. It's an audio documentary. It really is. That's why I was saying with you like that's how I want to do it
And I can't do it on my own
I don't have the time the equipment that you're like just sit down with a mic and start doing it and the problem with those is
They're really good, but you can't put out a lot of them
So if you make if you're if your platform is YouTube, then it's not gonna be six
It's not gonna be as successful because you tell about putting out stuff every week every day
It's 12 a season. We're negotiating for 12 of them as long as you can do that
Are you so are you gonna do that alongside your normal podcast on your on YouTube? Yeah, are they gonna say shut down YouTube?
No, that's a part of it. Well, I can we can't cover the same material, which is fine
I've been covered in any of my material. So you can't even promote it on your podcast
Like hey, there's a new episode coming out on
No, no, they want me to do this is what it's about. No, they want me they would want me to do that
What I can't do is I can't say I can't talk about let's say the the chip though the thing I'm researching right now the chip robberies
It's called the company. It's the
These guys from the triad these Chinese triad members that start robbing
Computer chip manufacturers happen back in the late 80s early 90s
So I can't cover that story on my personal podcast. Mm-hmm. I'm sorry
I can't cover it on their podcast like well
What if we do four episodes and break it down and we do interviews and everything and then while that happens
I turn around and go on my podcast and go and then start talking about the exact same thing that then it's like what and I totally get that
Understand right even if it's just having like telling the story over the course of two hours
They're like, you know because when you do it on a podcast like that you're basically creating intellectual property
Right, which can then be packaged. You gotta be able to have a conversation about it
Touch on the cliff. No, obviously minor
but I can't if it takes if it's six hours to do or it's four hours of
For you know an hour each episode for four episodes. I can't then sit down and tell this whole story in two hours on my
Like if we talked about oh, yeah, yeah, it's about these guys and we had a five minute conversation or ten minute conversation. Okay. Yeah, right
but
So I get so I get and I get that that makes sense. I mean they want me to do podcast
They're saying though we want you to podcast
We want you to promote this and do all this and keep doing what you're doing because they're like you're becoming you're slowly becoming
the kind of go-to guy for true crime and for you know being you know
Cons and frauds and all that same thing with them. Have you seen did you see the home home title lock commercial? Yes
Oh, I saw one the other day. Oh my god, Austin. Can you pull that up, please? I?
Was kid you not I'm standing out front of my house with the front door open
I'm smoking and I hear as always TV's running and I hear I'm like that sounds like fucking Matt Cox
I peeked my head in the door and it was like the last couple seconds of this fucking funny
Security commercial and I saw Matt on there and then it clipped to some of us and no fuck
I tried you know the picture and send it to you before title lock before it came off
Yeah, it's called. It's all I forget what I was watching title lock. I think I was watching the basketball game
Oh, it was on a popular channel. Oh, oh, it's on CNN. It's on TV. It's on there's a 30 minute
I was watching the basketball game and it came there's a 30 minute infomercial in the mornings on Saturdays and Sundays that they loop
Like for like two hours. Yeah, same thing over and over again where they do
Um
So it's so funny because it was crazy, you know my mom
It was the first time I ever saw that you know the first time I saw it was with my mom
I'm eating what I'm eating lunch with my mom. Yeah, this is what I mean breakfast with my mom
Look at that. I do you have this on the screen?
All right. Well, wait a minute. You got first. They got that wrong. They must have pulled that right off
Look at that mug. Yeah, that's a bad one. Keep going. Not great
Wait, what you con man reveals the truth about home title fraud
Whoa
God damn that's loud
Can we make it bigger?
Is this it this must be it. Yeah, press play newt gingrich
Newt gingrich. I've always believed that the real America is the home
It's a sacred place. It's so funny and your values and it's the foundation of your return
That's why I want you to know the truth about home title theft the fbi calls home title theft
One of the fastest growing white collar cybercrimes in America
We don't know why
Here's why me too
Oh
Look at that scoundrel. Look at that beautiful beautiful con man
With the beautiful hairline social security. Look at the old picture. Glorious hairline. Look at that. Oh
Properties that I falsely buy or acquire multiple names and borrow against
First of all, thank you for being honest and sharing those. How did you get into taking the house?
Actually owned a a mortgage company. It's slowly developed and you just learned the
It took our skill set that it required and were you surprised how easy it was? It's extremely easy. Oh my god. This is great
And why is that in order for me to take your house?
It's new gingrich
Why is he interviewing you? They had um
They always have a big time guy who's who's their their main spokesperson. Okay
They're rudy Giuliani for a couple years. Really? Yeah, they had a glen back
Listen, they don't even use like they did like an hour long
Maybe maybe a two-hour conversation with me not between me and new gingrich, but me and like the producers
It was brutal. I mean I was in rear psychopath form
It's just I was just over the top like they're like, so do you do you feel so do you feel bad for these?
No, I don't feel bad. I'll feel anything. I mean, I was just totally. I don't know. I was in a bad mood
I don't know what happened. I was just totally like
Psychopath cold jacked on coffee. How much how much coffee had you had three at least three vinty
There's three of these. I walked in with one of them. You know, I was
It was it was just total. So you were rip roaring. Oh, it was great. It was great
And then when it was done, they were like, you know, we'll we'll probably use a little bit of that
I said, no, I said use it. Well, it was a little little harsh. I said, bro. I said use it
I said make me sound like a complete
scumbag scoundrel
con man
Psychopath, I said, I don't care. I said, look, I'm not going for the whole. Oh, I'm reformed. I feel bad
I said, no, I'm going for the Joker. I said so joker rise me. I said, I don't care
I said, you're not going to make me feel bad. I go. I'm a psychopath. You can't make me feel bad
I don't feel bad. I said so do it run with it
And they were like, oh, you should have seen
Yeah, right
You should have seen the look on their face
They were like
And I said, do it. I said, I got no problem. I said, listen
The people that the people that know me and like me and care about me, they already know who I am
Like and I'm not looking for any new friends
So if everybody else hates my guts, that's fine. Whatever. Nobody's got to hunt me down and kill me. I'm good
So my point is, you know, I so I told them that they still then they did the commercial and so the guy called me the producer
and I was like
Bro, he's like, did you see it? I was like, man
You didn't really he's like, I know it's you know, someone was really harsh
And I was like, it's fine. I said, are you concerned that he's like, I you know
We didn't want to make you look too bad because you're kind of like a spokesperson kind of like it. You don't want, you know
We need to sell some life lock. Yeah, we're trying. We don't want to scare people. I was like, oh man
So anyway, look the commercials are doing so well. They called me back
They want me to come back and do another commercial and they're supposed they're supposed to be sending me
Right now. Well, this was actually about a week ago. We talked about
I think it might have been two weeks ago. They said they were going to have a meeting
He goes and we're trying to figure out how to use you for like the next three years on like an exclusive deal
Nice, and I'm sitting there going they're like, so we're going to put something together
And I'm here we go again. Right. I'm thinking
Where do I sign?
Are you serious and they're like, I mean if you they wanted me to call you make sure you're okay with them
Am I okay with it? Yeah. Yeah, I'm good
I'm good. Let's do this. Absolutely run with it. Wouldn't that be hilarious? That's amazing
People sending me text messages saying bro. I was just watching fox news
Just watching cnn. I was just watching this and you suddenly I turned around you were there. Yeah
I'm like, bro. I talk about it all the time. You are like the biggest success story of this podcast
Like you are the you're the one person who came in here
Nobody knew who the fuck you were and you literally taken the ball and ran with it ran with
it
I mean I so far and this is the thing with all by the way the guy who have created such success out of coming from nothing
Coming on this podcast. Is it really for you?
This is really me and I'm not like I'm not talking about the amount of attention you got just from
As far as podcast views on my channel, right? I'm talking about like what you've turned it into after that
Oh, yeah, listen. Listen. I'm going I'm going to I'm okay
So I think I was supposed to go to Chicago in a couple weeks and be on somebody's podcast
I you know, I've been like all over the you know, I've been to like Ohio. I've been to
California I've been to um, Illinois. I've been to
Puerto Rico I've been to like I've been all over the place doing podcast and
getting doing
Like like I told you about like when I went to Puerto Rico
And they gave me like 1,800 bucks like flying to Puerto Rico and have a lunch with these guys with a couple of fucking billionaires in Puerto Rico
They just wanted to hear my story and then I leave
Um, so you were basically just like entertainment for the night for a couple billion and I was telling the guy was like
So, I mean what why and they're like, well, you know, we usually have somebody come and we I saw your stuff
And I said to the other guys and they love your stuff and we just like you to come just have lunch
I'm like, I can't do that for free. Yeah, no offense, but I gotta get paid
Could you imagine they fly mad to fucking Epstein Island just for the night they came a million dollars
Would you do it?
Yeah, hell yeah
What?
Um, so clip that I want the thumbnail of that to be Matt's face with Epstein Island and
Epstein's big dome house in the background
Um, so look so I'm going to Amsterdam
Oh, yeah, they've watched the I'm going to Amsterdam for four or five days the end of august to be in a
There's a six-part series
Called the psychology of a con of condom and and there's six part. They got one guy from asia
They've got a guy from germany a guy from france a guy from the uk
um
Guy from someplace else like japan japan or something
And they've got and guess who represents the united states of america
Matthew cost no fucking way when I was zooming them and they were like and I was like so wait a second
So I go so you got a guy here. I go. So are you saying that I'm representing the united states for like the top
Con man like that and they were you could see they they they get scared like they're like they're looking like, um, well, um,
They were like, I mean, I would have to say yes
I go, yes
Yes, I go, let's do it and they were just like I said that's awesome. That's awesome. They were like
Oh, that's just not the response we typically get
So you're gonna fly me in there you're gonna do a battery test
I said so you're gonna try and figure out what makes me a con man
They're like, yes, it's going to be a battery test. There's a psychiatrist. Oh, really?
That's interesting. I can't wait to see that sign me up. Let's do it. Mm-hmm
And they've watched all this stuff on concrete. So it's that then I'm also going to like the
It's the association of mortgage brokers. I'm going to that that's an alabama association of mortgage brokers
They're flying me in to do I I'm flying in
And for one day I'm flying in oh shit. Sorry flying in the morning
45 minutes tell my story 15 minutes Q&A jump back on the plane fly right back out. Wow
What's the flight out there feels like a 13 hour flight to alabama? Oh, no, I thought you're talking about fucking uh
I'm talking about like Amsterdam Amsterdam. Amsterdam's like 15 hours. Yeah, it probably is pretty bad. Hmm. It ain't I it's worth the flight
Yeah, I can't I hope it's not like spirit or hopefully it's not
Hopefully it's not a fucking six hour turnaround like that. Listen. It's not like I it's not like I've never been in a small
Uncomfortable, you know position for 15 hours at a time or 12 likes
You put me in a box small box with my hands cuffed like this and I'd be like
I can eat a sandwich doing that go to the bathroom. I can open up a little juice box
I can do everything with my hands like this. Yeah, you can file a 995
True crime has uh, there's something about true crime. It's like blowing up in the last couple years
Last like two years. I want to say no, it's like the last five or 10
It's really been getting big
It is fucking like true crime has become one of the most popular genres right now
Not only for podcasts, but for shows like netflix show. Yeah, now they're kind of getting converted
Into uh, like the the net like the netflix series. They're like converting like dirty john
All of those. Yeah. Yeah, it's fucking insane
Even my like my wife all she watches is fucking shit about people getting raped and murdered women love
Like they like the they like the really that's all my mom watches
It's like 70. She's either watching the news or she's watching like the id channel. Yeah, I can't watch people getting murdered
It's too fake. Some of the stuff on tv though. It's just two stories. They're true stories
They're true stories, but the way they dramatize them and drama
Like like there's a ufo thing on history channel about skinwalk skinwalker ranch
And it's just the way it's produced in the way they skinwalker ranch. What's there's a ranch in utah
It has all kind of paranormal phenomena that happened
All kind of paranormal phenomena that happens with like crazy magnets and fucking up iphone's water. It's water
It's weird drinking water out of a can right? I mean, I don't drink beer anyway, but even when I look at it
I it should hold it up. Hold it up. It's a smile. Do a promo for liquid death. They sponsor the podcast
What who is it? It's liquid death. It's a water company. What do you think about their water?
I it's it tastes good. This tastes like death better than the tap
No, um, their slogan is murder your thirst murder your thirst. Look at that. They sent me a fucking giant
Stack of water and sparkling water. Nice. It's good. It is good. I don't know what the sparkling water's like, but this is good
Yeah, it's good. It's great. It's great. It's uh drinking water from the alps. Yeah, it's like drinking water
No, water a beer can that's been washed out really good
Anyways, the the shit that's on tv shows is just it's so overproduced and dramatic and
Dramatized dramatize. That's the word I was looking for
And it just makes me just like whenever something's overproduced and dramatized like that. It just makes me makes me skeptical of it
Yeah, it's like watching american greed. Yeah
We're method cod man walked into the office. Yeah, you say stop another single mother. Yeah
So, oh fuck
Um, oh, yeah true crime and then women women are like are like half of it gets better
It gets better. I got called another thing. I got called from a guy who did you ever you're seeing? Um
Oh god, it's called. Uh, hold on. It's on a and e. It's called, uh
um
60 days in
I've seen it on the
Scrolling through but I've never watched it
Okay, so I've watched a couple episodes because this guy contacted me like a week or so ago
Like I never check instagram
People contact me on instagram like I check it maybe once or twice a month and they'll be like 30
And so as I'm going through like, you know accept and you know, oh cool. Thanks, you know and giving them
Little responses this one guy says hey if he hadn't put a and e in the name of the show
He would have gotten nothing. Yeah, like if it was just like hey, bro. Watch your stuff. You're awesome
You know give me a call but instead he was like I'm so-and-so from you know
I'm tony his name is tony from a and e
He has a bunch of guys have reached out a bunch of my fans have reached out to me and said I need to interview you
I need to contact you. I've watched your stuff on on uh on uh youtube, you know, great stuff
Really want to talk to you about being interviewed and talked to you about a and e and I was like
It's like a week or so. I was like, oh god. So I responded I talked to him the other day
He wants to interview me for some show for a and e
Talk him out possibly trying to do some kind of a call for the 60 days in show
No for something totally different, but they're they're like hooked in with him now
You know, he was a big he was basically the star of that show
Okay, and so there he's now doing kind of like a spin-off show
And so same thing it's it's so there's lots of stuff that constantly happening
It's just trying not to get in hooked into that trap where you end up signing a bunch of stuff and then nothing happens
Get your hopes up on right, but imagine if you if you didn't have a podcast if you didn't have any sort of other
If you didn't have anything else going on you'd be like, oh, yeah, they'd want to they want to sign you up
Exclusively for them and you would have nothing else. You know what I mean?
Now you have leverage when you start putting out your own shit that you own
Independently you have leverage against those people and they know that right what you know
It's funny too because guys always tell me like I always get guys like, oh, what does Danny pay you for that?
What is that? I'm like, well nothing bro. You I'll pay anybody a podcast you do all that for nothing like
We have it you do understand so then you have to break it down. You understand what's happened like
Like concrete me put me on like I was already out
and doing stuff, but
Like, you know, I was already in a couple magazines and I was trying to you were still in the halfway house when you came on
The show the first time. No, no, I just got out. I wouldn't do it in the halfway house. I was too scared
You wouldn't do it. You were not allowed to you did it after
Um, and he was even like come well first of all I couldn't I can't disappear for four hours
Like there's no way to go across. Listen, you're so scared in the halfway house. Like they're they're knocking people off
Yeah, they're ready to send me right back to jail
So, you know, he's like, yeah come over and this I'm like, I'll hold it and then so I got out and then he called me
I've been out like a month or a few weeks or something. You're like, bro. I answered your questions
Yeah, I because I'd asked him about oh, yeah podcast answered your question said you were gonna come on. You're not in the thing
I had I had somebody fall somebody. Um, didn't show up. Yes. I'm gonna reschedule last minute
I need I got nothing like in the can. I need to do something. I need to come out. I was like
All right
So I came out but
You know, I explained that I said look Danny put me on a course
Mm-hmm because of the podcast put me on a course and got me exposure that I never would have gotten
Had I said, oh, you're gonna give me 500 books, you know, I'm saying or you go to then he'd have been like screw you
I'll go get I'll go just have a conversation with anybody for it. You know, forget it. I'm not gonna do it
Okay, so then what where would I be? I'd be pushing I'd be pushing books on my own
It has been said that I I have had people tell me that I am the Joe Rogan of florida
Oh god, who the fuck guessed you up like that?
No
It's been said. I'm been it's been said. It could be a fact. I'm just saying it could be a fact
Matt, you didn't fuel that comment to his head. Did you? No
No
I've had a guest come on here and say it and I've had I've seen at least one comment that said that
So it could I could it could be true. Who knows?
Anyways, you've done great for yourself. You you've really taken off. You really uh, you really
I'm not making a bunch of money, but a lot of things are happening like something's got to hit
There's so much stuff up in the air right now
Like it's so much of me and throwing it at the wall. Something's got to stick for sure
Yeah, but it's not about one thing sticking. It's about staying consistent and that's what you're doing
Right. No, no, I'm staying. I'm staying on and I'm putting stuff. I'm putting up and and the interview snowball effect, right?
It's a snowball effect. The first podcast was the spark that lit the flame now
It just keeps growing and growing and it's it's all the it's and I look I like doing the podcast
Like I like look like um Juan Juan
I'm gonna interview this chick that it's great. Juan's great too because he works. Who you talking about? Juan Sanchez
Okay, he's the ex-con that you just uh, yeah, the guy from venezuela like got kidnapped in venezuela. It was laundered
$39 million. He's got a great story
Um, but just so happens. He knows somebody knows a chick that was a high-end madam
Who was bringing girls in I'm gonna say from like
Brazil or something? I don't know that it was some south american country. I don't know which one
But she was bringing girls so they can come in like you can come in for like 90 days to the united states
Come hang out whatever on vacation. So they would come in for 90 days
So this girl's get this woman's getting phone calls
from women in let's say brazil she's spanish too and
Um, they're calling her and saying look
I can come to the united states for 90 days. I need to make some money and she's setting it like supermodel hot looking
And they're coming in and they're working as high-end escorts
she so she's
I don't want to say pimping them out. Should I say she is yeah, okay? Yeah, I mean not the best possible. She's a pimp
She's pimping out
So she's being a madam to these women and they're they're coming and they're they're going back like a get like a giz lane
I could giz lane max well
On a different level. Yeah, that was epstein's girl. Oh was it? Oh, no. No. No. It was proc procuring
Yeah, but these are adult women. These are oh, they're not they're not kids. Oh, no
No, no, it's not like sex trafficking. What is sex trafficking and kind of yeah, anyway
Look, so this chick comes in so these girls are coming in for 90 days
And then they're going back to like venezuela or colombia or brazil with 50 grand 50 grand is going back there
It's like going back there with like 400 000. That's right. It's a huge amount of money
You can buy a condo and still have years worth of income left
so
They're going back there with and so then those girls go back there
They tell this person this girl next, you know, next, you know, she's just running them left and right and he sent me her indictment
I read her her indictment. I read her
stipulation of facts I'm like
Counts with 400 000 and counts with 100 000 200 000. This girl got paid 80 000. This girl got 60 000
This girl got I mean these chicks are coming in and they're just lining them up
I was like this chick's probably got a pretty good story
This is a pretty interesting story. She did this for years
So she's coming in. I'm gonna do her on my podcast on on wednesday next wednesday
Um, one's gonna come back one's gonna do do a concrete
Which will be better than mine because and you're gonna be here too. Oh, yeah, I mean, I'll be if you whatever you guys decide
like he's
You'll be able to do a better podcast like I just sat there and thought he was just gonna
Tell his story like I didn't
Interview him really does that make sense?
Because I'd heard him say his story so many times. I thought he was gonna just roll it on out
Yeah, but he's like I haven't told anybody that story and
Like like when did he tell you that story in prison in prison seven or eight years?
Okay, so he went to keep mine. He left he went to
He went to an ice facility
He went to so he had a whole thing after we met
So he hasn't been telling that story. So he was like, yeah, yeah, yeah, so here's what I did
So he he threw out some stuff and I was like, whoa, I kept having to go. Whoa
What about this?
And he was like, oh, yeah, yeah
I forgot about yeah, so what happened then he tell that story. I go, oh, what about how the story about how you got the money to pay for your attorney?
That is a good story. Yeah, that's good. Let me tell that and it's like
It wasn't as good. Mm-hmm. You know, yeah
Like I felt like it wasn't good Colby my my video editor. He was like, bro. That was amazing was a great story
He was great. I was like, but I had an anticipation of what it was in my mind
Right. Yeah, it was different man
You know, it would be great for the prison industrial complex as if the people who own the prisons
They set up in the prison cells. They set up podcasts
So everyone in prison could have their own podcast their own youtube show and the prisons could make so much fucking money
by
Pimping out these prisoners to have a true crime podcast
Imagine it imagine how much money they could have selling it fucking arrest them all
Fill those prisons up now. We can have more podcasts make more make more podcast money
We can have deals with spotify. Jesus the prison had escalated quickly. I was gonna say they're all first of all
They're already
Filled out. Yeah, there are
He's really just need to bring it up. So okay prison owners if you want to make more money
Do deals with spotify fill the prison cells with microphones and set up podcasts with the prisoners that way they can have their podcasts in prison
and the prisons can do spotify deals directly and
It'll be fucking hands-over-fist millions never happen never happen in federal system. They won't let sure will they won't let a camera in
They won't let you come in and video an inmate in prison
Not since not since uh, was it diane soyer did it or was it barbara walters did she did one for 60 minutes and it was called uh
It was called um, uh club fed
Where they actually went into a prison a camp and showed
The facility and how nice the facility was
And people went nuts
Like, you know, because they're they're they're showing guys playing tennis. They're showing guys doing fishing. They're doing this. They're doing that
They're like, oh, and she's like she's she's going. Oh, what'd you have for dinner? He's like, oh, we had this and you know
He's like, oh, we had like he's saying all these things that sound good
And so they immediately after that whole thing they went in and they said the
federal the
Bureau of prison said
We're never letting another camera in
Because they made us look like fools and we're taking away this and this they start
They literally are paving over all the stuff. They're tearing up. They they just took everything away. Yeah, but who cares anymore
Who cares anymore? Everybody knows everybody talks about it. Everybody knows all the fucking crazy shit that goes on
In prisons, but they were saying they were portraying that it was club fed. They were saying it was like club
It was too nice, right?
But who cares? Well, it's too late. You don't have to care now because it's not now. Now it's a state. So that's practically a state
Exactly. So let the cameras and now like give them podcasts
I I and I think you should take that on but having dealt with the
Bureaucracy of federal the federal prison system. I can tell you it's never gonna happen
I think it's time for the federal prison system to give into the entertainment industry
Look as as feeble as biden is you could probably
fool them into signing something
You know, but
Yeah, true crime is profitable. It is but just who's it? Who's the head of the BOP right now? We need to get him on here
No idea
That'd be great. He'd probably can you find out who the head of the bureau of prisons is?
We need to reach out to him immediately and get him on here
Do you remember when I told you about the time that I came up with that?
That newsletter about the uh, Puerto Ricans how I said trump was the fake newsletter. Oh, yeah
Juan Juan and I talked about that. Oh, we laughed because Juan was one of the guys who came up to me
He's like Matt Matt. He was like, have you heard anything about this thing?
This thing trump signed and they're sending the Puerto Ricans back to to Puerto Rico or I went
I said, okay, bro. I'm gonna tell you something and I told him it was me
Michael Carvigel
the director of the BOP
As of 2020 so he's the guy who is the new director after epstein suicided himself
The old be the old the old BOP guy got got canned after epstein damn
So we need to get michael. Well, maybe we get we probably have a better chance of getting the old
Can you imagine like like this guy sitting there like well
I have nothing to do with it. It's all about optics. It's all about optics matt fire him fire me
What are you talking about like? Yeah, somebody's gotta I wasn't I wasn't sleeping at the stand
I what didn't fix I didn't break the camera like I was right. It was here. I was gonna work five states away
I've never seen that right. He's probably never been there. There's 1300 facilities. I've never even been there. Yeah, you're fired. It's like
Why because it won't because it'll look good for us. I wish we're trying to clear us everything's about optics
It's all it matters. It's all it matters is what it looks like to the public
What are you gonna put there for the couch I got a new couch on the picture couch is gone
Why what's the new couch? Where'd you get it garage sale? What's happening? No, no, I bought it online
I bought it on the internet. It's nice. It's I don't know if you would call it nice
I don't want to spoil the surprise, but it's a very nice. It's a vintagey couch for vintage blue velvet couch matt cox
You're gonna hate it. You're gonna absolutely for sure hate it
I
I'm begging you to rethink this. Why look this is nice. This is nice the
The um, you like hate you like the drawings of the fishermen with the butts in the heart
See that see the noose with the beach did not even notice that. Can you go grab that for me real quick? We got to show that
I mean, I'm wearing the headphones. What do you think? Let's let's let's analyze this art piece right here
Look at this with your uh arts degree. What is your what is your arts degree opinion on on this artwork?
We got we got a noose with a beach in the background
We got the florida with the 666 and we got the fisherman's asshole with the heart around it
Where's the fishermen's right here, okay
I I mean what I mean, I think it's it's drawn well. Yeah, okay. I'll take that. I'll buy that
Luke did Luke. Okay. Yeah, I figured Luke did it hand drawn
Nice. Yeah
I mean, it's all disturbing but Luke's an artist
I know I know I heard that
Um, here's a degree. I know he does. He has an arts degree liberal
I don't mean that mean I've never seen anything. He's done except for this
I meant to ask you this. What's the difference between a fine arts degree and a liberal arts degree?
What's a liberal arts degree?
You really don't know? No, I don't know. Really? Is that what your mom has?
My mom has a master's degree in fine art. Hmm fine art master's degree. What is your degree?
That may just a b.a. A bachelor. So you only did four years. My mom did
Eight years. Wow fucking masters. That just means that she has less money than you
The national association of schools of art and design
NASAD
Which accredits bachelors of fine arts programs and visual arts and design in the united states
States that the professional degree bfa focuses on intensive work in the visual arts supported by programs of
genital studies
whereas
liberal liberal arts genital or general general
Liberal arts degrees focus on art and design
I don't understand
liberal
Is there a conservative? Is there a conservative arts degree? I went to a coffee. I went to a coffee shop today
So there's this coffee shop that's in panellas park. That's called conservative grounds. Right, right? You did a
I did a video that was a little documentary on it. Yeah, I did a little like a little expose on it
Yeah, I did a little fine arts piece on it and it's basically all trump supporters. It's heavily support back the blue
Make america great again coffee shop. It's a make america. It's a maga coffee shop
And there's a there's a replica of the oval office with a statue of malania and trump in there
And the desk and everything it's fucking great
And uh, I don't really go to coffee shops that much
If I want coffee I get like mcdonald's coffee or I make it at home
Right and I went to a coffee shop today. Like I actually like googled like what's a good coffee shop around here?
And there was a really decent coffee shop with great google reviews fucking five stars all the way
Right down the street. I went and said I fuck it. I'm gonna go there and so I can get some, you know,
cafe con leche
So I go over there and it's just like
Complete polar opposite of conservative grounds conservative grounds is the last coffee shop. I've been and it's just like this girl
She's got like pink hair bull cut total lesbo and she's just like hi
How are you today?
What can I get you if you have any questions about the menu? Please just don't hesitate to ask and I'm just like
Wow
just the fucking
Crazy, I wish they were right next to each other
Radical fucking difference in the coffee shops. It's fucking insane. It's just like I didn't even want to be there
Like I would rather be to some I'd rather be at some fucking gunsling in country coffee shop than have this fucking
I believe that but the girl but the coffee was great. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna sleep on the coffee and who had the better coffee
That's the question the liberal the the fucking the liberal coffee shop because they put some love into that coffee
They put some love into it
There was definitely some very artistic
Care she had loving hands when she made the coffee and there were some kids in the corners doing
You know working in photo shop, you know doing their photo shop work and sending some emails in the corner
And it was quiet and it was very nice ambiance. Yeah
But it was just I don't know something about it just made me kind of like sneer at it
You know what I mean? Just because it was so over the top so just over the top like
Art see farts see coffee shop, you know, and I haven't been to a coffee shop in so long the last coffee shop
I've been to is conservative grounds. So I guess that was the reason I was so shocked by it
You don't ever go into Starbucks or no never. I mean, I've driven through so I've been through the drive through
I'd never go into Starbucks now. I a lot of times I'll go like if the line's too long
I'll pull in and just walk in. You know, I'll go I used to go in more obviously
Before the pandemic, you know, I would go in and sit down and drink coffee and
Whatever play, you know answer emails on my phone or whatever
But it's it's so like it's that's the normal thing though for coffee shops to be like that like that the coffee shop
I went to yeah, I think so it's a place to kind of hang out and
Yeah, they why aren't there more conservative coffee shops. I wonder
I mean, I think that dude like the conservatives not like coffee tech. No, I'm sure
Sure, they're drinking the hell out of coffee
He's drinking it at home and they don't have time to hang out. They don't like they don't like to sit at jobs
They're too busy making money
They're too busy making America great again
No, it's that's why it is the liberal the conservative people they have jobs
They're making a living and the people that are at the liberal coffee shops that I went to today. They're living off welfare, right?
Damn
I did not say
I'm canceled. I've had too much whiskey. Oh, yeah
That wasn't even funny. I was just trying to be funny
But anyways, I thought it was funny take but the coffee was fucking great. The girl was super nice. She was a very sweet girl
Yeah, she was very she was very, you know affectionate and loving when she made my coffee
I'll go back. We'll go back there for sure
And I was wearing a Maryland Manson t-shirt and she made it very she did not like that
She made a comment about my Maryland Manson shirt. She's like, oh
Maryland Manson shirt, huh?
I know, you know because he's been canceled. You know that
Uh-uh, you know, you know, you know Marilyn Manton is he's a singer. Yeah. Yeah, he got he got called out
He got called out by one of his ex-girlfriend saying that he was abusive in the relationship. He's been canceled meaning what?
Do you know what cancel culture is?
Oh, well, so now nobody's gonna nobody they
Basically, you know what me too is. Yeah, but it's it's it's um
I'm gonna say it's like uh
Well, they call that where you you suddenly everybody decides they're not gonna go to target. What do they call it when you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah when you try to cancel when you say that they've done something wrong
There's another name for that that you would typically use it's um, it's where you're against that
Target and you're not gonna go there anymore that kind of thing. Yeah, what do they call that? It's called cancel culture
Well, that's what you're calling it because it's that's the thing they call it now, but it's like
Boycott boycotting. Thank you kind of yeah
Yeah, so it's like boy, you're boycotted, right?
So Marilyn Manson's being boycotted right now or canceled because one of his ex-girlfriend said that he was abusive in their sexual
life
I love that any woman that says anything you have to automatically believe anything she says. Yes, exactly
But you're fucked if you don't right. I think a couple other women piled on after her
They always pile on right right. Yeah, like cosby. So you like cosby exactly you raped 50 women over the course of 30 years
None of them ever came I thought I was hundreds with cosby
Yeah, I think it's like 50 something like whatever but um, it could be more but saying, you know that you did this for
For the last 30 years. This is what you've done and none of them came forward until one woman said something then they all
rushed in
Right. I was at a party with him in 1979
He drugged and raped me too
Really? I mean
That
You know it how long did cosby how how long was cosby in prison for he just got out?
But how long was he in for do you know? I don't know four or five years, right? No, no, was it three three or four years?
About three or four years right around three or four
Yeah, so what do you know that do you know the actual like like the story behind
His case right now. It's a it was a civil case or a criminal case. It wasn't criminal, right? It was civil
Well, I mean it's what it started started civil it started it started civil were basically
he this woman was suing him
and
He decided he was going to settle a lawsuit
And they settled because she said look you gave me whatever it was lsd or you gave me something, you know quailude quailudes
Yeah quailudes and which kills me because when they say it like this
We were at a party. He drugged me. He raped me. Yeah
so
His version of course is we were at a party
I was taking quailudes. I asked her if she wanted some she took some
We ended up, you know 30 45 minutes later. We ended up having sex, right?
So it's it's no different then we were at a party. I was taking some xanax the chick
I was with said hey you got any for me and I said absolutely here have one
45 minutes we ended up having sex in my car you raped or you drugged and raped her like
No different than I was having a couple of drinks. I said hey you want to drink?
Sure. She had a couple shots at the bar. We end up having sex in the in the parking lot. Guess what you drug you you drugged and raped her
I mean, it's like that progression
So he ends up so he ends up for the purposes of the
of the civil
Of the civil suit. He says
Um
They said did you drug and you know did you drug rape? Yes. I I gave her the quailudes. We had sex with this
I didn't rape her. I did this. I did this. I did drug her. I did have sex with her
I did this I did that and you know, I'll say all this provided you're never going to be able to use this
Of course, of course, of course
Then of course that she gets a settlement everything goes through boom. Let's put it out there
Now let's we're going to go ahead and we're going to go ahead and we're going to use that against you to
File criminal charges and we're going to charge you and you're going to go to prison and then all these other women say
You know what? I was at a party with this guy 20 years ago. He raped me too
He and suddenly everybody jumps on the bandwagon next thing, you know, this guy's this guy's apparently been
Raping people, you know every few weeks for the last 30 or 40 years
And he's 80 something years old and he ends up going to prison
And then of course a judge finally looks at it and says well, wait a second
You can't you first you can't use this but on top of that
He's admitting to something for the purposes of a lawsuit for a civil for a civil lawsuit
Like he's like like civil lawsuits are all about money. They're all about getting a settlement
Right, right a criminal lawsuit is actually for prison time. Right because that's what that's
That's the way you make it right like that you and I get into an argument
Or something and you cost me money somehow you get me fired from my job
You do whatever you start you slander me somehow and I get fired and I lose my house
I turn around I sue you and then I prove that that's true that what you said was a lie and you got me
You know you got me fired and and I ended up losing my house
I had to start over well guess what now you owe me money
And that's how you do it because I can't come over and club you and I can't throw you in prison
Right because it's civil. It's not what you did was wrong, but it's not illegal
So, you know you handle it civilly and that's what they handle this civilly
We handle this civilly because I we have a difference of opinion. You're saying I dropped and raped you
I'm saying we were at a party and we both got fucked up and we had sex
Yeah, you know, it's a difference of opinion, but I don't obviously I'm bill cosby
I don't want this to go any further. I'm an 80 year old man. You're gonna give you a couple million dollars
That's nothing to me. Yeah, but then it suddenly hits the media everybody jumps on board. He ends up going to prison
But a judge a reasonable judge looks at it and says no
He would have said I was I flew in on a I flew in on a ufo
magic carpet
Yeah, I flew in in a ufo and I beamed you up and had I would have said anything for the purposes of the lawsuit
To just to get rid of it like you can't take that because he's saying that's not what happened
What you said it on film. What are you talking about? I said, of course I did
Civil and I was never going to use it. It doesn't matter what I say. Mm-hmm
I'm trying to get the fuck out of here trying to get this done with I'm an old man
I'm dying, but I'd be dead soon for god's sake and I'm I'm I'm worth 100 million dollars
Civil lawsuits are all about who's got the more money to spend on a lawyer, right?
That's at the end of the day at the end of the day. That's what it comes down to who's going to take it the farthest
Who's who's going to fuck sometimes it's it's it's about look it's
Somebody's always trying to get money. You have more leverage if you have more money
Whoever has more money has more leverage. They hire more like if you're just wrong, you're wrong
You know I'm saying sometimes you're wrong
It's hard to eat it's hard to be on an even playing field when one person's
Broke and the other one has 60 lawyers on their payroll and they're worth a trillion dollars, right?
It's hard for me to sue
Amazon right, but if that person who has the 60 lawyers is also a celebrity with
a reputation to uphold then
It's even worse the small person had then they have leverage then the smaller guy has leverage because right they can put their story out there
Right, well, it's it's like the guy. It's like the guy with Nike the guy
That just is going to go two and a half years got
The guy that was a stormy weathers old attorney
stormy daniels stormy
Stormy weathers did I say said weathers stormy weathers stormy daniels stormy daniels old attorney, um
Which is um
Avante
Something avante. What's his name aponte? No, no aponte. No avante
Um, yeah the the guy, uh, who's
He was with um, he was stormy dan
Stormy daniels old lawyer. Yeah, I don't know. Okay. He went to nike
Michael avante
He went to night. He went to night. How do I not know this story? I don't know. He went to nike and said look
I've got clients that are that are sports guys
You know or sorry, um that are sport kids that were in sports and that are gonna say that you guys offer to pay him
Or pay them and i'm gonna help like i'll he didn't they got him on tape saying he's saying I want 25 million dollars
Or i'm gonna your your company's gonna take a 10 billion dollar saying kids. They were paying kids
What pay that they were they were either paying kids or I forget the exact thing but basically he was gonna smear
He was ready to pay kids to do what make make their shoes to wear their shoes to wear their products
federal judge on thursday sentenced celebrity lawyer turned criminal defendant
Michael avante to 30 months in prison for attempting to extort millions of dollars from nike
wow
He rose to fame as stormy daniels lawyer and was convicted in february 2020 that was more than a year ago bro
of three counts for
Threatening to publicly accuse the sportswear company of illicitly paying amateur basketball players
Unless nike paid him right wow so he and his whole thing was like if I do this it's gonna cost you guys
Your your company will take a 10 billion dollar, you know nose dive like your stock will this and it's so I want 25 million dollars
And so so they immediately called the fbi
Yeah, and there's recorded him and everything and then boom now he's doing two and a half years
Fucking dummy what a dumb ass
Already rich already got a bunch of money trying to extort just a greedy fucking scumbag
Right, so I'm saying that his leverage over nike what because typically I'll bet you'd be shocked how many
Big corporations actually do pay out
Just to get rid of like nuisance suits like little like we don't want this in the
We don't want to be associated with this or you know, whatever. I mean how many times he probably asked for too much
He should have shot the number about half of what he shot at
Or he should have double or should have made the number way higher. Well, I'm wondering what I'm wondering what the fbi after a certain amount
Yeah, yeah, I'm wondering exactly like what what how much?
Well, I'll tell you what they probably felt like he was pretty over the top and we can definitely prove this and this will
Send a message to anybody else who wants to try this. Yeah, like it's worth
Going to this and he's probably was probably being so overt about it
Like they're like this this dumb ass is bound to say something wrong on tape like we can easily get this guy
He's not doing it like in the guise of the law. He's basically like
Extorting there and he'd see says on it. He's he's like what he says something like
They said something about well, what about this a million dollars because a million dollars. He's that doesn't do anything for me
He said listen, he said i'll come out with he's i'll line up 10 10 guys there
You know 10 whatever basketball players that'll all say this
He said 10 he said and he goes in your
He says something like like your stock will take up 10 million dollar or 10 billion dollar hit
He said okay. He said so stop fucking around with me. I mean, he's talk. He's cussing. He's with a bunch of lawyers
You're probably in his office fucking taking shots of whiskey doing lines, right?
So they're probably sitting at the lawyers who were wired up or like
That was beautiful. That was perfect. Yeah. What do you think?
God damn what an idiot clip it like how perfect is that somebody clip that
so yeah
But uh, yeah, so bill cosby going back to bill cosby his lawyer that he used was one of trump's lawyers
He was uh, one of the lawyers trump to use for his impeachment trial
right
Um, I don't know. I'm not i'm pretty sure it was yeah trump lawyer bruce. Oh look at how quick that was austin fuck
Trump lawyer bruce castor plays a central role in the bill cosby going free look at bill
That's not bill. Yeah, it is. That's fucking bill
The fucking white guy. No, that's his lawyer. That's bill's lawyer bruce. That's what I said bruce
He said look at bill. I said look at bruce. You're all fucked up today, buddy. Your words are all jumbled up run it back pal
Lawyer bruce castor has now gotten two extremely high profile americans off this year in a much-watched legal proceeding
First came president donald trump now comes bill cosby
That's crazy. So um, so what is the reason so bill?
He when he went to prison for a few years for this case basically the the judge who looked at this said
You can't take this evidence. You can't take the shit that went down in the civil lawsuit
You can't take it to a federal
You can't take it to a criminal transfer it into a criminal lawsuit. So it goes against the rules, right?
Well, I mean he was just
He's saying that it's it's different first of all well first of all a lot of used it
We don't we all agree this cannot be used you cannot you know this
This is for the sole purposes of this trial blah blah blah and then they end up and give it to the uh
So obviously rape is a very bad thing. You know, it's not good to rape people
Yeah, especially when we can agree you got hundreds of people
You got hundreds of women saying that you raped them right like you should be in fucking prison if you're raping hundreds of people
Right, but the what are you saying is there's also statute of limitations
You know i'm saying so the statute of limitations on almost all of them was up
Almost almost all of them, but I love that it's all up, but they all get to come in when your sentence
They all get to line up and talk. Okay. Well, wait a second her statute of limitations. She wasn't I didn't rape her
She said you did we're gonna let that stand let her come out right, you know
So they get to go in and say, you know, oh in 19
So are they saying they fucked up by like it was fucked up. They should not have locked them up
Yeah, there's no what there's did was they said
This evidence could not have been used and as a result of that i'm throwing it out with prejudice
So you can't use it you can't bring it back and i'm dismissing the charges with prejudice
You cannot re re charge him and so the state can't come in and say oh, we're gonna charge him again
And without the evidence no the judges say one you're not using it again two you're not charging him again
He's gone. So here's the thing what we're gonna say
So you don't think the whole time that he's going through his trial or whatever
His him and his lawyers have to know like you can't be using this evidence. Yeah, it's it's always subject
I mean it's always subjective like and look there's stuff where it's clearly you cannot use this evidence
And the u.s. Attorney will argue it your honor, but this and and sometimes the judge will well
I'm gonna allow it and then what are you talking about like the defense will say well statutes such and such this
I disagree and they'll knowing
That you understand that this is going to this will be appealed and it'll be thrown out and the whole thing will be thrown out
But the judges know and the u.s. Attorneys know they're like, yeah, I know but
think about it
It's gonna the trials this long by time he gets the prison by the time he
Appeals it by the time he does this it's two years
Then even if he gets a new trial, which is probably pretty good
It's gonna be six months before we have to be the trial. We'll delay it as much as we can
We'll get another three years
He'll do three years before he gets back in front of a jury and he's already lost once
So we can probably negotiate with him during that period of time to say look immediate release
But you have to plead guilty
And most guys even if they're innocent say, all right, all right fine. Just let me out like I'll be a felon
I don't care. I just let me out like they're so now it's three years
You're traumatized and you see how the system works and you realize how stacked against you it is
So you realize right away. Look, I'll do anything just to escape the situation
Like I've got 20 years and you're gonna let me out after three
I'll take it even though I haven't done anything most of the time when they do stuff like
Like the innocence project comes in and stuff and they'll say look turns out that all of this evidence
All this evidence that you have against this guy
You said this is his blood. You said this is his fingerprints. You said this you said, guess what not his blood not this not that
Most of the time the states will come in and say we're gonna retry them
What are you talking about?
Your your main evidence was the blood was the semen. It's not his it's 100%
We we actually have another person that it may be that died in prison two years ago
What are you talking about? They're like, no, no, we're gonna retry them. We'll try it again because they're they're like
Look, first of all the guys he's been locked up 10 years
He knows how bad it is. He knows the the chance that he got this innocent
Yeah, what he's innocent. He's in prison and the chance he knows that this was a fluke
So he knows if we retry him, there's a chance he's going back
He might still get found guilty and we're gonna use that to try and get him to plead guilty
So that he can't sue us for what we did to him right and most guys will say yeah, okay
I'll take it like wait you didn't rape her you didn't rape and murder that woman
You didn't do this. You didn't do any of this. It's all 100 percent true. We can prove it now
You're still ready to sign something and walk away. Why because I thought I was gonna die in prison
And and I'm just desperate to just get out. Right. You just want to get the fuck right any
You know for all I know I could be I could be killed in here before I walk out of here
Especially now that people have seen me on the news and they know I'm getting out
A lot of jealousy in prison people will attack you for no reason
A lot of guys like won't tell people when they're getting out
Like a lot of guys will be like look don't go around like the last month or two saying yeah, man
I'm out of here in a month. I'm out of here a month because a lot of these guys aren't getting out for 10 years
Some of these guys are gonna die in here and you're walking around saying that
There's a lot of people that are bipolar. They'll flip out on you and attack you. So don't say nothing
So, you know, you don't know what's gonna happen. These guys are signing just to walk out the door
Of course, once they're outside they turn around they're like
I should have sued I should have this I shouldn't have signed that paper
But you were under such duress
Right
Plus wasn't wasn't part of the argument that he's fucking 80 years old like letting this guy out
Even if he's a rapist, he's nothing to worry about. He's a fucking 88. He's not a risk. He's not a risk
He's not like a fucking 30 year old guy
Who's a serial rapist these women aren't saying that he beat me
He beat up beat me bound me threw me in the trunk of his car drove me to
Drove me out in the woods raped me and left me for dead. They're saying hey slip me a mickey and
Next thing you know, he looked good and he was a famous and rich. So I had sex with him
You know, they're not saying he he beat on me and held me down and you know
My eyes were black and blue and I broke my nose and
You know, right you think he knew was gonna get out on that technicality. No, no, I mean, I think that
Look, I think at his level your lawyers are always
Kind of telling you we can do this and we can do this
We got a good chance we got like they're trying and they can keep trying they will keep trying because they're getting paid to try
So they're doing that and in his mind. Maybe he never really accepted it
But I've known a lot of rich guys
That 100% were positive. They were not going to be found guilty
Yeah, and then when they were found guilty like after a year or two like they think oh well, they're gonna get it turned over
They're gonna let me back out on bond then they find out you're not getting bond. Well, what do you mean?
Mm-hmm. Well, you're gonna have to start the prison sentence and we'll do this. We're gonna do it as quickly as possible
How quickly right like how how long am I gonna be you telling me I have to turn myself in? Yeah
For a 20 year sentence or they take them right then. Yeah, not guilty or you know, boom guilty and they're like
You know, okay. Next thing, you know, they're they're handcuffed and they're going well. What's going on?
What's going on that because they're their lawyers would tell them the whole time
Right. Oh, don't worry. It's not guilty not guilty didn't even tell them that by the way if it's guilty
You're going in like didn't even work out a deal with the prosecutor like look if it is guilty
Can you please recommend that we let him turn himself in like because normally they'll say no
Sometimes they might say yes, but it's like no. I knew this guy. Um
His first name was bradley last name was bradley. Listen
bradley after a few years
He was just devastating. I think he did like 10 years on like a 25 year sentence or something and he just
His it was it was just a brutal brutal sentence that he got
And he eventually got it overturned
But I mean literally it took like 10 or 11 years before he got it overturned
His father served almost his entire sentence. His father got like
15 years or something literally was getting out by the time they won the appeal
I mean, that's how long they could drag it out to donovan davis
He's been locked up about spot five. Hold on. He's been locked up
five
Almost six years
He's at a camp right now. I mean this guy's six years for a seven on a 17 year sentence
And and he's been fighting the entire time think about it six years completely innocent right and and absolutely
He he hasn't even moved on. This is his appeals and this is a guy who has
Concrete evidence proving his innocence, right? Oh, and and it's it's getting worse all the time. Yeah, absolutely has concrete evidence
it's getting worse all the time
And and um, yeah, I can't there's other stuff going on. I'm not even gonna mention on the body
I'll tell you later like new stuff. Yeah, like you wouldn't believe the stuff that's happening like corrupt kind of fucking corrupt
Like don't get don't get a shadow band. Yeah, like no no no no no not like that not like that
um, just just in general like other things that are
people witnesses like
There's this one guy. Do you remember the guy I I refer to as um
Evil grew his he was he was one of the guys one of the guys that was saying that donovan had lied and donovan had
Stolen his money and convinced him to give all this money and this and that and this and that but really that was one of the guys
Who had brought in a bunch of investors? So so let's say I'm I forget his name
But basically evil grew said I'm he goes to all of his friends and says give
Give me money and we need to all invest money in in capital blue
So they all invest money. Well, then of course when it all collapses
He and he's put on the stand
He says donovan is the one that came to all of us
Well, all these guys are actually like donovan didn't come to us. You came to us
Yeah
Well and a lot of their money. So what ended up happening was this guy actually was running a ponzi scheme himself
He's been re indicted for stealing money from people
He actually was raising money to get a kickback from capital blue to get these guys to invest his money
Like there's all and then when he got on the stand, he blatantly lied about all kinds of stuff
So that guy that that's a whole thing
Um, uh, something avendetti or romandetti his name is romandetti chris romandetti
He's he's he's right now. He's indicted. He's waiting to go to trial
So there's all these other things that are happening. There's a couple other things. I can't even tell you bro
But it's it's like when I tell you what's happening. You're gonna be like, whoa
Good stuff. Anyway, um, but yeah, yeah, let's listen. It's all messed up
But six years you've been fighting for six years. You're not even through the process
Yeah, he hasn't even like lot that he just lost his appeal
Like for his for a new trial his appeal and his for a new trial
He just lost now. He's able to fight his what's called your 22 55
You're able to say
That basically my lawyers were ineffective and he's got a major great a great case for his lawyers being ineffective
So but but that's another three-year process, right? He'll spend 10 years before he's fighting before he's exhausted
his legal remedies
10 years
Before and by the way, is he still paying these lawyers with his own money? Yeah, he's still paying
Not these aren't the same lawyers. He fired them right away
I mean keep in mind one of his while he's got a wife and kids that are
Looking at Orlando that are wife fucking agonizing over this process the whole time. Yeah is christy christy davis
I talked to her all the time
I texted her a couple days just a couple days ago just on just new events that are that are happening in this case
that's fucked up
Look at Pete. Pete's been fighting his case for 20 years
20 years they
Who's Pete again?
Uh, Pete Rossini Rossini from the Breaking Bad story. Yeah, he's in drag. They've been drag like they could so that's a whole podcast on Pete
Yeah, it's called. I believe it's if you search for it on youtube. It's called
Matthew Cox the Breaking Bad case or something like that. I thought it was like the real breaking the real breaking bad case
Yeah, that's a fucking crazy ass story. Yeah, that that one actually that one's got like with the dirty federally
400,000. Yeah that podcast went crazy. He um
Yeah, yeah with the dirty FBI agents and the whole thing
But I mean look at Pete like literally think about it the whole thing for the u.s. Attorneys
They're like it doesn't really matter how I get the conviction because once I've got you convicted
And it I can drag it out 10 years while you're trying to unravel this whole thing
What if your sentence is 10 years right fight it? Yeah, go ahead
Fight it
You'll be fighting it when you're in the halfway house and where you're home
Starting your life over again. You you'll still be I can drag it out that long
You'll serve your whole sentence and you'll still be fighting it
But let's face it most people when they're basically done
They're not fighting anymore. I'm tired of it. I'm tired of the the legal bills might my lawyers all quit
I'm broke. None of my friends or family will let me borrow money from them anymore
I'm basically doing all the legal work myself and now I'm in the halfway house
And I have to work my job at mcdonald's and try and find an apartment. Do I have do I need to keep fighting this? It's over
It's over. I'm gonna lose. I'm I've lost even though even though
Even though I'm I feel I'm innocent and I've done nothing wrong. Fuck it. They're like they're done
They got me they beat you can't blame them. Right. I mean, that's it. So they just they're like I'm out
I just want to go on with my life reconnect with my you know, three daughters and
Hopefully my ex-wife won't you know, we'll let me see my
14-year-old or you know, I'm saying it's just ridiculous. Like I'm that's it. They're just
Devastated how are you doing with all your stuff with your probation officer and with your pain off your restitution and deal with everything after the fact
I love the way you're saying paying off. It's six million dollars. Yeah, you owe that six million dollars matt
Making payments matt you owe that six million dollars to the government that you stole from the god
I don't know that to the government by the way and to the to the to the banks
Yeah, like like 85 percent of those banks have all gone under so really the money that i'm paying and it is going to the government
Like they'll to the good people. I'll just keep it to the you stole the six million dollars that you stole from the good people
We owe that he owes this to ameriquest, but they they're insolvent and they went to the bank a bit
Should we give it back to mr. Pox?
Hey matt cox paid 20 this month. Uh, yeah, americorps is around anymore. You could keep it this week don't last month. I paid like
420 or something like 420 dollars. Oh, listen, some of my payments are like 800 bucks
400 bucks 600 bucks some some are like, uh, listen, I've had here's a thing like when covid hit
I'm like dead broke and i'm i'm on an unemployment and unemployment, of course is only paying like 600 dollars
Like i'm not making anything
You have to pay your 150. What are you talking about? I gotta pay my 150. I made 600 dollars on unemployment
150 mr. Cox or you're going back to prison
What do you do even eat for fucking for what's left over? Yeah 150 150 or fuck off
Thank god. I was living at at my friend stacey's house and she was cooking me meals every day like I mean
Listen, well, you shouldn't have ripped off those innocent bank executives. Oh my god. Oh, did I tell you this?
so the the the documentary that um the
What the one in amsterdam?
So the guy sitting here is like, okay, we need to be able to talk to other people
So can you give us some other names that we people you're still in comms? Okay
This guy so i'm giving them names of people right like this person this person. They're like, what about um
We really would like to talk to be able to talk to some victims. I'm like, well, i'm sure there's someone at bank of america
You could contact they're still around or
Son trust is still around. Well, we were thinking individual victims. I'm like, well, there's four of them
all single mothers
I'm like, so
You're telling me that out of the 60 some odd banks
and four individuals
You don't want to talk to
Who lost the bulk of the money?
You want to talk to people who lost the least bit of money that I didn't take money from but I caused them
To actually have to go and hire an attorney for four thousand dollars. You want to talk to that?
You don't want to talk to bank of america who lost two million. Yeah, you want to talk to them?
Well, you know, it's more of a i'm sure there's an executive you can talk to
Like why can't you talk to an executive because executive won't talk to because an executive won't break down and cry and tell you tell
You some sob story. It was so terrified and tormented. I I lost sleep, but I didn't even feel it right. It's like
He's not he's not affected. His life is not affected. Right. That's why but that's the bulk of the money
Like that's what that that's it. That's what I did like let's talk to them
They're like the sob story. We're really looking for someone that will cry. We want to tell you ruin their life for four thousand
Yeah
For you
You hired an attorney and paid him four thousand dollars and I ruined your life
If I ruined your life if four thousand dollars ruined your life
You you were hanging on by a thread, bro. And honestly a hurricane. I did you a bad storm something else was gonna knock him
He's only a matter of time
Sorry, do I did I does that come off unsympathetic? Not at all. No, I love her. Sorry. I feel feel about feel bad about that
Matt, I think we've hit. I think we've hit a wall here
How long have we been going austin? It's only two hours two hours two hours. That's a good one
What are you getting? What are you getting on your 35 38 percent 30 something this long 32 percent
What do you mean? We're talking about people. You know watch like the watch that make it all the way through about 32
I don't pay attention to that. Oh, we need to check. Yeah, we'll check it. We'll check it after we turn off turn off
I never look at that shit. Yeah, because you know like the shorter ones you'll get like
Some people are very analytical and very into the numbers of their podcasts and stuff and which is good
I'm sure it helps
You know like people like you or people like Graham Stefan. They're very if you have 10 years of videos cranked out
And you're you're constantly having people watch them
Yeah, that's good. I'm sure it's good to look at. I'm just not I just don't I never look at it
You don't read the comments either. I almost I respond to almost all my comments unless somebody I want to start
I was thinking about last night. I want to start responding to all my comments and just fucking responding to the trolls and just talking
Shit, I think it'd be fun to do that. I'm not doing that like honestly
I want to go start fights and light fires in the comment section. Listen, you know what's funny is um
In the comment section like some of these people were well first of all, they're hilarious like a lot of them are hilarious
Yeah, they are well, that's what's great about that's what I that's what I do love. I love the comments first of all
I'm not I'm not in the comments. I don't read them a lot because they're fucking they're really bad for my fucking
My brain got it makes me not feel good about myself
but
They are great because it's like a uh, it's like a uh, a creative writing contest whoever can come up with like the most
funniest articulate
Hilarious comment sentence or whatever it gets upvotes. So the the best one rises to the top
It's like a contest for whoever can fucking nail it the best, you know, I mean, it's fucking it's amazing
You know, well, I was gonna say one of the things that happens is this is weird
So I always click
like
Post all comments, you know, you can put so like hold the ones that are negative or hold the ones that are derogatory
Like it actually gives you an option like if somebody cusses or something they'll like hold it
I always say, um post them all
You know, I'll care of the algorithm. I don't care if it's what they say. It doesn't matter post them. So
I get a lot of times where I can on the on the actual, um studio
Where when you look at it on your phone, it'll show you the first few lines
And then when I click on it to watch the whole thing it says comment not found
right, so and I'm like
That doesn't make sense like I'll click it and
So a lot of times it actually still doesn't post it for some reason
Even though I said like and some of the comments like I'm sure that they're okay
Like that like if the guy said something minor, I can't imagine what he says to AI
You know, I mean, they're just like flagging shit if they say certain things or certain trigger words
They'll block it for you know, I mean, there's no way that's you know, anybody can monitor all those comments
They just there's flaws in the well, I mean I I know it
Yeah, yeah, it's got to be a flaw because some of them are just not and some of them, of course
Some of them are fucking awful. Yeah, some of them are really like they're they're pretty they're pretty vicious
Like I very quickly became hardened to it. Yeah, but like the first first week or two after that first podcast
I remember ready to argue
Have a conversation. Yeah, listen. I badgered some of those guys so bad. They took their comments down
They were like literally a poll bro. I'm sorry after thinking about it and what you said
I didn't think about it from that point of view. I have a different perspective now
I'm actually going to remove I'm actually going to edit my comment now and take it down like
Nice, I didn't even know that
Only Matt cock could do some shit like that tell you that
All right, plug your shit Matt. Tell us about your books. Tell us about your paintings. We're coming by shit
Dude, nobody's watched this long. Um, yeah, yeah books. I got books. There's a couple people here. I got books
I've got by shark in the housing pool
Paintings you can contact me. Danny's gonna put my email in the description
Go or just you looked at you like I am or go to my channel at uh inside true or matt cox inside true crime
Watch my videos
Like subscribe. You don't do any of that buy some shit. Yeah title lock share newt newt gingrich title lock subscribe
Totally subscribe. That's so awesome. Go to my channel subscribe. I need bro. I got 30,000
Almost 31,000 subscribers. That's fucking awesome. You're killing it on youtube, bro. You're killing it. It's so awesome
I remember when you were like, oh, I got a thousand. Yeah, I got a thousand. I was thrilled. I didn't know I had a thousand
Before I even knew he had to tell me what it was. I'm like one of these little things showing up. He's like, let me see give me this
You're like 900 subscribers. I don't even have a channel. Yes, you do
Yeah, that's awesome. Matt cox biggest true crime podcast on youtube
Go subscribe to him go buy his books and then buy life lock title lock insurance
Goodbye world. Adios. See you
