Do me a favor and take a picture of me.
My name is Lanny Poffel, my brother, more famous Randy Poffel, Randy Mario Poffel.
Two years my senior and he died in seven years ago.
It was May the 20th of 2011.
He was the macho man Randy Savage.
He was in the movie Spider-Man.
He was one of the greatest wrestlers that ever lived and definitely the greatest brother.
Come on this way.
Enter Amazon. Play The Beach Boys.
Shuffling songs by The Beach Boys.
I was leaping Lanny for many, many years because I'm a former gymnast.
And when that routine got old I was five years in the WWF as leaping Lanny.
And I was starting to, I thought, can that tired routine type.
So I was thinking boy genius would be a good gimmick.
You know the kid in class that was always, oh Mr. Carter, oh, you know.
So Vince says, how about the genius Lanny Poffel would do six thing yesterday and cut the name Lanny Poffel.
I just accepted a booking in Germany so I like to lay down and listen to YouTube German lessons.
My theory is why stand when you can sit, why sit when you can lay down.
It's my branch house. Also you'll find no toilet paper in my house.
I don't use it. I have a bidet. It saves money.
And I'm cleaner than anybody I ever met.
Do you wipe your dishes? Or do you wash them?
This is my massage chair.
Here it comes. Here it comes.
Oh, thank you. Watch this. It's coming.
Now.
Oh, nice. This is my favorite exercise to do at home.
Gets a nice deep stretch. I call them girls push-ups.
These are curls for the girls. Girls like big arms.
I'm going to go to the gun show.
This is my other balcony. And this is my television that keeps you from getting bored in the infrared sauna.
How did you get into wrestling?
Well, it was a baseball family. We all wanted to play baseball.
My brother was signed in 1971. St. Louis Cardinal, rookie league.
And he made $500 a month. No bonus.
And my father said, don't worry. I'll subsidize you.
Because even in 1971, there wasn't a lot of money.
Well, turns out my brother's a card shark. He could have me naked in 10 minutes.
And he played cards with all the bonus babies. And he never needed subsidy from my father.
He just took as much money from the bonus babies as he wanted.
And I asked him. Now, he never cheated. I said, did you ever bluff?
He says, no, I don't bluff. If you got him, you bet him. That's my motto.
This is Randy and I. It's our last Christmas together. He died seven years ago.
This is my father. He was featured in Ripley's Believe it or Not.
This is in 2002. My brother, my father, and myself for the Italian American Sports Hall of Fame.
And my brother, one year and 10 days before he died on the beach, Little Beach, with his beautiful wife.
Everybody always asked me, what was it like to be in the shadow of the greatest wrestler that ever lived?
And my answer is always the same. It was beautiful being in his shadow. I love it and I miss it.
I wish I were still in his shadow, but I'm not anymore. And he was an excellent person.
And people say, well, how did you feel good about yourself if he was the macho man and I was not?
I say, because I live by a certain credo, do your best and forget the rest.
I do not compare myself to the macho man. I just cheer him on.
Because a rose is never jealous of a violet and a violet is never jealous of a tulip.
They just bloom, do their own thing, and then they fall and become fertilizer for the next flower that might come along.
Pediatric Cancer Foundation. Every year, for 11 years in a row, I've participated and sang a little karaoke to raise money and cheer people up.
But I always believe that it's a visual thing. And if I'm going to be King Arthur from the Broadway musical Camelot by Lerner and Low, I've got to look the part.
Do me a favor and take a picture of me.
Hello. How you doing?
I've auditioned for America's Got Talent twice already. Didn't make the show. Not ashamed of it because I feel it's the best show on the air.
I feel it is the best show, and it gives the most opportunity to regular people to become extraordinary.
I actually went, I drove to Jacksonville, Florida, waited in line like everybody else, and I thought I did pretty good, but evidently not.
And then I went to Orlando, and I thought I did well, evidently not.
But here I am, third time's a charm, or even if it isn't, I'll come back again and again, and as long as I have a pulse, I will try.
The winter is forbidden till December, and exits March the 2nd on the dot.
By order, summer lingers through September in Camelot.
I have a deal with myself. I gave myself permission to fail, and I didn't give myself permission to not try.
I know it sounds a bit bizarre.
I have a very dear friend in Swindon, England, and he invited me to go to Tanzania to climb Mt. Calamandaro, and I said thank you, but no thank you.
This is my Mt. Calamandaro. This is my Tanzania. This is what I want to do.
Camelot, Camelot, I know it gives a person pause, but in Camelot, Camelot, those are the legal laws.
The snow may never slush upon the hillside. By 9 p.m. the moonlight must appear.
In short, there's simply not a more congenial spot for hardly ever aftering that here in Camelot.
Thank you.
Yes, Lady Popo. You got a little bit of everything tonight.
