I'm about to buy that car's food right there. She was looking like a nice lady. We'll buy her food.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I said I'm on the 90s tour, me and Vanilla Ice. I bet you knew who Vanilla Ice was.
I knew it.
So that's why I paid for it. That's what I'm telling you.
Right. Yeah.
We out here at the 90s tour and we buying coolers, free food, free Mickey D's, all type of shit, man.
Music
Ever since I came into the game, everybody always labeled me the White Rook Ross.
You know what I'm saying? It was always like the White Ross.
I guess because it's probably my beard. You know what I'm saying?
What made you get the Richie Rich tattoo on your face?
You know what I mean? I got Richie Rich. You're rich. I got rich with me, you know what I'm saying?
I just feel like it's part of my persona. You know what I mean?
A lot of people think they know a lot about me. They don't know shit about me. You know what I'm saying?
So, you know, everyone always thinks like, oh, I got, you know, millions of dollars from my parents when they died.
You know, my background. My grandfather was a hustler.
You know what I mean? So it's only right that it's going to hit me the same way it hit him, you know?
What'd your grandfather do?
Yeah, start an auto trailer.
Music
But I come from a struggle, you know what I'm saying? I come from my family, you know, alcoholics.
My father died. He was an alcoholic, you know what I'm saying?
You know, both of my grandmas died of cancer on me.
You know what I'm saying? I was homeless for, you know, about a year.
You know what I'm saying? So, like, why are you homeless when your family's multi-millionaire, man?
It doesn't matter. This is my life. It's not their life. No one's just going to change your life for you.
You see this right here?
Yeah.
So that right there is my first arena show ever.
I'm about to pass it right here, right now.
Music
I don't know who the kid is. They don't know they're Y.O.
Who the fuck is you?
Music
I'm about to buy y'all food. Come on. I'm about to buy their food. Let's go.
Music
Hi!
I'm about to buy that car's food right there. She was looking like a nice lady. We'll buy her food.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
The white car, right?
Yeah, right here.
Yes, I'm sorry.
I'm buying y'all food.
What's that?
I paid for your food.
Why did you pay that?
Because you look like a nice lady.
No, seriously.
I bought your food.
Did you get a hunt?
Yeah, I did.
Here you go. That's very sweet. Well, thank you very much.
Uh-huh.
Very kind of you.
We're here for the 90s tour tonight.
What's that?
I said I'm on the 90s tour. Me and Vanilla Ice. I bet you knew who Vanilla Ice was.
I knew it.
So that's why I paid for it.
That's why I'm telling you.
All right.
Yeah.
We're out here at the 90s tour and we're buying coolers, free Mickey D's, all type of shit, man.
Music
I always told myself, I become like, I was like, watch, I'm making the music and then I want to drive NASCAR this shit.
You know what I'm saying?
I've been doing crazy.
I like the rush, man.
I live for the rush.
Yeah.
And anything is like, makes me feel like a crazy rush.
I'm with it.
You know what I mean?
Like just wild shit.
Like jumping off yachts into the ocean where there could be a shark in the water.
I give a fuck.
Round and round on jet skis, going 70 miles an hour with no light vest on and flying off.
You don't want to swallow my gold grill because I'm floating in the water.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, I remember we were doing shit.
I went to the show in Orlando and I was talking to my dog.
Like I got the juice.
I said, look, I'm for the triple kiss.
A girl everywhere we go for the whole day.
And I triple kissed a girl to all five or six places we went to.
What's a triple kiss?
Triple kiss?
Like me and two girls.
Oh, okay.
Triple kiss.
Like, because I had fans on me.
My girls be taking me like, yo, let's go in the back room.
They don't want to suck me up real big and shit.
You feel me?
Even though I'm going through my phone and you see this.
This is like the first one.
I keep this one.
So that was the first memory.
So then we went to the parking lot right after the show.
You know what I'm saying?
I just be having so much crazy shit on my phones.
That's why I've been keeping so many phones.
Like, look, I told you earlier right here.
This is buddy's leg in Australia.
You know what I'm saying?
This right here is the girl that got my name tattoo on her hand.
I don't think you ever see it.
Yeah.
I'm going to try to blow.
You know what I'm saying?
These people think I forget about them.
I don't forget about them.
You know, this is the front of the newspaper.
We're not doing my party.
You know what I'm saying?
I mean, I got so many memories on my phone, man.
There's so much stuff that we do.
I got tangled up.
Where he wrapped his verse on it, it's all different.
I'll show you.
The instrumental is completely different than what I have.
Yeah, it's completely different.
At the last show.
Yep.
Posey out of blow is doing, you know, a collaboration song with him.
So he'll need a mic.
Right?
And, I mean, Rob will.
What are the plays that do?
See, there's like 100,000 in the first week.
That's like so many different sites.
I just put it everywhere I can put it.
Ross isn't getting on anybody's song, you know what I'm saying?
We're Ross hard to get to, too.
It was good, Ross fucking me.
Ross been watching me for like five, six years, you know what I'm saying?
So Ross was just like, hey, I'm going to do a song with you.
Send me a song.
I said, man, I got a song with my life on it.
What was his reaction to that?
Ross?
He was listening to new school music.
He's talking old school, you know what I'm saying?
So he was like, hell yeah, that was my shit.
He was super excited.
It's almost like I made something happen for them, too, you know what I'm saying?
Sometimes when we do the video, it's going to be epic.
No, stay there and just check it.
Check, check, check, check.
Manila's crying for you out of blue.
One, two, check.
One, two, check.
Check, check, check.
One, two, check.
There you go.
Give it a different hard check.
One, two, check.
One, two, check.
Perfect.
There you go.
Okay.
But like our whole circle, we got crazy shit, man.
We could pull up on you on a helicopter.
I could pull up on you on a Lambo.
I could pull up on you on a ghost.
I mean, my whole circle, everybody out here getting it.
We get into the money.
So like everything we talking about, we doing, you know what I'm saying?
I say I'm Trumping, you know what I'm saying?
This is how I'm fucking with Trump is what it is.
You know what I'm saying?
No, I'm not, I don't agree with everything Donald Trump does.
I didn't grow up with Donald Trump, you know what I'm saying?
But when I put out my freaking Silver Spoon video,
the whole world said I was Donald Trump's nephew.
People think they know so much about stuff.
They don't know nothing about it.
You know what I'm saying?
You just come and see us coming through on helicopters
and all this crazy ass shit.
You know what I'm saying?
I like Trump.
One thing I like about Donald Trump is a year ago
when he said to me, the president of the United States,
everyone said, yeah, good fucking luck.
So when I tell people, you know, the biggest rapper in America,
they like, yeah, all right.
Well, Trump went against the world and made it happen.
I feel like I'm going against the world to make this shit happen.
What's the difference with me saying I fuck with Trump
and then GZ coming out and my president's black?
My Lambo's blue.
Right.
I didn't give a fuck, you know what I'm saying?
Right.
What's the difference with that?
He's just putting on.
So I'm just putting on.
I said, man, shit.
Congratulations.
Trump won.
I feel like Florida's a melting pot where other places I go to,
like on the road, it's still, like, separated.
Yeah.
So like, I go into certain places and they look at me like,
in Florida, I'm a thug-ass white boy, you know what I'm saying?
Right.
But in other countries, it's like, yo, you're a fucking white supremacist.
You're a white supremacist.
Look at motherfucker.
You know what I'm saying?
What the fuck's up with you?
I give you this suburban legend on my lips.
Someone tagging me the other day and said,
what's that, the new KKK?
Kicking with Rich.
Tell Chuck, just bam, hit it.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
Just be ready, man.
You know we saw him when you hear it.
Get ready to hit it.
Ready and sweaty.
Come on.
Hey.
Where's my mic?
No flashlight.
No flashlight.
No.
That's why it's so hard for me.
I was putting out so much music because, you know, I got.
They always say one song can change your life.
And I was focused on like one or two records.
But I kept pushing and pushing.
But I was lucky enough to grab 10,000, 12,000, 13,000 core fan base.
I gotta say it all the time.
I'm like, okay, people want a millions of fans.
You know, give me 1,000 fans.
That gave me $100 a year.
But that's the thing.
It's like, I personally think a click and a fan are two different people.
Yeah.
Somebody that'll click for free in the house,
they'll click on anything.
Definitely.
They'll click on shit they hate.
No.
Yeah.
Of course.
You know what I mean?
But somebody that will come up and pay you for it or come out to see the concert or,
you know.
I'm not blessed.
Even my homies would be around me.
They'd buy my shirts.
You know what I'm saying?
Like everyone who's around me, none of my homies,
they don't know how hard I'd be working with this thing.
What's that shirt called?
I got it.
What I'm saying is they see the hustle,
then, you know, they know what you're going through.
So I don't hear you.
So what was your best advice to be for an artist?
I mean, you're already in the midst of it.
My best advice is always if you're in school, staying in school,
if you got a job, keep your job, make music your hobby until it becomes lucrative enough
to become a career.
That's what it is.
It's like people think, oh, if I quit everything and do this 24-7, I'm going to get paid.
And it's not like that.
There's a lot of people grinding 24-7 that they ain't eating.
And it's worse because, you know, at least they know if you have a day job,
you've got a roof over your head, car to drive, you know,
clothes on your back, put food on your stomach.
So you sit across me, you know, for me at a table, I'm not thinking you're desperate.
But you can see desperation in somebody's eyes if they really need this deal to, like,
eat or they're going to lose their apartment or something like that.
You can see that.
Thank you.
