["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
Hi, I'm Cliff Deppart, and this is
Conservative Grounds, the first
conservative coffee shop in America.
Welcome.
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
Y'all fired.
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
The day after the Starbucks in
Arizona asked the six police
officers to leave, my friend
and I decided, let's start a
place that's welcoming to everybody
and would never throw anybody out.
So, it took about a month to
formulate our concept, and then
we followed our corporate papers.
A month later, we signed the lease,
and about five and a half months later,
we finished completion on Conservative
Grounds, which is hopefully one of
many across America, because there
should be a place that everybody
can feel welcome to come to and speak
their mind and give whatever
political opinions they want to give.
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
Well, we're Republican.
Absolutely.
And we definitely support Trump
and every Republican.
And I'm the Governor's first-grade
teacher, by the way, and Governor
DeSantis, I'm his first-grade
teacher, I'm very proud to say
that we are definitely Republicans.
And when you can see this place like
this, when all of us, one mind
and one spirit come together,
Republicans believing
in what is right for our country,
it's a wonderful thing.
When all this problem came
about building the wall,
should they do it, and should they not,
I said, you know, that would be a good
title for a song.
Gotta build that wall.
Gotta build the wall.
This is United States of America.
We have freedom.
If you don't like it, don't come,
but find another place to go to.
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
We gotta build the wall.
That's the right thing to do.
Crime is gonna fall.
We know that it's true.
Come back legally.
We're welcome of you.
We're welcome of you with open arms.
We built this country
with blood and grit.
We never backed down.
We never quit.
We built the flag.
We honor our fallen heroes.
We gotta build the wall.
That's the right thing to do.
Crime is gonna fall.
That you know that it's true.
Come back legally.
You know what I'm saying.
Actually, my folks came here first,
and I had seen a new story on this,
and I just figured this was a great place
for like-minded people to come around.
Good God-loving, freedom-loving people
to come and enjoy some good coffee.
So we're gonna get that wall.
Do you have a responder?
No?
Because if you know of anybody that's here,
they can sign our Wall of Honor in there.
Wow.
So of all the reasons we did Conservative Grounds,
this was the most important one.
When the police officer were asked to leave Starbucks,
we decided on that day
that that should never happen again.
So we came up with this whole concept,
but then we came up with this.
The Wall of Honor,
In the military, the veteran is able and allowed to sign our wall of honor.
We've got multiple World War II vets that have signed it, Navy SEALs, Green Berets.
This is probably the most important thing of this entire coffee shop, is this wall.
Well right now we've got two or three knives sold, a lot of the girls are buying stickers
and then the flags are kind of popular, hats are kind of like 50-50.
Mainly knives for the guys.
It's hot-loving, I mean for an American to stand up for our president with all the problems
that we're having today and people trying to get him out of office and this is the man
that came to save our country, I honor this gentleman that opened this shop and I just
really appreciate everything he's doing and we need more Americans standing up for our
country and I think this is the year, I think the next four years when President Trump gets
re-elected, it's going to be phenomenal and it's because of people like him and it could
make me cry because I'm so patriotic.
This is America, you know, we got to get back to the olden days, saluting our flag and no
kneeling and it's terrible and I blame the parents.
All the professors in college, everybody's for the Democratic Party and we need it back
for the people, you know, we can't keep greasing the pockets of politicians.
Defending the waters, defending the unborn.
Exactly, he's a true American, he's a patriot, you know, and I just love that as well as
I love all our servicemen and our first responders and we've got to get back to honoring these
people, not looking at them like they're a problem to society.
We need to bear arms.
I wanted to donate to the facility that is actually good for all conservatives.
It's a wonderful establishment, I'm sure he'll do well, the food's good, the company's good,
the building's good.
I can come here with my Trump shirt on and my Trump hat and not get yelled at or picked
at or have to worry about somebody being offended and just be with people that I have a lot
in common with.
There's three years of things in the world, an empty gun, a dull knife and liberals, they
don't do nothing for anybody, a big time Trump supporter, suddenly they finally came to their
senses and stepped up and give Starbucks their money.
We are here to support this awesome cafe that's just opening up, delicious coffee, we just
had donuts, delicious and we love that he is a strong Trump supporter.
We can wear our Trump shirts in here anytime we want and hopefully we won't be hassled
like we have been on the streets when we were around.
Personally, I look over here and I want to say, I wonder how many of these people supporting
Trump are on welfare and my guess is it's not a high volume.
I've seen it on Facebook and I love the concept.
Patriots come here and be peaceful and it's just great to hang with liked people.
What is this place for you to do personally?
America.
Land of the free.
Capitalism.
Good coffee.
It means to me that people who are of conservative values do have more of a place in the mainstream
than a lot of people might think.
A lot of places where I think we don't feel quite as welcome around others, it's good
to see conservative folks getting together, being welcome here and for that matter we
welcome folks even who aren't conservatives as well.
Hey guys, I'd like to thank you guys for showing up today and this is awe-inspiring
and I'm unbelievable the response we've got and I just want to say thank you and just
so you know, we're going to be selling coffee tomorrow too and other days.
Okay, he's long-winded, let's go.
All right, ready?
All right guys, thanks guys.
People often talk about the silent majority.
Well, you don't have to be silent to be in here.
You can come in here and you don't have to be the silent majority.
You can just be who you are and talk about whatever political vain you want to be a part of.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA
