Johnny Mitchell thanks for coming in. Yes, sir, man. Thanks for fucking having me here, dude
You're like a social media sensation right now. You're like blowing up all over YouTube Instagram
Thank you talking and like you started all this shit less than two months ago. Is that what it is?
Soon as Andrew Tate got banned. I saw my I saw the the void in the market, you know, and I stepped in
That's where they're calling me my friends are fucking break breaking my balls back in LA
They're like you're the Andrew Tate of comedy man. I'm like, I don't want that
I don't want that please. How much time you spent in full? Is this your first time in this like part of Florida?
Yeah, yeah, I've only been to Miami pretty much to do comedy. Right. That makes sense. Yeah
Yeah, this is a weird. This is a very different town than where where you live right now. Yeah, well LA
Yeah, yeah
For sure it's so funny because you made a comment when you walked in here about like this town
This kind of like bum-fuck Florida town we're in right now. Yeah, it looks like cops
It looks everything in this everything in Florida looks like the show cops. There's no sidewalks, right?
It's just it's like it looks like there should be a couple of
People that escaped from an insane asylum walking down the street a couple of crackheads, but no we're in a nice area actually
Yeah, there's a couple men not not really it's a decent area. It's okay. It changes quick
It changes quick. There's like one you could be like a plantation style house and then yeah, there's a gas station
Yeah, it's funny that most people who make all the like the comments or that notice this kind of town and where it sticks out to them
All those people are from LA. They're always the one to make the comment
Yeah, I think the only like the last person who in here was freaking out
They was Jamie Kennedy when he crawled in here. He was like looking over his shoulder. He's like, where's the fucking crackheads?
He's a bit of a hypochondriac. I know Jamie quite well. Oh, do you really?
He's a bit of a hypochondriac. Where's the crack kids, man? He still won't touch my hand like after cobit
Like really still he's still like elbow bumps me. Oh my god. I'm like, it's over
Forget it. Just give me a goddamn handshake weirdo. That's hilarious. Yeah, um, and your podcast is fucking fascinating
I just listened to every episode. So it's like you brother
It's like the format of that you just decided to tell your own story
Episodically of like your life in crime and then kind of transition into interviewing people or yeah, exactly like I
Would watch, you know in my youtube feed
I see, you know
Every different kind of like drug and prison show because they're fascinating, right? But it's either like some
You know big cholo dude
That is like the craziest shit I've seen in prison and it's fascinating
But you can't listen to it for more than like five minutes because it's just the quality is usually poor
Uh, you know, there's no kind of production value to it
Or it's like some, you know oxford educated guy from vice news who's like, let me tell you about the seno lower cartel
It's like, no, no, no motherfucker. I'll tell you about the seno lower cartel. I've been with those guys
So I was like, maybe that's what I could do. I could do
Like a prison and a drug and a crime show
But from the perspective of somebody that's been in the life
but who also can kind of
I don't know articulate it bring like a news element to it like a news quality
Uh element to it. So that's that's where I got the idea from but no, I didn't I didn't plan to make an episodic like
Track it through from the beginnings. I just kind of I just kind of started
I just kind of went and it
organically kind of became this like chronological
Uh thing, you know, what gave you the idea to start it?
I think because I wanted I tell a lot of jokes on stage
You know, I do comedy I do stand-up comedy for the fans that don't know
Uh, and I tell a lot of these prison stories. Uh, just because it's such good humor
So it's such good, uh fodder for comedy
and
I wrote a book actually during the pandemic days of the trap and uh, it was pretty well received. So I was like, well, what if I
extrapolated these stories and made it like
like true crime
Documentary style like what if I what if I told you actually how drug trafficking works because we always hear about like
Uh, you know the drug cartels drug routes. Well, what does that mean? What's a drug route?
How do you actually make money selling cocaine?
What what is prison actually like day to day?
What what do these things mean? I didn't see a lot of people doing that. So I was I don't know
That's just kind of what motivated me to get going with it
And how long ago did you get out of prison? Oh, it's been years. It's been like over a decade over a decade. Yeah
Yeah, I came home in 2012 beginning of 2012 and I was on parole at a three-year tail
But I just blew parole and just moved to la like immediately like I went home live with my parents
Uh, saved up some money and moved to la within like five months of being out of prison and just started writing screenplays
Uh, I started doing stand-up comedy. Yeah, so you were like hyper hyper motivated hyper motivated
Fuck yeah. Oh my god for anybody anybody who's like loafing. I recommend prison
I mean, I recommend a little prison bit for everybody because
When you lose time like when you see the days of your life just
Getting flushed down the toilet
Your nothing is a better motivator like you want to you want to get that time back
Yeah, you know what I mean? And so it's like a really also
I was went too far with it. Like I was like manic when I got out, you know, and I probably had ptsd from c and shit
in there or whatever but
But yeah, it was it definitely changed my life
For the better. I think you know, I mean, I do regret like losing all this money I made but
I think it I think it gave me direction. You know, yeah, man
I say it all the time because I've had quite a number of uh, like x cons in here and people that have
Uh been in prison for a long period of time
Yeah, for long periods of time and they're the most interesting people I've ever talked to
Yeah, I always have the most character. They always have they just they're just the most interesting people
Yeah, for some reason something about
spending lots of time
Staring at a wall reflecting on your life and your previous experiences. It does something to you that is just
Unique. Yeah. Well also criminals
I don't know what comes first sometimes. I think the personality comes first
You know, I think that personality that proclivity whatever it is to
You know, like Roger Reeves, right? Pablo Escobar's main cocaine pilot. Like what is it about?
There's something in him
Uh an angst an energy that uh is just in him naturally that made him want to like
You know go be a bad boy go, you know step outside of like norms
That's because that's what being in prison. That's what breaking the law is. It's like it's uh, it's antisocial behavior
So that's kind of that's kind of in all of us. I think
um, but prison
Either makes you worse makes you
Really go further into the darkness or it makes you channel that
antisocial
Inclination into something positive. So it made me want to go into show business and become a stand-up comedian
That's definitely antisocial. You know, like that's that's not normal either. You know what I mean?
Like neither is podcasting. No, right? Yeah, for your parents are like, what the fuck is this? You know
Uh, this is a job. But so so yeah, that's I think it comes first
I think that being interesting prison doesn't make you interesting gives you interesting stories
But you end up in there because you have something different about you. Yeah, rogers are very unique case
I think he's interesting. I mean he is like he's such a soft smoky spoken polite gentleman
Yeah, but the guy's escaped prison like eight times. Yeah, he's been in mexican jail getting tortured almost to death
Unbelievable so
In your early years, what how did you get into drug trafficking?
Well, I started out a drug dealing right just like from the bottom like everybody
Pretty much everybody unless you're like, you know
The son of a mexican kingpin and you kind of just get handed it down to you in america
Everybody starts just with hand-to-hand sales. So, you know, it was the early 2000s
Uh, and it was just kind of the culture in the northwest
Uh, and in california on the west coast. That's that was where like the revolution happened where
You know in the 90s
Bud weed started to be grown en masse
in northern california southern oregon and it kind of started to replace
The mexican marijuana that dominated the u.s market up until then, right?
So so we were on the precipice of that. So weed was abundant. It was cheap
Uh, and it was just a way for high school kids to make money. It was like I described
The the green rush of that era of the early 2000s as like the you know, the crack boom of the 80s for
You know black people in the ghetto like everybody was everybody was involved with it somehow
I knew multiple people that you know went away for for selling the shit
So that's just kind of how it started. I wanted to smoke weed for free and I always wanted to
I was fascinated with it to be honest with you. I was always like I think
I think that's
The show the connect that I do now. I think that like that is my fascination
With it. I've always been fascinated. I would see people
Older people
You know older brothers of people that I went to school with
Like making a living from selling pot. I'm like, how do they do this?
Like how I thought you had to be scarface to make money selling drugs
So how do you how do you get the money to buy? How do you get how do you find people to buy the drugs?
How do you find people to sell you the drugs? It was like, uh
It was this fascinating the underworld was fascinating because like drug dealing. It's like
It's like magic. I say that in one of my episodes
They used to call the columbian cocaine kingpins of the 70s mahikos magicians
Like how do you just take this thing and just turn it into money? How does the street bring you back money?
It was like it's like the invisible hand. So I was um
Yeah, so I just wanted to see like how far I could go with it
So I was just started off just like buying ounces
You know dishing them off to my friends losing money. I lost money for years or I would make like almost no money
Um, so it was like business. It was like it was having a small business
and uh, it just kept growing very steadily and we would have setbacks and robberies and police raids
And all man are a crazy shit
And yeah, I didn't I didn't make you know, I didn't get rich until
You know my last two years before I fell before I got locked up. That's when you're getting into cocaine and stuff
Yeah, but I didn't get rich selling coke. I got rich moving pot. Really? Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, the markup is it's it's hard to make a lot of money selling coke
It's hard to make a lot of money selling. I thought it was the opposite
It's you can make good money selling small amounts of coke
But to get rich selling coke. I mean think about it
If I could make a thousand dollars profit per pound
it's
Feasible it's easy not easy, but it's it's much easier
to sell 20 pounds of weed a week that it is to sell
I don't know 10 kilos of coke a week because way more people smoke pot than they use coke, right?
Right, so I got I mean depending on where you're at though, right?
Like depending on what city you're in or what country but I was moving it all over the country
So but you were based in northern california. I was based in ori. I was based in portland, oregon
So I was shipping it to new jersey upstate new york. Oh, you were shipping most of yeah, florida, oklahoma
Um, philadelphia, right? So it was chicago and this was this is in the era
This was a very unique era where we could get wholesale
Weed cheap and the markup
You know on the east coast and the midwest was insane
So and we knew that was coming to an end
So that's why we were like we got a
Good before before they start legalizing this shit and prices start to fall like we have to we got to make millions now
it was it was it felt like
It felt like how the mob must have felt in the 20s like the chicago mob. They were like
They can't keep booze illegal forever. They can't even keep it illegal for a long time
Like this is insane. Everybody needs to drink. It's the only way ugly people fuck
It's the only way it's the only way most people get together and procreate get through their shitty jobs
We got to get rich now and that's what they did. So
That's that's kind of how I felt. I was like this is
This is a very unique historical moment
Where a guy like me who's not
I was never part of a drug cartel. I would re-up from multiple sources. Some of them were
cartel growers
And I but I wasn't connected. I wasn't a killer. I never carried a gun usually
And I could just go I was just a small businessman
Who could make a million dollars a year plus just with this like
You know, I didn't feel like it was a huge trade, right 80 a hundred pounds a month
Could make me a million bucks at how old?
22 23 22 making a million bucks a year. I imagine making just 80 90 thousand a month
Just clean man. You don't know what to do with that kind of money
You don't you don't know where to hide it
You don't know how to act. I mean, no, that's just insane to when you have that much money at such a young age
That fucks you up. Yeah, totally. It it hooked me for life, dude
It hooked me for fun with that kind of money at such a young age
I would just working 24 seven. I was working 24 seven. I was working 24 seven
I you know, I was flying to but I would go everywhere, right? Like I would
Um, I would go to new york city for the weekend and just be walking around midtown Manhattan staying and like, you know, luxury
Hotels luxury suites with like, you know, Chinese businessman and I was dressed in sweatpants and like a fucking
You know a backwards hat and I got 50 grand on me in cash like
You know what I mean? It was a superpower. Yeah, just shit like that, you know, I could go to columbia
And whenever I wanted I I could go I could just do anything go anywhere. That's mainly it, you know
Like I didn't I was never ostentatious with my money because I always, you know, I saw the future. I'm like
This is a this is a golden goose. Don't fuck this up. Like I need to stash this money
And flip it into something legit
After I get out of the game. The problem is I I could never get out of the game
It just keeps keeps bringing you back keeps luring you back. I'm like, oh one million is good
But two has got such a nice ring to it. What were you doing with all the cash?
Like where was I putting it? Yeah. Well, what was your plan? Were you like buying real estate?
The plan the plan was to start because this was like the advent of
Amazon really becoming, you know, 20 to 2009 2010. It was like the advent of like online commerce
So e-commerce so that the plan was to like just start
Buying shit and cash and then reselling it online and legitimizing it right making a company around it taking that profit
Right declaring it paying tax on it
And that's how you get the money in the system
Okay, and then using that
Laundered money to yeah buy real estate buy other cash businesses, etc
So here's the thing like when you buy a house, for example
the easiest example
And you have you have to fucking go when you go to the bank or you go to a mortgage broker
You got to show them your bank account. You got to show them your records. Where does that money come from?
How many people are paying you each month? Right? Where does it like so? How do you justify?
All these cash deposits. Well, that's that's exactly why I had start
I'd set up a company right and then I was buying goods, you know sneakers, right?
This was the beginning of so I would buy, you know a pair of
Nikes, you know Portland is the headquarters Nike headquarters there
So I buy, you know some Nike shoes and then I would just resell them online on ebay to you know some guys in Japan
for like a you know 500 markup
And boom you take that money that money's run through your company
So that's legit. That looks like legit money and you and you pay taxes on it
So the only the only sketchy part is how did you get the money to buy the shoes in the first place? Yes
That's the big. That's the rub, but that's what's the hardest to prove
also
Feel like I'm giving your right feeling. Yes. So what do you do about that a lesson on that? Well, uh, there's nothing
There's no there's no foolproof way to launder money, you know, there's no foolproof foolproof way to do crime
But yeah, that's so yeah in theory they could try they could go
If the IRS wanted to look deep enough
They could say well, how'd you get the money to buy this and this and this and then you wouldn't really have an answer
but also
They don't really have an answer. Right. It's why they can never put people they convict of like tax fraud away for too long because
The burden of proof is on the state or the the federal government to convict you so
Most of that is circumstantial
So that's why I always try to keep the money and the drugs separate because if you busted me with a bunch of money or you or
you know, I got um
audited by the IRS and just like you said they said well, how did you get uh, 10 000 bucks to buy
You know, all these like, uh, whatever designer purses that you were going to resell
Well, sure. Maybe I don't have an answer, but you don't either
And it's your job right to and if you can't link drugs or illegal activity to that money. Yeah, well
You're probably just going to give me a fine. Right. It's probably what it's going to be
You know, or if it's an egregious amount of money that I haven't declared with then there might be some
Prison time, but you know, it's not going to be like, uh, they can't make a riko trial out of that
If they can't link the legal activity to that that money
And I guess I guess the example I made with like like loans and mortgages
It doesn't really matter if you're just buying shit with cash
If you're going to somebody and buying their house just with a fucking bunch of cash, right
You don't have to worry about any of that. Right, right, but how you gonna buy a 300 000 house with cash?
That's that's
You might know that better than I do
I'm asking you. I'd like to know
I'm in the market. Well, you tried to buy a house in columbia. Yeah. Yeah, but I know but the the the
scam there was
You couldn't even do it in columbia at this at this point, you know
Like they're they're money laundering laws because they've been, you know, influenced by the us for so long now, right?
So they have
Relatively strict money laundering laws too
But my plan was because I wanted to buy a hotel because at this time this was yeah
2010 columbia is starting to blow up as like a tourist destination. So is this like when you
Before you actually moved on there
Uh, this is at the same time. Okay. So this is the first time you went down there. Exactly
I would spend a lot of time down there. I would come I would go back and forth
I have a good friend who lived there for years. He met his wife there. Yeah, that's the best place lived in menaging for like
Probably 15 years. Oh, wow, dude. He's a straight pysad at that point. That's insane, dude
I I couldn't I couldn't live there long term. I'm too tall
I stick out too much. I swear to god. That's the reason I'm way too tall
You're just at six six
You're bopping around columbia. You just I don't know
I just always felt like there just could be a bullet that could just fly out and fucking hit me
You know what I mean? Like I just I never feel totally and maybe I just seen too many movies. Maybe I just met too many
You know gangsters, right? That's probably what it is. But I
I don't feel
Even though people are like, oh, it's so safe. It's columbia and everything's changed. I'm like, uh
I know for a fact that hasn't so I was always kind of paranoid but
um
But yeah, I would go down there and I had this idea to buy a hotel on the coast in cartagena and
Actually, this town called Santa Marta, which is like it's like an hour or so outside of cartagena and if I man
This was like the perfect
Like getting in early on like a booming like tourist economy
So what I was going to do was I was
Going to buy the have you bought hotels and shit before it out like anymore. No, no, no
No, no, no, this is going to be the first foray into it
But I had some guys were going to run it for me who I had met traveling
Actually, like a couple of like a couple of americans who wanted to live there
So I was like perfect
I'll joint venture because I don't want to run this shit. You guys run it live here
You know what I mean? Make sure everything's profitable
Um, so the way we were going to do it was they wanted the guy who was going to help me buy it
He was a money launderer. He wanted
To basically basically this is how it was set up
The buy price of the hotel was 300 grand
And he was going to charge me 100,000 on top of that to do the laundering to do the washing
He had a contact in the united states
Right, he had a columbian guy who worked with him
On the east coast. So he said what you're going to do is just bring him cash
You're going to bring him the money and then I'm going to buy
With my own money in columbia
I'm going to buy this hotel for you and then I'm once I know that I have
My contact has your dollars in the states
I'm just going to transfer the deed of trust over to you
See what I mean? Super clean that way and he was charging you 100 grand just to do this. Yes. Okay. Yes
I was going to say because I I don't think I caught that on your episode
So I was immediately like why the fuck is this guy doing this for you for nothing?
Like I would immediately be so suspicious of that. Yeah. No, let's make it 100 grand
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. This is what this guy does. Okay. So
So, yeah, that's just like a very clean way, right? Like if you have, you know, the columbians have a diaspora in new york in queens
And so you just take, you know, you take a foreigner's cash. Would you call it diaspora? So they have like, yeah
So they have a big columbian community in
In new york and on the east coast. Okay. So they a lot of drug traffickers
Coming over there originally from the 70s a lot of them stayed
So they have a lot of communication back and forth. They got a lot of criminal activity going in and out
Of, you know, from collie medellin to to queens, you know, okay
Yeah, they still smuggle drugs from columbia directly to the states. They just don't do it
And mass most of it goes through mexico
You know, you know, I met girls that like were mules that would swallow pellets of coke
Uh, you know, they braid them into their hair
They, you know, they make the pellets like dark and they fit them inside of these girls like
Weaves and they walk through the airport that way
Um, you know people wrap through miami
Uh, yeah, you know or or wherever, right? Whatever airport they're flying through. Okay, but um, you know
Uh, I heard of one a guy that had like wrapped
Like his little
Neese his little like four-year-old niece, you know, it's stuff some cocaine and or teddy bear wrapped it around her legs and shit
I mean, they're they're just throwing the book at it. That's a good idea. It is a good idea
Or people aren't going to be searching babies for or old people too
They do that with like infirm people that are in wheelchairs, right? They build them inside of the wheelchair
So they're they're less likely to be searched
But you can't get weight in like that. That's really it's difficult to scale a business
Doing stuff like that because how many kilos can you really fit around, uh, you know, a little girl's legs?
A couple of them maybe I've heard some horror stories about people like putting them in
Like pellets and then swallowing them and then yeah busting. Oh god, dude brutal, right?
brutal way to go
It would be great at first when that shit first hits you you're like damn. Yeah, the first two seconds
Uh-oh a little too high
Oh man. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a Maria full of grace. That's the classic
Movie about that. Have you seen that? I don't think I've seen that. Oh, it's a great movie
And it's about, you know impoverished girls from the compo from the countryside in columbia
Um, and they get approached by a guy, right? And they and they're a hard up
You know one of them just found out she's pregnant. I mean this is you know, obviously you're not going to swallow cocaine pellets unless you really are desperate, right?
Yeah, and and and it's just about their experience
You know swallowing shit and flying into new york and
Yeah, it's it's a dirty dirty game man. It's a dirty game
So when you met this guy who was helping you
Go to new york and pay the guy in new york
Yeah cash the 300 grand cash and then he was gonna buy this hotel for you
Yeah, what happened when you went and met the guys in new york and gave him the cash
Well, I never even got around to it
Because that guy ended up getting the guy in columbia the guy who was laundering my money ended up getting killed
So he never even went through with it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How wild is that?
So I could have and that was some totally like separate shit
but I could have and I and I
And I tried to call down to figure out what happened
They think
That that guy that money launderer was also
Either like a dea agent or he was like working for an opposing cartel was like playing both sides
Because a lot of these money launderers they deal with a bunch of different cartels money, you know what I mean? Yeah, and um
And so, you know, he might have been informing on a different cartel like playing both sides like giving up information
So, you know, who knows but I dodged a
Huge figurative and literal bullet with that I think and you were banging his wife
Damn, dude
Why you had to bring that up Danny?
Wasn't his wife. It was on your podcast. It was his fiance, dude. Oh, it was it was his fiance. It's different. Oh, that's fair game
The guy was a scumbag the guy was a real scumbag. You don't have to justify. He was a and I fuck so good
I
Judging you he uh, yeah, so his his fiance was
You know all the cart all the criminals it's passed down through the family
So the girl that I his fiance the girl I was uh, you know running around with
She you know, her uncles are part of a big, you know drug trafficking organization down there. Um, you know, it's all very
incestuous, so yeah, it was uh
It was fucking surreal. I was like I started out as a middle-class kid from Portland, Oregon
Selling dime sacks little fucking gram bags a pot and now here I am like running around with
Like kingpins, right? It was uh, yeah, dude. You get what you wish for you get you really you really like become who you want to be
And that's I realized even even negatively. I'm like wow. I really like
In a certain way. I wanted this and now I had it and I was like, uh, this is a bad feeling
That's when I realized I wasn't a gangster was like when that happened
When you talked about getting in the taxi cab and then
Agreeing to put a blindfold on. Yeah, I was kind of like thinking I was like, I think I would have turned around at that point
I don't know if I would have gone. Yeah, it was inertia. It was it was it was inertia
It was forward moving energy
Um, yeah, that was crazy that uh, I'm actually going back to Columbia next month
And I'm trying to get an interview with some of the people from Lofi Sina that organization
Yeah, really? Yeah. Yeah, and that's in a neighborhood called
Envigado in Medellin and it's a pretty nice neighborhood, but we were in a slum part of it
And I didn't know this at the time, but I looked into it further. I'm like, oh, that's where they took me
And it was that's just standard procedure. Like columbians are good business people. Okay, like they're not
You know these blood thirsty. They have no reason to kill a tourist, right?
Like they brought me to a trap house and they were like, yeah, how much money you got to spend
And I'm like, I could how much drugs you got to sell me. I got plenty of money
So I wasn't and I knew that you weren't planning on selling drugs though when you went down
No, no, no, I was just having a good time. I was just having a good time and I was like, oh, whoa
How much for a kilo blow? Why not?
How much was it for a kilo? Uh, it was for there was two kinds. There was the pedico
Which is the stepped on kind and then there was the pure shit
And I think I paid
2000 like I bought the pedico which was a little stepped on. Oh pedico means a stepped on that's how they refer to it
Yeah, because here in mexicans just call pedico coke. Yeah, exactly. It's just it's uh, it's that's just a
Across the board term for coke, but uh in medellin pedico is uh, it's shit. That's like a little cut
So I was like, give me that and it was 2000 bucks for a key. That's two dollars a gram
1000 grams for 2000 bucks. I bet it was 10 times better than anything you'll find anywhere. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, so I was like, give me that because I had so cold before and I'm like, I don't want shit that's gonna
Like I want shit that's a little
That's not going to keep people up like it's meth. You know what I mean?
Like I want to I want shit that's gonna really like
Like give people like a smooth landing. So I was like, yeah, give me that
You know
Yeah, oh, it's hilarious. Yeah, that's why bro. Yeah
So how how are
The dealers there in columbia different from in mexico?
Great question. Well, they're much more
uh
Customer service oriented. I'll tell you that much
um, they're very columbians are great business people and they're very friendly people and
They really unlike mexicans who by the way, I love mexico and I love mexicans
They don't give a fuck about americans gringos. There's this like
It's almost an animosity
It's almost an animosity because you know
With so many different ways over the last 100 150 years
Since really the history of the state of mexico america has been more or less fucking them
Yes, you know from how we stole their land texas to
You know the free trade agreements that fuck the farmers, right? There's there's some things
There's some things that uh, the u.s. Has done to mexico and and they just are very prideful people they remember
They don't forget so operation. Uh, what was that?
Operation fasten the furious really with right, right? Yeah under obama, right under obama. Yeah, yeah
But that just scratches the surface dude. That's happening
That's killed like that those guns killed like thousands of tens of thousands of people for sure
Same for sure. Well, dude, you know what's so crazy?
We when we were down there filming two weeks ago in sinaloa. Was that when I talked to you on the phone?
Oh, maybe with roger
Yes, that's right. We were in sinaloa. You said you were like in a graveyard or something
We were on our way to a narco graveyard. Oh, yeah, and we were not supposed to be there by the way
They were like, this is how wild
Sinaloa is
Kulia can sinaloa is like how collie columbia was in the 90s in the way that the cartel
Has eyes on everybody, right? Like as soon as we got off the plane
Our escort our guide was like, yeah, they know you're here. They have people working at the airport
They have people working at the rental car company
They have people working at the hotel where we're staying hotel lucerna, right? So every time you leave
Probably what somebody does is they just pick the phone up and they just give
Whoever the, you know, that area manager is a call be like the gringos are on the move
Right. So we were not supposed to go and film at this graveyard because it's supposed to be like
It's it's it's really off limits because it's a narco graveyard
It's where, you know, the big drug cartel kingpins to get killed
Or, you know, whatever bosses or, you know, yeah, they sell they celebrate that that like the dead are like a very
Celebratory thing totally totally culture. Absolutely. But we weren't supposed to go there
Uh, especially not without an like a mexican escort with us, right?
And so we were like, well, we're definitely going to go there still and so we went there
Filmed and as soon as we got back
Uh, our got louise who's been on this podcast louise chabato. You're with louise from by snooze. Yes louise was like
Ya man, they they knew you went to that graveyard
Do you I was like I was like that gave me fucking chills
They're like, yeah, they know you went there. It's it's okay, but they knew you went there
I was like, what the fuck?
Yeah, bro, they got so so they they called the kali cartel
the the
KGB cartel because they they spied on their own people like
Like the soviet kGB would spy on on citizens like under communist russia. That's how it is in kulekkan, right?
So that's it's nuts. I don't know how I got on that subject. Oh, yes. So mexicans
but basically the difference between the columbian dealers is that
Uh, they want to they're actively trying to sell tourists
High quality coke high quality drugs because they like the tourist dollars. They want you to come back
Whereas in mexico
That's not the case. They just because it's so
firmly controlled by
Just a couple of cartels now that they they step you they sell you if you go to port de viarta
You can't find good coke because this it's all it's stepped on because they're like, this is for the tourists
We keep the good shit for ourselves. Oh, yeah, that's the difference. That's the difference
But columbians are like, yeah, come on
We want you to because we that we know if we sell you the best shit
You're gonna come back and you're gonna tell your friends in Australia and they're gonna come, you know
Yeah, aren't the uh
The like the tourist areas like, uh, cancun ports of viarta
Cabo, yeah, those are like all run by cartel or all cartel owned like areas, right?
That's uh, like the hotels and the resorts. They all have an interest in them for sure
They all you know for sure either maybe it's not a direct interest
But it's like how the mob used to have you know, give loans out to casino owners in vegas, right?
That's that's kind of how it is. Yeah. Yeah, I can definitely see that
You know the the way the culture thinks of americans and mexico
Versus the way they think about americans in columbia. It's right. It's got to be so different
That's got to play a huge part in that totally because columbians don't you know, americans are new to columbia
And they're new to places like peru relatively, right? So it's kind of like, you know, we're kind of sexy to them
Or we're kind of cool to them, you know
Mexicans are so familiar with they just know what it is. So we would ask, you know, mexicans about
How do you feel about like fentanyl killing off americans? They were like, well, it's you guys asked for it, right?
I'm like, well
choppo kind of
We did ask for it
But he kind of started the thing that made everybody start asking for it, you know, like there was they invented
the fentanyl market basically back in 2016 so
But anyways, but that's kind of how they see us, you know, I would ask people how what do you think of americans?
Didn't the chinese give them that didn't they introduce them to that?
They
They I don't know if they introduced and that would be a question for louise
But they're the ones who sell them the precursor chemicals for sure, right?
Chemists that taught them how to use right, right, perhaps. Yeah, could have dude
I mean, we can link this all we can go back to china and they haven't forgotten the opium wars exactly from the 1830s and 1850s
So when we go when biden goes over there, that was mainly the british, wasn't it?
Uh, yeah, but you lump it in with uh, yeah, you lump it in with america because you know teddy roosevelt's grandfather
Was an american that's how he got rich was was participating in the opium wars. So
Um, yeah, so they haven't forgotten either
So it's coming back to roost, but you know and mexicans I asked this one guy
He was a bodyguard for el mayo zambada. He was like, oh, is that who you talked to when you were down there?
That was one of the groups we talked to. Yeah, we talked to several different
You know families. How did you get in contact with the bodyguards of el mayo zambada?
Yeah, louise louise put you in touch with louise louise had a guy on the ground. Um
Yeah, I'll shout him out. Uh, his name's ellen fermo and he's uh, he's a trap rapper. He's like a
trap trap trap tenio they call it. It's like you have an instagram. It's uh, yes, of course, uh
He uh, it's like trap music. It's like mexican trap music. It's dope. He's really fucking good. Yeah
So he he would bring us around and he met some of these guys. Yeah. Yeah. It was fucking cool
They didn't let us get a they didn't let us film him on camera though. That's what I know
No, you got to have money
That's how that works down there if you have enough money
You can get these guys to put masks on and carry their guns around and and just do an interview with you
But you don't have the you don't have the coin. It's uh, it's it's pretty difficult because they're like why I don't need to
What for your stupid youtube show? Like I don't need to be on camera. What does this do for me?
Right
Well, so as unless they have a youtube channel was louise, right?
Was louise actually with you or was he just like setting this all up on the phone? No, he was with us. Oh, no
Yeah, bro. Yeah, we were down there filming
Uh, like he was down there documenting how
uh, the sena lo and cartel has has moved in on like the
Legal weed market more or less like weeds about to become legal down there. So they've opened all these dispensaries
I feel like i'm stealing louise's scoop right now
Uh, what they've done is opened up dispensaries all throughout kulia kan, which is the capital of sena lo and so it looks like la
There's there's fucking there's dispensaries everywhere you walk in and it's like different strains
You got pre-rolls. You got edibles. I mean there it looks legal. Of course. It's not and they're all cartel owned all cartel owned
The cartels own the grows
Right, they own so they they're growing a bunch of indoor bud throughout the city and in the mountains
They still get outdoor weed too and like so it's vertically integrated. They control the grows
They control all of the dispensaries and they get independent operators to to do everything
But that's fascinating because they're that's how they've adjusted to
losing
Profits when weed became legal in the states, you know, they lost a big big export market
So this is kind of what they've done to like, you know, make some of their money back. That's fucking wild wild
So when you when you were talking to the bodyguards of el mayo, yeah, first of all
People who don't know who el mayo is he's like the number one. He's the boss of the boss. He's the old man
He's the guy that's never been caught. He's the only person
He's the guy like one of the two guys who started the sena lo a cartel, right? Uh, he actually didn't start it. He was
um
His there's not a lot of history on him because he's so secretive
The guys who started it are all the guys from the original if you go watch narcos, mexico
It was angel felice gallardo. It was rafael caro quintero and the other dude can't remember his fucking name fonceco, maybe
um, but he uh
He was working for them just like choppo didn't start the cartel. He was working for the guadalajara
Cartel that later became the sena loa cartel. So maybe he was one of the founders. Fuck. I don't know
But he's the he's one of the originals
Uh, and the only guy who's never been caught and he's the most wanted, uh drug trafficker on earth
I wonder if he really is wanted or right totally
Or if he's gotten agreement, right?
He's gotten agreement because because you know, that's how a lot of these guys according to louise
That's how a lot of these dudes
Uh survived so long is you know, they cut deals
With either the dea or the cia
right uh or the mexican government or both and
You know choppo gave up information, right all of these guys have given up info on their rivals in the past
um
You know, so who knows what what is keeping him
Out of prison, but i'll tell you what he's got a huge security apparatus. That's for sure. What did it?
What did uh, his security have to say?
well
First of all the guys got
Eight different layers of security around him. He lives in the mountains. He's got owns ranches all over sena loa, right?
but
We went to when we went to visit his we went to visit his number one security team
There's seven different security layers that we passed through on their on our way to meet them
So and that means just guys who are posted up
Wherever he's at and it's like a circumference, right?
It's like that you just keep going out and out now
And these different security layers make a ring around him like a fucking military
These are it's not like a military these guys are a military in huli akhan. They are the law. They are the military
um
So every time you so as you if you're driving along like the highway out of the city, you know people are on radios like yep
uh
These guys are moving towards the boss, right? So
uh, but but
His main guys the guys we talked to they're like
Fucking 25 year old kids. It's crazy
It was it was wild like you think they'd be like, you know have baklava's on and big
You know, you think you think they'd be like these tough like ex marine guys. They're not they're just
They're just dudes that probably have parents or uncles in the cartel and they just got these jobs guarding him
and
You know
It was very weird. It was like these are like normal dudes, you know
Guys got acne if you have braces on right?
smoke and weed watching uh instagram videos
Yeah, that's not what you think it's like, uh
It's uh, it's not what you think at all. It's very easy for that. Well, I mean
I think of how easy it is for them to recruit kids to the cartels. You know when you're a young kid and you're an idiot
You're yeah, you're gonna see all the big flashes shit
You're gonna want to see the money and then you're gonna gravitate towards that
They're probably not a lot of older people because I'm sure the life expectancy inside the cartel is not that high
Yeah, it's either not that high or
You move up to doing something more administrative
Because I'm not sure how many people are actually dying in
In the stronghold anymore if you're a soldier and you're going off to like a different state to fight like the
Nuevo Jalisco cartel, which is like the rival down there. Yes, your life expectancy is pretty low
but I think within the
The city in the area of Sinaloa itself. It was actually pretty safe because the cartels are such a stranglehold. Yeah, okay
Yeah, big time big time. Um, I just think the kids nobody wants to be like sitting around
You know, it's boring when you're guarding this old man in the mountains
It's fucking boring. You just sit around
Probably nothing's gonna happen because there's so many other different security teams
That are gonna let you know if like the marines are on their way
Like it once once the fucking military makes it past the first couple of layers of security
They really were dumb enough to pull a raid that old man. They would have that guy on the move so fast
Um, and plus they won't ever do that because I asked him that I'm like, what if
What if the fucking military does rush right now and they were like, well the same thing will happen
Even worse than when they tried to arrest a video
Chapo's son. Do you remember that back in 2019?
They tried to arrest him and the fucking they burnt that place to the ground, dude
We were staying right by there
Bro, the video of him of them like pulling up on that house and pulling him out of the house is so crazy
Yeah, yeah, he's so fucking calm. Yeah, he's like just exactly. He's like whatever. He's like, it's okay
Let me get on my phone. Let me make a call. That's right. That's what they do
They they they say they're they're panicking the military like whoever the sergeant of the lieutenant
He's handing in the phone and he's like, yeah, call them off. Call them off because they
They're every little clan from the mountains
Descended on to Kulia Khan and just started going to war
It they did like that and the guy who ordered that was mile Zambala
Really? Yep. He was the guy that said do not let them take him
So you imagine what would happen if they tried to arrest mile?
I mean, it would look like
Uh, Afghanistan. Yeah, so that kind of threat of violence
Is is so ingrained in the culture that
You don't really you don't really have to worry about much when you're in the inner circle of the security apparatus
Inside the cartel, you know what I mean? Pardon this brief interruption
But I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now
After it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast
I take dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition diet and longevity because as we get older
These things become more and more important. That is why I started using verso
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase longevity
I take cell being
This one right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide or nmn based supplement paired with naturally derived
micronized
trans resveratrol and tmg these two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide
Idonine
dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as nad and nad is essentially the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity
if you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten that feeling of
Super high energy or mental clarity is because your body is activating these genes called
Surtuins, which are actually longevity genes the downside is as we age nad declines when I found out
I could naturally increase my body's activation of surtuins and naturally activate my body's production of nad
I was sold and it is so much more affordable than doing nad i v drips head on over to
ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15 on your entire order. That's k o n
Cret at checkout and get 15 off your entire order or you can just go to ver.so
slash k o n cret e it's linked below back to the show
It's so fucking crazy to think about i've asked this question to so many people and it's always like a
laugh for people when I ask them this but i'm like
Could you imagine if?
If the us i don't even know if they have motive to do it or not like there's so many conspiracies about how the us is
Like involved in the cartels and like there's that documentary that
I forget the name of it right now, but it's the documentary basically about the dea agent
Yes, who was murdered by the cea cia agent. Yes. Yes. Okay. Felice rodriguez
Uh, um, not felice rodriguez. His his name is yes, uh, come on. Come on. I know the name kikki kamerana
He was the dea agent. That's right. Felix rodriguez was the cia
The cia agent who tortured him the Cuban guy, right? Yes. Yes. So he was a cia asset, right?
We got to remember that the cia doesn't have that many people. I thought he was a legit officer of the cia because he was working on the
The uh, the contra like the contra who knows right because look up felice rodriguez. We gotta figure out. Yeah. Yeah
Who knows because it's very easy. It's all about deniability, right? Like they they this guy obviously wasn't like
You know educated in america and didn't like he didn't apply for a job at the cia
They recruited him because he was in a cuban exile
You know who could help fight communism. Okay, right? This is post castro. This is when yeah, that dude right there
Holy shit. Cuban american former central intelligence paramilitary operations officer. Oh, wow
So maybe he was like on the payroll. Well, he's definitely on the payroll. Maybe he was a
Carcaring member, right? He was involved in the bay of pigs invasion. Oh, so this guy goes back to to kennedy, dude
Yeah, this is crazy as his ties keep going down bush
Uh early life good. It was early life. He came from the wealthy family in uh, native cuba blah, blah, blah, blah
Attended school in pennsylvania dropped out joined the anti-communist league in the caribbean
When did he join?
Okay, wait in september 1960
He joined a group call of cuban exiles in guatemala supported by the cia to receive military training
So that's so that's probably when he got recruited because the cia organized a bunch of cuban exiles to pull the
Bay of pigs invasion off
So that's probably when they recruited him was like 1960
Because because I think bay of pigs was 61
That's par
Okay in 1967 the cia again recruited rodriguez to train and had a team to hunt down che Guevara
Holy was attempting to throw so he was part of the because Guevara got killed in bolivia
So he was part of that. Oh, so this guy is deep in deep
Holy shit. So he was he was the one in the house in guadalajara. Yes when kiki camareno
The de age it was getting tortured to death. Yep that documentary
Can we pull up the name of that everybody who's interested in this subject needs to watch this?
It is the best documentary on this subject. It's
Because and and then if you if you watch narcos you see that they leave that part out
If you watch narcos mexico on netflix, yes, they talk about that whole thing except the fact
that
Those the the guy Jaime who was uh, the white guy jayme. He was leading in the show
He was like the head of the dea office down there. Right. He actually in real life
Uh, according to the documentary, I think he like, uh, stone walled the investigation
Yes, to make sure it couldn't go any further right to you know what I mean
It was oh, dude, my fucking nipples are hard
I got chills down my spine right now. It's crazy kiki camarena. No, no, no, no
You gotta search kiki camarena documentary. Yeah, it's on amazon. It's on amazon. Yeah. Yeah, but it's but it's incredible. Yes, the uh
That is fuck. Yeah. Yeah, he was going on his way to lunch to meet meet have lunch with his wife
And gets kidnapped. Yeah, right out front of the dea office. Yep. Yeah, and that happened during the cold war all the fucking time
So many times it's like
you know, uh supposedly trying to do the
Right thing or we're trying to to fight drugs
It's been the cia stopping
Actually helping the criminals they didn't it's not just with you know, rick ross and the nicaraguans
And cocaine and it was with you know, the the heroin kingpins in southeast asia. Yeah, right?
During the vietnam war they were
Allowing all of this heroin trafficking to go on because the last narc the last narc. Ah, that's it
Is the doc serious about the 1985 death of dea agent kiki camareno? Yeah, dude
Yeah, amazing fucking yeah, but that guy that guy
Felix he never
He's out. I think he lives in miami right now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, which is wild and I wonder why they left that out of narcos
You know, it's a little too deep because I think the powers that be were like this is a little too
wild
I wonder what the pressure was on that to leave that part out because that is like one of the most intriguing parts of the whole story
I think I think it's self censorship because we all know about I think it is. I don't think it's the cia
Coming down to the offices and the netflix in hollywood and it's not that because we all know about the rick ross story now
Right, they've made movies about that. We all know that the cia was
You know assisting nicaraguan drug traffickers who were supplying ricky ross freeway rick, right? We all know that
So we we know that the cia is this shadowy fucked up organization. So I don't think it's I just yeah, I I think it's
Uh, I think it's just a little too much. It's almost unbelievable
So I think maybe the the showrunners were like this is just we want to make a hollywood ending. Hmm, you know and uh
This is not this is not a neat ending. It's why I wonder what I was getting to originally is people like el mayo like
What really are his threats other than rival cartels?
Like I don't think which are barely a threat and and is the mexican government
Is not a threat, right? Like they're bought they're paid bought and paid for by the car
Like the mexican government is essentially a branch of the cartel. Yeah, yeah
From what I gathered and of course like I'm you know a novice at this
but from what from speaking to you know guys like louise and and reading and uh, there's
There's like a tacit agreement
between
You know the cartel kingpins and the mexican government when the mexican government feels pressure
especially from the u.s
They they will tell the kingpins like somebody's got to go. So the most powerful
Yes, they're uh, they're an arm of the cartel, but really the cartel is an arm of the government
That's how I see it because the most powerful
You know gang really is the the high political class
Uh, that's you know been around for generations in Mexico
Right, that's the only reason that the the cartel could exist as it does
So I think it goes government cartel. I'm not the other way around right and that's probably why we got el chopo
That probably just became a uh, uh, totally. He was a pr nightmare. He was a pr nightmare. Yeah, it was it was this bad publicity
And I might be speaking out of pocket. I wish louise was here because this is his scoop, but he's not I am
So this is my clickbait. Sorry louise
I mean we all know this myo gave up chopo
He had to have right
We know he did it was his son
So his son one of myos one of myos many children, but the son that was uh, organizing cocaine
Transport through mexico city. This is back. I can't remember mid 2000s
He basically gets kidnapped by the dea. They come to him and they say we want to have a meet
We want to discuss a deal with you. He meets with them. They fucking
Kidnap them. They arrest him, but that's kidnapping right your american agents on foreign soil
They take him back to chicago to the states and they say look you're never going to see the light of day again
Uh around this time chopo is making a lot of bad publicity
for
Uh, seno loa, right and myo never liked that myo. He was just like a smile. He was like a butcher, right?
Well chopo was mainly like he grew up being a butcher like from very young. He was just a killer
Um, I'm not sure. He brought he I'm sure he dropped a lot of bodies. He was a farmer
He he tended to poppy fields, right?
Um, but you know as these guys get more famous they fall in love with the clout, you know, um, so
Yeah, he uh, he was making a lot of bad publicity for
The seno loa cartel and he was really a glorified manager too. I want to point out like they have him
on
A wiretap talking to the flores brothers who were their main seno loa's main heroin
Distributor through chicago, right and he's discussing a heroin deal. I heard that
Like why would a kingpin ever be talking on the phone about a deal? That's what a manager does
So chopo was really he was a glorified
Uh, general manager, right, you know, right? So so when myo's son gets popped
We've all got all of this going on, right?
Uh
Myo is on
He's on a recorded jail call
his son calls him from jail
And basically myo goes you do what you got to do and that would and and so
That was basically him telling his son you can go ahead and give up info on on choppo
And that's exactly what he did so and that got him out of a life sentence
So they gave myo's son 15 years
But the info that he gave up on choppo led to his final arrest
Okay, so so flash forward to 2019
Choppo's son ovillo el raton they call him
Gets raided by the military in culeacan a block from where we were just staying
And myo out of whatever sense of guilt for having
Been responsible for getting his dad incarcerated in the united states forever says you're not taking his son
Wow, yeah wild
And so they come down and they stop the military from taking his son
So it's it's it's dude
The mexican telenovelas the soap operas it's lived out in real life
And these stories. I mean there's a million of these stories
So many of them. Yeah, so many of them dude. It's choppo's one of choppo's
Uh
Brothers was shot to death in prison
I didn't even know that yeah, he was in a maximum security prison. He was shot to death
I don't know exactly
But uh, it's just like that kind of shit, right? It's uh, they live a very gaucho
machismo
Dramatic lifestyle, it's like played out in real life. Yeah, that's where they get these stories from even though they seem corny
Does like you watch these like, you know
These like be I call them b movies or you know, these kind of like low budget
Shows on netflix, right? But they they're taking these stories from real life. Yeah
Well, you know, the other thing about the cartels is how much fucking money they make by
Trafficking people across the u.s. Border. Yeah, that's big too. That's big eight grand ahead. Yeah, and that's way better business because
You know, like
There's no way those people are getting intercepted like coming from columbia. You know what I'm saying, right?
Like it's it's actually way better. I'd much rather smuggle people. Yeah, wouldn't you? Yeah
And you always need people like there's always like it's a never-ending supply of people
That want to get across and it's just yeah, I don't know
Seems like a better gig. Yeah, I had um
Ed Calderon in here a couple weeks ago and he was basically talking about how the cartels love trump because he put on that whole border thing
Yes, they love that makes the price go up. Yes. That makes the price go up
I'm like, dude the cartels love the republicans
Cartels are fiscal and social republicans. They really are, you know
That's so yeah
Yeah, okay, so check this out and talk about money
Talk about and this is in the episode that drops this thursday connect check it out on youtube. You've heard of youtube
um
The fucking we
Our our guy our uh our trap rapper the guy our liaison. What was his name again?
Uh ellen fermo ellen fermo. Yeah. Yeah, we may have to bleep that out
I'm considering bleeping it out because what i'm about to say. Oh really what i'm about to say
I don't know. I don't know if I can get him in that much trouble. I I think it kind of it's exaggerated a little bit
but anyways
he brought us to a little section like a three or four block section in the uh like the downtown area of kuliakan and
We start we're driving by and he points out all of these little stands. They're like almost like a little outdoor
uh
Yeah, they're just little stands that look they could be fucking lemonade stands, but they're they're money exchange places
So you can exchange right dollars for pesos there
and
What do you think is happening there?
A lot of dollars
A lot of dirty narco good dollars getting exchanged for pesos. He goes. Yeah, they they say they wash about seven million dollars a day
Just in this little four block area seven million a day a day
That's a billion and a half dollars just in this one
Little neighborhood
In this one little city seven million dollars and he's like yeah, they own the
The they own the machines too
So they're laundering money at their own businesses
Right. That's insane. Yeah, so there's a lot of money in drugs still
They are to they are to medellin cocaine is to medellin what all drugs are to
Sinaloa and specifically kuliakan
Like I say that it's it's it's like silicone valley of drug trafficking. They're on the cutting edge
of everything and it's it's so
Engrained in the culture and I think um
Columbia, bolivia and peru are the number one countries that are actually making coke, right for sure. Yeah. Yeah
I had a guy in here two days ago who lives in the amazon rainforest. Oh, I saw that
I saw that yeah, so he was telling me that
There's literal
Factories in the like pop-up shops in the jungle where they're making this shit
Yeah, and he says that like under the amazon under like the canopies of the trees
They will cut out
Like tunnels where planes can fly down and land underneath the forest. Wow
Just to reload. Yeah, they're fucking planes. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. That's insane. Yeah, everybody's getting in on it
It is why everybody's getting in like it's totally changed. Everybody is kind of um an independent
Operator now, you know, the cartels exist
Uh, but you know, I don't know how exactly it works in columbia, but I know for I know in
Uh, with sena loa in mexico
The cartel is now just an armed military paramilitary group that guards
Drugs coming in from whoever
Basically wants to import them
Isn't that wild? So there's no more salary. There's no more payroll. It all got flattened. It all got
After choppo fell the entire organization restructured. So nobody's on payroll anymore. There's no they used to
Have everything used to be structured like a company like a corporation, right? You know the bodyguards the
um, the people, you know
Cooking the meth all the way up to like the people that smuggled across the border. Everybody was just paid a salary
Now that's all completely changed. Everything is independent. So it's just groups
families of different drug traffickers
Smuggling drugs cooking drugs growing drugs. Nobody tells them what to buy who to sell it to
How much to pay for it? How much they can earn?
Where to sell it?
Interesting what they do the only thing they have to do
Is pay protection money to the cartels because they're the ones who have the drug routes the drug routes to to america
And they're also the ones who pay pay off the cops the military
politicians, etc
So it's a way different time and it probably operates much that way in south america, too
I would imagine right because you can't there's just too much technology now. You can't have a pablo eskibar
Style medellin cartel anymore. It's just it's too easy to take something like that down
But you cannot take down the scene of lower cartel. You just can't compartmentalize exactly
Now you said something about
Australia being the biggest market. Oh the best place to sell drugs is
1,000 australia
Dude a gram of coke is like 400 bucks. That's one gram of coke
I bought coke for two dollars a gram of medellin two bucks a gram and a thousand grams a shot
So imagine you get two of those
To australia two keys to australia and just sell it out gram for gram
You got you got a fucking house on uh, sydney harbour. That's what you're doing dude. It's mind blowing. Yeah
And it's obviously because it's so far away
And it's so hard to get to but I mean you're paying all these expenses. So like all like that's all cost
To get there. So how does that equate to more profit?
Uh, you know, I mean like if it cost you that much to get it there like yeah, but it's not that much
It's it's it's you deal in volume, right? That's how you make money in the drug trade you deal in volume and uh
And yeah, you just buy the most for the cheapest
And and you sell it for the highest
That's crazy, dude. Yeah, are there a lot of uh, like in
Where you visited in columbia. Are there a lot of australians and europeans? Yeah, definitely
Definitely, there's a lot of europeans a lot of canadians a lot of australians
A lot of black americans are in columbia now
Which is crazy, right and I was like, why is that and I was like, oh because they like a nice, you know
Black guy's like a nice fat ass. We all know this
And you'll find a nice fat ass in columbia. So uh, but yeah, but but they don't they don't do coke as much as like
Yeah, the people like the tourists that live there. I mean bro. I sold a kilo
Just out in grams and eight balls to
It took me less than a week to get a thousand grams off just to the tourists staying in these hostels
Where I was staying. I mean it was insane
These motherfuckers the majority of them are european, right? Yes
And australian and they're so used to paying so much for coke that they go there and they just lose their fucking mind
They're like, what what 20 bucks for a gram. It sounds like a fucking heaven on earth down there
Yeah, it's not it's not a lot about like the women. They're like the women are like no other
Yeah, the women are really beautiful. Um, very beautiful very outgoing. Love to party. Love to have fun
They're not like women here. Yeah, right. Well, florida's got some pretty great women, dude
Florida got a lot of prostitutes. Oh, yeah, but none of those in columbia
Yeah, no prostitutes were probably on a whole another level in columbia. Yeah, here you got lot lizards
Yeah, so a lot a lot a lot lizards. Um
Yeah columbia's
I don't know. I'm jaded by it. Everybody loves going there. I'm like this place is like
This place is like gross
Now because it's become like cancun of south america. It's become like, you know, you name it. Really? Yeah
Yeah, it's gross. Like you see these fucking you see these like retarded. Can I say that? Yeah, cool. Yeah, we're in fucking florida
Get out your fucking gun. Let's play some russian roulette before we go into the ad read
So, uh, yeah, dude, but you just see this is like braindead fucking junkie because that's what they are
Junkie tourists who are like, you know, just in the tourist sections like the red light districts
Just, you know, like stumbling that down the street like looking for fucking coke and whores
It's just kind of a bad look. You know what I mean? It's just kind of I missed the days when it was just a little more
dangerous
Because people are kind of acted right, you know, yeah, but what's starting to happen is
These people are getting robbed and killed and i'm not justifying it
But i'm saying these people that act out of pocket like that these people that go there
Just like looking for hookers
Just so obviously like you're saying there for yes. Yes. Like I even had a buddy
He he met some girls on uh tinder down there
And you know, he went out and met them at a bar and was drinking with them
And he's like, man, I feel fucked up and they go back to his place and he passes out and they robbed him for all his
Shit, they drugged him that happens all the time. That's like a business. That's a that's a straight up like
Industry now is the drugging and robbing tourists in medellin. They use that thing uh vice news did a piece on it
Years ago
Scapola mean it's called and that's uh the devil's breath and that's like they take it out of a piece of
Flower that grows indigenous down there. It's you take like a like just a little
Like some seeds out of the middle of this flower
And you can just like blow it on somebody or put or make it into powder and put it into somebody's drink
And they'll it will make the person completely black out, but they'll have all of their motor skills
They'll have all full physical mobility
so
People will get drugged with scopolamine and they will be walking around
Uh and some I could say hey take me up to your apartment and give me your tv
And all your money and all your furniture and you you'll just do it
Really?
Yeah, and then you'll wake up the next day you want to have anything in your apartment
You're like what the fuck happened. What is this? I called again scopolamine scopolamine scopolamine. Can we look that up?
Yeah, we gotta look that up. Um, but it uh, I gotta get my hands on this. Yeah, right? Yeah, dude
Sounds rad
Black the fuck out. So it would be like a quailude. It would be like, you know a podcast on some scopolamine
Yeah, like it would be like how quailudes were back in the day. You would have full function full physical function
Uh, but you will you black out?
Yeah, pull up the uh, also known as the devil's breath. Yeah
There you go
Oh
high so con
high
High oscan high oscan or the devil's breath. Yeah, naturally or in synthetically produced
tropane alkaloid and
anti-chloronegic drug that is formally used as a medication for treating motions
Oh, it's for treating motion sickness and postoperative nausea
Huh, yeah
When used by injection effects begin about 20 minutes and last for up to eight hours
Maybe also used orally or with a transdermal patch. Yeah, so my buddy thinks he got
Maybe drugged with this
Huh
And uh, but yeah, it's it's wild like just look up scopolamine
Columbia and you'll see you'll hear all of these, you know horror stories about
You know guys that can't get laid in their own country going there and uh, you know, this is kind of what happens
But you know, I don't want to shit on it. I mean, there's got there's tons of great things about it. But yeah, you know drugs are, uh
They're a corrupting
You know influence on society
Well, they're
It's only because of they're illegal though, right? I mean if drugs were illegal, it wouldn't be nearly as bad as it is
Yeah, I suppose that's true
But it depends how you do it because in America
We we try to make drugs legal in san francisco and portland and seattle and all of these places that are decriminalized
And it's made things like five times as bad. So if you're gonna make really yeah, dude
It's how sucked up in the tenderloin in san francisco, dude. Oh my god. They ruin that city because you let you let people basically
There's no consequences for getting caught with drugs people are openly fucking shooting up and you know
Having fentanyl overdoses and you know all this crazy shit and it fucks up like
You know ordinary people's lives, right? Yeah, but if it was legal, wouldn't that eliminate the fentanyl because it had to be regulated
Like like if you could buy uh an ounce or a gram of coke and no like from a pharmacy and know
Definitely that there's right fucking fentanyl in it. Right. I guess you're right. I guess the government would have to
oversee it and basically make it
right and
The u.s. Just doesn't do that kind of shit. Well, we don't we don't do medical because what that is is like a public health
Revolutionary thing the u.s. Doesn't do that. Well, we make money. That's all we do
So you have to really like it has to be paired with like law enforcement and like mental health treatment
And like housing and all this shit that we just don't fucking do good. Yeah, that's true. So you have to
You know, I just learned, you know, we thought the cartels were going to go out of business when we became legal in the u.s
And look at it. It's just making them stronger. It's just made seeing a law as stronger
So it's it's how you do it right and I don't think we're we're far behind Europe
Uh in the way that they like treat drug addiction, you know, do you think the whole scare about coke
Intentionally being laced with fentanyl is real
I'm glad you brought that up
I'm glad you brought that up. We cover it in this week's episode. Oh really? Yes
Dude, let me be can I just break this? Yeah, nobody's talking about this on the internet
Yeah, I talked about it multiple times in this podcast because it doesn't fucking make sense. Oh, well, fuck me
But nobody's but the but the but this response
The cartels are
almost without a doubt
Not spiking the blow their cocaine
With fentanyl. In fact, they're taking measures now
To prevent people from using cocaine that's laced with fentanyl
All right
Do you remember when I told you earlier that the drug cartels have become completely decentralized?
When they move drugs they move them to the border, right?
with the us and
Usually sell them wholesale to americans or you know, mexican americans latino americans
Who's then smuggle them across the border after that the cartels out of it. They're like there's no more cartel
members that come to the states
basically
That and that sell drugs for
Their bosses back home
They're selling it wholesale right and then retreating into the safety of mexico
So the people that are spiking the coke with fentanyl are stupid dealers in the us that are trying to stretch
The brick trying to stretch the coke, but are they trying to stretch the coke with fentanyl?
Because if you're so if i'm a coke dealer, yeah, I want people to keep buying my coke not dying not using my products
so is it i mean i mean is it
Here's what i've kind of assimilated from the whole thing is there's all there's i've read an article about
I think it would might have been a vice article where a guy went to like every big city across the us and tried the coke
Sounds like a vice article yeah, yeah, yeah and
Basically what he found out was that the cheap
Dealers who like they're who are selling to people on the streets like yeah, like low levels. Yeah drug dealers
They those drug dealers
Are also selling shit like heroin. Yeah, so they're selling coke and heroin
Yeah, the high level drug dealers who are dealing with like rich people or whatever they're not selling heroin right most likely right right
So the people they we know for a fact that they cut heroin with fentanyl
Right because almost the same effect right i'm just more stronger and super well, but but they is not the cartel
Cartel doesn't it's dealers in the u.s. Yes. Yes. So yes low level guys guys buying ounces
They are using fentanyl to stretch coke because
Uh a if there's an overdose
This is crazy, but fiends want it more
Especially with heroin, but also I think with cocaine a little bit if there's if there's an od
Uh, you know whether it results in the death or not
You know the junkies find out about that and they're like oh, he's got the bomb shit
I think that's one of the reasons. Um, I think the other reason is a little bit of fentanyl goes a long way
So and if you've built up a tolerance to it
I think
I don't know. I think it's a different high
I don't exactly know the mindset behind somebody
A dealer that would do that, but we can say for a fact that the uh, that the cartels are not
Spiking their coke their wholesale coke with fentanyl because what we found out when we were down there from louise
Is that the in order to prevent that the cartel is starting?
Pressing the heroin they make
The caram the the sorry the fentanyl that they cook
They've started pressing it into pink pills and and exporting the pills
So that way if a dealer is chopping up fentanyl with coke
That coke is going to be it's going to have a pinkish reddish hue to it
So yeah, you guys stay away from that if you use cocaine and you see that it's got a red hue to it
That means it's got fentanyl in so the cartels are doing us a favor trying to yeah
Yeah, yeah, because so what I assumed is that the low-level dealers were selling coke on one hand and heroin on the other hand
Could be mixing it up on the same table. There's cross-contamination
Yeah, but what you're saying is there it would be a case where having fentanyl in coke would make somebody more addicted
Yes, yes, exactly exactly. Huh? Yeah
Yeah, there's no way after spending time with these guys. I'm like they are way too shrewd. They're way too
On point they would never be intentionally killing off
You know their clientele they would never be and in fact the penalty within the cartel for selling fentanyl in kulea khan
Is death no questions asked
There's a mandate from on high the man himself. He's like there is
Zambada oh from zambada. Okay. Yeah, and whoever leads, you know ovidio leads the chapitos, right?
That's the other wing of the of the sena loa cartel. Yeah, there is to be no selling of fentanyl
In sena loa state that is for export only
So it's like there's they know how dangerous it is right. They know how bad it is. They're like we would never taint
We would never taint a wholesale load of of columbian coke
With fentanyl, right like we keep that shit. These markets are different, you know, yeah
so
And I believe that it makes it makes sense these guys are smart the china thing is really weird
How they have really like sunk their teeth into mexico so much with
Yes, with the the lithium mining. Yeah, and the fentanyl
And all the other things but they've been deep balls deep in mexico for a long fucking time. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely
Yep, and they just keep shipping more and more chemicals precursor chemicals over there
It reminds me of like the russia ukraine thing right now because like ukraine is like a tug of war between the united states
That's right in russia right and it's mexico is like in a tug of war between the united states and china china
Yeah, the u.s. Doesn't really I mean the u.s. Does a little bit of business in mexico, I guess
Yeah, but china is really fucking sinking their teeth in they're playing cold war with mexico
And it makes me wonder if the u.s. Whatever just fucking invade mexico. Yeah, I
But we're just like we don't really need to invade because we're already we already have like so many
On people in mexico like the dea and the cia and all the people
I think mexico is going to become like china in their manufacturing
Capabilities, that's what I think. I think I think mexico is on the come up
I think uh, yeah, there's a lot of natural resources in mexico totally and there's cheap labor and it's
It might not might not be as cheap as china, but who gives a fuck it's going to be better and it's right
It's our southern neighbor. So what china's proven is like we cannot depend on them to manufacture our goods because the next crisis
That that comes up that's just more power that they have they love choking off
You know products to us, right? That's like part of the war that they make
Part of that subtle war that they're always making with the u.s. And they're still locking people down
So it's like you can't depend on them, right to
To be to be your main manufacturer of your import goods. So why not make it mexico? Right, you know
Yeah, I think uh, I think it was apple
I saw an article recently that apple is like diversifying a huge portion of its
Manufacturing of the iphone and then the mac book out of china to
I think Bangladesh maybe right somewhere crazy, but they're already starting to diversify away from china
Yeah, people are getting away from it. They're like it's the cost is not it's not worth it anymore
Like when you factor in all of that bullshit and the fact that they're going to steal your idea
Like if you're an inventor, right and you have a product and you want to go over and manufacture it in china
They're going to take it from you. So it's just not worth it. It's it's cheaper
You might as well just manufacture it here in the u.s. You know, yeah china such a weird thing too
Like I think if you get caught
Apple explores moving some. Oh, they're exploring moving some ipad production to india sources. They when was this published?
There are it's a bunch of companies doing. Oh, this was just just published. Yeah, there's a ton of companies doing it
I had this guy on here multiple times who was a a former mortgage fraudster
And uh, we we one time we had we did like a whole episode about china. He's like a fucking uh
He's a genius. He knows every he's an encyclopedia on china
And uh, it's funny when you look into the laws in china and like how many laws are punishable by death
Fraud any kind of financial fraud is death. That's wild. So you run a Ponzi scheme
They're cutting your head off or mortgage fraud or are you fucking?
Right a bad check you you you white out and change your fucking income on a mortgage application or something. Wow
Can we look up all of the uh death punishable?
Things in china. Yeah, find a list of all of the uh the crimes that are punishable by death in china
It is pretty wild and uh, it
What's so funny is though like
Obviously like the biggest fraudster is the chinese communist party. Yeah, they can just take all your shit like it doesn't matter
You have to there you can't do business in china like kind of how you can't do business in
Sinaloa without the cartels blessing. You can't do business in china without the government being involved
Right, you have to go to them first
You know
Betrayal of the country number one. Can you zoom in on that a little bit? It's kind of small
Arm rebellion and rioting arm rebellion and rioting collaborating with
The enemy and betrayal
I love I love these words they use
Spying or espionage
Does that say flooding
Yes flooding. What the fuck does that mean explosion?
Spreading hazardous keep going down
Spreading hazardous substances hijacking an aircraft
Trafficking in women and children robbery
Rape potential injury
That could be a fight. These are all these are all things that like you would you would not be surprised about
This is all things that gathering crowds to raid a prison with weapons
Defying orders, okay defying orders in wartime is punishable. We'll think about that like it's bad
But we're looking at a list of things that are punishable by death. Yeah, right surrender punishable by death
Unreal that's some old school
soviet shit
Retreaters will be shot
google um like
Fraud and drug crimes
Punishable and by death in china
I think china actually
Executes like way more people than in any other country. Yeah, they have mobile death squads. They'll come to your house and kill you
Right, right. That's very convenient
They got an app for it
It's like uber eats. They're just like yeah uber gallows
Yo, that could be but
That's it's literally covers almost everything that could be anything like
Yeah rioting you could call the people that are protesting against the lockdowns rioters. Yeah 100%
Oh, I would be I'm terrified. I will never go to china not until things change. I'm terrified dude
Yeah, bro, that's fucking scary
surrender
So, yeah, how old were you and at what point did you get busted and actually go to prison?
I was 24 when I got locked up
I was 24 and I had made my million bucks
You know, I'd done my I had set achieved what I'd set out to and uh, I just got popped
I never got caught with any drugs. Actually. I got caught with a bunch of money. I got caught with money. Yeah
It was the people that were shipping my
That was shipping my money back from the east coast
It got picked up by either like a drug sniffing dog
probably in like a sorting facility
And they put a little tracking device in it and it brought them to me
Yeah, that's simple, right? Was it I didn't even know the dogs could sniff money
Oh, dude, it's like one of the main ways that cops go after drug dealers now
Is their money because I could lose all the drugs in the world
I could just go to my my guy my grower and be like, hey, I need you to front me
50 pieces right right and he can always do that pretty much but dude if I lose half a million bucks, that's gone
So these guys would these guys were not the brightest some of these guys were a little
They got a little loose at the end. They would
Send me over packages of 30 40 50 grand and it would just reek would reek of fucking weed smoke
It was like they were smoking blunts as they were counting my money up and like blowing it on the money
I'm like, are you guys are you doing this on purpose? Do you want me to go to prison? Are you the fucking feds?
I would tell them you got a you got to wrap my money with the same care that I wrap
Oh, yeah, I remember you're saying that yeah vacuum seal my cash. Yeah, you have to so but no the drugs are
Think about how drugs are on money all the time
Coke weed
Everything so those dogs must have hit on it and it brought them to me. So
Yeah, yeah
That simple wasn't a wiretap
It wasn't all these fucking cartel members that I was dealing with in columbia or the sena loans that I was
Picking up, you know massive hundred hundred pound orders at a time from in northern california. It was something as
dumb as simple as
Them intercepting a package of money
Yeah, but that's how it goes in the game, dude. How did it go down? Like what was it? What was that day?
Like what do they knock on your door? No, no, no, no, I was I went down
I had different locations where I would get my money packages sent to I would get them either fed x or ups
And right the the next day like next day air. Yeah, and I went to pick up
one of the packages
At a like a p.o. Box where I would receive, you know, it was under a fake name, right?
But I picked the package up and I walked out and I got in my car and I see it's the fucking
I see these two suburban's following me and I'm like, oh shit. This is it. So
I took I was like, well, I'm definitely not going home now, right? I'm not going back to where I live now
So I fucking hit it. I took, you know, I took him on a little high speed chase through the neighborhood
I actually got away
I got away and I talked I talked about this on an episode. I talked to my lawyer
I was going like 90 through school zones, right? I talked to my lawyer
He was like the reason they didn't pursuit follow you
Because they kind of backed off when they saw that I was like
Revving it. I was I had a dodge magnum at the time. That was the hot car in 2010 and that thing, you know
It's got a fucking hemi that thing bolts moves. So that's what the cops drive usually
So I had a better car than the cops and my lawyer was like, yeah, they didn't give chase because
most like local
pigs most most local cops don't
Speed through neighborhoods because if they hit somebody and get killed that person can sue. They're liable
So it's kind of a safety thing. So, you know, if any of you are considering a high speed chase
Do it through a school zone
Yeah, be responsible and do it through a school zone. So, uh, so I was daytime school wasn't out yet
So, yeah, but then I so I made it back safely
So I parked the car in a little tiny little residential area and I
It's dark. It's almost dark now. I make it back to my place
I don't have any bills in my name or anything. I never sold drugs in my place
I don't think anybody knows what my parents didn't even know where I lived. Um
Only one person knew where I lived
Okay
One person that I dealt with
Okay, he was another drug dealer, but I didn't sell drugs to him. Okay. I didn't deal with him at all
He was just an old friend from the neighborhood. Okay
Uh, and he would come over and he would smoke weed every now and then catch up
So
Anyways, I go back to my I get back to my place and I'm like nobody knows where I live
I should be fine. I didn't see anything
I get into my house fucking lock the door get under my covers. You know, I'm fucking shaking. I'm traumatized
I lay lay my head back to fucking take a nap and then I just wake up to just
pounding on the fucking door police police police
So I go down there and I'm like guys relax relax. It's just me. There's no guns in here, right?
I'm a fucking rich guy like I'm not I'm not selling meth like do you know what I mean?
So
They run up in there fucking search the place
Find some keys to some safe deposit boxes find a bunch of cash right there
end of the day
I think they they must have confiscated like
750 800 thousand dollars. Oh my god. Yeah, so that that one hurt, but
I kept thinking how the fuck did they know where I lived
Hmm
My lawyer looked into it later. I gave him the name of this guy the only person I'd ever been to my house
I'm like this guy's
He's a drug dealer. There's no way
I didn't sell drugs to him. There's just no way
He was involved and he goes. I think that guy might be ratting working for the cops
And they're letting him
operate on the streets
Right
right
And I looked into it further. I talked to some guys
Also, who knew this kid from the neighborhood and they were like, yeah, that dude
That dude's been caught before never done a day of jail time. That guy is working for the Portland police
They're letting him sell drugs and just like just like the cartel members
Just like my oh fed choppo to the cops right to the fucking feds Mexican military. This guy
Had quotas. He would have to feed different guys
to
You know the cops so to basically to stay out of prison
So, you know
Did they offer you the same deal?
They wanted to get me to snitch right away. Yeah, they thought I was they were the they saw all this money and they were like
Oh, there's you absolutely you are
Definitely working with the cartels. There's no question. They were like give us give us your suppliers right now
We'll kick you out right now
You will not we won't even put the handcuffs on you
But what would they do if you're like, oh, okay?
My suppliers the fucking in the men of yin cart or in the fucking well the scene alone cartel like what are they gonna do?
They can't do it. Well, well, but remember
I am buying my pot from Cina Loan
Cartel members that are operating in the us. Yeah, that doesn't really happen anymore because weeds basically legal
They they stay in Mexico now
But I was buying from a guy in a little town on the border of northern california
And they had these huge pot grows up in the forest. They would hike on federal land
Hours away from everything and they would run irrigation through it
I mean only mexican guys have that kind of work ethic to be able to like find enough sunlight and enough water
And I mean it's amazing and they would have like, you know thousands and thousands of plants every year
And uh, and so what the cops wanted to do they they could they would they would have been like dude
We'll we'll give you marked money, right? You can use the money. We just found
We could use your money and yeah, we'll wire you up
We'll mark the money and you go start making buys for us, right? Like that's probably how they would have done
I imagine if I had decided to cooperate, you know, but I'm like you guys don't have any fucking drugs
Like I'm fighting this, you know what I mean? I can't say dude if I was facing 30 years in prison for drugs
I can't sit here with a straight face and say I wouldn't cooperate
Like who fucking knows right, you know, yeah, it's one of the biggest like uh wives tales about prison
I feel like yeah, at least that from what I from what I've heard is that like the whole like snitching is the worst thing you could do
How dare you? Yeah
Consider being a snitch when like 99.9% of the people that are most people in federal prison probably have cooperated in some way because
The drug laws are so harsh that
Um, especially back in the day with crack
Yeah, that just because a guy's doing 10 years doesn't mean he didn't snitch
He was just keeping himself from doing 30 or life, you know taking deals cooperating, right?
Um, so yeah, it's uh, it's uh
It is like it's such a cruel thing that the law does, you know
They take your life and they just dangle it in front of your face. Do you like your life?
That is right. I gotta way out. That's I gotta way out. It's evil, bro
And they act like you're there your savior like
We're gonna help you out here. Yeah, you know
So, um, but yeah, it's uh, you knew because they didn't find any drugs just cash. Yeah, you knew that
Yeah, I would never cooperate on the spot anyways like if you're if you're
You know, you never talk to the cops you get your lawyer
And and there's deals that are made behind closed doors, but you would never sign anything
You would never you know, you don't have to talk to them. You could just clam up
You know, like because you're not gonna talk your way out of it. I'll tell you that much
I mean, I tried I was like look I tried to bribe them
Because these were like these are there was only like four guys over at the house
Okay, so I
And these were like guys in track suits that they hadn't made a big commotion. They didn't come in there
These were under covers. Okay. They didn't come in with the SWAT gear
You know, they I didn't even think the neighbors because I lived in a nice area
I didn't think the neighbors knew what was going on at this point
And they didn't kick the door down. I let them in, you know, because I they had the they had the warrant
I was like, dude
Look at all this cash like your boss isn't here yet. Your supervisor's not here. Take this money
I will go get you another 200,000. Just give me a day
Just give me a day and I'll come back
I'll I'll I'll I'll be around. I'll I'll work for you
And I'll give you this money
Just let me get out of here and what I was going to do is go get the rest of my cash if they had if they had gone for it
And I was going to flee. I was going to go to Colombia
Do you think they would have considered did they consider it at all? Nope. What was their reaction? No, he's fucking dorks
They got pissed. He's fucking nerd. I was like, this is such a northwest white boy bullshit
If these were italians from fucking, you know, the south bronx or uh, you know, boston
Yep, some irish cops. They'd be they would have they would have been on their fishing boats already
Yep, they would have been retired
But anyways, you know, the guy the guy one of the guys got pissed. He was like you mother fucker
Like they took it as an insult, you know, I'm like, hey, dude, just offering you dorks
That's stupid. Yeah. So
So what ended up happening? You ended up so they brought me in they couldn't they couldn't get anything out of me
So they arrested me they brought me in they booked me. I was denied bail
Like I didn't have I had bail money. They were like, no, you don't have the judge was like
I I will not set a bail for you because you're clearly a high level
You know, you're you're you seem to be a high flight risk because of the amount of cash we caught with you
Uh, we're yeah, we're skit. We're we think you have international criminal connections
Uh, so yeah, you got to fight your case from jail from county jail and that's the hardest time
That is the hardest every day feels like a week in county jail. Yeah every week feels like a year. It is
brutal
The deprivation where was the jail at? This was in portland in portland. Okay. Yeah, and you think portland's like this nice
You know, you associate it with like, you know, vegan donuts, but man, there's gang banging going on
And in county jail, dude, the first thing you do you walk in you have to fight
First so like one of the first things I did on my first morning walked out. They were like
Hey skinny kid, who you fighting? You got a fade
You got a fade now
Or you're gonna have to we're gonna beat you up and you're gonna have to go to protective custody and hang out with the child molesters
And I'm like, all right. Well, I guess we're gonna fucking fight
So you got into a bunch of fights
Yep, dude, I got into like five or six fights in my my eight months that I was in county fighting my case
And that's what that's what kicked my security level up to like, uh, you know the highest
The highest level it could be and that's why I got sent to a maximum security prison
So how fucked up is that that's like a guy who doesn't even I shouldn't be around
I shouldn't be in a cell with a guy doing 500 years who was a shock caller for the hell's angels
like why am I
As nonviolent kid
You know stepping over bodies in a maximum security prison
It's because I had to fight when I was in jail. So they make it they make it so you can't prevent it, you know
That's fucking terrible. Yep. Yep. So what was it like finally getting transferred out of the
County jail to the super it was a super max. No, no, no, no, it was just a max. It was just a max security
Two rivers correctional facility
There's a medium and a maximum
It's like two different facilities on the same, right, you know piece of land
But uh, you know, you're begging to go to prison after being in county for that long
You're just like, oh my god, like let me get to like a home. Let me get this
Wrapped up, you know, like whatever my fate's gonna be. Let's go
So, you know, they put you on
First of all, they send you to like a whole assorting facility assorting prison
You didn't go to the prison until you got sentenced, right? That's right. You get sentenced. So we came we agreed
Uh, we took a plea deal finally
So the longer you wait the longer you fight your case if you've got a good case
Right, meaning it's not a slam dunk for the prosecution
The more willing they're going to be to make a a good deal with you
So my lawyer would tell me just hang on buddy
Because the longer you can wait
The more they like the prosecutor wants to get your case off the books
Right, right because they it's all about statistics
They want as much incarceration time as possible because it justifies
You know budgets every year and all this stuff and just keeping the apparatus going in their job
And i'm sure you didn't have a public defender. No, I had a good lawyer. Yeah, I had a very good lawyer
I I he was an obese fat. We called him the fat man
We called him the fat man gorsky. That's his real name shout out gorsky one of the best defense lawyers in the portland metropolitan area
And I hired him because i'm like a guy with this much money to eat has got to be winning some cases
So he uh, he was like the longer you stay in here the more they're willing to to play ball
So signed a plea deal for 36 months money laundering conspiracy
Um, yeah, and then they ship you out of jail that night
They wake you up and they say roll up
And you roll, you know, you put all your belongings in a sack and they they put you on a bus
They put you on the chain and then they sent us to
Uh, a prison like a holding facility where you wait
Right until they find a bed space for you in whatever prison you're going to go to right, right? So
I was there and that's like being in like solitary confinement. They keep you locked up
Basically 24 hours a day in a little cell. So that was torturous too
Um, and yeah, then the day they say hey, you're you're going off to two rivers
And I was like fuck it's the last place I wanted to go to because that's a rough prison
And it's eight hours from portland in the middle of nowhere, right eastern, oregon
And uh, and so they put us on a chain, right? We call it the gray goose. You're locked up
You got you your your ankles and your wrists are bound
And you know, you're on the you're on the bus for eight hours
They take you off, right? You step off the bus. You're chained up side by side
And
You know, you're like, wow, this is this is your new home. You're completely it's an out-of-body experience
If you've never been through the the prison system before and nobody tells you what's going on either
So you're like, I'm just being brought through this gigantic bureaucracy
And I don't even know I don't even know why half of the things are as they are
And
So we're we're lined up they get us off the bus off the gray goose in front of two rivers
We're lined up chained up together and this big
Samoan dude, he's maybe like three or four men down for me on the chain
He fucking as soon as they uncuff him he turns and he fucking punches this guy next to him
He drops him like like hard as fuck just drops him that dude ended up dying
He killed that dude that was all and the guy who punched him the punch
Yes, and that guy was a Samoan guy and he was a lifer and so he was trying to prove his stripes right away
Yeah, and I was like, oh my over some
Marijuana over some fucking weed and now 11 years later my fucking, you know, my mom
Smokes it takes gummies to go to bed
Yeah
Yeah, yeah
So that's uh, you know and and there's been far worse stories of guys, you know
Get locked up behind weed and drugs specifically
Yeah, how many of the guys that you met that were in that prison were in there for something similar to you
There's like nonviolent drug. Um, I was pretty unique
I was pretty unique in that way because in that prison that was mostly, you know violent criminals and a lot of sex offenders and a lot of
Yeah, a lot of people doing life
Um, most guys at my level of the drug game would have gone to federal prison or there would have been in a lower
security prison
So I was pretty unique. Oh, so you were in a state prison. I was in a state prison. Yeah
I didn't catch it. I didn't I didn't catch a fed charge. Yeah. I didn't catch a fed charge
The feds confiscated my money. So at the day I got arrested
They sent the dea and homeland security down to investigate me and they originally
Did charge me with a federal crime, but when they couldn't link
When they didn't have any links to drug sources, they were like, this is
I guess they thought it wasn't worth their time
So they just seized the money and then gave the case back to the state
Yeah, it would have been way better to be in a federal prison, right?
Not a maximum security federal prison. Those are far. That's a myth. The lower security
Yeah, the and I have a lot of these guys on my podcast and you hear their stories and it's like it makes my time look pretty tame
Yeah, considering
Yes, the low level federal securities like the camps that's cake, right? That's where like, you know, they send the wolf of wall street
He's playing he's playing tennis and shit
Exactly
So I don't know it depends where I would have got sent to but no those max federal prisons are are as tough
Usually a lot more violent than an average state prison
Really because people are doing so much time and there's people from everywhere. There's gang bangers
And drug dealers from chicago and new york and la and and yeah, it's it's wild go listen to my podcast
I got some stories coming up from these guys and you're just like this is some third world
Shit, you would hear you would hear stories about this, you know, like my my friend who was on my show
Big herk, he's got a great familiar with him. Yeah, you know, yeah, he's got a he's got a great youtube channel
he would be like, yeah
Yeah, people would get stabbed and if the guy didn't die like the guy who was doing the stabbing if
The guy he stabbed didn't die
They would just send the dude the perpetrator to the hole for 30 days
And then they bring him back out because they didn't want to deal with it because there was so much of that going on
Yeah, yeah, so my they would send the guy who got stabbed to the hole. That's so crazy
My friend matt who was in prison for mortgage fraud for like 12 years. Oh, thank god. I was in china, dude
He yeah, exactly. He went to do big herk's podcast and when he was doing his podcast
He explained to him that he basically found everyone he could to snitch on to lower his sentence
he reduced he got like 10 years off his sentence by
snitching on people
He even found people in prison like old like the one old guy who ran a Ponzi scheme
Kept walking the yard with him every day and getting him to tell him stuff
He just gave it the guy ended up only getting like an extra year and a half on a sentence
But matt got like five years off his sentence for basically snitching on this guy
So he was telling big herk about like casually. He's like absolutely
I thought anybody started like I possibly could and I guess big herk almost ended the podcast right for sure
He wanted to like he was like started sweating and he was about to like stop like stop recording and like kick him out of the hotel room
They were wow. Yeah, I would have that's despicable matt said it was the most uncomfortable conversation he's ever had
Yeah, I fucking I believe it dude. That kind of shit is despicable
Like like there's there's one thing it's it's one thing to like give up info and this is what a guy was explaining to me too like
There's a difference between snitching and ratting
snitching when you're in jail means like
you're cooperating with
Authorities about something outside of the prison, right?
Whether it's your case or whatever and then you might just get beat down for that, you know
You might just get beat down or exiled or whatever. That's kind of like nobody's business, you know, right?
But fucking ratting
Rating like that in prison where everybody's supposed to be like we're like in this together. Yeah, that's despicable
But he's a guy who committed mortgage fraud like you can't expect that guy to be, you know, no
That's a gigantic lie at least he doesn't lie about it. Right. At least he's a lie about the snitching, right?
You know what?
I'm fine with that. I guess that's that's we can we can give him that you got to get this guy on your podcast
Oh, I will you and him I will not end the conversation. I would him would be like I could
I could live in LA. No, he lives here. Oh, we'll get him out. He lives like an hour from here
You and him in a room together. I could listen to that for fucking hours. You guys would you guys would be great
Yeah, it was um, yeah, you know
People do a lot of things to save their skin
But man that guy's lucky. He didn't get a fucking bone crusher
You know, he didn't get he's actually get stabbed up. He is
five foot
Five foot five with a good pair of shoes on wow. He's a tiny little twink
tiny little guy
And that's what he said. That's what pretty much what more get motivated his entire life his whole like
Yeah, his stature
He had a thing for like hot single moms and buying him fake tits, right?
Right. Like every single thing he said he had met openly. He was I kid honestly if I really think about it
Every single motivation in my life that has driven me has all gone back to my height the short man syndrome
Who's on who is that honest about that? Wow, that's pretty crazy. That's incredible. He's he's gone as far
I mean, he's got he spent like like 10 grain on his hairline to get his hair
Better hairline than me. He's looked into having uh, his shins elongated
God, dude
Wow, dude like just driven. What about some therapy? What about what about just being okay with yourself?
You know, he wouldn't be as successful as he is now. What's he do now? Now?
He's a podcast. He's a true crime podcast and he writes books. Wow. He writes books like he's successful
Oh, he's so success. He's one of the most like the first podcast I did with him on here
Was when he was still in the halfway house. He had never done an interview anywhere
He just emailed me because he saw all my show like this
Yeah, some of the little documentaries I was doing on real estate and he emailed me and he's like, hey
Uh, I went to jail for mortgage fraud. Could you help me make a tv show?
and I'm like, I don't know about that but you come to my podcast and
We'll see if anyone likes it. Yeah, and that was like the jump-off for this podcast. Oh, no shit
So that I did that and within a week it had a million views. Wow
So I'll definitely I might be able to get a tv show made for him. I'm out in LA, you know, you never know
He's already now. He's got now that he's like now he's made all the success
Now he's got like production companies and networks knocking his door down. That's that's the way to do it. Oh, wow
Yeah
Matthew Cox. Oh, yeah. Yeah, people have reached out to me telling me to get this guy on the show
Oh, man. He's great. I've done like 10 podcasts with him ever since but he's like taking that
Like ever since we did that first podcast
I've never seen anybody take an opportunity and go so far. Yeah. He's the spokesperson
He's like the ronald mcdonald of home title lock
Oh, really?
So like he is on all these internet like these nationwide tv commercials
Wow, like doing all this stuff people fly him to do like talk at conferences
Right, so he's basically become like the jordan belford speaking of the wolf of wall street
He's he talks about how you get away with it. He probably talks to law enforcement. Yes. Yeah. Yeah guys go full
That's hilarious guys go full rat dude guys go full rat
He looks like a rat doesn't he he looks like a fucking rat
Oh my fucking god. It looks like you couldn't trust him as far as you could. No, no, dude
With that with that grin no with that fucking teeth. They're just
Just shining all out of his mouth home title lock has a fucking dedicated
Web page a web page on the website for him
Cox falsified documents to make it appear that he owned properties and then fraudulently obtained several mortgages on them
For five to six times their actual
He acquired millions of dollars this way
As opposed to between five and 25 million. Wow, that's
Interesting. Wow. He began his he began his life as a dedicated criminal in central florida after that offense
So he was forging documents. Yes lots of dog. He was he would go and rent a house
And somehow get his hands on like the deeds and the mortgage paperwork
And he would photoshop it
Unbelievable and then go to the bank and say, you know, I forget exactly the fucking mechanics of it
But he would somehow get a hold of that those documents photoshopped them and get a fucking loan on the house
He was renting and put like a family
Like a family with kids
Like this this one family had like a a special needs child and he basically put them like stole their house from them
By like forging the documents it's it's kind of genius though
Like I could just never I don't know the first thing about any of that it takes a certain kind of mind
I met a guy getting ready to go do fed time
That he had like a huge counterfeit money ring and the guy it was it wasn't like a yeah
And it wasn't no like amateur shit either like he was printing millions of dollars and uh
You know the way he was describing like how he got his hands on a money printing machine
You know like from like some again chinese guy. It was just like fascinating. So you get a lot of these guys
In federal prison that are like geniuses like yes like masterminds. Um, this guy probably didn't go to
A prison where there was a whole lot of stabbings. Yeah, maybe he was in a medium. He was in a medium. Okay, so if you go to a medium
Shit kicks off every now and then but like if you kind of keep to yourself, right?
I don't know if people found out he was ratting though in did anybody know he was ratting in jail. I think
I think a couple people actually did find out
But he found a way to get leverage on that person like right a way to go to them like hey, bro
I heard that
This has been going around. I don't think you want everybody to know about this. Do you right right?
He would use his dagger tongue. Oh my god. I'm scared to have this guy on my podcast
Is he gonna dig shit up on a very nice guy? He's a very wow
So did he didn't he doesn't talk about like the lord
Did he found like he looks like he looks like a cult leader?
Absolutely looks like he gives it up to jesus before every uh ad reedy does no not at all. Oh, thank god
Michael franchisee does that
franchisee he's like i give it up to jesus christ and he's like the big he was like the x mobster that was making like
Crazy money and i'm like, oh do we have to give it up to jesus? That was so 90s
Anyways, his podcast with big herk is a fucking nail biter. Oh, wow. That's so
Funny, dude. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, big herk was uh, he was a lot of fun to have on the show though
Was he yeah, but he would talk. I mean, but these federal prison stories, dude
Yeah, talking about as soon as you get there as soon as you get there you go get a shank
You get strapped up and the guy who was making him was like
The guy that worked in the kitchen, you know, and he he could get you he saw fights with literal knives
Not shanks butcher knives. He saw like
riots kicking off where people were stabbing each other with knives
So it's like clearly and you know the guards are all in on it
Yeah, all kinds of shit definitely go listen to my story with herk, but yeah, I mean some of that happened in state prisons
How did you get uh?
Seld up with the guy who was like the leader of the hell's angel. So I asked him about that and he was like
Probably it's because you're the opposite of me
Oh, you asked him the I was like, why the fuck are we sealed up together?
And he I was like, I don't I comes like I don't gang bang obviously and he was like probably because
You're the opposite of me, right? They don't want to put in two gang bangers in a cell together
Right because that's just too much time for them to conspire. So and I'm like, okay, that kind of makes sense
Um, but he jimmy protected me my my cellmate jimmy was he in there for life. He was in there for life
He ended up killing a guy
And he's he was he was on death row
And I think he beat his case because it was a self-defense thing
But if you kill somebody and you're doing life and you kill somebody in prison, they usually send you to death row
so, um
But he you know, he's the one that basically told the other gangs, you know, the white gangs
Because I refuse to click up, you know, I was like, I'm not I'm not
I'm not a follower. You know what I mean? Like I'm
I'm me. I'm not going to join your gang
What and then I got I got to go put in work for you and kill somebody and then I end up doing life
Right. So my my logic was like
Give me a strap. Give me a burner. Give me a shank
And if you feel froggish and you want to come at me, I would rather defend myself
You know and stab one of you guys in self-defense right and at least maybe be able to beat the case
Then me have to go put in work for you and then I never get out of here. That's crazy. So I refuse to do that
So but before they could put like a green light on me. Jimmy like intervened. He was like, this is a good kid
Yeah, he was he was doing I owe him my life and he uh, yeah, you know to this day. I mean it's like, um
It's uh, I think about him all the time
Is he still in is he still alive?
He is he's kind of lost his mind because he's been on death row for so long
For the last decade because he he got sent to death row right after I got classed down to minimum
and uh
Yeah, and why did they send him then?
Because that's when he killed that he killed a guy in yeah, but it took
Fucking almost a decade to like adjudicate that
And so, you know, because he he he doesn't have any money. He's paying like a public defender, you know
So they just keep you in
isolation
For a decade away from everybody. So that and you know, he was already in his 50s when that happened
So now he would be in his mid 60s. So, you know, he's he's deteriorating
And his mind is probably mush. It's very sad. Do they have a death row in california or organ?
They do they don't the the governor put like a stay of execution on anybody on everybody that's on death row
Yeah, so it's it's still on the books. They have executed people before but
Uh, they don't really do it anymore california is kind of the same way like as long as nuisance in power
Nobody will ever be executed again, but they keep people on death row
So they keep you in death row conditions. Yeah, even though you'll never be executed
Which is like torture people people that have been have been on death row for decades
Appeal the courts all the time to like let them be killed. Think about that
How fuck does that and the courts are like, no
And also people on death row
Get exonerated all the fucking that's true too. That's true too. Right, right
So we have at least two or three death rows in florida
I went to the one in stark florida at one time
Where i'm from friends. I have a lawyer friend who represents
Uh, some people who end up on death row. He rep he actually he represents a lot of cartel members
Really like he gets flown. He gets flown like private to fucking columbia. Oh, wow
He'll literally he explained it to me. He goes he goes. Yeah, he goes. I get on the plane
I get off I get escorted to a hotel and I'm I wait in the lobby until they call me up
Yeah, and he wow, he he fucking oh, so he's getting paid a nice a nice fee for that
Yeah, bro
Wow
Crazy and the way he explains it like how like some of those top level
Cartel members are able to just basically live their lives with their high paid lawyers
Yeah, and the like the ponds are the ones that get in trouble at the low level totally
That's a whole another crazy story. Yeah, but anyways, oh, so so he was representing a guy who was on death row
And he I guess he believed this guy was innocent
Yeah, but apparently this guy had like raped. He was a truck driver who like raped and murdered a bunch of girls
and
um
So we were there across the street from the prison
from like starting from like 9 p.m
To like 1 a.m. And there was across the street
It's so weird dude. It was so eerie because it was like dark and foggy and cold
And there was one big group sectioned off
Of people who were protesting the death of him right because everybody knew he was supposed to be executed at that prison
Right and whenever the prison executes somebody there's a bell that rings I guess on the prison grounds
so
There was a whole group of people protesting the execution and then
50 yards away
There's a whole another group of people who were the victims of people who have been raped and
Who have family members or daughters that have been raped killed
And people who knew some of the actual victims that were there. Yeah, they were there to like
Get there sort of you know, the justice started on the guy
And we were going back and forth like interviewing people on both sides like wow their perspective
Yeah, and it was fucking crazy because like the people that were there who had
Family members who were victims or who knew the victims
You could you could understand why they were there and you could justify their pain and and why they wanted to be there to
see the guy die
But the people on the other side the only reason they were there is because they knew people
Who were innocent who got exonerated on death row, right? So they're like we can't fucking prove this
There's no deep there's not enough DNA evidence like trial. It wasn't done. Right. Yeah, there was yeah
It was botched with the prosecutor, right?
So like they both had a very good point, right, right because I guess in this specific case
I forget the guy's name now, but there was not enough evidence to to execute this guy
And no matter what you believe about fucking the death penalty
I think the one thing that absolutely is true
Is you cannot fucking kill people when you don't have all the solid DNA evidence, of course, dude
That's look at that and he was and they denied an appeal to the claim that gary bowels was too intellectually disabled to be put to death
This isn't the actual guy. Oh, this isn't the same guy. This is it must be different. So this is the guy
But the guy you're talking about
They ended up putting him to death
I believe so that night they didn't they stayed it the last day of executions the governor
They had yep, they had the guy fucking strapped to the lethal injection thing, right?
The people were in the room when the fucking movie theater with the curtains open
Watching and at the last minute they just closed the curtain to state it and they wow
They gave him like another couple weeks or maybe
What is the guy's fucking name? His name was
Oh, it's gonna kill me
Google google the lawyer Bjorn Bjorn Brunvand represents serial killer
Uh, or not killer put to death in stark, florida
Uh, Bjorn bj or nbr un vand
It's a free plug. Yeah, bro. But it was it was wow eerie
And then like like 30 minutes before you supposed to be executed all the new stations pulled off and there was fucking news everywhere
And it was just such a surreal fucking scene. They'll put you to death in florida, man
Yeah, they will florida in texas. You do not want to fuck around utah, too
They will fucking kill you, man. Yeah, it's uh, it's it's if you think about the
You know, if people on the right politically
Would look at a country like china who clearly
Their values are not aligned with I would say most americans values are not aligned with those of an authoritarian
communist dictatorship
That's what they do how they execute people. That's you're you're you're doing you're practicing the same thing
Like you're practicing you claim you don't want communism or big government
But you are practicing the most big government thing when you let the state the government
Take somebody's life
Um, you know, like that's kind of how I look at it. It's like I don't want to
I don't want to be like china. I don't want to be like saudi arabia
I don't want to be like these awful
Savage places. So we constantly need to like be like
It's not enough to be like well
China executes
Thousands of people a year we can execute one or two uh innocent black guys in texas a year
I'm like, what kind of standard is that you're holding yourself to comparing yourself to china. You know what I mean, right?
Um, yeah, it's uh, yeah, it gives me the chills
It's got to be so different being on fucking death row than any other prison
Because you're all you're dealing with people who are like looking at the finish line. They know they're dead men
Yeah, sometimes sometimes again, it's it's a state-to-state, you know
um
Is this it oscar rey boland that that's him
convicted of murder and the slayings of uh three women in florida
So is he actually killed?
When was this published?
January 6 2016 go to the bottom. There's probably an update
All right there
Man who has convicted ten times of three separate slaying scheduled to die
for one of them unless the okay, so this was like before
I think I still alive. Well, it doesn't say anything if you just google oscar rey boland what comes up the appeals court denied the motion
Oh, so he hasn't even appealed to the supreme court yet. Okay
Yeah, that was all happening that night. That's fascinating humans. It's I would like to talk to family members of victims whose
You know killers or alleged killers were executed. Like did they feel better? I think they do
I think they do actually. Yeah. I was talking to a couple of them
I mean it was sad dude talking to like there was a guy there who was who had his fucking
His like young daughter was raped and murdered. He was sitting. He goes to every execution
I was like, what are you doing here? He's like every time somebody dies for everyone gets executed for
Murder and rape. He's like i'm here to support the fucking families and the victims and whatever and it's like
There he is right there. He's dead
January 7 2016. Oh wow
Damn, he's from portland. He was probably guilty. I don't want a guy
If we're just going to stereotyping
I'm saying he's guilty probably fucking guilty the murders went unsolved for nearly four years
He was in prison basically his whole life. He got a locked up in his 20s in 87 other shit. Gotcha
He got locked up in 87, bro. And he was just killed in 24 years ago right or five
How many that's how long it takes that's how long it fucking takes to get executed if you appeal it
That's wild. That's why it's taken my boy jimmy
So long to finally to to you know get his day in court
So
It's wild
Yeah, damn. He's from portland indiana. Well, I don't like the fact that he's from portland. That's where i'm from
Not indiana indiana is the sketchiest state in the union, dude. I've always said indiana is one of the worst places
Because it's in the north, but it's incredibly went to prison in indiana. Yeah. Oh, wow. I didn't know that for shooting the guy
He was trying to rob him. No, uh
What was his late late? No, he actually didn't go to prison for that. He got off. Oh, he beat that
I thought he got I thought he got the gun charge for that self defense, but no
He was in prison for I think it was like gun charges and like pushing a bitch out of a car
Out of like his out of like a moving car. You can't push a bitch out of a moving car in indiana
I mean, no, he didn't he didn't he did it in Atlanta, but they sent him to prison. He did his time in indiana. Oh, damn
Damn. Yeah. No, that's a f*** state. I love how
So listening to your podcast reminded me so much of some of the rap music I listened to because you're talking about chickens
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we get that. That's west coast slang. We call a chicken a kilo a chicken is a kilo
Yeah, yeah, so when I was listening to I was like having flashbacks like some of the gucci
Gucci man music I used to listen to back in the day. Oh really because he's talking about like yeah whipping up chickens
Yeah, that comes from the west coast that comes from e40 and uh, because there's a lot of southern
West coast underground like crossover. So yeah, cooking a chicken is is from the bay area
But why slang is from the bay area?
A lot of those guys talk about how they would have
Girl like women cooking up the crack or like cooking the coke, but he'd make sure they're all naked. Yeah. Yeah, that's a big myth
Oh, it's a I think it's a huge there's no reason
I don't think there's any there's no reason I guess because they can't steal your s***. But why would you want to trust a woman?
Anybody doesn't have to be gender specific. But why why would you want to trust a naked chick?
to
Cook up a kilo of coke something that valuable into crack
You wouldn't know now you'd have a chemist. You'd have a special. I knew guys from the hood. That's what they did
Like Mexican guys they they specifically they wouldn't sell drugs. They wouldn't buy them. They would be paid on
Consignment or they would be paid a fee to mix the drugs to to whip up a
Uh, you know to to stretch a kilo of coke, right? They would know how to do that. They would know how to cook up crack
You know, you give it to a specialist. You wouldn't give it to a naked chick. Yeah, it's crazy
Damn it. I know just bust your fantasy music video so much better. Yeah for sure for sure
I don't know who started that. I think that was like new jack city the movie back in the 80s. Oh, yeah, you know
Yeah, yeah, but um
Yeah, I don't think I don't think much of that happens. Um, I think it's all
It's all it's much less glamorous, you know, but there are like, you know
It's crazy. There's people in the Bronx right now
Dominican Puerto Rican women that are in like, uh, you know a room like this and they're all sitting at a big table
And they're just cutting up heroin. Yeah milling it and cheffing it and they're they're getting paid
And that it just becomes and they're just getting paid like a salary
They're just getting paid like 60 bucks an hour just like people are trimming up buds somewhere
It's like an assembly line and it totally it just becomes normalized
Like these guys these kids these uh, sacarios that we're guarding El Mayo. Yeah, you know
They're just sitting around like bullshitting like any any group of friends would do. Yeah, they don't consider it
What they're doing is criminal
They really don't
And it gets like that you get so normal, especially in a culture like that
Um, it's where you're like, this is the family business
Ed Kalin around was telling me a lot of those kids those sacario, uh, like bodyguards those young kids a lot of them are like
TikTok stars
Oh, yeah, they do have a huge tiktoks. They'll show they'll like flash all the fucking drugs in their guns
Now, how can you do that on tiktok?
But I say cunt once and I get flagged that's what I'm saying, you know, we're doing a bit like a comedy bit
How can you do that that it doesn't make any fucking is that because it's in Mexico and like the laws are different like the tiktok laws are
Are they different? I can't imagine that
Well, they're definitely different it's different in china obviously they because they're the ones that own tiktok and they're
Pushing that on us. Yeah, but I don't know if it's they have like rules for their kids that use tiktok
There's like an off time. Yeah, there's there's a time there's there's a limit to the amount
You can use and like what they show you in in in the feed is like smart
Educational yeah, so I don't know. I can't imagine Mexico if they're allowing people to wave guns
I don't know dude. That's fucking crazy and a lot of prisoners of tiktok accounts now in prison
Yeah, some of the biggest tiktok accounts are prisoners. What talk about that. How do you smuggle a gigantic iphone? You don't
You can nobody's shoving that I don't care how gay you are. You're not fitting that in your ass
You're not key stirring an iphone 14. You're getting that brought in from a guard. Let's talk about that
How do all these inmates have the latest technology?
You know how much you know, this is the going rate for this smug getting smuggled in this 1500 bucks
1500 bucks. Yeah, that's what that's about what you got to pay a guard. It's like a going rate
It's like a market price. How does the guard get paid?
By somebody on the outside. That's how drugs get sold. Let's talk about that
How do drugs get sold in prison the same way cell phones get smuggled and purchased in prison somebody on the outside
your one of your people will bring money to
A guard right on his day off or or if you're selling me drugs in prison and you're also a prisoner
My my person on the outside will bring your person's money or they'll put it on your books, right?
Right, they'll put money and when they see your commissary exactly exactly and when they see that boom
Now we're now we're straight now. We're even steven
That's one of the ways it happens. Yeah, if I was if I was in prison, I would take up smoking cigarettes. I think yeah
Yeah, there's that but they made stupidly, right? They made cigarettes illegal. So what do you think that did dumb?
But it made a huge market. Yeah made a huge fucking market for it. Yeah, you know, of course it did
Of course it did, right? That's the most obvious thing I want to do if I go to prison
I'm gonna start smoking cigarettes. Yeah. Yeah, the first thing. Yeah. Yeah
I'll be outside working out and smoking cigarettes at the same time. Yeah, exactly like old old like men like real men
Yeah, we're gonna fucking get jacked, but we're also gonna be damaging our lungs. Oh my god. Yeah, so
Fuck they have ticked they're big on tiktok. I always made I always kind of like joked that if I owned a prison
I would have podcast studios in there
Because true crime is such a like blossoming genre and podcasting
The biggest podcast in the world are true crime. Yeah. Yeah, and the inmates are hilarious
Oh, and there's no shortage of content. You live in a content machine. It's one of the funniest places
That's why like I'm trying to get this show made this I wrote a script like a pilot based around just guys in prison
Because it's so funny. There's so much funny shit that happens. That's where I started doing comedy
Was at these talent show nights in a maximum security prison. Really? Yeah, I didn't know they had talent shows
Yeah, if you're a well behaved every now and then like a monthly they had these like just talent nights
And you would go down and dude
I've had some rough shows on the outside, but it's nothing
Compared to bombing in prison
Like you had to get if your talent if you didn't hook the crowd in like the first 10 seconds
They'd start booing they would throw oranges fights would break out like that's that's what taught me to like get to the punch line quickly
So if you watch my comedy like I'm I'm at the joke immediately
Like there's no like there's not a lot of big setup and that comes from
Prison that comes from doing comedy in prison. Yeah. Yeah. So when you got when you first got out of prison
Actually, let's come I got a pee
Okay, let's come back and go like start when you got out of prison. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, cool. Yeah
Yeah, his so his uncle was frank lucas
Um, yeah, let's fucking get going keep this in the pot. I don't give a shit
If David gets mad he can we didn't take a pee break. So we're just now we're talking about um, David Lucas. Yeah, David Lucas
one of like the best
up-and-coming
Comedians in the country. He's so good. He's he's killing it right now. I love when he's an ingenious roaster
I love when he fucking roast people in the crowd. Yeah. Yeah. It is so good, bro. Yeah, nobody better. It's schoolyard like bullying
It's hilarious. It's all off the top of the dome
You know what I mean? Like he's the real deal. He's the real deal. That's a that's a talent
I feel like I don't know shit about comedy, but I feel like having comedy like perfecting a
Uh, a bit is completely in a separate world from like dealing with the crowd
Totally totally and it's yeah, it's art versus being naturally funny. Yeah, we call it like back of the bus funny
Yeah, and I'm not just saying X. He's black like
It's that's he reminds me a lot of the guys in prison like how just naturally
Funny they were we'd be at the table playing dominoes or whatever and people would just be snapping on motherfuckers
You know and it was like hot potato
You didn't want to if the hot potato came to you you wanted to get it off of you as fast as you could
Right, so you would just I would as it was coming around the circle to me like people just getting roasted
I would be like I would be like rapidly fucking coming up with insults for somebody else
Just to push it off of me. You know what I mean? So that was like training that was that was training and then
And then during the talent show nights. That's when I would write
Jokes and I didn't even really know they were jokes at the time. It was just like I would
Observe things in the prison that were funny. Yeah, and I didn't realize these were comedy bits
I would just write them down and I would get up there and I would be like
Have you guys fucking noticed this right? It's one of so one of my first bits was about how
Like when a riot is about to break out in prison
You can tell because everybody will bring their boots
They're like work boots to the showers
Because if a riot kicks off on the yard
That means everybody in the prison has to start fighting. It doesn't matter. You don't have to be on the yard
People will break out in brawls everywhere in the day room at the chow hall
In the showers. Wow. So you don't want to be caught
Fighting butt naked without the proper footwear. That's that's for real. That's a thing
So you will see motherfuckers butt ass naked shower. We'd be showering off naked
But with our boots on still and so my first punchline was it looks like we're all about to do black porn
Yeah, so that got like a huge laugh so I was like, oh, okay, so that's kind of how I got into it
I would just be like
Roasting like the mexican gangs. I'm like
Ernesto's been locked up for uh five years, but his baby mama's five months pregnant. How the fuck did that happen?
You better talk to your cousin Ernesto. You know shit like that. That's hilarious. Yeah. Yeah, but david lucas reminds me a lot of that just like
Just I mean just incredibly like that level of funny
Just comes from not giving a fuck right and I don't have that like I'm not that
That quick, but that it's just like this abandoned the yeah, he has he has that thing about him where
He's like it. He does. He's not trying. You can tell he's not trying that hard. No, some people try very hard
Yeah, and they're still very good or not, but he is
He doesn't seem like he doesn't have to put in a lot of effort into it. He doesn't have to at all
He's completely himself. That's so and that's when you become unique
That's when you go from being a good comic to a great comic
It's when you just let go and just be yourself. Yeah, but you still gotta like put in a lot of work. I feel like especially today's age
Oh, of course. Oh, dude never ends, bro. It never fuck. I wish I was a comic in 1987
That's that's a thing. I feel like sometimes doesn't connect
I feel like a lot of people who are just naturally good at shit talented at shit like david
They a lot of them they can't figure out
the
The discipline and the relentless work it takes to like make it absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah
That's why these guys I was locked up with would never
Dream of like going to hollywood or it just you know, it takes too much discipline
um, that's why most comedians
Don't aren't ready for this new age because they they don't have like a business mind for it
You know, like all the shit I do. I'm like talking about like brand deals and then you have like 11 podcasts
Yeah, yeah, and I'm going over talking about like oh do this on the thumbnail. So I'm being a graphic designer
I'm talking about titling it. I'm a marketing team. Yep. And then you know what I mean?
And then also I'm over here like trying to write about my my breakup, you know
So it's like you have to wear so many hats now
Meanwhile, you're in the fucking in Sinaloa interviewing. Oh, yeah, I forgot about that too. Yeah, and then I'm fucking talking to
Hitman in Mexico. Uh, so you just like you have to be so dynamic now
um, just
It's unfair like I'll you can't expect people to be able to wear that many hats
Definitely not. Definitely. So that's why it's like I want to I want to turn this
I want to turn this youtube shit. I want to it's it's going to it's going to transition into comedy
I know it will you know, but it just takes a lot of time and you got to break out somehow
So I was like, let me tell my story and let me get let me get hot this way
And then I'll bring people over to the comedy. So what what was like the spark that was like
I want to put all this stuff on youtube and put these like
Like serialized podcast episodes out there and make all these fucking shorts. How did that all happen?
And oh and how it desperation nothing desperation
No, it was like it was like I want to tell this story
I because it was the book
It was the book the book I wrote inspired at all the book is uh, I thought he was gonna bring it up
The book you don't have to days of the trap days of the trap. Yeah, you could just go
Type it in in amazon. Okay, but I was like, there's so much more to this
Like it was just it was it was literally thinking like a businessman like a drug dealer
I saw I looked at the market and I was like, this is being underserved
Like there's people that are with crime and drug and prison shows, but they're not
Yeah, I love the fucking title. Yeah, I love like the cover of it. It's beautiful. Oh, thank you man. Simple and like
Yeah, that's it right there. Um
And I think it's only available on kindle right now because we're reprinting it
We took the rights back from the publishing company and now we're going to relaunch it
Oh, so you might only be able to buy it on kimble if anybody's interested
But that'll be we'll be relaunching that soon with uh with an audiobook
But basically I looked at youtube and the algorithm and like I was saying it's either one or the other it's either
dorks
From the bbc that are like interviewing cartel members that are like, what would you do like I saw a motherfucker talking to
A guy from the sena loa cartel in a mask with an ak 47
He was like, what would you do if you found out I was a police officer and the guy
The mexican guy's like, where the fuck did you get this guy? You asked me that on camera
You're gonna make me answer that right? What do you think? Right? So it's like that shit and then it was you know
Like for lack of a better word like hood dudes ghetto dudes
That uh are super entertaining, but they have like terrible. They're filming it on iphone's and shit
So it was just a market niche. I'm like nobody's doing this. Let me try to do this
I think I could do it. I think it can work and so it's it's so far
It's been working out, but that that was really it like it was just opportunity. Yeah, you know what I mean
Have you seen some of the old like vice documentaries? Uh, like uh, what's it called chiroc?
Where they go through chicago? Oh, yes
Yes, yes, yeah trap houses in chicago. Yeah, yeah, yeah like how basically it's all the whole like drug scene
There is intertwined in the rap rap game. Yes. Yes. That that's like fucking one of the most amazing
Yeah pieces of journalism. Yeah. Yeah vice was really good back then. They were really fucking good back. Yeah
Yeah, they're a little watered down now. They're a little oh, it's completely. It's a 180. Yeah, it's not even close sold it
And it's just you know, it's a different thing. But yeah, that shit's insane
Chicago's nuts when you started putting this stuff out on your youtube channel
Did you expect it to like get as big as it did?
I knew because of the nature of the material that it was clickbaity
I was like, well, we're gonna get some eyeballs on us
But no, I didn't expect it to pop this quickly. Fuck no
I was I told my producer the guy who films it sets it up. He's he's now involved in creative decisions
The guy who does all the editing, you know, he's my right-hand man, brian
I told him let's just let's give this a year like just give me a year
I'm gonna underpay you for how much work you're gonna do but just just give it to me and then we'll reevaluate
And you know three episodes later. We had fucking 200,000 subscribers. I mean, it was uh, it's insane
Yeah, yeah four four months ago. I was working in a restaurant
You have like the short videos on youtube that have like hundred a hundred million views. It's literally oh, yeah
Yeah, there's one one of them. I think the first one I saw was where you tell how to like evade getting
Going to jail when you get pulled over. Yeah. Yeah talking about getting pulled over. Yeah my time my time getting pulled over
Um, yeah, so we had a lot of those
You know and it pops at ebbs and flows, right? Like with the you know, how the numbers are
But i'm just focused on like growing the show
Taking it to to a next level
That that nobody's doing like I want to be the anthony bourdain of like
Drug shows like I want to travel to all these different places. Yeah, exactly
But make it entertaining make it a little funny and make it fucking different, you know
Yeah, like nobody's nobody's talking about the shit that me or louise is talking about like no people are just like drug routes and the cartel is
Stronger than ever. Well, what is the cartel?
And oh the cartel's coming to your city. No the fuck they're not
Like nobody's nobody's really covering that shit. So that's kind of I really want to like dig
Deep and have it come from a personal place too, you know
so
Yeah, that's fascinating. You know, um
roger
He knows where georgio choa lives like he he said he I asked a lot of him. I'm like, I'm like, can we go there?
He's like, yeah, if you want
He's like, I'll fly down there tomorrow. We'll go. I know exactly where his horse ranches. I'll walk right up to his front door
That's a great rogerese
But yeah, so the ochoas apparently were
They say according to cocaine. What do they call it?
Cocaine cowboys that documentary that guy billy corbin florida boy. Yeah, he's been on here. Oh, yeah, that's right
That's right. He was saying the ochoas were really the the number one guys
Yes, you know, yeah, and pablo was kind of pablo was kind of like choppo
Not maybe not a glorified manager, but kind of he wasn't the he wasn't like the
The main guy the main guy were the ochoas old man. Oh, you would think that right because they fucking got pablo
And they killed him. Yeah, and they fucking posed with him like he was a fucking
Yeah, like a deer right like a deer. Yeah, exactly
So you would think that he had to have been part of some sort of pr thing just like el choppa was yeah
Yeah
So they said old man ochoa
Just like al myos embada. Yeah never did a day in prison
That old school patriarch. He was a horse breeder. You know, he was he was part of the oligarch
You know the oligarchic kind of circle in columbia
But they say he was the biggest
Trafficker out of the whole medellin federation back in the day. So yeah, his son, george ochoa
I guess is free
Yeah, just living his life. Yeah, he said uh, roger said that he breeds horses now. Yeah. Yeah. Well, they all they're exactly
That was legitimate. Yeah, they've always been horse breeders. Oh, they always have always been horse breeders. Oh, okay. Yep
Uh, well, I might have to take a trip with roger down in his uh, his sesna airplane. How sick would that be? Yeah, that'd be sick
Yeah, there's nobody doing that now. I don't think I mean now that you think now that sends vice
I don't think there's anybody really doing like
That fucking raw running gun type. Yeah, like in the jungle documentary interviews. Yeah
Yeah, and I don't want to be like, uh
I don't necessarily want to be a journalist. You know, I want to
I want to incorporate like politics and culture
And all of these different elements of what at wherever I'm
Documenting like I want to bring something, you know, yeah, like the way the bore dain show really became about
The culture and the politics of a country itself not really about food
Right, like that's kind of what I where I'd like to take the show, you know, yeah
Like I don't want to be a journalist, you know, I want to be a drug dealer
A former drug dealer who uh, is just kind of like
Living out his fantasy like getting to interview like
members of the fucking
Sina Loa cartel. I'm like, this is so serendipitous. Like I used to buy drugs from these guys, right?
And now here we are a generation later and I'm
I'm talking to them
How much of your work is still like how much comedy are you?
How much stand-up comedy do you still do?
I still do a bunch. I mean, I'm gonna stand up comedian at the end of the day. So that's your that's your number one. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, of course. Um, and I still do probably five or six shows a week
Oh, I'm in Los Angeles. Yeah. Yeah, and then I'm still on the road every now and then, you know
So we're starting to sell tickets
So we're gonna make a big push go on tour and do all that kind of stuff
But uh, this is the first step to like really like getting out to the people, you know
And you were one of the first people to actually be ambushed on stage. Yes. That was my first viral video
Dude, dude, we have a video of us showing that
To uh, this is just me talking about it. We have a video of us in a trap house
Showing that video to cartel members. Really? Yes, and then just laughing their fucking ass off
They're like show us some of your youtube videos. So we're all sitting around smoking weed find the one where he at the guy actually attacks
Yeah, um
What's that? No, that's comedian describes being attacked. Go back by midget
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's true. I guess
I don't know. I don't have audio
Reach my face, you know that one of you motherfuckers rush to stage and try to slap me. Okay
I got attacked on stage recently
Yeah, that one of you motherfuckers rush to stage and try to slap me. Okay
I got attacked on stage recently a short tiny little
Little boom boom boom fight the one
Rush this a stage of a comedy show. I was doing in hollywood
Oh my god will smith but not really I got carlton, you know what's that?
How long ago was that that was right, uh, that was around the same time that will smith, uh
No, the will smith slap on chris rock happened. Yes. This was like the end of february early march
All around the same time. Yeah. Yeah into a lot of people exactly if chappelle happen to chappelle
Exactly, and dude that's been happening to comedians not non-famous comedians forever, by the way
I just want to really people hate drunk people hate when they fuck up and you make a fool of them like I was
Shredding that guy like they were I had the crowd like doubled over and it was a black show too
So they were slapping the table. You're like that guy's been fucked in every hole. Exactly. Yeah, and I called the guy a snitch finally
Oh, shit perfect snitch mode. He rushed the stage
So but after we go off camera right there, you don't see it, but I had the crowd so on my side
I took the guy by the nape of his neck because he was like he's like five seven and i'm six foot six
Yeah, so we just I just like like wwe like power slammed him through a fucking table
And these dude a couple of these fucking audience members black dudes run over
Work because we're wrestling on the ground. I'm trying to like hockey punch him in shit
Like pull this hoodie over his head these guys run over and they start stomping him. They start kicking this shit out
Dude, yes
Yes, dude, it was wild
So so that happened and then literally and then I was like, oh wait they were filming that so I told the producer
I'm like send that over to me
I might be able to do something with this and then like a week or two later the will smith slap happened
And that was on my kim Kardashian sex tape moment. I'm like send me that fucking video dude
Yeah, and I posted it
And within a month it had
Three four five million views and now it's like over 10. This is the full
This is the full this is the full one if you find the short the short kind of
You can see if you hover over the timeline Austin, it'll show you where like so go like a minute before that like right there
Yeah, go right there
Play
Oh
Yeah, the guy's bragging about how he got into the show on a group on where was this this is outside
This was like an outdoor on a patio in Hollywood. Oh, okay. Yeah
Now the big guy's gonna feel emboldened, you know
So I had two hecklers one of them left
Ah, yeah
You got caught
Exactly
I was so high off an edible. I should have just dropped right there. Oh my I was so high too
That's what you don't know about that. So I was like it is surreal. I was like, is he really coming up here
He's suing the venue. What is he suing the parking lot? Yeah, exactly. No, it's a it was like a hookah lounge or something
Yeah, yeah, so and dude if you go read the comments everybody's like that guy definitely snitch
Yeah, if you got that mad when you call him a snitch that was the one like the fucking him in all the holes
That I didn't piss him off calling him a snitch. That was his trigger word, you know
Yeah, so I do I chop that up into like multiple different clips
But yeah, so that was like the first like that made my my my channel pop my personal channel
Okay, and then uh, how many views does that have?
That one the short the short original one is like over 10 million and that's three million on this one
Yeah, just on the on that's the long video and then there's another one with like six million
It's got like a b sides to it. So yeah, so I still get paid off of this
So I want to thank this guy if he's watching
You got me paid motherfucker. That is so fucking funny. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so um
So yeah, dude, but then but then the connect just hit those shorts, man
Those shorts are something else
And uh, yeah, I was talking about getting pulled over with a bunch of bud in the trunk
And like like the different throw-off methods that we would use can I talk about some of those? Yeah
So a big thing we did so we would go we took so many trips up i5 man with that trunk loaded
By the end we would have like I would have somebody go pick up the product for me, right?
And I would have like a spotter car on him, right? But for forever
We just we just went up that we just threw it in the trunk and fucking crossed our fingers, right?
So but sometimes we would like we would put like police or military stickers on the back of our cars
You know because cops love the military, right? That's kind of the same thing. It's a law enforcement
So that would be like a throw-off
You know one time I got pulled over
By a cop and I told him I was on my way up to portland doing list
And he fucking saluted me and was like just be safe quit speeding
Like that's the way I got out of it. And we were going buddy. Meanwhile. I got 20 pounds in the trunk. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, yep. Yep. I pulled that once
Yeah, I had different little tips for getting pulled over like
I would immediately cop to like if I got pulled over I learned to like immediately
Like confess to the fact that I was speeding or I took a turn
Because then then you you you you would put the officer at ease immediately, right?
Like this guy I clearly like I was going down like the side of a mountain like it was it was really like rural up there
So I'm just speeding down this like stretch of highway that goes straight down. You can't not speed
Right, and it was a speed trap
So I got pulled over or going like 15 over the speed limit and I immediately was like dude
I know I hit that way too fast. I'm sorry about that
So immediately like you copped to like the small infraction, right?
So
It puts the cop at ease and he's like, well, this is just a good guy
He's a citizen, you know, that's just immediately drops his his any kind of suspicion that he has, you know
Yeah, so I clipped that
And threw it up there and people seem to take to it dude when I was back in like the mid 2000s
I used to make a lot of east coast trips like surfing like dry like like traveling from here
To like south florida and I would go across alligator alley and there was probably three different times
Where I just randomly got pulled over and my little pickup truck and got my trucks my truck searched
Wow, really not smuggling drugs nothing like that
But there was just
There was a time when they would just pick off random cars
Yeah, like a huge percentage of them and just search them and for some reason and you let them search like yeah
I was like 17 of course. What are you gonna do? Yeah, you don't you don't know you have rights back, right? Yeah
Yeah, yeah, that's true. Why would they never got planted on me or anything like they never
Yeah, I don't think cops really have a reason to plant shit on you, right?
I mean, they've of course, you know, there's been huge scandals like the rampart scandal in la in the 90s where cops were
Literally working for the gangs they hire what hire like gang affiliated
People to work on the police force and they would plant shit on like
Oh, I didn't even know about that. Yeah rampart scandals wild
But yeah cops nowadays usually aren't gonna plant shit on like if you're a 17 year old kid, right?
It's crazy to think they would search your car. Were you smoking weed? No, did you look like a pothead?
Maybe surfers probably looking at pot. You probably look like a pothead. We're a surfer kid. Yeah
For sure for sure a little Toyota Tacoma pickup truck like
Tiny little yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, dude speaking of surfers
There is this you got to look up this drug busts. They need to make a movie about this
There were when I was in college
We heard about these college kids these frat guys that went to like San Diego state
And they were surfers
So what they would do and they were also coke dealers. So what they would do is they would drive down to Mexico to re-up
They would pick up like i'm talking real real weight like significant
Multi kilo re-ups. Yeah, and they would they would build them
They would have like the cartel guys or somebody down on the Mexico side
Like open up the surfboards
You know, hollow the surfboards out and stuff the kilos into the surfboards
And then put they would put them on the top of their Winnebago's or whatever
And they'd be coming through customs. They'd be like, yeah, we were just down there surfing gnarly
Shredding down here. That's not a man
And bro, they weren't fucking getting away with it. Wow
They're making millions of dollars on the roof of their car in plain sight in plain sight. Great idea. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, so that was and they were making millions of dollars as like high school
juniors
What a fucking genius idea. Yeah. Yeah, no shit. So I I always like found that so
Crazy that like, you know, these white boys probably from like rich families
You know would take risks like that. That's cowboy shit. I don't I don't
We never had sympathy for like guys like that that didn't really need to sell drugs
I mean, I didn't need to either but you did it
But we're so crazy with it that it was like, dude, you had this coming
You know, yeah, that's a funny thing too about like some of like the big the biggest
Narcos their kids don't normally get into that, right? They like move to the u.s. And do something respectable
It depends it depends or they take it over like
Myos kids his sons are going to take the business over. Are they really? Oh, yeah, definitely
Luis was telling me that his kids are like
They're like big on instagram and they're like they may be but they're also they're also like freely walking around the u.s
Well, those are the guys one of them is the guy who got caught ratting on chopper
He's not going to go back to mexico, obviously, although there's out. There's reports
Again, i'm telling all of Luis's business
But there's reports that he actually sneaks back to mexico to visit his father
But yes, those two kids are out of the game or maybe one of them was never in the game
But there's two guys got like seven or eight kids
So he two of his sons in mexico still are definitely taking over the business it happens
That's how it happens with the uh, calabrian mob. The uh, yeah the andrangheta in uh, Calabria, Italy
It's all lineage. It's all passed down. That's how it happens. That's how they monopolize
The the trade is that you have to you can't just join it like uh, like you can in the u.s. There's no free market
It's all passed down through lineage. So I think a huge part
Of of the game is passing it on to your kids, but in the u.s
That their kids go legit. That's the american dream
Like like that's the reason that the mob in new york has to go to the other side
They have to go to sicily now to recruit new members because their kids generally
For the most part are like going into the legitimate world and I think they want to you know
So it's much less of a cultural
thing and it's more of just like
Starts out in the u.s. Is just a way to survive and hopefully your kids
Become legit. That's what's cool. That's what I always loved about the criminals dream
was
Being able to go straight after that. Yes, like that. That's what I say on my podcast
The criminals dream is to no longer be a criminal
So that that's I was living proof of that almost like I was a I was gonna get out of the game
And have millions and and just funnel it into legit businesses
And it was it would have set me up for the rest of my life if I could have pulled it off
You know, I just didn't get out in time. I got too greedy. Yeah
That's one of the funny thing. I want you when you get Roger and you got to ask him how many
Waterfront mansions he still
Yeah, yeah, yeah, he talks about he bought all of his friends fucking houses back
I cannot wait to ask about that. I'll ask him on the patreon episode. Where's money?
How much money still have like, I don't know
I mean, obviously if you if you're buying them for other people as gifts technically, you don't own them anymore
Yeah, but
I wonder how much money got away with yeah, how much money he still has access to if he did it
Yeah, yeah, right, right. Well, he's so connected and he could probably get back into the game really quickly
But uh, you know, he'll never do that. I don't I hope not but yeah
I mean he made hundreds of millions hundreds of millions and this is back in the 70s, right?
But was he active
After the 70s. Yeah, I think he was I think he was active. Yeah, he fell in the a he originally got arrested when did berry seal get killed
uh
Early 80s early 80s. I believe well, we could probably look that up. Yeah, find out when berry seal got whacked
And it might have been the middle late 80s. I think roger was in prison when berry died
Oh, okay. Yeah, so that would have been the 80s. So he was in prison the whole time from
Roger was in prison from the 80s until like 2016. Yep. Oh, wow. Yep on multiple different continents. Oh, wow
Oh, yeah, so he died in 86. Okay. So roger was locked up probably roger was already locked up
He got locked up. But yeah, I think 82 does it roger reeves have a uh, uh page
Have a wikipedia page. I don't know. It's a good question. Google him
You know, so it's a funny thing too talking about like the lineage of some of these drug dealers. Have you ever seen, uh,
Uh, Pablo's son
Yes, yes, he's fat like Pablo super fat and like super ghetto like super hood interesting on his instagram
I thought he was a dork maybe has multiple sons because because one of them was a nerd
Who they moved to argentina, right? After after after Pablo got killed the family relocated
I didn't know that. Yeah, because it's not safe for them in columbia. Okay. Everybody is from is dead that worked at Pablo
but um
Look at him. Look at roger. He's on a podcast right there in that that episode
American pilot who was once the most prolific drug smuggler in history
He worked
He worked for Pablo Eskba and the Medellin Cartel
He claims that seal paid millions and bribes to the clintons. Yes. Oh, I cannot wait to ask him about that
I'm scared for roger. I'm scared when he's open with this information. It makes me worried for him
You know when he talks about it. He doesn't he doesn't like he's like, of course
Yeah, like it's no secret, right, right, right, right. He's very that's what makes me believe him is he's very matter of fact about it
You know what I mean?
um
Millions and bribes to the clintons when bill clint was governor to is that is that in order to
Yeah, to let them use mina, right to let them use the airport. Yeah, yeah and mina
Yeah, he was so barry would have dinner with the clintons like he goes. I'm having dinner with a governor roger
And he's wow. Yep. So so the clintons if we're to believe that that would mean
that the clintons
Would then take millions of dollars, but then who would they I just I'm fascinated. How would corruption at that level work?
they would then tell the
Tell the people that worked at mina like hey some planes are gonna don't don't you touch these guys
I guess because barry said that uh, I can land in mina arkansas whenever I want any time of day
He's like any day of the week that I want. He's like it just costs a million bucks like a million dollars per load
Wow. Yeah, so he could he had a green light and the airport and mina right in perpetuity as long as like it was
a certain fee I guess right right right so
Oh, so the thought is yeah the clintons
Are are taking cash
bribes and probably paying off
You know whoever is running
Whoever's in charge of like
Making decisions for you know the the military in arkansas. Yeah, right? Yep like that would that would kind of make sense
Yeah, I mean I don't know sort of fucking corruption
I don't know because the clintons can't just take money
And then call down bill clintons not going to call the airport mina and be like
Right. Hey, we got we got some you can leave this boy alone. He's gonna be bringing something in
Yeah, no, I guess there was there was some sort of protection that was always there when they landed right there would be like vehicles
That would show up. Yeah, escort. So everybody's getting paid out. Everybody. Yeah, everybody's getting paid out
You know who's like the foremost authority on this whole
Fucking topic who actually wrote a book on it. You've probably heard of the guy his name's shon atwood. Yes
Bald dude. Yes in the uk. He wrote he wrote like a series of books
All about this time in the history. Wow and all about the clintons. It's called like with yeah the the title of the book is like
Find out the name of his okay
That's not beyond the pale or he wrote a ton of books
Click on like the list of his books. It's called like the boys on the tracks
Or something like that. Wow
Keep scrolling it's one of his first books. There it is with the clinton
What's that one called clinton bush in cia conspiracies, but there's yeah
So he has multiple books on the clintons and the bushes and basically all of the quote unquote suicides
That the clintons have been involved in right the first ones were like a couple boys that were tied up to some railroad tracks
Yes, yes, it's supposed to be a suicide right and they were the guys who stumbled on
They like they were just playing in the woods. You know and they I think they stumbled upon like one of the planes
Being unloaded. Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting. So okay. That was the name of the book the name of the book is from it's like
Blah blah blah something from the boys on the tracks to jeffrey ebbstein
He ties everything from the beginning from the boys in the tracks all the way to jeffrey ebbstein everything about the clintons
Wow, like this dude went in and so it's pretty investigative
Super investigative like he went deep on all of it. Yeah. Yeah. God. Damn it. That is so fucking crazy
Yeah, they've been they've been dirty since yeah the beginning
I just saw an ad on youtube yesterday. Have you ever seen ads for that?
Thing called master class. Yes, of course. Yeah, they got one with fucking bill clinton now. Yes, right to teach about politics
I'm like, who better to teach about politics. So that's really what politics are. Yeah politics are corrupt and dirty and
Murderous sometimes. I want to buy that master class. Yeah, I can hear what fucking bills doing on there. No shit
Passive look at this shit, bro. Uh-huh on leadership
On leadership of all things by the way, just do they really need money play the play more money
Like why are they doing this? Oh my god? They don't this is insane
If you want to lead something start by saying this is what I care about. This is what a million bucks a week
Million bucks landed
Partly a day goes by that. I don't think how fast my life is flowing
How I remember is it where yesterday the first day I became president?
Oh god, oh my god, look at this. All the bushes can be done alone. This is a particularly disorienting time
For billions of people in the world. You've got major uncertainties about what's going to happen in the years ahead
At a time like that, you really need good leadership skills
And you need people whose goal it is Roger Reeves and Barry Shielder not drive them apart
People need to feel the potential to create a better tomorrow
This class is unlike anything I've ever done. I'll be teaching skills
I developed and used in very challenging leadership from Jeffrey Epstein on fuck island
Those skills will help you and your personal you ever banged you ever banged a woman with a scar
You don't agree with you ever fucker with a scar. It's not technically cheap
And you don't have to wash your dick after I don't believe being nice is inconsistent with being tough and smart
You got to be tough as nails with your tender heart
I haven't countered a lot of setbacks. This is psychotic politics. I've had ferocious opposition
This is wild. That's huge. You try to destroy me as a person
Holy shit
How fucking why I mean how much could be he be banking off of it like like they they're worth hundreds of millions already
Like what do they need? They're just they're just real like
They're just real
It's weird. Who's signing up for this? What kind of people like think about it
Think about could you put yourself in the shoes of somebody who is gonna be fucking sold on this? Oh, yeah MSNBC
MSNBC and the people that work in for the the major news outlets. They're like, yeah, we're gonna get clinton because what a
What an american what did he do for america?
He raised the minimum wage by a dollar. I think by the time he was out of office
Sure, he wrote the super predator bill. Sure. He took millions of dollars from uh and bribes from cocaine dealers
You know sure he locked up
Uh more more black people than like all republicans combined. Did you know that by the way? I didn't know that it wasn't
Reagan it regans blamed in the mass media for like the war on drugs and you know all of these like
policies that targeted like, you know black crack dealers and shit
He didn't give a fuck originally. He was like he had that old school racism where he was like just let the animals
You know, whatever we don't care what was going on. Just let him like he didn't give a shit at all
Yeah, it was it wasn't until he was kind of like forced by like pressure
Public pressure to come in and like start getting tough on crime and shit like that
But it wasn't till the clintons that the prison population started exploding and biden biden was involved in all that shit too
Yeah, exploding. Yeah
I remember seeing some of the old videos of biden and during that time
Yeah, like in front of congress saying some shit. They're gonna kid. They're coming after
They're coming after if you're selling drugs to my mother
You do not deserve to be walking around. Why is your fucking mother buying crack? Oh my mother's buying crack cocaine. Wow
Yeah, dude. Oh my god. I feel like we're living in the twilight zone. Yeah, it's it's done
It's like it feels like society when you watch the bushes
Now who probably also have an instagram account when you watch george w bush
Who's killed more people like than all of like the cartel members combined in all of history like you see him
Doing giving a master class and everybody being like, isn't that like politely clapping? You're just like
This is this is some 1984 big brother type shit like how quickly we forget, you know
Yeah, like we're applauding dick cheney for coming out against trump
We're applauding this guy for doing the right thing. Who's literally the biggest
war criminal
Like like since you know
Slow, but i'm elose of it. You name it the the chimarrouge
Uh fucking any kind of dick to millions of people dead
Isis all that shit all goes back to those guys
Conscientiously coming up with that that propaganda campaign. I know man
And it's crazy to how more and more of these things that we always thought were like conspiracy cover-ups
Are like being declassified. Yeah, it all comes out. It all comes out. But it's like when you see i don't know if
See shit be declassified like operation north woods
Oh, tell me about that that operation northwood was under
Kennedy with the the head of the cia alan dellis
They had a plan to in order to justify invading cuba. They were gonna fly. Oh, that's right. That's right air line
Or blow it up blow it up. That's right. That's right. That's right. Yep. That was their plan to invade cuba
Sounds like something that happened under the bushes, right?
So this is not this is not like anything new. This is something that's
You know, these are cia deep state tactics that have been
That have grown and evolved
And been passed down since world war two. Mm-hmm since the beginning of what became the cia. Yeah, absolutely
And it all comes out, but it's it's always after they're dead. It's always so nobody has to take responsibility for it
So we'll know who killed kennedy maybe in our lifetimes, right? I saw something just came out about that yesterday
Well, didn't biden push it back biden didn't i don't know maybe i think biden gave an order to not
Let that come out. Oh, did he really? Yeah, I didn't know that might be a google google. Here's my thing though
What the fuck would change if we fucking if they admitted they killed kennedy, right? Like what would change like, okay?
There was a cia plot. Yeah, the cia was involved the guy was
Whatever he wasn't acting alone. He was a patsy. Yeah, and yeah, what would change in in americans really?
I mean think of how many people would fucking pay attention to it first of all. Yeah, most people wouldn't be like, okay
Whatever we know we all knew that already
I think what would change is that we certainly wouldn't be
Biden officials sued over delayed release of jfk assassination records
So i'm not sure why like they didn't they didn't really talk about why they were
Why they delayed them
But it's absolutely a fucking conspiracy cover-up. Yeah by the government if you if you pay attention to any of it
Yep. Yep. So I don't know what would change. That's a great question
I think I think enough people would notice. I mean people already don't trust anything anymore, right?
Thanks to the power of the internet, but if it came out
that the government whacked kennedy
I think
I think it would hurt
Democrats more more we're not republicans too, but it hurt democrats more because right now most of the mainstream media
Is an arm is a mouthpiece of the like corporate democratic party, right? That's what I that's what I think
So yeah, so I think it would change. I think it would sway voting
Um, interesting, but you know still doesn't matter like there's no good candidates on either side
So I don't know I don't know how it would have changed like the future of america
Maybe I don't know maybe you could get a guy like bernie sanders, right?
Whether you agree with all of his like
You know policies or not. He's a guy that wanted to change the status quo
So maybe a guy like that could get in
Because enough people there would be enough pressure to get like a third party candidate in you know, yeah
Yeah, maybe something like that
Have you seen the video of
Trump being asked about 9 11 on the golf course and they're interviewing him no and he's like well, you know
There's a lot. We don't know about 9 11. Yeah a lot of shit that we don't know about 9 11
We don't have we don't have the full story. He's just keeping it real dude
He's he's he's taught he's saying what we're all thinking and talking about on podcasts
So he's back if this is crazy that he's saying that though if this were the 60s
He probably would have been assassinated. They probably would have tried to hit him if this were the 60s. They don't do that anymore
But like uh, but what he's saying he's he's saying what kennedy essentially was saying
Like after he made the the switch
Like the in 63 early 63 it made was late 62
He made that speech where he was like we're not
We're not going to pursue this cold war thing against the russians anymore. We're not we're going a different way
We're taking society
To a peaceful route. You know, we're not going to prop up the military industrial complex like he made that switch
And that's what got him killed, you know
Uh and amongst like, you know other things with like the mafia and his his his brother, you know
Investigating and putting cases on the mob after they got him elected all that shit
all that shit
Fueled it, but it was really when he said hey, we're going to take society into a different direction
That's what got him killed. So Trump was kind of saying that
Yeah
And that's why you know, that's why they came after him with uh with russia gate, you know
Man, what do you think's gonna happen? He's gonna happen when he fucking runs for president. Yeah, I don't know
I mean he thought about that at all. I I haven't I don't have it. I don't have the bandwidth
I can't even think about I can't think about like
Like what twitter is gonna look like all these fucking talking head. I mean, I forgot
I forgot elon put him back on twitter. He was back on twitter. He won't tweet. Yeah, exactly exactly
I love that though. He pisses everybody off talking shit about elon. He's like he was on his knees crying eating out of my hands
Dude, he's so funny. He's so fucking funny, bro. Dude. Yeah. Yeah. So he's he's really gonna run again. I don't know
I don't know what's gonna happen. It's it could be cataclysmic
Or he might just not he might not pull well at all
It might not even make that it could be uneventful
It could go both ways or it could go the other way where like, you know, they're they're calling for mass
Emergencies and they're taking rights away. You know, that's like the that's where the south steps up
Right when you guys stepped up like I I don't like the fact that everybody walks around with guns down here
But I'll tell you what that kept us from going
Full china during the lockdowns
Tell you it was it was texas and florida and all these places that have so many guns
That you you just couldn't attempt to mandate anything like that
Because you just people will will rebel. Yeah, so that really does keep the government that that's what it dawned on me
You know a good like I'm a good liberal kid from oregon, but I saw that and I was like, it's probably a good thing that the
Especially in this country that the populations are guns. I think it was more like the politicians
Yeah, but it's it is but like that saved that that like
DeSantis, yeah, what he did with the lockdowns like right he came out glistening out of that for sure for sure
They should probably run him over trump
You know, but yeah, it is kind of all backed up
Because the feds could like now we're just talking crazy right now that many people have guns down here. It's a very small minority
Seriously. Yeah, is that true most people here? I get 99 people that live here and that are here in this area right in florida right now
They're not from florida. Oh
They're from the fucking north. Yeah, northeast. They're retired. They're retired. They come down here
They're snowboard snowbirds or they move down here from the north like this is such a transient area
Oh, right. Yeah, and there's so many like like
Progress like liberal type people or older people that are right those liberal states that come down here
There's a very small group of people down here who are like big like dunk like gun toting
Oh, wow
It's not I don't think it's like I don't really know much. I don't spend a much time in texas, but
Texas, I think there's more guns texas
Is way bigger and there's there's so many big cities and yeah, everybody's got I promise you everybody except for now austin
But uh, most people there have guns too. So everybody's got guns in texas. Yeah, I do think it is
I just think if the federal government were to ever get so crazy to think yeah, okay
Well, they're defying our whatever emergency orders the state governors are we're gonna send the feds to the capitol building
I think they just wouldn't do that because they'd be like, oh, wow. No
They're there as they're more strapped than us, you know
The same reason that the the military won't go in and try to arrest
Old l. Myo Zambada down there and see you know, right because it's gonna be hell to pay like a lot of people are being killed
Yeah, I couldn't imagine if that day came. Oh, no, I I I can't dude like it's that'll be the end of
I don't know. Maybe maybe yeah, maybe it's inevitable that the united states breaks up
Yeah, somehow but you know, I hope it's not bloody, but I don't see how else it could be because
Like say if texas wants to split away from the feds
Well, the feds want that revenue like the federal government is not in the business of like getting smaller
Like the government is not in the business of getting smaller
It's just this gigantic monolith that needs to keep eating
Right because everybody's got to get paid and it shows it's it's natural that it would try to grow
It's like the prison population, right? It's so against their their
Interests to like let it reduce. Yeah, so I just think if texas or whoever california tried to break away
The the feds would send armed people in you know what I mean
Yeah, man, it would take something crazy like that to fix us
I feel like because you have like a lot of the like like countries in europe
They they don't fucking operate the same way we yeah, of course money and getting sick and yeah
Medicating people and prison industrial complex. We live in a sick fucking society, man and over there
They've already been through fucking hell. They've been through it all. That's what it is. We're just not we just haven't evolved
We just haven't been around as long. Yeah, you know, yeah
Collin Quinn is a great joke though making that one of the greatest comedians calling Quinn
He's he's talking about the fact that like it's crazy that this country's this big when you look at europe
That's why it's cut off into so many different countries. Yeah culture is different right like he's like and then his joke is
You can't tell me that
Bulgaria and spain have less in common than new jersey in utah. You know what I mean?
It's totally true like there's a reason the borders and mountains
Are used as like these natural barriers because like we're not meant to have this gigantic
Community it's impossible right you're meant to focus on what's going on in your own community. It makes it better
Yeah, it makes it better like yeah, we're not meant to manage as many people. Yeah, like it's doesn't it doesn't work
Yeah, the only question the only big concern is if once we're split up into five six seven eight countries
Who the big superpower right who's that gonna be right?
I don't know
I don't know it's not gonna be china china's fucked everybody thinks china's about to be the next thing. They're not no they're not
That's the only thing like I don't know maybe it's better that you maybe there's
Maybe there is no more distribution of threat that's that's what it is. It's better than everything gets decentralized
You know what I mean? I think
I don't think we'll ever we're ever going to solve it in our lifetime, but it's no fun to talk about
Yeah, sure. Yeah, it makes for good clickbait. Yeah. Yeah, we're gonna get about a fucking five million epic
viral shorts from this podcast
Yeah, we'll get a nice pop. Hopefully your channel gets a nice little pop. Hell. Yeah, man
Well, thanks for coming
But thanks for coming
I really appreciate it tell people where they can follow your shit and yes
Please please go watch the connect on youtube and on spotify itunes. You can listen to it as well
And that's we're putting up two episodes a week if you just go to type in the connect with johnny mitchell
I'll pop right up on youtube
We have an
Documentary episode every week where we travel to all of these different kind of interesting cartel places and and do crazy
Shit like that and then I I have a podcast where I interview people once a week as well
What's that one called? That's just called the connect as well. We're just dropping interviews. Yeah, we're just we're not even
What's your other podcast what they'll do with the long hair? Oh lio? We don't do that anymore
That was called the fuck man. That was the comedy's coming
But right now I want people to go check the connect out. Okay, but you can follow my if you like stand-up comedy
Go to my page johnny mitchell on youtube. Follow me on instagram. That's a big one at mr. Johnny Mitchell
That's where i'm posting all my alerts and my my my show dates when i'm out on the road doing comedy or when i'm in
Los angeles, so so yeah, those are the big ones youtube and instagram hell. Yeah, appreciate it real i'll link it all below
That's it. That's it, baby. Goodbye world. All right
