Luis, welcome back, bro. Hey, man, how you doing? Good to be here. Good, man, I'm excited
to have you back to talk about some of the shit that's going on all around Mexico and
South America. And it seems like no one's paying attention to it right now, but you
have had you've been balls deep in cartel world. Yeah, dude, I mean, I don't know if
locally or what, but it's just the way things goes, you know. I'm supposed to be reporting
the whole region like Latin America, but Mexico is keeping me so busy right now. It's so wild
what is happening in Mexico and what is about to happen. Yeah. Yeah. And like I was showing
you last night, we got the the trident's from my boy Manny, whose godfather is Felix Rodriguez.
Dude, we're going to be going to talk too soon, hopefully. That will be massive, dude. I mean,
I've been I've been after Felix Rodriguez for a while. I published this story about the
involvement of the CIA in the murder of Kiki Camarena back in 87. The first time I published
that story was in 2013 in a Mexican magazine called Proceso, before several years before
the documentary that it's now showing on Amazon. And I try to get a hold of Felix, but he's
a shadowy man. I mean, it's it's hard to get a hold of him, right? You see him, you've seen
him like once every now like on on on interviews regarding the killing of Che Guevara and his
operations in Cuba and Bolivia and South America. But he's never really talked about Mexico, right?
And what he did in Mexico by back in the 80s will be massive, right? If we can get a hold of him,
like, you know, yeah, one one of the first documentaries you pointed out to me before
we you first came on the show was that documentary called I think it was The Last Narc. Yeah,
was it with with I forget who the other guy was. But he basically they found out somehow that there
was a Cuban guy in the room when they were torturing Kiki. And the Cuban guy was most likely
Felix. Yeah, I mean, that's what sources say all the time, right? And there is like available
transcripts of that recording where they're torturing Kiki Camarena. But I don't know for some
reason, the file, I mean, the audio files have never been out. They I mean, several officials
also say that they don't exist, that those tapes are fake, they don't really exist in this fucking
rumor. But there are transcripts of the whole call. The thing is the transcripts, they don't
identify anyone right on on the room, they kind of like identify Karo Quintero allegedly, but
then again, Karo Quintero, he's an old man, he's always denied that he actually did something
to hurt Kiki Camarena. Everybody's denying that he's involved their involvement in the whole
Kiki Camarena case. Right, right. And Felix, so Felix was brought into the CIA, I think like
leading up to the Bay of Pigs, right, when they were training a bunch of the Cubans or the Cuban
Americans to like basically go over there and invade and fight. Yeah, exactly. He was like he
was a massive operator, right? He was a he's a Cuban that that used to know his country so well,
but he was actually working for the US government with the CIA as an asset because he knew the
region, he knew the language, and he was extremely, I mean, skilled for for what he had to do. I mean,
he found El Che Guevara, right in Bolivia. So he was like, he was like skilled, man. Yeah, yeah.
Hey guys, just wanted to drop in real quick to let you know that on the back end of this YouTube
channel, it says that 70% of the viewers have not yet hit the subscribe button. So if you enjoyed
this podcast and you want to see more underground investigative episodes like this one, I want to
ask you a favor and that's to simply hit the subscribe button below this video. By doing this,
you're enabling the podcast to get in front of and reach more people, which allows this thing to
sustain itself and helps us to get more strange and interesting guests on the show. So if you
will all just do me the favor and subscribe to the YouTube channel, I promise to keep making these
episodes better every single week. Thank you all. I love you. I'm back to the show. Yeah. He was
training the people in Mexico, the guerrillas, right, to go fight over in Nicaragua. Yeah. So what
was happening there is that the US government through the CIA had this arrangement with Mexican
criminal organizations. They weren't still called cartels back then, back in the 80s. The deal was
you train our people in the use of arms and, you know, fire weapon and all that stuff. So they go
and fight in Central America against the communism. And we'll let you a free pass for planes,
airplanes packed with cocaine into the US, right? That was the deal. The first time I reported this
story, I met Tosh Plumbly, a great pilot out of New Mexico. And he showed me a lot of his paperwork
for all the stuff he did with the CIA. He was in charge of bringing these loads of cocaine on private,
small planes. Sometimes there were like small Ceznas across the border from a ranch in Veracruz and
several other places in Mexico, back to the US. And at the same time, Caro Quintero, Miguel Ángel
Félix Gallardo, and Ernesto Fonseca, those guys were the head of what was called the Guadalajara
Federation, right? Right. And they were training people. They were training all these Mexican
henchmen to go and fight in Central America. I don't think they actually knew what was really
happening in the broader scope, you know, that like they were fighting the Contras and I think they knew
that they needed to train armed people to go and fight in Central America. But probably they
didn't understand who was behind the whole thing because that was one of the main things that
Félix was known for, right? For keeping a low profile on the CIA's, you know, like no
paper trail, no money trail, all that kind of stuff. So Félix probably went to these guys,
like Caro Quintero and Félix, and basically said, we want to train our guy. He didn't say he was
CIA. He probably just said, we want to train your guys to fight for... Yeah, what I think it's...
Yeah. Well, I mean, probably Félix just sold the version that he had a way to keep bringing
cocaine into the U.S. as a free pass. He probably said, like, you know what, I'm a huge trafficker,
so traffic on the guano or whatever, and I can help you out because I have connections,
so we can bring a lot of airplanes. So when the Mexican criminal organizations are like,
okay, this is a free pass actually working, they don't give a shit, what do they have to pay or
what do they have to do in order to do that? Their eyes are on the target. They want money.
Yeah, exactly. So they're probably saying, just train these people. We need... I need an army.
I need a personal army, whatever. I'm fighting another criminal organizations, whatever, Central
America. So just train a lot of my people. So they're like, yes, we'll train your people,
the use of arms, whatever, if you keep letting us, you know. And that's where Kiki Kamarena,
this former DEA agent, showed up. He found, first, this huge property where they were
harvesting weed, marijuana, in Chihuahua, the biggest plantation they've ever found ever.
But also he found these ranches where they were training these armed people,
and he was about to call on his boss. He had asked for a meeting with
this DEA supervisor called Kukendo. He's the only one who has never done any interview
when it comes to that story. He was the supervisor. He was Kiki Kamarena's supervisor. So if someone
knows what really happened, it's Kukendo. But he even sued the production company of The Last
Narc for how they portrayed his role in the whole thing. Really? So he's been out of it,
he's been out of every story. Because he's the main guy. He was the supervisor. He knows what
happened. But he's never talked about it. So I don't know, that's also kind of like sketchy,
right? Because you would come out and say, yeah, my agents were working good, whatever.
Kiki Kamarena requested a meeting to tell me something before he was kidnapped and eventually
killed. This guy, his supervisor, he was in the office when Kiki got kidnapped.
He was in the office and Kiki Kamarena was kidnapped right in front of the headquarters.
Going to lunch, waiting for his wife. Is this guy still alive? Kukendo? I think he is.
Probably between him and Felix, they have the whole fucking truth of what happened. If they're
going to tell the truth, sometimes I don't know. They're probably going to die before they actually
tell. Felix is getting old, man. Felix is like 80 something, right? Yeah, he's in his late 80s.
Walks around with a cane apparently and gets around very slow. He needs to come clean before
he leaves this world, dude. Just to know. It's probably true that he could say, I wasn't even
there. I swear to God, whatever. We'll take a bible to swear on it. Dude, it's crazy. It's like
what we were saying last night. It's like the olden days of when the Guadalajara Federation
controlled everything. It seemed like it was a much more smooth operation, way less bloodshed
than what it is now with all the factions that are competing for power down there in Mexico
right now. Right now in Mexico, what is the dynamic and the power structure of the cartels?
Is it mainly just the Sinaloa Cartel and the New Generation Cartel? Yeah, well, basically those
are the, this is what changed through these years since the 80s probably. Back then, they were
basically, or Korean organizations, they were cartels. They were drug cartels. I don't think it's
accurate to call them drug cartels anymore. We keep hearing the same thing over the news, right?
Like drug cartels is probably the easiest way to make people to over simplify what these
criminal organizations are. But I don't think it's accurate at all because they're not just
drug cartels. Back then, Felix Gallardo and all these dudes, they were trafficking drugs and that
was their whole business, right? They didn't have any other business. But these criminal
organizations right now that we're dealing with today, they are everything but drug cartels.
Drug is just one revenue stream from a huge array of different revenues they get. Like they're
involved in extortion, they're involved in kidnapping, they're involved in monopolizing,
they're involved in basically the sites of corruption, right? Like let's say
you want to, you're running to be a local president for a municipality in Mexico.
You want to win. So the cartel shows up with you. So like, okay, you want to win this thing?
We can put a lot of money and get you a lot of votes. So you win the election but in order,
after you get elected, what you're going to do with us is you're going to give us all the contracts
for construction, for constructing hospitals, roads, schools, new developments, all that stuff
because that's the way they're going to make money out of it. On these semi-legal things, right?
They're monopolizing water, they're monopolizing gold mines, they're monopolizing a lot of like
natural resources all over Mexico. Now they're all over with the immigration, they're basically
handling the whole illegal immigration path and networks in Mexico and Central America.
So they're everywhere where there is money to be made.
But cocaine is still like 80% of their revenue, right?
Yeah, cocaine is pretty large still. But I'm not sure if I will call cocaine
it's still a main revenue for them. I think it's a study.
You wouldn't even call it a main revenue.
No, I think it's a steady revenue. Probably the most steady revenue they have.
But when you talk, when you have things like fentanyl, which is huge revenue for them,
I think that that's displacing the revenue from cocaine.
Cocaine right now, it's at its lowest price per kilo in the US.
I thought I saw a story, I've talked about it on this podcast recently actually.
I thought I saw a story somewhere where one of the bosses of the Sinaloa Cartel put out some sort of
message to all of the other bosses or people that were working in the cartel saying that
if they caught anybody mixing fentanyl into cocaine, they'd be executed or something like that.
And there was like signs or something they put out.
Yeah. If you take into account that they make public this announcement,
it's not for their henchmen, right? Because they have private communication,
they have private ways to communicate with the other organizations and stuff without making it public.
They have walkies, they have means to reach every other member of the organization to tell them
there's a ban, right? But the fact that they make it public says that they're talking to us,
right? To people, to media, it's propaganda, exactly. That's what they leave banners and that's
what they leave like bodies with a small mountain of fentanyl pills. So that's literally to this
mark, to unmark themselves from the whole industry saying like, no, we're the good guys,
we're enforcing side by side with you guys, US and Mexico government, we're working all together
to stop the fentanyl production, but that's bullshit. They're just moving kitchens to other
places. Right now, if you go to Sinaloa, it's really hard to find a laugh, a fentanyl laugh
in Sinaloa, right? Because there's a lot of operations, they don't want to be on the spot
and that stuff. This is the article. Sinaloa cartels message to members, stop making fentanyl or die.
Crime group yields to intensifying US law enforcement pressure and is kidnapping or
killing producers who defy the ban. Is there a picture of the banners that they're posting?
Oh, no, it's a paywall. This is all propaganda. This is just to get the media attention.
That's what it was intended for, right? For articles like this. So everybody says like,
okay, they want the US media attention. That's what they want, right? They reach out to
journalists, they reach out to Mexican officials, they put out banners, they think it's going to
make flashy news headlines the next day. And we all fall for it. I mean, of course, my editor
asked me like, hey, do you want to write a story on it? And I'm like, okay, let me just call some
of these contacts I have in Sinaloa to see what they say, what they feel. And of course,
everybody said like, did it's bullshit where I mean, everybody's still cooking fentanyl. It's just
a way to make it look like the organization is not involved anymore. Because even rivals,
like the guys in Tijuana, right, the Arayano Felix organization, they've been rivals forever
with a with a chapitos faction with a Sinaloa cartel. Are they still legitimate? They're still
around. I mean, it's not handled by the main family members. But they're still around. The
organization kept the name, but it's just new players left, left overs of probably the leftovers.
But even so, they also set up banners all over Tijuana saying like, yeah, we support
or rivals initiative of banning fentanyl also on our territory in Tijuana. So we find fentanyl
whatever. But if you go to Tijuana, it's so easy to get a hold of these M30 fake oxys or fake pills,
you know, which are all laced with fentanyl. So it hasn't stopped. I mean, the fentanyl trade,
it hasn't stopped. It hasn't even wind down. It's it's huge. They just moved the kitchens.
I wrote a story about the kitchens being moved to Bogota in Colombia. They started moving the whole
thing to small apartments in Bogota to San Luis Potosí. So they're different Mexican states.
That's literally what's happening. So where are the cartels are at now? Like you just mentioned,
they're not just drug cartels anymore. They are multinational empires. Exactly. Yes. They're
controlling many states or countries in South America, Mexico. How many total countries are they?
Dude, I mean, I guess, I don't know. I mean, it's gotta be because again,
you have to understand these. These are like criminal enterprises or criminal insurgencies,
right? They're huge and they're not vertical. There's not like a single boss and then a bunch
of people, they're like more horizontal organizations with with smaller verticals,
tiers, you know, you have a boss and then probably four guys and then below, you know, but for the
most part, they're horizontal organizations, very dynamic. So you kill one, they move another one.
If you arrest one, just the next one pops up, but the organization keeps at it, right? So that means
when you try to identify what is and or who is a member of a cartel, it's kind of hard because
the old lady who is a lookout on a corner for the cartel, is she part of the cartel or is she
just getting, you know, 20 bucks a month to make a call whenever she sees something strange?
Uh, what they call cartel, they themselves, the people who call themselves cartel are just
the henchmen, the armed people. Uh, when you go to Sinaloa or to with the guys of the Jalisco
or New Generation, whatever, what we see as the armed branch of an organization, that's what
they call cartel. So if you say like, if you, when I, exactly, basically, and when I interview
people that are managing the organization that are in charge of money or attorneys or making
decisions, they hate it when you call them cartel members, right? So, so you're a cartel member,
they're like, no, no, no, I'm part of the organization, right? The Sinaloa organization,
the cartel is just the armed branch of our organization. That's how they see it. And I
think that's probably when we were having a hard time to identify what is cartel, who represents
a cartel. Again, the buyers of the whole thing, of the drugs, even if they pay with money or they
paying with arms, are on the spine of the border, right? Or on the US side? On the US side. I mean,
that's, that's where the drugs are intended to come. So most of the buyers are on the US side
of the border. So are they cartel members or are they part of the organization or are they just
clients? Like, it's hard to tell who it, like the boundaries of what we call a criminal enterprise,
right? Because when you think about like, let's think about like a proper enterprise,
like let's think about Coca-Cola, right? You have employees and then you have a buyer
on large scale. So they say like, okay, I'm a distributor for you. Do they work for Coca-Cola
or they're just distributors? How does that mean? How does that play out in the criminal world?
The whole thing is to get arms and money from the US and drugs into the US.
So you need a buyer. Even before you start cooking or buying, if you want to get into it,
like as an independent, what you first need is a client, right? Someone who's already buying your
shit. So you will go to LA or Miami or whatever and find a buyer and you say like, amen, I have
the capability to bring you 10 kilos of cocaine, purest quality, whatever. And when that person
agree and it says like, okay, yes, let's do it, then you go to your source and then source yourself
and make money within that transaction. But then that's literally how the whole world of drug
trafficking works, right? So there's a bunch of them representing the cartel or the criminal
organization on the side of the border, usual buyers, usual distributors, people that knows
what arms they need back in Mexico, you know, where to source them. And they're also making
money out of it or collecting the whole money for the criminal organizations, laundering money
through hotels, through real estate, through a bunch of different industries. And they are
part of the organization, right? They are probably the most important part of the fucking organization.
They're not, right, right? They're kind of the shots, but they're handling the money. They're
handling the whole part of the operation that makes a criminal organization work.
They're like the sales team. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
So right now, basically what we have in Mexico is this dynamic, very dynamic operation between
criminal enterprises or criminal insurgencies that they work
very, they work side by side with the Mexican government as well in terms of corruption,
in terms of getting rid of rivalry or even political rivals, you know, these past federal
elections, we have the most violent election process in Mexico's history. There were over
19 candidates killed all over Mexico. What? When? It was fucking wild. It was, I think,
two years ago, two or three years ago. Actual presidential candidates?
Not all presidential candidates. Political candidates. Like state governors, local municipal
mayors, presidential candidates, it was wilded. And that only shows you that a political
aspect of Mexico, it's not only political anymore, it's also criminal. They're embedded,
right? Because they order these hits. Why else will a cartel or a criminal organization
go and kill a politician if they don't have stakes in politics, right? So that means they
work side by side. And right now there are two main factions. We do this, the Sinaloa cartel
with the Sinaloa organization with a bunch of different factions and the Cartel Jalisco Nova
Granación, which is now breaking, starting to break into little factions as well. Those are the
main ones, not the only ones. There are still the Cetas Vieja Escuela, which is a branch of the old
Cetas, Cartel, right? You have the Cartel del Golfo, Cartel del Noreste. You even have...
The worst ones are on the East Coast, right? Yeah, I mean, I don't think they are on the
East Coast because they really operate and hold Mexico, but they have stronger stakes on the East
Coast because that's where you have the biggest international port, seaport, where the precursors,
arms, money are coming in, right? They're coming in from the Gulf? They're coming from the West
Coast, from the West Coast. So you have all the coasts of Sinaloa and all the coasts of Michoacán,
right? So that's where the two main cartels are based or operating probably more strongly.
And then you have on the northeast part of Mexico, in Tamaulipas, Nuevo León, you have the Cartel
del Noreste, which is a strong cartel, also a branch of the Cetas. And then on the southern part
of Mexico, you have this really interesting new development, which is an indigenous cartel.
They're called Cartel Chamula. Chamula is an indigenous community from southern Mexico,
Maya descendant, and they formed their own cartel, like their own criminal organization,
to fight against the Calisco, fight against the Sinaloa cartel, and to handle their own
their own shit. And they communicate on this Mayan language between each other. You have to be a
Chamula in order to be part of the Chamula cartel. So the dynamics of the criminalization in Mexico
are wild and are ever-changing. So it's really hard to put a black and white thing on them,
like these are the good guys, the bad guys, these are the most violent, these are the main ones,
because there's a bunch of them. Even if you talk about just a single organization,
like the Sinaloa cartel, there's a bunch of factions. You have Mayos and Badas faction,
you have Los Chapitos faction, you used to have the Minilique or the Damasos faction,
you used to have Los Ruzos faction, right? So you have different smaller families,
like Los Alasar, Los Cáceres, et cetera, et cetera. So you have a bunch of different families.
And when you talk of the Cartel Jalisco, Nova Generación, for the most part,
they are a single brand. But right now, it's breaking down into the Jardineros,
and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, like different other smaller players that are trying to break
their own branch of the same organization. That's interesting what you said about the
indigenous cartel in southern Mexico. We just had a guy on here a couple months ago,
or maybe two months ago, this guy named Luke, who explores southern Mexico and south,
like Mesoamerica, Central America. And he basically explores all these hidden cities.
And there is like millions of miles of hit uncharted cities in the jungle down there,
in southern Mexico and Central America. And he says, sometimes when you go out to
like these temples, he's like, they're guarded by armed cartel members,
because these guys will loot those places, looking for gold and shit, and looking for
treasure and artifacts and pottery and artwork. And they'll sell it on the black market for tons
of money. A hundred percent true, man. Yeah. And that's what I was telling you. Like,
these guys are not dealing with drugs. They have a branch that is looking for gold,
that are looking for gold or silver or ancient artifacts, you know, to sell like to traffic
and all that stuff. And that's literally how it works. The thing is, these criminal organizations
are going to be around like flies around shit when there's money to be made, right? When you go to
places like the Sea of Cortez in Baja California. Beautiful sea. And you have a huge, you have a
season where a lot of jellyfish come out, come up, right? So that's, that's not working for tourism
and shit. So the local fishermen, they sort of like fishing all these jellyfish. And there was
interest by the, by a couple of companies in Taiwan to buy all the jellyfish from them.
Because they eventually, they hydrate them, treat them with salt and sell it to China,
because it's a luxury food in China. So when the cartel learned about that, they're like,
okay, so you're making literally millions of dollars out of jellyfish that we don't use in Mexico?
Okay, we're in. So they started going in, the Sinaloa cartel particularly, by threatening
local fishermen, they killed one and they burned a couple of the trailers where they moved the
jellyfish just to, to make a statement and say like, hey, you're not, you're not going to deal
directly with these Taiwanese companies. We are going to be in the middle. We're going to buy
from you. Super cheap. There's, there is no permission for anyone to go out into the sea
without our permission. You need to ask us for permission to go and fish jellyfish before you
do. So we know how many exactly you got out of the sea. And we have control of the whole
operation. We're going to make money out of it. So they monopolize the whole yellow fish
business now in. They're literally like a parasite to any sort of fucking money-making
operation that exists down there. Like it's a communism. Yeah, yeah, literally. What the,
I wonder what China uses the jellyfish for? They eat it. They eat jellyfish? Yeah, yeah. They,
they, they, they hydrate the yellow fish. They treat it with salt and they eat it like, like.
It's like a delicacy? Yeah, it's like delicacy. Yeah, it's like, it's like,
you find some photos. I wonder if it tastes good. I, about these. Peanut butter and jellyfish
sandwich. It seems to be like super salty. I mean, that's what I've been told that it's super
extremely salty. Probably not, not tasting good for us, but. Jellyfish is eaten in China and
other Asian countries. And China jellyfish is eaten as a delicacy in many ways, including in
salads, a part of cold appetizers and marinated dish. Oh, it doesn't look bad. I bet you it's
some soy sauce, but I bet you it's pretty good. I'm not sure, man, because if it's already salty,
could you imagine that even with like soy sauce? Oh yeah, that might be too salty.
Dehydrated and pickled with sesame oil and salads. I want to try some now.
Yeah, I don't, I don't, I don't feel so inclined to. The fishermen were making millions of dollars
harvesting these jellyfish. Yeah. And now they're being taxed by the cartels. Exactly. Just as,
as what happened with the. I mean, is it a fair, is it a fair tax or is it a tax that looks really
cripples their business? Literally, this past season, they, they lost the whole season because
they couldn't pay the. I'm saying is it a fair tax? Like. Yeah, like a fair. It is fair. 20%
fair. That's, there's no fair game. Yeah, so it's wild. They had to stop the whole season
because they, they didn't want to deal with, with cartels, right? They were too afraid.
It was wild. What's up guys? I'm super psyched to introduce to you another product that I've
been using for years now that was also recommended to me by the world renowned nutritional scientist,
Dr. Dominic D'Agostino, and it is called KetoBrainz. KetoBrainz Neutropic Creamer is a way to perfectly
dial in your morning beverage to bring you razor sharp focus on demand. I start out every day
with KetoBrainz and my cup of coffee to combat the midday slump and I use it for pre-workout.
KetoBrainz Neutropic Creamer has efficacious doses of focus inducing AlphaGPC, Lion's Mane,
AlphaWay Promoting L-Theanine, and ketone stimulating C8 MCT powder. And all of those
high functioning Neutropics are packed into a delicious creamy coconut powder. It tastes amazing.
It's a Keto Neutropic powerhouse and it tickles all the right neurotransmitters to give you the
flow and jitter-free energy with absolutely zero crash. There's no dosage tricks involved. It's
just one scoop is a full serving. You can put it in your coffee, your tea, put it in your water,
whatever you want, and you get 30 full doses per package. There's no pills and there's absolutely
no waiting for it to work. It kicks in like that. You can keep your brain razor sharp,
primed, and ready for action with KetoBrainz Neutropic Creamer. Whether you're an entrepreneur,
juggling multiple projects, a student studying for exams, or you're an athlete that's trying
to optimize your training, KetoBrainz will not let you down. All right, here I'm going to list
all the ingredients contained in KetoBrainz and what they do. It increases ketone production via
AG C8 MCT powder. It increases acetylcholine and HGH production via 300 milligrams of alpha GPC.
It increases GABA and alpha wave production via 250 milligrams of L-theanine. And it increases BDNF
and NGF via 500 milligrams of lion's mane mushrooms. And these are all carefully sourced and third
party tested ingredients. This stuff quite literally increases acute brain function,
protects your brain and mitochondria long term. And last but not least, it makes your coffee
delicious. If you're interested in KetoBrainz and you want to get a big discount, just go to the
link in the description below, KetoBrainz.com and use the promo code Danny20 when you check out.
Again, that's KetoBrainz.com. Hit the link below and use the promo code Danny20 at checkout. Back
to the show. I spoke with one of these fishermen and he's like, dude, I'm too scared to go out and
who's going to ask for permission and how's that going to work? And if you're in the middle and
they think that you're ripping them off and so like, no, you got more yellow face than what
you're telling me, whatever. So he was like too afraid. Well, didn't you just do a story about
some farmers who were getting extorted? They were basically taxing them so much. And the farmers
got to a point where it's like, they're not making enough money on harvesting whatever it was they
were. The avocados. They weren't making enough money. So where they either had to die fighting
against the cartel or die of starvation because they weren't going to make any money. Yeah,
this has been happening in Mexico for a while. Every Super Bowl season, the US consumes so many
avocados and guacamole that it makes a war in Mexico. We love guac. Dude, every Super Bowl
season is war season in Mexico. So now there is a police called the Avocado Police, La Policia de
la Guacate in Michoacán. It's basically civilians geared up on their own resources to look over
Michoacán. That's in Sinaloa? Or that's Sinaloa in Michoacán. No, no, Michoacán is a different
state, but it's central Mexico. So that's where the self-defense groups came up 10 years ago
with the Polito Mora, right? The first time they basically armed themselves and said like,
we're going to fight against cartel, we're going to fucking die. Eventually, they won the first
fight, which was a great precedent for, I mean, a great background for Mexico. So a lot of people
started forming their own guerrillas or their own self-defense groups until cartels said like,
you know what, fuck it, we had enough. So last, not this year, I was in Michoacán because they
killed the founder of the self-defense groups, a man, a very fucking brave man, a farmer called
Ipolito Mora. He was the leader. He was kind of like the central figure for every other self-defense
groups in Mexico, right? And they killed him on his way back to his house from his farm,
and they burned him alive inside his pickup truck. He had guard by the Mexican state officials.
They put him guards to protect his life because he has been receiving threats.
Even they all got killed and burned inside the vehicles. It was sad and alarming for,
I visited his house, I visited the place where he was burned, where his body was burned. Dude,
everybody was like quiet, like in a fucking funeral. No one was like saying anything,
they told him to start at, it was really, I don't know, dude, it was like, yeah, kind of like sad
and scary at the same time. So what's going to happen with his farm? Well, they kept it.
Who kept it? The fucking cartels. The cartels kept all of his line. So they killed him and they
got away with stealing his fucking farm. Yeah, dude. And very recently, probably the story you
were talking about, probably like two weeks ago, in Mexico state, these farmers also
got extorted, they've been extorted forever by La Familia Michoacana, another cartel in Central
Mexico. But they asked for twice what they were getting. They were paying one peso per square foot
on whatever they were harvesting. One peso, right now it's 18 pesos per dollar.
So it's probably a peso, it's not significant in US currency, but for a Mexican one peso per
square foot of what they were harvesting, right? A lot of corn, beans, whatever they're harvesting.
So if you have, I don't know, 10,000 square meters of whatever you're harvesting, you need to pay
a peso for every square foot right of that. And they asked them for twice that. They're like,
okay, so this year you're going to have to pay starting this year double two pesos per square
foot. They had a really bad season because it didn't rain in that part of Mexico this season.
So they were like, dude, there's no way we can pay that. So they're like, well, you either pay or
you die. They said yes, but they met a night before they had to meet these guys to pay the
taxing, right? And they met at a soccer field in this little town in Mexico. The cartel members
showed up, all geared up as usual, dressed as military members, whatever. And then the whole
community showed up. They showed up with shotguns, machetes, sticks and stones. And they were like,
we're not paying shit, man. And a fucking hell broke loose. You see the videos, there's people
getting called, kill like that, like, boom, right in the fucking head. And then the bag is like,
boom, you killed my friend. Everybody said killing everyone. In total, there were 14 murders. 11 of
those murders were cartel members. So that was a big win for that community. Because they killed
the leader of the La Familia Mitruacana in that region. So they're like, fuck off. Now this past
week, they came back, La Familia Mitruacana came back to that town and kidnapped a lot of young
girls, a lot of babies, mothers, kept, they're keeping them as ransom. So they, because they
asking like, turn, turn over your leaders, the guys who started this fucking fight,
turned them all over to us. Or we're not gonna, we're gonna kill all the, all your family members.
And the situation is still tense. I mean, they still haven't released the, the kids, the women,
because they want to, they want the community to turn over the leaders of who started that
revolt against the cartel to teach them a lesson. And what does the Mexican military do about this?
So they're asking for help? Nothing. They've been asking for help for
probably the last five years, this community. And the Mexican army or the Mexican government
never showed up. What the Mexican president said was just like, oh, yeah, yeah, we knew about,
we knew about those guys that were major targets for us. We were just unable to find them before,
but they're dead now. So you guys are good. And that's it. That's it. Yeah, dude, it's, it's mind
blowing what's happening right now in Mexico. That's fucking insane, man. While. Now who, who is,
so you just got done with a, you did a really big interview with, and I think, did you partner with
Grillo to release it? Yeah. What, what, what was that interview? That was with the guy who basically
was Damoso Lopez, right? He was partners with, with El Chapo. Yeah. Or he was, he started out as
a security El Chapo, like he gained his trust over the years, however long it was. And then
eventually El Chapo made a deal with him saying, if I ever get pinched or if I ever get killed,
you're going to take my spot. Yeah, exactly. And this guy that you met with was his son.
Yes. Got it. So basically the, the, the Damosos started off when, when El Chapo escaped for the
first time from, from prison in Mexico, right? His first. He helped him escape. He was the director
of the, of the prison. He was an attorney and, and he was the director of that prison. Right.
So he helped El Chapo escaped. So when El Chapo escaped, he knew they were going to come after
him. So El Chapo offered him a job. He's like, okay, after I'm gone, come and look for me in
Tinaloa and I'll give you a job. And he made this guy Damoso Lopez Nunes, el licenciado. He made
him his right hand in the cartel on his faction, right? So he was dealing with, he was basically
calling the shots. Like even though I'm going to get a lot of, a lot of these comments saying, no,
dude, he was never a shot call or whatever. He was the brains behind El Chapo, right? El Chapo
will consult everything to him. It was like, okay, we want to, what do we do? We're facing these and
that. And he was, he was a small man. He was, he was a fucking attorney. So he will say like, okay,
let's not go into a fight. Let's do these, or let's go into the fight. Let's form a new group.
Let's move money here and there. He was El Chapo's right hand, his most trusted man.
And they became compadres basically. He was the godfather to his sons and Damoso was godfather
to Los Chapitos. So they were family basically. They were embedded with them. They were family.
They grew up together. The son of Damoso López Núñez, Damoso López Serrano, El Mini Leak.
He was basically part of Los Chapitos. They grew up together. He was best friends with Alfredo.
He was best friends with Edgar, the youngest of Los Chapitos. And eventually when El Chapo got
kitten, what would Chapo got? Was he friends with El Mini Leak? Good friends with Ovidio,
Indivan Archival, all those guys. They literally grew up together. He was best friends with El
Maggio's son as well. So he was like, there was a pack of narco juniors, you know, basically owning
the whole fucking state of Sinaloa. And so what happened is when they arrested El Chapo, he was
got extradited. He sent a letter to Damoso, to El Licenciado, saying that all the money was for
his four kids and his wife, Emma Coronel, right? But the organization, he was going to leave that
in hand of the Damosos, right? El Leak and El Mini Leak. Probably was a smart move.
Wait, wait, wait. So the money, meaning the money that they already, the cash or the income that
the business was bringing in. I guess both. Like the cash that he already had, the properties,
all that shit. Because on the letter, what he said, it was like, you already have enough money.
Just get out of this shit. Live your life. You have more than enough to his kids and his wife.
You live your life. You have more than enough to live a good life and live your organization in
the hands of Damoso, right? It was probably a smart move because El Chapo probably thought that
these was coming. These were against those chapitos and that they're going to end like him,
extradited to the US, facing life sentences and that kind of shit. So he didn't want that for his
kids. He's like, well, you don't want to let El Licenciado take the fucking heat and you guys
retire and live well. Well, they didn't want to do that. They were like, fuck no, the organization
is ours. We're the head of the organization right now. They didn't listen to his dad and they started
fighting against the Damosos, against their godfather, basically the one in charge. For what
I understand, Damoso, El Licenciado, tried to negotiate, right? I always try to like say like,
guys, this is what your dad wants to happen to the organization. I don't want to fight with you.
But then they started, you know, killing his henchmen, killing his security people.
The Chaitos are killing his. For what? For what? Minilic told me. He's a version of the story.
And every time they will come after them saying like, hey, why are you killing our people? They're
like, oh, it wasn't me's take. Sorry. My guys were like really high or really drunk, whatever,
but I'm going to give them a lesson. Sorry about that. And they keep doing it, keep doing it, keep
doing it until Damoso Lopez Serrano, El Minilic got fed up with it. And he talked to his dad.
He's like, dude, I'm going to go all in against Los Chapitos. Fuck it. His dad was like, dude,
we don't need to fight. We don't want to fight between a family within a single faction. Let's just
solve this out. He gathered a group of other cartel members from everywhere, even from like
mafia people from Canada, like from everywhere that they hated on Los Chapitos, right? So he
gathered a group, made a WhatsApp group and said like, hey, we need to get rid of these fuggers.
Like they're just making too much waves here in Sinaloa. We don't want them. What do we do?
So they started planning. And by the birthday of the oldest, Ivan Archivaldo Guzman,
he was celebrating in Guadalajara at this fancy restaurant. And they kidnapped
the four sons of El Chapo. The order was to kill them, right? But El Mayo got in the middle.
They tried to negotiate. And then El Chapo was imprisoned in Ciudad Juarez, right at the border
between El Paso, Texas and Mexico. And from there, this is before he was extradited.
Before he was in 2017, probably a couple of months before he was extradited, 2016, I'm sorry.
So he called, he managed to get the news from the guards there. And he requested a call. So he
called a prison in Jalisco, where El Cholo, his right hand, his henchman, El Cholo was arrested.
And he said like, hey, Cholo, I know you get along well. We get along well with Almencho's
people, whatever. I know that Almencho's, the head of the Jalisco Cartel New Generation,
I know that his son is in prison with you and your friends. But you know what? This is no time to
make friends. I need you to kidnap him inside prison to make him disappear until they let my kids go.
So El Cholo went after the son of Almencho inside prison, kidnapped the kid, made the director
of that prison called Almencho. So like, hey dude, your kid is nowhere to be found. And this is a
message to you. As long as soon as you free my kids that are kidnapped, I'll free yours.
Meaning Los Chapitos.
Meaning Los Chapitos. So, so basically, El Mencho was like, I'm not, I'm not part of this yet,
but it's my turf, right? It's, it's well, it's Jalisco. This is my turf. So he ordered the
chapitos free. So they had to free them. And then they freed his son inside prison, right?
And that's how they, that's how they literally declared war against each other.
Los Chapitos against Damoso. Los Chapitos eventually managed to get a lot of, like,
more power and overpower the Damosos. And Damoso was arrested in Mexico City. Damoso,
dad, listen, he was arrested in Mexico City.
What year was he arrested?
I think it was 2017.
Okay.
And then months after, Minilic couldn't hold the, you know, the his, his turf.
So he had, he went for the border in Calexico and turned himself over to the DEA. He has
been talking with the DEA for a while now. And he had been like planning on turning himself over
so he can, you know, give information against Los Chapitos. And now he's the main guy behind the
hunt against Los Chapitos. Because he went, he served for five years. They released him. He's
free. He's not under WITSEC. He's not under, uh, uh, witness protection or whatever. It's just
the main source of information.
He's not under witness protection at all?
No, he's not. They're protecting him. The DEA is protecting him.
The DEA is protecting him.
But he's not, he'd never signed as a WITSEC. He's not signed in as a WITSEC.
How much protection could you possibly get from the DEA?
Not sure, man. Not sure. But, but when I met him, I cool-tell that there were a couple of
agents around the place we met.
Oh, really?
So they're, yeah, they're putting an eye on him.
To, so, okay, explain to me how this interview came about.
Whoa, like, did he reach out to you out of the blue? Or how did this happen?
Yes, he reached out to me through Instagram first. He sent me a DM. And of course I'm like,
yeah, dude, I mean, I get reached out by this amount of career.
Your DMs must be insane.
They're fucking wild, man. They're fucking wild.
I mean, every, probably I get, what, like, five,
ten messages or requests every single hour of people saying everything from threats,
from help me, I have a family disappear, whatever, to advise, amen.
I'm traveling to Mexico. Is it safe to go to this resort in Cancun, whatever?
Right.
To, hey, I'm Elmayo. Hey, I'm talking to you on behalf of
this crazy secret organization in the U.S. that you never heard of and we're gonna kill you.
To, there is a bounty on your head to watch out. I'm a U.S. official and I know that this is
happening. To, this is a new software. Criminals are using a part of it called Titan. We'll get
into it later.
The, these leads all come in through your DMs.
Most of the leads come through.
Most of them do. How do you filter out which ones are legit or not? Do you,
do you actually go through them all?
No.
I imagine it's gotta be hard to keep your sanity, bro.
No, no, no. I mean, there's no fucking way I can go through it all.
What I usually do is when I think there could be a story, I go and try to vet the information and
the people behind it. If that person is not willing to turn on his video camera to share
ideas, to share like, kind of like that kind of shit, I just drop it. I literally drop it.
Right.
If someone tell me, even if it sounds like good info, most of the guys with good info,
they will do. They will follow. They will like,
I'll show you.
Yeah, dude. Like, let's move to a secure app. I have a couple of secure apps and let's move
to that, open an account on these, on these several secure apps, whatever, and turn on your
camera so I can know you, so I can, because you know my face, you know my name, you all,
you know all about it, but I don't know who's behind that account. So it's only fair to be
on a neutral space. I know how to take care of your side of things. So you don't get backlash
or whatever. I'm not going to record anything. We're just going to talk first, right? I need
to understand who are you? Why are you bringing this information to me? What are your motivations?
What do you want for it? What kind of information is this? I waste a lot of time with kind of like
fake, weak leads, right? But sometimes it works because you get some strong fucking leads, you
know? So sometimes it's just nothing, all news, something that it's just rumors, something like
I know a guy who knows a guy who has a cousin that blah, blah, blah. How do you vet or how do
you, what like red flags do you look for when you're vetting some of these people that are
messaging you? Like to determine whether they have some sort of ulterior, ulterior agenda or motive
or might just be like one faction of one, one cartel that wants to like attack another faction
or paint another faction of bad light or first red flag is when they say it's just for the sake of
truth, just for the sake of, you know, everybody has an agenda to like everyone, especially they
reach out to someone who's about to publish something. So yeah, so most of these guys are
I speak with a lot of honesty. Like that's what I do. I talk about my ways of doing it. I'm very
honest on saying like it's probably nothing. I'm probably not even going to publish this shit or
just stop and don't tell me shit because I don't want to know about that stuff or just like, hey
dude, I'm going to have to, if you bring this information to me, I'm going to have to vet this
through US and Mexican officials. If you're good with it, I mean, I'm going to try to protect your
identity and everything. But with this info, I might have to bet it through these people to see
if they know something. So I'm super honest about my process, right? And when the person behind that
account is honest as well, and it's like talking to me on video or whatever. And so like, you know
what, you know why I'm bringing this here? Because I want to retire and I want to fuck these guys over
and that's it. Or they did me wrong and I want to fuck them. Or I just think this is overstepping,
you know, my morals or my, you know, things. And this is something that I don't want to be
involved into. But I got this info. So I'm just handing it over to you and do what you're gonna
do. Or yes, I'm a member of the faction against those guys. So those guys are like the like Damaso
himself. When he reached out, he said like, Hey, man, I'm Damaso, mini leak. I had uploaded a couple
of videos about him. And because he was recently freed. So I uploaded a video saying that he was
free and we have the video that he originally sent you. No, no, no, no, no videos that I posted on
my YouTube talk about you, right? First, like saying like, Hey, so Damaso was freed. This is
this guy. This is what he did. This is blah, blah, blah. This is what it was going to say, like
debriefing what it was Damaso, right? And then he I got reached out. He's like, I'm reaching out to you.
First of all, because you talk a lot of bullshit. But most of that bullshit is not necessarily lies.
So I just want to set the record straight for you. And I'm like, Okay, I don't know. I don't
know if that's a compliment or what. But if you are really who you say you are, let's move towards
your app and turn on your camera. I'm pretty sure that I can recognize your face. So he did.
He turned on his camera and he had this hat on. And he was in selfie mode. And I was like,
Can you move your hat a bit up, you know, so I can see your face. And I saw his face and he was
him. And I was like, Oh, shit. So it's really you. And it's like, Yeah. And I'm like, dude, you look older.
And he's just laughing. It's like, Yeah, you look more fucked up to camera.
So I'm like, Thank you, dude. So, so yeah, I mean, can you show me your idea, pass for something
that has your name? Yeah, I mean, I don't have to, but I'll do it for you. So he shows his idea,
whatever. And then we kept talking, we turned off the camera, kept talking for a while.
So I'm like, dude, I'm very interested in an interview with you. But I'm pretty sure that
you're reaching out with an agenda, right? Like, what is it? And he was very clear about it.
It's like, I just want to fuck the chapitos over. So I just want to talk a lot of shit I know about
them, and how things really went. And yeah, that's, I mean, I'm being transparent of my intentions.
And I'm like, Okay, so that those are your intentions. On my intentions, the intent, the I
don't want to fuck anyone. I don't I couldn't give a shit about like fucking with chapitos or whatever.
I just want to interview with you. And that's the main thing. I'm interesting. Can we agree on the
middle ground where I'm when I'm going to make an interview with you, but I'm not going to talk
shit about these guys, any unproven, unproven shit. And he's like, No, I have proof of what I'm
going to tell you. And okay, so perfect. So we agreed on on meeting, right? In person, in person.
Yes. So I flew to LA. He was not living in LA. He was living somewhere else. So he traveled by land
to LA. You weren't really concerned about meeting with him because he'd already done his present
time. He was a free man. Like he had no reason to fuck with you. Even though, I mean, you never
know. So yes, you still never know. Yeah. So I was absolutely, I was, I was kind of like
concerned about that. But I was like, okay, dude, I'll just do it. You know, I flew to LA.
He asked me to be on tour the hotel to have a whole protocol when I travel to meet people,
you know, a whole protocol that I'm, of course, I'm not going to disclose in detail, but
there's a whole protocol to. Do you have people that go there for you in advance to scope out
the location? Like a lot of people like, I know presidents, when they go and visit places for
meetings or presidential candidates, they have what's called an advanced team where they go.
Like if they're meeting in a hotel, they'll have a team of guys that like walk through the hotel,
talk to people and like. No, I don't like, I work on a way more simple, you know, protocol
part of it. I can say probably part of it. It's just either arriving way earlier, day or two days
or three days or even a week earlier or a week later, you know, and say like, sorry, whatever
blah blah blah. So I, yeah, that's part of it. Like, yeah, so it's a whole protocol I have that
has worked for me to make me feel safe. Even choosing the, I just asked, because he said the
place, but I asked to choose my own room and booked my own thing. So like, okay, you want me to be
in this hotel, particularly, I'll be there, but let me handle the whole fucking thing of my
arrangement of flights, transport, hotel room, all that shit. Because he's like, yeah, I can,
I can put you in that hotel, whatever that like, no, I don't need you to do that for me.
Just set a place and I'll handle the whole fucking thing, right? So he said the place,
set the date and I had, so I requested a certain room where I feel safe where it has like certain,
you know, ways of exit and security protocols on a room. And yeah, I waited
and he showed up at the agreed time. And, and he was very normal. It was like just like a regular
dude you meet and say like, Hey, what's up? Do you armed when you go do this?
On the US side of, of the border, most of the times I'm not, but sometimes I am.
Sometimes I am in Mexico. No. But in Mexico, when I feel this is the thing,
my, the simplest thing about a security protocol is that if you feel you're gonna,
you have a chance to die, like a real chance, like a real threat should don't fucking go,
right? So it doesn't worth it. So that's the, that's the simplest thing. It's like, okay,
so I feel a real threat. I, something is off. They're asking me to travel to these places,
to meet these guys. Nah, I'll just pass on it, even if it's,
you hear that? Yeah.
Do you hear that sound Steve? It's the coyotes. Oh, it's that. Okay. Sorry.
So that's what I do. When I feel like, okay, I might, I might go
in Mexico, depending on who I'm meeting, if it's like a middleman, middle range, whatever.
I do have a bunch of contacts in Mexico that I just ask them like, Hey, can you watch over me?
That's a good, yeah. They're like super, super
legit in terms of their, they won't say shit, right? They won't say who I made, where I made
nothing. I trust them enough and they trust me enough, but they are heavily armed and trained
people. Good, good, like heavyweight guys. Yeah. Like a paramilitary guy or on this side,
like a fucking Navy SEAL or something. Yeah. They're super discreet. They're around like regular
people, whatever, but I'm like, yeah, can you help me out on this one? But if I need them to show up,
you know, like proper geared up or whatever, then I ask them like, yeah, you can show up
like geared up and whatever. They will show like, like basically security escorts and you know,
like that kind of shit. Especially when it's a bar, when it's a public bar crowded with people and
you know, like a club or whatever and they, someone wants to meet there for a reason. I ask
them to, to go like fully, you know, like, yeah, like, can you help me out and why at a bar would
you want them to look like that? Because you show, you show that you're with people, right? You show
you're with security and so they're basically bodyguards and you want them to, to, to know that
you have bodyguards because when you, when you put into the mix alcohol and shit, right, then
things can go off fast. This is the, that's the other thing. Like I've been reached out recently
by a source that is slow dude, like probably one of the biggest interviews I've ever, I could ever
do eventually if, but this dude is always wasted dude, like shit faced. So I'm always trying to
let him know like, dude, okay, call me tomorrow when you feel better, right? Because I don't deal
with people that are under the influence of anything because yeah, you need a clear mind and,
and, and also I need respect, you know, for like, dude, I'm giving you respect. I'm a journalist.
This is my job. I'm being a professional. We're not friends. We're not, you know, this is not a
social gathering. This is work for me and I'm, I'm taking time from my family or from whatever
my work, whatever, to give you time and I appreciate you giving me time for this, but I need also
respect from your end. You can call me all shit facing like, Hey, I'm decent, blah, blah, blah,
even if your info is great, I'll rather pass on it because that's not the way I work.
Right. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor,
Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed I am
with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on the show is nutritional
scientist and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this stuff. Verso
is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that
hold a potential to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate these
zombie cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie cells
infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss,
wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging. What scientists
have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup process of the
old zombie cells and replacing them with new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night,
is a powerful blend of synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes
like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation
and natural cardioprotective functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine, lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth
and proliferation. Specifically, when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
danny, it's spelled D-A-N-N-Y, to save 15% off your entire order, or just go to ver.so
forward slash danny. Back to the show. Damus was very serious, right? He was like
cleaned, serious. How old is he? He's 37. Yeah, if I would have met with him in the hotel, I would
imagine my first reaction would be like, we got to meet in the lobby or in the restaurant,
at the hotel. This is the thing. I requested for a room with a window to the street where I knew
he was coming. I asked him to show up at a certain time. Well, he asked me to meet him at a certain
time, and I'm like, I'm going to meet you upstairs. I'm going to meet you in this room.
But I changed the plan, so I met him
on the street. When I was looking over the room, I saw a couple of D-A agents around,
because you can tell they're like, cargo pants, these Oakley glasses. Really? They kind of scouted
their place, and then he showed up. He pulled over on the blackest. So he had the D-E-A as an
advanced team for himself. I think he didn't have the D-E-A. I think the D-E-A was like...
Just following him. Yeah, following him. So I'm like, okay, he's moving. Apparently,
he's going to go into this hotel for some reason. So boom, they kind of went and say, okay, let's
see what happens. You're doing like a legitimate spy craft. It's crazy. And then I saw him arrive.
And before he pulled out, I was already in the street. I was already out in the street,
so I greeted him. He kind of surprised them. I opened his door, he came out,
and he was like, hey, how are you doing? Hey, dude, how are you doing? I'm like, hey,
dude, all good. So what's up? It's like, hey, you want to jump in and probably have a drive and
grab something to eat, whatever, before we're going to. And first I was like, probably not
the best idea. But I kind of felt that he was pushing a bit for it. So I was like, okay,
so, okay, I'll follow through. Yes, let's go. So I jumped into the back of his car,
black car tinted windows. Who was driving? One of his guys. I didn't-
Did he have a lot of money? Dude, yeah, man, like, yes, like a lot of fucking money. Yeah.
Like his own driver, full-time driver kind of money?
These guys from, we've seen a low on accent, young kid. I thought he was a family member or
something like that. He was like, like, quiet with a bunch of like cash money on his fanny
backpack, you know, and a cap driving around. What? What are you laughing at? He had a fanny pack
full of cash. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, bro. Because this guy, I mean, he was not able because of his,
because of the condition, legal condition, he's not able to meet journalists, family members,
criminal members, or former criminals, or handled money, right? He needs to use a
pre-approved debit card where the DEA, you know, allows him to, allow him to keep some of his money.
But of course, what else is going to do? So he has a bunch of cash, right? But he's not handling.
His other guy is handling the cash. What kind of cars are you driving?
I can say, I mean, probably, yeah, I can say, and we want, I do, I can say that we want to
have pancakes. Handcakes? It's surreal, dude. Waffle house or our IHOP? Waffle house, sitting with
fucking this former leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, and his henchman or whatever it was, he was,
he called him secretary, so with his secretary, and a fucking waffle house, having blueberry
pancakes. Oh my god. Well, it wasn't pancakes. Waffle house doesn't have pancakes, I don't think.
It's only waffles. Waffles, yes. No fucking way, dude. And, yeah, yeah, and then, yes, I mean,
some other people showed up, I can say, whatever, and then we went back into the,
into a hotel room, I was like, so you're ready? Like, do you feel good to go back into a hotel and
then start an interview? And he's like, yes. Did you feel pretty good about, did you have, like,
build a rapport with him during when you guys were eating waffles? Yes, yes, yes.
Pretty confident. Yeah, dude, what I want to do with every single source is, first,
that they know that they have my respect, that I'm not judging, that I'm not, you know,
anyone to judge whatever they do, whatever they want to say. I don't give a shit.
They're fucking humans, so I try to find a common and relatable ground, right? Something, even if
it's a sport or a color or music or something we're having common, so we can start, like,
doing small talk and relate, relate to each other, right? So we can find common ground right
before going into full. A lot of the journalists, what they do is they go into full journalist mode
and just dump a bunch of questions, right? They're like, so how do you start it? Blah, blah, blah,
blah, this and that, tell me these, tell me that, tell me boom. I'm not easy on them because I
question Damoso really hard and the accusations of him killing a journalist, probably the last
brave journalist in Mexico, Javier Valdez. He was a fucking legend, dude. He was an inspiration
for all of us and he is accused, formally accused of killing Javier Valdez. Who accused him? The
Mexican government. The Mexican government is asking the US government to deport Damoso so he
can face jail in Mexico for the killing of Javier Valdez. So this is not, not only an issue of
cartels, this is a binational political issue between the two countries.
Does the Mexican government really care or do you think it's the fucking a proxy cartel within
the government trying to get him? Exactly. That is what it is. That's exactly what it is.
Anyways, I question his version of him not killing Javier Valdez and he said it was
Los Chacos. So how long, okay, so let's go, let's do it. So after you guys had breakfast,
so we went back to the hotel and then what, how did it go? Did the guy come with you? Did you guys
go alone? No, no, we came all together. I had the room already set up, you know, no personal,
no, like my backpack was literally ready to go right next to the door in case something,
you know, whatever. We came up, he sat on a chair and his other dude sat on the other,
on the other side of looking towards the door and I literally sat on the floor. It was like,
there was another chair or whatever. No, I'm like, I'm feel comfortable sitting on the floor just to
just to make a statement that I'm cool, you know, I'm not feeling threatened,
so we can all relax and be cool. And I sat on the floor and I started talking,
sort of like, so this is probably the first and last time I'm going to talk to you. So
do you have enough time? And it's like, dude, I don't have anything else to do,
but sit on my fucking house. So by all means. So this interview last like for
probably, probably like 12 hours, led in 12 hours, we kept talking, we ordered food,
kept talking and talking and talking. I first wanted to get out of the fucking room, the whole
journalist thing, right? Javier Valdez. So one of my first questions started with that.
I started with like, how do you feel? What are you doing now? What is your what is your legal
situation right now? What is happening with your dad? Is he still behind bars? Are you comfortable
saying openly saying that you are cooperating with the US authorities to go against those chapitos?
I explained what my plans were to publish, right? It's like, this is not going to be
biography or some shit like that. I'm going to push back into what you say and lay out what I feel
is the truth in your impressions. He only said like, I hope you're not too harsh on me. And I'm
like, well, let's see, man, let's let's see how the text goes. I'm not going to be particularly
harsh on you. It's just the way I write. It's it's it's trying to try to be as objective as I can,
right? So so I want to get rid of the white elephant in the room Javier Valdez. And he's like,
okay, let me tell you and I'm like, okay, before you tell me, I shouldn't tell you that one of my
biggest fears right now is to be sitting across someone who killed a journalist, right? Because
if you kill the journalist, then you're basically a direct threat to me as a journalist as well.
So I don't want to be in the middle of that. So if you if you come true and you say the truth and
you say, you know what? Yes, I was involved. I'm not going to be judgy. But I'm probably going
to call this interview often and just leave, man, I can't do this like that. And if you even if I
feel you're not telling the truth, I also might take everything else you say for untrue, right?
So let's get rid of that shit. I'm being honest with you and being clear. I'm risking
myself a bit, too, to be here. I'm being like, good to you. So let's let's talk
con los huevos. Let's talk like with balls. And and yeah, I mean, he's startling out his version
that is out on the story. He said basically that he was in him. That it was los chapitos.
Because of the of an interview they put the Javier Valdez publish with Amazon.
He published an interview. Yeah, when they were at war,
Damos reached out to Javier Valdez, to these journalists. And he said, like, amen,
I want to give you an exclusive interview with me and my dad telling you what is happening right
now in Sinaloa within the Sinaloa Cartel. Javier Valdez said, OK, let's do it. He he did an interview
with both of them. And he published the interview. And when he was about to publish the interview,
los chapitos somehow learned that he had interviewed Damos. So they asked him, like, amen,
how much money do you want for not to publish that story? He said, this is not a money thing.
We're going to publish. We're going to run the story. And then he called his the director,
the owner of the newspaper. So like, hey, I want to buy you that interview. How much money do you
guys want? And they say, no, we're going to run the story. So they published the story and los
chapitos sent all of their henchmen to to basically get all the newspapers distributed in the whole
state. So no one could read that story. So they and they burned the whole fucking. Yeah. So they
stopped the delivery, pick up drugs, whatever. And then they burned the whole fucking thing.
Then they published the story again. Is this verifiable? Yeah, everything is everything is
it's it's a it's a very far version of that happening. Even the director of the newspaper
published the whole fuck is this version on the website, right? So before that, I mean, after
that, they published the story again on the next on the next printed version, right? And they posted
it online. That's when they that's when they killed Javier Valdez, right? But but right after
the interview, Javier Valdez also published an OPD calling Damoso a shitty fucking henchman for
the Sinaloa cartel, that he had no decision making capabilities. And he was like dumb and,
you know, kind of like trashing me leak. So after that, after they published those couple stories,
he got killed right in front of the newspaper. Damoso says he was killed by los chapitos because
he he he published that interview. But los chapitos said it was Damoso because he kind of like
insulted him. What Damoso says is like, imagine if I go killing every guy who who is insulting me,
I mean, it was gonna be fucking blush at all over. I can't take I can't take an insult, you know.
What does your gut tell you? My gut tell me that is that he that he that he was los chapitos, man.
I mean, it kind of makes sense. It kind of makes sense that that you know what? What I think is
what really killed Javier Valdez is the impunity that is in Mexico. He a journalist in the US will
never face that faith. Even if you're giving an interview here, getting into there, you publish
some shit, blah, blah, blah. There are journalists who never face the questioning on who was who was
the one who killed me. What got him at the end is that he got in the middle of a fucking war of
factions and that he didn't have no protection by the authorities, right? That the whole fucking
state is run over by these guys. So whoever killed him, whoever of these two factions killed him,
they shouldn't have been able to reach out to him in that way, right? To threaten him, to kill him
if if the Mexican government will do his job, right? So either way, my gut says it was probably them
because they didn't they they show that they didn't want that story published. But I'm not
putting my hands for that muscle because he could easily be that was he had a lot of power.
He of course is a man capable of killing people, right? So I'm not putting my hands to power for
his version. This is what it says. I still haven't had an interview with any of those chapitos
to hear their version, right? Hopefully one day I can bring the other version, their version.
More journalists die in Mexico than anywhere in the world.
Than anywhere in the world outside of a war zone.
Outside of what? A war zone. So what else did you get out of that interview with him during
that 12 hours? So basically, we got rid of that shit and then he started telling me how he became
part of the organization, his whole that story, how he grew up and how he didn't want to be part
of the cartel. He's like, dude, I wanted to be a pilot. So I wanted to study for a pilot. I started
like my school, whatever. But in order to be a pilot in Mexico, you need to go to at the end,
you need to go to the through the Mexican military to get a permit to fly. So he's like, okay, I
approve all my tests and exams, whatever, I showed up to my dad. It was about 18 and he's like, dude,
I need my credentials from the Mexican military, I'm going to show up to the military zone here
in Tinaloa, whatever, to ask for my card. And he's like, the fuck, you're not going to do that,
dude. Like that's too risky. No, find another fucking thing to do. He's like, what do you mean?
He's like, dude, you have my same name. The government is all after me. They're going to be
after you or they're going to take you in order to get me. So no, find another thing to do. So he's
like, what else? And he's like, just set up a business. And he's like, okay, so I started setting
up a business. And then my dad said like, okay, but you're not going to run that business, right?
You're going to have a frontman running that business for you. And he's like, no, dude, the
whole fucking thing of doing a business is to run a business. He wanted to get his hands dirty.
Yeah. And no, he was like, no, dude, like, if you do that, you're risking yourself. You're putting
yourself out there too much. They don't. If you want to have a business, I can give you the money,
put the business, but have a frontman run from you for you. And he's like, nah, it doesn't make
sense. He doesn't want to just be an investor. He wants to actually do something. Do something.
And then his thought was like, then he was like, okay, so then you want me basically to become a
fucking trafficker. And he's like, fuck no. And he's like, dude, there's like, you don't let me
do anything. I want to do something. So yeah, let me, let me move some bricks. And he's like,
all right, we've wanted to do that. That's, that's how you. So he gave him a couple of bricks.
He told, he told me that he sold the bricks, came back home, and his dad asked him like,
how much money do you made on them? And he was like, I don't know, let's say they paid 10,000
for the bricks, sold them, came back, how much money you made on that? And he's like, 10,000.
He's like, what do you mean 10,000? 10,000 on top of the 10,000? He's like, oh, 10,000.
And he's like, dude, the whole fucking business supposed to be made for you to make money, dude.
That's how they explain to him how the economics of buying and selling works.
So he's like, okay, so then he started learning how to do that shit, right? How to sell bricks.
And, and how to, yeah, he was eventually in charge of moving large quantities of cocaine and
shit in Tinaloa, and then handling the money and then, and then he like kind of like kept
stepping up until the war between the factions broke loose.
What is Damaso's relationship? Does he have a relationship or does he have any communication
lines open with El Chapo? No, he said, not anymore. He said he was, he was, he said like,
at the beginning, of course, I felt bad, but because El Chapo was my godfather when he escaped,
we gave him, we lent him our houses and we were in charge of his security. So he was around.
And when they killed El Chapo's son in 2016, I think, Edgar. They killed his son? They killed
his son, dude. Which one of his sons? Edgar, he was the youngest. Oh, fuck, I didn't even realize
that. Edgar Guzmán, he was killed, allegedly, by mistake, because the same, by the, by another,
by this, by his same organization, they thought there was, they thought he was part of the
Beltranlevas, a rival faction, the Central Cartel, but it was allegedly his own same organization
who killed him by mistake. And he was best friends with Damaso. They were, they were best friends,
like since kids. Damaso says that he's still very heartfelt for what happened. He's like,
I was supposed to be with him that night, but I got a call from a girl. So I went into her house
and when I'm taking a shower to go to him, they called me and say like, hey, dude, they killed
Edgar. And he's like, dude, that broke my heart. He was my best friend in the fucking world.
So whenever I met El Chapo, El Chapo would ask me like, how was Edgar? What kind of girls
he liked? And he, he was kind of like replaced Edgar with me. So, so when I got married, when
every birthday and stuff, El Chapo would show up to my parties, but he wouldn't show up to his
son's parties, his own, own weddings or birthday parties or whatever.
He would show up to, to them, but he will show up for Damaso's, right? So they started getting
jealous. Like, why the fuck are you, is our dad showing up to every single one of your fucking
parties? He's not showing up to us. So he was, he felt like he was in the head of El Chapo. He
was like another kid. But then he was like, well, I asked him, like, was it hard to testify against
El Chapo on his trial? Like to point him and say like, yeah, this is the man. And he's like, no,
dude, at the end, he sent a letter to his sons saying that I'm going to find the fucking rat
who's writing on you guys. And I'm going to have been killed. So he's like, okay, so he's after me.
I'm just going to go after him. Fuck it. So he went, yeah, he's like, I don't feel bad about it.
Like, fuck it. This is the name of the game. He's either his life or mine. So it's going to be his,
right? And, and I'm like, dude, how comfortable you feel telling that you are sharing all the
information the US has against Los Chapitos. And he's like, dude, that's, that's what I'm,
that's my fucking plan. That's my goal in life right now to have him either killed or arrested.
And I, and it's like, he told me like, I swear to you that I'm going to see the four of them here,
the three of them here, the four of them, sorry, here in the US. That was before Ovidio was
extradited, right? Right. And after this interview got published,
who reached out to you? So this is the thing, the interview got published on, on crashoutmedia.com.
Sorry for the advertisement. This is a self stack. We're managing,
Johan Grillo and myself were kind of like partnering to publish exclusive stories there.
And this story went huge, right? Especially in Mexico.
Before, quick aside, before you published it, or before you even interviewed him,
did you reach out to some of the big like media outlets that you typically work with?
Not before interviewing him. After interviewing him, after I recorded the whole fucking exciting,
I recorded the whole interview with proper podcast microphones and shit, like I got a
gear and I have a full, it's not, it's not the whole hours, of course, it's, it's about a three
hours interview. Wow, you edited 12 into three? I didn't record everything. Okay. I, yeah, there
was no fucking way I could have enough space to record everything, right? So I did take notes
on everything, on everything, everything. I'll have like huge notepad on notes. And, but I have
three good hours of audio, of that interview. But then, okay, so I didn't reach out to anyone,
probably after a month after the interview. So I was planning on how I'm going to publish it,
is it worth it, what scenarios I'm going to face, what backlash can I get from that,
the legal side of it as well, you know, like the whole fucking thing. So it took me a month.
Before traveling, I also was dealing with another set of stories, hard reported stories,
you know, so complicated. So I need like free space. When I, when I have some stories like these,
sometimes like that, for probably two weeks, I went out of my home to, to my parents to live
on one of the rooms and to just stay there and think, right, try to focus and think what I'm
about, what am I about to do? And is it worth it? And how to package this story and who I'm
going to pitch it to and just dumb the whole fucking thing, you know. And then when I had
something together, we talked to Rolling Stone first. They said, they were interested, they
were like, yeah, fuck yes, we're definitely interested. They said, this is the god son of
El Chapo, speaking for the first time ever. So this is, this is massive during a hunt for
Los Chapitos, right? So this is a great exclusive shit. Then they took a fucking week or two weeks
to get back at me with, with, with something. I asked them like, okay, so what's the rate
and how many words and you know, like the details, usually you ask after a pitch,
uh, do you have deadline, whatever? They didn't answer for two full weeks. They, they got back
to me with a question. So like, how competitive this is. And I was like, dude, if you're asking
me that question, then I'm just probably going to waste my fucking exclusive story on a magazine
that it's just going to put it on the back end of a magazine and it's not going to package it well,
right? I was really disappointed at Rolling Stone because I, I have high regards for that
magazine. I mean, it's a great fucking magazine. They publish great fucking stories, but I didn't
feel comfortable after that. I was like, nah, they also have another huge story of mine that has been
sitting there for over a year. And it's a, it's a huge also exclusive shit. And they, this was an
assignment they did to me in February. And it's almost a fucking year. And I haven't heard back,
not even about a kill fee, not even about edits, nothing. They just let my stories sit there and
they stopped answering answering. They did a couple of, like three months ago, they did reach the
back. When, no, when I reached with that story, with that pitch, I also asked for that other story,
like, but what happened with that other story who were sitting on it? And they're like, no, no,
we're going to actually pay you better because this is going to be on the print new and the print
magazines. We're trying to find the right moment to publish it. But it's like, yeah, dude, for a
freelancer to sit on a fucking story for a year before, and then you get paid 30 days
net later, like after publishing it, you're, you're, you can kill journalists like that.
This is the problem with these legacy media outlets and these big publications.
You know, this is the reason for the uprise of independent journalism. That's why people like
you, everyone that's watching needs to go to Louise's channel, subscribe. You guys, you have
Substack, you have a YouTube channel. What else do you have? And it's my Instagram,
which is the Instagram. Did you have Patreon or anything? No, I don't. I'm trying to keep
everything on YouTube and Substack. YouTube and Substack. It'll obviously be linked below.
Yeah, dude. So yeah, I was really at the point because that can kill a fucking career. And I
was like, dude, why do I feel kind of like me street it by a magazine with these information,
with these fucking story I have in my head, right? I shouldn't feel like that. So I decided just to
move it and to pitch it to the guys who I work more regularly for. I actually have a retainer
with them with Vice News. Oh yeah. So I posted my storm to my editor or but at the moment,
vice was going through the whole bankruptcy thing. So they didn't have the capability to
move it into. I was like, these guys are not. When did they go bankrupt?
On January this year. Really? Can you find that, Steve? I didn't even hear about this.
Yeah. I mean, I think that's when the whole conversation started. But then probably like
three, four months ago, five months ago, they publicly went bankrupt. So it was on May.
May 19, 2023, Vice Media Group filed for Chapter 11, Bankruptcy Protection in the Southern
District of Texas. The company's bankruptcy cases are jointly administered at
Whoa. I remember like fucking eight years ago, seven years ago, you would see articles coming
out every month about how Vice is worth upwards of $2 billion. What does that say? Consortium
led by Fortress Investment Group for $350 million. Oh, Vice agreed to be acquired by.
According to Vice, the bankruptcy process will strengthen the company in position for...
It was basically acquired by the main moneylenders, right? They were the main investors. So they
basically just owned the company. They own it now, yeah. Because Rupert Murdoch and Disney,
they all had stocks. They all owned a significant portion of that. You actually hung out with
Shane Smith. Yeah, dude. I started writing for Vice News of Freelance 10 years ago.
So I mean, I meant... That's when it was really Vice.
Dude, yes. I mean, when they started, dude, it was wild. They were great at packaging shit and
doing stories that you can't publish anywhere. They were good, but they lacked the proper
journalistic ethics and, yeah, the proper journalistic view of it. Like what is news
and what is just not news and how to handle a news story, right? Ethically,
how to handle ethically and professionally. In the beginning, it wasn't news though. It was just
like they would go into fucking war zones or go into some crazy fucking place and just turn
their cameras on and start fucking talking to people. Yeah. And then they'd come up, like heavy
metal and Baghdad. The fucking documentary is insane. And Chirac, the noisy thing where they're
in Chicago and they're fucking in the inner cities of Chicago with all the musicians and shit. It's
fucking insane what they would do. That was the great fucking thing about Vice. That was news.
Because there was like on the reported stories, right? And we had meetings before reporting on
all that shit. There was an editorial thing behind it, but there were not like proper editors
and shit back then. When they come out with Vice news, they hired, for what I think, it's the best
of the best in the fucking industry, right? The best fucking editors, the best fucking directors,
a lot of like great, great fucking journalists, video journalists, and they had like a great
fucking team where they put together Vice news. Still to this day, dude, like, I mean, they've
been letting go hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of journalists in Vice news, sadly, great people.
Like my good friend, Keegan Hamilton, he's fucking a badass man. David Noriega, dude,
covering Latin America was like great. Emily Green, she is like the top fucking reporter
when it comes to immigration stories, solid fucking people. So they're letting everyone go,
right? And don't get me wrong, I mean, Vice still has like some like of the great fucking
editors and editorial directors within Vice that they're like holding positions
even through the whole fucking mass right now. So when I pitched this story,
Vice was going through the whole thing, right? So it was hard to think that they will have the mind
to take and properly wrap this story, right? I was like, I don't know, dude, like,
am I going to pitch this story and going to see this forever? Or I'm going to pitch this story
and then they're going to fucking kick me in the ass because they're bankrupt right now.
And I'm not going to even get paid. I'm just going to get fired. And then I'm going to feel
like shit afterwards. They're really honest people and I really appreciate that about Vice,
at least on my editorial team, like my editors and shit. So I spoke to my editor,
Deb Robinello about this. And she's like, dude, I mean, we would love to have your story and we're
probably going to try to make it work and look good. But it's your call, right? So I understand
where you're coming from and how you feel about Vice right now. So it's your call. I decided to
to make a statement and say, call Grillo and say like, hey, dude, why don't we fucking join forces
and publish this on our own, on our own fucking thing on your soft tech account, link to my soft
tech account. And we'll do an interview, like you interview me on my YouTube channel about like the
behind the scenes of the whole fucking thing of Damaso's story, right? And of course, it was like
extremely like cool with this, like fuck, yes, dude, I'm going to treat this with respect and
shit. Let's see if we make money out of it. I did. I mean, of course, nothing, nothing huge,
but some is it comparable to what you would get got paid by Rolling Stone or Vice or
it depends on the story. But let's say they're range for a simple 600 word tapping story, right?
Like one of these stories you can tap within an hour, you make a couple of calls to 600 words.
I'll get between 600 and 800 bucks per one of these stories, right? If it's a more complex,
complicated, whatever you can get 2000, 2500, probably not more than that. It's hard to make
more than that. Right. So it's kind of shitty, you know, it's really shitty actually. So yeah,
basically what I did is like, okay, so do you ask, you want to like, can we get something,
can I get something similar to this, the closest to what I get paid by the industry right now?
If we go there, they're like, I'm definitely going to try it. We're going to put half of
the fucking store in the paywall and let's fucking give it a shot. I did that, but I also
said like, you know what, this story needs to be written in Spanish for a Spanish publication
that was my home back then, which is the main or major investigative magazine,
journalism magazine in Mexico, which is Proceso. The director and founder of Proceso
is the only interview or my yosemba that has given to someone. He died Julio Shetter.
Um, we founded this magazine with that kind of like report strong fucking critical reporting,
right? And trusted enough by subcomandante Marcos, presidents, and El Mayo Sambada to give
interviews exclusively to Proceso. The story broke in 2013 about the CIA being involved was
my first cover on that magazine, right? It was the cover of that magazine. So they invited me to
collaborate a lot with Proceso magazine back then when I was like 10 years ago, probably 15 years
ago. So I was like, fuck it. You know what? I love that those dudes, they're having a bad time.
They're firing everyone. They're losing money by the minute. They're about to implode. So probably
it's going to be my last chance to feel again that I'm contributing to that fucking magazine,
you know? So I call the editor, he was super fucking excited. He was like, no fuck, dude,
wait, do you have proof of this? I was like, I have the audios, I have photos of exclusive photos,
I photo with them. And he was like, sadly, dude, I don't think we have the money to pay you for
something like this. We're going through shitty fucking years right now. We're actually about to
close the print magazine. And I was like, how much do you pay? And he's like, we can probably,
that's probably pay a thousand bucks. Let's fucking do it. Send me the money, send me a wife and
I'll tell you the story. And he's like, fuck yes, let's do it. And they treat the story with a lot
of respect as well as Grillo. With Grillo, I published the story in English and in Spanish
what with Proceso, right? Grillo treated the story with the utmost respect, you know? He really
packaged it well. He served as my editor for this one. So it was great working with Grillo. And I
was like, dude, we might be up to something here. Like we breaking exclusives in English and in
Spanish as well. Exclusive photos, exclusive footage. And then wrapping it with social, you
know, with YouTube interview, right? The scenes, not gonna shit. So that's kind of like what we're
trying to do right now. And N, after what got published, first, the first thing is I got a call
by Damaso's people. That was, dude, that's just cool stuff. Are you advertising the shit?
Yeah, I do it on the podcast. I get everyone to do it. It's like a become a gag now.
Oh, shit, dude. Every time.
So I get a call by his people telling me that... By whose people?
By Damaso's. Like the Lix people. Okay. Saying like, hey, dude, so we might have a
problem here. Damaso was not allowed to talk to the press, right? And he might get deported
because of this interview. And I was like, dude, but this is probably something you knew, right?
And he's like, no, I'll give it. I'm just letting you know what's...
This is after the article's out?
After the article's out. Because he wouldn't... I think probably Damaso kind of like knew
that he was gonna go big, but he probably didn't know that he was gonna be that big, right?
Right. Because, of course, it made the Mexican government to push back again for his extradition
back to Mexico, right? AKA the cartel. Exactly. I left a lot of the interview
out. A lot of the things he set out. Everything, I couldn't get approved off. And that wasn't first
things he actually lived through. I left it out. He talked a lot of shit about chapitos,
a lot of like shit about little chapo, personal shit. Really? Gracious stuff. But I, again,
I'm not in the middle of that war. That's not my war to fight, right? So why would I publish
shit like that? That it's unproved, right? So I left all that out on purpose. And I made a
disclaimer about the Javier Paldes version, right? I published the version that his colleagues and
family members set. His colleagues and family members, his wife and kids, they are sure it was
him, right? So I published that thing. I published like, okay, so his family... They're sure it was
sure it was Mini League, right? And the authorities, whatever. Although he says this.
Yeah, anyways. So that was that. And then after that,
those chapitos through one of their cousins, which is another wild fucking story,
reached out to me by another Guzman, a man who I can't say his name right now, probably in the
future, but he's supposed to be dead. He was... They allegedly killed him. He made the news,
like they killed him. They killed this guy. And he's like, no, I'm actually alive. I mean,
I'm injured, right? But I'm alive. And I was like, dude, I mean, again, the vetting process,
like turn on your camera, blah, blah, blah, blah. You did all this with him? All this with him.
And he was a Guzman. Yeah, he's the cousin of Los Chapitos. Wow. And he's like,
the first thing he told me was this. He's like, and I'm gonna lay down in Spanish and then I'm
gonna translate. Okay. So like, I know everyone has a price. What's your price to let me know
that we're about to have that fucking rat? Right? They want it. They want it to find
damazo. Dude, I saw that fucking message for days. Just not it was a message request. I didn't open
that. So I was just like, shit, what do I do? What do I do? What do I do? Is it real? It's not real?
Is this a threat? Or is this just like a friendly? How do you answer this fucking message? If I
answer, I might be untungled in something I don't want to be in the middle of.
Even if I had the location of damazo, I'm not sure I want to share that shit, right?
But I want to get killed for it also. The thing is, I don't have it. So what? I mean,
if I say I don't have, they're not gonna believe me, right? Because they might think,
of course you fucking have it, but I don't. Right. So I was like, and so I sat on it for days.
I had to go to Mexico to give a conference about what we face as journalists, right?
I'm trying to do more of that, more like public speaking for college. This was for a group of
attorneys from Canada that they were trying to find inspiration into how can they keep being
working in a world where there is a cancel, like strong cancel culture, right? Without being afraid
of speaking, of using their right to free speech, right? So I was like, dude, if I get threats,
if my life has been threatened several fucking times, you can do this too. You're only facing
consolation. You're not facing, you know, death threats. So that's basically the whole thing I
do when I go and talk public speaking. And then I went, they had a dinner, but I didn't
felt like going into a dinner. I was like, no, I need to go back to my room and think and see it
about like, what am I going to answer? To this DM that you have? Yeah, exactly. So I opened it
and I replied with a lot of respect. This was after of course, like betting this guy, right?
Like I asked him to move to a... Oh, so you... So I opened the... So he sent me this message
saying like, hey, Luis, I'm this and that. So I'm like, okay, send him my secured app
and then he moved there and then he sent that message. But it was a message request. So I was
just, okay, shit. If this is real, I might be into something in the middle of something that I don't
want to be. Anyways, at the end, I just replied, you know what, man? Like, I'm gonna give you the
respect I give to everyone. I'm gonna be honest with you. If I were to do my job for money,
I will have... I'm doing a shitty job, right? Because I'm not doing it for money. I'm a
broadcast journalist trying to make a living, enjoying what I do because I enjoy doing what I do.
Thanks for your offering. Even if I had, his location, I probably wouldn't share it
and I hope you understand it, right? But I understand that every story has two versions.
If you and your family have a different version, my ears are absolutely open to actually hear you
and tell your side of the story. And that's it. And he was really respectful. He was like,
dude, I just want to let you know that that fucking writer is a murderer as well and you're not
dealing with a good man as he's trying to clean up his name, whatever. And I completely understand
what you say. I'm not trying to clean up his name. So whenever you feel good to talk about it, like,
and me doing an interview with you, your story and your side of things, of your family, whatever,
if Ivan or Alfredo wants to talk, I'm all ears. And he's like, okay, let me let me get back to you
on that. And thanks for your honesty. And that was it. And that's where I got my Rolex and my
Bentley outside. I fucking knew it. Rolling on a fucking medley. That's why I had to pick you up
at the private airport. Yeah, exactly. Camp international. No fucking flying in. I didn't
want to fishy, man. Good Lord. Yeah, how much money do you think they have? I mean, they do have
more than enough money, you know, they have billions of dollars. Yeah, easily do. Like, I mean,
if you think about the fact that they're laundering money through major, major
artists in the US, you know that they have a lot of money. What do you mean laundering
money through major artists through events? I mean, I can say because I'm not the type that
says just things out of saying I'm working on something. Okay, they launder money. They launder
money through major artists like music, musical artists, musical artists, sportsmen, you know,
they do have a whole wagon of machinery on laundering money. And we're talking millions and
millions of dollars of money. Oh, so they're acting like record labels. And basically,
I'm guessing this is how they could do it, but they could act like a record label and they
could give a musician or a singer a ton of money in advance to produce a record and pay for their
tour, pay for everything, events, marketing, all this stuff. You could dump, you could dump millions
of dollars into that to build up an artist. And free cocaine. And free coke. And free coke. Yeah,
best quality. Whoa, that's a great fucking way to launder money. Yeah, dude. And that's just part
of it. So yeah, I mean, when you think about that, like, it's okay, so it's millions of fucking dollars.
It's not like you put $100,000 to produce something like that. Right. So yeah, that was that.
The conversation ended right there. And I'm still, you know, trying to see if there's something,
something else to be like, hopefully a good interview with one of these guys. I haven't
heard of them. Because after that, a lot of shit happened, right? Like, they extra died out of video.
Yeah. So last time you were here, we basically, I think it was right after you went and went
through a video's house after it was raided by the military, I believe. And it was all shot up,
looted, they stole all his watches, all of his clothing and everything. And it was, it was insane.
And he had still been in custody by the Mexican government when you were in his house. Yes.
But since then, I don't know how long ago, well, it was a couple of months ago, he got extra died.
Extra died, yes, extra three years. I mean, it was, it was, it was due, right?
And you met with his lawyer that day, you were at his house, right? Yes, yes, yes, yes. I met,
I met with the, with the two of his attorneys and his mom. They were pretty pissed, right?
About journalists being there, trying to go into that house. But anyways, I think I phase,
I phase a lot of like backlash, a lot of like shitty comments on that video I have on YouTube,
from a lot of like fanboys, right? That they feel they are part of whatever. And this is the fucking
fanboys of, of, of, of the chapel. And so like, oh, that was disrespectful. I hope you get, get
fucking pop for doing that. If you come into my house like that, I will definitely kill you, whatever.
And it's like, dude, this is a house of a criminal that was doing a lot of crazy fucking shit,
that he's behind bars. And this is, on my point of view, a public interest of what happened,
not only for the sake of what happened to that town, but probably for the sake of also what
did the military did during that operation that was illegal? Like they fucking looted this house?
So it's like, dude, I'm pretty sure that you fucking fanboys are the most
upset about this. And probably the family was like, okay, this is proven off as well,
that they fucking looted the fucking house and they shot a place where there were kids inside.
Right. Right. It's about the truth. I'm not siding with the Mexican military.
I'm not siding with the criminal. They showed, they pulled up and fucking
hummers and shit, shot up a whole town, killed innocent people.
Exactly, dude. I mean, wrongdoing by the Mexican government, wrongdoing by these curtail members.
In the fucking middle, it's a town of innocent people, old men, and two kids that are daughters
of a criminal, but they didn't willingly, you know, were there, right? They could probably
be killed. They could have been way more surgical, right? And doing that. Now, again,
this is a criminal, and that's the way he makes his money to buy these cars,
Rolex watches, whatever. That gives no reason for an authority to go and
fucking loot his house and stole everything, steal everything, right?
It's wrongdoing all over. It's wrongdoing all over, and that's my main fucking goal on what I do.
People say like, okay, you're siding with the Mexican government. And then people say,
okay, you're siding with fucking curtail. And when I have sources on both sides of the spectrum,
sometimes I get reached by elite fucking Mexican military, you know, that are my sources.
Like, dude, why are you siding with these fucking shit, shit people? And I'm like, what do you mean?
You're fucking story, man. It's making us look ugly. It's making us look like we don't have enough
power or brains to do an operation. So you're siding with these fucking rats. And I'm like,
dude, no, don't get me wrong. What your colleagues did was also wrong. And then I get calls by these
guys and like, hey, dude, why the fuck would you do that? Like, are you, I mean, I know you work
for the Mexican government or the US government and you are siding with them because that's what
the journalist does. And I'm like, fuck, no, dude, I'm not siding with anyone.
Who is saying this?
Cartel people, you know, some of my sources in Sinaloa.
You have people like high up Mexican military reached out to you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I have really strong sources also on the Mexican military, like.
Really? How high are we talking? How high up?
High up enough to let me know several hours before Obidi was extradited, that he was going to be
extradited. And that was secret even for them. But because they were there, they just tell,
they didn't tell them that it was Obidio, right? They tell them, hey, we're going to extradite
a person. I need you guys to show up this prison, blah, blah, blah, take out these guys,
boom, take him out within an hour. They went and they were like, oh, shit, the guy they're
going to fucking extradite his Obidio was mad. And one of them is my source, right?
Several of these guys are my sources. And so they, I heard rumors, I heard rumors that there was
movement from lower tier people in the military. It was like, hey, dude, there's an usual movement
on this prison. They're taking out someone. And I was like, hmm, let me ask these other guys who
are high up. Hey, dude, I'm hearing of movement on this prison. Do you know anything that's
happening? It's like, dude, yes, let me reach back to you in an hour. Okay, boom, they reached back.
So I like, okay, now that this person is in the air heading towards the US, I can tell you,
it's Obidio was mad. So boom, I tweeted it first, like, boom, Obidio was mad and extradited those
hours before it was like making headlines or whatever. And then when he arrived in the US,
I also have good sourcing in the US on law enforcement. And they send me the first picture
of Obidio with the orange jumpsuit, right? They, they, a DA, a former DA agent published on his
Twitter, the photo of Obidio sitting on the jet on his way to the US. And then a couple of hours
later, these other sources I have in the US, he sent me the photo of Obidio, his mugshot, basically,
right? He leaked his orange jumpsuit. You have it on the, you have the photos I sent you.
Oh, Stephen has it. On his orange jumpsuit. That one. Yes. I had to put a wiremark because
he went huge on Twitter. Look at the jaw on that guy. Yeah, I do it. The crimson chin.
And look at his size, dude. Like, I don't know if he's, there's a lot of people saying like he
wasn't scared, he's probably just dealing with drugs or whatever. He, he's an- He looks high on
coke. I mean, he is on anxiety medication. So I don't know what that is. He is? The depression
anxiety. He's, he's getting medicated for that. Where, where is he in the US? Chicago. Chicago
UMC. One of the worst. Not because of the Thai, Thai security, whatever, but because of the treatment
they get. He is on the 11th floor all by himself. And the water either comes out freezing cold in
Chicago during winter or hot enough to burn, to burn your skin. And he doesn't have any,
yeah, like some time, no windows. It's a shitty fucking place. It's a shitty fucking place.
So did you get the story from his lawyer on how they got to extradite him? Like it was,
was there any pushback from the Mexican government side to the US State Department
on the extradition? Or was this in, was the US and the Mexico and the Mexican government working
together to get him extradited, basically just fighting the lawyer? Yeah, exactly. The attorneys
had set a bunch of what we call in Mexico, embattles, right? Like legal resources to stop
his extradition. One after another, after another, after another. So legally, lawfully,
both governments will have to, will have to go and dismiss one by one of these legal
resources, right? It will take years, years, years, years. And still he will have a lot of
other resources to stay in Mexico. Both governments basically said, fuck the law,
let's get this fucker out of it. And they didn't, again, I'm not siding with anyone.
This is just the way things are. The Mexican and US governments broke the law in order to
extradite. He was illegally, unlawfully extradited to the US. He had resources and not resources in
place to stay in Mexico, to avoid extradition. You can't expedite an extradition of a Mexican like
that, especially when you have a lot of legal resources in place. The thing is the US legal,
whatever, agencies are pretty smart. So right now, even Ivan Archivaldo, he's not arrested,
but he has an extradition order in place, right? Who? The oldest of the chapitos, Ivan Archivaldo
Guzmán, he has an extradition order, even though he's not arrested. But that extradition order is
in place in the US. So when he gets arrested, that order enters before he can set up a legal
resource, right? That's what happened with the video. He had an extradition order since 2019
that was still in place, just got to be renewed every, I don't know, months or years, I can't
remember. But the US has just to ratify, renew the extradition request. Boom, boom, boom. So when
he gets arrested, even if he starts legal resources, they're like, hey, I have a legal resource. Yeah,
but the extradition is prior to that legal resource. He should still have a lot of like other legal
resources like he had. One of his legal resources was saying that that wasn't him. One of his legal
resources, he stood up before a judge in Mexico, a federal judge, to say. Ovidio? Yes, they asked
him directly. Are you Ovidio Guzmán? Yes. Are you Ovidio Guzmán López? Yes. Are you the person
on this photo? No. Are you the person of these address? No. Are you the son of Joaquín Guzmán
López? No. So you're not Ovidio? Yes. It was legal resource to say like, yes, I am Ovidio Guzmán
López. Yeah. I have no clue who Guzmán is. Joaquín El Chapo Guzmán, I have no clue who that is.
And I'm not the person you're looking for, right? That was a legal resource.
What is the government's, does the government, does the U.S. have a plan in place for all these
extradition? Why do they want to extradite these people to the U.S.? And why aren't they happy
with them just sitting in prison in Mexico? I think because first of all, the alleged
damage they've done to the U.S. by trafficking drugs and that the target country was the U.S.,
it was harmful for the U.S., right? Mexico is just a transition country when it comes to drug
trafficking charges, right? So that is why most of them are extradited into the U.S. If the traffic
or the crimes will be the other way around, they will have to be in Mexico first. For starters,
right? For starters, the crime is committed against the U.S. because the drugs are being
trafficked into the U.S., not trafficked into Mexico. Second of all, the fact that the Mexican
authorities didn't have any charges against most of them, they don't hold charges against
many of these guys because they haven't set up a proper paperwork, a proper investigation
by Mexican prosecutors, makes them basically to say, well, we don't have charges in Mexico.
We only have an extradition order to face justice in the U.S. But like our other friend of Plaga,
he had no charges in Mexico. El Nini had no charges in Mexico. All his charges are in the U.S.
But when you look for his criminal charges in Mexico, there is none, not a single one.
It's fucking wild. Where is El Nini right now? He is in Mexico City, sitting in a prison.
Does he have an extradition? He has an extradition order, yes. He's most definitely
going to be extradited as well, pretty soon. Dude, it's so bizarre. It's even just looking
at the war on drugs and what the plan was there. Extraditing these people that's crazy,
they don't understand what's going to happen when they get extradited. Or do they see that?
Look, these cartels are just going to be broken down into smaller factions and become more violent.
Exactly. Let's talk about the Sinaloa Cartel. Let's say they nav all the chapitos,
dismember the whole faction. It becomes a power vacuum.
It's a power vacuum. And not only that, who's going to be the next one up? Who's going to be
the next target? It's immediately and automatically El Mayu. He's the only one left on that faction,
on the Sinaloa Cartel. And he's the one that nobody talks about?
He's never been arrested. He's about 80 years old now. Diabetic. And he's out there.
All of his sons, but one, have been arrested in the US.
All of them except one. How many sons?
I think four.
And so the one son that is still living in Mexico is running the organization.
He's the only one. He's the only one still in the loose.
Shadow of his death is that there's only probably two available photos of him.
It's actually one and very old photo of him that was published by the DA on his warrant.
No one knows where he is. I mean, but he's basically he's handling the operation with his dad.
And didn't you break that story about him getting into how he got into the Sinaloa Cartel
with he was friends with somebody in the CIA or something, or he got married to a girl whose
brother was in the CIA? I did a story that is on my YouTube channel explaining the
probable possible connection with El Mayu, somebody in the CIA. His oldest sister
got married to this guy called, I should have forgot his name, but he's a Cuban.
And he started doing intelligence for the CIA during the Cuban Revolution.
So he got papers to be legal in the U.S. And when he traveled to the U.S.,
he started trafficking shit tons of drugs through Florida, actually. And then he moved
to Las Vegas, where he became even a bigger trafficker there. And then he got arrested twice
for drugs trafficking, because he was being just too flashy in Las Vegas, right?
And then he moved to LA. And in LA, he was like looking for a new source, someone who can source
him first weed and then cocaine. So he traveled to Sinaloa to meet with people sourcing, like say,
okay, I want to find who could sort of helping out source drugs to the U.S. And in the meantime,
he met Modesta Zambada, the oldest sister of El Mayu, and who I think, in my opinion, if you
ask me, she's the real deal behind the Sinaloa cartel. She's the real one behind the organization.
And no one talks about her, because he's a lady. And Mexico is so machista, dude. Like,
Mexico is like, no, there's no fucking way LA is going to be ahead of the cartel. Dude,
she's the oldest. She's the one who met this trafficker with ties to the CIA first.
El Mayu was like, what, 11, 12 years old? So we're going to believe that a 12-year-old kid
started this impurium. She started it, dude, along with this guy. And then they brought El Mayu.
And then El Mayu brought his brother, El Rey Zambada, who's free also right now. He was also
arrested, extradited, and he's a free man. He's now a corrido singer in the streets of LA.
All of the Zambadas, dude. But El Mayu, Modesta, and El Mayito Flaco, all of them,
are free men, have been arrested, complied, cooperated, and are free in the US.
Didn't The Sun write some crazy fucking book?
Yes.
You were telling me about it last time you were here. It's like at the cover of it. It's like, wow.
Yeah. It is a book written by journalist Anabel Hernandez. And it's called El Traidor,
The Traitor.
The Traitor.
And it's an autobiography, like laying out his whole fucking story of what we sent to Zambada.
I showed you photos of his arrest. It's like this handsome, you know, and I'll next publish
a couple of exclusive photos of Vicente that I caught.
Now, so El Nini is arrested. He's in Mexico City. And what about El Plaga?
And El Plaga. Well, Plaga is-
And for people who don't know who El Plaga is.
Yeah. So El Plaga is basically, he's not a head of the cartel. He's a henchman. He's basically
the equivalent of El Nini for a former Sinaloa cartel faction called Los Russos, the Russians.
And El Nini was basically in charge of the Sicarios, right?
He was in charge of the killers of the henchmen.
Exactly. Of the whole security for Los Chapitos, right? He was the security
head for Los Chapitos. And the Plaga is the security head for Los Russos.
Los Russos used to work for El Mayo Zambada not long ago. They were the most loyal people for
El Mayo, because El Russo is a dude that has been out for a while. Since he was like 17,
he's a fucking murderer and he knows how to traffic drugs, how to move around.
So El Mayo trusted him a lot. Trusted El Russo a lot. Short story long. I mean, long story short.
Long story short. El Russo got into an argument with Los Chapitos.
Everybody fucking hate Los Chapitos too. Every other single faction, they hate on them.
Why do you think that is?
Probably because they're the inheritance of El Chapo and the young…
Cocky motherfuckers.
Yeah. I mean, yeah. It's probably part of that.
Rich kids.
So this guy started fighting with Los Chapitos. El Mayo gets in the middle and says,
like, hey, dude, this is not good for any one of us. So he asks El Russo to go to the border
of Mexico with the U.S. to Mexicali, right? Right across Calexico, California.
He's like, okay, that's going to be your turf. That's been a turf of mine forever.
That's going to be your turf. Get there. Get your men over there.
Don't come back to Sinaloa so we can avoid infighting. So he did. He left.
He promised El Russo that he's going to take care of his properties, of his ranch,
his houses, all that stuff. So Los Chapitos are not going to touch your shit, right?
Because we're good now. So he's like, okay.
Then two years after, a year after, Los Chapitos went into one of his ranch
and started burning his properties, taking his cars, whatever.
So El Russo is like, no, you want to fuck it. I'm going to go back down there.
And they started this massive fighting that was all over the news. It lasted like…
They kept fighting for over, like, three weeks.
Massive shootouts, a lot of killings. Even the Mexican Marine was involved.
Allegedly, per what La Plaga told me, the Mexican Marine was operating
on behalf of Los Chapitos. That's what he says.
And so El Mayo kind of got angry at El Russo and said like,
dude, I asked you to never come back, especially not to fight.
He's like, yeah, but you've made me a promise and you couldn't comply.
So fuck it. I'm not going to leave my fucking ranch and properties to be taken over by these guys.
So El Mayo decided to not back him up anymore.
So he's like, okay, I'm not going to fight against you,
but I'm not going to back you up anymore. So we don't work together.
That happened probably last year. So he became an independent, right?
Formers in a local town. And they operate hugely in Mexicales and El Río Colorado
across California, part of Arizona. And yeah. And then El Plaga reached out.
I had reached out. He reached out.
The thing is El Plaga has a huge following on Instagram.
He has this massive account where he posts a lot of like his Rolex watch.
Do you know his username? We could pull it up.
I don't want to publicize this, you know, because I mean,
We don't want to give him any a clout.
Yeah, exactly. They all are all up for it, right?
They love the attention.
They will fucking love it. And I'm not going to give it up.
So anyways, he has this huge following on Instagram.
He posts his luxury cars, watches, traveling guns.
He even posted another narco monkey, you know, he had a score.
He had a score and a narco monkey on top of it.
So like, oh yeah, I saw a photo. I saw that photo in the in the article, right?
So I reached out like two years ago to him to see if he wanted to give me an interview
because I was about to go to Mexicalia now, the area.
He never applied. And then probably a month after the interview with Damoso came out,
he reached out. And he's like, hey, what's up?
And I'm like, boom, again, secure app, reach out to me on this one.
So he reached out, betted him, he has some camera, I asked him for his ID,
show his ID, who's driving a pickup truck and he kind of like stops in the middle of the night.
How old is this guy?
Dude, he's like 24, 26, like he's a young man and he's the head of a huge army.
So we talked about a lot of like chapitos.
He asked me like, hey, dude, did you really meet with Damoso?
And I was like, yeah, dude, yeah, yeah.
And he's like, well, I don't like those kind of guys, but an enemy of my enemy is my friend.
So like, okay, it's like, can I get a hold of him?
And like, dude, I don't have any contact and way to contact him.
He contacted me and then lost connection with him, right?
I don't have any means to get back to him.
So he's like, okay, dude, so all good.
So what's up?
And I'm like, dude, can you give me a proper interview?
He's like, no, let's do it.
In person?
I wanted to be in person, but it's like, dude, I can't promise you that I'm going to be around
because my boss, he calls el jefe R, el ruso, he moves me around a lot.
So I can't promise you that I can be, you know, I was like, okay, so let's do a video call.
An interview.
And if eventually you have the time, I'll travel and meet you in person.
And like by any means.
So he laid out all this story about the fight in fighting with those chapitos del ruso.
He told me about, he was, two years ago, he was arrested because he,
he got into a gunfight with Mexican state police officers and they killed one of his henchmen
when it was his right hand, el tío or something like that.
Like they killed him and they arrested him and there's this mugshot that you have also
on the files where he's, that's his Mexican mugshot and he's all beaten up with a,
with a, you can see.
That's a blogger?
Yeah, that's a blogger.
Look at that haircut.
Yeah, dude.
The cop.
Can you punch in on that a little bit, Steve?
And you have his mouth all.
Oh shit, he got beat up, huh?
Really beat up, dude.
And his nose all broke.
Look at that Louis Vuitton jacket.
He was, he told me that they were partying at a club in Mexicali and then they,
they went out of the club like at seven in the morning.
They were driving back to his whatever and they got stopped by state police officers
and he's like, his friend was like, don't fucking stop dude, fuck him.
He's like, no, dude, I don't want to start anything.
I mean, but he's like, but why are they stopping us if they know who you are and who we work for?
And he's like, I don't know, let's just stop and see what's up.
Yeah.
So he's like, when I pull over, this guy, El Tío, whatever,
jumps out of the vehicle with his fucking gun and starts shooting at the police.
And then these guys start shooting as well.
And there's a couple of killings.
And then they killed El Tío.
He tried to run, got arrested, got beat up.
And allegedly he was moved to a maximum security prison and whatever.
But when he called me, I was like, dude,
what are you supposed to be behind bars?
I was like, dude, I was free to the three days after.
Like El Que Ferre negotiated for me and they let me out.
And I'm like, dude, are you fucking sure?
Yeah, a hundred percent, whatever.
I bet at that info, also through other sources and other means,
and he was fucking out.
He was out.
And I was like, okay, so these guys really out.
So when I published this story, I faced hard pushback by Mexican government
saying, no, he is behind bars.
The chief of police of Baja California, she told me like,
I personally put him on a plane and send him out.
She told you this?
I put him out to Oaxaca.
So he's behind bars.
I know for sure.
And I'm like, well, check again, because he's out.
I just facetime to be driving his truck down the street.
I don't know who you talk to, but he's behind bars.
And that's for sure.
So then he had to show up for a hearing.
He didn't show up.
And the federal church declared non-present.
They couldn't find him.
And I was like, of course, they couldn't fucking find him because he's out.
Right.
That's proof that he's out.
And they're like, no.
And then they put out a presser saying that my story was bullshit.
And then they were going to publish his photo behind bars.
So now we have him, and we're going to publish his photo.
Did they publish it?
Of course not, didn't.
They haven't said anything after that.
They just didn't want to be left like fucking idiots.
So he's just like Caro Quintero after he got arrested.
He's like, he fuckers.
I'll be fucking out of here in 24 hours.
And he's out.
He's out, dude.
And there is a search website where you can search for people arrested.
So when you look for a nini, it says where he was arrested, by who,
at what time, and who is responsible for his arrest, whatever.
Where is he right now?
Right.
And Obedio as well.
For this guy, it only says arrested, no time, no place, no agency responsible for his arrest,
nowhere to be found.
He's not in the system.
Why do you think he was able to get out, but not El Nini?
Aren't they kind of like the same, don't they have the same kind of power?
In their organization, they have the kind of like same power,
but their organizations are definitely not at the same level.
No.
The chapitos faction, I mean,
los rusos are by far not even close to what los chapitos are right now.
Right.
So you would think El Nini would be able to get out easier than him, right?
Not really.
Because when you are requested, when you are looked after, the U.S. government,
especially for those charters.
I see what you're saying, right?
It's too hot.
Yeah.
They arrested another guy.
They don't have as much heat on them as they'll chapitos do.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah, dude, that was another cool interview.
Published again with Guerrillo, with Ion Guerrillo, a crash out.
It's crazy the mindset of kids like this, this 24-year-old kid,
and he thinks it's cool to be called the plague.
Dude, yes.
I mean, this is the thing.
On the interview, I asked him like, why did they call you,
why do they call you the plague?
La plaga, el plaga.
And he's like, because I leave no one alive, like a plague.
I kill everyone.
When I go into a fight, there's no one left alive.
And that's why I got the trust of my F.R.
because he knows that I don't back up and I kill.
And I'm, yeah.
So I was like, shit, dude.
And I was like, what made you interested in this shit?
And he's like, the narco corridos, too.
Like there's Mexican corridos.
This is like, when I was growing up, there was this group,
the most elite Sicario group for El Mayo Sambala, Los Antrax.
Los what?
Antrax.
Los anthrax.
Like the anthrax.
They were huge, dude.
I mean, El Chino anthrax has this miracle story
because he was arrested in whole, in Netherlands
when he was arrested for being part of the anthrax, right?
He was putting jail in the U.S., whatever, before that.
He was the first, one of the first Sicarios
that was super flashy and huge on socials, right?
He was post watches, lambos, whatever.
He even posted a photo with Paris Hilton.
There's a photo of Paris Hilton with El Chino anthrax,
the head of Sicarios for El Mayo Sambala.
Like, he was huge.
And he was arrested.
He started cooperating.
He was in a halfway house, and then he vanished.
And then his body appeared in shopping to pieces in Sialoa.
Some say he was kidnapped by the same organization.
Some others say he escaped, went back,
El Mayo said, like, now you're a snitch, cut him into pieces.
So that was the story of, so these anthrax group,
because they were fucking elite and flashy as fuck,
a lot of people started, like, making corridos about them.
So El Plaga, currentized by the corridos.
He was like, dude, I want to be an anthrax.
So he met someone in Tijuana, because this guy's from Tijuana.
He met someone in Tijuana that had connections in Sinaloa.
He went to travel to Sinaloa, introduced himself to these guys,
to one of these Sinaloa cartel members.
That's where he met El Nini.
They were friends before, because they were starting together,
trying to be henchmen, you know?
Oh, wow.
And this guy is another, like, big player in the Sinaloa cartel.
Told him, like, you know what?
You're not going to make a lot of money with the anthrax.
I mean, they have respect, but they don't make a lot of money.
You're from Tijuana, dude.
I know a couple of guys that work for us in Tijuana.
La Rana and Aquiles, two brothers, working for Mario Zambada right there.
Go out with them, work for them.
And that's where you're going to make money.
And he's like, fuck yes.
He introduced me to those guys.
I stayed loyal to them.
And I started making shit tons of fucking money
by helping trafficking drugs and being part of their security team.
Started growing up.
El Nini started growing up with those chapitos.
And then he went to work for El Ruso, right?
Because El Ruso called for backup to Aquiles in La Rana.
He said, like, hey, I'm going to go fight back my turf in Sinaloa.
He went with them.
El Ruso is like, hey, come work with me.
And then El Nini and him started like fighting.
So, like, this culture of these corrilos, like, these corrilos,
they're basically like songs, right?
They're like famous songs about legendary drug traffickers,
dead or alive, right?
So, like, there's this culture of the allure
the allure of being this big cartel member
or this person with power in Mexico,
driving these big lifted trucks, driving Lambos, having guns,
and they market it almost to the youth of Mexico.
They're really young kids.
It's like, wow, look at these people.
They have this power.
They have these great cars.
And then the barrier to entry is, like, you have to become a killer.
Like, you have a young 12, 13, 14-year-old.
Like, if you want to be in the cartel,
you have to show us that you can kill.
Is that sort of, like, how they bring them in?
He don't want, like...
I didn't want to believe that the music has the power
to bring someone to try to be part of the truck.
I felt like it was almost like when the whole Columbine
massively happened and everyone...
They'd blame it on Marilyn Manson.
Marilyn Manson.
I was like, dude, that's fucking dumb.
Which it is.
God, dude, that's so ridiculous.
The story of El Plaga, particularly in Mexico,
when Narco Corridos kind of tells me otherwise, right?
Because he got enticed by the music, by the anthrax.
He's like, I want to be one of those fucking guys.
And he even uses a name that has to do with a viral infection,
right? The anthrax and Plaga play.
So a lot of these kids, they work for that.
It's not even money.
It's not even power.
It's for being famed and having their own corridos.
And look at what Peso Pluma is doing right now.
No one really knew El Nini, right?
Until Peso Pluma started singing about him.
Everybody wants to be El Nini now.
If you go into my Instagram account,
I have a photo of his arrest and the comments.
It's like, free El Nini.
Yeah, man, El Nini's the real dude and blah, blah, blah.
Everybody's super excited about that, man.
And they're like, bouching for him.
Yeah, but like the difference between those guys
and the Columbine shooters, there's a stark difference.
These guys are trying to make a name for themselves.
They want fame. They want money.
They want a life. They're coming from nothing.
Yeah, exactly. They're coming from poverty.
Definitely, yeah.
These shooters at these schools, like Columbine or whatever,
these guys were complete antisocial, had no friends.
Who knows what kind of like, I don't know if they were on
depressants or whatever.
And these religious fanatics want to come after them,
blaming that Marilyn Manson is the Antichrist,
they listen to these goth music.
These guys knew they were going to die.
Exactly, yeah.
They was a suicide.
Absolutely, yeah. Not saying it was, it is the same at all.
It's absolutely different, different motivations,
different reasons.
And Marilyn Manson's interview with the guy who made
Columbine, the bowling for Columbine, Dr. Michael Moore,
he asked him, asked Marilyn Manson, he goes,
if you could talk to these kids,
if you could say one thing to these two guys
who killed everybody, what would you say to them?
And Marilyn Manson's response was,
I wouldn't say a word to them.
He's like, I would ask them questions.
And that's what nobody did.
Exactly. So basically saying like,
these kids were unheard for most part of his life.
Right. They were not hurt.
Yeah, they had no one to talk to.
That's probably the same shit.
I mean, I don't know, dude, but probably a kid,
because again, these whole story about these kids
not having a chance and being impoverished and saying,
like, this is the only way they could, you know,
that probably happened with a different generation
that happened with El Chapo, with El Mayo,
that they grew up on extreme poverty in the woods, whatever.
And El Chapo started by killing people, right?
He was originally like a fucking Sicari.
Yeah. Yeah.
But these guys, these are city kids.
They're not rich, right?
But they're middle class.
They live well.
They can go to school like a nini, a plaga.
These kids are not like, that was my only option.
They actually were looking for that option.
They were looking for that, right?
And it's against like, why? Why?
Probably because how we all put these guys
on a fucking pedestal, right?
We talk about these guys like they're major players.
We kind of like look up for them and say, like, oh, these guys,
you know, and that is exactly why I try to interview
all these people because I'm like, dude,
I want to bring him down to humans, right?
To what they face, to what they are.
Because otherwise, you only listen to the corridos about them.
Right.
And what do the corridos of El Plaga say?
He's a badass killer.
He's a good man.
He has a good heart, but he takes no shit.
That's why he kills a lot of men.
And if you cross his path,
he's going to chop your fucking head, whatever makes him look
like this bravado macho man that is cool and is fine.
But if you cross my way, I'm not going to have mercy.
And it's like, dude, don't these people are bad in the fucking head, right?
They're fucking killers.
They don't give a shit.
They move fucking drugs.
They, you know, they're doing a lot of like crimes
that are affecting us, all of us.
And they face ugly lives.
They face living like rats.
They face living without, like these dudes.
Like I asked him, like, why will you be open
to share a lot of shit on your Instagram?
And he told me, like, well, I don't share the beheadings I do.
I don't share like that kind of stuff.
That's going to get me in trouble.
What I share is my luxury life, right?
My watches, whatever.
Because that's why I do these four, right?
For money.
And if I can show it, then what's the, what's goal?
That lets you understand.
He's like, okay, so these dude beheads people.
He chops people's heads off, but he doesn't show that.
What he shows is his luxury life.
And he does that because on his head, he's doing what he does
for the money to show, right?
So if he can't show, then there is no sense in what he's doing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like, it's making a name for themselves
and like sort of symbolic immortality.
Trying to, you know, they get Coretto's made after them
and they live on beyond.
Like if they did tomorrow, there's going to be a Coretto
or, you know, some of these graveyards
that have like these crazy memorials to these guys.
People go there and party and it's insane.
Yeah, dude.
I mean, it's wild how they, how they leave.
And I don't know what's going to happen
without planning guys who we're going to get behind
because after the interview came out,
also it went huge in Mexico
because the Mexican government actually kind of pushed back
so that made this story even amplified more.
Yeah.
And he closed his Instagram for a couple of weeks or months.
You recently opened it back up, but he caught all connections,
you know, so.
One of your stories that you've most recently done
that terrifies me the most
is the story of this Titan software.
Yes.
How did you first come to learn about this software
and explain what it is?
Again, it was, it was an anonymous tip first.
One of the source reached out again on Instagram.
He said like,
Hey dude, you need to know about these software
that Mexican and Cortels are using.
And I'm only sharing this with you
because I think you are the one to publish this story,
whatever, to find out more about it.
And I can say a lot of stuff about these guys,
so for his security, right?
But basically Titan, what this is,
is a Mexican development software
that is like a mega database for a lot of Mexican databases,
right?
It gets Mexican border ID database,
phone companies, different mobile and land phone companies,
databases, banks, most of the banks, probably all of them,
credit scores, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera,
criminal backgrounds, et cetera,
and also has the capability to live track you.
And it is as easy as to enter a full name
or what we call in Mexico an RFC,
which is your basic tax ID, or a phone number.
And by doing that, well,
this source offered me a login to go in and try the platform.
It was mind blowing how fucking easy it is to just enter.
I asked permission to a friend of mine in Mexico,
if I could enter his name or phone number to track it, right?
Enter his info, and it gave me several sheets of personal data,
like his most recent calls,
like a list of logs.
And then these database makes this call crossing
to try to identify how close the people he's talking to are to him.
Like you can tell probably that he called his mom,
or he calls, there are like a hundred calls
in the last month to this number, right?
So the circle is-
Who he talks to the most.
Exactly, who talks to the most and whatever,
like most recent calls, whatever.
It gives you a sheet about his credit score,
security background check, his license plates,
the cars he owns, addresses, different addresses through the years,
Mexican border ID, license, what else?
It was like a bunch of shit, dude, like his different phone numbers.
And a list of the last hour location every 15 minutes,
a pinpoint, where every 15 minutes it was for the last hour,
or the last two hours.
So you can track where he was,
where he's been the last 15, 15 per 15 minutes
dropping point, like pop, pop, pop on a map.
And then you can access this live location.
What this live location uses,
it's a product, a protocol called SS7,
which is a, which is a mobile protocol used by companies,
mobile companies all over the world.
So they can communicate between each other.
Without this protocol, if I have Verizon, you have AT&T,
we wouldn't be able to communicate with each other.
That's why you can communicate with people in China
or Mexico or whatever.
But these protocols been widely criticized for a while
because of its vulnerabilities.
It's super easy to access this protocol
without any malware or whatever.
And Mexico a few years back made this anti-monopoly law that
basically bans a single mobile phone company
to own the whole registry or the biggest spectrum
for the use of mobile technology,
for mobile communication waves.
And what this does is that you and I can set up
a mobile company in Mexico,
we can show up with paperwork and say like,
we want to start our own Danny Jones mobile phone company.
It's super easy to get approved
and you will have to pay the rent for access to this protocol.
You pay that to the biggest companies
because it's cheaper than to get one of your own protocol.
It's like, no, okay.
Pay for a license.
Yeah, you pay for the license that AT&T is using
and you can use that for your own small company.
So a lot of criminals and a lot of like these
security software shady companies
are accessing this SS7 protocol.
And through that SS7 protocol,
they can pinpoint where you're at live
without even sending you a malware or whatever.
It's just legal because that's access to a protocol
that every legal mobile phone company has.
And that's where they're accessing your shit
and live tracking you all over the world.
On my article, my story on Vice News,
for legal reasons, I didn't want to face
the US government asking questions, whatever.
It was just too messy to say that it works all over the world.
So I proved that in Mexico,
but I proved on my own devices in the US, in Texas,
and it worked because it works through SS7.
Or it also works through a different way of doing things
which is basically the GPS,
which is the triangle between the nearest phone and text.
Kind of like triangles at three points your location.
So they can take this software,
enter your name or your phone number
or your social security number,
and they can pinpoint where you are
anywhere in the fucking world.
Find your credit score, find your recent call list,
read your text messages, I'm assuming.
I didn't access the...
Okay, no text messages.
No, I don't think so.
Or probably I didn't...
Because I didn't work on the platform enough,
like I just went through there.
Because it gives you a huge document
with a lot of different pages
and a lot of like excels and maps and...
Then you have to go and interpret out what is everything.
Right.
I sent you a video,
I think you can put up a video of how the screener goes,
how does it looks like.
But dude, it's so fucking easy.
And the most terrifying thing,
it's like a lot of people is going to say like,
well, there was Pegasus right back then.
It's no need.
Pegasus.
Pegasus, yes.
This has been happening for a while.
Developed by the Israeli cyber...
It was a cyber arms, basically weapon,
you could call it,
but it was marketed by the Israelis
as a tool to weed out criminals and terrorists.
Obviously it was not used by that.
It was used by governments to weed out dissidents
or journalists.
Yeah.
So the thing is Pegasus,
look at all the information you have about Pegasus,
right?
Because it's available.
It's information easily available.
Well, that's kind of one of the sheets it sends out.
Okay.
So this is the information that you get?
Yeah.
That's a brief...
I wouldn't zoom on any phone in case there is like,
but probably most of the four numbers are not working anymore.
So it's all good.
Okay.
Yeah, that's how it looks.
Gives you a lot of fucking info, dude.
Gives you a lot of stuff.
So now Pegasus, the thing is,
it was developed by a proper known company,
developing software and acquired by official means
by the governments, right?
It wasn't acquired under the table.
It was officially acquired by governments.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's like 200 grand.
You can pay for a license for Pegasus.
They have the zero day exploit with that.
So like, you don't need to click on a link.
You can just basically send it to somebody
and it automatically infects their phone.
They don't need to click shit.
Definitely more aggressive.
Definitely more access.
I mean, it gives you more access to a device, right?
Because you can turn on and off cameras,
microphones, whatever.
This shit is nothing like that.
Right.
But the thing I find more dangerous about this thing is
that it is not acquired officially by governments.
This is highly overlooked, highly shady.
The login, there's no information who's behind this shit.
You don't know because it's a single developer in Mexico
that gets a hand up.
People say like, okay, but the Mexican Ine,
the Mexican border ID, they have a lot of like firewalls.
So it's almost impossible to access that shit
without a strong malware.
Well, the thing is you don't need it
because your malware is corruption, right?
Right.
You pay someone in to let, to give you the whole access
to an updated database of that shit.
Same with phone companies, banks, blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's how this shit is working.
Now, this is, I spoke to the developer and he said,
my intention to this was to provide a Mexican government
all over the world access to track criminals.
But I know that it's been used by having a bad use, whatever.
And this is not acquired on official capability, right?
It's been acquired by a single state commander that says,
okay, the license is super cheap.
It's about a hundred thousand bucks.
Give me 500 licenses.
I'll pay it on my own pocket and I'll give access to my agents.
So we can work this properly, this platform,
but I'll sub-rent it.
I'm going to rent this out to criminals as well,
to people on the Cartel Jalisco, Cartel de Sinaloa.
So they track rivals or they're their citizens.
And that's how this shit is working.
That's how they find people that they want to disappear,
to kidnap, to kill.
They use this kind of-
And people within the Mexican law enforcement or military
are knowingly licensing this software out to the cartels.
This is the biggest proof that Mexico is a fucking narco state.
They're working side by side.
You only have access to this kind of shit by invitation to a WhatsApp group.
These WhatsApp group admins are either four or five different admins.
It's a mix between state police commanders and cartel members,
high-ranking cartel members.
This is the council that'll give you access to these WhatsApp group,
where you have access to these technology, to signal blockers,
to exotic animals, to a bunch of shit.
Like passport, I'll show you photos of fake US passports,
but they're like-
Because they're coming out of the consulate.
A lot of crazy shit, dude.
Like if you need a different identity in Mexico,
you can easily get it, easily.
It's wild, dude.
It's fucking wild.
Yeah, that's what that dude was telling me.
That guy you introduced me to who came in here.
Yeah, Fernando.
Fernando Puente.
He was telling me how when he was a coyote,
they basically would bring you into a house.
They would have a whole change of clothes for you
and make you look like a fucking worker.
Yeah.
They'd create you a brand new passport and get you across the border.
Yeah, dude.
I mean, they're even selling.
Yo, Steve, pull up that tweet I sent you earlier.
They're even selling-
What is this, bro?
This is bombs that they hang into drones.
One of the selling points is it has a hanger for your drone,
so you can drop it.
Oh, my God.
So the DJI, little consumer drones that you buy on Amazon
and Best Buy, they can carry these things,
and they just drop them.
And they just drop them.
A drone bomb?
Yeah, dude.
This is the kind of shit they're selling on these WhatsApp groups.
Bombs, dude.
22,000 pesos, which is $1,000.
And who is getting these bombs?
This console in these WhatsApp groups.
Well, these bombs-
So the Mexican military is getting them
and selling them on the black market to the cartels.
Yes, exactly.
Yes.
These kind of like high-level weapons.
It's a scar.
People know about guns.
A scar is pretty expensive.
A scar, yeah.
And this is a scar all covered in gold.
With a scope and a lot of-
Gold magazine, gold handle, gold butt, barrel.
It's ridiculous, I mean, but-
What was that thing you were showing us earlier
with that fucking thing that looked like a-
A laser gun?
The laser gun.
Oh, well, that gun, that's a single signal jammer.
A signal jammer.
They use that against their own technology, right?
Because if the Jalisco Gertel has-
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, if the Jalisco Gertel has drones,
bombing, you know, with bombs,
well, you need protection against that.
You also need protection against the government drones
that are looking over your turf.
So they will, on the same group,
they will sell these kind of shit so you can block.
And how does this thing right here work?
It's basically a shotgun that blocks the signal of your drone.
So if you have a drone that is communicating through GPS
to find its way, whatever, as soon as you fire this shit,
it blocks the signal of that,
of that basically shuts off your drone.
So it drops.
Oh my God, bro.
Dude, it's so wild that a lot of police,
they don't even know that this is happening on these WhatsApp groups.
Because this world is so small,
the criminal world is so small,
that one time I was at a bar with one of my sources.
He works for the Mexican military.
So I was at a bar with them,
and we're talking these and that.
And on the WhatsApp group I had access back then,
I'm not part of the WhatsApp group anymore,
but someone posted a pair of binoculars,
but they look like super high-tech binoculars,
not your regular night-beaching shit.
They look like really something,
and they were really expensive.
They were selling those shit for 200,000 pesos,
which is like 10 grand.
And I was like, dude, this looks like something really geared up,
not your regular binoculars.
So I showed him to him.
So I was like, do you have any clue what this is?
Like, what kind of binoculars are these?
He looks at it, and he goes pale.
He's like, where do you get this?
And I'm like, Soros is telling them,
dude, no, no, no, can I use your phone, please?
And I'm like, no, no, no, no, wait, wait, wait, what happened?
He's like, no, just send me a photo,
like a screenshot of that shit.
And I was like, all right, yeah, by all means.
What happened?
He's like, just give me a second, picks up his phone,
he calls someone, it's like, hey,
remember that fucking pair of binoculars?
You bought from him?
Well, guess where they are?
And then he's like, exactly, dude,
he's with a Jalisco hotel.
Why?
Why are these binoculars in hands of the Jalisco?
He's like, okay, just think about that.
Boom, he hangs his phone.
He's like, dude, I sold this pair of binoculars.
This exact pic is like, I'm pretty sure that you zoom in.
Yeah, they have a mark where I raise the seat, whatever,
to a guy who works on the military as well.
And turns out he's selling this shit to the Jalisco.
So I was like, okay, dude, sorry about that.
Yeah, dude, like this world is,
so they're sourcing from official, unofficial military police,
U.S. military, they're sourcing from everywhere
and they have access to a lot of fucking shit, dude.
This was a major, major leak,
the source granted me access to.
He granted me access to, look at this shit.
Well, these are all IDs and passports.
Yeah, U.S., permanent resident cards and passports.
They are not fake.
They have all the ceilings, all the markings,
because they're coming out of properly from the U.S.,
from a U.S. consulate in Mexico.
How much money, what percentage of the revenue
that these cartels are bringing in is from smuggling people over the border?
Right now, dude, that is huge money.
That is huge money.
These smugglers in Ciudad Juarez,
he recently told me for a story
that they are making more money from smuggling people
than from smuggling coke.
So he's like, dude, we're kind of dropping that.
We're now huge on the human smuggling side of it,
because for a single male just to get him across the border,
literally over and down the wall,
they're charging $1,800 U.S. dollars for a single man.
If you're moving a whole family and they ask you to go to,
I don't know, New York, then you arrange the whole fucking thing from-
They'll even drive you into fucking New York?
Yeah, dude, I mean, they get you passed through checkpoints,
and then they'd say you end up on a bus, right?
Because then there's no more checkpoints.
After 20 miles from the border, there are no more checkpoints.
There's only one, like there are checkpoints in a circular round,
20 miles from the border, and they get passed through that
using different tricks and different-
Play this video, Steve.
This video is wild.
I just saw this on Twitter this morning.
It looks like these guys are somehow like
they're tying this shit around those-
Oh, that's clever.
And they're making them-
What is it?
They're widening the bars or breaking them.
They're cutting-
They're cutting off the-
They're sawing those bars off.
Oh.
You'll see it.
Here it is.
Is this the Trump wall?
Yeah.
They're just waving at the cameraman.
Yeah, they're a bit of a-
They're laughing-
Look at them.
That dude is recording.
It's a joke.
They don't give a shit, man.
Look at this.
And again, are they really a threat?
I mean, look at these kids and this woman.
They're not the fucking threat, man.
They are not.
These guys are making money.
So these guys are coyotes?
These guys are coyotes, yeah.
That's exactly what happens with most of the deterrence policies.
How recent was this?
Can you look at the tweet and see when this was or where this was?
Like, where specifically on the border was this?
December 11th.
This was posted-
Okay, this was just posted a week ago.
Just late-
The cartels are on the border now.
Yeah.
And it's pretty obvious.
I mean, what was happening before the whole deterrence, right?
Nothing, really.
I mean, a lot of Mexicans were coming in and back out.
They were, like, getting across to work and then back to Mexico and then back the next day.
But when you put in place the deterrence policies, when you put crocodiles and,
you know, crazy shit, cartels are going to bank on that shit.
They're going to make money on it.
They're going to make a lot of fucking money on it.
And you'll make them powerful by trying to stop migrants from reaching the border,
not having a system in place, you're making them reach.
If the borders were open, as people say, like, they're wide open,
well, who's going to charge for a wide open border, right?
No one will be making money.
You will phase a lot of, like, a mess of migrants coming over illegally to the U.S., right?
That's a different thing.
But no one will be making money.
No criminal organization will be banking on it.
But when you close the borders,
when you really close the borders and make it harder and harder and push people to remote places
in the desert, through the sea, across a huge wall, under tunnels,
that's where they're going to cash in.
And they're going to become more and more and more powerful because of the money they are massing.
The harder it is to do it, the more money they can make.
Absolutely, dude.
And when you can just shove a couple kilos in a backpack and walk across the border legally,
like, it's not that hard to do.
Again, the migrants are not breaking drugs.
The cartels don't work like that.
They don't put two eggs in the same basket.
If you go into CVP, and I really ask all the people to do that because it's open information,
go to cvp.gov and look for the stats, statistics on seashores, right?
How much drug is being seized through ports of entry and in between the ports of entry.
I mean, through the desert, through the wall, whatever.
99.8% is getting seized on ports of entry.
On proper ports of entry.
Like shipping ports?
Not like the regular bridges.
Oh, oh, oh, gosh, yeah.
Vehicles, commercial, personal vehicles, whatever, like what we use, like 99.8.
Very little drugs are being smuggled in between walls because it's riskier and you don't need that
shit.
Right.
What you need is a full border packed, like when the CVP officers are taking a long time
checking on you and that's making a huge fucking line on the bridge.
That's when they're like, so these holiday seasons, like December, a lot of Mexicans go to the U.S.
to buy gifts for Christmas, right?
So the border waiting times are like fucking three, four, five hours.
You have to stand in line to get across into the U.S. and shit.
That's when they guys take advantage of that shit.
There's a lot of cars.
We have more chances of pulling one car packed with fentanyl in 100,000 cars, you know?
Fernanda was telling me that there was a system in place.
I'm not sure if it's still in place where people, citizens of Tijuana actually have,
there's programs where they can cross the border every day to go to work in the U.S.
in San Diego or somewhere.
Yeah, it's a border crossing corridor.
Is that still in place?
Yeah, that's still in place.
Again, it's for border crosses, right?
You're perfectly legal to go back and forth.
You're a Mexican citizen, but you work in the U.S.
You go back and forth.
I heard a guy, this guy, John Mirsheimer was doing a podcast on Alex Friedman,
and they were talking about immigration.
Basically, John Mirsheimer was making the point that the two main things for a country
to become powerful are there's two proxies.
One is GDP, and the second one is population, and he was making the argument that people
in the U.S., Americans, young Americans, they aren't making babies like they used to.
And he's saying that the immigration of people from South America and Mexico is a good thing,
because they're still making babies and they're still crossing the U.S.
We want more people.
More people is good, and more people equals a higher GDP.
Definitely. If you actually have a program to make these people enter the workforce legally,
if you make these people enter the workforce, then yeah, you have a lot of people working,
making money, moving money, and you have a larger population.
When you remove the whole race about it, if you want a country just of white people,
and you don't take into account immigrants and say like, well, they don't count.
Let's just count for the white people, because this is America, whatever.
That doesn't work. If you take into account immigrants, say like, okay, let's make these
people work and make them get into the workforce, then you definitely have a stronger workforce.
Well-paid, paying taxes, buying shed, buying houses, all this stuff.
Well, the crazy thing is they don't punish. I don't know exactly what the system is,
but the people who run big companies that hire these illegal immigrants,
they know they have tons of legal immigrants working for them, and they pay them cash,
and they don't pay them a lot of money.
Exactly, they're fucking-
So they're benefiting on it.
That's why Mexico is our biggest trading partners, because we do what we put 90%
of our manufacturing in Mexico, and we get it dirt cheap.
I mean, again, this country is not in hands of bad politicians. It's in hand of fucking robbers
that are owning huge companies, that are stealing from the country. They're doing all
these crazy fucking shit, like outsourcing for cheapest fucking labor, benefiting everyone,
but only their own pocket.
So who's fault is that? Is that the guy who's trying to work to pay his family, and he's not
a citizen, so he has to get paid cash, but he's providing all this labor. He's working harder than
any fucking other person on the job site or whatever it may be. Is it their fault, or is the
fucking guy who owns the company? Who knows he's getting this shit for 50 cents on the dollar?
It's corporate America, who's fucking up. They own the fucking country.
They're doing all these crazy, shitty policies for their own fucking benefit,
but for the demise of the whole country. I'm pretty sure that any politician,
call it Biden or call it Trump, they're well educated enough to know what's better for our country,
but they are in the fucking hands or the paws of corporate America, that they don't give a
shit. They're going to tell you like, no, you know what's best for our country? Let's outsource
everything to China. Let's outsource everything to Mexico, and let's let these illegal immigrants
work illegally and get paid cash instead of like actually put them on the workforce and make them
pay taxes like everyone else for the benefit of the country, right? And them because they're
going to be legal. So it's a win-win, but the only ones losing is the owners of that company,
they're going to have to pay taxes and employees and all that shit. They don't want to do that
because they want to earn this extra fucking penny.
Yeah. And the politicians, all they want to do is they're going to do whatever it takes to
stay in power. To stay in power. Yeah. And if these guys corporate America, call it corporate
cartels, American corp, American cartels, whatever, they work as fucking cartels. Exactly the same
shit, right? It's the same shit. It's just, it's just, it's within legal boundaries. There's a
machine, there's a mechanism in America that allows this stuff to work legally. And I mean,
senators and politicians, they're basically prostitutes to big organizations, pharmaceutical
or whatever it might be. Exactly. Yes. That's what's happening with this country, which is,
we, we talked about this yesterday, like this is still like, this is a country that manages
to every 80, 70, 50, 100 years to renew itself. And it's fucking great. And it's because of its
people, right? Because of the benefits of people has, they kind of like take everything for granted.
But when, when these country feels that their level of comfortable is being threatened,
that's when it steps up and it's great. And it's, it's something that it's not happening in Mexico.
Places like Mexico, we're optimistic about it. We say like, no, this year we're doing great,
we're doing better every year. But in reality, we're going to shit. It's just our opinion that
it's naturally optimistic. And we're feeling that we're doing better every administration, every
year. We now have a train, we now have electricity, we now have whatever fucking country is going to
shit. While this country, the opinion usually goes like that, but the country goes like this.
It always comes up first, right? And it's because people still has the capability to turn the
country over, right? To say like, okay, it's not Biden, it's not Trump, it's not the migrants,
it's the fucking corporations. Let's fucking switch that up. And it, and it gets a lot of
sacrifices for the people, right? Like economical depressions and all that shit. But it works at
the end. And this country renews itself. And that's, that's beautiful about it. That's, that's,
that's cool. Well, bro, I always enjoy these conversations with you. Same, bro. Your flight
is coming soon. We got to get you out of here. But I really enjoyed that. Where do you envision the
next, where do you envision the dynamic playing ground of the cartels in Mexico going and the
factions? Where do you think this is going in the next like five years? The next five years are
going to be definitely interesting because the whole playground, it's going to be on the side of
the border. This is where everybody's going to be either arrested or free or snitching or talking
or trial or on trials. And this is going to become really interesting to watch all these
legal developments. I'm pretty sure that we're going to start seeing also killings in the streets
of the U.S. from these players, right? It is not the first time it happened before in Miami.
It happened before when they, all the Colombian cartels were arrested and brought to justice
into the U.S. After Pablo Escobar, they all were here in the U.S. snitching, talking, playing their
cards and killing each other on this side of the border. And this is what is going to happen
eventually here with the Sinaloa Cartel, probably most on the West Coast and LA and all those places.
But the next playground for these guys for the next five years, because you're going to have the
trial of Epidio, probably one or two other chapitos, probably some of them are going to get killed
in Mexico. Then you're going to have the Mayos. Then you're going to have new players, the Sinaloa
Cartel. You're going to have a Nini, Damosos, all these people that are already on this side of
the border. Three out of the four kids of Omaio are on this side of the border. Juan Chapito and his
security chief is probably going to be soon on this side of the border. Damoso is on this side
of the border. So everybody is going to be on this side of the border cooperating with authorities
and that's going to play out really interesting. Well, I'll be following you closely. Again,
tell everybody where to watch our videos and read your sub-stack and all that.
Subscribe to my YouTube channel. I'm going to rebump my YouTube channel, hopefully making
it more consistent, breaking news there before on Legacy Media. I'm trying to make the leap of
faith with your help, of course. When I relaunch with some good stuff, I'm going to be back and
asking for a solid from you to help me rebump my YouTube channel. Hell yeah, man. I'm psyched.
I'll link it below. Yeah. And thanks again, man. We'll get you back in here sometime next year.
Fuck yes. All right. Goodbye, world.
