All right, Ash and Forbes, thanks for coming man.
Hey Danny, nice to meet you, nice to be here.
Yeah, yeah, I'm excited to talk to you today.
Like I said, I listened to Julian's podcast that he recorded with you last week.
It was really well done.
He was very skeptical, as people should be when they're going through this stuff.
I'm excited to go through it with you here, but for people who may not be familiar with
this missing flight in Malaysia 370 that disappeared in 2014.
What is the official narrative of what happened to that plane that disappeared?
And how did you get interested in it?
And maybe even before we go into that, like let's talk about your background.
Where did you come from?
What do you do for a living?
And how long have you been like an investigator?
Yeah, I've only really been an investigator for about three months.
So, you know, what I like to say is I'm nobody special.
I am just passionately curious, which is an Albert Einstein quote.
And I've always been interested in plane crashes, mysterious plane incidents,
just because I have a fear of flying.
My background is actually in healthcare IT.
I'm an analyst, consultant, database architect, whatever you want to call it.
But maybe that analytical mindset has kind of led me to be a good person that
would actually be able to dig into this investigation, figure out what really happened.
I think what we're dealing with here is potentially the biggest,
largest, verifiable conspiracy of all time.
The official story of this plane makes very little sense.
They have this plane going dark 40 minutes after it takes off.
It flies over Malaysia.
The government doesn't send any jets to track it.
This plane goes into the Andaman Sea.
They lose track of it.
They just let it drift off into somewhere where we don't know where it went.
And then the official story says this plane turns into the South Indian Ocean.
This entire narrative is built on these Emmerstadt Pings,
which weren't released right away.
They waited weeks and weeks and weeks to release them to the public.
You'd think if we're trying to get to the bottom of a mystery to try to find
out where this plane went, you'd make that data available right away.
So this narrative got built that, well, this pilot must have taken control of the plane,
must have flown it rogue out into the South Indian Ocean.
And then supposedly crashes it along what they call the seventh arc,
which is the last ping that the satellite got from the plane.
And this ping is somewhere down near Australia.
Now the problem is we looked over there and we didn't find anything.
So as we'll dig into here today, we're going to present an alternative theory.
A theory that is supported by more evidence than any other theory to date.
One that will present a fire scenario, an emergency event,
where this pilot isn't somebody to be vilified.
They're potentially a hero who's trying to save the plane in a doomed situation.
And then it's going to get a lot crazier than that.
So your background's in healthcare IT, what specifically do you do?
Are you like, you're running the computers that this healthcare company works on and
operates on, the software programs, or what exactly is entailing that job?
I can't speak much about my job because I don't have a media clearance to speak
about exactly what I do.
What I can say is I do have a government clearance that is top secret,
as I'm told, related to what I do.
Doesn't have anything to do with UAPs.
Doesn't have anything to do with advanced technology or
anything that we're going to see in these videos.
But like I said, my job I would consider to be like a database architect.
And I've done this job for over 18 years now at this point.
Did you go to school for this kind of stuff?
I'm a business major actually.
Really?
So I was a marketing and finance and international business major.
I was always interested in economics.
But I did love science.
It's just that the math side of it gets to be a lot for me.
So I've followed physics and the kind of advanced physics concepts and
experiments that have been put out there, especially over the last five,
six years that I got interested in the UAP field since the DoD Navy footage that
was released, what are they called?
The Gimbal and the GoFast, etc.
So like 2017?
Yeah, around 2017 is when I started to realize that, huh,
maybe there's something to that in general.
And I started looking into the physics behind it,
which is gonna become very relevant when we start digging into the videos today.
All right, I'm gonna keep this short and sweet.
This is my first time ever asking the YouTube audience for help.
But with the YouTube algorithm constantly changing and evolving,
I'm left with no choice.
These podcasts are only getting shown to a very small percentage of our YouTube
subscribers.
And the only way to fix that is if people are subscribing on the videos.
That being said, if you are enjoying these podcasts and
you want to help me create more of them and make them better,
I've asked you to please hit the subscribe button below.
I would not be able to do this if it wasn't for every single one of you.
And that's the bottom line.
Thank you for watching and supporting the show.
Hit the subscribe button if you enjoy it.
Now, back to the show.
And so when you, for the last 18 years, you've been working for this company,
you've just sort of been like paying attention to this stuff as a hobby,
looking at it on Twitter.
And like, have you always been pretty active on Twitter and Reddit?
I was actually like not active at all on Twitter for the most part.
My Twitter account dates back to when I used to play like video games and
stuff like that in 2014.
And it was pretty much when dark until I started looking at these videos a few
months ago.
And my job situation, like I've worked on not necessarily at the exact same
company for that 18 years, but in the same field, I would say, in various aspects.
And then with respect to Reddit, I used to have a Reddit account when Reddit
first kind of originated.
And I think that how social media has morphed so much now to a point where it
used to be a thing where you could go there and find the news like two days
before you see it on TV.
Whereas now you go there and it's like, I don't know the exact opposite of that,
but most of it like you go there and you're not being educated in terms of
what's coming on the news anymore, you're being told what to think.
So I ended up deleting my Reddit account several years ago.
And I created a new one just for this case to kind of help get the information
out there.
And that's why people will see my account and they'll see, oh, it says it was
created in 2020.
It says your name is Additional Ad.
Well, it's because somebody else used my email account.
I have a very common email account name.
And so it looked like some bot or something used it.
And as far as I can tell, you can't change your name.
So my account is relatively new, but it shows like it's been out there since 2020.
And you said you had to deal with some sort of suppression on there?
Yeah, so like this case originated on Reddit and originated from social media.
Around August 7th, August 8th, depending on what your time zone is,
these videos reemerged.
They had been posted several times before, most recently in January.
And they've been proven to date back to 2014 on the internet archives.
I actually remember seeing one of the videos back in 2014 when I was just
interested in looking into the situation, not as an investigator or anything like
that.
So when I saw the second video and I realized that they're both in sync on Reddit,
me, like many other people, hundreds if not thousands of other people from the
community, started digging into them, finding out like, well,
can we verify certain aspects of these?
So for over, I would say, 11 days or so,
that was every single post on the UFO subreddit was about these videos.
People trying to debunk them, people trying to authenticate them.
And that's when I started to save all of those threads and
started posting them on Twitter because I thought this information was pertinent
and I didn't see anybody else really posting it on Twitter.
And so eventually it got suppressed.
There was a debunk that came out.
Yes, a one day old account posted an image from a software claiming that this
effect that we're going to see in our videos supposedly came from this low
quality 90s video game.
And that got bought up voted to the top of Reddit, had all these awards given to
it, the comments were extremely suspicious in the thread mentioning,
oh, thank God, we don't have to talk about this anymore.
The account was one day old.
It's called IC slide, which actually stands for it's a play on words,
which can just mean intelligence community forum sliding.
And so it's a very suspect account, didn't answer any questions at all.
This thread was actually used to shut down the conversation on Reddit entirely.
So the moderators of that subreddit, they banned all discussion of it and
they pushed it to a new subreddit that was called airliner abduction 2014,
which is a really weird name for a subreddit related to an MH370 case.
They moved it from the UFO subreddit to its own subreddit.
Exactly.
And the people that run that subreddit are not people who are trying to solve the case.
There are people who are trying to get it to go away.
As far as I can tell, there are people that are related to debunk forms that are
out there that are trying to prove that it might not be real.
And so I created my own subreddit.
It was called MH370X, which is the name of the organization I started on Twitter as
well to try to solve the mystery of the case here.
And the same day that I revealed my identity, and
I knew that when I would reveal my full identity, that there would be a tax.
I didn't realize they would just ban my whole subreddit the same exact day.
Without any warning, without really any justified cause.
I think that they said I violated the moderator code of conduct, which is like
pretty hard to believe on Reddit where people just get banned for
posting on certain subreddits from other subreddits with no rational reason whatsoever.
You violated the moderator code of conduct.
Did they say how you violated it?
Not only did they not say, when I appealed, first of all,
they didn't respond to my first appeal for over seven days.
And then they told me to put in a new appeal.
So I put in a new appeal and I get a response the next day saying,
yeah, we're not gonna unban your subreddit, but we can't give you a reason why.
It's like, why can't you give a reason why?
That's absurd, right?
But can you still post on Reddit?
Yeah, so I can, but they've been banning me as well.
Just like, I would get bans for three days for harassment,
where I've never harassed anybody before.
Why would they ban you for harassment?
I think it's for messaging the moderators in general.
So the moderators of those various subreddits hate me
with the passion of a thousand sons.
And I think it's due to the fact that when I first started posting
on that airline or abduction subreddit,
I wanted to get real information out there
because I saw so much misinformation being posted on the subreddit.
I could realize that, in my opinion,
that their goal was to make it so that the case never got solved,
that nobody was putting real information out there.
So I started posting my information.
I'm the number one contributor of that subreddit.
I have the top post on that subreddit.
They ended up banning me from the subreddit.
And they started putting tags on my content
because other people started posting my content there.
And they started putting potential scammer tags
on anything that was related to me.
Right now, they actually have a ban on my name,
on that subreddit.
If you post anything with my name in it,
your content automatically gets removed.
So this just goes to show you that the level of suppression
that's currently out there, because what it comes down to
is if you have somebody out there telling the truth
and really trying to solve the case,
it's the exact opposite of what they're trying to do out there.
So they claim they banned you for sending messages
to the moderators of these subreddits.
What kind of messages were you sending them?
Were you sending them?
Was it very polite or was it a little bit harsh for you?
Yeah, originally it was pretty polite.
In terms of why are you letting people harass me?
Because there's people constantly harassing me
on those forums.
And I would report them and nothing would happen.
And then their response is,
well, you need to let people criticize you
and stuff like that.
And that's in much harsher terms
is the way they would phrase it very flippantly as well.
And so when they started posting the potential scammer stuff,
that's when I just straight up said, like,
hey, if you don't remove this,
I'm gonna send you a cease and desist.
I'm gonna find out who you guys are.
This is defamation.
This is not cool that you're doing this to me.
Because I'm not a public figure.
I mean, maybe I am now, I don't know how that really works.
But I think that the idea where you can just try to tag people
with this stuff, stuff like that's inappropriate.
So I actually did send a cease and desist to Reddit.
And then at the same day they received it,
they removed that tag entirely.
And so they claim that that's me threatening them.
I guess if defaming somebody and letting them know
that being defamed is not cool as a threat,
then maybe they're right.
But in my opinion, it's just a matter of
defending my good name and my reputation.
Okay.
All right, so you got deep into this thing on Reddit.
Obviously you got into some confrontations
with the people that were monitoring these subreddits.
And from there, that's kind of when this thing spiraled
and you started to, so how did you start to really get
attention on social media for the stuff
that you were looking into regarding this case?
Yeah, so I'd say probably about three or four days
into the case when some of the users had recognized
that what we were looking at in the satellite video
was potentially a Citrix session logged in
to the actual spy satellite database,
was when I had also been looking at it and I realized
that, well, this video is not taken by a camera.
It's not like the camera's behind them,
like we have going on here in the studio.
It's not like a camera phone staring at it as well.
And that's why I realized like,
wow, this was actually somebody who got caught.
Like you're not gonna be able to hide this information.
What, can you define what a Citrix session is?
Yeah.
So most companies, as far as every company
I've ever worked for, and I think large,
all big companies for the most part,
like if you log into your laptop or whatever,
you usually log into a Citrix session
to access their database.
Their database is in a remote location,
and when you're logging into that,
you have to have tunnel into it.
That's what these Citrix sessions allow you to do.
Like, what's that program people use
to remotely access other people?
Team viewer, something like that?
It could be similar to that, yeah.
But in this case, usually it's like,
you have a business that has a big centralized database
and you wanna have people log into it.
And usually what that means is that your computer
is just like a window into the house, right?
Okay.
And that's probably the best analogy for it.
Even when I went to school,
you would log into a Citrix session
on whatever computers were available,
and now you're logged into your school's network, right?
Okay, I understand now.
So it's like that.
And so when we saw that, I realized, wow,
because I knew that most people would try
to debunk these videos with prosaic explanations.
Oh, it looks like a balloon or whatever.
But once you've proven that the base videos are real
because this person was logged into a Citrix session,
now it pretty much eliminates any situation
where someone says that doesn't look right.
Because now you've proven that, oh,
the base footage at a minimum is real at this point,
potentially even more than that.
So that's when I really started to take,
get, I guess, activist about it
and become a citizen journalist
and start writing about it and say, okay.
So the jump off for you
was when you saw these two videos?
Yeah, and then when I had enough information
to realize that, oh, this might not be fake anymore.
And so I actually made a post on Twitter,
and that's the platform I chose to use initially,
in part because I knew Elon Musk had taken it back over.
I'd read the Twitter files.
I knew that the government might be more disconnected
from it than they were before.
I'm certain that if we were under old Twitter leadership,
my account would have been banned a long time ago.
Likely.
Like almost 100% sure.
So, and actually I trusted the media
to take this kind of over from me.
There's all my posts out there, you can read them.
I think it was August 14th,
was the day I made the post about
begging the media to take this story.
Right, I figured there'd be journalists out there
that would report it,
the TV stations would report it,
and nobody did.
Nobody still has reached out to me to this day right now.
No TV stations, none of the news channels, nothing.
Nothing mainstream, no newspaper publications
have ever talked about these videos.
There were a couple articles posted,
one in the Daily Star,
and one in the, was it Daily Mail?
Could be wrong, but so, or it might have been The Sun,
but as far as I know only two articles
have been written at all ever about it.
Neither of those people reached out to me either.
Nobody has ever reached out to me
other than alternative media, which I think is odd,
because mainstream media will report
on a lot of fake stuff.
The one article, the thing I like to talk about
is the Las Vegas alien sighting
from the kid and his family.
Like that got so much reporting, right?
And they just made this kid look like silly, right?
So they're not afraid to go and just, you know,
ridicule somebody, but when it comes to me,
when I have all this evidence lined up, right?
They're too afraid to even bring it up,
which to me adds a level of credibility.
It tells me that these videos
probably are classified information
and that either they are being told
not to look into it because of that,
or there might be people telling them,
hey, don't look into this, this is fake, blah, blah, blah,
when, you know, it's potentially not.
I can only speculate, but what I do know
is that I can't really trust the mainstream media
and those channels to report on it fairly,
which is why I'm here talking to people like you,
as opposed to going to any of them,
and we will not see me on any of those as well.
So on August 14th, I decided, and I told my followers,
if they don't want to report on it,
we'll be the ones to do it.
And I said that we would get disclosure on our timetables,
and we wouldn't let anybody else set the narrative,
which I think to this date, I've lived up to that promise.
Have you gotten any sort of push,
or like flack from the company you work for?
Because I'm sure people there have seen you in the media
or on podcasts and stuff like that.
What do they say about you doing all this stuff?
Are they cool with it?
Yeah, I mean, right away, when I dug into this early on,
I made sure I was covered from all my company.
That's why I said the thing about not having a media release,
but as long as I'm doing it on my own time,
it's totally fine.
I've talked to all my bosses, I've let my company know,
hey, if you get weird calls from people,
you know, go to the authorities,
like people might try to troll,
whatever they might try to do,
get me in trouble or something.
So I haven't got any pushback on that.
You know, as long as I'm using my own time off
and what have you, you know,
I'm just coming to you here today as an independent person,
not related to my company in any way, shape, or form.
And some people in my company know, like they've seen,
you know, and they reached out to me like,
oh, I didn't realize that was you, blah, blah, blah, right?
And it's like, yeah, it's kind of fun, whatever,
but I understand the reality of the situation is that
because of the magnitude of what we're dealing with
and this conspiracy, and then what we'll see
from these videos and the technology potentially there,
there's a good portion of people in all of America
that will not be able to accept them to be real.
And so that's why you don't see me going into Starbucks
being like, guys, guys, I'm age three, seven, zero.
And I don't do the same thing
with people in my company, right?
You know, people want to talk to me about it,
sure, we can talk about it in private,
but I'm not out there trying to force people
to believe any certain thing.
Like I just want to present the evidence
and have people come to their own terms
or what they think it means.
Right, now I watched the documentary on Netflix
about this whole thing.
And I think that came out maybe a year ago in 2022,
is that right?
I think it was actually like March of 2023,
it wasn't even that long ago.
People try to like tie it to this,
but they're not tied at all, these videos came out
or they were reemerged four or five months later.
It's interesting that at no point in that documentary
do they mention any of these videos.
Have you talked to anybody involved
in producing that documentary
or any of the investigators that were part of it?
Yeah, I think every single investigator
I've talked to probably firsthand directly.
So Jeff Wise, the woman Cindy who claims she saw debris
from the satellite picture.
She's the lady in Florida?
Yep, yep, I've talked to her on a space on Twitter one time.
Jeff Wise, I've gone back and forth with on Twitter
several times, Florence Dachangi,
I've chatted with a number of times as well.
My opinion is that the only one I really find credible
is probably Florence Dachangi, interestingly enough.
Why is she the only one that you think is credible?
Jeff has been doing a podcast himself
related to the developments recently
and I've kind of followed along with it.
I think he's a very intelligent guy
and I believe he's a pilot
and knows a lot of technical information.
But I think that he falls victim to the same levels
of propaganda that I've seen from mainstream media
and potentially even from places like Reddit as well.
For him in particular, my opinion is that
back in 2014, 2016, everything was about how bad Russia is
and probably still is to this day.
But going all the way back to Crimea, et cetera.
And so that in his mind, he just thinks
that Russia has to be somehow involved with this.
And I think that takes away a little bit
from his credibility and I saw him talk
about the videos actually one time as well.
And like many people who can't come to terms
with the evidence, they lead to ridicule.
Like, oh, it's just so silly that this could be possible.
But when you dig into the evidence, it's like,
no, this is actually the most plausible scenario,
it uses more evidence than any other theory to date.
It doesn't discount almost any evidence
except for some Emerson Pings after a very specific time.
So for him, I think he's a smart guy.
I hope he kind of comes around because the commonality
all these people have, I think is that
they realize there's something wrong
with the official story, it doesn't add up.
Now, Jeff Wise, he's the one who came up with the theory
that the Russians on the plane,
the three Russians potentially hijacked it
going through the computer, the panel on the floor
in the first class cabin and then somehow connected
their computer to it and then routed the plane
remotely through their computer to Kazakhstan
or something like that.
Yeah, and I can't really speak for him and his theory,
but my understanding is that, yes,
he thinks the plane somehow got to Russia.
And the main problem with that is there would have been
a number of radars that would have caught it, right?
Not types of radars that are people
that are gonna cover up for Russia either.
So that's the biggest issue with this theory,
in my opinion, plus there's been a lot of speculation
of whether or not you can actually remote control a plane.
I looked into it a lot, I can't tell one way or another.
I think that I saw the debunks that said you can't,
but if we're talking about the technology
that we're gonna be talking about here
and those videos which are potentially
what I like to call referred to as teleportation,
if the government has that kind of capability,
then remote control in a plane seems like, you know,
small peanuts in comparison.
So there may be some merit to some of those ideas,
but if we're talking about passengers taking over the plane,
I'm not looking at the Russians on board,
I'm looking at the two fake Iranian passengers
that were on stolen passports
that had changed their appearance
to look more like the people
on the passports that they were using,
that seems like a much more plausible
hijacking scenario to me.
So I think a lot of his stuff breaks down.
So can you explain what that is real quick?
Well, what's the story with the two Iranians
with the fake passports?
Yeah, so there were two Iranians
that were using stolen passports
where they had like, there was a press conference
where the real guy shows up with his real passport going,
I wasn't on that plane, right?
And they've got pictures of these guys in the airports.
And they can tell that like,
they actually look a little bit like the real guy.
Like they had changed their facial appearance
to look more like them.
So they had cloned these guys' passports?
No, they had stolen them.
Like they had gotten stolen passports
and then they had bought those stolen passports.
They were spending thousands, if not tens of thousands
of dollars on the stolen passports and the tickets.
The cover story here is that from the official narrative
that these guys were Iranian refugees in Kuala Lumpur
who were trying to get to Amsterdam.
Now, the problem with that is there's a direct flight
from Kuala Lumpur to Amsterdam.
So this idea that you're going from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing,
going through another country,
not just another country, but China,
to get to Amsterdam doesn't really add up.
The issue here is that I don't have a good way
to connect this to the plane unless you believe
in this hijacking scenario, in which case,
in a post-911 world, I can't understand
how these guys aren't suspects number one and two, right?
Because in a hijacking scenario,
I'm looking for the fake passengers first, right?
The people who are on stolen passports that are with Iran.
That's a red flag.
Iran actually hijacked an RQ-170 spy drone in 2011
as well, three years before this.
They hacked it and landed it,
and then they made their own versions of it.
It looks like an advanced drone, it's like a triangle almost,
that can fly for very long periods of time,
autonomous vehicle, and I've actually seen the versions
that Iran made as well, and they look very similar
to the RQ-170, so if there is an espionage angle
to what's at play here, definitely need to be looking
into those two guys for sure.
They got dismissed as not being part of it
within like three days of the plane going missing,
and that's why I barely even remembered it.
I had to go dig back to the old,
kind of like early news articles about it
to even remember these guys were out there.
Yeah, now I remember you and Julian talking about,
for full disclosure, Julian's podcast with you
has not come out yet, it'll probably be about another week.
I listened to just the audio of it, he sent me,
and you guys were getting into some of the arguments
in regards to how possible it would be
for this plane to be hijacked
and get through the pilot door.
What specifically was the theory
you guys were picking apart there?
Well, I think the issue is, if somebody hijacks the plane,
are they going to be able to keep everybody out,
and how are they gonna disable everybody, right?
So there's two major thoughts here and complications.
First, you gotta depressurize the plane
and make everybody pass out.
First, to be clear, you don't think it was hijacked?
No, I think there's no chance it was hijacked.
I think what we're dealing with is an emergency situation
related to the lithium ion batteries,
fire that came about, and I think that
when it comes to the pilot's suicide angle,
there's nothing within the entire flight path
that indicates that.
When somebody is suiciding a plane,
and I think the best example would be
the German Wings guy from 2015,
actually looked into this since that podcast,
he locks out the co-pilot,
and they actually changed the policies after that
so that you can't have just one person in the cockpit
anymore, he crashed that plane within 10 minutes.
So I think the big thing here is how long
would it take to get into the cockpit?
And the issue is that even if you can't get in there
right away, eventually there's gonna be a way to get in.
Really?
And so what I found out from digging into it is,
there's a programmer override where you can punch
in a code and you can get in.
Now the person on the inside can disable that temporarily,
they can say no, right, on it,
which is ideas to prevent people from hijacking
and getting in there.
Jeff Wise actually argued that from the electronics bay,
you can disable the door lock, essentially.
So you might have the technical capability,
especially if it's a crew,
to be able to go in there and disable the door.
Again, that might be something that's gonna take
a little bit longer though, right?
And that's why this timeframe is so important,
is that okay, maybe you can keep people out
for 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes or whatever,
but eventually people are gonna find a way
to get through there.
They're gonna break down the wall if they have to.
In fact, if you depressurize the plane,
I found out there's some panels that will break out.
And they do so intentionally because they want to
equalize the pressure between the passengers area
and the crew area.
And that's for a specific purpose, I guess,
but the idea there is if there's panels breaking out,
you're gonna break through those panels
and you're gonna get into the cockpit, right?
So I think there are several ways
where you'd be able to MacGyver your way into the cockpit,
whether or not that door is steel reinforced
or what have you.
And that's not even taking into account
that you've got 200 people that might be able to,
you know, jam one of those carts through it
and eventually break it down as well.
So in a scenario, it's a very short period of time.
I think that the hijacking scenario, whatever makes sense.
But again, if it's a suicidal pilot scenario,
they're just gonna crash the plane into the ocean right away.
They're gonna do a German wings situation
where they're gonna crash it into a mountain
within 10 minutes.
They're not gonna go on a six hour plus joy ride
with everybody in the back of the plane.
Then you might say, okay, well, you depressurize it.
I think that when people lie,
they usually add an element of truth,
which is why what I think happened
was a lithium ion battery explosion
that did depressurize the plane.
Now in that situation,
if you're trying to take out everybody,
you wanna fly very high, the higher you are up,
the quicker hypoxia is gonna take over people.
But we have witnesses that saw the plane flying very low.
Eight witnesses, in fact, 10 minutes after this happened,
which is counterintuitive to that scenario.
Now, in addition to that,
the crew oxygen is limited as well.
So we've looked into the crew oxygen.
I can't find a lot of corroborated elements
because there's not a lot of situations like this
that actually happen in real life.
But the ones that I have seen,
generally as oxygen does not last
as long as people would imagine it to last,
mostly because you have to run it on 100% oxygen
when you are in a full depressurization situation.
And that means it's gonna drain very quickly.
So obviously it depends on how many people
are sucking that oxygen in,
but the time estimates that I found
are anywhere from 30 minutes to two hours.
For the crew oxygen.
For the crew oxygen.
And so I think that's why,
when you look at the official narratives,
they try to claim,
oh, well maybe this plane was just flying unmanned, right?
That maybe the guy passed out himself,
because the big part of the problem is that
if you depressurize the plane,
you're putting yourself at risk as the pilot.
So I don't think that there's any plausible scenario
where this plane is flying for a total of eight hours
while, you know, 40 minutes in, it got depressurized.
You know, either the oxygen is gonna run out
and now you're gonna lose control,
the plane is gonna crash,
or the people are gonna get in there eventually.
And that's my main argument, I think,
against the pilot suicide narrative.
But more so, when we end up looking at
why it didn't crash into the South Indian Ocean,
you realize that we don't even need to cast out
on the pilot suicide scenario,
because there's no evidence the plane crashed
into the South Indian Ocean at all.
Right, right, so yeah.
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast
is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount
of nutrition, exercise, and sleep as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about
and have discussed at length with doctors
and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated
into translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging
by increasing my NAD levels with powerful ingredients,
such as NMN, transversed varitrol, and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules
in the body, but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes
called sirtuins.
Sirtuins are called longevity genes
because by activating them, they support overall health
and slow down aging related effects
by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism,
repair damaged DNA, and ramp up energy production
in your brain, immune system, and muscles.
Now you can't take NAD plus as a supplement
because it's too big for the cells to absorb,
but NMN directly converts to NAD plus
while resveratrol activates your sirtuins,
which increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically
and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN on its own.
Verso also publishes third-party testing
from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Danny.
It's spelled D-A-N-N-Y to save 15% off your entire order,
or just go to ver.so forward slash Danny, back to the show.
So, okay, who is in the documentary?
There's a woman from Florida who says that she found debris,
a satellite images of debris of this plane
in the South China Sea, right?
Yeah, Cindy.
Have you met with her and have you talked with her?
I did talk to her in a space.
It didn't last very long.
Twitter spaces?
Yeah, Twitter spaces.
And I mean, I was surprised how many people
I've been connected with, honestly, on all of this stuff.
And I-
Why didn't it last long?
I think we don't see eye-to-eye
in terms of what evidence shows.
I looked at her Twitter profile
and I looked at those same pictures
that they show on the Netflix documentary.
And some of them, the scale is okay,
but on some of them, the scale doesn't match at all.
Keep in mind, a lot of those pictures
are from over a week after the plane went missing.
So in order to even believe that to be possible,
there was 42 planes and 39 boats
from, I think, 13 different countries that we're searching.
And then initially they were searching
the South China Sea.
So for them not to find any debris in the South China Sea
is just impossible.
If this plane was shot down,
which I think is the claim that she makes,
there's gonna be debris everywhere.
This is the same reason why the plane
didn't crash in the South Indian Ocean.
If a 777 crashes into the ocean,
there's gonna be a huge debris field.
We're gonna see it from space the very next day.
We have satellites everywhere
as we'll show later today as well.
So I think she tries to match up stuff
that she uses prosaic explanations.
Oh, these white caps here,
these other stuff I'm seeing in the ocean.
If you draw triangles around it or whatever,
now it looks like a piece of the plane, right?
And she superimposes pictures of the plane over it.
And that's not a very, let's say,
scientific way to go about an investigation, right?
Especially when you've had 80 planes and boats
that are searching around there in total,
you can maybe cover up and have somebody lie
or you have the government lie,
but you've got a bunch of independent people now
at this point.
All these people would have to be lying
and not seeing the debris or collecting it
and not saying anything about it.
So that story falls apart really quickly, yeah.
I'm just really shocked
that you guys didn't talk for very long.
I would imagine that she would be someone
I'd want to spend a lot of time talking to her
and understand her way of thinking
and understand how she came to this conclusion,
how she found it, exactly how she can prove
how long after the flight crash
did she find these images and when they were taken?
Like, I would want to go meet with her
and spend a day with her.
Yeah, and I think the thing there is that
when you start to ask those questions,
you don't get any good answers, right?
So because it starts to fall apart right away.
So when I started asking that kind of-
I think that's the point, right?
You want to get the, even if they're not good,
that's really important.
Yeah, that's a kind of questions I begin to ask, you know?
And I don't want to say anything mean or rude
about the situation at all,
but what I will say is one of the first things she asks
is whether or not I worked in the government.
And I think that's just kind of an odd thing to say
in terms of what my credibility was.
And at that point, I hadn't revealed myself funny enough.
So I have a top secret clearance, so-
That's why, I mean, look,
Twitter's not a good place to communicate.
It's really not like that.
I would be reaching out to these people independently
on my own, if not in person, I probably would do it.
I mean, if I was really taking it seriously,
like devoting my life to it,
I would absolutely be talking to them on the phone,
in person, not on Twitter spaces,
because it's just, it's so toxic on there.
Yeah, yeah.
And so when she mentioned that
and she told me that, you know,
what her job was or what have you,
you know, the problem there too is that her,
that story, it's not just her story,
but anybody that believes this plan was, you know,
crash or shot down in the South China Sea,
it doesn't match any of the evidence,
like none of the evidence.
They've already, we've got radar data
showing the plane going back over Malaysia.
We've got the defense minister talking about
how they had an unidentified plane,
which can only be MH370,
that they knew it was civilian airliner,
that they knew it wasn't hostile.
We've got these immerstat pings,
which I don't think that they're all necessarily fake,
but I think that there's something screwy
that they did with the data there.
What's an immerstat ping?
So there are these satellites.
They're all over the world.
And in these satellites,
I have an image that I can actually pull up as well on this,
these satellite pictures,
they're pinging these planes every so often.
And while they're pinging these planes,
there are two satellites that are in range of our plane.
There's an IOR satellite and there's a POR satellite.
So these are the overlays here
that we're seeing in this image.
And when we're looking on over here near Malaysia,
you can see there's overlap
between the black one and the red one here.
This black one is POR,
which is the Pacific Island area.
And then this IOR is the Indian Ocean one, this red one.
You can see that they overlap in Malaysia here,
we should be able to ping two of them.
Interestingly enough,
30 minutes before this plane takes off,
it stops pinging the POR satellite entirely.
And for the rest of the flight path,
for the rest of the eight hours,
it only pings the IOR satellite.
Why is this important?
Is if you have two different satellites pinging the plane,
you can figure out exactly where it is for triangulation.
Because these pings tell you how far away the plane is
from the satellite.
When you only have one,
the problem is now you can tell how far away it is,
but you can't tell where it is.
So now you have an arc.
And this is why they have these arcs
that they have calculated where they think the plane was.
Now they don't use these until the radar data runs out.
So we have this radar data,
which is probably pretty accurate in terms of where
the plane went unless you think they manipulated
that as well.
And then after that is where we rely on these pings.
And this is where then Jeff Weiss says,
oh, it went north because you're looking at an arc
and you're saying, okay, I'm gonna follow the data
and I'm gonna say the plane went north.
Most of the other experts say, oh, no,
I'm gonna follow the data and the plane went south.
And that's how we get to the South Indian Ocean.
Now the problem is there, we looked everywhere, right?
We didn't find a debris field anywhere.
We looked across this seventh arc
where we say this plane ran out of gas.
We didn't find any black boxes down there either.
So we have already a situation where it's like, huh,
well, if this plane crashed there,
how can we find anything?
This is an active shipping route.
We look at this active shipping route
and we don't find a black box.
There's no witnesses that see this plane crash down there.
What is the process of finding a black box
in the vastness of the Indian Ocean?
Good question.
So these black boxes are actually rated
for like 20,000 feet deep.
So this is no problem for the depth of this location here.
I think I actually posted on Twitter a piece
that like looks across this arc about the depths.
And it gets pretty deep in some parts,
but not deep enough that we wouldn't be able
to find a black box.
They have these boats and they put like a wire on them
with an acoustic device
and you just trail them along the water.
And so I kept trying to figure out like,
how far away would you be able to hear this?
Like from the surface, right?
The best I can find is there's some articles
mentioning like one or two kilometers.
So you have to be pretty close, I guess,
but the weird part is like,
wait, the thing the boat is trolling
that pings the acoustics is...
How many meters away has to be from the box?
No, that part is like 20,000 feet.
20,000 feet. So very, very far.
It can be theoretically.
But with respect to like,
if you're on the surface, right, the water's really deep.
So it's like, how far,
you have to use like some triangulation to figure out
like, okay, what's the hypotenuse here
and how far can you be?
But some news articles mentioned, okay,
one to two kilometers from the surface
from where the box might be on the bottom of the ocean
pretty much.
But I have a hard time believing that
because these things were transmitting,
I'm gonna say, I think it was 35 megahertz or kilohertz,
which is essentially people have told me,
like especially in the water,
the sound carries really well.
And the sound that they make is unique.
Like it's not any organ,
it's not similar to any whales
or any other sounds that you would hear.
So you should be able to hear it very clearly.
There was a couple of instances
where they thought they saw it,
but there's expert analysis that shows
that like they should have known right away.
There's no chance that these were the black boxes.
The signal they give off is too unique, too specific.
The other problems with the South Indian Ocean narrative
is there's a number of acoustic sound devices
that would have heard this plane crashing
to the South Indian Ocean.
The one that people most commonly know about now
is the Sosa system.
This is the one that heard the Titan sub
that was going down near the Titanic.
They heard it pop, the Navy did.
And they didn't mention it for five days.
While everybody's sitting there watching the news
and they go, I know how much oxygen
do these guys have left to the bottom of the ocean?
And then five days later they go, oh yeah, we heard it.
And you know what, we're gonna send down our guys
and go pick up the debris.
And I think they had the debris in under a week.
So it tells you they had pinpointed exactly
where this had happened, right?
And they knew exactly where it was.
This Sosa system was declassified years ago
before even the plane crashing into the ocean supposedly.
And they didn't hear any acoustic sounds from it.
They've never mentioned that they've heard any.
There's also two hydrophone systems.
Western Australia has a hydrophone system
which works fundamentally similar.
And Diego Garcia is a military base in the Indian Ocean.
Also has a hydrophone system.
That data I know has been made publicly available.
Neither of these heard the plane crash into the ocean.
There's no acoustic detections that match it.
And again, we're talking about a 777 crashing
into the ocean.
So definitely they should have heard something
of a crash there.
There was also 19 passengers or victims of the passengers
or families of the victims of the passengers
that signed a statement claiming that they could call
the cell phones of the victims
for up to four days afterwards.
Now, a lot of doubt has been cast on this
claiming like, oh yeah, you can still, you know,
the phone might ring before it goes to voicemail
or you might still connect to the old cell tower.
But we've looked at the cell ranges.
They don't go into the South Indian Ocean.
We've looked at the physics of it.
If your phone is under like several feet of water,
you're not gonna be able to give service.
If your phone is submerged in saltwater
for like 30 minutes, it's gonna die.
I think it's very improbable that you would be able
to call these phones and that many of them, 19 of them,
for up to four days if they were really
worried about in the ocean.
In fact, one of them even showed it on the live television.
They actually have a video of them calling
on live television or recording of it.
So there's a ton of evidence against it.
In addition to that, these planes have four ELT transponders
that are redundant, that activate only during plane crash.
None of them went off as far as we know.
So there's this huge amount of evidence that says,
okay, as much as people think this plane crashed
in the South Indian Ocean, we should have had some sign of it.
Not just some pings that are subjective,
that may have gone North, may have gone South.
There should have actually been witnesses.
There should have been a black box found.
We should have had acoustic detections that we heard.
We should have heard the ELT transmissions
when they crash into the ocean.
All of this information.
The biggest one is the debris field.
There just can't not be a debris field.
Even the Wagner jet, that Wagner Russian guy
who was plane was shot down or whatever.
We had satellite pictures of this tiny debris field
from a private jet the next day.
So it's like, that's on the land.
In the ocean, the debris is gonna start spreading out.
You're gonna have this huge debris field.
It's probably gonna be miles wide within several days.
There's gonna be bodies, luggage,
parts of the plane floating everywhere.
The official search found nothing.
I'm gonna repeat that.
The official search didn't find one piece of the plane.
This debris that people think is out there that they found,
this happened over a year later.
Some parts of the plane wash up on some islands,
on the reunion islands.
I think some parts in South Africa.
Got a gas car.
Yeah, and a lot of it was found by one guy
in the Netflix documentary.
Yeah, that's bizarre.
Yeah, Blaine Gibson.
The Netflix documentary actually tries
to cast a bad light on him.
And I think it was very unfair.
I think this is just a normal guy.
I think he really was good-hearted personally.
I don't think he has these ties to Russia
and he's a spy or anything like that.
It just, that's not the impression I got from watching it.
Which I think is why our theory is interesting
because some of this debris that was found,
some of that he found, had burn marks on it.
And the parts that had burn marks on it
had this unique honeycomb structure to it
that's unique to Boeing planes.
So this actually is pretty strong evidence that,
okay, maybe if this is from our plane
that our plane did have a fire happen.
And the debris that was found,
this flap around that they found,
this is the main piece that they try to tie to the plane
and say this is definitely from MH370.
The media doesn't tell you
that there's a unique serial plate on this flap around.
It's missing.
Right.
So what that means is the serial number they claim they matched
was not a unique serial number.
That's just a serial number for that part.
Yes. Right?
And sure, it could still be from MH370,
especially in the scenario that we're gonna present for
where maybe it burns off the plane,
it falls off the plane,
or maybe this plane lands somewhere else
and they take the plane apart
and throw a couple of pieces in the ocean.
I think that's what Jeff Wise actually argues.
Right, but the crazy thing about that guy is,
what's his name, Blaine?
Yeah, Blaine Gibson, yeah.
is he was similar to you talking to people online
who were messaging him,
trying to point him in a specific direction,
saying that like, look, if there's debris,
you should go here and look.
And he goes exactly where this person on the internet,
this random internet person told him to go,
he travels there and within 20 minutes
finds pieces of the fucking plane.
But nobody else had seen, and nobody else,
I mean, this like on an active beach that, yeah.
Right, like this guy needs to play the lottery.
It's insane.
And then he goes somewhere else
and finds many more pieces of the plane within hours.
Yeah, I think he found at least 10 pieces.
And I think overall they claim that there's been
like 30 pieces found in general.
And some parts of the issue with the debris too
is it doesn't have a barnacles on a lot of it.
And this tries to get like hand waved with like,
oh, well maybe it was on the shore for a while
and the sun like baked the barnacles off.
But from all the barnacle analysis that I've done,
which is more than I ever want to do in my life,
these barnacles form like really quickly
on stuff that's submerged in the water.
Okay.
So it's like, okay, well if these are clean
and they don't have any barnacles on them,
like how long were they really in the water for?
Right, like the idea is kind of like
it doesn't really match up with the timeline,
especially if this stuff was found 18 months later.
You would imagine it's just completely covered
in barnacles, right?
So I grew up on the ocean and around a lot of barnacles.
I've had a lot of encounters with barnacles in my life.
Every instance where I've seen barnacles,
barnacle growth is on, what's that sound?
Steve, is that your mic?
No.
Oh, okay.
That's somebody breathing.
I heard like a whistling.
Anyway, so in every instance when I've seen barnacles,
it's on like pilings, like dock pilings,
or on something that's in shallow water
away from currents that is stagnant
for a long period of time.
I'm not aware of anything that floats through
open ocean currents that barnacle growth happens on.
Yeah, and again, I'm not the expert on this,
but Jeff Weiss actually does like two or three pieces
of the barnacle growth, especially the flapper on.
Like in order for it to get these barnacles on it,
the way that it does, like he claims,
well, it had to been like under the water,
not at the surface and like spinning around,
like at a very specific layer in the water,
which just seems very implausible to me in general.
Like Steve, maybe you can find something like this,
like where do barnacles grow?
How do barnacles feed on?
How do they stay alive?
And what are the optimal living conditions for barnacles?
And there was another article that came out recently
while I was investigating claiming that they had
like new barnacle analysis based on these like,
you know, actually the temperature of certain water
that claimed, oh, we'll be able to pinpoint the plane
from this, which I just kept thinking about like,
this is like really like reading the tea leaves,
trying to figure out like where we're gonna reverse engineer
to figure out where the plane went and went gone, right?
But I think the bigger thing that cast out
on all that debris is that there was another copy
of the plane that allowed people to know this,
purchased by GA Telesis in October of 2013,
less than six months before this plane goes missing.
This GA Telesis company has connections
to the military guy that started it,
it was like in his 30s, ex-military,
all of a sudden he's in charge
of this multi-billion dollar plane purchasing company.
The model that they bought, exact model of MH370,
scrapped like a decade or two too early.
So there actually is potentially another plane out there
that would have had similar parts
that could have been put in the water
or could have ended up in the water
that could have been misconnected to MH370.
Now again, what I would say is that the theory
that we're presenting with fire
and this advanced technology that we're gonna be seeing
accounts for all the debris, you know,
the little amounts of debris that is out there,
if you go look at this CNN picture that exists out there,
it's a tiny amount, it's just like 1% of the plane.
And if you look at all that debris and add it up,
it's not like finding a whole plane,
it's like finding a tiny bit of it.
Here it is right here.
So let's just look at this picture we've got here.
The highly likely is doing a lot of heavy lifting
in this picture.
If you look at the three confirmed pieces,
this is just tiny part of the wing.
They take this flapper on and they like take a picture
that makes it look like it's gigantic, right?
But relative to the size of the plane, it's nothing, right?
So if you just take these three tiny pieces here,
we have not found a plane.
We have definitely not found enough of a plane to say that,
oh yes, like we know exactly what happened to it.
So why did this guy find this?
Why do you think this guy found this stuff?
I mean, I think that he is just a good hearted guy
that went out there and I think that people probably just
didn't look at the ocean.
They wouldn't, you know, there's debris all,
if you go along the beach, you find a ton of junk, right?
All along the shore there.
I think that people just didn't look or know that,
oh, we should probably look at this.
Like, cause a lot of debris too is just like a little
triangle, right?
It looks like just some trash that might have been there.
But it clearly is part of a Boeing 777, right?
A lot of it's like, yeah, it's clearly part of a plane
at least, and then maybe not necessarily a Boeing 777,
but some of it for sure, right?
And that's where I would say that, you know,
we shouldn't vilify this guy for sure.
I mean, unless we have better evidence
than what we know out there.
What is this?
All right, so I found something for you.
While most commonly found in shallow waters,
shallower waters, certain species of barnacles
can also thrive in deep sea environments,
including, it's so small, I can barely read it.
Including vents and cold seeps.
Yeah, hydrothermal vents.
Yeah, but so it seems that they mostly stick
to shallow waters in between the high and low tide areas.
Okay.
But this does say that some may form
in deeper depth, so it might just be that it has to be,
it's got to hang out like near the shore
in order for barnacles to pop up.
Right.
So it might be a moot point.
And how long after the plane crashed
did he find that stuff?
I think it was between a year and 18 months in general,
which is pretty long, right?
I mean, you would expect.
For barnacles, like for that many barnacles to grow?
Yeah, I don't, I mean,
we'd have to ask how long it would take
barnacle growth to happen.
But yeah, I've kind of,
the whole barnacle thing in general,
I think I've kind of,
I haven't looked in,
I haven't kind of harped on it very much
because I think that the debris can be consistent
with the event.
And even if it's not,
then okay, I'm also not really worried about it, right?
If it is happened to be from another plane,
then that opens up the door to any scenario that you want.
Well, if you followed that lead,
you might take you somewhere, right?
Like if you follow, if you're not,
I mean, if you followed like how,
like who would be responsible for putting that debris there?
Who was the guy who told him to go there?
I'd be like, have you talked to that guy?
No, I have not talked to him.
But again, I would say that that stuff's more
for people like Jeff Wise
or other people who think the plane was shot down
where they have to explain
why was this debris found over here?
For my scenario that I put forth with this fire
and this advanced technology event
that happens in the Nicobar Islands,
all that debris is completely consistent with my theories.
Right, but like what I'm trying to say is like,
that's so strange to me is that like people who,
people only want to investigate the evidence
that corresponds to or supports their own theory, right?
Like you say like Jeff Wise should look into it
because that supports his theory.
But like if I'm looking into it,
I want to go down every possible scenario
of how this theory can be supported,
how this theory can be supported,
how that theory can be supported.
Do one of those, you know, true crime yarn diagrams
and figure out every possible hole in this whole thing, right?
And like instead of saying like, for example,
that theory or if I was to really research
those parts of that plane and found this out,
well, that wouldn't support my theory.
So I'm not going to go there, right?
Then that's not what I'm doing.
I mean, as you just saw,
I've listed out the barnacle stuff
and you know, the other scenarios.
And I've looked at the Netflix documentary.
I think the Netflix documentary does the best job
of kind of litigating that.
And I read Jeff Wise's piece on the barnacle growth stuff.
So, but like the plane though,
like the guy who sent Blaine there,
I really want to talk to that.
Yeah, yeah, me too.
It's an interesting follow up for sure.
Yeah.
Okay, so where were we?
No, we were just kind of going into the debris side.
I think it might be a good time to look at the videos.
I don't know.
What do you think?
Can I, I need a bathroom break.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, go ahead.
Sure.
Take five.
And that was a, that was a good-
That's interesting.
Like, fuck man, who the fuck?
It's weird.
That guy's got some answers, bro.
He could.
Honestly, I was perfectly honest about my opinion on him.
Like, he just doesn't seem like,
people call him Indiana Jones.
People have tried to cast doubt on him.
And I remember when I first watched the documentary
before I even dug into this,
I thought it just doesn't seem like a spy, right?
Like, this is just some like 50, 60 year old guy
who's living in a foreign national-
Maybe not intentionally,
but he could be a useful idiot.
Yeah, yeah, definitely could be.
Yeah.
But again, like it, you know,
and I looked into all that, those angles early on.
And, you know, it works either way with my theory.
It's like, if it's fake, fine.
If it's not fake, fine.
And it's like, to your point,
it's like, what am I gonna find out?
Right?
If I find out that, okay, he did plant it, great.
Right?
It doesn't change anything about the theory anymore.
But if he did plant it, why did he plant it?
And who's responsible for him planting it?
And if you can find out that this agent or this officer,
somehow got him in touch with somebody
that made him able to plant it,
that goes back to the whole theory.
Like that goes, who's doing the cover-up?
Yeah, yeah.
Now you can reverse engineer your theory, right?
That's a good point.
I may have to make a note of that.
Cause, yeah, I mean, to me,
it's like what I think really happened is
US government throws a couple of pieces of debris
in the ocean, if you're going down that route,
and they don't care where it washes up, right?
Okay, wherever it washes up.
And then yeah, sure, maybe they contact him
and say, go look in the reunion island.
But the cover story is pretty easy there,
where it's like, oh, you just follow the,
the whatever water flows
and that's where you should go look, right?
That's how I think they came to that.
So it would be very, very difficult to prove anything.
I imagine there's,
I just don't think there's gonna be able to find like,
you know, proof that, you know,
there was something nefarious going on there.
All right.
That's why I think like going into the leaker
and stuff is much better line,
but again, even that's gonna be like all this stuff,
I think they're gonna have roadblock me,
no matter what I dig into.
Yeah, but like, yeah.
But like trying to dig into,
really dig into who was a part of the cover up,
every aspect of every cover up,
because that plain thing reeks of high,
to high heaven, the parts of it.
And if you could figure out who was responsible for
not only who the guy was who pointed him
to Madagascar and Reunion Island,
but who fucking cross-examined the motherfucker
who DM'd him and where he got that information, right?
I may have to reach out to him and see,
because I think that, yeah, maybe there's lead.
Because whoever pointed him in that direction,
well, you're now heading towards the direction
of who might be responsible for the cover up in general.
And that can fucking rework,
re-fucking develop your entire story.
Yeah, got it.
I mean, I don't know, that's just how I think.
No, let's think that's fair, for sure.
So yeah, that may be something we look into.
So would you wanna dig into the videos here?
What are we thinking?
Yeah, yeah, so, okay.
The videos, we kind of talked about the videos
a little bit in the beginning.
You recently talked about,
I think on Twitter, maybe a day or two ago,
there's a guy who you suspect is responsible
for leaking these classified videos of these planes.
And you submitted a Freedom of Information Act request
to the US government and it was denied.
Can you explain that?
Yeah, and I think one good point to bring up too
is that just as we haven't even looked at the videos yet,
it goes to show that you don't even really need the videos
to kind of expose this conspiracy and this cover up,
is that the official narrative breaks down
without even looking at the videos.
But when you start to look at the videos,
you can glean a lot more evidence
of what may have happened with this plane.
And that's what really starts to corroborate
a lot of the stuff that we've kind of uncovered here.
So when I was looking at these videos,
again, one of the first things I noticed
is it's not being filmed by a camera.
They're using an actual screen recording.
Mm-hmm, right.
They are, the assets that we see
are gonna be US military assets.
We see an MQ-1C gray eagle produced by General Atomics.
And then we're looking at what we think is the Sibir system,
which is a US system produced by Lockheed Martin
taking satellite data that's shooting down
and potentially producing a 3D battlefield space.
So this means that potentially the person
that would have leaked these videos
is gonna be a US military personnel.
So it's a Sibir system,
meaning they're remote desktoping and they're remote accessing
whatever computers have this data on them.
So you could essentially be in your living room
remoting into this thing and record it.
The only way to get it,
I mean, you wouldn't take a fucking camcorder
and hold it against your computer screen.
You would just do a screen record on your PC
and that would be filming it.
And when we look at the Sibir system,
this is pretty amazing.
With the busy fall season already in swing,
you might be looking for some wholesome,
convenient meals for those jam-packed days.
Factor, America's number one ready-to-eat meal kit
can help you fuel up fast.
With chef-prepared, dietitian-approved,
ready-to-eat meals delivered straight to your door.
It's a great way to save time, eat well,
and stay on track with your healthy lifestyle.
If you're like me and you're far too busy
to always make sure you're eating well,
that's where Factor comes in clutch.
You can skip that extra trip to the grocery store
as well as all the prepping, shopping, and cleaning
and still get all the flavor
and nutritional quality that you need.
Factor's fresh, never-frozen meals
are ready to go in just two minutes.
All you have to do is heat and enjoy
so you can get back to crushing your goals.
Round up your meals and replenish your snack supply
with an assortment of 45-plus add-ons,
including breakfast items,
like their delicious apple cinnamon pancakes,
bacon and cheddar egg bites,
and potato, bacon, and egg breakfast skillets.
Or for an easy wellness boost,
try refreshing beverage options
like cold-pressed juices, shakes, and smoothies.
Head on over to FactorMeals.com forward slash DJP50
and use code DJP50 to get 50% off.
That's code DJP50 at FactorMeals.com forward slash DJP50
to get 50% off.
Back to the show.
You can turn the volume up a little bit on it.
Oh, you want some?
Yeah, submission.
I mean, this part right here, I think, is the most telling.
So these satellites...
Can you full-screen it?
Yes, okay, cool.
On the far satellites here,
these are your geostationary satellites.
These are gonna be your satellites that don't move,
that are 40,000 kilometers away.
Early on, I thought that the video
could be from one of these,
people pointed out how far away it is.
It's like straight down.
You need the Hubble telescopes.
They actually do have Hubble telescopes,
presumably on these that are classified,
that's what people claim.
But they're gonna be looking straight down.
Our videos are looking at an angle.
And here you can see these millennia orbit satellites.
These are these oblong ones as well.
This is actually what we think the relay satellite
they've logged into is, NROL-22,
is a command satellite, most likely.
And due to having this orbit,
they sit around certain areas of the planet
where they have very good angles on the other satellites
to be able to communicate this data back and forth.
The third kind of satellite
is gonna be a low earth orbit satellite.
These ones that are not really pictured on here,
but they're gonna be very close to the earth here.
They circle around the earth every 90 minutes.
That's wild.
So how fast are they traveling?
Very fast.
I don't have the exact speed.
That's like what, that would be,
I'm guess roughly guessing 25, 30,000 miles per hour.
Like.
Yeah, I don't know off the top of my head,
but yeah, it's like over thousands of miles per hour.
They're going fast, right?
And but they're so low to the earth
that they can get potentially really good resolution.
But you'd have to like get it fast
because that is like insane speed.
And so that's why you need the cyber system, right?
So what's happening here
is these are all scanning all the time.
And when they're scanning,
they're building a computer program using all this data,
right?
And this explains.
Yeah, I said this earlier.
I said, if you want to induce schizophrenia in anybody,
just get them stoned and show them this video.
Yeah, that's why like I was saying that when I walk around,
I go and just wave up to the satellites.
Cause this also indicates
you might have real time video 3D playback, right?
Like this person didn't need to record this in real time.
They just log in later on and be like,
okay, pull up this location.
As long as you have a satellite there,
that's like the one of these low earth orbit ones,
you're going to have extremely good data mapping
of what's going on.
Right.
So what this cyber system is doing as well
is that it's useful for tracking missiles, boats,
planes, intelligence, and battlefield awareness.
The last one is very relevant
for what we're going to see in our videos,
because I think that what we're looking at
is a much bigger field of view
and that they've cropped it
so that they're only looking at the plane.
And essentially what this person is trying to do here
is look at this again, Jesus.
You know, the person is trying to show us
what happened to MH370 without giving away
other information that might be other assets
that might be available.
They actually even crop out the drone.
We don't see the drone in the first video either.
And they released the satellite video first.
Now look at this part.
We never forget who we're working for,
from Lockheed Martin.
That's beautiful.
That's ominous, right?
We never forget who we're looking for.
By the way, satellites in the low earth orbit
seem to travel at 17,500 miles per hour.
17,500 miles per hour.
So they're moving.
And we have just a replay here,
which I guess now is probably a good time to show it.
How fast does the earth spin, Steven?
Is it a, I think it's like a thousand miles per hour?
Gosh, I thought it was three,
I'll look it up.
So we actually have,
we went ahead and found a satellite
that was right in the right area.
So we looked at like every satellite that's out there.
We find these twin satellites
called the Naval Ocean Surveillance Satellites.
Who found this?
We have a satellite expert
that was with the organization I started, MH370X.
And they were using amateur trajectories
to recreate every possible satellite.
And when we came across this,
this is where actually,
initially I thought it was in the South Indian Ocean.
We were actually going on all this ping data thinking,
oh, it must have crashed in the South Indian Ocean.
The problem was the time made no sense.
We can see here, it's like 1830,
these satellites are looking over
the South Indian Ocean here.
But this plane is crashing supposedly at like 8 a.m.,
which is like four hours after this.
And we checked, okay, if it comes back around,
we'll be there, it's never in the right location.
And then we said, okay, well,
what if the coordinates don't have a minus sign?
Because we are suspecting they must be a hidden minus sign
that we couldn't see in these coordinates
from the satellite video.
Well, if they don't, and we just simplify the situation,
then it's in the Nicobar Islands.
Then the location of our videos
is actually in the exact location
where the official narrative says this plane
turned into the South Indian Ocean.
And when you look at this here,
you can look down and say, oh, well, 1840, right about now,
we're looking right down at it.
And then we think that our 3D battlefield space
is actually like multiple times wider than this.
We just took an estimate of 1,000 kilometers.
It could potentially be like 4,000 kilometers.
Remember that Sibir's picture we looked at
how wide those scans were?
This could be much wider than this bubble that we see here.
So these two satellites got a ping around this time?
Or these coordinates match up with the video?
Yeah, these coordinates are the videos.
And we think this time right here, 1840,
is not only corroborated by these satellites
being here in the right location,
there's a witness on a boat,
like right where my mouse cursor is down here.
And she sees the plane glowing orange around 1840 UTC
at the same time that these satellites are up here.
And is she mentioning the documentary on Netflix?
She is not, as far as I know.
Yeah, and she sees this plane glowing orange.
The reason why a plane would glow orange
is that the halon gas from the fire extinguishing devices
releases bromine, which is halogen.
If you look at the picture of what she said
her recreation of the plane looked like,
it looks just like a halogen lamp.
So this was the first indication
that we might be dealing with a fire scenario
where these people are battling this fire for an hour
before it gets to this location from when it goes dark.
And now we've got corroboration of this satellite here
in the same spot as well.
Okay, so let's talk about this lady for a second.
Yeah, sure.
How did you discover her?
She wasn't on the Netflix documentary.
Where did you first learn about her?
Yeah, so I started digging into witnesses
after we found these satellites.
And I said, okay, well, this is the location.
This seems to be the time.
What else is out there?
So then I dig around and I find the witness, Catherine T.
Turns out she's got a very well-documented sighting.
From my notes here, there was two blog posts at least
as well as some forum that you answered
a bunch of questions on.
Every, all of the official investigators have talked to her
and they were able to recreate her sighting
based on the automatic GPS.
All the official investigators talked to her,
but yet she was never mentioned in the documentary.
And they just dismiss her sighting
for whatever reason I can't tell.
This is the official flight path as well at this point.
So like the idea that she didn't see the plane
for some reason is absurd.
Like she had to have seen the plane.
So I actually got in touch with her.
I did an interview with her just over the phone
where I was talking to her answering questions.
Did you record it?
I did not record it, no.
But I did, I wrote down the questions and answers.
You know, at the time I didn't really feel like it.
I wasn't a podcaster at that point.
Like now I probably would have had her on video, right?
But I did ask her some questions.
She did not see the plane disappear.
She did not see the orbs in the plane
in the video that we're gonna show.
She actually went into the boat,
probably at the wrong possible time
to miss the main event of our videos,
which is a little bit suspicious.
But she says that she went to put the kettle on.
British people tell me that's the thing
that British people do when they're making tea.
What time was this again?
The time that she told me was 1840 UTC.
If you go look at that satellite picture
we were just looking at,
that's the same time the satellite
was looking right over the plane.
Now what is that?
What time is that?
That's 240 AM Malaysian time.
So she's having tea in crumpets at two in the morning.
Well, she's on watch, right?
On the boat.
So when you're on these boats as well,
you lose track of time.
Right, right, right, right.
So they had to recreate the time
based on the GPS.
Because you lose track of what day it is.
The time is, she just knows it's pitch black.
The moon is not up.
And we checked that as well.
Moon's not up, sun's not up.
No moon.
No moon, no sun.
She's on a glowing orange plane with no lights on it.
I mean, I would probably wonder about,
am I, what am I seeing here, right?
And she didn't know what she was seeing at first.
Ved first she thinks it's a missile
then she sees the side of it and she realizes,
oh no, this is a passenger plane, right?
Or at that time she didn't necessarily say
it was a passenger plane, but she knew it was a plane.
She said that she felt pressured by the experts
to change her time when the experts had talked to her
to like fit their various narratives supposedly.
She got pressured by the experts.
That's a direct quote from her
when I talked to her personally, which I was like,
ah, I got to turn her back on.
Oh, dude.
There's a button.
This is the case with all technology.
Haven't been showing a lot of videos,
but I think the ones I've shown have been pretty good, right?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
We're doing great, man, we're cooking.
Alrighty.
Are we rolling?
We are.
That was fucking spooky.
That was the first time we've ever lost power
in our entire building mid-podcast.
Wow, what a coincidence.
You know, there's just so many coincidences
that keep happening in this case.
Oh my God, that was crazy.
So now we're back up, we're running on generator power
and we don't have any AC.
So if me and Ashton start to get a little shiny,
it's just because we don't have any AC in here
and we're sweating our asses off, so.
Okay, what were you just talking about, Kate?
Yeah, the witness was right there in the Nicobar Islands
where we have our satellite looking down.
The plane, everybody agrees the plane was here at this point.
She sees this glowing orange plane
consistent with potentially the crew battling a fire
for about an hour, hour and 20 minutes.
She actually sees this plane flying low.
She says she sees two other planes
that are at cruising altitude with lights on,
but the glowing plane was at a low altitude.
The recreation of this plane puts it around 10,000 feet,
maybe a little bit lower.
Well, sorry.
For people that may hear
the giant diesel generator going in the background,
I can faintly hear it, but I apologize
if it's really ruining your podcast experience right now,
but this is the only way we're gonna record this right now.
We have a diesel generator keeping us alive, so.
Anyways, it's already interrupted.
Oh yeah, no problem.
So she sees this plane flying low
and she actually sees it descend
from the beginning of her sighting to the end of her sighting,
which is estimated to be five or 10 minutes.
The direction of travel is consistent
with where the plane would have been coming from.
As well as potentially our videos as well.
When we look at these videos in a few minutes,
you're gonna see this plane
is making a counterclockwise rotation,
which is consistent with the direction of travel
that was recreated from her automatic GPS as well.
So again, actually what she sees also,
not only the glowing orange plane,
but she sees black smoke coming out of the back of this plane,
which would be consistent with lithium ion battery fires
that they have this very dark smoke
that come from them as well.
We think that this-
But it's pitch black, no moon or nothing.
You can see the dark smoke?
Yeah, well, I think that generally even at night,
if their plane is glowing to some degree,
you're gonna see this smoke, right?
Kind of just like the silhouette potentially of it.
So you would probably see the contrast
between the sky or something like that,
even with the stars out.
So, you know, how dark it is,
you could probably argue, you know, how can you tell?
But I think the matter is that you can see like thick,
thickness as opposed to like exhaust,
which would be, you know, just very transparent, right?
And so, yeah, she can see parts of that.
I actually asked her, you know,
I took a picture of the thermal from the thermal video
and I had overlaid over the plane
and I said, is this what you saw?
And she responded back, well, it wasn't green.
And I've laughed because it made it realize
that she hadn't been following the case at all,
at least in my case.
She hadn't seen the green video.
She had no idea that it was even a thermal video.
And so she's like, oh, it was orange.
And I'm like, oh, okay, well, what about just the shape?
Oh, well, the shape matches.
Rich would indicate that, yeah,
she did end up seeing MH370.
She didn't see any fire though,
which is interesting because in the thermal as well,
we see a heat signature near these exhaust ports
where the AC units are.
But we don't see like active fire
in the plane in the thermal.
It looks very consistent with other thermal plane images
and videos that are on the internet.
And part of that reason would be that
the fires contained in these cargo bays
that are built to withstand fires
from up to I think 1700 degrees Fahrenheit
or 900 degrees Celsius.
So you would imagine that what's happening here
if you've seen these lithium-ion battery fires
is that they ignite, they explode,
and then they're raging and you put them out
and then they come back up again.
So most likely these crew are like fighting this fire
with every fire suppression device available.
They can deploy manual ones and go in there and fight them.
But this is a very desperate situation
where it's just gonna keep lighting up.
You need to get on the ground.
So what is the biggest criticism towards Kate?
Honestly, I'm not really sure the biggest criticism.
You know, in the last podcast I was on,
like they criticized whether or not
you could see the cockpit window.
Julian?
Yeah, but I would argue that, you know,
you see a plane flying, you can see the cockpit.
It's not a matter of like she's seeing the pilots
in the cockpit.
It's just a matter of like she can see
the front of the plane, right?
So it might be a little bit of a misrepresentation.
So what was, so you were claiming that she claimed
that she could see the cockpit from how far away?
Roughly?
Yeah, tell me exactly, right?
Did you have any speculation as to how far
the plane would have been?
Not really, what I can say is that the plane
went from the east around her boat to the north
and then came around the back of her boat
as it went north to south.
And this is part of in her original reporting
of when this happened.
So I imagine what would have happened here is that
she's on her boat, she's looking to the east,
sees this plane, she sees it coming to the side
while it's flying to the north,
and then it comes back and turns kind of towards her,
most likely and goes around behind the boat,
and that's where she probably looks up
and she can see the cockpit area of it,
probably make out the shape of it
and see the windows, I imagine.
So you're estimating it would have been what,
within a thousand feet of her?
Recreation says it got potentially as low as 2,000 feet,
which is pretty low and it's gonna actually be consistent
with our videos where we see these cumulus clouds
that only form between 1,000 and 5,000 feet.
Oh, so there was, okay, there was clouds that night,
it wasn't perfectly clear.
She doesn't remember the clouds either,
but she didn't know whether or not there could be,
and it was nighttime, so maybe she couldn't make them out
very well, it's, again, really hard to tell.
So what exactly did she, I'm trying to understand
like why, what exactly did she say
that she saw in the cockpit?
Oh, she didn't really say that she saw anything in general,
but she did say that she saw some illumination,
which to me indicates that these batteries,
half of them were in the front cargo base
and half of them were in the back.
Now if these, this fire would have made
the electronics go out and made the plane go dark,
then I would argue from talking to people
who are pilots and engineers,
that the most likely area would have been the front,
because that's where a lot of the electronics bays are.
So if there's an explosion that happens there,
that's the most likely spot to disable a lot of electronics.
And if that's the case and there's a fire
even in those cargo bays that they're battling
and this breaking containment,
then I could imagine there'd be an illumination.
This is just deduction and somewhat speculative,
but that's kind of the impression I got
from talking to Kate is that, huh,
maybe that there was some illumination
that allowed her to see the cockpit more clearly.
Otherwise, I would imagine in the nighttime,
you're not gonna really be able to make anything out.
So I think that, oh, the biggest thing against her sight,
excuse me, is that they didn't have the radio on,
so she didn't hear any SOS calls
and she didn't think to go check the radio.
In my mind, like you see this plane coming down, right?
I'm gonna go to the radio and be like,
okay, is there an SOS for this, right?
Yeah.
But you know, it's the middle of the night,
she's probably exhausted.
She was in an emotional situation
where she was in a fight with her husband at the time.
So I guess I can understand,
like I don't wanna put myself in someone else's shoes
and really like criticize their actions too much.
But if I had to, that's what I would say,
seemed like the weirdest thing in general.
She didn't see any other boats in the area,
but what you said is if their lights weren't on,
she probably wouldn't have been able to see them
because it's pitch black.
So we can't really rule out
that there was no boats in the area.
Was she anchored?
No, they're not anchored.
So this boat actually starts to drift.
Well, these boats,
they have to have navigation lights on them at night.
Yeah, I mean, so her boat, yeah.
But like, if we're talking about like
some operation that's going down, right?
Oh, you're like a black op or something.
Yeah, like if there's some other boat,
like, so what I was trying to figure out
is when we look at these videos, we see these orbs.
And one of these orbs actually skims across the water
and shoots up through the cloud.
And so when we look at that, I kept wondering,
well, can we figure out where this was deployed from?
Was it deployed from a boat?
Is it deployed from a plane?
You know, where is it getting deployed from?
So that's why I asked her about,
she's seen any other boats,
but she didn't see any other boats.
So at least they didn't have lights on
if they were in the area or there weren't any.
She didn't hear any SOS calls.
She went and put that kettle on
and she comes back out, the plane's gone.
So all she sees after that is this orange halo
that she described as like an oil rig in the sky.
I don't know, that's kind of a weird comparison,
but I think what she's saying there is
it's showing like a weird shape now at that point.
It's not looking like a plane anymore.
Now she just sees this orange, maybe afterglow, potentially,
which is pretty unusual,
but maybe it's the situation where this plane disappears
and now you've got the halon gas still
just kind of spreading out throughout the atmosphere.
That's getting pretty speculative,
but that's just from her sighting.
So wait, wait, I got a question.
Yeah.
So this plane was 2,000 feet away from her
and that's how she could see kind of the cockpit-ish area.
That's the altitude.
So 2,000 feet of buffer?
We don't really know exactly how far away, right?
The ways that she described the images,
and I think I have a couple of them that I can pull up.
Okay.
I think this is one from when it's like
probably from the east side, this one.
This right here is her most accurate recreation.
I don't think I can full screen this,
but when you look at this picture here,
you can see this is what she says
she saw what she looked like
and this is actually pretty similar
to what she described to me.
She sees this orange glow
and she sees this like kind of hazy effect.
She said it was about five or 10% outside of the plane.
I don't know how you kind of calculate percentages,
but so this is kind of what she's looking at.
And again, you can kind of see, even in this picture,
you see this like light coming out of the cockpit here.
There's like a dot.
It's like a dot, right?
So you're not going to see much.
This is pretty far away, right?
But it's close enough that, you know,
you can make out that it's a plane.
That's pretty close.
That's like a plane coming in for a landing or something.
That's what she thought was happening directly.
She thought that this plane might be trying
to land in the ocean, which is interesting
because we found an intercepted SOS communication.
But real quick, here's a halogen lamp.
Looks pretty damn similar to me.
Wish this was bigger.
Maybe I can zoom in.
Was there more to your question, Steve?
Yeah, I was just going to say, if it was that close,
if it was close enough that you could see even like the nose
or the cockpit or the fire coming off of it,
that it would probably make a sound.
And wouldn't that have woken up?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, interestingly enough, she didn't see any fire.
She says that she didn't see any fire.
She all saw that smoke.
And she said she didn't hear any abnormal sounds.
I asked her as well.
Do you hear any sounds from this?
And that part I'm not sure about.
I thought about it a lot.
But when you see planes in the sky,
they kind of have to go over you
and then you kind of hear the sound later, right?
Because it's so far away.
The sound will have to travel to you.
So not sure one way or another on that.
My guess would be that this plane
never got super close to the boat.
But again, just a guess.
And it's hard dealing with witnesses too,
especially when it's that long ago,
almost 10 years ago, and people's memories change.
So that's why you really need corroborating accounts
from different people.
And I think that's how people were able to discredit her.
Is that witnesses in general memories are very unreliable,
even right afterwards.
But some of the stuff that she says here
is very specific, right?
Like this orange glowing planes,
how are you misremembering an orange glowing plane, right?
So some of it I find very credible.
Other parts of it, I think, okay,
it may not be as accurate.
But the stuff like the recreation of the GPS
and the travel, I think is probably very similar
to what it really would have been
just because there we're looking at hard data, right?
It's not something that you can,
it's not a matter of remembering it or not.
You're talking about the GPS on the videos?
No, the GPS of actually her boat.
Her boat's actually doing automatic GPS as well.
Got it.
And so that's how they're able to recreate the travel
of her sighting.
I don't think I have an image of that unfortunately, but yeah.
So her sighting in general is pretty big
because here's another flight path here
and this was actually from Victor of the independent group.
He was actually able to confirm
that our satellite was in the right location.
That's what this blue line is going across the top.
This is actually the independent group's
official travel of the plane,
which is the same as what we expect
except for you get to this part on 1840.
And look, they retimed her sighting to 1853.
They were trying to change the time here.
You can see there's even a point for the video coordinates,
which again indicates that we have this large field
of view around the coordinates.
And then here, they just say, oh, it made this turn
and just goes straight out into the Indian Ocean, right?
My counter argument is the videos that we're gonna see
end right here, where KT is,
within probably less than five minutes of this sighting
at 1840 UTC, one way or another.
And then instead of this plane going down
to the South Indian Ocean,
it does whatever it does in our videos.
Going into the official narrative as well,
this Malaysian minister of defense,
you watched it earlier with this interview with this guy.
This is the most sketchy interview that I've ever seen.
Yeah, I mean, the lady was definitely hostile.
She was definitely trying to come at him.
Oh yeah, I mean, I would be too, based on the responses.
He was on the defense clearly from the jump.
Like he wouldn't answer whether or not
that even what time he heard the plane disappear.
So he won't even answer the question of what time
this plane went missing.
So later on in this interview,
I think I snipped it about five minutes in.
He admits that they knew the plane was...
Powers back?
Oh yeah, yeah, you can, will we lose power again?
Yeah, for like a minute, why switch it out?
Okay.
Turn the generator off.
We're gonna have three cuts, Steve.
Yeah.
No, that's fine, I appreciate it, man.
All right, I'm gonna kill the recording myself.
I'm gonna look for the spot anyway.
Let's go into the
the lithium ion battery fires.
So what evidence,
what was the evidence that pointed out to you
that there were lithium ion battery fires?
How did you know that there were lithium ion batteries
and this many batteries on the plane in the first place?
Yeah, well, it became public knowledge afterwards.
People looked into the manifests.
I think even Florence of Changi was one person
that really dug into the manifests.
And the thing that stuck out to me right away
from this investigation,
221 kilograms of lithium ion batteries.
So we looked through the ATSB report,
which is the Australian Safety Transmit Bureau,
and we found out these lithium ion batteries
were put together that same day.
They have to package them or what have you
and put them on the plane.
They looked like they were not packaged safely at all.
They almost look like improvised explosive devices
when you look at pictures of them.
They like put them between some ceramic
and they're kind of planted together.
They were not scanned twice.
So back in 2014, we did not know the dangers
of lithium ion batteries as well.
Now, if you go to the post office, they ask you about it.
You go on an airplane, they always ask you
if there's any in your checked bags.
If you Google the FAA's website about lithium ion batteries,
you actually find an image that shows
that they're happening over once per week
in domestic flights even after they've outlawed them
in the cargo bays of passenger planes.
At least in terms of cargo at least.
And they did that in 2015,
the year after this incident happened.
So right away, I was honed in on this,
but it wasn't until we went through that evidence
that we just talked about with KT,
with the videos showing smoke coming out of the back
of them, which we'll show in a minute.
So wait, so what's the rules
for bringing lithium ion batteries on an airplane?
Yeah, you can't have them in your checked bags
as far as you have to bring them up above, right?
In your actual computer, et cetera.
Well, I've traveled with loads of camera gear before,
and I don't remember ever having to take the camera batteries
out of the Pelican cases before checking them.
Yeah, so I'm a videographer,
and so I've traveled on planes quite a bit,
and the rule is you have to,
and if it's a lithium ion battery,
it's got to be in the cabin.
So a check bag, I'm sorry, not a check,
you got to bring it with you.
A carry on.
A carry on, yeah, and it has to be under 90,
watt hours, if it's over 90 watt hours.
So if it's a really big battery,
essentially they won't let you carry it on.
Okay, got it, and it's in the cabin
so they can extinguish it if it ignites.
Yeah, and there was a video just last week
where that had happened,
and you see these people pouring water on it desperately
because the lithium ion batteries,
they're like trick candles when you put it out,
they just keep lighting back up.
These missed two security screenings,
so that was a big red flag for me as well.
These cargo compartments are designed
to withstand these high heats,
but again, you're not gonna be able
to keep this fire out forever.
So I imagine what would have happened here
is you've got all your crew trying to keep it out.
We have a source that I have corroborated,
looked into their history,
that has actually testified about the dangers of these,
they actually tried to get the government
to take them more seriously back in like 2012 and 2013,
that's willing to testify that you could keep this fire
under bay for over an hour,
and that yes, the plane would potentially glow orange.
So the theory here is this lithium ion battery fire
could potentially escape from the cargo compartment as well
if it's not being effectively managed.
The fire suppression devices cannot keep it under bay,
which is these halon fire suppression devices.
We see a heat signature in our thermal
that's right near where the landing gear is,
that's a very oblong kind of heat signature
that kind of changes.
This is actually right where there are two AC exhaust ports.
So the thought is you've got this smoke and heat
traveling throughout the plane
and it's getting poured out through these exhaust ports
right near where the landing gear are.
Well, also in the other thermal images of airplanes,
though, it's hot in the same spot.
Yeah, well that part,
we don't really have any thermal images
of planes like in the sky.
I have one, we found one earlier, remember?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, let's pull that up and take a look as well.
And it could be that yes,
that might be a spot where they're at, right?
But I have not seen any images from the sky.
We've seen ones that are potentially on the ground
from taking off, which is quite a bit different
because what happens as well is that the landing gear heats up
when you take off from all the friction.
And so one of the theories too is if the thermal,
the lithium ion batteries were too close to the landing gear
and this was 100 degrees that night,
they might have heated up and caused an issue.
Now, as well with the pictures,
like what we're looking at here.
It's also like impossible to film
with a thermal camera at 30,000 feet.
Yeah, we just don't have anything really comparable, right?
Where you have like another drone footage
in this thermalized color here.
Okay, so we're looking at.
Like these are all taking off.
We're looking at a split screen side by side.
One is regular.
The other one is thermal.
Of a plane getting ready to take off.
Yeah, and so again, these are situations
we're not gonna be super comparable
because when you're at thousands of feet in the air,
the temperature difference is quite significant.
But let's look at it anyway.
And the other part too is we don't know
the custom heat signatures that were set on the videos.
But again, you can see that it's this heat signature
right where the landing gear are here.
Well, it's the whole back.
If we can pause it, Steve, a little bit further back.
Oh, it'll, yeah, let it go.
It's gonna show the full screen.
So now it's showing the full screen
of the thermal view of this airplane taking off right now.
And you can see like the sky is dark blue at the top.
The road before the runway is red,
meaning that's the hottest part.
And you can, what you're saying is
you can change the colors.
Yeah, and so the fact that we see the plane
is the same temperature as the ground there.
It's hot in the bottom.
Yeah, but it's not that hot, right?
The temperatures we're dealing with are,
the fire, the temperature that we see coming out of our plane
is the same temperature as the engine inside the engine,
not just the outside of the engine like here.
All right, pause it right there.
But the inside.
So right there, the engines look about
to be the same temperature as like the back half,
the back bottom half of the airplane.
So do you think that's accurate?
I mean, I'm sure this picture is accurate,
but I don't think it matches to ours, unfortunately.
Now maybe similar.
And when we look at our thermal video,
we'll be able to see some differences
is that we don't see a heat signature around the engine.
We actually only see the heat signature in the location
where these jet engines are producing
the highest amount of temperature.
So we'll compare this here in a minute to the thermals
that we're looking at.
The back half of both of these turbines
seems to be the hottest part.
The front is not so much.
The front is colder.
Yeah, for sure.
And you're saying from the thermal images
of the MH370 flight, the engines are not bright hot like this.
No, only specifically in the spot
where you see the very hot air coming from them.
And it has to do with the way those engines operate
where they don't, it's not like lighting a candle
and seeing it go up.
It's like they actually like focus in on a specific point.
I'm not an engineer, but that's how it was described to me.
Steven, can you try to find any kind of thermal photos
of airplanes that are clearer than this?
I know there's some on Google we found,
but I know there's some on Google images.
And so, and actually I'll just pull up an image
while we're, if we're gonna compare as well.
Okay.
I think I have it.
Oh, well, looky there.
That was a fast find.
Oh, look at that.
Yeah, yeah.
And actually that's one of the pictures
that I've used before as well.
That one's taken off as well right there,
where the reason why you have that jet that's so far,
that heat signature there is because it's so low to the ground.
On a plane video that's gonna be in the sky,
you're not gonna have
that very elongated heat signature anymore.
It almost looks like it's fucking like illustrated.
Like it looks too so perfect.
It is so looking.
Yeah, it doesn't.
Yeah, it barely even looks real on this.
No, it doesn't.
It looks like a fucking, someone drew it.
But you see that there's no heat signature there
where the landing gear is, right?
And there's no heat signature of this heat point
out of the exhaust ports here.
Are there any more, Steve?
But I found a photographer that had like a.
That's one that we found as well.
Yeah, there's a photographer who did a whole,
you get to zoom out so you can see your whole.
Although maybe those are the heat ports there
on that particular plane, not sure.
But it was pretty.
Look at that one.
Decent detail.
Tyrone Turner, that's the guy.
Yeah, and these are people who are taking pictures
while they're taking off.
Son of a bitch.
Yeah, these are on National Geographic's website.
You're gonna have to find the Google image.
But if you compare it to, if you.
Just go to his website.
Go to Tyrone Turner Photography.
And he has at least like five photos, I think.
But this will be good to compare with.
There you go.
Photo, F-O-T-O, enter.
Scroll down.
There you go.
Oh, he's got himself a little thermal camera.
That, okay, so I can tell, ooh.
Oh, that's cool.
That one's actually probably one of the best
to compare to, I'd imagine.
That one's kind of blurry, it looks like.
Yeah.
It looks like.
The whole bottom top.
You have to keep in mind that these thermal settings
are customized, right?
So you don't know the ranges.
So it's very hard to compare here in general.
And this is one that's taking off as well.
But you can see that this, that's probably the best.
Look at that right underneath.
Where you can kind of see this heat coming off
the bottom of the plane.
That would probably be the closest comparison
that we're going to be able to find
to what we see in our video as well.
So the video has like a blue body
with red jets coming out of it.
And this might have been manipulated, honestly.
Like, I don't know if that's post-processing or not,
but that's the same idea for sure.
Yeah, they all look a little different.
But I mean, you can definitely see something red hot
coming out of the bottom of the plane
disconnected from the engines themselves.
And that might be what you were saying.
That might be the heat exhaust.
Yeah.
So yeah, if you flip over to the image that I have,
then you can kind of compare to what ours
would look like in flight.
Now, what we've done here is we've superimposed
this thermal over a picture of actually MH370 taking off.
Who superimposed it?
Reddit has, the community.
So, and this has been kind of resized in any way.
This has simply just been angled to match over.
So the thermal is not of a plane taking off.
It's from our videos in the sky.
But you can see this elongated heat signature
at the same location here where you see those landing gear.
And that was exactly, that almost looks identical
to what we just looked at from that guy Tyrone Turner.
In a similar location for sure.
But the color settings are going to be a little different, right?
We don't see this engine shooting this hot,
like very elongated heat coming off the back of it, right?
But also, the thermal that they took from the thing in flight,
that it's not going to be using the same amount of power
as it uses when it takes off.
When it takes off, the engines exert way more energy.
Yeah, maybe.
I'm not an expert on that.
So I can't say, right?
You're redlining them when you're taking off, right?
You're going your full throttle.
And then when you're at cruising altitude,
or maybe not even cruising out, maybe like lower altitude,
whatever, you can pull back on that throttle a little bit.
Yeah, I'm sure, again, I'm not a pilot, so I can't say.
But all I can say here is that whatever heat signature
we're seeing here with these color settings
is showing a similar level of temperature
to the inner part of this engine here.
And this is, again, at an altitude.
So when you're at a higher altitude, of course,
it's much cooler than when you're at near the ground as well.
In addition, in this picture, you can actually see the smoke
coming out of the back of the plane here.
And we can see the heat signature from this smoke
that doesn't line up with the engine.
So this is going to be another indication in the thermal,
as well, that we can see the smoke coming out of the back,
that most likely it's coming from these exhaust ports
coming out here.
So to me, that's some of the strongest evidence
for why we're seeing a fire.
But again, there's more.
Altitude's too low in our videos for contrails.
Contrails only form at 30,000 feet or above,
which indicates that we're not looking at contrails
in our videos.
We can see these cumulus clouds.
What are contrails?
What specifically, how do contrails form?
Yeah, they form because of the atmosphere and the temperature
changes in the atmosphere.
And I would say I'm not an expert on contrails either,
other than when we Google it, we can find that they do.
Yeah, I've got to say, it's for people listening,
like the R are back and forth how we're analyzing this.
We're kind of really, like you said
in the beginning of this podcast,
you've only been looking into this for two or three months.
It's not like you spent 10 years researching this,
interviewing people, and you haven't interviewed dozens
and dozens of people in person and spent hours with them.
You're literally doing this in real time.
And you're going on podcasts like mine and like Julian's.
And you're literally trying to sort through all this
in real time and crowdsourcing it with people
who are maybe leaving comments or sending you emails
or whatever.
So it's important that we try to break this down
and analyze it as hard as we can.
Yeah, and I'm not a pilot or an engineer either,
though I do have pilots and engineers given their opinions
and trying to explain these types of things
in the most detail they can,
but it's a lot, we don't have a lot of frame
or reference for a lot of this either.
Like we just, we couldn't find even a thermal video,
something in the sky either.
So it's very tough to come up with a really accurate
for sure comparisons.
What we can say is that there's definitely exhaust ports
in those locations where we see those heat signatures.
And it does look like there's smoke coming out the back
due to the fact that these contrails
would only form at high altitudes.
Have you ever had a conversation
with a commercial airline pilot?
Yeah, I think that several people in my DMs
have reached out to me.
I've had people in my emails reach out to me as well.
I mean, have you gone like out of your way
to be like find somebody, like you doing the outreach
to somebody who maybe isn't online,
engaged in Twitter or Reddit?
Because I feel like there's a big difference there.
Yeah, not really other than maybe Jeff Wise
if you were to count, right?
But I haven't dug into like a lot
of the technical parts there.
There hasn't been any particular part
where I've needed to go and ask
that particular information yet.
But if so it comes up, then yeah, absolutely I would.
So in addition to this as well,
I think I pointed out that from the FAA,
there's more than one lithium ion battery fire per week
in the United States domestic flights.
And this is not in the cargo bay.
This is like up in the passenger area.
So it goes to show these are very common events
that seem to happen.
I mean, I hope they don't happen on my plane.
But the fire event is also corroborated
by every witness so far is that we've got KT
who sees this playing low in orange.
And that's when I went back and looked
at all the other witnesses.
And I started to realize that if you look
at the flight path, all the witnesses events
actually line up towards a situation
where what we're looking at is a lithium ion battery fire.
So I'll go ahead and pull this up real quick.
I think it's right here, plane animation.
So this is gonna be a recreation
that was created by Chris of the Nazi Deep Podcast.
This plane takes off again, 1842 UTC.
Last communication is at 1719 UTC
where they say good night Malaysian Airlines Flight 370.
And that's right after they exited the Malaysian airspace.
Yeah, this is in this weak point as well
which would maybe point to there being some type
of espionage or hijacking scenario at play.
It may also just been that's the part,
the point where the batteries ignited.
We don't know if this was accidental event
or if this was an intentional event,
but we do know there's 221 kilograms of lithium ion batteries.
It's almost 500 pounds of them.
They were potentially unsafely packaged.
So we think that at 1721 UTC,
this is when the batteries explode.
This is when Mike McKay is on an oil rig 300 miles away.
He sees this plane low on the horizon.
And this is in the South China Sea.
Yeah, on an oil rig there.
This is probably at exactly the maximum distance
that you'd be able to see this plane in clear skies.
At least according to chat GPT,
the maximum range is about 310 miles.
But there were clouds, we know.
Yes, but it just rained.
So these clouds that we were talking about
are actually rain clouds.
You know, the rain that we were talking about
or the clouds that we were talking about
is the Nicobar Islands, which is over here on the West.
Where we're talking about the clouds
and the videos is not over here.
So I don't know if there were,
he says it was clear.
If there was rain, there was definitely clouds
because rain has to come from clouds.
So you have to realize, I've lived in Singapore.
The rain is kind of like what you have here
where it can come and go very quickly.
So it's not like necessarily a situation
where it's just gonna rain all day and be cloudy all day.
Like maybe in the Midwest or something else.
This rain can come and go.
So just because it rained earlier
doesn't mean that certainly it's gonna be clouds,
it's not gonna be visible.
Right, but you agree that rain does come from clouds.
And if it was raining, there's a very high possibility
that there were clouds in the area.
Certainly could be.
His sighting is highly credible.
He saw this plane at a low altitude.
And really the only question about it
is whether he saw it crash.
And his sighting in his email right a day or so later,
he says lines up with everything where the plane was.
He saw it on fire for about 10 seconds.
And then he saw it go away.
He's gonna see it low on the horizon.
Because again, he's looking at probably
about the maximum distance you'd be able to see the plane
with the curvature of the earth.
It's gonna look like it's actually near the water.
But it's actually 35,000 feet at cruising altitude.
So this situation here,
that's probably why he thought it crashed.
Because he's seen it when his perspective
looks like it's low to the water.
And he actually corrects this later on,
stands by a statement even years later
and says that no, he didn't see it crash.
He was misreported.
Is that he thought it must have crashed
due to it being on fire.
But if it can withstand this fire situation.
But he thought it must have crashed
even though this was before he saw the reporting
that the plane would just,
well, easy for you to say.
Before he saw the reporting that the plane disappeared.
Yeah, in terms of that,
he would have probably heard about the plane disappearing
because that happened like the next day
we heard about it, right?
And interesting fact about that as well,
the time that they initially reported the plane
being lost contact, 1840 UTC.
This is the same time of our witness seeing it down here,
the same time as our videos.
That was changed later on to what we see here
where it says 1822 UTC.
And how did you verify that the human eye
could see in an airplane on fire from 300 miles away?
I'd use chatGPT, AI.
Like a lot of us use these things.
ChatGPT said that.
Yes, it did.
Okay, Steven, we have chatGPT, right?
Yeah, ask chatGPT how far you can see
from 35,000 feet on a clear night.
How far you can see from 35,000 feet?
Or however you want to phrase it.
You kind of have to phrase it however you want.
Now, if you can see one way, you can see the other, right?
Well, on a clear night, we don't know for sure
if it was clear.
No, he says it was clear in his sighting.
Even though it was raining.
He says it was clear because it had rained earlier.
Because it rained earlier.
And when after it rains, that's generally
how your skies get to be the most clear.
Right, but they may not be,
there may be clouds between you and 300 miles.
Well, he didn't report them if so.
So we have to kind of go with what the witnesses report
instead of adding our own narratives to the situation.
So yeah, so find out if you can see,
because like I'll verify that you can see
the Falcon 9 SpaceX rocket launch from Cape Canaveral,
Florida, which is less than 300 miles
from where we're sitting right now.
I can, we can watch it.
I can watch from my backyard.
It launches to the east,
meaning it's going farther away from where we are now.
But it's also a Falcon 9 rocket.
And it has to be a very clear night.
There can't be any clouds.
And I imagine that the flames,
the flames coming out of the launcher of a Falcon 9
are a lot brighter than a lithium ion battery fire.
Okay, what does it say?
You're gonna have to add the altitude to this
to make it work.
Well, I've dug pretty hard into it as well.
Oh, okay, sure.
It says 30 to 40,000 feet
whenever airliners typically cruise.
Yep.
Yeah, it's too small for me to read.
I estimate on a clear night,
you might be able to see a commercial airliner's lights
from a distance of up to 25 miles away.
Possibly more of this distance can vary
based on the factors mentioned above,
which is altitude and...
Yeah, so you have to refine...
So it says 25 miles away?
You have to refine that search.
I had the same issues.
So if you ask it how far away can you see
from a plane at 35,000 feet,
then you'll get a more accurate answer,
which is about 310 miles.
And you can figure this out yourself.
I already did this myself the other day
using this exact program.
Okay, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
So you want me to ask it specifically at 35,000 feet?
Correct, which is cruising altitude.
But this already says at 30 to 40,000 feet,
which so it's already in this answer, 25 miles.
Commercial airliners are not accurate.
Typically cruise at altitude around 30 to 40,000 feet
at heights.
They can be visible to observers on the ground
under clear conditions,
though they will appear as small moving lights.
Okay, so that's just saying like directly below it, right?
From 30 to 40,000 feet away.
So we want to add 30 to 40,000 feet.
If a plane is 30,000 feet in the air,
how far away can we see it?
Like how?
So if you can see one way, you can see the other.
You agree, right?
So if that's true, then you only need to ask
how far from 35,000 feet can you see?
Because if you're at 35,000 feet and you can see 300 miles,
then you can see the other way, 300 miles as well.
Yes.
And that's the way I asked.
So what if you just ask it,
how far can you see from a plane at 35,000 feet
on a clear night?
Okay.
You will get the answer that I think we need.
All right.
Oh, okay.
So like seeing land from a plane, right?
No, no, he's like saying, he's like,
if you're sitting in an airplane at cruising altitude.
Looking out.
Looking out of the plane.
If you can see Mike McKay,
he can see his back at you, right?
Well, you have to say like,
could we see a lithium ion battery fire
on the ground 300 miles away?
And I don't think you see,
I think that's a little too specific, right?
Cause what he says is he sees a fire
and he sees it low on the horizon, right?
And he only sees it on fire for about five or 10 seconds.
At 40,000 feet, how far can you see?
That's fair, right?
Sure.
I mean, I don't know.
Chad GBT is pretty interesting.
I mean, sometimes you get kind of different responses.
So this says 245 miles under clear conditions.
To the horizon.
Now, what I saw when I posted in there was 310 miles,
which is what my reporting states.
But again, this is very far, right?
Again, based on the curvature of the earth.
So this is saying at 40,000 feet,
you can see approximately 245 miles to the horizon
under clear conditions.
Yeah.
And keep in mind Mike McKay is on an elevated oil rig as well.
So it doesn't seem very unreasonable
that you'd be able to see a little bit further.
That is, I mean, not set the far end of the spectrum, right?
If we're gonna go by this.
I think we all agree, right?
And even Mike McKay does.
So he's seeing it low on the horizon,
which is probably at the maximum distance.
And that's probably why his sighting as well is that
it's not like he's seeing a huge plane, right?
He's just seeing some fire out there.
And he's going, oh, he hears about the situation.
He goes, huh, that's the same, you know, right location
and the same angle as well.
Keep in mind as well that Mike McKay
could be looking in any direction.
And it turns out he's looking in the exact right direction
of where the plane was relative to him as well.
So his sighting was very credible.
There was a lot of people that actually thought early on.
I went back and looked through a lot of initial reports that
But why do you think it's very credible?
Because what else is he seeing?
It's the middle of the night, guys.
It's 121 in the morning.
This guy's going out on an oil rig to have a cigarette
and he sees fire on the horizon.
Right, but like we talked.
In the same direction of MH370.
Is he just imagining, is he seeing a fireball?
Yeah, but like we talked about earlier.
Is he in a meteor?
Witness accounts, individual witness accounts,
they can get distorted even if it's a day later.
And now we're talking 10 years later
and we're asking chat GBT how far you can see at 40,000 feet.
They say 245 miles.
So we're stretching the human limit of visual acuity
saying that somebody can see a fire 300 miles away.
So I wouldn't call that very credible.
Well, I mean, my chat GBT that I'm going by said 310 miles.
Okay, still it's within 50, 60 miles.
In clear distance.
So to me, it's like a story.
What is the alternative story, right?
You have to have an alternative story.
So he sees a meteor.
What is he seeing?
Is he just making it up?
I mean, he risked his job and he lost his job over this, right?
And this corroborates the events that not are just from him,
but there's nine people along the coast.
He lost his, he got fired because of this?
He lost his job over this.
How did that happen?
That's not really explained.
But ultimately, if you are setting up a conspiracy,
you've got to discredit every witness
that's all the alternative story.
And that's what happened here.
There were nine people along the coast
that also hear loud noises at the exact same time,
which would indicate this explosion
of lithium-ion battery.
They all reported it.
They're all along the coast of Malaysia and Thailand,
which again corroborates his story as well.
So it's much more plausible
that you have a lithium-ion battery fire scenario.
He sees this fire potentially initially.
I look, I'm on board with you.
I don't think it's impossible
that there was a lithium-ion battery fire.
But I'm just saying, all I'm saying is
I wouldn't call this one guy's eyewitness accounting
from 300 miles away, very quote, very credible.
Like I don't think-
I mean, that's a subjective statement.
It seems like a little bit of a stretch to me.
Okay.
Yeah, well, so he did supposedly see something.
He had a sighting that he reported.
This isn't 10 years later either.
This is like right after it happened.
And a lot of people looked into it.
And one of the initial theories that I found
is that people speculated,
oh, could it have been a fire related to this?
The reason why they cast doubt on that was several reasons.
Mostly we didn't know how dangerous
lithium-ion battery fires were in 2014.
The other thing too is they said that,
well, it couldn't have been a lithium-ion battery fire
because the plane would have burnt up.
But as we've seen, these cargo bays are actually resistant
and are set up to actually withstand fires.
And we've seen from videos of lithium-ion battery fires,
you can actually fight them and you can put it out.
It just keeps coming back up again, right?
So it's not a situation where the fires
is raging out of control,
which of course is gonna bring down a plane very quickly.
It's a situation where you're battling this fire actively.
Okay.
So this plane was on fire allegedly
from the lithium-ion battery fire over the South
trying to see where this guy was on his oil rig.
The thing did he U-turn and then did what?
So yeah, if we switch back over to the video here,
this plane does a U-turn.
And if you go and Google MH370Wired,
you're gonna actually find an article
that argues exactly for this scenario
except for it argues for an electrical fire.
As opposed to-
What is it?
The Wired Magazine.
The publication.
Yeah, publication, yes.
And actually argues that going to Penang
would be the correct location to go
to an emergency scenario.
If this is a pilot suicide scenario,
you're gonna crash the plane right away.
If this is a hijacking scenario,
you're not gonna go to the nearest airport
that can accommodate a 777,
which has the longest runway.
The elevation is good for this as well,
which is why you potentially wouldn't go back
to Kuala Lumpur, potentially there's mountains,
et cetera here.
And the situation here is that if you have this
lithium-ion battery fire and it's depressurized the plane,
then you wanna stay low
where the passengers can breathe, right?
Yes.
If it's a situation where it's pilot suicide,
then you wanna be flying very high
because you wanna make all the passengers pass out.
And there's quite a big difference between how long
people will last depending on the altitudes
I looked into, interestingly enough.
So interestingly enough, it goes to Penang.
It turns right back at Penang.
Now, when it gets about, it's a little bit off the coast here.
At 1730 UTC, there's eight fishermen on a boat.
Eight of them see this plane flying extremely low,
very unusually low.
This would be indicative of the pilot here
is not trying to make people go unconscious.
It's quite the opposite.
They're trying to give people enough oxygen
and be able to breathe.
Because-
He's probably gonna be looking for a airstrip to land at.
Yeah, and there's other smaller airstrips,
but they're not gonna be long enough
to probably accommodate this.
And they're not gonna be open.
It's gonna be a situation where like,
you're desperately trying to land anywhere, right?
So this is actually the appropriate location
where they would be going in this emergency scenario.
Okay.
These fishermen see it flying low.
There's also at this point at 1730, a communication.
There's another pilot, another 777 pilot
who's going to Tokyo, I believe.
I could be wrong, Japan, I believe is how it's reported.
He didn't want his name to be known.
He hears a communication from either the pilot
or the copilot with some static in the background.
That is, there's not really direct communication
of what it is, but just that he reports
that he thinks he heard this communication.
So we now have doubt as to whether or not
the communications were even out.
And when we watched the Malaysian Prime Minister,
he argues that they didn't know that this was MH370,
but this was an unidentified plane.
But what other plane can it possibly be, right?
You're following this radar plane,
only one plane's gone missing.
It has to be MH370.
And he argues that they knew it was a commercial airliner
and that it wasn't hostile,
which I would ask you, Danny, like,
if they used to know that a plane isn't hostile
and not, and it's a commercial airline,
how can you know that if it's not identified, right?
How do you know it's not hostile?
To me, it has to be,
you have to have had communication with it.
Because otherwise, how do you rule out
that it's been hijacked by like terrorists or something
or by the Iranian passengers
that we were talking about before, right?
That's a good question.
The only way is you must add communication,
at least in my mind.
So it gets here to Penang, 1752 UTC,
which is just 30 minutes later.
Okay.
And so we imagine they're battling this fire
for whatever reason they don't land,
but the co-pilot's cell phone pings a local cell phone tower,
which could be, theoretically could mean
that they were low enough,
that they were able to ping the cell phone tower.
I imagine at 35,000 feet,
it's much more difficult
than if you're at like 10,000 feet or below.
And it could be that they were,
if you believe the communications were out,
you could argue that they were trying
to establish communication,
or you could just believe that this was just a random ping
because the phone was on and he was low enough.
It doesn't really add much,
but it's just kind of an interesting plot point here.
Whatever reason they don't land here.
Now, this is where it gets interesting,
because I would argue then that-
Can you full screen this by the way, sorry.
Oh yeah, I'm sorry.
No worries.
The main reason why you probably don't land here
is that your landing gear is damaged
or you can't be deployed.
And then the next thing you're supposed to do
is you're supposed to try to land on your belly,
on the land.
I actually didn't know that,
but I've looked at the, I actually talked to a pilot
who went through the scenarios with me on the internet and-
On Twitter, on Twitter spaces.
Yeah, on Twitter spaces.
And they said that, oh, well the next thing,
they showed me the pictures of the actual book, right?
That says here's the next thing you're supposed to do.
You're supposed to land on your belly supposedly.
Now, the issue here is that this,
how long have we gone through here?
We've only been in the air for about an hour,
at this point from 1642 to 1752.
This plane has another six hours of fuel in it.
So it's loaded with fuel.
So if you try to land on your belly with the fuel,
it's gonna blow up, right?
It's not a good recipe there.
Now, the next thing you're supposed to do is try
and it's supposed to try to dump the fuel.
So you can imagine maybe we try to dump the fuel,
but the problem is we're on fire here.
So this is like kind of trying to like light up a cigarette
in a gas station, you know?
This planes potentially, it seems like very dangerous
to try to dump this kerosene fuel everywhere.
Right.
So let's say you can't dump the fuel, it's too risky.
The next thing you're supposed to do, land in the ocean.
So now this starts to get back to what we were talking about
before with KT, right?
So what I imagine happened here then is that
you have communication and you're setting up
a rendezvous point because it's the middle of the night.
This is 1.52 a.m.
The sun is down, the moon is down,
there's no light anywhere.
So at this point you're saying, okay,
where are we gonna go land where we can get support, right?
I need people in boats nearby to get us.
Right.
If we try to land in the ocean,
unless we're pulling a perfect sully sullenberger
in the Hudson River, like we were looking at pictures,
Julian pulled up a picture in the last podcast
where it wasn't just a picture, but a video
of this plane trying to land like right next to the coast
and it just rips apart.
Right.
Like it's not a very safe situation
to be trying to land in the ocean.
Most likely this plane's gonna rip apart in the ocean.
So you need people like right there
and it's pitch black as well.
Like KT mentioned, you couldn't see anything.
So this plane comes out here.
The last contact is supposedly,
this time changes multiple times.
As I mentioned initially,
if you look at all the reporting from the next day,
they say that signal was lost at 1840 UTC.
But the Malaysian military-
Which is when it circles her boat.
Yeah, down over here.
Within about probably five minutes or so.
And the Malaysian defense minister
in all the press conferences is saying 1815 UTC
on like the days afterwards,
or 1822 UTC is when they lose contact.
But I would argue they probably still had contact
based on that intercepted communication,
the SOS that we talked about,
indicates that they probably still had some communication
levels with this plane.
Or maybe they were able to reestablish them.
It's hard to say exactly.
So what this means is this plane is doomed.
This plane is gonna try to land in the water.
It's gonna be doomed.
As I mentioned, I lived in Singapore once upon a time.
And so I went to school with a bunch of kids
who were from China.
And one of the things that I learned is-
How old were you when you lived in Singapore?
I was in high school when I lived there.
What made you wanna go there to go to high school?
I don't wanna get too much to my personal information,
but I had reasons to be living in Singapore at that time.
It wasn't like, oh, I'm gonna go live in Singapore.
Here we go.
It was like, no, it was family related stuff.
So, you know, my family was living there.
And so that's the reason why I went to school out there.
Yeah.
But why was your family living there?
Yeah, I mean, I don't wanna go into the personal stuff
related to my family and what their jobs are in general.
But-
Well, I mean, it's important that you lived there
and you're using it as context
for giving this video credibility.
So we should know what the background is
of why you lived there.
Okay, yeah, fine.
Let's go for it.
So yeah, my dad lived out there.
He had his job out there.
And so I went to go live with him and stay out there.
And so I spent about two and a half years
living out in Singapore,
which was a very eye-opening experience for me
in terms of learning about other cultures
and how they lived.
I've actually flown on Malaysian airlines
from Kuala Lumpur before.
Wow.
You know, before actually these events,
many years before them, but...
So I have experience.
I went to Malaysia, I've actually gone to Penang as well
before, Langkawi, the same place where that airport is.
I've been there and went vacation there one time.
And I had friends from all over the country,
all over the world, frankly.
Very few of my friends were actually even from America.
One of them actually though,
who was from America actually became a pilot,
interestingly enough.
So, you know...
And how many years total did you live there?
Two and a half years.
Two and a half years.
So, you know, and then I came back to the United States
and I, as much as I enjoyed my time there overseas,
I like America a lot more.
You know, you miss the down home stuff.
Like honestly, football on Sundays is one of the things
I missed a lot, right?
Is your dad still work there?
No, he's since moved back.
So...
Is he intelligent?
Many years ago.
He's not at all...
So one thing I will say is that...
Just kidding.
A lot of people are in the military that go there.
Like a lot of military families.
My family was not one of them.
You know, he was there for his own reasons,
his own job, whatever.
And he would have to tell you exactly why
he wanted to live there, et cetera.
I came along for the ride.
I did not know what to expect when I went to Singapore.
What I will say is a very beautiful country.
It's very much more industrialized
than I would have imagined when I first went there.
It's probably even better now, frankly.
So what I'll say though is I went to an international school,
had, you know, students of all over the world.
And when we went to swim class, gym class,
that's when I learned that mainland Chinese students
don't learn how to swim, apparently.
I don't know if it's because they don't have
as much lakes there, but it's not like in the West
where everybody really learns from a very young age
how to swim.
And it was very surprising to me
because the pool there was very shallow.
Like I'm a pretty tall guy.
I'm about six feet.
The pool was only like four feet deep.
So it was unusual that like only the Western kids
were getting in the water.
And I asked and said, oh no, apparently, you know,
maybe Taiwanese students who are like right on the ocean,
right, and you're on an island,
were much more likely to learn how to swim.
But if you're in mainland Chinese,
then it was actually not very common.
So this plane is filled with majority Chinese nationals.
So if this plane does crash into the ocean,
a lot of these people also can't probably swim.
What that means, again, is that this plane
is very likely doomed.
Is that even in a scenario where you do land in the ocean,
maybe you can keep the plane, you know,
not completely breaking apart.
People that do survive that many of them
are gonna end up drowning.
So no matter how you look at this at this point,
this is a very dire situation.
Also keep in mind, we've got a lithium ion battery fire
that's probably been billowing toxic smoke
throughout the air conditioning units
for hour and 20 minutes up to.
So likelihood of survival and a depressurized plane also.
It's not looking great for the passengers
on this plane no matter what at this point.
And this will kind of come into the potential motives
that we'll talk about later.
Okay.
So, you know, what we've got here now
is we've got a plane that's been on fire,
that can't land, that couldn't,
that potentially when it tries to land in the water,
it's gonna be a disaster.
We are have a witness who says you saw this plane
trying to land potentially.
We've got an SOS communication
where we saw this plane trying to land.
And then we're gonna have some videos
that is also gonna show this plane descending
on potentially with smoke billowing out of the back of it.
Okay. Yeah.
And who did this map again?
This was actually from Chris from the Not So Deep podcast.
Throw a little shout out to him.
Chris from the Not So Deep podcast.
Yeah.
One of the first that I talked to,
and actually the map itself comes from a map
that we created from MH370X,
but the animations come from him
where he added the nice cool plane flying over the top of it.
We have another one that also indicates a little bit
of where we think this plane might have gone to.
Okay.
Because there was actually a B77 fire suppression device
that washed up in the Maldives weeks after
that was not investigated.
Despite the fact that this-
Is there photos of that?
Or what is the proof of that?
Oh, yes, there is photos.
Yes, there is.
And it exactly matches a B77 fire suppression device
from these are the fire suppression devices
from the actual B77.
And this is what washed up.
And it's a weird looking object.
Who discovered this?
The Islanders on the Maldives.
So I think it was around a couple of weeks later,
a few weeks later that they just washed up,
it was not investigated.
This actually isn't even the best photo.
There's a more clear photo of this in the daytime
when they like put it on like a log or something
and you can actually see that there's like
a serial number on this as well.
So the idea that they didn't look into this as wild
and turns out the Maldives was intentionally excluded
from the search.
Have you ever tried to dig into this angle of it
and figure out where that thing could be
and try to find out who actually discovered it?
I haven't, but there were people that went to the islands
and actually looked into it.
Florence Dachangi was one of them, interestingly enough.
And I talked to her and her view was, well,
it doesn't add up.
So maybe it came from some other boat or something.
But this thing, look how weird this thing looks.
Like this is exactly this device.
I mean, that's it, right?
How can it not be the device?
Yeah, it looks very similar.
It looks like it.
I can't imagine this coming from anything else.
I mean, and I remember almost identical.
When I was first like looking into this situation
well before I was an investigator,
I remember this reporting on this and going,
huh, that looks like one of those like cartoon bombs,
right, where you like light it up.
And I just didn't realize like, oh, this has to be from it.
But now in retrospect, you look at it and you go,
okay, you know, that's gotta be one of these devices.
So I think that that's pretty telling as well.
In fact, there was also a sighting from early
in the morning in the Maldives,
which is about 6.15 in the morning.
The timing doesn't really match up,
but that they claim to see Malaysian airlines
flying over their small island at 6.15 in the morning,
where it was so clear,
they could see the windows from the passenger plane.
They knew it was a jumbo jet and you could see
the blue and white stripe apparently from it.
Sergio Caldivo, I'm probably butchering his last name.
I actually went out there and talked to them.
I spoke to Florence to Changi who also went out there
and talked to them and she says, well, it couldn't be
because it came from the wrong direction
and that I found some other reporting that said,
oh, well, they're trying to connect it
to some small 50-seater plane.
But I looked at that plane and it's just red and white.
It like doesn't match at all,
the witnesses statements there.
So I think that what we're gonna find is that
you can bring that sighting and that evidence back in
when we realize that the plane doesn't have to be coming
from the east.
It can be coming from the north
and that can match with this sighting perfectly.
There was like six or seven different islanders
that saw this plane in the early morning.
So there's quite a bit of evidence here
that we've got a fire situation going on.
And I think I spoke to the rest.
Oh yeah.
And so yeah, again, all these witnesses as well
that theoretically see this.
And now I think the big question is, okay,
well, it's a fire.
Why do we have this narrative
of it going into the South Indian Ocean?
Like why did this narrative get developed, right?
Right, maybe cause the guy was trying to waste all the gas
before he landed and instead of dumping the fuel,
like you said, and igniting the fire,
maybe he was trying to burn through all the fuel first
and flying at a low altitude.
This plane is not gonna last six hours.
You can't battle the fire for that long.
That's the issue.
And this is part of the reason why people didn't think
the fire scenario made any sense
because you can't last for six or eight hours.
It's even a miracle they last for one to two hours
potentially even an hour and a half.
And as we can see from our videos in the corroborated events,
they're trying to land in the ocean
cause you gotta get this plane on the ground right away.
So that's the big problem is that
why wouldn't they be able to last for six hours?
Cause the fire, they couldn't keep the fire
and the control for that long.
The fire is eventually gonna break freeze, you know,
and that's the thing.
And that's why people don't even believe the fire could last.
You could fight it for over an hour,
which is why I think it's important that I have somebody
willing to testify to Congress with me
that would say that you can,
who has extensive research looking into
these types of events.
Now going back to that documentary on Netflix,
when they very clearly show that there was pallets
of something that was going into the bottom of the plane
that didn't go through security,
did they say on the documentary that it was
Lithium ion batteries or what did they say that it was?
No, the Lithium ion batteries have been confirmed.
It's the Mangosteens.
It's like 4.5,000 pounds of Mangosteens,
which I think Florence O'Chang also cast out in her book
and saying that she believed,
she looked into it extensively, I've spoken to her as well.
From talking to her firsthand,
she thinks that it could have been contraband,
but that it's probably not related
to whatever happened with the plane.
Like it could have been something like rhino horns
or something that, you know,
has been put under some other name like that.
What's a Mangosteens?
Mangosteens are like these,
I think it's like a mango plant.
I don't know exactly, you can look it up.
It's a very weird oblong looking kind of plant.
The problem with it was that they were out of season.
And so the Malaysian government says,
oh, well they were shipped from this other place
a hundred kilometers away, which-
So that's the official narrative
is that it was Mangosteens.
Yeah, Mangosteens.
We've dug into it.
We can't find any way to corroborate it
being some other thing.
People, I've heard everything from the RQ170 drone pieces,
but that drone's way too big for it
to be fitting in these cargo bays.
So there could be some other angle to the cargo,
but as of date, we haven't been able
to successfully corroborate anything
that would link to whatever else that might have been.
Okay, yeah.
Good question though on that part.
Okay.
So you mentioned that the thing that got you interested,
the thing that brought you into this case
and was the videos, right?
The two videos, one from a drone and one from a satellite.
Yeah.
What, how important to this investigation
is are these two videos?
Yeah.
And do you think there's any possibility
that they are VFX?
I think that there is no chance
that any part of them is fake.
No chance.
And the reason for that is the requirements to fake them
in addition to the narrative to be built.
You know, one of the biggest things
that I tell people that wanna cast out in the videos
is okay, well, tell me a story that makes sense
for the videos to be fake, right?
And we'll go into the evidence around them
and maybe I'll just list that out right now.
So, okay, but why do you think that there's no chance
regardless of what the backstory might be?
Well, I think the requirements to fake them
will kind of explain that.
And then before we even go into your requirements,
I know you have a very long list,
dense list of requirements to how it could be faked,
but how does that change your narrative?
Or how does that change your hypothesis
if the videos are fake?
I think the only thing, interestingly enough,
like I didn't imagine to find all this evidence
supporting this lithium-ion battery fire scenario.
I mean, that has only come up in the last month,
potentially, right?
And it's almost to the point now
where we've been talking about this
for almost two hours, right?
And there's so much evidence,
even without the videos of the official narrative being fake.
You don't even need to look at the videos
to break all of this down,
which I think just goes to show
how strong of a case this is in general.
But keep in mind, I would never have gotten here
without the videos, right?
They started the whole thing,
and when there's been an investigation
where one leads to the other,
and when you're following this investigation,
following the clues,
and you're slowly building this puzzle piece together, right?
So the biggest part, I think, is that
when I looked at the videos,
the biggest thing I thought as well,
the only person I could imagine faking these videos,
because we're gonna be looking at two military assets
that were classified, right, is the US government.
They're the only ones who're gonna have the inside knowledge
on what that stuff is gonna look like.
It'd have to either be someone affiliated with them
or them directly.
And what we look at the videos is so incredible.
We see three orbs in these videos
that are circling the plane in a perfect pattern
that we can only understand potentially in 2023
to even be real.
I thought, huh, if these were a PSYOP,
which is what I think the angle that people aim at there is,
what's the story the US government's gonna tell with this?
And there's no story that makes any sense.
If you release these videos to the public,
and they never did, by the way,
you know, the big thing is the hoax would break down
the moment you find the plane.
So if you find this plane,
then you're gonna say, okay,
well, these videos make no sense, right?
But we never found the plane.
These videos are gonna show the plane disappearing.
Who's implicated if we release this on CNN, right?
You got Don Lemon, let's say,
and he's lost his job recently,
but let's say he's out there,
and he's showing this in 2018,
going, we've uncovered these videos.
Here you go, public, here's what really happened to the plane.
The general public is not gonna say,
oh, yes, aliens took the plane away.
No, the common answer is gonna say,
no, the government made this video to cover up the fact
that they're the ones who did something to the plane.
So you think that if this was public knowledge,
if mainstream media would have came out with these videos
and talked about them, you think that the majority
of people would assume that these orbs
are government technology.
No, I think that most people would have assumed
that the videos are fake and that the US government
would be the only ones who could have created them,
and therefore this would implicate
the US government in the cover up,
is that they would say, oh, I'm not gonna believe that.
Even now, when you show people the orbs in evidence,
they still say, you know, that can't be real.
Well, then what's the other story?
Well, the US government had to have created it.
Now, why would they create it?
To create a cover story
for whatever they really did to the plane.
You know, again, the problem is what's the narrative?
What did they do to the plane?
If not that, right?
It didn't land in the South Indian Ocean.
We went through that evidence, right?
So what really happened to it?
Do you think there's no possible other,
there's no possible other route of logic
other than the fact that the government would have faked it?
Like, have you thought through
like what the other possibilities could be?
Like what other people could,
what people could speculate other than the fact
the government tried to fake it?
Like, could it just be somebody on the internet
trying to get attention?
Cause clearly there's lots of people
who make fake videos to get attention.
I thought that would happen, yeah.
Could it be another government faking the video,
covering it up?
Like why have you ruled out any other possibilities
of speculation other than the US government faking it?
I've thought about all those angles.
The biggest one is that individuals trying to do it,
there's no issues or discrepancies anywhere
in these videos at all,
not even in a single frame of either of them.
So if it's just an individual doing it,
this is gonna take far too much time and effort
and there would be mistakes involved.
This was, we're talking about either a team
of people doing this, a studio of people doing this,
or the government itself.
Part of the reason why it has to be the government
is there's military classified intel
that you would need to know
in order to be able to even accurately recreate these.
And that's the same reason why it'd be tough
for another foreign adversary to create them.
The biggest thing is the timetable.
Timetable window is so small.
So the problem is the very first video that comes out
by posted by Regicide Anon,
who's a UFO uploader account,
who's posted other videos.
I'll go ahead and show the images of this just to prove it.
Hoax debunked.
This is his channel?
This is his channel.
Is this still up?
This is, I think we probably found it from the,
no, it's been deleted.
So this is an internet archives.
I would argue that most of these videos are fake.
Except for when we get to our MH3701s.
So most of his videos that he uploads are fake,
except for the MH3?
Yeah, I mean, let's say not fake, but not as credible.
Let's say it's probably the best one.
Because I haven't obviously debunked
all these other videos.
Okay, let's read through the title.
The other videos that he posted were ghosts of drowned boy
haunts his brothers,
flying saucer a quarter mile wide,
WWII, World War II archive footage of flying saucer,
UFO sightings impossible,
maneuvering, and then we have the videos
of the drone Malaysia flight and the satellite.
When we look at his video here,
this is the actual archive of the first video.
It's called satellite video airliner and UFOs
uploaded by Regicide Anon.
The description says published May 19th,
which is about 70 days after the event.
This is when it was early published.
Published 70 days, okay.
But it says received March 12th, 2014.
This is four days after the event.
Source protected.
The other sources would generally say stuff
like email submission,
none of them say protected on them.
This is an indicator here
that he was actually leaked real footage
right after the event
that the person who saw it had an emotional reaction
to the footage felt like they needed to release it.
But that Regicide Anon potentially had to be convinced,
maybe took weeks to convince them
that, hey, you need to publish this, this is real.
Because we had so little basis
to understand the videos to be real.
Right, but like if I am a person online
posting these types of videos, right?
I wanna post, I'm posting them to fool the public
or to get attention from them, right?
I'm not gonna post it and say fake VFX video.
I'm gonna post it and I'm gonna put descriptions in there
that prove that it's real.
I'm gonna want, I have incentive
to make people believe that this is an actual video.
That's real, it's not fake.
So putting received date four days after the plane went down,
that makes sense because they wanna convince people
that it was right after.
So the narrative that you're building right now
is that Regicide Anon is somehow in on it.
That they are somehow involved in producing it, right?
That's the speculation, yes.
So that's the problem now is that you have to begin,
if you wanna think these videos are fake,
you have to begin with Regicide Anon
somehow being involved in it.
And now this is immediately going to be contrary
to the previous assertion
that perhaps the military had to be involved in it.
And this is part of the reason
why we've ruled that narrative out,
is that you can't have both be true
unless you think Regicide Anon
is part of the military industrial complex.
But what we just saw from the previous image,
he has stuff that says debunked.
He's not doing what you just claimed.
And he also has video of ghosts of boys around.
Right, so this isn't exactly the most credible,
this doesn't scream to me a person
who's trying to convince people that stuff is real.
This also doesn't scream to me,
this is a person who's CGI and stuff themselves.
This is just somebody who's being given videos
that they are posting on the internet, right?
What does that mean?
Do you know what that videos sabitos means?
What does that mean in Spanish?
I don't know where we're looking here.
Let's see where it says under videos,
it says videos sabitos and reproducer todo.
It's all in Spanish.
What does sabitos mean?
You know, Steven?
I'll check it out.
That's what the internet is for sabito.
Videos sabitos, I'm curious to what that means
because that's clearly highlighted.
Fuck, I can't see it.
Is it S-A-B-I?
S-S-U-B-I-D-O-S.
Point my mouse where you think we're looking at it.
On the top left, above the video.
Oh, over here, these are probably video submissions.
Yeah, so that means video submissions.
Yeah, these are video submissions.
And some of these say email submission as well,
so they're not consistent with all of a sudden
we have these very high quality videos
compared to these other ones here before.
And interestingly enough,
it doesn't say anything about MH370 here.
He makes a Twitter account three days after the upload.
Now, if you're somebody who is trying to fake these,
this is not how I would say,
please spread this before it's pulled.
And then he also tags MH370 for the first time.
He connects it there, right?
I would also argue here that under my impression
when I look at these videos,
I think we're seeing our technology.
That's only because I've dug through all the evidence
that we dug through here today.
And we've learned that this was a situation
where this plane was doomed.
You know, I don't like to attribute to UFOs or whatever,
like, oh, they're gonna go save the plane.
No, that's something humans go do.
Right, what I'm saying, like from the Twitter posts,
he's saying, please spread this video.
He's trying to get the video to go viral.
He's trying to get more views on his video on YouTube.
The fork is pulled, for sure.
All right, that's a lot of people say that
to get more videos, more views on their videos.
I don't know if you said that.
A lot of people go on podcasts
and they do it with like controversial people.
Alex Jones, for example, and they'll say,
go watch my Alex Jones podcast
before the government pulls it down, right?
To get more people to think, oh my God,
this is important, this is urgent.
I need to go watch it now.
Like, that's a tactic people use to get views.
Well, I think that you have to look
at the fake video requirements now,
which is unless Regicide Anon is involved in it,
if he's not involved in it, you have four days,
because otherwise he has no reason to lie
about the received submission.
Hold on, say it one more time.
So if you think that Regicide Anon is involved in it,
then he's lied about it, then you have up to 72 days
to create the first video.
72 days, right.
The satellite.
Which he very easily could have just put,
received four days later.
That's easily just, he could have put that.
You have to have a reason to lie, right?
In my opinion.
To make it go viral, that's why you would lie.
To make people think that it's real.
You would also put MH370 in the name
if you're trying to make it go viral.
You wouldn't leave it ambiguous, right?
Again, we look at the video here
and it doesn't say anything about MH370, right?
He doesn't do that until after he uploads it later on,
three days later.
Okay.
So to me, it doesn't really add up.
That's a good point.
In terms of trying to catch attention for it,
because he's clearly not catching,
trying to catch attention for it
in the description of the video.
There's no reference copy to copy this from.
This isn't a situation where like,
there's something else out there
and you're trying to make it look like
it's not a deep fake situation
where you're superimposing something over the top of it.
And that's part of the reason why,
if you try to say that, oh,
well they use this visual effect,
it doesn't work.
Because unless it's a perfect match,
then you're saying, oh, well,
you're gonna modify it to look like that.
Well, this isn't something you copied it from.
This is something that you would have created
all originally, right?
If you're saying, what are you saying?
So a lot of people have tried to argue
there's a VFX debunk out there.
Yeah, I've seen it.
The Mick West one, right?
Yeah, that this portal is from some low-quality,
two-dimensional video game effect that's very pixelated,
that somehow that's been superimposed over our videos.
And we've shown that it doesn't match at all.
As a statement. Not at all.
As a statement of fact.
It does not match on even a single frame.
Really? And people have argued,
well, it doesn't need a match, you can modify it.
Well, that's the problem.
That's the original work.
It's not like you're looking at two things side by side
and lining up the pixels, right?
You would have to have originally modified that
into being something else.
And if you're gonna do that,
you're not gonna go through that effort.
Wait, hold on, you're losing me.
What's an original work?
So this work that we're talking about,
the videos that we're watching that we're about to pull up,
there's nothing that they could have been copied from.
It's not like you're taking a master painting
and you're making a replica of it, right?
If you're doing that,
then you're painstakingly matching left to right, right?
In an original work, you're being creative.
You're creating your own thing, right?
In that situation,
you're not gonna take a visual effect
and then you're not gonna be able to modify it
to what we see in our videos
because you don't have the frame of reference
to modify it like that.
You can only do that after the fact.
Okay, well, if I'm trying to make a video
of a plane disappearing inside of an explosion.
You would use an explosion, yes.
I would use an explosion effect.
I wouldn't make the,
that would be the most obvious thing I would do.
Yeah, and that's the thing.
So why did they not use an explosion effect?
So here's the thing, let's pull it up and see.
I have the superimposed one right here.
Do you?
So let's look at this together.
Okay.
So, see, this is an explosion effect.
This is not what our video is.
And so if you were faking it,
you would use the explosion effect.
You would have this plane blowing up.
Our video is gonna show an endothermic event,
a cold one that's absorbing energy.
Because it's black, right?
Yeah, because it's cold in the thermal.
And you can see that here we can already tell
that what we're looking at here is not the same.
Do you, are you, there's a tool that you can use
in Adobe Premiere or in Adobe Photoshop
where you can invert the colors
and change the, not only the illuminance,
but you can change the balance of the colors,
the vibrance of the colors.
And you can basically invert something that's black to white
or you can change something,
you can even change the color from purple to pink.
Now tell me a story as why you're doing that.
Given the fact that we know this is an original work.
Why are you not just using it
like we see on the screen right now?
I don't know, I'm just saying, I have no idea.
Well that's the thing you have to know.
If you wanna come up with a scenario
that is a counter story.
I'm not trying to come up with a scenario.
I'm just trying to explain something
that is entirely possible.
So it's different when you say something is possible
versus here's a story that makes sense.
But that's a difference, right?
If your argument is, oh, they took this
and they somehow modified all these,
see all these explosions you see on the side,
these are not obviously in our frame at all.
You have to delete all this.
It's not as if it was changing the color, right?
We're talking about a situation
where you have to completely change the effect.
The problem is you don't have the copy to reference it from.
It's not like, oh, I'm going, oh, I'm gonna take this
and I'm gonna turn it into this
because you don't have an original reference copy.
This is a unique work of art.
So you're saying that this explosion
that we're seeing on this video is a real explosion.
And it's a real explosion that happened in the camera
and it's impossible for any sort of visual effect
to be superimposed on top of it or anything like that.
I'm just saying that this effect
that we're looking at is not in our videos
as a statement of fact.
Okay, okay, gotcha, gotcha.
So if it's something else and there's something else out there
that people can find that perfectly matches, then great.
But this one, the frame that they try to get to match
is I believe, like it doesn't, I mean,
it really doesn't match on any,
I think it's one of these frames
where they essentially try to line it up.
And they try to say that, oh, well,
well, since, oh, that's the frame right there.
This is the frame where they say this matches.
But we can already tell it doesn't match.
You can see behind here, it's completely different.
So the argument that I make,
which is a very simple debunk of the debunk
is how many pixels match.
If you say that these two things are the same,
you can already see that the outline doesn't match.
But they say, oh, well, it's too close.
Okay.
But that's not how it works.
Like closest only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades.
Have you talked to any visual effects artists about this?
Yeah, I have.
And they've all said the same thing,
that this is a real work of art
and that these are not visual effects.
Do you, how much background have you done on these guys
and like, what are their credentials?
Quite a bit.
You can look up Shai Kenan, if you want.
She's a very established visual effects artist.
She says that the hardest part about visual effects,
Shai Kenan, S-H-Y-K-E-N.
Shai Kenan, okay.
Yeah, on Twitter, yep.
And we've got visual effects lead from Marvel Studios.
It was Todd Phillips.
I could, I may have say-
Todd Phillips is a director of-
Oh, no, not Todd Phillips.
That's the hangover.
That's the hangover.
I have to pull up his name.
I apologize, I don't have it up in front of me.
But on one of my other podcasts
with the Total Disclosure podcast,
he went on the record stating that just to do
the background research related to everything
would take months to figure out the angles
and everything you need.
And even using today's technology would take up
to six months to be able to produce these videos.
Do you know what it would take to convince you
that this is VFX?
Yeah, you'd actually have to do it.
So like when it comes to what we see right here
on this visual effects, right?
Someone actually needs to go and modify every pixel
and go and make it match and tell me how long it takes
to just do the one frame.
Okay, do you, I've ever heard of Corridor Digital?
Yeah, yeah.
And they, you know, people have pinged them nonstop.
They did not step up to the plate to try to do this.
You're gonna have to have better visual effects skills
than the creators of Top Gun Maverick.
They actually posted on Reddit and their post says
that whoever would have created this, here it is.
Let me just read it.
I was the lead VFX artist on Top Gun Maverick.
If this is CGI, whoever made it,
front run their work by over four years
and did a better job than us apparently.
And again, this is a movie about planes.
The biggest advantage they had was to cheat the speed
of the jets and the scale through different shots
and cinematic effect.
So some of the hardest part here is gonna be
when you see this plane moving.
They said even in the Dark Star sequence,
the actual speed of the 3D model moving through our environment
wasn't anything close to Mach 10.
Whoever made this animation was sure that the speed
and the scales accurately between two cameras,
which means it's animated and scaled to real world speed.
So they said, I don't know if this video is real.
It could be made using CGI,
which would require a considerable amount of effort.
The camera distortion and the rolling shutter
would all have had to be recreated.
The clouds and the lighting looked to be correct
based on the visible light rays.
So to me, those are extremely damning comments
that make it essentially,
you've got somebody who has the lead visual effects
as one of the biggest blockbusters of the last two years.
You don't know, it was just a Reddit post.
Well, it could be verified, right?
We could go find that person, we could talk to them.
Have you though?
I haven't, but we could.
So again, everything that I post out there is verifiable.
And that's why it's important.
Now, again, we do have the Marvel VFX expert on record.
You have to have a better understanding of physics
than most PhDs.
A lot of the physics that we're seeing here
is extremely advanced.
And I've had various PhDs come out to me
and reach out to me and claim that, yes,
this matches what my theories state.
This matches what you might be able to see.
Salvatore Pius reached out to me
to have me set up an interview with him,
which to me indicates that he thinks
what we're looking at here is potentially authentic.
Otherwise, why is he reaching out to a guy
that's investigating something
that he thinks might be fake videos?
I thought you said you reached out to him.
Well, I reached out to him,
but he responded back within less than a day.
And he's the one who wants to set up an interview with me.
I didn't ask him for an interview.
Okay.
All right, so the guys at Corridor Digital,
they are working on a video.
They have a series on there.
They have a separate channel with like 14 million subscribers
where they do this thing called,
this series called VFX Artists React to different things,
like UFO videos.
They did all the Navy videos.
And I talked to them a couple of days ago
and they're actually already working on something like this.
And I told them you were coming in
and I said, look, this guy, like we talked about,
you're kind of like figuring this thing out in real time.
Just started working on it a couple of months ago
and we're trying to get to the bottom of this
if this is real or not, what are your guys' opinions?
And he made a video.
Okay.
Are you open to watching it?
Let's watch it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do you have it on the, he sent it to me.
I got it.
Not that long ago.
It was today.
Okay, here it is.
So this is Nico from Corridor Digital.
Sounds good.
Hey everybody, my name is Nico Peringer.
You might recognize me from Visual Effects Artist React.
We take a look at Visual Effects every week on our show,
on our Corridor Crew YouTube channel.
And we talk about what makes them cool,
what makes them not work, all that good stuff.
But I've also personally done Visual Effects
for many years on YouTube since like 2009, 2010.
And I wanted to take a look at these shots.
Danny asked me to take a look at them
and apply my Visual Effects Artist eye.
So first and foremost, taking a look at these shots,
it's been, they've been linked to Malaysian Airlines 370.
People have said that these are,
this is UFO footage of the airline disappearing.
And one of the things people say
that makes them legitimate is how long it would theoretically
take to do these Visual Effects.
So looking at these shots, in my point of view,
these are shots that you could do in a couple of days.
The background is mostly a static image
that's been just animated over with a 3D model of an airplane
and a couple of objects orbiting that airplane.
These are not challenging shots to do in Visual Effects.
All you have to do is basically lay a path out
for an object to follow.
In this case, it could be an airplane
and a path for those objects orbiting around it
in a particle emitter for the contrails.
The background is not animated at all.
So this, the satellite point of view shot
could easily do in a day.
Likewise, the thermal vision shot,
which is a little more complicated,
you could also theoretically do that
in about two days of work, maybe a day of work,
especially if you had the airplane model already on hand.
The thing that starts me about this shot
that makes it, I guess, higher up.
We might have some commentary in between this.
Sorry, what would you say?
Is this gonna actually do the work?
Cause just having a guy claim it,
and the issue first right off the bat
is he's talking about using today's technology, right?
But we've already proven these videos go back to 2014.
Just a, you'd have to build a 3D rendered environment
just to begin to do this work
because we have two different cameras
from two different angles.
Just to render that using computer processing from 2014
will take several weeks.
So right off the bat, we can already dismiss his claims.
Right, we can already dismiss them.
Yeah, let's see how he does.
Okay. Keep going.
So what we're trying to do for a higher quality
is that the texture, if this is a V effect shot,
which it is, the texture work on the airplane
to give us that thermal look looks great.
But here's why I think these are visual effect shots, right?
So first and foremost, looking at the shot,
the satellite feed, there is no movement in the background.
It is just a static image of the play here.
So we already established it's a cyber system
and there actually is movement.
It's actually been proven as well
that if you take 15 seconds snapshot,
you can actually see movement in the clouds as well.
So have you shown this in a video?
Yeah, we can show it right now.
Okay, let's finish this and we'll show that up.
We'll show it after.
So already I'm starting to lose credibility in him
because he's already made two false statements
and we're only one minute in.
Okay, let's keep going.
Let's keep a note of that.
Let's keep going.
You claim that the background is not static.
There is movement that's visible.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
You can see that the clouds are unchanging.
They don't move at all.
If those little white flecks in the background
are waves in the ocean, they don't move at all.
If this was being filmed from a high altitude airplane,
you would have movement from the airplane.
If it was being filmed from a satellite,
you would definitely have movement from the satellite.
And just pause it right there.
Because again, we already established
this is a cyber system,
which is actually a computer program
that's pulling this data.
And that's the reason why we don't see
as much general movement.
And that's why we don't see the movement
of the satellite either.
So let's keep going.
I just thought of something.
This video is supposed to be six frames a second, right?
Right, the background.
Any motion, any clouds would actually be moving faster
than you would typically see with your eyes.
You're right.
It would not be smooth.
It would be jittery.
So the reason why that would be far,
that you're gonna have very little movement there
is that the satellite's 1,000 kilometers away.
So if we were to go look outside at that clouds
that are very far away,
we're gonna see very little apparent movement of them.
This is about 10 to 100 times further away
than that as well.
So this actually accounts for why you would see
so little movement is that the data is coming
from satellites that are extremely far away.
Anyway, let's keep going.
Like 20,000 miles an hour.
And just for reference here, here's footage,
real-time footage taken today
from the International Space Station.
And you can see how fast it's moving.
We can see the clouds going by
just to jump to a different point in time.
If you wanna pause there
because that's also been brought up as well
is that satellite's much closer to the ground as well.
So. Which satellite?
That one that they were just looking at there.
The space station's closer
to the ground in the Sibir satellite?
Then the satellite, I believe, yeah.
If I remember correctly,
you could even see, I think, the numbers down there.
If I remember correctly,
it was like twice as close potentially there as well,
which is why there's so much apparent movement
from the space station.
Can you find out how far the space station is from Earth?
Sure. Okay.
But I wanna say that everything is relative.
So when you say it's twice as close,
that means that the clouds would theoretically
be moving twice as slow, right?
But in the video, it seems to,
it does seem to.
The perspective changes eight times in the video as well.
So, and we'll prove that the videos that they've moved,
this is, none of this is anything new
that we haven't already debunked so far.
But let's keep going.
Okay.
I'm just trying to figure this out like you are, man.
I wanna, to hear why you think this is bullshit.
Sure.
No, let's keep going.
All right.
Space station a wider angle.
Like we can see the movement.
We can see the camera,
because satellites don't sit still.
They're moving very, very fast around the Earth
in order to be able to stay in orbit.
So if that's the case,
you know, jumping back to this supposed satellite view here,
you know, we can see it is completely static.
Nothing is moving.
There's no parallax.
Are you watching?
The waves are moving.
The clouds aren't even evolving.
It's a static frame.
Now, if you want to do a shot in a few days,
that's how you would do it.
You grab a picture of from a satellite point of view,
throw it in your background,
put your 3D models over it and animate it and call it a day.
So it really stands out to me that the background doesn't
move because it should,
especially if it's a satellite or an airplane,
we should have parallax.
It doesn't possible for it to be standing still.
Well, let's pause it real quick.
Yeah.
The other thing that stands out to me about this shot
is that...
All right, I just want to make sure
that we're keeping track, all right?
Let's, I know you're like searching through
your computer right now,
but I want to make sure you...
I'm listening.
We do have parallax as well.
We have a video that proves there is parallax
without any doubt and discrepancy whatsoever.
So, and I mean, if you want to pull it,
you want to switch over to my screen real quick?
Let's finish this.
I want, I just want you to pay attention to this.
I don't want you to miss anything.
I'm not missing anything.
All right.
Because I see you ripping through,
you're ripping through the computer right now.
So far nothing's new.
Okay.
Keep going.
Okay.
We can tell that these clouds,
well, they've been taken,
they're from daytime.
They have sunlight on them.
You can see the sunlight illuminating them
and falling through the cloud,
but Malaysian Airlines flight 370
disappeared between one and two AM.
So it would be nighttime.
So let's pause it right there.
Let's pause it right there
because there's like three false statements
right there and together.
The plane went dark at 1721,
which is 1.21 AM.
According to the official narrative,
the plane went missing at eight in the morning
when there was sun on it,
which is why early on I thought that this
would have happened in the South Indian Ocean.
But as we talked about already,
this is a false color IR that's being taken at night.
There's no cloud.
There's no shadows anywhere.
So you claim this happened at what time exactly?
1840 UTC, which is 2.40 AM,
which is a nighttime.
So he's making an opinion here,
but unfortunately in this case, not an educated one.
So let's keep going though.
Well, this is just nighttime photography
taken with a really sensitive camera,
but there's two issues with that.
One is that if it was nighttime photography,
you still have a lot of light on these clouds.
You can see they're getting a directional light source
that then falls off.
So it would have to be a full moon
with a very sensitive camera.
But the other issue is that if you look at these objects
spinning around the plane and the plane itself,
there's no motion blur.
Because the thing is when it's nighttime,
when you're trying to film with photons with light,
you need to have the shutter stay open
for longer on the camera
to let enough photons in to get a bright frame like this.
If you've ever taken a picture at night with your phone
and it takes a second to take that picture,
it's doing a long exposure.
It's letting in as much light as it can.
So what that means when you have a shutter
that's open for a long time,
it means you get a lot of motion blur.
And there is no motion blur
on these objects that are moving very fast.
So if this was taken under the full moon,
I mean, we could always check to see
if it was a full moon then.
But if this was taken under the full moon,
which it's not, there's no camera technology
that can do this even at nighttime under a full moon.
At the very least, if you want it to look like this,
you'd have to have the shutter open for so long
that none of these objects would show up.
They'd be moving too fast.
They would be blur, faint blurs
that you wouldn't even be able to see.
Let's jump over to, at the end here,
when there's a teleportation blast.
So the other thing here,
especially if this was nighttime,
this flash here would illuminate the clouds.
It does.
But it does not.
It does illuminate the clouds.
That's another false thing.
Hang on, hang on, hang on.
I got a boss, boss, boss, boss, boss.
All right, let's watch.
Stop going through your computer.
I got it.
I just need to make some notes
because I want to be able to address all these points
because every single thing can be addressed.
Okay.
I just want to make sure you're paying attention to it.
I am.
All right.
Found it, as we see.
You can see the illumination, right?
You can see it.
But that's just a compositing trick.
We just select an area of your image
and you brighten it.
What is not happening is we're not seeing
any new light direction.
We're not seeing shadows being cast
in a different direction.
No parts of the cloud that were dark
are now taking on light
and showing us a different volumetric shape of the cloud.
This is just classic compositing.
We've done it all the time with our fake muzzle flashes
when we do gunfights
where you just select part of your image
and you brighten it up.
Now, you could do your own lighting on clouds
if you rendered volumetric clouds.
If you've watched a Marvel film,
you've seen an explosion in a modern movie,
those CGI explosions, well, those are called volumetrics.
You're even seeing it in Unreal Engine now
for the sky and how the sky is rendered.
In 2014, we still had volumetrics.
They were a little more difficult to do,
but in this case, there's no volumetrics in action here.
I just, you don't see it from the lighting.
You see no parallax shift from the camera,
which shouldn't be just completely static in the sky.
It should be moving.
I mean, this is a background photo.
So here's the thing that is the biggest reason
this is visual effects.
And this was, I really should have started with this,
but then it just got to be the end of the conversation,
which is the teleportation of the airplane at the end,
this shockwave, which looks really cool.
But this is stock footage and it's stock footage
from the 90s.
I can show you the original stock footage element.
Hold on, watch.
Here it is right here.
Yep, let's watch it together.
That's not the same.
It's a really cool stock footage element,
pretty obscure.
You haven't seen a lot of it.
But if you line it up over the footage here,
which I did.
So here's the stock footage frame.
They took one frame.
Just zoom this in a little bit.
And I'm going to switch in my opacity
between the stock footage frame
and the infrared thermal frames, the UFO video.
Well, if we go back and forth,
we see that they perfectly line up.
They definitely not perfectly line up.
The ripples are all in this right same spot.
The burnt in dots here in the same spot.
It's, it's that element.
Who it?
All right, pause it.
Yeah, pause it.
So as a statement of fact, those do not match.
And all I have to say to counter is,
how many pixels match?
Do we want to ask our expert?
Dude, it is fucking exact.
It's not though, that's the problem.
It's not an exact match.
That's the issue.
So, so how?
Every pixel would have to be in the same spot
and they're not.
Again, all I have to say is how many pixels match.
That's all I have to say.
No, it's not because look,
you're compositing an effect into a new video, right?
You're using an effect
that was clearly made in the 90s
and you're bringing it onto a video
that was produced in 2014, right?
Now he's clearly inverting the colors, right?
So what's to say, there's no expanding of it.
Did he just have those dots on there as well?
Yeah, show when he's doing the opacity.
See those two dots, see the big one
and see the little one up top?
So back over to the other one.
Go back to where he's going over there.
We'll go to later, because I actually have the-
Watch, watch, watch.
So you see the extra dots, right?
Yep, see them, watch.
And now they're gonna disappear.
They go back and forth.
They don't, they don't.
Look, they're there.
The black dots right there.
Scroll down, just like right,
keep your mouse right near the,
I mean, I've got the version of this.
So no worries, just keep going.
Let's see what else we've got.
Perfectly line up, right?
It's perfect.
It's not the-
You see that the black actually does not line up, right?
You see how it's not the same on the like the edges?
How it's just like close,
but it's not a perfect match.
So this is the reason that-
So how are all of those little wave ripples,
how are those so perfectly matching what's in the video?
All dispersal patterns.
And the dots.
Those dispersal patterns look the same.
This is like saying that my butthole is your butthole
because they're similar, right?
It's not, we don't have the same butthole because of that.
In fact, I have a visual effect of a donut
that actually better matches than this does.
And that's the point is that just because shapes are similar.
And again, this is one frame.
And even on this one frame, it's not a perfect match.
You can even tell in the middle it's not even close.
You can see there's extra dots that are added there
that don't exist in our video either.
So you think they what, deleted them?
So you're saying the explosion that really happened.
It's not an explosion.
It's an endothermic event.
The endothermic event that really happened in 2014
came this close to matching a VFX element
produced in the 90s?
Correct.
And the people that found this, how did they even find it?
They had to use something to search for something
to try to find something that was similar
so that they could actually come up with this debunk.
Okay, let's keep playing it.
Yeah.
So I just want to elaborate as a statement of fact,
these two things do not match.
In terms of being 100% match,
you can already see the differences
and where they don't match.
Okay, but this guy's a VFX guy
who's been doing this his entire life.
I think he discredited himself pretty hard
because he's made like,
I'm counting here eight different factual errors here.
And that's just, we haven't even finished yet.
Okay, let's keep going.
Ah, the burnt in dots here in the same spot.
Except for the ones that aren't.
It's that element.
Like there's no ifs and or buts.
It is, that is the exact element that's in the shot,
which kind of destroys the whole thing,
but it's not really fun just to do this and call it a day.
You want to break it down, right?
If we're going to draw some knowledge from this,
if we're going to be scrutinizing and skeptical
and scientific about the stuff we're looking at,
well, let's look at things that we can use
to inform ourselves on whether this stuff is real or fake.
So obviously the stock footage element here
being pasted into the shot is a great indicator
that this is visual effects.
But what else might we be looking for?
Well, let's jump over to this thermal shot,
which is a really fascinating shot here.
So a couple things stand out to me on this shot
that make me think it's visual effects.
First and foremost, if this was actually thermal footage,
there's a couple things that aren't inaccurate.
For example, when the smoke trails from the plane,
the contrails, when they stack up on each other,
they start to turn green.
That would imply that they're getting hotter
just because they've over lacked with each other,
which is not how thermals would actually look.
In fact, vapor and smoke and all those things in the air
don't show up on thermals at all.
As we saw in the recent Veritasium video that came out
where they compared night vision technologies,
they filled a room with fog from a fog machine,
and you can't see Derek at all in that fog.
But when looking at it through thermal,
you can see him perfectly clear.
So with that in mind, these contrails
should not be showing up as thick as they are
in this thermal vision.
Secondly, in the background, the clouds,
the clouds are not quite represented accurately
either with thermals, and the biggest thing
that stands out to me with thermal vision
is thermal vision isn't noisy like this.
You know, that grain, that noise that you see
in footage like this, that's something that happens
when you're filming something with very little light
and you need to crank the sensitivity on your camera,
you need to boost that signal
and it boosts the noise with it.
Well, with thermal, the thermal's not being
underexposed here, which would create that noise.
In fact, if you look at other examples of thermal footage,
there's none of that kind of grain on it
because thermals aren't being underexposed.
You're not trying to boost up light signals.
Even really inexpensive cheap thermal cameras
still don't have that kind of grain.
They might have kind of like a fixed pattern
on top of like the image that kind of swings,
like that kind of sticks there
while this image swims under it,
which you can kind of see here.
But there's none of that flickering
black and white snow kind of grain in that footage.
Even looking at that UAP footage from the Pentagon,
there's grain, but notice how it's kind of like
a fixed pattern of grain that kind of sits there
as opposed to flickering all over the image.
And the image itself really isn't that flickery,
not nearly as flickery as this thermal footage.
So these are things that if I were to be critiquing
a VFX shot, if I was working on a film,
they had given it to me,
these are things I would ask them to fix,
to improve upon to make the shot more realistic.
But I don't want to just actually rig on the problems here
because there's actually some fantastic work here
that is so fantastic, it's engaging people,
it's pulling them into the story.
And there's a couple of things
that this is doing really well.
That the artists who ever made these shots,
they're executing on it really well.
And the first thing is the animation.
The animation is perfect, right?
It's very realistic to how a plane moves, it's mysterious.
I mean, even this thermal drone shot here,
like the way that the camera zooms in,
the way we fly through the contrails of the airplane,
the camera shake, like all the motion
is very, very convincing.
And in fact, one thing we've learned
when it comes to visual effects
is that as long as your motion is convincing,
you can get away with almost anything.
Like having a really realistic CG
doesn't help if the motion looks fake.
So good motion is a huge, huge, huge, I guess, plus
for making us buy something as real.
And the animators here did a fantastic job of that motion.
The second thing that these artists did
that I really admire is they really nailed the look
of like degraded footage, right?
Like the satellite footage, like the blue
and the green and the dropped frame rate
and like the way the mouse clicks and drinks
around the window and the coordinates updates.
And, you know, like the feel, the texture, the contrast,
all these things in this image are just like dialed in
to make us feel like it's satellite image.
And it's really well done.
Same thing with the thermals.
Like doing fake thermal vision is not super easy to do.
And they really nailed the look here.
There's a couple of issues.
Like for example, if you look at these clouds down here
at the bottom, they're starting to turn green
just a little bit, I mean,
I'm flying that they're actually really hot
like the temperature of the airplane,
which is not what they should be doing.
This is an effect you would get
if you took a regular image of clouds
and then mapped a thermal gradient on that footage
from, you know, darkest things being cold
and brightest things being hot, you'd get that effect.
But also looking at the airplane here
when they zoom in on it,
they've done their own custom texture on the airplane
to give us that thermal look on the airplane,
which is once again, really well done.
That takes time.
You know, that's artistry.
And the blur, the noise, a little crosshairs,
all these things just, it really nails the look, right?
So like we shouldn't feel ashamed or anything like that.
If we look at these shots, we're like, wow,
these are really realistic.
I need to investigate because it's fantastic work
by these artists, but there are some clear things
that stand out that point to them being fake, you know,
there's a lot honestly, everything from the contrails
not being an accurate representation of contrails
to the clouds being clearly lit by sunlight,
even though it should be nighttime,
the total lack of motion on the background,
the particle emitters getting ahead of the objects
when they're moving, the clouds not being illuminated
by that bright flash of the airplane,
which it brightens the pixels,
but it doesn't actually change the direction of the light,
which is what should really be happening.
Like all these things add up.
And well, of course, I'm leaving out the biggest one,
which is, they almost have to ignore it
because then there's like, you can't talk about this.
It's no fun to talk about this.
But the fact of the stock footage,
stock footage overlaid at the end for the teleport,
like that's the biggest one.
You think that matches?
Yes.
If there's stock footage in your UFO shot,
well, then it's visual effects, right?
You just can't get anything.
I think we're good with this.
But you know, at the end of it all,
like I want this stuff to be real.
I want to find like UFO footage, UAP footage, whatever.
I want to find paranormal footage that I can't explain.
To me, that's thrilling, like I'm there, right?
But if we want to find the stuff
we need to be scientific about it,
which is what I'm trying to do here
by analyzing this and breaking it down,
looking at the visual effects elements here.
And yeah, you know, we actually have a show
that we do once in a while on our corridor crew channel
where we look at UFO footage like this
with all the visual effects artists here at the studio,
and we try to break down what visual effects techniques
we're noticing, if any.
If you guys want to check it out,
you can check out our YouTube channel at corridor crew.
I hope to see some of you there.
But yeah, that's it.
Danny, thanks for having me on.
I hope you guys enjoy the rest of your podcast.
I'm in your discussion.
Look forward to checking it out when it comes out.
Yeah, wow.
So what is your first initial gut reaction to that?
First reaction is not a thing that he said there is original.
Not a thing.
Every single thing that he's mentioned
has already been addressed and debunked.
And he said many false statements,
which unfortunately discredited him completely.
I think the biggest thing that he said though
is that there's perfect animation with zero issues.
So the first thing that's noticeable
is he didn't try to recreate it,
because he probably wouldn't have been able to.
The parallax, we've proven multiple times.
There is parallax effect, actually.
We have a video of proves the parallax effect.
So I'll just go ahead and pull that up.
Because, you know what I mean?
You're talking about the background of the clouds moving.
You have a video that shows the clouds moving in the background,
even though the drone was flying.
We do have a snippet that proves
that the clouds do move as well,
but we also have a statement that is from somebody
who's actually a debunker,
who actually claims that the clouds do move, yes.
So here, real quick, you're going to see proof
of the stereoscopic effect.
So I hope the corridor crew is watching.
And because I'll go ahead and,
the sound is a little bit extreme here,
because I think that they've really discredited themselves
pretty hardly with that video right there
that you just made, unfortunately.
Again, we've already addressed the fact
that this was not nighttime, or not daytime,
which he falsely thought,
that we're looking at a false color IR here,
and this is actually nighttime.
Again, there's no shadows anywhere, guys.
Then how is the directional light, though?
There isn't a specific direction of light.
What we're looking at is a computerized
recreation using the cyber system.
We showed you the videos where it's scanning
and pulling satellite data from all over.
So this is how, essentially,
you don't need to worry about the light effects
or anything like that.
The reason why we see higher illumination on the clouds
is because there's more IR radiation on the top of the clouds.
You can see the parallax effect very clearly right there.
So we do see a very clear parallax effect in our videos.
They actually zoom in just to prove
that what we're seeing is the parallax effect
and the clouds moving here.
There's no doubt about it.
From both sides, we are seeing the parallax effect.
Why is it wiggling?
Yeah, I don't understand what's going on.
That's the parallax effect.
We're looking at two different cameras.
That was not in the original video.
Right.
He was looking at a different version of the video.
So you probably should have pulled up
the registered nonversion,
which would have helped make this a lot clearer.
So again, unfortunately, for the corridor crew,
they did a pretty lazy attempt here.
What?
Now, you can see it wiggling pretty clearly here.
And this is somebody who did, I mean,
but now it's not happening.
Because now we stopped doing it.
He's showing it in terms of,
when you're looking side by side,
you can read the descriptions of the bottom here as well.
Okay.
So it's definitely showing that what we're seeing here
is a 3D stereoscopic.
So let's skip test that one real quick.
We also have a claim.
Let me just pull it here.
I don't know if I actually pulled the video
that shows whether there is absolutely cloud movement,
but somebody on Reddit,
who was actually somebody who was a debunker,
also said that they thought that there was...
I'm just not seeing the cloud movement.
Yeah. And because you're not seeing the cloud movement again
because of the distance.
So here's my cloud movement explain.
Clouds do move.
It's not simple as horizontal vertical movement.
So that's some way to expect from a 3D rendered scenes.
The clouds are moving.
There's a hyperlink right there.
If you want to type that in and pull that up,
or actually back in as well.
Yeah, just pull it up right there.
That's not a link.
I've got to type it in.
Oh.
That's the downside.
Emigre.com slash a slash...
What is it?
O-S-Y-S F20.
O-S-Y-S F20.
Okay, so we'll pull that up.
And while we're pulling that up,
I want to address a few other things that were false as well.
And how come if the satellite's moving 17,000 miles per hour,
you can't see anything moving?
Again, it's a cyber system, right?
So the cyber system is pulling the data
from the satellites,
recreating a 3D rendered environment,
similar to how you would fake something,
but it's actually just real.
And that's the big situation.
That's not rendered.
It's not a...
Well, that's why it's six frames per second as well,
is that it's a rendered environment
from a very big field of view that they're creating there.
And this is how that you can pull that data
from all those different locations.
And now you can have one clear image,
as opposed to try to track one satellite
that's moving very fast.
So for battle for the awareness.
So you're saying it's actually not video footage?
So yeah, theoretically,
that's not direct video footage from a satellite moving.
What they're doing is,
we just saw the cyber system scanning, right?
And that's how they're able to piece together
our 3D Google playback of the video.
And this explains half of the things
that he had issues with.
Another big one is the ZAP,
accurately illuminating the background.
This is also from a demo.
Oh, hold on, you're moving too fast.
Sure.
Does that link that work?
So it is rendered and it's not...
So that IR?
Right, so that's...
So that's another big thing too,
is that the whole issue with the thermals,
we're looking at an electro IR camera,
that had a thermal layer added over the top
by the Raytheon software that's built into the camera.
I'm talking about the satellite, yeah.
So from the camera, yes, it is an IR camera,
and what it's been able to do there is send that IR data
to a very advanced sophisticated computer system
that can build out the rendered 3D battle map
that we would use for battlefield awareness.
And that's why you're not gonna be tracking
a specific satellite moving around.
When you're trying on the military,
you're trying to track boats and planes,
you need to have that data pulling in nonstop,
using the SIGINT system, signals intelligence,
that relays all this information from different assets.
And then what I can do is you can fly in these planes,
these ARIES EP-32, or EP-3, or the Poseidon P-8.
These are very advanced signals intelligence aircraft
that can pull that data and create a 3D video playback.
And that's what we're theoretically seeing in those videos.
Does that make sense?
So that's my explanation for about a third of the things
that he describes in there.
In terms of the backlit,
this was just an objectively false statement.
You can see-
You're still saying it's the clouds from the satellite
is IR optics, right?
You can see the clouds moving in this one right here.
You can see the clouds wiggle.
In each individual one, you can see that cloud move.
Right?
And this isn't even a matter of the 3D stereoscopic.
The other one was proving
that we have a 3D stereoscopic parallax.
This one's proving you can see the clouds move.
Okay, so the clouds do move.
So unfortunately, that statement he made was false.
You can see the clouds moving, right?
We just all agree.
I can see a little bit of a-
Yeah, I can definitely see the image change,
like a little bit of a warp of that part of the clouds.
I'll leave it up so we can come back to it.
But like, yeah, somebody made this gif and reposted it.
This is not the video I just watched.
This is a gif of it, of that video, so.
It's not impossible this person tried to warp part of it.
Okay, well now we're stretching, but here-
I'm stretching.
I'm just dressing every single fact the guy made.
So, and here's another false,
he said that the clouds are not accurately illuminated.
This is proof that they are.
This was, again, made by somebody who's a debunker
who doesn't think the video's real.
But they were actually able to prove that that's actually,
that's accurate illumination,
backlit and front-line illumination from the zap.
We could actually even-
So this is from, who took this photo?
This is a color-scaled change version
so that you can see this.
This was posted by somebody who's,
God, I already forgot their name.
But yes, this was somebody who's actually from,
a lot of those claims that he posted there
came from a site called Metabunk.
This is another Metabunker who posted this,
and this is, yep, interesting enough,
you go look up, they think the videos are fake,
but they still prove that that claim
that was just made is false,
that the zap does accurately illuminate.
You can even tell when you're actually watching it,
we could see the zap illuminating.
And actually, that's another piece of evidence
for why it's nighttime.
Yeah, but what he's saying, though,
is he's saying when the zap happens,
the only part that illuminates are the pixels
that are already the brightest in the photo, right?
Like it's like they're upping the brightness on that.
But what he's saying is there's no directional change of light.
So like parts of the clouds that are already darker,
they aren't becoming brighter.
It's just the image is just,
the entire image is being brightened in that area
where the pixels are being-
This is proof that that's not true.
Absolute proof.
How is this, I don't understand how this-
Just read what it says.
Backlit, I know what backlit looks like.
So it's not the entire image that's being lit up.
It's actually different depending on how far away it is
and it's accurate.
This is not lit over here.
This one's being backlit.
I understand this.
Now show me where this correlates
to the video of the satellite.
Because this is the zap that we're seeing here?
No, no, go back to the satellite
and show me how this correlates to it.
You mean like this?
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, sure, we'll take a look.
So I'll just fast forward it a little bit.
Make it full screen, you make it full screen?
Yep, yep, yep.
So, and when he was showing this
just a few seconds ago as well,
when the zap goes off, you can see the color.
So see that light, see that flash, at least it's off?
Can you pause it on it?
It's kind of hard to hit it, but yeah, you know what I'm saying.
There you go.
Right there.
So this is actually accurately illuminating the clouds.
Down here, this is not being illuminated.
This is being backlit, backlit, frontlit.
But the parts, so if there is a blast right there,
you can, first of all, can we agree
that the clouds are being illuminated by something
and there's obviously a directional light source
going towards the clouds
because the top of the clouds is illuminated
and the bottom of them is not illuminated.
That's because there's more IR radiation
at the top compared to the bottom.
And that doesn't mean a directional light source.
So again, can we agree there's no shadows anywhere
in any of these videos?
So if there's no shadows, how is it daytime?
I see shadows.
There's a shadowy side of the cloud on the left
and then it clips what we in the video world
called clip where it hits white and then just plateaus.
Do you see any shadows on the water here?
Do you see any shadow from the plane flying past these clouds?
It literally flies in front of the cloud
and there's no shadow like right here.
I'm saying the cloud itself, it has.
The cloud itself has shadows.
It has a shadow on it, yeah.
The clouds lighter at the top and darker at the bottom.
Right here, it goes right in front of the cloud
and there's no shadow that gets cast onto the cloud.
Yeah, so.
So where's this directional light source coming from?
That's what I'm saying.
Like how would there be a directional light source
if it was at night?
There isn't one.
And there's no moon.
There isn't a directional light source.
And if it's a very, even he even mentioned as well,
theoretically, if this was a very low light environment,
you could even, this even could be just light
coming from stars, et cetera.
But I think that the answer is that it's just
simply not daytime, it's nighttime.
Okay, and then you think that the CGI explosion effect,
there's no shot in hell.
That there's no chance.
And also the effect that he used, the version he used
is actually the version that was the remastered version
from 2015.
If you go look at the older version,
it's so pixelated that no one would even think
that it could possibly be in our videos.
And your claim.
So I just want to pull this up too.
Just as a quick match here,
that if you look at this and you actually do like this,
you can see that they're not the same.
You can see these extra lines that we have
all over the place.
Like these lines is coming over the top.
Yeah, you can easily mask that out.
That's super easy.
But why would you mask it out?
Cause you're not comparing to something
that's already exists, right?
Cause you don't want to make it look unique.
You don't want to make it look like
in this stock effect.
So they accidentally made it look perfect.
No, they on perp, wait, what?
So all these extra dots that we see here,
like this dot right here, this dot up here,
the actual lining up of the middle effect
doesn't even line up.
That does not line up with this effect.
You can actually see the tail of the plane
sticking out on this one.
And now over in this one here,
you can see that it's not the same shape.
Right, but what are the chances
that the outer rim of this thing are 99% perfect
compared to this endothermic event that happened in the air?
Like how did they match that?
You can see it doesn't match right here, right?
You can see that this line here doesn't quite match here.
I mean, it's similar.
And again, all dispersial patterns are similar.
This has been compared to an ink drop.
This has been compared to a supernova
and you can do the same thing
with any of those effects as well.
So all supernovas look the same?
They all do actually look pretty much the same.
Again, because it's a dispersion pattern.
And then what's happening is the same thing that we see here.
But the most important part is that what we're seeing
is this endothermic event versus an exothermic event.
So if you, the best part is that
this is just like a dishonest attempt here
to try to get-
Dishonest?
Well, why is it dishonest, man?
Like look, like-
Because it's one frame.
This guy has been doing this his entire life.
He's a visual effects expert.
He has a YouTube channel with-
Sure.
Fricking tens of millions of views on it.
I mean, he has no incentive to-
And you're gonna take a third party word
from somebody who knows somebody
who's a VFX lead at Marvel on Reddit
over this guy who's literally going on video
and putting his credibility at risk
to talk about why this is real.
He's a VFX expert.
And you're like, your initial reaction is just like,
oh no, oh no, absolutely not.
No, I think that he made, as I pointed out,
he made several objectively false statements
before he even got to that point,
which then I immediately discredited him.
But yes, I was absolutely gonna believe
a Marvel VFX expert over some guy on Twitter
who claims to be an expert.
He's the guy, he's some random guy on Twitter
who claims to be an expert?
I've never heard of him, yes.
So I also wanna claim here that-
Your guy, the guy on Marvel was a random guy on Reddit, bro.
Like it was a-
He literally works for the biggest studios
that are out there, man.
Yeah, but you haven't even talked to him.
Have you sat down with him?
Have you discussed it on a podcast?
Have you had a conversation with him about breaking this down
and has he done an explanation in depth
the same way Nico has?
I don't even think I need to have that
because he's speaking about the timeframe
that would take to require it.
Did Nico try to even produce the videos?
No, he didn't, right?
That speaks a lot to whether or not he actually could.
Kordo Crew, the disclosure guy,
none of them even tried to do it.
Cause the reality is they know how much effort it would take.
It would take a huge amount.
And you've got between four and 70 days.
It's gonna take a whole team.
He even admitted that there's no issues
anywhere in the videos.
He couldn't even find one.
He made a bunch of statements
that none of them really added up.
And this right here, this is one of the worst one.
I can do the same thing and say this doesn't match, right?
It's not even close to the same.
You can see the black in the background.
This is not our effect.
Matching in a one single frame is not a debunk.
Even if that matched, even if it did,
I was hypothetically, I'll just, I'll humor you.
I wouldn't debunk any of the rest of the video, right?
That's the worst part about this attempt to debunk it.
Is that even if somehow this video effect
was in our final zap that we see,
it wouldn't debunk the rest of the video.
It's still MH370 in those videos.
It's in the Nicobar Islands
on the agreed upon fight path.
Yeah, but they could easily CGI a plane
that looks just like it
and they could easily add coordinates underneath it.
Like these guys-
That's a subjective statement.
You know, that's not a factual statement.
That's a subjective one.
And if they could do it, why didn't they?
If they could do it so easily,
everybody claims that they could do it so easily.
No one ever pulls up and does it.
And then when you ask them,
they say, oh, well, it would take too much time and effort.
It's not worth my time.
But what, some random people did it?
You know, it's very, I don't,
the thing that I'm not, that I miss,
that I don't really understand here
is why you are so quick to dismiss his analysis of this.
If this guy is a legitimate verified expert
not hiding behind a Twitter handle
or a Reddit handle, right?
And he's not, it's not just like some podcaster
saying, oh, I talked to a guy on the phone
and he told me it would take between four to six months.
He's the lead at Marvel.
Like this guy is telling you who he is.
Everybody knows who he is.
And he's giving you his analysis,
having decades of experience in this.
And I don't understand why you give somebody on Reddit
more credibility than you give him
and why you dismiss him so quick.
I judged him based on the things that he said.
He thought they were contrails, they're not.
It's smoke.
The reason why it probably gets hotter
is because the smoke is stacking up
and you're seeing it from an angle
where the smoke is lining up, right?
I mean, literally, it's not a matter
of what I think his credentials are.
And I think that people need to move away from that.
And specifically, just because someone claims to be an expert
does not mean everything they say is true.
Judge them based on the things they say.
This is critical thinking 101.
And this is what I think is missing the most
from places like Reddit, is that you go look at Reddit
and people say, oh, what's at the top?
Who's the expert?
Who's the person that says that?
That's not what matters.
You could be a Joshua off the street.
And as long as you're saying the truth
and making logical sense, then I'm gonna believe you.
And you think nothing that he said made logical sense.
Almost nothing.
Let's ruin it down.
Wrong about the parallax,
wrong about the clouds moving,
wrong about illuminating the flash.
I don't think he was wrong about any of that.
I don't think any of your examples
showed that that was wrong.
Okay, well, I mean, look, I've been doing it.
I love the viewers, Judge.
My biggest thing on the one frame
is all I have to say is how many pixels match
and tell me how long it takes to move all the pixels around
to get it to be a perfect match.
Tell me how hard it is to find a stock image
that was created in the 90s to perfectly match
an endothermic explosion that happened in 2014.
Apparently hard enough that no one can do it.
I mean, that was not a match.
So we're looking at it in the background right here.
These don't match.
I mean, this is your video.
I was looking at his video
where he was pulling the opacity.
Yeah, Nikos is pretty day-mackered.
This one's off.
Yes, exactly.
The reason why it's off is because
this is the whole visual effect, not just one frame.
More because you lined it up different
to make it look like it didn't match.
This actually lines up perfectly.
This is this, you can see right here,
is his exact frame right here.
No, it's not.
It's definitely not.
It's not lined up perfectly.
Nikos is more aligned than that one.
Can you pull Nikos up again?
Yeah, sure.
I'm not gonna stop you guys.
Just the one frame where he shows it,
like how does that little dot
and those edges of the little wave edges of the explosion,
how does it match so fucking perfectly?
How did the people that made this in the 90s
know that this is exactly what this explosion
was gonna look like in 2014?
Yeah, I mean, the first part is,
I'll pull up the older version, guys.
And then you're looking at the remastered version
that was made after in 2015 after our videos.
It actually post dates it.
Here's the earlier, does this look like it?
Oh, no, I'm pulling up the, I'm showing the...
So let's look at the older version
and not the remastered one and compare it as well.
Well, how do you know this was remastered?
Because we Googled it and you should check it out.
2015 version, it was remastered in 2015
after the dates of our videos.
It was near the middle of the video, Steve.
The one that he's looking at here
is the one that Mick West found, by the way.
It's not like this is his original work
that he found this, by the way.
Mick West said that it was found in 98, right?
Yeah, anyone thinks we're looking
at a 90s video game graphic from an obscure video game,
then you might just not be able to be reached
by the evidence, that would be my official statement on that.
I think the player is freezing up.
Well, we saw it.
Yeah, take a look at mine here.
So this is, I found the old 90s version of it online,
actually.
And so you can see here how pixelated this is.
It's a lot harder to compare.
That is not the original.
Yeah, it's definitely not.
You see how less frames there is as well?
This is actually when it got remastered.
It was the original.
They added additional frames.
This is a clip maybe from the video game
you're talking about.
That's where this comes from, yeah.
Yeah, but no, no, no.
Look, it wasn't created.
Do you understand that?
It wasn't just a part of the video game.
Somebody built the video game.
It takes the elements to put together
to create the graphics in the video game, right?
So that thing was an independent explosion
that came from somewhere that was added into the video game.
And this is a re-recording of the video game, right?
He found the exact element independent of the video game.
Who was he?
Nico.
Nico didn't find that.
This comes from an icy slide account.
Again, we've addressed that part.
That was posted on Reddit.
There was a one day old account.
There was a sock public account.
They've got manual approval by the moderators
of that account to post it.
Which then the only person who claimed
they found that afterwards was a guy named Mick West
on the same day.
He posted on the Metabunk forums.
Obviously Nico probably spends time on the Metabunk forums.
And that's how he found that same exact thing.
So are you saying that that graphic element
was created specifically to match
the endothermic explosion in the video?
I think that what they did was whoever wanted
to discredit the videos ran a program
to look for a specific asset that they could use
to try to discredit that would be similar enough
that would fool people just like it fooled you guys
to make it look as similar enough
that you would say there's no way that can't be it.
Even though I can say from, again, a factual statement,
they don't match on even a single frame.
Now you can say they're close.
Sure, that's a subjective statement.
How close would you say they are?
I would say less than 50% of the pixels match.
That's just my guess from looking at it.
But again, that's why I keep asking how many pixels match.
And the reason why no one answers
is because if you had to answer that question,
you would have to admit that they don't match.
And that's why no one does.
I would say it is impossible for that explosion
to match a VFX element that was made 10 years before
or eight years before.
And it doesn't match.
And that's the thing.
Dude, I mean, it's like so close.
It's like the little elements, the waves,
the points line up perfectly.
If you were to add that onto an effect,
throw some coloring, an invert on it,
a warp, scale it down a little bit different.
It's gonna be not exactly, but it's still,
all the little details are perfectly accurate.
The shape, the scale of it.
It's just a circle, man.
It's not some complex shape.
It's a circle.
It's not a circle.
It's a circle with a dispersion pattern
and the edges don't actually match.
So it's like.
It's not just a circle, dude.
There's so much more.
Here it is again.
You can see the edge doesn't even line up.
It's close.
And this is actually when you've scaled it down
to try to get it to match.
So it's already been falsified to a way
to try to make a perfect match.
You can already tell there's extra dots in here
that don't exist.
So they deleted these dots.
Why would they know how to delete these dots?
It's an original work.
It's not like you're talking to them.
What dots are deleted?
So this is the original.
Here's the other one.
The dot is still there.
You see these dots over here on the right?
These dots don't exist in the original.
That's because it doesn't quite match
because it was in a different point in time.
Why is this line up here as well?
Why is this line?
Why is this line down here, guys?
Come on.
You really think these are the same?
So I think the center is definitely different,
but the edges are perfect.
Yeah, and that's because all it takes is you line it up
and you resize it to try to get the edges to match.
And the problem is you can even tell
they don't perfectly match.
Right, they lined it up.
They resized it.
This is all we've got.
They masked out the interior or inverted it
and made it look more dense.
And then reshaped it.
I mean, it's a whole new, the center is all new.
Whoever did this, look, it's incredible work.
Like Nico said, it's incredible.
I mean, the fact that you talk in such absolutisms
as if it's absolutely real when you've been looking at it,
I'm just questioning what you're saying.
Like you're saying it's absolutely real.
I'm saying Nico's video is very...
Here's that one.
Only point that matches,
and it's not even a perfect match.
You can see all the extra dots that aren't there.
I mean, people have debunked the hell out of this attempt.
You can see that it's clearly not the same.
So for everybody watching, judge for yourselves.
You can see that these are not the same matches.
If I'm gonna take, if I'm gonna...
Go ahead.
If I know nothing about visual effects
and I know nothing about video compositing, right?
I am gonna be more convinced
and be likely to believe Nico,
Nico's breakdown of it
over somebody who has only been looking at this for two months.
I mean, okay.
Yeah, I think that that again...
And, okay, additionally, I would take...
I would be more willing to trust somebody like him
over somebody who posted on Reddit
that he was a visual effects lead for a Top Gun movie
when there's no verifiable evidence of who that person is.
You're not sitting down and talking to them.
I just don't understand why you wanna...
It seems like you're...
I feel like you are taking this personal
as if it's an attack on you, but no, it's not.
All it is is it's attacking the idea and the theory.
And you seem very, very attached to it
and offended that this guy is attacking
and trying to discredit this idea.
I would say you're just projecting your own emotions
and insecurity, frankly.
I have absolutely no problem with his posts.
I pointed out like five factually incorrect statements
he made and you're still willing to take him on his word.
Because he's been doing this for decades.
And that doesn't mean anything.
It doesn't mean anything
that he's been doing VFX for decades?
Not with regards to this, no.
How long ago it has even investigated these?
Not long enough to realize that it wasn't daytime.
Not long enough to realize there's a parallax effect.
Not long enough to realize the clouds move.
I mean, so why should I take the word of somebody
who's made several falsehoods that all he had to do
is go find this evidence that I found?
You don't have to.
But like, you should be open-minded to this kind of stuff.
And when real people come out
and try to do breakdowns of it
and try to break this down and try to debunk it,
you should be very open-minded to them
and not so defensive about it.
I was open-minded.
That's why I addressed every single point.
I didn't dismiss anything.
You said it's absolutely real footage
and there's no chance that it's VFX.
That's my opinion.
That's my opinion, yes.
And again, it's because he admits as well
it's perfect animation with zero issues.
So the rest of his subjective statements,
most of them are false.
And again, that's a statement of fact.
It's not contrails, it's not daytime, clouds move,
it's parallax, the illumination from the zap
accurately illuminates the clouds.
Like, these are the things that discredit him.
So I think that was a mistake for him to make that video,
but I respect that he's up to it.
He can have his own opinion.
And I would just ask that the viewers,
look at the evidence themselves,
as opposed to taking someone's credibility that-
Do you want to have like another VFX guy
who has the same experience if not more than he does
to sit down and analyze this
and give their true opinion on it?
I would like, if anyone thinks it's easy to make,
why don't they go ahead and make another original
in a similar vein without using any assets from our videos?
And I would like them to actually record how they do it
and see how long it takes them.
And then we can compare it
because we've got between four days and 72 days.
And what I would like for people to do
who wanted to bunk is build a story.
Don't just tell me and give me your expertise.
Tell me, what's the story on how a guy created it?
Registered and uncreated it?
What computers did he use when he did it?
How long did it take him to do that?
Why was he spending his own effort
where nobody else was willing to do so?
Give me another story that makes sense.
I've produced my story here that makes a ton of sense.
That explains what happened here
is that this video is a real.
Yeah, but how stuck are you with your story?
How willing are you to change your story?
Of course, very willing.
I literally, you can watch.
If you go read my Twitter,
you'll see that I've been one of the most open,
honest people about this whole situation.
I'm open about the fact that early on,
I thought that it was potentially non-human intelligence
until I dug into the investigation.
I didn't know what the situation was.
How long ago was that?
You thought it was non-human intelligence?
That was like right away, probably in August, early August.
You and I should go listen to my early podcast.
August of this year.
Yeah, I mean, I've only been investigating this
for three months.
If you wanna listen to my Investigate Earth podcast,
you will hear that my opinions,
and I was very scared during that time.
Have changed significantly in terms of the narrative,
but the evidence has stayed pretty much solid.
Now then, since then, and even then,
we thought, okay, is this an emergency event,
or is this espionage to some degree?
I've always been open in terms of the narratives.
So what people wanna listen to.
The reason, what I'm trying to get across here
is that the way you speak in such absolute terms
as if things are objective facts,
like what I'm trying to say and what Nico is saying
is subjective, but what you're saying is fact.
When I talked to people on this podcast,
for example, Tom O'Neill, he was an investigative reporter
who spent 20 years looking into the Manson murders.
He did spend more time on that story
than anybody on earth.
He flew all around the world to have in-person interviews
recorded on tape in their homes for 20 years,
and he put this all together in a book,
just released a couple years ago,
and he lays out all the evidence, all the interviews,
all the different theories,
tries to pressure test them against each other,
and at the end of the book, there's no conclusion.
He goes, I don't know what happened.
I don't have an opinion on what happened.
I did the research, and you guys should come up
with your own opinions, and you guys tell me what you think.
And the book is like, it's one of the number one
true crime books in history.
And the thing is, if he's sitting down here,
and I say, Tom, what is your opinion?
Like what is your personal opinion
on what you believe actually happened?
I can't pull it out of him.
He goes, I don't know.
He says, I don't know.
All I know is what I found out, where the evidence leads,
and you can come to your own opinion.
I think probably one, two, three, or four,
these are the only things that could have happened
from the investigations that I did.
He never once says that this is an objective fact,
unless it was something like if he's sitting down
with someone and they made a claim,
he can say, yes, this person in fact claimed this.
This CIA document in fact says this, right?
Like there's nothing, he doesn't speak in these same terms.
It's all kind of open-ended and investigative, right?
Yeah.
So that's, can you understand like why that's why people
want like get turned off to when you're communicating
in a way that things are absolute,
and you want to shut down people like Niko
when they're trying to poke holes in the story,
instead of like using all these people
from every single angle, whether they're
corroborating you or whether they're going against you,
trying to use that all, put it together, find out
what fits and figure out what the truth actually is.
That's exactly what I'm doing.
And I'm just giving my opinion in terms
of what I think happened.
I've been always 100% clear that anyone's free
to believe whatever they want from this narrative perspective,
but the facts will remain the facts.
And what I said, if I say something I'm saying
as a factual statement, then I'm making a factual claim.
So when I say that the VFX doesn't match
on even a single frame, that's a factual claim.
When I say that I think that it was a fire event,
that's an opinion.
You don't think it matched though,
but you're not a VFX expert, right?
You're looking at it from a layman perspective.
You haven't sat down with three or four VFX supervisors
from Marvel, right?
You haven't sat down with them and had the conversation
with them and gone frame by frame like Niko just did.
I think we just addressed that part.
And I think that I've addressed all the specific claims
that you made in there that which were untrue.
So again, I don't think somebody
but what I'm saying is you addressed it.
Like you haven't had these other experts come in
and try to pick apart what Niko did.
Like you're doing it yourself
and saying it's your opinion, you understand?
I understand that part in terms of what I claimed in there.
I think I've adequately addressed everything
that he mentioned in there.
So the key point is that the VFX does not match.
That was his strongest claim that as a matter of fact,
does not match on a single frame.
I wanna make sure I'm saying that again.
As a statement of fact, it does not match on a single frame.
How many pixels match?
If it's not a hundred percent, it's not a match.
And it's a matter of fact that that explosion
is not a graphic element that was added.
That is a matter of fact.
That is a fact you're saying.
That is a fact, yes.
The thing is you just don't sound like someone
who wants to find the truth.
You sound like someone who's like defending your theory
to the death.
You know what I mean?
You can believe whatever you want.
I mean, I'm just telling you like what it sounds like.
You just, you don't sound like any investigative journalist
I've ever talked to in that sense.
You just sound like, you sound like it's somebody
on Twitter who is fighting and it's all,
it's my way or the highway.
You understand what I'm saying?
To me, it sounds like you've got it.
It's just an idea.
It's not you.
It's just an idea.
You're not attached to it.
I mean, I would counter that because it sounds like to me
that you've got invested in this idea
that it has to be fake, right?
You told me ahead of time you were extremely skeptical.
You obviously went and found this guy and had him come
and try to make this claim
because you wanted to be able to prove that.
So I would just say it seems like you're projecting
your own insecurities.
For me, I'm not against it whatsoever, right?
If you can come back and maybe next time he can go look
at it and not make so many factual errors,
I'd be happy to listen, right?
But like right away, I guess I think there was like six
to eight factual errors that were made in that video.
And when I judge people,
I don't judge people based on their background.
I don't think they were like,
you haven't proven to me that they were factual though.
We're not gonna get past it so we can just move past it.
I don't think they were factual errors.
I don't think anything that you showed.
I completely disagree with the clouds.
I think they're not moving.
I think that that VFX element matches perfectly.
But...
The evidence speaks for itself, I think either way.
Yes, I agree.
We'll let the people decide.
Sounds good to me.
Let's move on past this to the guy who you think
is the man who was the whistleblower behind this.
Yeah, I mean, and here's another part too,
is that we think we actually found the guy
who literally leaked the videos.
The ones that you think apparently are faked by somebody
and use a 90s visual effect, right?
That's so, I mean, you don't have to get mad at me.
I'm just, you sound upset.
Yeah, I'm not attacking you.
You have to understand, like this is good
that you have people attacking it like this
because it's only gonna, you have to get people
that are just as credible as he is
and just as knowledgeable as he is
to show why he's wrong.
And I can't wait for that to happen.
Yeah, I mean, maybe.
I think that the reason why you made this text
some level of hostilities,
we moved past the visual effect thing like two months ago.
People are still hung up on that.
Like I realized we're not gonna be able to reach everybody.
Some people are just too close-minded
and they're not gonna be able to accept
that what we see is real in these videos
and I'm not trying to attack you in this particular case.
Just people in general, right?
I'm not gonna be able to convince everyone.
I'm trying to reach people who wanna change the world,
who realize there's more to this world
than what they're told by experts
and what they're told on TV.
And so really that's my intention here.
So if I am coming off that way, I don't mean to.
But it is gonna be, you know, it's a contentious situation.
One of the things that I've promised
is that I'm not gonna let other people set a false narrative.
I just think like you gotta do your best
to not get angry at this stuff.
I think that's really important.
Oh, I agree.
Yeah, I really just need,
I really need a technical explanation
from somebody who like does this stuff
or has been like involved in this stuff like hands-on.
Like I really just, I wanna hear it from the horse's mouth
when it comes to this kind of stuff
because it's so phenomenal, you know?
And there's in every single online category
you could imagine when it comes to conspiracies,
you could always find people who just they want their,
they wanna find the meaning of life
and they want their life to be the Da Vinci code.
Yeah, that's not me.
I don't wanna be famous.
In fact, I would like to go back
to being a normal person one day if that's my option.
I think I've been pretty clear about that as well.
The only reason why I picked this up
is because I didn't think anybody else would do it.
Oh man, it's, you're doing a lot of incredible work.
And whether I agree with it or not,
I commend you for that.
So thank you for coming down here and doing this.
Tell people where they can find you online
and all the work you're doing.
All I wanna do is get the evidence out there
to a wider audience so that people
can come to their own conclusions.
And if you wanna follow me,
you can follow me either on Twitter,
at JustX Ashton.
You can follow me on YouTube.
Also at JustX Ashton, I've been streaming
a lot of the work that I've been doing on a nightly basis
so that people can follow along,
they can follow my thought process
in terms of what we're going through as well.
And then you can also now follow me on Instagram.
I'm actually on Instagram now at JustX Ashton as well.
I'm not sure how much I'm gonna post there.
It's just a lot of work.
I'm not a big fan of social media,
but it's important that I think we get the evidence out there.
What I wanna do is empower the individuals.
And that's the reason why all evidence lists
that we went through today,
I posted out there on Twitter as well
so that when people do come with the arguments,
we can come back with the evidence say,
here's what the evidence is.
You know, here's why the official narrative is bunk essentially.
So thank you again, Danny.
All right, you heard it here.
Goodnight, folks.
