We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
We're back for round two
with Florida's favorite credit card scammer, John Boziak.
For those of you who haven't already watched
the first Earth Shattering podcast we did with John,
he is a notorious cyber criminal
and the most prolific manufacturer of counterfeit credit cards
in the international cyber crime industry.
Matt Cox actually met him in prison
and wrote a book about him called Bent,
which is linked below.
Lace up your boots, boys and girls.
We get into all kinds of crazy conspiracy shit on this one.
Please welcome the dark lord of credit card fraud,
John Boziak.
Boom, John Boziak is back on the concrete podcast.
What's up, bro?
Back, back again.
What are you doing down here in Florida?
Back again by popular demand.
By popular demand, yeah, your podcast.
The fans demanded it.
I think we're at 325,000 views as of right now.
On fire.
As soon as we cut those cameras on the last fucking,
that first podcast we did,
I told you it was gonna do numbers.
Yeah, you did.
Like I told you, I was like,
this one's gonna do some fucking numbers for sure.
Imagine if you wouldn't have ate 500 milligrams
right before we did that.
Yeah, it hampered my speech a little bit.
It'll do it.
We got a little halftime,
a little halftime smoker right there,
a little halftime doink.
Oh, thank you, Jesus.
Yeah, he brought it.
I was going to call and ask,
but I was like, I don't wanna be like that, dude.
You know what I'm like, fucking.
Yeah.
But obviously you know.
Oh yeah, okay.
We're good.
We got to take care of this time.
Yeah, and you brought your lady friend with you?
I did bring my lady friend with me.
Do you wanna tell everyone how you guys met?
Am I in this right now?
No, they can't see you.
You're in the wide shot.
I would love to not be in this.
That's okay, you can sit over there
if you don't wanna be in the camera.
No, yeah, she had seen the first podcast.
Obviously, everybody's fucking seen the podcast.
And she started, I guess, apparently,
subscribed to my YouTube channel
and started watching my videos and fell in love with me.
It was love at first sight.
Yeah, she fell in love with me.
And then she went ahead and hit me up on social media.
We started, then opened up a dialogue
and we just got to know each other and now we're banging.
Hell yeah.
That's beautiful, man.
It is beautiful.
I'm touched by that, cheers.
Thank you, Danny.
This is all, we owe this all to him.
You can thank me later.
Just invite me to the wedding.
Liquid death, oh, for sure.
Hell yeah, our first legit sponsor, liquid death.
A water sponsor, we're moving up.
I like the ice, dude.
Is that credit card new?
That iced out credit card?
Yeah, I got the Visa.
I got the Chase card.
Hold it up a little bit higher so people can see it.
Damn.
I gotta have the credit card.
That's pretty sick, man.
Super fire.
The platinum chase card.
Yes, sir.
So what's up with your life, man?
What have you been doing ever since we did the podcast?
Man, dude.
It's been what?
It's been like six months since you came on.
I think, what do we do it in December,
November, December, something like that?
Is that what it was?
Yeah.
Maybe, I don't know.
No, it was way before that.
Yeah, I think it was, I think it was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dude, that whole thing.
Get a little bit closer to the mic.
That whole thing is, it's launched my life
into a whole fucking different direction, man.
When I came here and did this first podcast,
I didn't have a YouTube channel.
You know what I mean?
I had 200 followers on fucking Instagram.
I didn't have a YouTube channel.
I was, you know what I mean?
I was just tattooing.
You know, I wasn't really doing shit.
Like I wasn't promoting myself.
I wasn't promoting the book really.
The book was just kinda doing its thing.
I did this podcast and it was like overnight craziness.
You know what I mean?
I've done probably 15 or 20 podcasts since this one
because people see the numbers that this one does
and they want me to come on theirs
because they think it's gonna, you know what I mean?
So they all want to ride that wave.
So I did this and then I've done,
everybody's, people are flying me out to Dallas.
You know what I mean?
I'm doing MSCS and up and down in West Palm Beach.
I do that like once a month now.
I launched my own YouTube channel.
I've got about 50 or so videos already up
on my YouTube channel.
I went and got a, I went and built a studio
in downtown Phoenix.
Like I went and rented like a legitimate office
and I got the professional lighting, the mics,
the fucking, you know what I mean?
The good cameras.
I'm running a Sony Alpha 64 hundreds.
I got, you know, a couple of those.
And yeah, so I'm rocking and rolling, man.
You know, like this whole thing is just absolutely,
it's insane, dude.
Now I'm addicted.
You know what I mean?
I'm addicted.
It's amazing what it's done for Matt Cox too.
He really took that opportunity and ran with it.
Ran with it.
Now when I talk to Matt Cox on the phone,
he's traveling to some different state,
some different country, he just did a commercial
for some fucking home security company.
Yeah.
He's crushing.
He's everywhere.
Matt Cox is with a big deal.
What did you guys just do?
I'm trying to do what he's doing.
And I'm kind of, I mean, he got the big ones.
He got like the Vlad and he got fucking value attainment.
You know what I mean?
He was on like the real big ones.
Yeah.
You know, now I'm knocking out all the little guys
before I can get up to the big guys.
Yeah, you'll get there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So yeah, no, I did, I just did the Marty Ray project.
He's a podcast.
He's a guy out of Nashville.
He's got like a 600,000 subscribers
or something like that on his channel.
He's a musician and he does a podcast.
You know, I just recently did that.
I just recently did Beck Lovers podcast.
I did tap in.
I flew out to Dallas and did tap in.
I did, what else did I do?
So many.
Like I get, and then like all the opportunities now
that are coming up.
Like I do, I wake up to a hundred DMs
on fucking Instagram every single day, every day.
It's just insane.
You know, and then you got all the idiots that, you know,
because they seen the podcast,
they know teach me how to do the fucking,
you know what I mean?
Teach me how to, I made a whole video on that.
That's just fucking absolutely bananas.
Have you taught anybody how to do credit card?
No, well, listen, I'm charging,
I was charging a thousand dollars a consultation.
You know what I mean?
Like you want to talk to me, you want to access to me.
If you feel like I have some information
that's going to make you millions of dollars
and you're going to pay for it.
So I was charging a thousand dollars a consultation.
Now I'm charging five.
Oh yeah.
Five thousand?
Five thousand.
If you want to talk to me, if you want,
if you want my time, now my time, it went up
because now honestly, I barely get any sleep, dude.
I'm still tattooing at the shop eight, 10 hours a day.
And then I go straight from the shop to the studio
and I record YouTube till one or two o'clock in the morning.
You know what I mean?
And I do that every day.
And then I fly in and I'm flying.
I'm doing podcasts in different cities.
And then, you know, I got all these other shit
I'm working on, you know, got the bigger projects.
And it's like, I barely even sleep.
So now my time is valuable.
Maybe before I had time to bloat,
I had time to burn, you know what I mean?
Now I'm fucking, you got to fucking pay me my money.
How many $1,000 consultations have you done?
Quite a few.
Really?
Yeah, quite a few.
Wow.
That's fucking insane.
Yeah.
Quite a few.
Oh my God.
Listen, I got guys flying out to feed.
How do they get a hold of you?
I got guys wanting to fly out from other cities
to come sit down and have lunch with me.
How do these people get a hold of you
if they want to get a consultation?
They all DM me on Instagram, you know,
and then we just go from there.
Wow, what a fucking business.
Yeah, it's pretty wild.
That's pretty amazing.
So you're still tattooing?
I am, yeah.
You know, it's I love doing it
and I make really good money doing it.
So why stop?
Are you going to stay living in Arizona?
You like it there?
I think eventually I'm going to make my way back to Florida.
So yeah, but no, I like Arizona.
It's nice and, you know, the cost of living is low,
but dude, those summers are fucking brutal.
We're talking 120 degrees, 125 degrees,
you know, for four or five months out of the year, you know?
So yeah, it's just brutal, man.
It's brutal.
So I don't know if I'm going to stay there
and then, you know, I got other things going on,
you know, business opportunities
and I'm looking at a lot of things, you know, taxes
and so I don't know.
And I'm from here.
I mean, this is my home and I'm comfortable here, you know?
So I'm thinking about coming back.
Are you going to go, if you come back,
are you going to go back to the East Coast?
Or are you going to come to this coast?
I like Tampa, South Florida's where I grew up
and that's where I got into shit at, you know what I mean?
So I'm kind of, I might kind of just try and avoid it
if I can a little bit.
I don't want to go too close.
Yeah, I keep it somewhere up here.
Maybe Orlando, Tampa, St. Pete, Brandon, you know what I mean?
Clearwater.
Yeah, Orlando's a great spot.
Yeah, yeah.
I was going to ask you, what were you guys doing in Daytona?
Weren't you guys filming some sort of like crazy project?
I was in Jacksonville.
I was in Jacksonville working on a bigger project
that I can't really talk about.
And I don't want to fucking ruin it.
I can't tell you about it, that's a thing.
What can you say?
What can you give me on it?
I filmed, I may or may not have filmed a part of something
that may become a documentary later down the road.
And that's really all I can say.
So they filmed something that is being pitched
to big networks.
Major networks, yeah.
Cool, yeah, yeah.
That's pretty exciting.
All I know is I saw that picture from Matt Cox
of you wearing a robe, like smoking a cigar.
It was ridiculous.
They had me in a mansion,
and you know, it's just giant fucking gaudy mansion.
They rented out?
It was Airbnb.
Yeah, they rented out.
It was like fucking, it was expensive.
Yeah, you know, they had me in a cigar
and a robe coming downstairs,
and you know, all kinds of different scenes.
Listen, I've seen some of the stuff they cut.
They made me look way fucking cooler than I am.
You know what I mean?
They made me look like Pablo Escobar or somebody like that.
You know, just the cinematography
and like the way they captured the light
and just the music and the way they're doing everything,
it's gonna be fucking cool and it's gonna sell.
How many days were you there filming?
Five days.
Five days, yeah.
I filmed every day.
And how much can they possibly film in five days?
I'm sure like many days of it was just B-roll
and like cinematic looks type stuff.
Well, basically we would film during the day.
We would just film like, you know,
interview shit during the day
or you know, other things that we were doing
like for the story and then like at night
when we wrap up the day shooting,
we'd film like B-roll shit, you know,
like cinematic out in the public and public or whatever.
Yeah, it was cool.
It was really cool.
It's a weird thing how like now big TV networks
and production companies that sell shit to TV networks,
all they're doing is just scouring the internet
for like popular podcasts to try to find content.
Yeah, listen, I got approached by two different people
from Vice TV trying to fucking do something with me.
They wanted, they had some kind of series
that they were doing with people who did major like crimes
when they were younger and then turn their life around
or some shit.
You probably maybe have seen about a couple of episodes.
I think they had one with a dude who was like,
I apparently sold millions of dollars worth of cocaine
or something like that in New York when he was a kid
and they had some other dude on there.
I don't remember his story,
but I think that's the series that they wanted me for.
And it's like, I can't even,
I can't do anything with anybody else.
Oh, because that company that you shot the pilot with,
they got you under some sort of exclusivity agreement.
It just wouldn't be right at the end of the day.
It wouldn't be right because I think it would hurt me
more than it would help.
How long do they have you locked up in that agreement for?
Do you know, we don't, I think six months.
Six months, that's not bad.
Over a year would not be good.
No.
Because they can't sell it in six,
if they can sell it in six months, that's great,
but it goes longer than that.
It's gonna sell.
It's gonna sell right away.
It's not even gonna take six months.
Have they even started pitching it yet?
I'm not sure where they're at in the product.
You know what, I'm hands off on this thing.
Like I don't call them and like,
what's going on?
What are you guys doing?
You know what I mean?
Like I'm just like, dude, you guys do your thing.
You know what I mean?
Like I'm just gonna sit back and call me
when it's time to collect a check.
Get me up when you're ready.
You know what I mean?
When it's time for me to fucking make a deposit
into my Chase account, then give me a call.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Cause I can't control anything.
I have no creative say so and anything like that.
And it's just like,
I got so much other shit going on in my life
that I just, I just leave it alone, dude.
I let them people just do their fucking thing.
And I think they kind of liked that anyway.
You know?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's a weird thing.
What did you think about the whole process
of like those guys like bringing in all those cameras,
setting up all that stuff like Corey,
like orchestrating everything to make it look like some,
it's a lot of fucking work, right?
I got, I got to peek behind the curtain, man.
You know, and I got to kind of see
how the whole machine works, you know?
And that's cool.
Cause you watch the behind the scenes shit sometimes,
you know what I mean?
When you do, you know, like HBO behind the scenes
and all that shit.
But it doesn't, it doesn't do any justice
when you're there, you know what I mean?
You got guys running cables, running cables
and changing lights around and, you know,
putting up light boxes and, you know,
like fucking chatting.
It's just a whole thing.
And then you've got the sound guys with the,
yeah, it's cool, man.
It's cool.
I can get used to that, man.
I'm the talent.
Yeah, right.
So I don't have to do no work.
Yeah, you're good.
You know what I mean?
You want a soda?
You fucking, you hungry?
You know what I mean?
You know, between scenes, fucking just, you know,
taking a nap or whatever, fucking, you know,
and then when they say fucking roll camera,
I'm, I'm, then I got to jump to it.
You know what I mean?
And that's, that's my part I play in it.
You know what I mean?
So.
So how many vice actually emailed you
and try to get you to do something?
I had two different, I had one lady reached out
who said she was with vice,
but really she was with an independent production company
that I think works for vice.
Vice contracted, yeah.
And then actual vice TV actually, cause I ignore her
and I just didn't respond to her.
Actual vice TV reached out after that and, and contacted me.
And, you know, I was, I told him, I was like, listen,
as of right now I can't, I can't do anything.
I can't do any movies or TV podcasts are fine.
As long as I, you know, don't open the can of worms.
And, you know, you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, yeah, I can't do any TV or movies
or anything for right now.
But I was like, in the future,
it doesn't mean I can't in the future.
I'm just, I'm like, I'm, I'm contractually obligated
right now as of right now.
I can't, I can't do anything like vice.
I'm sure it'll pay me a couple of grand to go wherever
and shoot, but it's just like, that's peanuts
compared to what I got coming.
The big thing.
So I don't want to fuck this up with, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I know they did something with Matt Cox,
but I don't know if I ever saw,
I don't know if it ever came out.
They did, yeah.
I think they did, Matt did something with them.
I don't, I don't remember what it was he said.
They flew him out and paid him like fucking.
Well, I think they shot it like in Tampa, right?
I thought he said Miami.
Was it Miami?
Yeah.
They flew him down to Miami, some mansion and shit.
Yeah.
And they just interviewed him.
They just sat him on a stool and fucking interviewed him.
So if you did some sort of, if somebody,
let's just say some big company, some big network
bought this project that you guys shot,
what would it be like?
Would it be like a serialized documentary?
Would it be just a one shot like two hour film?
And see, that's the thing that right now
we just don't know.
You don't know what the format will be.
Yeah, because it's like, say they take it to FX.
FX might want to make it into a series.
You know what I'm saying?
Or say they take it to Hulu and Hulu just wants
to shoot it as a doc.
Right.
You know what I mean?
Which it's cool because that doc could lead to a series
or could lead to a feature length film.
You know what I mean?
Or they could take it to like, you know,
try to attach like a big name to it
and take it to like a big production company
and they can be like, fucking, let's just run
with this thing and make it a feature film.
You know, so like all that shit's up in the air right now.
Which is a fucking exciting that that's,
all this is even an option for me.
You know what I mean?
I think even a more interesting spin off
would just be you selling $1,000 consultations on Instagram.
That's a documentary.
I would love to hear one of those phone calls.
Yeah, listen, I gotta get my money, man.
I gotta get my money.
If we did this live, we'd give people to call in live.
That would have been amazing.
I gotta get my money.
You know what I mean?
At the end of the day.
Don't you worry though about like,
if somebody did do some crazy shit
and you taught him how to do it,
that you could get in trouble?
Are you still like in, are you still on probation?
No, I'm, I'm nothing.
I'm nothing.
Oh, so you're not locked down like Matt.
Nope, they killed my paper, man.
Yeah, when I went back on violation,
they gave me nine months
and then they just cut me loose
and was like, dude, you're not supervisable, apparently.
That's what the judge told me.
You're not supervisable.
But I'm not.
In a bad way or a bad way.
So how did you get, so for people
that haven't watched the first,
people that haven't watched the first podcast,
give me like a brief synopsis of your whole case
and then like the end of it.
Like what happened at the end to where
you got to where you are now?
Sure.
So 2009, I walked into a UPS store
and there were two secret service agents waiting on me.
The elderly gentleman who ran the UPS store
took it upon himself to open one of my packages
and find what I was sending out,
which he wasn't supposed to do.
He was supposed to contact the postmaster general.
The postmaster general was,
has the authority to come and open my mail
once it's been sealed.
So that right there got 12 years knocked off my sentence.
12 or 13 years knocked off my sentence.
They had to get rid of basically everything.
Any of the evidence that they got,
because that's how they, you know what I mean?
Because they got it from a fraudulent way.
Basically you got to throw all of that out, right?
Yeah.
Whatever was found from that process.
Gone, gone.
So all the credit cards gone, all the equipment gone,
all the mail fraud.
The only thing they could actually stick on me
was the aggravated identity theft,
because I did have somebody else's driver's license
with my picture on it.
So I got the aggravated identity theft,
which carries a mandatory 24 months.
And that's what I,
and that's what I eventually ended up
getting charged with and sentenced.
And it took them three years to indict me.
So this happened in 2009.
I didn't even get picked up until 2012.
Right, and they indicted you where,
where you were somewhere in the Northeast, right?
I was in Tampa.
You were in Tampa?
I was here in Tampa when I got picked up.
I got fucking with the Hillsborough County Jail,
and then they shipped me out to St. Pete,
and I sat in St. Pete until they could extradite me
all the way down to South Carolina,
to where I could see a judge.
Oh my God.
And then you went from South Carolina back to Miami, right?
Because I'm, because I live here,
they wanted to send me to prison in my home state.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah.
That's why I ended up doing all my time in Ocala,
up in Coleman, where I subsequently met Matt
and wrote the book and everything, but yeah.
Yeah, so yeah, so then I, you know, I served my time.
I did my 24 months, I get out.
And I'm in halfway house in Miami,
and then I did my halfway house,
did my six months halfway house,
but it's like, when I got out of prison,
I didn't have anything.
Like, all of my shit had somehow magically
fucking just vanished and disappeared.
I had no clothes, no shoes, all my jewelry was gone,
everything was fucking gone.
You know, my wife, you know, I don't know.
She fucking, you know, barely speaks English,
and it's just like, it's fucking, it's just ridiculous.
So, you know, so I'm coming home to shit.
I'm getting into a halfway house with shit.
I was wearing prison sweatpants, prison fucking Nikes,
and that's all I had.
I didn't have anything else.
And so I had to get a job.
I had to work for six months for $9 an hour,
and somehow they were taking like 30% of my net income
before taxes, the halfway house was,
which I'm like, you know, that's kind of a bummer,
but it's, you know, it's better than sitting in prison.
So, you know, and I get to actually go out
into the world and fucking, you know what I'm saying?
Like, work.
So that was cool.
And I worked for like six months at the halfway house,
and I saved a little bit of money.
And then I got a, like a fucking one bedroom.
It wasn't even a one bedroom.
It was a studio apartment in Little Havana.
It was on like 20th and Flagler,
right by Miami High School.
Right, in the neighborhood I fucking grew up in, pretty much.
And, you know, it was like 8.50 a month,
which was like, you know, whatever.
But it was like, dude, I didn't have a car,
I didn't have no money.
I'm working at a warehouse for like 12, 11 bucks an hour.
And I had to, I had to wake up at four o'clock in the morning.
I had to walk from 20th and Flagler,
all the way downtown Miami.
I had to catch the very first train
that leaves the station in Miami,
and our north to Hialeah,
to catch the very first bus leaving the bus station,
to go another hour to my warehouse job.
And then at the end of the day,
I had to do all of that all the way back over again
to get home.
So I wasn't, I was looking up at four in the morning
and I wasn't getting home till 10 o'clock at night.
I couldn't do it.
Like I just, I did it for like,
I got out of Halfway House in February
and then by June or July, I was fucking over it.
I was fucking over it, I couldn't do it anymore.
You know what I mean?
So it's just like, and I was hanging out with some people
that kind of knew what I,
all the money I'd made and what I had done,
and they had some money that they were willing to invest.
And I was like, fuck it, let's do it.
You know what I mean?
Let's fucking gas up for another run.
And I was like, dude, I just got out of prison
for this shit, but dude, I was just like,
I'm gonna kill myself.
I'm gonna fucking, the landlord's gonna come in
and they're gonna find me stinking
and fucking swinging from the fucking ceiling
in this shit hole apartment.
And that's gonna be my life.
And I'm just like, no.
So if I have to go back,
if I have to risk going back to prison
to get myself out of the situation,
and that's just what I'm gonna do.
And I don't give a fuck.
You know what I mean?
That was my mindset.
Shit went south almost immediately.
You know, some shit got sent to my house
that wasn't supposed to get sent to my house.
And then, you know, the fucking Miami financial crimes
fucking unit was at my apartment
asking me a bunch of questions.
You know, shit went fucking south
and I ended up going back on the run.
You know, like, upsconding from on probation
and going back on the run.
I took off out to Nebraska because my wife disappeared
and she calls me from Nebraska and she's got my son.
She wanted me to come out there and help her with my son.
And I'm like, well, fuck, I'm on the run right now.
She didn't know I was on the run.
And I'm like, fuck, all this shit just went down.
I'm like, fuck it.
I'll go hide out in the cornfields.
Cause there isn't shit in Nebraska, but corn and cattle.
You know what I mean?
That's it.
Now this is the perfect fucking place
for me to go out there and lay low
and kind of, you know, just figure things out.
So I go out to Nebraska and that just turned
into a fucking absolute shit show.
You know, my wife was fucking, you know,
she was on drugs and the whole fucking,
the whole thing was just fucking bad.
It was all bad.
So somehow the cops ended up coming to my house
cause I offered some shit that had nothing,
absolutely nothing to do with me.
Like somebody broke into somebody's trailer
and for some reason they put me in it.
You know what I mean?
Like they said, I had something to do with it.
And like I had nothing to do with any of it.
It's just fucking bad luck.
So the cops come to my house
wanting to ask me questions.
And of course they're going to run me.
You know what I mean?
They're going to run me when they get there
and I had a warrant.
So they fucking, I went.
So I had to go back in front of the judge.
You know what I mean?
So then I'd get extradited all the way back out
to fucking South Carolina from Nebraska,
which took another three and a half months.
You know what I mean?
Going on con air and then, you know,
Oklahoma holding facility and fucking, you know,
back in Atlanta.
Holding facilities across the country for three months.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No commensary because you're in the shoe
because you're only going to be there for a week or two
or three before they fucking ship you back out again.
So you don't get commensary.
You know what I mean?
They barely fucking feed you.
You know, so it was, it was bad, man.
So yeah, I get back in front of the judge
and she gave me, by the time I got in front of the fucking
judge, I had already done almost nine months.
It took me damn near fucking, God was it really that long?
I think it was like six months or something.
It took me to get, to get back in front of the judge
because for whatever reason, it was my luck.
I got picked up and like right before Thanksgiving in November.
And that's the worst time to get trying to get shipped
around the country is between the holidays
because dude, they're not shipping anybody.
So you might sit somewhere for a month or two
before the next fucking bus rolls out to stick you on a plane
to ship you out to Oklahoma.
You know what I mean?
Before you get designated and all that shit.
So I finally get back in front of the fucking judge
and she says, this bitch, I think I'm getting out.
At this point, I'm like, okay,
I just did six months on my violation.
You know what I mean?
Like my violation, in the federal system,
there's different tiers of violations.
You know what I mean?
So my violation was like a one.
And it only carried like a six month guideline
for the violation.
I just did fucking six months.
So in my mind, I'm going in front of the judge
and I'm like, okay, she's gonna give me six months
on violations, she's gonna wave her finger at me
and kick me, that's all she can do.
This bitch gave me another 30 days to think about it.
Yeah, yeah, another 30 days.
Your release date is 30 days from now.
Wow.
To sit and think about what you've done.
You bad boy.
You know what I mean?
Fucking bitch.
But this was the golden lining in all of it.
She told me, she's like, listen,
we've had to extradite you from two different states
multiple times.
She's like, you've absconded from your pre-trial release
before you were even sentenced.
You absconded on your federal probation,
which you only have three years of.
You're not supervisable,
but you're not a danger to the public either.
You know what I mean?
Cause I don't have any violence in my history.
I'm not a raper or a fucking stabber or nothing like that.
You know what I mean?
So it's just like, I'm not gonna hurt anybody.
So I really wasn't a risk.
So apparently this is my takeaway from it.
She told me I'm not supervisable,
but I'm not a threat to the community either.
So 30 more days and we're gonna go ahead
and just kill your paper.
And they fucking kicked me out the door
with no probation or no fucking nothing, dude.
Just a free man.
I was like, whoo, you know what I mean?
Dude, I was like, fuck yeah.
So it was kind of good that I violated my probation
and went back and did the six months
because or else I would have been on fucking paper
for three more years.
How many more people have you heard of
that's happened to?
Nobody.
Nobody, right?
I've never heard that happen in the fucking anybody.
No, because there's tons of people
that are locked up for nonviolent shit
selling little bits of weed here and there
or whatever it might be.
Stupid drug charges.
I fucking, you know, she was a cunt,
but I guess she was being nice.
And maybe I just thought, in my brain, I'm like,
this bitch, but dude, she was just like,
yeah, I mean, it's costing the United,
it's costing the government too much money
to keep having to come and get you and fucking,
you know what I mean?
Because every time they come and get me,
they have to employ the US Marshals.
They can't just send the local sheriff to come find me.
It's the US Marshals.
So they come in tactical gear and the whole fucking nine.
You know what I mean?
And a lot of money spent on that.
It's a lot of money, yeah.
So I'm just costing too much fucking money.
You're too expensive.
Do 30 and get the fuck out of here.
That's it, man.
30 more days, you're done.
You know, because I mean, listen,
I had no criminal record essentially before.
I mean, I had a very eventful youth.
Don't get me wrong.
I was in youth homes and boys homes,
but all that shit sealed.
So as an adult, you know, I had a few minor run-ins,
you know, maybe some shoplifting in my early 20s
or something like that I got picked up for,
but nothing, you know, so I had no criminal record.
Like I wasn't.
Yeah, nothing violent.
Yeah, that's my, that's my assessment of it.
Yeah.
Yeah, you got lucky, man.
I'm very lucky.
What do you think?
I mean, the process of getting out of prison
and going into the halfway house, then being on probation,
then them taking a percentage of your money
and they don't make it easy to bounce back.
They make it almost impossible.
They don't make it easy for you, man.
They don't make it easy for you.
And if you are, that's why a lot of guys go back, man,
because a lot of guys, they get out
and they're just not mentally able to deal
with getting a job and you know what I mean?
Like they just, or they just don't even want to.
They just like, they just want to go back to selling drugs
or being fucking scumbags or whatever, you know what I mean?
Like they don't really, honestly,
I don't feel like they give you the tools necessary
to be successful for people that genuinely
don't have anything or anybody
and are coming home to nothing, like no safety net.
Though I feel like those people
that are like in the higher category risk,
I think that everybody should be assessed.
They should do some kind of like post release assessment
on you, you know what I mean?
And there should be some kind of,
there should be programs set up in place
for the people that are gonna be
in the higher risk category when they're getting released.
People who don't have like a home to go to
or don't have any family.
There should be programs in place for those people,
but there just isn't, you know what I mean?
They're just like, good luck.
Not only that.
Don't violate your fucking parole,
you're going back to prison, pretty much that's it.
Right, but not only that, but the people,
how educated and how savvy are the people
that are running the prisons
and running the programs that are already in place?
Like your probation officer,
how much of a fuck does your probation officer really give?
No, mine was cool with me, like I didn't even...
Right, he was cool, or she was cool or whatever,
but how much do they actually care?
Right, are they doing this?
Because that's what they want to do?
Or are they doing this because...
Sure, there's a few of them that are.
I mean, a lot of...
I think there's a few bleeding hearts
that are really in it to try and help people,
but then I think, man, you know,
a lot of people just get into it
because they, I don't know why they would do,
I don't know who, what kind of person chooses
to be a fucking probation officer?
Or a prison guard.
Or a prison guard, like it takes a certain kind
of individual to go into that field.
And usually it's not the type of individual
that you really want to deal with on a daily basis.
I mean, most of the time,
those people are just a fucking nightmare to deal with.
They're just complete sticklers for the rules.
They don't give a fuck.
Here's the line, if you step on either side of it,
you're going back to prison.
There's no give or take.
You know what I mean?
And you know, after 20 years of dealing
with fucking scumbags coming out of prison,
Right, you probably get worn out on it.
You get worn down to it, no.
And you know what I mean?
But I don't have a sympathy anymore for people.
You become desensitized.
Yeah, and I think that's the problem
with the whole criminal justice system.
It's just, you know, everybody's just desensitized.
You know, and giving people decades in prison
isn't a big deal.
You know, it's super random,
but I just heard that who was the guy
that was the CEO of Enron who went to prison
and he just got out in 2018.
And now he's already like trying to raise money
for some new thing.
Well, dig this, man.
The Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort.
Yeah.
That motherfucker's over in Australia
with a giant fucking company
and he's in their political system.
Is he really?
I swear to God, man.
He lives in Australia?
He lives in Australia.
He owns a fucking company over there
and he's involved in their politics.
I bullshit you not.
Wow, I have no fucking...
That blew me straight out of the fucking water.
Dude, I'm like, are you fucking...
This fucking piece of shit
is over there in their political system?
Whoa, easy.
What if he wants to do it on his podcast?
You can call him a piece of shit.
Yeah, you know what, dude?
You know, my bad, but...
What if he wants to fly to Australia?
Yeah, I don't know, man.
I just kind of fucking blew me away.
I mean, he's probably a nice guy.
Don't get me wrong.
I watched the movie and it didn't really seem
like he was that nice of a guy.
Well, no, he fucked a lot of people over him,
but they let him go to Australia
and he could clearly operate
by a different set of rules over there, right?
Yeah, yeah.
That's bonkers.
Bonkers.
Yeah, I don't know.
You think that people that did those kind of crimes,
those who, I mean, his crime is arguably
a hundred times worse than Matt Cox's crimes.
Mine and Matt Cox's crime put together.
Right.
Yeah, he was cleaning people out
and he laughing about it.
So, I mean, you know,
fuck.
It's insane.
Yeah, yeah.
Way she goes.
Way she goes.
That's the fucking way she goes.
That's the way she goes.
What is that from?
Trailer Park Boys.
You watch Trailer Park Boys?
Fuck yeah, man.
Every fucking episode, every season, every movie,
everything they've put out, I'm honored, man.
I've been trying to tell Danny forever.
He's never watched that episode.
I was just trying to tell her about it earlier, wasn't I?
Trailer Park Boys.
I was like, you've never seen the Trailer Park?
I did some quote from the Trailer Park Boys.
Yeah, and she's like, no.
That's what a nice fucking kitty right there.
That's all I know.
Oh, Bubbles?
Oh, man, what a classic.
Sorry, what are you gonna do
for the rest of the time you're down here?
Are you gonna go see Matt do it?
Yeah, I'm gonna hang out with Matt and do some painting.
He's gonna give me some tips
on the finer points of canvas painting.
And I'm actually gonna start doing canvas paintings
on my own and then selling them,
well, trying to hawk them to my subscribers.
Which, honestly, I put out a video,
even like I was like suggesting
that I was gonna start doing this
and people were like, yeah, fucking I'll buy them.
And I'm like, all right.
This is gonna eat it all up.
Let's fucking do it.
And it is, you know what I mean?
It's fucking.
You gotta start making merch shirts and shit.
I'm already on it, man.
I've already got, I sat down, I'm a graphic designer.
So I did like 15 or 20 designs already
and I'm gonna try and fucking pick
like the two or three best of those
and get everything, get everything printed up, yeah.
I'm gonna do a whole merch.
So I'm doing everything, man.
I've only had my YouTube channel for three months,
dude, I'm almost 1,000 subscribers.
That's amazing, man.
It's growing fast, man.
It's growing fast.
What kind of stuff do you talk about on your videos?
You know, just life shit, man.
You know, like whatever I'm going through
or like maybe I'll be just be thinking
about something that day and I'll just,
I'll sit down in front of the camera
and I'll go on like a 35 minute rant.
You know what I mean?
Like people love it, dude.
I'm getting views.
I'm getting, you know what I mean?
I saw one video you did.
I watched it, I think it was early today
that you started out the video and you said,
what the fuck did you say?
You were really angry, though.
I think I'm gonna rough.
Oh no, was I like, I don't fucking owe anything.
Yes, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I don't owe anybody anything.
What was that video all about?
Paving my fucking money.
You know, some little fucking punk on fucking Instagram
hitting me up and demanding that I fucking
tell him how to do fraud
and all this other fucking crazy shit.
Demanding.
I was like, no, listen, I was like, listen, dude,
I just don't have the time.
I was like, listen, he didn't want to pay me
what I was asking for.
You know what I mean?
I was like, listen, dude, I just don't have the time
to sit down and explain things to people.
I was like, listen, I work full time.
I tattoo full time.
I'm doing YouTube and he came back.
He was like, man, fuck them tattoos.
Pull your panties up.
He's, I was like, all right, motherfucker.
Wow.
And then we're doing all figured you.
We're doing all this.
And then he sends me like a voice recording of himself.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like talking shit to me on Instagram.
No, well, we were doing like on a wicker
and it's like a separate app or whatever.
I played it all on the fucking, when I went off,
I played, apparently you didn't watch the whole episode,
but I played, oh yeah, I played it fucking.
I read word for word, like our whole exchange
and I played his fucking, I put everything out there.
Like fuck this little motherfucker.
Can you play it right now?
Do you have it?
It's on my tablet.
Oh fuck.
I didn't bring my fucking tablet.
I'm having it on my phone.
But yeah, no, it's fucking.
Check out the episode.
No, that's weird.
I've had people like that, like contact me.
Just like, just to like talk shit.
Oh, motherfucker, who do you think you are?
Motherfucker, you're gonna demand some shit from me?
Punk bitch, you don't know what I do with my day.
You don't know how fucking structured my life is
and everything that I had to do to get to where I am.
And you're just gonna call me up
and just demand that I tell you some shit?
Yeah, you can't let it get to you.
Go fuck yourself.
That's why I have this outlet.
You know what I mean?
I feel better, like I'll get down
and I'll just go straight the fuck off.
And then I'll just be like,
as soon as I shut that camera off, dude,
it's just, it feels like weights have been lifted off
my chest and it's just like, it doesn't bother me anymore.
Really?
Yeah.
It's kind of like therapy for you.
And then yeah, and then people like,
my dude, I have a fucking fan base now, believe it or not.
Like it's weird to even say that,
that I have like a fucking fan base now
that people that watch everything I do
and they comment on every single thing.
So like when I put one of these videos out
and I'm like feeling like shit
or I'm feeling a certain way,
I'm feeling a certain way,
these people are like,
oh, don't worry about it, fucking bunch of assholes.
There's so much positivity.
Like nobody comes on my videos hating
or talking shit or anything like that.
It's always, I get no thumbs down, all thumbs up.
I'll do like 75, 100 comments per video,
3, 400 views, you know what I mean?
Like, and it's all positivity, man.
It's all positivity.
Yeah, people just wanting to fucking see me
do more and more and more.
Yeah.
And I just like, I had no idea.
Like people were gonna be this interested.
In me, in my life, and like,
cause I mean, I don't really think
that I'm that interesting of a person.
Apparently I am.
Yeah, you definitely are.
Apparently people just like to hear me talk,
you know what I mean?
And whatever it is, my personality,
maybe I have a little bit of charisma
or it's the way I break things down
and explain things, you know what I mean?
I don't know what it is.
Yeah.
There's something there.
Well, people, I think people are attracted
to that kind of story with like,
people like you that come from the gutter,
from the ugly corner and you come up
and you're able to go through everything you went through.
And then there's something also about like, scams.
People who have committed scams or frauds.
It's the zeitgeist of our time.
Right now, it's all things current.
Like whatever this little atmosphere we're living in
with the fraud and the scam,
it's been how do I want to say,
it's like Hollywood now.
Like before it was like just like an underground thing
that only like a select few people.
Like if you were a nerd or you were into fraud,
you knew about it.
Now it's like motherfuckers who aren't even doing fraud
or scams are saying their scammers and fraudsters.
Just, you know what I mean?
To be part of something.
Like it's so fucking crazy.
Like these kids that reach out to me on Instagram,
you should see their Instagrams.
Like they're taking pictures of all this money
and all this shit.
And then I'll have a conversation with them
and immediately I know they don't know shit.
They know absolutely dick.
You know what I mean?
They're just fucking trying to be cool.
Like it's cool to say you're a scammer now.
You know what I mean?
All the rappers are talking about it
and then you got this guy fucking band man Kevo.
Whoever the fuck he is.
I haven't watched any of his videos.
Everybody's telling me watch band man Kevo man reach out.
I'm like listen man.
Band man Kevo.
Apparently, okay this is what I know about him.
I haven't researched.
I've never read anything about him.
I've never watched.
I've watched clips and heard him talk a little bit
but it's like apparently he was some rapper
and he got caught up doing check scams
for like less than a million dollars.
It wasn't even that much money and he went to prison
and now he got out and apparently he charges motherfuckers
$150 for fucking FaceTimes and he's got his own YouTube
channel where he tries to teach people about like fraud
and fucking like CPNs and all the shit
that's gonna send people to prison immediately.
Like he's like the go-to guy for scams and frauds now
and like the hip hop community.
You know what I mean?
Like he's whatever man.
You know what I mean?
Like fucking whatever dude.
But I'm just saying like that's just how absurd
all of this has become.
You know what I mean?
And I don't wanna be that guy.
I don't wanna be that guy on my YouTube channel
trying to teach people how to do fraud
and doing the whole credit card thing
and all that shit.
I just don't wanna be that guy.
I wanna be the guy making people,
helping people make better decisions.
You know what I mean?
I wanna keep people out of prison.
How are you gonna do that?
Well, I mean, I just feel like I have
such a vast amount of life experience to draw from
that I mean I can give good advice.
You know what I mean?
And I'm a straight shooter.
I don't candy coat anything.
You know what I mean?
To tell somebody they're full of shit
or what you're doing with your life is fucking meaningless
and you need to do something else
if you wanna make changes.
You know what I mean?
Like I just keep it real with people.
Like I make videos about being successful
and what I feel it takes to be successful.
You know what I mean?
It starts when you wake up in the morning.
You wake up, you fucking eat the same breakfast,
you make your bed, you have a plan for the day.
You know what I mean?
And I just break it all down.
Like this is what you need to do to be successful.
You know what I mean?
You need to cut all the bullshit people out of your life.
You need to quit fucking,
you know what I mean?
You need to cut all the things out of your life
or fucking causing you any kind of discomfort or harm.
You know what I mean?
I just shit like that, you know?
Like my guide to success.
So I make videos like that.
Like motivational type stuff.
Exactly.
That's what I'm on, dude.
Just straight motivational.
Like, you know what I mean?
All positivity, you know?
That's awesome, man.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do you own Bitcoin?
I do not.
I am not in the crypto game.
You used to be though, right?
I was, yeah.
In 2010 or 2000, I got fried for this, okay?
Listen, all you little fucking Bitcoin nerds out there,
I'm sorry.
I fucking, listen, I was like,
I think when I was telling the story
and like I was on 500 milligrams of edibles
and I'm all excited.
And I was like, I was like, I had Bitcoin in 09
and then somebody in the comments like,
well, Bitcoin didn't come out till 2010
and didn't get a name till 2011.
So he's probably full of shit about everything else too.
And it's like, dude, fuck you little fucking nerds, man.
You know what I mean?
Like, dude, I-
That's one or two years.
You got fried in the comments?
Oh, dude, in the comment section,
I got fucking roasted.
And they just didn't let the Bitcoin thing go.
Like there's so many-
Our comments are not full of positivity.
No, dude, listen, I haven't even read the comments
under my podcast on your guys' channel.
Every video of ours is like, yeah, I don't read them.
I just won't, I don't read them.
I read them sometimes.
I read them like the first 24 hours.
And like Matt reads all of them.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And she reads them and she's like,
no, they're mostly good.
I'm like, yeah, but you know, there's some fucking,
there's some assholes in there.
Yeah, yeah, for sure there is, yeah, yeah.
So, you know, but you know,
I was invested in Bitcoin early, man.
Real super early, you know?
And then like I said,
when the Secret Service compensated my,
all my laptops and my hard drives,
you know, all my keys to my fucking,
my wallets and everything were on there.
Fuck, imagine if you still had them now.
I had, I think I had somewhere around $2,100 invested
in Bitcoin in like 2010 or 2011.
What was the price of Bitcoin back then?
It was pennies, or a couple dollars or something like that.
God, imagine you'd have-
What is that, millions?
Millions.
Oh, I would have half a billion dollars
or something like that right now.
250, 300 million dollars.
Yeah, yeah, somewhere like around that right now.
And listen, I'm sick about that all the time.
To the moon, Alice!
You can't even think about it.
I know, I know.
It's too crazy.
I know, but it's just like, it's one of those things
like, oh, whatever it is, what it is, dude.
Like it doesn't, it won't,
spending any kind of mental energy on that.
No, you can't.
Yeah, yeah.
So you don't fuck with Bitcoin at all anymore?
I'm not into cryptos, man.
I just feel like it's too volatile, you know what I mean?
And I feel like, you know, crypto is,
and until I can take crypto to Publix and buy groceries,
or I can take crypto to the Wawa
and fill up my goddamn gas tank,
or I can pay my rent with it,
to me, it's not real.
And it's just, it's garbage.
Because at the end of the day,
you have to change out your Bitcoin for US dollars.
So the intrinsic value of Bitcoin is tied to the,
pretty much tied to the value of the US dollar,
which we know fluctuates,
and which we know has,
the Fed says 2% inflation per year,
which I think is somewhere like around 5% or 6%,
you know, given the fluctuation of prices for commodities
and what have you.
Right.
You know what I mean?
So say I have a million dollars in Bitcoin,
I have to get them,
I have to cash it out for a million dollars in US cash,
which we, everybody knows that
if you know anything about finance,
cash is a bad investment.
Nobody sits on cash.
Because it loses its value over time.
You know what I mean?
It loses its purchasing power.
You know, you get into fucking,
you get into like tangible,
and it's, you know, silver, gold, real estate.
What are they called?
Oh, what do they call them?
NFTs.
NFTs.
Non-fungible tokens.
Yes, non-fungible tokens.
That's the new hype.
And I've been fucking looking into that too, man.
Have you?
Yeah, like the Jordan Fleer card
went up like 6,000% or something like that.
Like two years ago, it was worth like 300 bucks.
And now it's, it just sold for over $600,000
because the whole NFT fucking phenomenon.
Yeah, so I've been,
I haven't read quite a bit about that lately.
That's just fucking weird, bro.
What about the whole short squeeze on the fucking
when they hit AMC and GameStop and today?
That was hilarious.
Talk about con, man.
Oh, I was loving it, man.
What a con job that was.
Yeah, oh yeah.
I think there was some shit with that, man.
Like the fucking hedge funds were like,
you know what, they called up fucking Robinhood.
They're like, you need to shut this down.
Oh, they definitely did.
And they did right away.
That was some Enron type shit right there.
1,000%, you know?
And I feel like fucking,
I feel like Robinhood should be fine for that.
Oh, he might be.
Because I mean, they were obviously intervening
in the free market.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
So, yeah.
And that was hilarious, dude.
Them dudes lost so much money.
All the fat cats were losing
because they had to make,
they had to fucking cover all their loss.
It was hilarious, dude.
You spent like 200 bucks on it, right?
You bought, how many did you make out?
We got some.
No, it's down right now.
It is, yeah.
What did you, what did you pay?
Climbing right now.
Oh, I think we paid around 100 bucks.
So you paid 100 bucks?
I think it's around the same.
Did you get in kind of early?
I thought you bought it for more than 100.
We got some for probably like 111.
I think it's right around the same right now.
We might have bought some even after that.
We bought a bunch of different times
as it was going crazy.
We just kept buying it.
What's it at right now?
Like 90 bucks on it?
It's at like 100 bucks.
Is it, yeah, I haven't been watching it.
I was just following.
Yeah, I was like, that's hilarious.
But it was at like 50 last week, 40 last week.
I love it, yeah.
Yeah, but like I invest in,
I'm like long-term investor, you know?
So I do like blue chip, you know, stocks.
I do like Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, you know what I mean?
Companies that I think are gonna be around
for a long time and that are less volatile.
That's what I invest in.
And then, you know, gold and silver
and you know, I invest in those things as well.
Like individual stocks,
like the individual blue chip stocks like that?
Yes.
No S&P, like index bonds or?
No, I don't do the index funds.
No, why not?
I just feel like I would have to move my money
around a little bit too much.
And I kind of just, I like, I like hands-off investing.
Cause I got so much other shit going on in my life.
And it's like, I don't want to pay somebody to,
you know, I don't want to pay somebody
to move my money around for me.
Well, that's the, that's the-
I want to fucking-
The index funds are like the hands,
that's like the hands-off approach.
Cause you're putting it across, you know,
across all those companies.
You're gonna spread it, right?
But then, but just like the height of what's going on.
And like right now with like the economy
and like the country and the corona
and all the other shit, it's just like,
so the little bit of money I did have,
I pulled out and I'm just like investing
in sure things right now.
Like technology.
And yourself.
Like right now, like we,
the spot that you're at in your life,
it's probably the best to just invest
in what you're working on, right?
Exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I think technology is gonna be the future.
And I don't think you're gonna lose
with technology.
No.
At all.
It doesn't matter how, you know,
the state of the union doesn't matter
how bad things get.
You know, technology is gonna be our savior, I believe.
I think it's gonna be our savior.
I think it's gonna be our demise.
It could go either way.
I've seen Terminator one and two.
Yeah.
You know, so yeah, I could go either way.
I really, I genuinely believe that artificial intelligence,
you know, machine learning, machine learning algorithms
and automation and all that's gonna be the future.
And it's gonna change our lives.
I think it's Tesla.
Yeah.
I think in the next probably two decades,
you're gonna see more change
than we have in the past 10,000 years.
Yeah, for sure.
It's exponential.
Exponential, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's gonna change.
You know, just like that,
I don't know if you're how aware
you are like the IOT network.
What's that?
Like the internet of things
and like that whole rollout over the next fucking two decades
with the fucking 5G and all that.
So internet of things is like,
because of just how cheap it is
to manufacture sensors and all that shit.
So like everything's gonna be equipped with a sensor
that is then linked to the internet.
So say there'll be a sensor in this fucking,
in this water can.
Yeah.
I'll be able to open an app on my phone
and I'll be able to check the pH balance.
I'll be able to check the temperature of the water.
I'll be able to check when it was manufactured,
with it's already been opened.
Like it's, so there's gonna be so many data points
on everything that you're just gonna be able,
it's gonna be all that information
is gonna be readily available to you.
And not only that,
all of that information is gonna be captured
in mass and used to,
and then further the learning algorithms for AI.
So it dude, it's like this whole,
it sounds sci-fi.
It sounds like some fucking,
you know what I mean?
Some Blade Runner shit,
but dude it's all coming.
And you know what I mean?
All of these technology already exists.
You know what I mean?
It just hasn't been widely incorporated
into our infrastructure and into our everyday lives.
Like I feel like it's going to within the next,
probably 10 to 20 years.
Are you gonna get one of those Tesla sensors in your head?
The-
The Elon chip.
Sign me up.
What's the Elon chip called?
Oh it's the-
Version 2.0.
You know what I mean?
Let the first one come out
and fry a couple of fucking brains.
Let somebody learn how to hack them
and just pop people's fucking brains real quick.
You know what I mean?
And then I'll get the version 2.0.
But fuck yeah.
They're gonna use the first like roll out of them
for people that actually need a medically.
Yeah.
They're gonna help blind people see.
They're gonna help fucking paralyze people walk.
They're gonna speech impediments, all kinds of,
oh it's gonna change our, it's gonna change society.
You said he wants to start taking Bitcoin
for his Tesla cars.
To Tesla just, it bought like 1.5 billion
or something like that in Bitcoin.
They said they want,
they want to make it where you could buy their cars
in Bitcoin.
Yep, in Bitcoin.
So I mean, he's just trying to further the whole,
cause he sees what's coming.
And he's privy to things that all of us are not.
I'm sure he sits on a few boards
and he's got a few phone numbers
that he knows about.
You know what I mean?
So he sees what's coming
before everybody else does, obviously.
So he sees what's coming.
And it's gonna be a, it's gonna be a technocracy
and our future is gonna be a technocracy.
I believe in, you know, maybe even in future,
future decades, I mean, we're even gonna eliminate
politics is gonna be artificial intelligence.
You're gonna go, our judges are gonna be AI eventually.
I mean, now you can see AI doctors.
That's kind of scary.
AI fucking therapists.
It's gonna be, it's gonna be, it's gonna be awesome.
What are you kidding me?
It's gonna be fucking awesome.
Yeah, it's gonna be awesome.
It's also gonna be pretty terrifying.
It is, and the government's gonna know
everything you're doing.
You know what I mean?
They're gonna know where you're at
and they're gonna, more so than they already do now.
But I don't care.
Listen, I'm gonna be able to go to the grocery store.
When they put those chips in people
and they eliminate all money,
there's always gonna be a sector of society
like all these fucking, these dumb rednecks
that storm the capital with the fucking idiot
with the viking horns on them.
I mean, I mean, what did you guys think you were gonna,
what are you guys gonna accomplish?
What do you think you were gonna accomplish?
So you know, you've got, you're gonna have
this whole sector of society
that thinks like these people do.
But guess what?
I'm gonna be able to go to the grocery store
and buy groceries.
You're not.
I'm gonna be able to put gas in my car.
You're not.
You know what I mean?
Joe Biden's gonna have a camera
in the corner of my bedroom and I'm gonna say thank you.
What?
You can't fight it.
What are you gonna do?
You're gonna be, you're gonna give up your life
for the cause.
You can't fight it.
These people have drones.
They have predator drones.
They have ICBMs, Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles.
You know what I mean?
They can smoke you out of your fucking bed
while you're sleeping
and you don't even know nothing about it.
You can't fight it.
So I mean, what are you gonna do?
Just fucking embrace it and try and,
you know what I mean?
Make your way through it, dude.
That's all you can do.
And I'm gonna do it with a smile.
Yeah, you just gotta do the best that you can, I guess.
Fuck it.
What are you gonna do?
Fuck it.
Shane's gonna fight it.
Fuck it.
Shane don't fuck with any of this shit.
Give me this shit.
Look, I'm gonna get long gone.
Did he talk you into getting the chip?
I'm gonna be long gone by then.
Yeah, you're not, bro.
I don't know if our generation,
yeah, I don't know.
That's fucking it.
That's decades.
60, 70 years.
That's after the first nuclear bombs detonated on US soil.
And by that time, all the people who are crazy
that don't wanna do that shit,
they're gonna be long gone eating too.
Yeah, that's coming.
It's gonna come slowly over time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think there's gonna be some kind of incident
in the future that's gonna dwarf 9-11.
And it's just gonna completely change our society.
The aliens?
Unfortunately.
I think, listen.
Listen, the other day, about a week ago,
I live in Phoenix on the morning news,
two pilots were flying in from New Mexico into Phoenix.
They were just taking a plane.
And you hear, they played the,
cause they were communicating with the FAA tower.
And he was like, listen, I really hate to say this,
but something just flew right over the top of us.
Oh yeah, I saw that, I heard that.
Yeah, and he was like, I really hate to say it,
but it was a silver cylindrical fucking disc.
He's like, something just,
and dude, that's 30,000 feet.
Drones don't fly at 30,000 feet.
They can't, they just don't operate.
They also said there was no sound.
Yeah.
Like they didn't mention what kind of propulsion it was.
Like if it was a jet, yeah, you would hear it.
Yeah, yeah.
UFOs don't use jets.
It's coming, man.
It's coming, dude.
Like listen, whoever's observing our society
from a distance, because that's a thing.
I'm almost positive.
Not that I have proof.
Listen, they're gonna be like, listen,
these little fucking hairless monkeys
are really fucking getting out of hand over here.
We gotta fucking intervene.
They split the atom, you know what I mean?
They're fucking making nuclear explosions.
We gotta get down there and intervene.
Like something's gonna happen, you know?
I just watched this crazy fucking documentary
where they were breaking it down and they were saying,
like they found a Neanderthal baby in a cave,
perfectly preserved, and they fucking,
they took, they sequenced the DNA using like,
I don't know if you're familiar with the CRISPR.
Yeah.
So they sequenced the DNA and they were like,
there's no way that humans evolved from Neanderthals.
There's no way.
There's no way, because in the short amount of time
that it took for us, from Neanderthal to us,
it's just a blink of an eye.
And it took, you know, about Lucy, right?
Yes.
The first fucking primate, so you know,
when they sequenced the, or they didn't,
they couldn't because she was a fossil,
but so they're saying like the leap from Lucy
to Neanderthal was like a million years.
And they say that our DNA is so vastly fucking different
from the Neanderthals that it would have taken
just the amount of time that it does,
something doesn't make sense.
So then they're hinting at fucking, you know, intervention.
Advanced, advanced evolution.
We can do it with our technology now.
Who's to say that a different civilization from,
that can get here from a different solar system
hasn't already accomplished fucking genetics,
some kind of genetic engineering.
It's just, if you have the technology to get here
from a different fucking solar system,
you've got the genetics figured out.
You've got that part of, you've got that figured out.
So it's not really, I know it's insane to think about that,
but it's not really that far-fetched
to imagine something like that happening
given what we know about.
Is that what you believe?
The human.
I have to see more evidence, you know what I mean?
They need to dig up 10 more fucking Neanderthal babies
in sequence to fucking DNA, you know what I mean?
For me, it's just, you know, I have to see more evidence.
I'm not gonna take that one study and be like,
oh, I'm sold.
Yeah.
That's like a holy grail type question though, right?
The missing link.
There's like three questions, like are we alone?
Where do we go after we die and how do we get here?
Where did we come from?
Why are we here?
Those are, you know, those are some of the things
that keep me up at night, believe it or not.
You know what I mean?
I probably spend way more time than I should
thinking about those types of things.
But it's fun.
You know what I mean?
It's fun.
I enjoy it.
I get lost for hours sometimes
just like fucking contemplating like all of those things,
you know, it's fun.
Yeah, the idea of some other beings coming down
and like altering monkey DNA or chimpanzee DNA
to accelerate the evolution and create us these hairless-
A science experiment.
Big headed, blimp headed beings.
Yeah.
I mean, that's-
And then-
Cause those Neanderthals, I mean,
they have huge giant bodies and tiny heads
and then we are like-
Their foreheads stuck out way bigger.
Their jaws were a lot bigger.
Their brains were, you know,
their whole physiology was just different than ours.
I mean, they're homo, you know,
they're of the species, but they're not, you know,
we're just so much different from them.
So much different.
So they're trying to figure out what happened.
What could happen that could change us
in just such a short amount of time?
Jesus.
Well, yeah, that's a whole nother conversation.
Cause you know, you know,
evolution is a product of adaptation.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
So you're in your environment.
The environment plays almost a certain role
in the direction of a species is going to go
as far as their physical attributes,
because you know, certain, you know, things in nature
activate certain fucking, you know,
things in our genome that over a certain amount of times
allows us to exuberate,
I don't know if that's the word I want to use,
but
um,
display different characteristics.
You know what I mean?
Like white people were white because we grew up,
or we evolved in, in, in kind of colder climates
where there wasn't so much sun.
So our skins didn't, you know,
our skin tone didn't develop more melanin
and it's a protective from the sun.
That's why, you know, black people are black
cause they come from Africa where it's constant sun.
So the melanin, it's just the environment
changes us physically.
You know what I mean?
So there's such a short amount of time
that they just don't understand
how we got from fucking that to where we are now.
Yeah. So quickly.
So I mean, yeah.
So it's like something had to have happened.
And there's nothing even remotely like us.
There's nothing that wears fucking sneakers
that can tattoo their bodies like,
like do designs on their own skin.
Being self-aware to the point that we are.
Wear clothes.
There's no other species that can even contemplate
the things that we can contemplate
that can think about, well, how, where'd I come from?
Because that, that's a big question.
And that question says a lot about the human psyche
and just where we are in our state of evolution.
You know, but evolution's done.
We killed that with the industrial revolution
and everything else because we control our environment now.
So that's what I was saying about technology, about AI.
The next step of human evolution is gonna be electronic.
If we're gonna be fucking cyborgs,
we already are cyborgs, you know what I mean?
This, these things are never within our arms
we reach away from you, everybody in this room.
You know what I mean?
I sleep with it under my fucking pillow.
It's never farther than an arms length away.
Except the problem with the technology,
the reason it's being innovated like it is,
is just to make money.
Profit, for profit.
It's the only reason.
That's the main.
The only reason we keep making new iPhones every year
or keep developing new apps, new whatever,
is so they could just sell more advertising.
I agree with you 100%.
But I think that's the beginning.
Because now it's the amount of technology
and the things that are readily available
to the small sect of people
that actually do wanna change humanity.
Is those tools are now readily available.
So now we're gonna start seeing giant leaps and bounds
and the medical industry with healthcare
and the vaccines that we're gonna,
all the rolling out and the new medications
and all the shit that's coming down the pipeline.
I believe it's gonna be a product of that.
And I was trying to explain to my girlfriend,
I think a couple of weeks ago and I was like, listen,
when you and I get older,
it's not gonna be people taking care of us.
It's gonna be robots.
It's gonna be robots taking care of the elderly
because they're already doing it in Japan
where they got the fucking robot
that can scoop fucking the old people out of their bed
and fucking take them to the bathroom
and fucking, they're already doing it in Japan and China.
You know what I mean?
So like, what?
I haven't even seen that.
Oh yeah, you check that out.
It's on, you heard of the Weevolver?
W-E-E-V-O-L-V-E-R.
They're like a science and tech channel
and dude, yeah, they got all kinds of crazy shit.
But yeah, so it's like, when we're elderly,
it's gonna be robots taking care of us,
which I prefer.
You know what I mean?
I don't want some little 21 year old
fucking girl with blue hair, fucking honor's telephone.
I'm over here shitting and pissing like I'm fucking choking
on my catheter and she's on fucking Instagram.
You know what I mean?
I don't need that.
I don't need that.
I need a cold, calculated fucking robot
that's gonna fucking do the proper things.
You know what I mean?
That to make sure that I'm staying alive, you know?
So like I said, man, the future is gonna be,
if we fucking, if we make it, you know what I mean?
Because we might not fucking make it that far.
We might explode the whole fucking thing.
Yeah, this fucking game might be over sooner than we think.
You know what I mean?
Why do you think it, why do you think?
What would be the downfall?
What would be our downfall?
Would it be AI first or would it mean?
No, I don't think we even get,
if we don't destroy ourselves by time AI comes along,
I think we'll be all right.
But I think it's gonna be,
I mean, you just look at this past year, holy fucking shit.
Riots from coast to coast, burning down every fucking city,
fucking storm in the capital,
fucking the elections, the fucking virus.
Dude, in one year, the whole world went to shit in one year.
Literally, well, within three months,
between February and fucking April of last year,
the whole entire world went to shit.
So you can kind of see how frail the society
that we live in is, all of these structures
and these systems put into place
that give us this false sense of, you know what I mean?
Like comfort, I mean, just look what happened down in Texas.
People were freezing to death in their homes
because they're fucking, because it snowed
and their infrastructure couldn't fucking take it.
And people were freezing to death in their homes.
You know what I mean?
Like it's the society, it's a thin veil of,
you know what I mean?
The society that we lived in,
and underneath that, it's just fucking pure chaos
and people don't realize that, you know?
So things can go to shit real fast.
Think about if an EMP goes off or something
or God forget a solar flare,
like the one that happened back in like 19,
the one that had, they had a solar flare
about 110 years ago, but there was only telegraph,
there was only the telegraph then.
Fried every telegraph wire from coast to coast.
So if that were to happen now, we'd be fucking done.
The whole infrastructure would come to a halt.
The trucks would stop moving,
goods would stop moving around the planet.
The internet would be off, it would be game over.
So the people that don't know how to take care of themselves
and like grow food on their own property
and like all that shit, everybody else is gonna die
because they're gonna be eating each other.
It's gonna be Mad Max, which took place in the year 2021,
believe it or not.
I know, how fucking crazy is that?
We're not even close to that, bro.
I know, I know.
2021's not over yet, bro.
Shit, man.
It's early.
There's no way we're gonna advance that far in one year.
No, god damn.
But you know, it's just, we live in a very, very frail society
and I think it would take maybe one nuclear bomb going off
in American city to fucking shut this whole thing down
or a solar flare.
Probably better chance that happens.
What about the next pandemic?
What about the fucking, you know,
COVID fucking two that comes a couple of years from now?
You know what I mean?
COVID came out of nowhere.
It didn't exist before.
And then all of a sudden, it just killed fucking,
you know what I mean?
Everybody in the whole entire world shut down
because of it.
Come on, so you don't know what's gonna happen, man.
You know, there could be a million and one things
that could take us out.
There's supposed to be an asteroid to fly by
in like a year 2023.
It's gonna fly by.
It's gonna come within like 150 miles of the earth.
And then it's supposed to swing back around in 2032.
And they say if it passes through this fucking little window
and so when it comes around in 2026, I believe,
if it falls within these two guidelines,
when it comes back around, it's gonna hit us.
And that's, it's a fucking,
what do they call it, an alley, an extinction level event?
It's called, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I forget the term.
I actually just learned about it recently.
I did a podcast with a guy
a Harvard astronomer who basically,
him and a lot of his colleagues,
they dedicate a lot of time to just looking out
for these types of asteroids, these kind of like
doomsday asteroids.
And most they don't even detect
until they've already fucking are almost here
or they've already passed us.
He said that they have like plenty of time
and then he said that they actually have like multiple ways.
The bigger ones, but the smaller ones,
like say the size of a school bus
that will make it through our atmosphere
and wipe out a fucking city,
those they don't really catch that
until they're fucking either here or they're fucking...
Did you hear about the recent thing that was found
that was noticed by the Harvard astronomer, Avi Loeb?
They found he noticed a like a cigar shaped object
that was spinning and went past us.
Yes.
And it was shiny, Amua Mua.
Oh, Amua Mua.
Yeah, the Hawaiians named it
because it was found at the Hawaiian Observatory, right?
The...
Right.
That they have in Hawaii.
Yeah, and they were saying that it may not be...
From our, it was interstellar,
it was a different solar system.
The very first interstellar visitor
we've had from a different solar system
and said that's been observed.
And then they were saying because of the elongated shape
of it that it may not be natural,
that it may be like a...
Right, that and the fact that the...
How reflective it was.
Of what?
It was reflecting so much light and it was spinning
that they said it was made of some sort of like metallic
material, some sort of like metal.
Yeah.
Too bad we don't have the technology to fucking...
But it's crazy, like all these Harvard astronomers,
all these crazy astronomers, these people
that dedicated their lives to studying the heavens,
they don't want to talk about it.
Like he obviously brought this thing to public light
and is getting all this attention,
but a lot of his colleagues, they don't like talking about it.
They're like, he even says himself,
one of his colleagues who's a lifelong astronomer said
he wished this would have never happened
or it never would have been found.
Yeah, it's pretty wild.
They don't want to think about something extra terrestrial
coming through.
Yeah, yeah.
Our universe.
Yeah.
And then we just, we got the Perseverance rover,
just hit Mars, just landed on Mars
and we got the first fucking helicopter,
the little tiny fucking drone helicopter
that we were gonna fly on a different fucking planet
for the very first time, which is fuck.
I don't know how much you paid attention to the whole,
the Mars thing that we're doing right now.
Oh, I paid close attention to it.
Okay, me too.
I've been like following everything
and watching all the documentaries
and I watched like live when they fucking,
they dropped it down, they shot it and it dropped
and it was fucking cool, man.
It was really cool.
It was super cool.
Really fucking cool.
That place is crazy, man.
Mars?
Yeah, Mars.
I don't know how we could, I mean.
It's a trip.
What is the, do you know exactly how they say
that humans could survive there?
They're gonna have to build some sort of like.
Habitats.
Well, no, they're gonna have to do something
called terraforming.
Terraforming, right.
Right, where they take the carbon monoxide
out of the atmosphere, turn it into oxygen
and then make an atmosphere.
Yeah, it's a whole process.
And in theory, they're gonna drop these giant machines
that are the size of fucking factories
at different locations around the planet
and then clean, kind of scrub the air
and then kind of create an atmosphere.
But what they're gonna do is I think they wanna melt
because there's polar ice caps on them.
There's water on Mars, liquid water.
They've already found that.
So they think a lot of it lies below the surface of Mars.
And then so that, yeah, they melt the water
that through some kind of process creates an atmosphere.
So yeah, we're gonna have to go up there
and live in habitats, you know what I mean?
Like total recall.
That was a fucking good,
have you seen the original total recall
with Arnold Schwarzenegger?
It's been a long time.
Oh man, that's such a fucking classic, dude.
Such a classic, man.
But yeah, you know, it's gonna be something like that,
I think in the beginning and then, you know.
Yeah, so I mean, it's just like, we have to get off Earth.
We have to become an interplanetary species
or else we're not gonna survive in the long run.
Because eventually the Earth's gonna get swallowed up
by the sun and the sun's gonna fucking, you know what I mean?
Go supernova and destroy the fucking,
all the planets and everything like that.
That's an adventure alley.
That's going to happen.
Given, you know, it's 100 million, whatever years,
but it's like, if you think about the longevity
of our species, like we have to get out of the solar system.
We have to get off this planet
and we have to go figure it out.
Which we already are.
I mean, they find new planets every other day
that, you know, could be habitable.
The crazy thing is that, yeah, like it might not be
that far off to get people to Mars,
but it would suck living on Mars.
Oh yeah, I mean, it's not even habitable, you know,
and then the temperature swings and the dust storms
and the radiation and the fucking carbon monoxide.
But it's like, I feel like we have,
we're going to have to do this to get,
you know what I mean?
It's like you got to crawl before you can walk,
kind of deal.
Right, right.
I mean, so let's go ahead and figure out
how to get to a different planet and sustain life
in a hostile environment, you know,
with the technology that we have.
And let's figure that all out, get a plan down,
get a fucking, you know what I mean?
Get a system down for that and then,
and then we'll make the jump
to different fucking solar systems
once we figure out the technology, you know,
the vehicle that will get us there.
Till we can be able to slingshot through a black hole,
that would be insane.
Yeah, the, was it the Rosen, the Eisen Rosen?
That was actually a theory by Albert Einstein
and there was a name for it.
It was called the something Rosen bridge
where it was like the black hole
where you can fucking fold space
and travel from one point to another.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that was actually a theory by Albert Einstein.
Yeah, well the center of our galaxy
is actually like a giant black hole.
I forget the name of it.
Yeah, yeah.
Something Centaur, I forget what it is called.
Alpha Centauri.
Yeah. Alpha Centauri.
Well no, Alpha Centauri I think is the next,
the closest solar system to us.
Okay, yeah, that's something, yeah, but I don't know.
If we can figure out a way to travel through black holes
to other solar systems.
Listen man, I'm still contemplating the simulation theory.
I think all of this is just a fucking joke,
you know what I mean?
Like this is a fucking, we're on a hard drive somewhere
in a fucking, you know what I mean?
In some kind of fucking.
Doesn't that conflict,
doesn't the simulation theory conflict
with the super advanced aliens coming down
and accelerating the evolution?
It does.
There is quite a conflict.
Yeah.
So it's like, pick one.
Which one do you want to go with?
Yeah, which one do you want to go with?
But it's like there's evidence for both.
And I know that sounds insane,
but there's evidence for both.
Like there's all these major scientists coming out
like listen, like fucking what's his name?
The black dude with the afro.
Neil deGrasse.
Neil deGrasse, I'm sorry.
Neil deGrasse, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to, you know,
I mean it's just like,
so Neil deGrasse Tyson came out and was like,
listen, there's a fucking a high probability that,
you know what I mean?
This may all be a simulation.
And even Elon Musk comes out like, you know,
if given the amount of technology that we have now
on any given time scale and the exponential growth,
it's like, why wouldn't we run simulations?
You know, why wouldn't we in the future
run simulations of our past to try and figure out?
You know what I mean?
So it's like, if we could do it,
I know it's a mind fuck.
You know what I mean?
It's like crazy thing about video games.
It's a thought experiment.
Yeah, for sure.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, for sure.
But you know you're right.
Like NPCs, non-player characters and video games.
Like that whole thing, like Vice City and the whole,
you know what I mean?
You just don't know.
Well, have you heard about,
I forget the term for it,
but you can basically play Grand Theft Auto
and you can be, and you can talk to people.
Like if you get in a certain vicinity
of another player on Grand Theft Auto,
you can actually talk to them through the mic.
I'm sure they were gonna do that.
And it's like, I'm saying it's all coming, man.
I'm sure you've seen Ready Player One.
Yes.
I think that's the future, man.
Like I genuinely believe something along,
maybe not to that extent,
but I think something along that line is coming
within the next probably decade or two.
Yeah, the video game thing's freaky.
It is freaky, man.
It's fucking, it's just getting out of hand now.
It's getting out of hand, yeah.
But the scary thing about it though
is like people that go on there and wanna be anonymous,
just like a boiled down version
of like the comment section on YouTube.
People who can just go on YouTube
and just talk shit without any kind of repercussions
or just like say the most fucking vulgar,
like fucked up thing they could possibly think of.
If you translate that into video games
and then that sort of has some real life consequence to it.
You have to sort of like make it
to where it has a real life consequence to it.
Dude, what was that movie with Bruce Willis?
Sixth Sense?
No, in Fifth Element.
No, no, no, no, no.
It was called, we're okay.
Everybody, nobody, okay.
In the future, this is the premise of the movie.
It's in the future.
And everybody has a synthetic double of themselves.
So nobody leaves the house.
They just send their synthetic double out into the world
and they control them through fucking,
through like virtual reality.
So yeah, it's-
What is that movie?
Yeah, I think I've seen that before.
It's fucking wild.
It's like in this apartment.
Exactly.
It stays in the area.
And he's all fucked up and old looking,
but his sim, his out in the world was like fresh shaving.
He's a cop.
He's a cop.
And but he sends his sim out into the world
and then like there's this whole thing where it's a game
where you can control other people,
where other people like you can physically control
another person because they got these chips,
these implants in them.
And dude, the whole thing is just fucking insane.
Absolutely insane.
I wish I could remember-
So like black mirror, you ever see black mirror?
Of course, yeah, yeah.
I like that type of shit.
It is, man.
Yeah, it was a great movie.
Yeah.
That's probably what the future's like.
It's gonna be something along those lines, man.
It's gonna be something along those lines
of virtual reality mixed with augmented reality.
You know what I mean?
Mixed with fucking the neural link in our brain.
It's gonna be some kind of fusion,
I think of those three things.
Mm.
That's too much.
I don't think I wanna be here for all that shit, man.
That's freaky, bro.
It's wild, man.
It's like this is such a mind fuck when you think about it.
You know what I mean?
So sci-fi.
Matt Cox told me you're into a lot of conspiracy theories.
I mean, not all of the conspiracy theories.
He said you're into all of them, every single one.
Every single one of them.
Not necessarily that I subscribe
and full-heartedly believe in all of them,
but it's like, it's fun, man.
Yeah.
It's fun at the end of the day to think that, you know,
the Clintons are fucking, you know, killing children
and fucking draining the adrenal chrome out of their brains
and there's lizard people that fucking run the government.
You know what I mean?
Like the Anunnaki, dude, the whole,
all of it's fucking fun.
You know what I mean?
It's hilarious.
What's your favorite conspiracy theory?
Oh, man.
Dude, it would have to be probably the lizard people.
The fucking the reptilians.
That's like the most insane one.
Dude, that's like some David Ike shit.
So fucking, oh, I love David Ike.
Do you really?
I love David Ike.
I mean, I don't necessarily believe what he says is gospel.
He's like, you know, he's a fucking,
as he says some shit, I'm just like, all right.
Or what about to do the ancient alien dudes
with the fucking hair?
It's like, come on, you can't take that guy seriously.
You know what I mean?
Fucking get a haircut, bro.
And then I might fucking listen to you.
Let's just fucking overproduce entertainment.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, but I love the reptilian, the reptilian.
The whole fucking, that whole thing is fucking pretty cool.
I fell down that rabbit hole on YouTube.
What is the gist of the reptilian?
That's the one I have not paid attention to.
So there's this race of reptilian people
that quietly pull all of the strings in our society.
What is a reptilian person?
Basically what you would think it'd be,
like a big ass fucking lizard person.
Big ass fucking crocodile walking around.
Yeah, and they got like, they got eyes.
So they show like all these videos,
like people on like CNN and like on Congress.
Like they'll have like a Bloomberg or something playing
or like they're all voting for Congress.
And they'll zoom up on somebody
and all of a sudden their eyes will fucking blink sideways.
And they'll have like reptilian pupils and shit.
Yeah, it's just fucking.
This is the kind of shit you get banned off YouTube
or talking about.
I know, dude.
No, it's all over YouTube.
Oh yeah, no, I fell down a rabbit hole on it.
I've watched that shit.
They've done a pretty good job
of not suggesting these videos anymore to people.
But if you look for them, you can find them.
Definitely.
Well, that's a whole other conspiracy.
Why the YouTube doesn't want you to see these kinds of videos.
Oh dude, listen dude, I got fried on YouTube.
They took one of my videos down
and gave me a community guidelines fucking warning.
For what video?
Dude, I caught an upper respiratory infection
from wearing fucking masks.
And I went to a doctor and he's like, yeah,
he's like, dude, he's like, unfortunately,
this is, I see this a lot coming in here.
You know what I mean?
People come in with upper respiratory infections
because you know, the masks are trapping
all the fucking moisture in the germs
and everything.
Because were you wearing one of the surgical masks?
No, I wear the cloth.
I wear cloth, man.
I don't wear the surgical mask.
That's why, right?
Yeah, so I caught upper respiratory infection.
So I made a video about it.
I'm like, dude, I'm not wearing a more fucking mask.
I'm like, fuck these masks.
I'm sick.
I got an upper respiratory infection from this shit.
I'm over it.
And that's all I said.
I wasn't telling people not to wear masks.
I wasn't advocating for not, you know what I mean?
None of that shit.
They took it down and gave me a fucking warning, dude.
I was like, no.
What?
I was like, no.
They gave you a strike?
No, no, no.
They gave me a warning.
Yeah, then they said the next one's gonna be a strike.
So I'm like, okay, now I know.
I gotta leave it all alone.
I can't, you can't do anything political,
you know, unless you're their politics,
you know what I mean?
The liberal left wing, you know, agenda or whatever.
Like if so, if you're any kind of conservative view channel
or you get fucking-
That's not true.
You get shut down immediately.
That's not true.
There's shitloads of successful conservative channels.
Yeah, but you know,
you gotta be careful about what you say.
Dude, they're trying to cancel everybody.
They're canceling.
They're trying to cancel Shapiro.
They canceled fucking-
No.
How are they trying to cancel Shapiro?
I'm telling you, man.
Like they do shit with the algorithms.
You know what I mean?
Cause they can't outright kick you off.
So they play with the fucking algorithms.
I don't listen.
I don't wanna get put on some fucking list.
I'm trying to get my channel monetized.
Okay, let's fucking.
I'm gonna get put on some list here.
I listen, I love YouTube.
It's fucking the greatest thing in the world.
I, you know what I mean?
And at the end of the day, it's a private company.
So they can say and do whatever they want.
So I know a lot of people are like,
oh, free speech and this, that, and you know what I'm like.
It's a private company that you can use.
You can choose to use their platform or not.
At the end of the day.
And that's the way I look at it.
You can't really, you kind of have no choice.
They've become a monopoly.
You really don't have a choice.
I know.
You have a choice.
You have a choice, right?
Do nothing.
Yeah, you fuck off.
Or use YouTube.
Follow our rules or fuck off.
It's a choice, yeah.
You know what I mean?
And then the whole thing with,
what was the other at Parler?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then they went down.
Like Google was like, no, you can't use our servers.
Well, there, I mean, there's a lot of big successful
political commentators that made a career
during the Trump era that are left and right.
There's a lot of big successful
right wing YouTube channels that are doing great.
You know about Crystal Ball and...
Oh yeah, I love them.
Oh, I love them.
I watched her every day.
You know what I mean?
It is a little, I see what they're doing.
You know what I mean?
I see what you're doing, but I get it.
And it's like, so they're successful.
Like I said, Shapiro's successful.
And there's a couple other guys.
What about Candace Owens?
Do you like her?
Oh, I love Candace Owens.
She's a fucking straight shooter, man.
She doesn't give a fuck.
She will tell you exactly how it is.
Yeah.
I think she's a little bit fantastical
at times.
Of course.
Yeah, you gotta play it up a little bit, man.
Did you see what Dave Chappelle said about her?
No.
Would he tweet something?
No, he did a whole stand-up skit he talked about.
Oh, did he?
I fucking didn't catch that one.
Yeah, it's hilarious.
You gotta watch it.
Yeah, I'll check it out.
Yeah, no, I love Candace Owens, man.
What's his name?
The other dude, the younger black gentleman from...
He's all over YouTube.
He's got the big truck that the Trump can...
Trump truck?
Yeah, he's like pro Trump, super pro Trump,
super right wing fucking conservative.
I don't remember his name.
I was following him on Instagram and then I...
Did he live in Florida?
Probably.
Sounds like it.
He's from the South.
He's from the South.
I'm not sure if it's Florida.
Everybody down here drives trucks.
I know.
They say Trump on the back.
Everybody.
I love it.
You get the billboards and shit out here.
Oh, I love it.
I live out West where it's fucking,
you know, everybody hates Trump.
And then I come out here and it's so refreshing.
Have you ever heard of Forgeotto Blow?
Of course.
We talked about him, didn't we?
Of course, I love Forgeotto, man.
I've been fucking listening.
He is a maniac.
He had the fucking speedboat out there
with fucking Trump fucking with his...
Oh, the flag of the...
He was a fucking maniac.
I'm so, I'm so surprised he didn't get canceled.
Cause I think they tried to a little bit,
but it's like, dude, he's got so much pole.
He's wacky, bro.
He's wack.
I love that guy.
I did a little video with him before.
I know I seen your guys,
this whole thing you guys did with him.
Yeah, yeah, that's cool, man.
I've been fucking with him and his music
for such a long time, man.
I remember when he was just coming up in Tampa
and he was just a young guy, man.
He was fucking, you know, a little bit heavier
and he was fucking, yeah,
I remember all his old school shit and I fucked up.
I haven't seen anything about him lately though.
Have you seen anything?
No, I haven't either.
From just from the Trump shit,
the Trump, the boat parade,
he was out, like he said,
he was out there on his big ass boat.
Yeah, but since then.
I think his music's kind of fell off a little bit.
Wasn't he out at the Capitol?
Didn't we see a video of him out there?
Probably.
Was he storming the Capitol?
He probably was.
I think he was shooting a music video out there
while it was all going on.
Oh my God.
That's fucking that.
It's classic, man.
It's all around like fools going wild or something.
Yeah, you gotta love that guy, man.
You really gotta just give it to him
because everything that I,
everybody wants in life,
I'm not gonna say I,
but everything that people want in life,
he has.
You know what I mean?
He's got the fucking, well,
he portrays that.
I don't know if he actually owns them homes and them cars
and you know what I mean?
Cause I don't know his,
like I said, I don't know him
and I don't wanna talk shit on him,
but apparently the story that was on the street,
his people had money.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
They owned Auto Trader.
He started Auto Trader.
His grandfather started Auto Trader.
There you go.
It explains it.
So I didn't know about that.
You know what I mean?
So it's kind of like, okay.
So, but still it's like,
so I don't know how much street cred,
like how much validity it is to like his persona.
You know what I mean?
Because he kind of came from,
but just like people that come from cushy backgrounds
can kind of be hardcore.
I don't know.
I don't wanna talk shit on the dude
because I fuck with him and I fuck with his music.
You know what I mean?
But he's doing what he wants to do.
He's doing what he wants to do.
He's living the life he wants to live
and he's not afraid to speak his mind.
And I admire people like that.
Well, it's probably one of the few hip hop artists
he's the only one.
Super hard Trump supporters.
Him and, well, I don't know if Tom McDonald,
you know who Tom, the Canadian rapper,
he's got to, he's just put out a couple of songs
that are making major waves right now.
One's called Fake Woke.
Or he talks shit on Eminem.
He's got one line in it.
I think it said something about Eminem was,
used to be gay bashing and murdering his moms.
Now he doesn't want a fan if they voted for Trump.
Like this whole thing about
just this whole fake woke fucking,
you know what I mean?
Like he's like, yeah.
Tom McDonald and he's got a couple other fucking,
Chris Webby, I'm not, you know,
if you're familiar with him,
he's like super political
about like the whole fucking fake woke culture.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I mean, there's a few rappers, but...
You see Mr. Potato Head is now non-binary.
Mr. Potato Head is now just Potato Head.
How far is this gonna go?
By the way, you still don't have health insurance.
How far is this gonna go, man?
Tim Dillon tweeted that.
That was so fucking funny.
I love Tim Dillon, man.
I am obsessed with Tim Dillon, dude.
I watch his fucking podcast faithfully.
Everything that dude does, I love it, man.
Shane hates him.
Really?
We've never even seen him.
I've never seen him.
I did not say that.
Oh, man, dude, Tim Dillon,
he's just such a fucking funny motherfucker, dude.
And he's all about like the conspiracies.
Yeah, he is.
He was on...
He's like the gay Alex Jones, but funnier.
Yeah, he did a podcast with Rogan and Alex Jones.
And he left LA and moved out to fucking Austin.
Texas, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He had dinner with Alex Jones
and fucking Joe Rogan all the time.
I fucking loved him, Dillon.
I was on a club, you know her clubhouse?
Are you on clubhouse?
Yeah, he was on there last night.
He started a room on clubhouse called
Woke Ho's Trying to Fuck.
I was in one room he had.
Should women own Bitcoin?
Should women be allowed to own Bitcoin?
Yeah, he's such a classic, dude.
I was on Bitcoin last night.
Today, actually, I ran a fucking room on fucking...
Clubhouse?
I'm sorry, yeah, in a Bitcoin clubhouse.
I was on clubhouse.
I go on every day.
And Tyler, obviously, Tyler's like my guy now.
Is he?
Yeah, he's my booking agent now.
So Tyler's...
He's amazing.
I fucking love Tyler, man.
Tyler is such a great guy.
Listen, he will text me all day long.
Contact this person.
Reach out to this person.
This person wants you on their podcast.
Reach out to this person.
This person...
I've already got like three podcasts just from Tyler.
Oh yeah, big ones.
And you know, every single day and like,
and then I'll go on clubhouse and he'll be on there.
So I'll join a room and he'll bring me up to speak.
Every time.
He's like, can you bring my friend John up here?
And then I'll come up and then all of a sudden
I'll just take over the room.
Cause I'll start telling my story and fucking...
Whatever the room was about, it just shifts to me.
And everybody's just asking me questions
and I just take over the room.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
One of the moderators got pissed earlier today.
She said, can we reset the room, please?
Oh my God.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And like one of my people I'm working with,
one of my directors was on there and he was like,
dude, you just took over the room.
And then like some bitch came on.
Can we reset the room, please?
One of the moderators and I was like, quietly leave.
I'm out of here.
You know what I mean?
Fucking go to another room.
Oh, I love it.
I fucking love it, dude.
What do you think is so great?
What do you think the best part about it is?
Dude, it's just like, it's so authentic
because it's in the moment.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It's just off the cuff conversations and it's live.
And it's just like, you know,
there's just all these ideas swimming around.
And it's like, I get a lot of attention.
You know what I mean?
When I go on things, I start talking about my story
and shit, you know what I mean?
So it's like, for me, it's fun, you know what I mean?
Cause maybe if I was just like a quiet bystander
and I was just, even then it would be kind of fun.
But dude, you get to listen to all these fucking CEOs
and you get access to, you know, people,
you would have to wait for something to come out
on YouTube or TV and all of a sudden they're right here
in your pocket and you can pull them out.
And I can go on here and I can,
Tim Dillon's on here, fucking Rogan's on here.
Tom Green is fucking hosting rooms every other night.
I'm fucking hanging out with Tom Green.
And dude, he brought everybody up that joined his room.
He brought him up to talk, everybody.
So everybody could have a chance to fucking bullshit
with him and talk with him.
Dude, I love it.
I fucking love it.
I wanna host a room.
Me and Tyler are working together.
He's trying to get a couple of moderators
that can bring big crowds in.
And I'm gonna do a room twice a week if I can.
Is Trump on clubhouse yet?
They haven't kicked him off that long.
I'm showing a matter of time before he gets on.
Could you imagine?
Oh man.
Dude, I tried to get into Tim Dillon's room
the other night and it was full.
Really?
Yep, said room is full.
What's the maximum amount of people?
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's gotta be a lot though.
I kept trying to join it.
It was room was full and then I hit Tyler up
cause Tyler will ping me every time Tim Dillon
does a room or he thinks, anytime there's a room
that he feels like I should be in, he'll ping me.
And I'll jump on and sometimes the room will be full
but then there's like overflow rooms
which I haven't even figured that out yet, so.
Huh.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a whole thing.
Dude, I love fucking love clubhouse.
I bought an iPhone so that I could go on clubhouse.
What were you an Android guy?
Oh, I've never owned any Apple products.
Why?
I'm anti-Apple.
I've been anti-Apple my entire life.
Why?
Dude, I don't like the company.
I don't like the product.
I don't like the operating system.
I just don't like it at all.
I don't like anything about the fucking-
Jesus Christ, you're a rebel.
Why?
Um, I listen, I don't know man.
Just, just how they treat their workers
and like over there and just like their-
Slave labor is the norm.
I don't like the elitism that comes with Apple products.
What about Google?
All the douchey fucking rich assholes
that have the Apple watch and the new iPhone and the AirPods
and they make sure you see all of it
and they got the silly little fucking interchangeable bands
that all got a fucking match, you know what I mean?
And some girls, if you text them
and your chat bubble isn't fucking green
or whatever it is with iMessage,
do the whole thing's fucking retarded
and I didn't want no part of it.
What about Facebook?
What about Google?
What about Amazon?
Don't use Facebook.
She runs my Facebook.
I don't have anything to do with it.
You know what I mean?
I don't, I use Google obviously.
I use Amazon obviously, but it's like,
so when Clubhouse was exclusively only for Apple,
I had to fucking, I was like, okay.
And now that I have the, I got the fucking,
the 12 Pro Max.
Damn, ballin'.
Yeah, these consultations are paying me off.
Woo hoo.
But yeah, I got the big bad boy.
You know, I gotta get the best one.
If it's gonna be my first Apple product,
it's gonna be the best one.
And I can't go by, I probably can never go back now.
Yeah.
I can never go back now.
It's just such, it's just, it is cool.
And you know what, everything that I didn't like
about the iOS, they changed with iOS 14.
You know what I mean?
It's like a lot of the little fucking
just functionality things that I just fucking aggravated me
and I want to slam it on the fucking ground.
Like somebody would pass me an iPhone
and to look something up and I wouldn't even,
I wouldn't even know what to do with it.
But you could take it back, dude.
I don't even want to deal with this.
What do you think about that?
I mean, the iPhone hasn't changed in so long.
Do you remember when the iPhone first came out?
I do, yeah.
Did you ever have, do you have a friend who had one?
Yeah, yeah.
I had a friend who got the iPhone
as soon as it came out, the iPhone one.
And it was just like this, like for some reason
that moment I have it like seared into my memory
of like how insane that fucking thing was.
It was Bradford, got it.
Oh yeah.
And he had that fucking iPhone.
I remember like just like, like broke.
And I like play with it for five minutes.
Look at it, like look at your texts and all this.
So crazy.
Nothing has happened like that since then.
I know.
Nothing has come out that just changed the game so much.
Changed everything.
And that was a decade ago.
Yeah. Give or take.
Over a decade ago, probably.
When did the first iPhone come out?
You remember?
No idea.
Austin, you know?
Can somebody give that a goog?
Yeah, Austin, you should know.
Like not much by maybe, maybe 11 or 12 years.
2009, 2005 or seven?
2007.
Yeah.
I was fucking, that was the year
after we graduated high school.
So 14 years ago came out.
That's insane.
Were you graduate 06?
06.
I was 03.
Okay.
Yeah, so I mean, in 14 years.
What the fuck's up?
Why can't tech innovate?
I mean, what's up?
Why can't we come up with something like
paradigm shifting like the iPhone again?
Yeah, well, I think it's just, you know,
the technology, Matthew Cox.
Matt, where's Matt?
He didn't want to come on this podcast.
He didn't want to.
I can't believe he didn't show up.
No, he didn't want to.
Then he's going to fucking make it about me
or whatever.
He didn't want to steal your thunder.
No, he had paintings to do.
He just had paintings.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sure he did.
That's how he's paying his bills nowadays.
Yeah, paintings.
Bullshit.
Which hopefully, he just did a fucking
Amscot commercial.
Hopefully these paintings are going to be
a whole new revenue stream for me as well.
I've already got people that want like the first one.
He's like, I want the first one.
You already fucking, you know,
I got people trying to commission shit from me now.
So yeah.
But yeah.
Bro, I want you to give me a tattoo.
Yeah, we can do that.
The next time I come out, I'll bring all my stuff with me.
You'll be my first tattoo I ever got.
Hell yeah, man.
Boziac.
I put a video up on my channel, I tattooed myself.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, like I was supposed to have a client come in
and I was going to film the whole thing
and they do a time lapse and they bailed on me.
Really?
And I was like, well, fuck it.
So I just fucking tattooed myself
and like filmed the whole thing and like did a walk through.
What tattoo was it?
What'd you do, yeah.
Oh, you guys want to see it?
Yeah.
Oh, hell yeah.
Damn.
That's sick.
Yeah.
Yeah, film the whole fucking thing,
dude, on my YouTube channel.
How did you do it?
Like, do you have to like?
No, I just basically like this.
So you do it upside down.
Yeah, well, you got to start here and work your way.
Right.
Work your way down, yeah.
So you obviously like put some sort of like ink on there
for some sort of like temporary thing
that you can trace over.
A stencil?
You draw a stencil on it.
I use a stencil.
I have a machine that, you know,
I could like print something out
and then run it through a stencil machine.
And then it creates a stencil
and then you put the stencil on and then you fucking, yeah.
Who did the one on your head?
My buddy, Rory Rudy.
If you guys want to check him out on Instagram,
at Rory Rudy.
That thing's insane.
R-O-R-Y-R-U-D-Y.
Yeah, he did my entire head, my neck, everything, my hands.
I'm just at the top of your head.
What's the pain level on that?
Ooh.
On a scale of one to 10.
Honestly, the head wasn't that bad.
No.
It was the belly.
Really?
Belly hands down was the worst fucking agonizing pain
I've ever been through my life.
I know you would think that the head
would be just fucking brutal, but it's not.
Really?
No, the back of the neck was fucking pretty hardcore.
I was pretty uncomfortable for me.
And then like down in this ditch down here.
Yeah.
But yeah.
What is that right there?
Is that God right there?
I have, so I have Thor on one side
and I have Odin on the other.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So yeah, no, the head honestly really wasn't that bad.
There was this nerve, there's a nerve right here
that went down and behind my eye.
And every time he hit it, like my eyeball felt like
it was gonna.
Yeah, it was like.
Whoa.
And it was hardcore, man.
But yeah, besides that little spot,
it really wasn't my head, but it wasn't that bad.
Yeah, yeah.
Like onto the forehead, like out here
where these little leaves and shit come out.
Yeah.
And then like the Tyrannosaurus Rex kind of comes.
Cause I had to match it.
So like the forehead was like.
Why Illuminati?
Why'd you do the Illuminati?
I know everybody, like that's like the symbol
for like the Illuminati, but like,
I kind of just view it as my,
the physical representation of my belief system.
You know what I mean?
Like the third eye and the fucking, you know,
like the whole, I call it karma,
call it law of attraction.
You know what I mean?
I just, I believe personally, like I'm not,
I'm an atheist.
I don't believe in like the cool creation theory
or you know, God and heaven and hell and the deities
and all that shit.
I don't believe any of that.
You know, I think that's nonsense to me.
I believe that there's a, some kind of energy
that permeates throughout the entire universe
and throughout all living things that you can tap into
and kind of manifest things.
My whole entire life, I manifested all of this
into existence.
I made all of this happen just through,
just through like visualization.
You know what I mean?
And just thinking about it.
Like that's, I owe all of my success in my life to, to that.
You know, so that's just my belief system.
So that's why, that's what that tattoo means to me.
That was my physical, that's the representation to me.
You know, and I think science is gonna prove all of this
in the long run.
I think through physics and through like particle physics
and like, I think it's gonna prove it in the long run
that, that, you know, like dark matter or whatever
they're saying, like, you know what I mean?
Like it's all gonna eventually be proven.
That's just my opinion, no, you know,
and I'm just some fucking asshole from Miami,
some crazy fucking, some crazy cracker from Miami.
You know what I mean?
What do I know?
Yeah, yeah.
That's wild man.
Yeah, you gotta get back to Florida, bro.
Yeah, I think I'm going to, I'm just trying to figure out,
you know, the right, the right way to do it
because, you know, I want to still be able to have
a YouTube studio, you know what I mean?
Not at my fucking house.
You know what I mean?
Like, I like how I have it now.
It's just like set up and it's just like fucking,
you know, I like being able to go somewhere and record
and then go home, you know what I mean?
So if I'm able to come down here and do that,
then I think, you know, I think I'll be happy.
So I'm, you know, we'll see how these other major projects
I'm working on kind of unfold for me.
Yeah.
You know, so, because it may allow me to, you know,
financially do whatever the fuck I want to do.
Yeah.
You know, so yeah, I'll figure it out.
Cool, let's take a break and smoke this spliff.
Let's do it.
Oh man, those two hits got me singing.
Well, you guys running like GH4s or something?
Yeah.
I mean, I'm learning about cameras and everything now.
Like I know about, you know, the SM7B and the fuck.
I know all the cameras and the different lighting and
SM7B, what the fuck is that?
I don't know.
I don't know cameras at all to be honest with you.
I don't even know what that is.
Are you laughing back there right now?
Yeah, he is.
He knows what an SM7B is.
What's an SM7B?
It's like a black magic camera or something?
You guys are all fucking with me right now.
No, I don't know what the fucking SM7B, maybe I'm too,
maybe I took too many hits of that, that doink outback.
What's an SM7B?
What is this?
Oh, this fucking microphone.
Yeah.
I don't know, bro.
I don't keep up with the names of all these things.
What you're talking about.
Dude, this is a short SM7B.
That's the model of the microphone.
This is an industry standard for all podcasts.
This is the Rogan podcast.
This is the Ovan podcast.
This is fucking your mom's house podcast.
Everybody uses the shirt SM7B.
Yeah, they all use the same one.
You should have known, Danny, you bought these things.
Yeah, bro, I don't keep track of the model number though.
Yeah, these things are like $400 apiece, dude.
I don't know how you would know the model number.
You know how much shit I had to buy to put in this thing?
Oh, I know, I just did it.
I just finished doing it.
No, I know.
Fuck, I know all about it.
So you got the SM7Bs?
Dude, I got the fucking,
I went with the Rode podcast mics.
So not the SM7Bs.
I didn't go with the SM7B,
but I'm gonna upgrade.
I'm gonna upgrade,
because I'm gonna upgrade.
I'm definitely gonna.
All them $1,000 consultations.
You better be rocking an SM7B, John Boziak.
I know, I know, I know.
I'm, listen, I got my training wheels on right now, okay?
Oh, I didn't mean, you know, I'm just,
I'm so green to all of this.
Like before, I didn't know what an XLR cable was.
Well, it's sick that you're trying something
completely fucking new in a whole new universe
of fucking professional work.
It's not like being a tattoo artist
or a graphic designer or a credit card.
No, it's not, dude.
This is, you know, you,
I'm learning that you just have to spend the money
and get the right shit and do everything the right way
or else the end product,
you're not gonna be happy with it.
And me being OCD.
Well, you gotta start.
You don't have to do all that shit right away.
You just start doing shit.
In my mind, in my mind, I know.
Well, I started with my cell phone in my car.
If you watch my earlier videos,
then when I first started my channel,
I only had my cell phone.
And I would just sit in my car
because that's the only place it was quiet.
And I would turn on the lights
because that was a proper lighting.
And that was, that's where I did all my videos at.
This dude I had on the podcast a couple of days ago
was just telling you about the psychedelic guy.
He shot a whole documentary on his iPhone.
Like a Trump rally or something like that.
It got fucking tons of attention online.
It was like a great documentary.
You never would have thought it was shot on an iPhone.
But he doesn't care.
Yeah, you know, so like I said, I'm just learning, dude.
I'm learning about the cameras.
I watched probably a week or two worth of YouTube videos
every single day about the comparison
between the Alpha 6400 Sony or the,
and then in my, cause I had a price range.
A what worth of YouTube videos?
Like a week's worth.
Like every day, all day, like for a week,
just for the cameras,
just to figure out the camera.
That many hours of YouTube consumption.
I was fucking obsessed.
Like just to figure out the camera situation.
So, you know.
Yeah, you can go down a dark hole
trying to figure that shit out.
Cause I don't know what an aperture is.
I didn't know where the fucking ISO,
but I didn't know any of this shit.
You know, I didn't go to school for fucking film.
I don't know about the shit.
I didn't, yeah.
You know, so I had to learn all of that.
And I had to watch videos about what an aperture was
and about, you know, the different,
how the, the, the, what the lens basically does
is changes the way the fucking, the amount of light.
It's open, yeah.
The amount of light it lets in
and then the overexposure for the shots.
And I'm like, I had to learn all of that.
I didn't know any of that.
You know, so I, once I learned those things,
I was like, okay, well, this is my price range
I'm working with.
And here's the cameras that are in my price.
So then I had to do all the comparisons, break them down.
I thought it was going to be the
Sony Alpha 6400 or the Canon M50 or the Sony Z, ZV1.
Which I ended up getting two.
I got, actually I'm getting the Alpha 6400
but I got the ZV1 is my main shooter.
That center camera is the Alpha 6400.
These two are GH4s.
That's the best camera you buy.
I know the Lumix these, yeah.
They're so cheap.
They're like 500 bucks.
Yeah.
I don't know, man.
Like I did my research, dude.
It was like, I kind of came down to the 6400
for the wide shots because, you know,
That's a wide shot, yeah.
For the wide shot camera.
And then but I use right now for my up close shots
I'm using the ZV1, which is, it's a camera,
it's a point and shoot, but it's in the higher price range.
It's in like a thousand dollar price range.
And it was created by Sony as their first camera
specifically for YouTubers.
For bloggers and people who shoot YouTube videos
and shit like that.
So it was specifically designed for that purpose.
And I was like, oh, it's fucking,
so I bought one of those.
And that's what I shoot everything on.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what I shoot most of all my content on, yeah.
But like, I don't even, I don't even,
I'm not even editing in Final Cut or anything like that.
I'm fucking editing on a Samsung Galaxy Tablet S7.
No fucking bullshit on a free program called InShot.
I fucking bullshit you not.
That's how I edit everything.
That's great.
The music, the fucking, that's how I do all my intros,
fucking everything, you know, all the mixing, the fucking.
You know, so eventually I'm gonna get a Mac.
I'm gonna have to.
Or, you know, a gaming PC because I like Windows.
And if I'm only, if only editing video on it,
what the fuck does it matter?
I'm not gonna spend $2,500 on a MacBook.
This is like a legit gaming PC we have over here
and that thing works great.
Yeah, I mean, you can, you can edit 4K video
without dropping fucking frames and all that shit on it.
If you've got at least fucking, you know,
16 gigabytes of RAM, you know what I mean?
And a good fucking graphics card.
So it's like, yeah, you know,
so I can build one of those in my eyes closed.
You know what I mean?
I've been building computers since I was 10 or 12 years old.
You know, so I go and build one of those.
And then, you know, then I'll get into Final Cut
and then I'll get into fucking editing all the time.
Well, Final Cut, he won't use that anymore.
People use Premiere now.
What is it now?
Premiere, that's okay.
That's what it is, Premiere.
I think Final Cut went out of business.
Okay.
No, I don't know.
Final Cut was owned by Apple, I think,
but they don't make it anymore.
Maybe they do.
They make like a more consumer version of it.
So like I said, I'm still,
I don't even know that side of it.
Final Cut's now like just basically
bulled down to an iPhone app, I think.
Okay, so yeah, I'm going to,
that's, I still have to learn the whole editing side,
but like, I feel like my videos are edited decently.
You know what I mean?
Like I do a pretty good job of fucking,
of getting everything cut up now.
And like, since I record and I edit my own videos,
like I know like if I'm going to pause
or like I lose my train of thought,
I know to give like a buffer in between my pause
and like when I hit pause on the thing,
or cause like it's in that pause
where you're going to edit it at.
You know what I mean?
Like that's where you're going to make your cuts at.
And if you don't give yourself enough pause,
it's going to cut the,
it's going to make the jump from one fucking cut
to the next, not kind of a little less seamless.
Yeah.
So I'm learning all these little tricks and shit.
You know, but like I said,
I'm obsessed with it, dude.
I wake up and I just do this shit all day long,
every day, you know, learning about everything.
The lighting, the lighting's a whole another fucking animal,
dude, that I just fed absolutely fat up.
It's also a really important part.
Yeah. I'm fed up with it, dude.
Like every time I move a light,
it changes the whole fucking,
then I got to change the ISO,
but then you got to fucking get one of those.
Yeah.
Well, I don't know if you've seen
and like my recent videos on my channel,
like the way my, I have like a back wall set up.
Yeah. That's that wall sick.
Everybody digs the wall, man, huh?
Everybody digs the wall.
I like the wall.
That came from right here, man.
That came from right here.
Where'd you get that wall?
So I actually, I was watching a lot of YouTube channels,
like the gamers.
And so there's like this whole like subculture
of like just videos about gamers and their setups.
So yeah, for people listening
who don't know what we're talking about,
it's like explaining what the wall looks like.
So I have like a faux wall in the back of me.
It's like this crazy like 3D looking wall.
I have PVC, a three dimensional PVC wall tiles
that I arranged in a, you know,
a certain pattern behind me.
And then I got it lit up with a LED or RGB flood lights
where I can change, you know, the colors
and do whatever I want.
Yeah. And then I got like a one like single stationary
leather chair with my, you know, my nice table
with the mic arm and the fucking, the mic boom.
And you know what I mean?
Like it's fucking, I got legitimate fucking, you know,
cinema lights, but it's just like,
I think I have to go with like a soft box
because I need, because the way my chair sits in the wall,
like I still want the wall to be.
You weren't lit up very well.
No, I know. And it's like, I'm, I'm struggling with it.
You know what I mean? That's it.
But I don't know, I don't know if that you can hang what I say.
It was right above the, like right above the camera,
like right in front of me and.
So if you're sitting here, you're facing me
and say I'm the camera, right?
I'm the camera shooting at you right now.
Cameras, say this is your camera, right?
Shooting at you. Yes.
This light ball is to the right of you.
It's lighting up half your face.
It goes right down your nose.
So there's a shadow that goes right down the center
of your face. That's what you want.
Okay. It gives you more like depth.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I don't know about that. Yeah. Yeah.
But one guy told me to put.
And you already had the light on the back wall.
So you have a backlight. Yeah. I have two lights.
So I have one here and they're, you know,
they're adjustable. They're the, I don't remember.
And it's a soft light too.
So you want, you want a soft light like that.
And then you, you don't want to be directly.
I mean, it depends on how much.
Well, I can adjust the softness of my lights to, yeah.
Yeah. You gotta fuck around with it.
I know, man. Like I said, I'm, I just,
I wish I had more time cause I got a tattoo and then like.
Yeah. It's like, I've been thinking about
just quitting tattooing to be completely.
Really? Yeah.
Why?
Cause I want to do YouTube, man.
Like I want to make videos too.
Like I want to make, I want to, I want to do content.
Like I don't give a fuck about anything else.
Everything else, like the passion that I had
when I first started tattooing and like made it my life,
that's how I kind of feel now about like creating content
for YouTube and like doing podcasts, you know what I mean?
And it's like, I, I enjoyed, like I love tattoo.
It's been my life for, you know, forever, but it's like,
I find myself at the tattoo shop fucking just wanting to
leave and go to the studio and fucking like,
oh, I got an idea.
And it's like, fuck, I got this idea in my head.
I could record this fucking sick video right now,
but I have to sit here.
What's the, what kind of ideas for videos you have?
You have like just ideas pop up in your head
and you just want to talk about it.
Yeah.
Just like talk about it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Just like societal shit.
Like, you know, issues going on in my own life,
like positivity shit, like how to be successful,
you know, like how to fucking, you know,
big set goals and how important goal setting is in life.
And you know, break that down and fucking.
Yeah. And everything comes from my perspective,
from my unique perspective, from my brain.
Cause we're all different.
We're all different fucking humans.
We all have different thoughts.
And, and it's like this whole, you know,
wave of fucking, of just being able to watch
another human being and get their perspective
on a different angle.
And you're like, you know,
something you don't even think about, you know?
And I think that's just what I, what I do for people
because you said, I don't,
I don't know if these people were weirdos.
I don't know what the fuck's going on,
but I would like to think not.
I would like to think that all my,
most of my subscribers are level headed,
you know, regular functioning adults in society.
And these people tell me that I have a,
I affect their lives.
You know what I mean?
Like I helped one dude fucking, you know,
get off drugs, literally.
Well, that he says, I don't know,
he could be, the whole thing could be fucking bullshit.
But apparently I helped him fucking my videos,
like the ones I made about like,
I made a video about like substance abuse
and about like, you know, like being addicted to shit
and like, you know, the, the,
the mental process that I feel like you have to go through
to get rid of the fucking addictions
and you know, all that shit.
Dude, I have been clean for X amount of days or whatever.
And then, you know, I got other people that are like,
listen, I wait for your videos.
I have them reminders set.
So like, you know, I got one dude in Maryland,
said he's got the whole DMV fucking rocking with me.
He watched, he works at the DMV
and he's fucking got everybody at the DMV fucking.
Why I'd subscribed to my fucking channel,
watching my videos and shit.
That's fucking hilarious.
So like this shit's going crazy.
It's going, I got people from Australia.
I got people from the, from fucking not Ireland,
but Scotland reaching out and just hitting me up
on Instagram and saying, yo, mate,
you know, we fucking down under fucking, yeah.
Scotland. Hey, mate.
Oh yeah. I, listen, I could show you.
I could show you something.
So I could show you all the deals.
I really wish you had that kid who was talking shit to you.
I really wish you had his recording saved on there.
I know.
I know you fucking do.
No, no, no, no.
It's not a different.
It's not a different app on a different device.
Yeah. So even if I log into that app on this device,
it won't be there.
It won't be in the fucking.
But yeah, you know, so.
Put your energy towards something positive.
It's not towards, not towards fucking.
You know what?
It got to me that day for some,
whatever reason it.
No, I'm talking to that kid, not you.
Oh, put your energy.
Look at, like, look what you're doing.
You're putting all this energy.
You're obsessed with the cameras.
You're obsessed with the,
getting everything right and getting the letting right
and talking about it and wanting to do it.
And there's some people out there who just,
they want to put all their energy
towards some fuck shit like that.
Yeah. I mean.
Just to make what, what is the payoff to try to be like,
you know what, fuck you.
You got to tell me how to do this or cause you, whatever.
Like, it's wild, man.
Like, people are just fucking,
some people in this world are just burnt.
Yeah. You know?
And then some are just kids.
You know, they just, they just don't have an,
you know, experience, they don't have enough life experience
to understand that you don't speak to people that way.
And there's a certain way that you go about
getting what you want.
Yeah. You know.
No consequences to it anymore.
Yeah. So, you know, they just don't,
they just don't learn these lessons, you know?
So that's why, unfortunately, there's people like that.
Yeah. That's why parenting is really important.
I agree.
I agree. Yeah.
Yeah, do it right.
Yep.
Well, this was a great podcast, bro.
I agree. Thanks for coming down and doing it.
No, man. Any time I'll fucking come down here, you know,
whenever you want me here, dude, just let me know.
I'll come and do this.
Hopefully, hopefully you can move here.
Maybe you're going to move to Texas,
like everybody else.
I don't know, man.
Florida's just as good if not better.
I think Florida's better than Texas.
I've never really hung out in Texas.
I'm a Florida cracker, man.
Through and through.
I grew up here.
I went, you know, my whole, I spent my whole life here.
So, you know, I don't mind coming back.
I leave all the time for, you know, a little bit,
but I always fucking end up back here eventually.
So, yeah.
Cool, man.
Cool, man.
Well, tell everyone listening where to follow all your shit
and subscribe and everything.
Hell, yeah.
Fuck with me on Instagram, slum by nature.
You know, I got, fuck me on Patreon, boziak conundrum.
You know, subscribe to my YouTube channel,
boziak conundrum.
And yeah, I'm going to be putting out tons of content
coming up pretty soon.
I got a lot of time coming up on my hands
to go ahead and just kind of film what I want to film.
I'm going to do a lot of behind the scenes shit as well
for my Patreon only.
So I'm going to have like a secondary set of cameras
filming my podcast while I'm filming a podcast
along with, you know, some, some few other little
tidbits here and there.
So that's going to be available to all my Patreon subscribers.
You know, and anybody that's, you know,
rocking with me from the first fucking concrete podcast,
I really appreciate it.
Cause you know, this, this, all this shit has changed my life.
And yeah, so thanks for fucking with me.
Hell yeah, man.
That's awesome. What about the only fans?
The only fans? No, or no?
You know, I, I haven't really figured out what kind of content
I'm going to do for my only fans.
So I'm not really promoting the only fans right now
cause people have been subscribing
and I haven't been doing anything and they've been getting pissed.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
Like what's going on?
You know what I mean?
So it's just like, I tell,
I figure out what I want to do with that.
Then I'm just going to, you know,
I'm not really going to promote that.
For sure.
Cool, bro. Well, thanks for being here, man.
I really enjoyed it.
Yeah. Thank you, brother.
All right. That's all folks.
