We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world. Today's guest is John Boziak.
John is an insane character and a notorious cyber criminal.
Matt Cox actually met John in prison and ended up writing a book about his story. It's called BENT.
At 26 years old, John was the most prolific manufacturer of counterfeit credit cards in the entire international cyber crime industry.
This kid went from being homeless at the age of 14 in the streets of Miami to one of the most cunning scammers in identity thieves ever.
He was even selling credit cards to the Russian mob at one point.
We went in on some crazy, crazy stories that he told about his life, scamming and running from the Secret Service.
Anyways, I hope you enjoy this podcast as much as I did. It was wild.
Without further ado, please welcome John Boziak.
Thanks for coming on, John. I appreciate you coming down here.
Thanks for having me.
Your story is super interesting. I'm so glad that you were able to meet Matt in prison and tell him your story because it is wild.
You were at age 26, one of the most prolific credit card scammer in the world. Is that right?
I wouldn't say the world, but yeah.
Matt was trying to spice it up.
I was definitely doing something. I was shaking and moving.
Why are you here, Matt? Why are you here with John?
Only because it's comical. You know guys will be watching and they'll be waiting for me to say something and I'm just sitting here going.
Other than that, they'll be like, why is Cox here?
I think the hardcore fans know why you're here, but let's go ahead and put it still.
Yeah, let's tell everyone why you're here.
That's a thousand people.
Why are you here?
I was saying you're looking for a hundred thousand.
Hopefully.
Hopefully.
So what ends up happening is, when I was in prison, that's when I met, I always say Boziak, but when you went to go with John, you're going with John.
Whatever you want.
Yeah, let's go with John, sure.
Okay, John.
So basically, I was in prison. I didn't even talk to him for like the first couple months because he's walking around.
I thought he was here for drugs. I knew he had a short sentence, so I didn't think there's no reason to talk to some guy who's going to be gone in six months or a year.
No reason.
But I was standing in line one day.
How did you, like, I don't even remember how did you figure out the whole fraud thing?
So we were standing in line.
Chow Hall.
In the Chow Hall.
And we were standing there.
Somebody came up and somebody happened to come up to me and say, you know, like some other guy had just gotten there or whatever and they were talking about me because there were not a ton of fraud guys.
And somebody said, hey, God, what did you get charged with?
And I was standing there and I said, you know, fucking bank fraud, conspiracy to commit bank fraud, passport fraud.
You know, I started just naming off it and I got too aggravated identity theft and he's standing behind me and he goes, that's what I'm here.
That's what I got charged for.
I remember I turned around and I looked at it and I go.
I remember that.
You don't remember that?
No, I don't remember that.
And I remember I said, really, I said, I just figured you were here for meth and you went like this and you go, what made you think that?
And you started laughing and I thought, because you had all the tattoos and I thought, this dude's all right.
And then I said, well, what did you do?
What do you mean aggravated identity theft?
And you go, yeah, I was doing it.
And you start telling me by the time we got to our fucking or got to our food, I was thinking, oh, I got to hear this whole story.
He sat in the chow hall till they closed the fucker down.
Oh, yeah.
We were the last two motherfuckers in there.
Yeah.
Gards are telling everybody to leave.
We're just like, all right.
I mean, he just fucking told me that.
I remember that.
Because remember Kingpin, when you were halfway through your story, I was like, this is just like Kingpin.
There's a book called Kingpin.
And I was like, this is just like Kingpin.
And you said, I was on that fucking forum.
I know some of those guys.
Yeah, those two guys were inspired me to do fraud, to do credit card fraud.
And those guys were like, when I, when I, like,
Max Butler.
No, Max.
Max Butler.
I watched their Inside, Inside True Crime episode on MSNBC.
Good shit.
And that's when it fucking blew the whole, blew the whole thing open for me.
I was like, oh, okay.
And that's when I said, man, I got to write, I got to write your fucking story.
I got to, I feel like we've, I've interviewed a lot of people who have done crazy crimes on this podcast.
And I feel like yours is different because your story is just like from where you came,
where you came from in Miami.
You were like a homeless kid, a super young homeless kid.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was pretty much doing my own thing from a pretty, pretty young age.
Yeah.
I always find it interesting people like you who come from that kind of background with basically no parents.
At what age were you homeless from like, what age to what age?
Like, when did you first become homeless?
That's a difficult one.
Technically, there's different stages of homelessness, I guess.
I mean, you know, you've got the straight up sleeping behind a fucking dumpster,
eating out a trash can homeless.
And then you've got like the kind of like, I'm just couchsurfing,
staying at people's houses homeless.
So, yeah, so like probably 13, 13 or 14 years old, I was just gone.
Yeah.
Out doing my own thing, sleeping on couches, staying out all night.
You know, no curfew, no rules.
The crazy parallel that I guess I made with your story is that you find a lot of really successful people,
a lot of successful entrepreneurs come from that same type of background
where they're kind of like disconnected from their parents or their parents abandoned them or whatever
and they just had to figure it out on their own.
So, I just found your story super fascinating in that regard.
Yeah, it's the adversity.
I think the adversity builds character in the long run.
You know, people who have had struggle early on in life usually tend to do pretty great things later on in life.
It equipped me to deal with situations later on in life that would break most people.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And it allowed me to sort of live in this frame of mind where I just, I don't really give a fuck.
Because I've slept on the street, I've eaten out of trash cans, I've been at rock bottom
and once you've been at rock bottom, you're not scared to go back
because there's only one way to go but up from there, you know.
And like I said, all of the adversity I had to go through early on I think definitely set me up for success
in a weird way, you know.
So, how did you get into this world of scamming?
Growing up on the street, you had to survive.
Yeah.
You know, so it was shoplifting and it was figuring out ways to get free food
and it was figuring out ways to scam this and figuring out ways to scam that.
You know, so it always starts small and then it builds over time, over time and over time
and over years it just gets bigger and bigger and the scams get bigger and the risks get bigger.
And yeah, so it starts small, you know, it started with, I think I started making fake coupons
on the computer using Photoshop to go and get free food, you know.
And then it went from there to scamming the library system,
trying to figure out how to get free internet service and you know what I mean,
trying to figure out how to get free streams online with, and you know, it's just been a never-ending saga.
Fraud has been such a huge part of my life, unfortunately.
And the fraud that you were committing was heavily influenced by your skills in design and Photoshop?
Is that right?
Yeah, I was always been interested in graphic design and media arts and stuff like that
and always played around the computer and did a little bit of web development, graphic design.
And that, yeah, it allowed me to see, okay, I can do this.
And I had an artistic spin, I was like, I can do this or I can do that or if this scam comes along,
I'm able to, you know, figure out how to work every angle of it pretty much just through that one avenue.
So initially, what was it? You were just trying to get by, you were just trying to eat and put clothes on your back?
Is that why you were scanning it first?
I didn't want to work a job.
Right.
Yeah, I didn't want to work a regular nine to five.
To me, this is going to sound insane, but I would rather commit suicide
or spend the rest of my life in prison than work a regular nine to five job.
It's just not in the cards for me.
Yeah, I can relate to you there.
Yeah, it's just not something I can't do it.
I can't wake up every day and go to the same building and punch a clock.
You know what I mean?
Because at the end of the day, there's a ceiling.
Yeah, for sure.
You know what I'm saying?
You're always going to have that limitation placed on you.
And I can't live with limitations.
I can't.
It limits my thinking.
It limits my, you know what I'm saying?
So you started out homeless, scamming, doing little scams,
like trying to scam people with fake lottery tickets and coupons, right?
How do you graduate from that to literally printing thousands and thousands of credit cards
and making millions of dollars a month?
Well, that didn't happen overnight.
It was a slow process.
You know, I started buying cards myself online and using them.
When you say buying cards, what do you mean by that?
Plastic.
So I'm not sure how deep you want to get into it.
It's deep as we can get.
Okay.
Ball's deep, baby.
The credit card forms, yeah.
Explain, yeah.
Sure.
The credit card forms.
Okay.
Well, I guess the easiest way to explain it is to kind of break it down
and how the whole thing actually kind of works is anytime you go to a store
and you use your debit card and you swipe that magnetic strip.
Yeah.
That information that's stored on that magnetic strip is sent to a server somewhere
and it's held.
Well, these kids over in Russia or Ukraine or wherever these kids are,
they hack, they get these numbers and these numbers by themselves are useless.
I mean, you can't go online and buy anything with them.
You know, it's pretty much just a raw metadata that's encoded to the back of your plastic
card.
Right.
Now, they sell this information for five, six, seven, 10, $20, $30 a pop, whatever.
Now, with that information, you have to have another piece of equipment
and you have to have a physical card to write that information to,
to be able to clone, to copy, to go, to use it in retail setting.
You follow along so far?
Yeah.
And basically, so basically what you do is you got two different vendors that you can
find and you've got different various avenues to get to these vendors.
You know, if you got back when I was doing, this is back in the early 2000s,
there was carding forums, which don't really exist anymore.
The FBI and Secret Service and everything did a pretty good job of shutting them all down.
But yeah, you go to these, you go to these websites and you go to these, these pages
and you get these numbers and you code them to the cards, you go out and use them.
And this is what I was doing in the beginning.
You know, I would, I would log on, I would figure out what numbers were working and,
and they're called dumps is the terminology.
Dumps?
Yeah, that's the terminology for the, for the track information.
Yeah, it's like a, it's, it's a dump of information.
So, yeah, that's the terminology.
And this is the black strip on the back of the credit card?
The magnetic strip in the back of the credit card.
Correct.
That's the dump.
Yeah, that's your, that's your track information.
It's referred to as a dump if you're going to purchase it on the black market.
And so, yeah, you know, I would purchase these dumps and I would, I would, you know,
have to figure out the plastic to write them to.
And at that time, the plastic was expensive.
Like vendors selling plastic was like a hundred, 200 bucks a piece for one single,
for one single card that they would print that they would make and they would sell it to you.
And then you would have a piece of equipment called an MSR 206 reader-writer and you would have to,
encode, you know, write your own, encode your own cards and figure out how to use them.
And you're buying these legally, like in the U.S.?
The cars, the cars were legal.
No, no, no, no.
It's all, this is all illegal.
Everything.
There's nothing about this that's legal at all.
Yeah.
It's, it's, it's fraud.
All the way around.
Sorry.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, it is podcast.
Oh, stop.
Your stuff's going to stop.
Typically you turn your phone off.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It's fraud all the way around.
So yeah, you can, I mean, you can buy these plastic cards blank, legally, but then you're
going to need like a printer to put the, you know, the logos and the templates and the design
and all that stuff like that.
So yeah.
Yeah.
So I got into it and I started using them, just slowly here and there.
And then I kind of figured out, like, you know, I'm missing out on some good money.
I'm kind of being middle, you know.
The money's not, the money to me wasn't in using the cards at the, at the stores, like
the retail.
I mean, it was fun at first.
You know, being able to walk into a store and pretty much swipe and, you know, get
whatever you want.
There's a rush.
There's a certain rush to it.
You know what I mean?
But when you look at it from a financial standpoint, it just, it wasn't, it wasn't sustainable
for any kind of long, long term, because you're taking too much risk.
You know, I'm walking in, I'm putting my face on a hundred different cameras every day.
And let's, I mean, let's say on a good day you hit five Walmart's and you got a laptop
from every Walmart.
You're doing good, right?
You got five laptops.
You can go and sell them.
But once you do that, you got to go back and get five more and you got to go back and get
five more and you got to go back and get five more.
You need a way to scale.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I mean, I can't, it's just, it, like I said, it's just, I needed a, I needed, I needed
more money and I needed less risk.
So where do the money, where do the money come from though?
So you're buying, you're the dump.
So the information.
That's not real.
That's your information.
Some citizen's information.
Okay.
So that, so the dumps that you're buying is, is some victims.
Yeah.
Like I explained in the beginning, it's like when you go to any store and you swipe your
debit card, that information is saved somewhere.
Okay.
And then that information is subsequently hacked.
Got it.
From whoever and then sold on the market.
Got it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So that's the first, that's like the front end of the operation.
The back end of the operation is the, the actual manufacturing of the, the cards themselves.
And there's like a whole other market for that as well.
You know, like, so there's people who sell just plastics.
They're called plastic vendors, which is what I eventually ended up making all my money
is where I found my success at later was with just actually being a plastics vendor, myself
selling plastic.
Um, you know, but like in the beginning, I didn't know, I was green.
Like I had no fucking idea.
You know, so I'm using them in stores.
I'm sorry.
Can I say something?
But basically.
You'd like to interject?
Yes, I'd like to interject.
Basically.
You had to raise your hand and ask for permission.
Okay.
Basically.
But it was, you were, you were at that point, it was your brother who kind of came, had
mentioned.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was human.
Like how do you get into it?
You know, get up on game, kind of turn me on to it and then it kind of built from there.
So it's like, it didn't come out of the gate knowing this.
It's like it was, it was, you know, the brother.
There was a lot of mistakes made.
They slowly started.
Yeah.
There's a lot of mistakes made.
I mean, I would, I would go to a store and all my cards would get declined and I've been
chased out of stores by security.
I've been, you know what I mean?
Like I've, there's plenty of, of, of trial and error to this whole thing.
You know, I just didn't start off making crazy amounts of money.
You know, it took, it took about, took about two years actually of just slowly, you know,
building and working on the product and trying to, trying to make it better and trying to
figure out, you know, little by little, by little, by little.
So you're buying these cards, loaded up with people's information.
You're going to stores, you're buying laptops, you're buying electronics and shit.
What do you do?
You sell it on eBay?
Sell it on Craigslist?
Yeah.
Craigslist and everything pretty much.
Yeah.
Okay.
And what kind of money are you making doing that?
It was, it was up and down, man.
You know, cause like another part of the problem is you, you really don't know what you're
making, what each limit of each card is going to be because I don't know how much money
you have in your bank account.
You know what I mean?
So it's like, if I'm walking into a store, I don't know, I don't know how much I'm going
to swipe for.
So the money, it was never consistent.
So it was like, maybe I'd make a couple thousand dollars one week and then the next week I'd
lose a couple thousand dollars, you know what I mean?
Or the next week I'd make $3,000 and then the next week I would make $500.
So the money was never consistent and it was like every store you go into, it's like you
got to watch security and you got to pick your, your piercing at the counter and it's
like a whole, it's, it becomes exhausting after a while.
Right.
Yeah.
So how did you graduate from, what did you graduate to after that and how did you step
it up a level?
Um, yeah.
Well, I started doing online carding actually, which normally people usually do the online
carding first, but then I started to get into the online carding second.
And that's when I got onto the online, I really got into the online forums because the online
carding pushed me more online because the physical carding is just more, okay, I'm
going to buy up and I'm in the stores all day long.
I'm out doing the stores and I'm doing the physical aspect part of it.
But when I really started getting into the online carding is when I started getting into
like the carding forums and I started reading tutorials and I started talking to other guys
that were doing fraud.
And I kind of, you know what I mean?
Like there were some guys that would do a bunch of fraud and they would just write a
whole matrix on it.
What year is this 2004, 2005?
So this is pre Silk Road.
This is pre Silk Road.
Yeah, like the Silk Road didn't even exist at this time.
There was no dark web, Silk Road, it just didn't exist.
So I was using IRC chats and I was using carding forums.
There was no Bitcoin.
Was there?
Bitcoin was in its infancy, which I invested, believe it or not, I invested I think somewhere
around $2,500 in Bitcoin when they first kicked off and that I would be a multimillionaire
by now.
100 times over.
Holy fuck.
Yeah, but that laptop that that Bitcoin on was confiscated by the Secret Service.
No way.
Yeah, so the Secret Service has a laptop now with probably $100 million on it.
I mean, I don't know what the conversion rate is now.
I mean, you know, I mean, do the math, 2005, Bitcoin was like $12,000, $13,000 right now.
So yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Mm.
Major bummer.
Fuck.
All right.
So you're on the, you're on these, these forums.
So I got in, I got in the online forums and I really, it really opened my eyes to the
whole world of carding and fraud and the actual technical side behind it on the back end.
And that's when I kind of figured out where the money was at, like where the money is
to be made at.
And it was in plastic.
It was in plastic because the guy making the most money wasn't the guy mining the gold.
It was the guy selling the pickaxes.
Exactly.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
And that's where my mind went to.
And I was like, you know what?
I like that.
Yeah.
I was just like that.
Well yeah.
I had a good friend who said that to me years ago and it's always stuck with me.
Yeah.
And it made sense to me too at the time and I was like, okay, where's the money at?
Where's the money at in this whole, let's sit down and look at this whole thing subjectively.
Let's look at everything and figure out where the money is.
And once I figured that out, then I started working at that little puzzle.
Okay.
So how did you, how did you figure out that piece of the puzzle?
How did you start?
Trial and error, man.
How did you be like, you know, start making these pickaxes, these credit cards?
Yeah.
I bought just a piece of shit, cheap fucking, I think it was like a Fargo DTC printer from
eBay.
It was like $200 and the cards that you made with it were shit.
Like the quality.
They never printed right or anything like that.
And I was making them.
I was fucking going out to the store trying to use them.
You know what I mean?
And I was getting ran out of stores.
And so it was like, so I had to start with like a real low tech operation.
Like I was using like a manual embosser to push the numbers in the cards.
Like I had a big fucking wheel in it with all the fucking characters and you had like
an old, you know, like an old rotary phone, physically stamp out the card, you know.
So I started, I started real, real low tech, you know, and then I knew, you know, the better
equipment I did, you know, get the money and buy the better printer by the, the manual
or the automatic embosser by the heat, the foil, stamper and it's just, I knew every
piece of equipment I had to buy to make my product better.
And that was like the main, that was like the first main goal.
Where'd you buy like the blank, the actual physical blanks?
Oh, there's a website.
There's a, that sells like all that crap, that sells like the, the printer ribbons for
the printer for the Fargo printers.
They sell the blank because none of this equipment is illegal to own or purchase.
Right.
I mean, you can, you can purchase all this equipment for, you know, for your business.
Make gift cards.
You can make it.
Say you want to do employee ID badges or hospitals and banks and all, you know, also like all
this equipment is, it's readily available on the internet.
You just got to know where to look.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
So how did you, what kind of money were you making?
Like, like.
In the beginning I wasn't making shit.
Like in the beginning you were just buying shit and selling it on Craigslist.
Yeah.
I was in the hole in the beginning.
Like I've, I've lost so much money doing all this crap.
I think I pour so much money in the beginning.
It was just ridiculous.
I mean, I was getting robbed.
You know what I mean?
Like I, there's a bunch of scammers online.
Like you got to go through that whole rigmarole and get robbed 10 times before you actually
find somebody who's legitimate.
And so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a hole.
I mean, you're dealing with scumbags.
There's no like, there's no like, uh, like rating system like on eBay.
There is now.
There is now.
Oh, there is now.
Yeah.
I mean they've got, they've got escrow services and shit now for fraud.
Like say I want to say I want to buy like a hundred pieces of plastic off a vendor and
I don't, I've never purchased from you before.
Well, there's a, there's a fucking fraud escrow service where you send the money to escrow.
I get my, I get my product.
I tell escrow, okay, I'm a satisfied with it and they go ahead and release the money
to the vendor.
Wow.
Like it's all fucking.
It's legit now.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
I was back in the Flintstone days, man.
I was one of the pioneer, first pioneers of this whole fucking thing.
I think.
That's fucking wild dude.
Yeah.
It's all Star Trek.
Is this stuff, is this stuff still going on right like today?
Is it?
The game's changed a little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I mean it's still the same.
It's still the same.
But you know, banks have cracked down a lot harder.
You know what I mean?
So say I would buy a hundred dumps, a hundred cards and they were from like California and
I was in Michigan.
If they tried to use them in Michigan, they would get declined right away.
Now they would.
Before it wasn't so much, but now it's, yeah, now it's, the whole game's changed.
And I don't even know if there's a whole lot of money left in it anymore.
You know?
Yeah.
Not like there was before anyway.
So you had like some hot chick you were dating, right?
Which one?
What part of the story was this?
You were dating.
You were dating.
You were dating.
You were dating.
You were dating.
So you were like Black.
This is black.
Yeah.
It was Blackmailing you, saying she's going to rat you out as you have all this.
She said that you had like, or you said in the story it says that you had all these like
expensive clothes in your apartment.
You had a bunch of shoes and watches and jewelry and all kinds of shit you were buying.
Yeah.
She was a piece of shit.
How much money how much money did you have then?
Like at that point?
When you were living with her?
Maybe 60 grand, 80 grand less than $100,000, I think I had that point in time because
I was living.
I was in Michigan.
It was this on the Flintstone machine
No, this is I was actually I was actually doing something his car. You were car. Yeah, I was I was in full swing now in full swing
Yeah, I was in full swing when I was with her. Okay, but I was actually that was you weren't making the cards at that point
You didn't these were just this you guys you and your brother was just carding
No, no, no when I was with when I was with Felicia
I was this is after me my brother had already done the thing and I'd I was in Michigan
Okay, and then I was you know going back or whatever, but yeah, yeah, so why did you move to Michigan?
You went from Miami to Michigan. How do my whole family's from Michigan? Okay. Yeah, so you were originally from Michigan
I was born in Michigan. Yeah, okay. Yeah
And you went back when?
This was right before right before I met my wife right before I got caught in Temple Terrace, so this was probably
2007-2008 or something like that. Yeah, I'm not really okay the details are fun
I smoke a lot of pot dude, so like you know fine details with me 300 milligrams is kicking in right now
I think so a little bit
But um, do you have a probation officer or you might let us say no, no, no, I'm good. Yeah, I'm good
Hell, yeah, yeah, I got out of prison and I went right back to prison after I got out
And then I had like three years of paper and they fucking killed my paper
How long were you prison prison for total? I did 24 months total 24 months. That's it. Yeah, Jesus Christ Matt
How long were you in for you were in for like nine years like in 12 and I did 12 years almost 13 years
Yeah, I got lucky. Yeah, I got lucky and this dude made more money than you made. Yeah
He was supposed to get like 10 years
Yeah, they were trying to slam me. They were really trying to slam me. I had I had the best lawyer ever
How the hell did you get out of all that? Yeah, huh? How did you get out of all this?
I had a good lawyer. Wow defender. Yeah, that's amazing. Yeah, she was just she just took a liking to me
And just did not want to see me doing all that time
Okay, so let's go back. Let's go back in time. Let's rewind. Let's go through this thing chronologically
You have the the Flintstone credit card printer. You're just starting to get into low-tech low-tech
Low-tech what so what starts happening after that? I
Started progressively making a little bit more money mm-hmm
I
Was able to slowly just start upgrading every piece of equipment
To make a better product
Okay, that so that that was kind of like I
Say about a year it took about a year really to get going to really get like the good equipment
You know to where I could make a
Credit card that looks like it came straight from the bank mm-hmm and when I got to that point I
Was like, okay, I
Kind of knew like I didn't have the clientele yet, but I knew I had the product
I knew I had the product right
You know were you honing in like the design of these cards templates? Yeah, the templates everything had to be right
I mean I had to figure out how to make the visa logo. There's like there's holograms and shit built into these cards
Yeah, that's pretty technical the way to design them. Yeah, Chinese guys. Yeah, how did you do that?
The hologram issue I found a dude in China
Yeah, I found a I found a dude in China that owned a printing company and I basically the Alibaba
I was Alibaba or was it um, I know fire
Or something like the gate. That's still around. Oh, they're still cranking. Holy shit. That's right. Oh, so yeah
So I found a dude on there and I cut out a
Credit card I cut one out of her like a real credit card and then I mailed it to him to China
And I was like, can you do this for me?
I was like I sent him he's like send me a sample and I sent it to him and I think like six weeks later
I got like a roll of like five thousand
Visa and Mastercard holograms heat press hollows damn. Yeah
Yeah
And then once I had those it was a wrap because I mean my graphic design game is pretty dope is so yeah
Oh, yeah, it's yeah, I'm a wizard with that shit. I've always have been you know, it's just something that I've just always been natural with
uh-huh and um
So yeah, I mean once I did that and once I had that
Holograms and once I had the the actual physical product made once I figured out how to make the visa logo
Once I had figured out how to do the sig strip on the back the signature strip on the back because that's like a whole thing
And then there's like this rear indent embossing. I had to figure that out
So there was hurdles and it took it took a while took like six or eight months before I had a like a verifiable
Certifiable like you know a product that you just couldn't shoot holes in there's no way
It would be completely indistinguishable from a regular credit. Yeah, if you put your from Bank of America and you put mine next to it
There'd be no difference. There'd be no difference. That's fucking crazy, man
So
So what are you doing with that? So now now you're making these credit cards and you're selling them on these forums or what?
I started using them. Okay first. Okay, because I didn't to test them out. Yeah, so, you know, just to see do test runs and
Flying colors, you know, nobody even bad at eyelash. I never had one issue never one single issue
Maybe a couple declines, you know, just because the dump information wasn't
Probably, you know good or whatever, but
Yeah, yeah, so I was using them and then I figured out, okay, let me get on the forum
And I was already dealing with people on the forum from buying buying dumps and buying
You know buying plastic and stuff like that
So I just I talked to a few of my guys on the forum and I had to get you know
I had to vouch for me
But since I'd already been on the forum for a year and I have two years that wasn't a really big deal, you know
And I was on two or three different forums. So like I was pretty well known in the community, you know
It's just like you have like a popular screen name. I did. Yeah, US Plastico US Plastico
That's what probably in the long run. That's what probably got me fucked
Was trying to be clever and you know what I mean and oh you trying to brand yourself
I was I was thinking, you know, I shouldn't I should have just been like, you know anonymous or whatever, but
So I think that's that's but you have to stay consistent on that scam in that scam world though, right?
I mean people have to know who you are to be able to trust you. Yeah, it was like a double-edged sword
And like I said, I had two years in at that point and I knew all the major players in the game
And I knew who was doing what just from being on the forums and you know being on IRC. Yeah
Okay, so what happens next
My product got better. So did you already meet Melmo man at this?
No, Melmo man came Melmo man came after I got on to dark market. Okay, but I wasn't on no
That was Carter.su. I met Melmo man and that came later
That came, you know, that was probably towards the very end like at the very pinnacle of my career
If you if you want to put it that way Melmo man and Melmo man was the dude who opened up all the doors for me and
In the in the in the carding world. He really he had all the he knew. Yeah, he plugged me in
So you still at this point at this point you got the guy from China who?
Who printed thousands of these holograms for you for your credit cards?
Yeah, you had these fucking rock solid fake credit cards that you made
Yeah, but you still had like a long way to go before you reached your peak. Oh, yeah
Yeah, well, I had no clientele. Yeah, I had no clientele and it took a while
It took maybe six months to build to build trust in the community and to build clientele so
Thousand of these credit cards you're literally taking these little holograms and
You're physically like placing them on each of these credit cards with your hands like hand-by-hand each one each credit card
Holy shit cards. How long does that take? How long does it take to do one card? Oh, I had it down
I could preck a print one card in less than five minutes. I
Could print everything print it stick everything on to it. Yeah, well, yeah
See, I would already have all the I would already have all the the templates lined up in Photoshop
Okay, like ready to go with all my windows open bom bom bom bom bom bom bom
You know what I mean, and then I would load maybe like 10 or 15 cards in the printer
And I would be like okay print in sequence print one print two print three print four print five
So then it would it would run out all the cards print on front and back
You know I mean it would put the put all the only thing I really had to do myself was emboss and do the hologram
So I would have to physically place the hologram myself and use a heat press to adhere it to the plastic
Mm-hmm, and then I would have to to manually emboss the card myself
And this is before I got the auto embosser where I just throw them in and do a batch and it would you know run a 50 or 100 at
Time damn yeah, so when I got down when I got really efficient at it. I could maybe do a hundred cards in an hour
About an hour. I could print
Hologram and emboss about a hundred coming close to a hundred a thousand cards in a day. Yeah easy
Yeah, yeah, yeah, if I'm cranking away, but then you know sometimes you have problems
The printer starts gets too hot and starts fucking melting cards and print shit sideways
You know so you've always got little issues right yeah like that you got to deal with but yeah
I could do a thousand cards in a day. What's the most cards that you did in a day? You think
That I've manufactured in one day
I think I've done about 800 six between six and 800 in one day
You know on a good day if everything was going right and I had all my equipment operating properly
Okay, so how did you start getting this getting this out there on on online or on these black market on these
On the dark web and start getting customers to buy shit loads of them
Yeah, so so the initially the first Carter forum that I was on I went ahead and I just made my first post here
I am new vendor right here's my product. You know you post pictures
It's like a whole well it was like a whole thing not anymore
And then you know I would get maybe like one or two orders a month
You know and then once those orders came in and like people started leaving positive feedback
it just kind of snowballed after that and then I
Remember the day because I would only get maybe one or two orders
But I remember the day I woke up and I checked I think I checked one of my emails
And I had 15 or 20 20 orders waiting for me, and I couldn't believe it how much how much a thousand dollars one orders
A thousand dollars. Yeah for how many cards a hundred
Hundred cards. It's $20 a card hundred cards to drivers or you get I'd make IDs for you however many you wanted and
Then I would do I think it was like hundred cards embossed
Everything encoded numbers
And IDs and IDs
Yeah, holy shit, I wouldn't make a hundred IDs. Obviously I'd make like two or three
Okay, you know or whatever that whatever they wanted, but it mean, you know, so there was a cap on that
So the IDs have to obviously correspond with the credit cards exactly. Yeah. Yeah, because say you go to a store and you make a purchase
and
It's over like three or four hundred dollars
I like a lot of stores like people don't realize this but a lot of stores like say best buy you go to best buy you make a
Purchase over three hundred dollars
They ask physically ask for your card and they physically take your card and they they go on their POS machine now
They're POS machine the point of sale service machine won't let them process the sale
Unless the four digits on the front of the card match was actually encoded to the card
So it's like it's like a security set so what they do is they take the card and they punch the numbers into the computer
Because you've already swiped it
So they're gonna punch these numbers in these numbers on the front of the card don't match what's being swiped
It's automatic fraud
You know what I mean? Yeah, so you have to have the corresponding plastic to match the to match the numbers
And you have to have the ID because they're gonna ask for for ID because a I don't have the people's pin number
So you're not processing it as debit you always have to process it as credit even though it's a debit card
Got it. So they have to have ID when you process anything for credit
They always ask for ID always especially if it's a big purchase, right, you know, huh Louis Vuitton
You go to Louis Vuitton and try and buy a two thousand dollar handbag on a credit card
They're gonna ask you for ID right one thousand percent. Yeah, you know, even if you even if you go in there looking the part
They're still gonna have they always ask for ID, right, you know
So you have to have the ID to match the card everything has the gy the numbers everything has the to be coherent
Okay, so is there a minimum number of cards they had to buy for one order?
So is the minimum a hundred car minimum a thousand dollar minimum order, okay?
So it was a hundred cards, and then I would work with them on the ID
So like whatever they wanted, okay, cuz those were easy cool
So that's good money you're making a couple you're getting a couple orders a day
I was like one or two orders a month, and then like I said, I woke up that one morning
And I remember I had 20 orders wait on me and I couldn't believe it
One morning you just had 20 20 waiting on me. Yeah. Yeah, I remember that date distinctively. Yeah, I couldn't believe it
I was running around the house jumping off the fucking furniture. Yeah, I couldn't believe it
I mean 20 grand that's a lot of money for somebody who doesn't have shit
And for somebody who's been getting robbed and pouring all their fucking every dollar
They've had into the shit for the past two and a half years and not going anywhere, you know
So to me this was victory. This was I made it right so what else are you doing in the meantime besides?
I mean, obviously you're just sitting online like you have your info sitting online people to order and
There's only so much time you're spending making these cards. What else are you doing? I was doing some online carding
I was doing some some virtue call it virtual carding. I was doing virtual carding
I was still going in stores here and there and you know mind you I wasn't spending any money at this time either
So I had cards if I need a gas I'll go fucking fill up with a card at the gas station
If I need a groceries, I would take a card to the grocery store and buy three four hundred dollars in groceries
You know so all my money is basically just going in a fucking shoebox in the closet, and I'm not really spending any of it
Yeah, and at this point in time
I had been living off of credit cards stolen credit cards for probably three and a half years
Like I didn't have a job for three and a half years. I was just using stolen credit cards for everything
Where what were you living? At this point? I was in Coral Springs. Okay?
Your rent with the credit cards. Oh, well, I would just go like when rent time would roll around
I'd go grab a laptop or two laptops get cash cash it out go pay a thousand dollars for rent or whatever. Yeah
Wow, dude, what a fucking life
How old were you?
20 20 20 thousand a $20,000 order early 20s. Yeah, I was about 25 24 25
Yeah, yeah, when did when his shoulder surfer come shoulder surfer and memo man came in later about
2008 I think early 2008 who shoulder surfer
shoulder surfer is another dude from the
From the from the forums, okay that I was dealing with it's another another scam artist another scammer
And what was his what was his story? He was doing we were doing cashouts. So I would send him
I would send him cards and then he would
He was the guy running the
The I thought he was he was the rushing contact
Shoulder surfer. Oh, I'm sorry memo man memo man even me and memo man. I'm sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
I was just I was just thinking gummies are taken in. Yeah, the gummies are kicking in. Yeah, no, you're absolutely right
Yeah, so yeah, he wrote the book. I just lived it. I mean
I'm fucking fuzzy. Well, you know, what's funny is is
When I was writing the book like he you know, I like, you know, it's like like Milmo man
Like he would he had been talking about Milmo man
I've got all these notes with Milmo man Milmo man and Milmo man had introduced him to shoulder surface
Like how do how do you even verify that these people are and and I actually had a
I'd actually got a police report and where his brother had been arrested and like a
Target or a Walmart or something. I know what he's target. Yeah
he got arrested and target and
and
This they went on the forum the police officer went on the forum and actually took a screenshot of the forum and it showed
Everybody that had been on the forum that day and Milmo man was actually one of the people on there
Like you I've been writing it down over and over again. I just started reading through the names and sure enough
I was like, holy shit. There's Milmo man
But yeah Milmo man was the guy that it introduced you the rush that I'm sure I'm sure like to me
Shoulders, yeah, the Russian guy. Sorry. That's what I was trying to think because I remember you told me the story and
Shoulder surfing is a term for people that look over your shoulder or something like that
That's the original. Yeah, so they can get your pin number. Yeah back when tactic. Yeah back when social engineering tactic
Like he'd been he was so old. He'd been in doing it so long that
His handle was shoulder surfer, which is a thing that you wouldn't even know about it's like when you used to have like cards
You used to push you'd used if you had to call somebody long distance
You had a long distance card you had to punch in the pin number shoulder surfing was where somebody would stand over your shirt shoulder and
I'll tell you so the cameras out. All right, go ahead someone someone was stand over your shoulder and get the pin number and
Then they would sell it or you be able to use the long distance and that guy had been around so fucking long
That was his his handle was shoulder surfer
That's like the 80s or 90s or something those two was old
So that's what yeah, I knew when you mean to go off topic
But did you know back in the day when they were back in the 80s when they were doing the long distance full call
You had to put in the pin and it would give you it would register the dial tone with the company to let them know that
This was the tone to let you into the long distance phone called long. You know, yeah
There was a whistle
That they would that they sold in the and a captain crunch cereal box that it was a certain frequency that you could blow it into the fucking phone
It would give you free long distance phone calls. Well, it's yeah
You know captain crunch there captain crunch had a whistle base to sell in their cereal boxes
That was that like not on purpose. No, it was that like a certain hurts
Like the frequency was at a certain hurts for some reason it just it allowed you to if you blew it on the phone
You hit a certain digit you blew the whistle you would allow you to make a free long distance
You do this. Well, this is before my time, but you just heard about it. Yeah, this is these are the scams
I was go was like learning when I was a kid, you know all this it was everything's digital
Listen, we're talking analog shit. Yeah, all this shit was analog, you know early 90s like you know Steve jobs and what's the name?
Well, I was now was that what are they were selling that fucking box that allowed you to that was like their first little business
Was they were selling this little box that allowed you to get free long distance? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, it was like it's completely illegal like that was the first thing they did was they sold these little
I forget what they called them a blue box or something and you could you could put in a tone and it would
Over the telephone and it would give you free long distance. So you were buying these boxes and they're selling you the boxes that allow you to
fake out the
Telephone service so you could get free long distance. That was Steve Jobs is like that was like their first little thing
Yeah, before Apple. Yeah. Yeah
That's wild. But anyway, what I was trying to say was that when you started making the when you met shoulder surfer
The money started rolling. Yeah, did you meet this dude shoulders on the forums? Yeah, he's a Russian. I don't know
Never met him in real life. No, you don't know who what any of these people are
I mean, I dealt with one dude for like two and a half years and I thought he was like this. I
In my mind, I thought he was like this nerdy fucking white dude turns out he was like this Jamaican fucking black dude from Canada
Whoa, yeah, and that we were I was doing fraud with back and forth and I got yeah
Is you actually mean in person? Oh, no, but I ended up talking to him on the phone one day and like just through conversation
We kind of figured out I kind of figured out like, you know, yeah his ethnic ethnicity
That's so funny and deal with somebody for so long without meeting them
Yeah, you have just no idea because I'm dealing with emails and screen names. Yeah, you know, so everything's emails and everything's anonymous
Yeah, you know, and then when you build a rapport you deal with somebody for years
Then you might get a phone call from them, you know, you might talk on the phone with them to you know, try and
Organize something or do whatever you guys are doing
Are you paying? Are you transacting everything in like with Bitcoin or are you at this time? I was using something called
WMZ, which is called Web monies. I think the FBI shut it down and there was something else called Liberty Reserve
LRZ and this is all this is this was
pre Bitcoin
So then and then after when Bitcoin came along
Not too many people were hip to Bitcoin and Bitcoin wasn't as easily accessible as it is today
Like I can just open my Robin Hood app and buy Bitcoin and sell Bitcoin like you fucking couldn't do that back in the day
Like you had to go find somebody to cash your Bitcoin out and then there was like all these sketchy
Like online Russian services you had to go through to buy Bitcoin like it just wasn't like it is now
So yeah, so a lot of it most of it was Western Union
At the end of the day it was Western Union really was like was the bulk of of them of the currency exchange I was getting
Yeah, so
How did this shoulder surfer dude change change everything you were doing and change your business?
He emailed me one day
You asked me to send him 2,000 cards
on front
Which is outrageous. What's that by the way 200 grand? Yeah, something like no. Well, yeah 2,000 car
Yeah, it was something real ridiculous. It was just real ridiculous and I was just like and he kind of kind of put it out
There he's like listen, I got this guy. He didn't tell me any days like I got this guy. He's trying to put something together
He's like can you send me X amount of cars? I remember how I think it was about 2,000 cars or something
He's like I need he's like this is what I need and he gave me a laundry list
And and he the dude's credible like I know who he is. I know he makes money
I know I know people personally that I've dealt with that. He's made money in the past which is Milmo man
That's that's why I was getting the Milmo man
I was only saying Milmo man Milmo man basically introduced him to shoulder surfer and that's when it kind of takes off
Yeah, okay, so I was like I'm like what do I got to lose? I mean it
It doesn't really cost me anything to make these cards like it. There's no overhead. Right on this. I mean I could order
Five you own the machines now. Yeah, I own everything
I mean by the way, how much did these machines cost you the good one was about five grand, okay?
I was a Fargo HDP five thousand so you just have these big bad-ass printers in your house. Yeah, yeah
Yeah, I had a why I had a one bedroom was just all it was all just the print shop
Yeah, I was just a print shop and then my my my my my wife I was with at the time
We weren't married, but my girlfriend I was with at the time. We had our son Nicholas
He was a baby and I would have him in the room with me while I'm printing all these fucking credit cards
And like all the ones that would come out fucked up
I would leave me the pile on the floor and he'd just be sitting in the middle of the floor playing with all these fucking
You know what I mean all these half printed fucking credit cards and shit. It's like oh my gosh. It's fucking whoa
Yeah, I find them all over the house because he'd run off with them
You know what I mean? I find I find credit cards in the fucking in the couch every bed
Sweet yeah, yeah, yeah, so he'd stash credit cards all over the house
And I'd have to find fucking shred them
little shit
Your kids show up to daycare with credit cards
Milmo man mil man
200,000
Shoulder surfer shoulder surfer 2,000 cards roughly. I don't remember what the exact number was. I think it was around about there
Okay, it was about there and um so that you were you were doing really good after that after that
Whoever he plugged me in with that was it. I was there
I was I was I didn't sell to anybody else after that. I only sold to him
I didn't have to deal with anybody else like I just I pretty much just ignored
Everybody else and I only dealt with him because he was doing I
think like a
Hundred orders a month. I think after it got like really big
Yeah, I think he was doing what I think about a hundred orders a month after
his fourth order
It was every other day. He wanted it. He wanted a hundred cars
Yeah, every two or three days you were physically doing all this. Yeah everything myself. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, I had no code defendants
I had nobody in on it with me. I had nobody, you know, it was just me. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it was just me
What about what about security? What about the like you remember you were going you were said you were going through these different security
the socket servers or and
Well, you're just talking about the VPN and the socks proxy right and all that shit like that
Yeah, just to hide my anonymity online. Yeah, like how did that? How did this secret?
So how does this secret service we once they got involved?
They knew what us Plastica was and they come came looking for you. How do they not track you down?
Because they tracked me down in a second if I fucking yeah
I mean, I wasn't dumb I wasn't using my home IP address to do any of this shit, right?
You know, that's just ignoramus, but how does that work? I'm saying you go to
Yeah, you download what's called a virtual private network of VPN. It's usually a service provider that
Hosts your host like an IP address wherever you want and then you've got something like a sock proxy three and four which
You know just jump your they plug your IP address into two different servers and it makes it a little bit harder for
What you're talking about this at that time in the 2000 like the early 2000 early 2000 that is like advanced
Yeah, yeah, oh imagine him telling me all this in prison. I'm gonna fucking have a clue what any of this this is at all
So there's something called a bin number
Which is called a bank identification number and the first six digits of any credit card or or
Any credit card or any debit card will tell you what bank issued it
So when you get these dumps in you you I had a directory where I could look up the bin and are we recording?
Yeah, we never stop recording. Okay. Yeah, so the bin number the first six digits of a card tells you what bank issues that card now
After a while after just doing it. It's hit or miss, but then you kind of figure out which bins work
Good in what areas because that's what it really comes down to at the end of the day
It boils down to what region the cards what regions the bins come from and what regions the bins are being used in
You know what I mean because now they saw it all gets flagged automatically like they've got software now
And that's just automatically, you know flags like say I'm from my my my it's all done by zip code now
Like say my mines eight five nine three two is my zip code and it's being used in eight five nine three six or something
It's way outside of your zip code the bank will automatically decline your shit and shut it down
You know, I mean then you got to call a banker or whatever so right, you know
But yeah, you figure out which bins work and it's it's just luck. It's it's either luck or
You know
So what were you thought we're just we're just talking about the VPNs and you're using VPNs
Sure
Yeah, VPNs and I was using a socks proxy on top of the VPN
And you think those those proxies and the VPNs you were using do you think that's the reason why you were able to stay out of
Trouble for so long. Yeah, I mean I flew under the radar for well not one that I don't think it was only that it was because
Because you seem like you were pretty like I was crazy
You didn't I mean you seemed like you were just kind of like a little bit reckless
You didn't seem like the kind of guy who would be actively
Using VP, you know, you using all this high-tech shit to stay under the radar and make sure and cross all your T's and dot
I dot all your eyes
Yeah, you sound like you were a little bit reckless to my brother
Is really the one that got me to be like, you know what always be paranoid. He told me always be paranoid
He's like always have a contingency plan always. Hey always be paranoid and always act as if you're being watched
You know what I mean?
And he's the one that kind of taught me about my digital of your digital footprint and
That's how I learned about IP addresses and you know what I mean ISPs and
DSNs and all that shit like I had no clue. I was clueless before you know and fraud is what really like
Got me into learning about all the IT. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they were both carting
I mean his brother's been caught his brother's been fucking chased his brother was on the run
My brother is as an absolute genius. Yes. Yeah, like I know I'm smart
But there's a difference
There's there's smart
Like I'm able to figure shit out and I'm able to watch somebody do something and I can repeat it fast and quick like I'm fast learner
my brother is
Comes up with the original he just comes up with the original ideas
Innovator. He's the innovator. He just thinks outside of the box
He's just got this brilliance about him that allows him to just to come up with these ideas that you would never even
The angle that you would just never think of would be the first thing that he thinks of is this is the is the
Yeah, it's his brilliance. Yeah, so we wrote the outline. I wrote the whole outline
After I wrote the outline I started writing the whole book
He got out and I wrote the whole book just with emails
Emails between me me and John and phone calls and then of course he disappeared which likes with the end of the book
He disappears. I went back to prison. But what happened is this
What I was gonna say was when I put up
When I did the I put I put up the I had a website while I was still in prison and I put up the the story
So I actually put up his story on my website just prior to getting out of prison
Maybe a year or two in or a year or two before I got out
I put up the story and I had like photos and stuff on it. I had his brother's mug shot on it
His brother contacted me and was like, hey
You know, you know
What's your brother's name Christopher? Yeah, Christopher. Yeah, this is you know Chris, but Chris Boziak. I'm John's
John's brother
When people run my name your story comes up and it's causing me major fucking problems
I need you to remove my story and or remove my my name and I went so of course
I'm emailing him back and we're going through somebody by the way, so I can't email him really directly
I'm actually emailing him through this chick named joy that was helping me. So I email I shoot one to her
She shoots one back. I should I didn't know that either. Yeah, I didn't know that either
We're going back and forth and he starts saying look. I need you to remove this my name from it. I went
okay, well, I
Said okay, I that would make I have to go through rewrite the whole thing have joy
I got a pay to have this done joey's not, you know people this costs money and time and so well
What are you going to do for me? He's like, what do you mean? I well, I need some pictures, you know, your brother's disappeared
I said, I don't know where he is
I'm writing letters the freedom of information act. I'm trying to figure out where he is
I'm and I end up saying I need I need some photos some childhood photos some this and I started asking him questions
He's like what he goes well, I got those photos, but that would require me to deal with my mother, which I'm unwilling to do
He didn't want to go there. He said I had to go to your mom's he had to go in the basement
He had to dig out the whatever you dig out the files or he was yeah, I don't want to have to deal with her
I don't want to have to explain the whole situation. I don't want to do do that
And I went okay. Well, then I'm not taking your name off the thing
Well, it's causing me major problems. I said, well, bro
There's multiple articles out there on you being arrested for credit card fraud
So don't tell me that my story is upsetting is causing you problems when there's multiple you've got
Multiple arrests you've been imprisoned in multiple multiple states
You've got multiple articles about you being arrested for credit card fraud
So my story is not affecting you the problem is my story
Tells the entire cohesive story as opposed to a random article here and there and I'm sure he didn't like the end
My I had the photograph photographs public records. So we go back and forth back and forth
And he basically was unwilling to do anything other than to say
Take this down. No, I'm not gonna fucking take it down. I'll change it. I'll alter it. I'll use a different name, but
Give me something make it worth my while in some way. He wouldn't do it
So I so anyway, that's why when you mention your brother, I just I just remember thinking
Yeah, it's right up until this point me my brother had been pretty tight. Where's your brother now?
I believe he's in texas who lives in texas. Okay, and he don't you don't talk to him
No, this up until this point me my brother had been really close like we grew up together
you know, obviously
and
You know when I was in prison
He was like the only one that was there for me sending me money and like taking care of me and shit
And now you won't even speak to me
Why won't he speak to you?
Obviously he's pretty upset about the
Him me involving him in this whole the book and and all that in which I get it, dude
I get it. You know what I mean? I get it, you know, you're trying to live the straight and narrow and you're trying to
And I believe I don't think he even told his wife doesn't even know
I don't think she really knew like everything
You know what I mean?
Like I kind of think he may have might have minimized or whatever when he was you know
Explaining everything to his wife and I kind of just peeled open a whole fucking can of worms
You know, I mean I get it and I'm not even like I'm kind of hurt by it
But at the same time, dude, I get it we're adults and
you know
You guys got to live his life. So so if your brother was the genius and your brother was the innovator behind all this stuff
Why did so did you rise higher in the ranks than he did?
And did you accomplish more make more than he did? I was he you know for him. It was never about that
He wasn't like I I
He was just fucking around with it
As a joke
Cardi and I know that's you whatever, but he was just fucking around
I got fucking obsessed with it and I made it
You know what I mean my 24 7365
You know what I'm saying? So it was never really about like I you know went further than him or whatever because once he got
Once he got busted. Um, once me and him got chased out of a fucking wal-mart for trying to get a laptop
I got away. He got caught
Really and I feel that I feel fucking horrible about it because I woke him up explain that explain
Explain that I'm laughing about it. I'll eat you feel horrible and I'm thinking
I've taken because this is what started like my brother's downward trajectory. Okay, you know, and I mean it was like
First of all, he was because he was living with me in coral springs
And I remember waking him up this day. I remember this day distinctly
I woke him up out of a dead fucking sleep to go commit credit card fraud
Because I wanted to go out and and steal, you know, so I wake him up
I make him go to wal-mart with me to fucking card a laptop because I think I think because he he had the id for the card
So, you know, he had to be the one to do it. You know what I mean? So
We get there we get back there. We get the laptop we get to the counter
The dude looks at the card swipes it looks at the id picks up the phone. We got a code red back here at electronics
I immediately knew what fucking time it was. So I kind of just do an about face and I slowly start walking towards the front door
I look back my brother's still standing at the counter and I'm thinking in my head
I'm like, man, just fucking walk away. Walk away. Walk away. So I get to the front door the automatic doors in wal-mart
They slide open here comes my brother just blowing past me with two dudes chasing him just a fucking full out and
The the look of sheer fucking terror on his face as he was going through them fucking doors in wal-mart
And the two fucking dudes are chasing them
I'll never forget the look in that kid's face and that's when it hit me in my stomach
I was like, I fucked up
And then one dude tries to grab my shirt
I luckily I I did some kind of spin move and slapped his hand away and booked it out of the parking lot
I got away and I went and hid in the fucking woods and he went to jail got arrested, you know
Yeah, I felt bad
Apparently his one of his flip-flaps fucking blew out on him halfway across the parking lot and they got his ass, you know
I mean
So yeah, and I felt so horrible for this, you know, but I stayed up all night. I didn't sleep, you know tracking him
Seeing what jail he was going to I watched him go from
City to county and then I was on it, you know what I mean? I was I didn't sleep the whole night
I was as soon as the fucking bill bondsman is opened in the morning. I got him a bill bondsman
He called me after his first quarter appearance. He's like, oh, I got a bond bubble. I was like, listen
I already got a bondsman on the way up there to get you, you know, I mean just sit tight and I bonded him out
I did the right thing and then
Like two or three weeks later the bail bondsman calls me
And he's like, oh, you can come pick up your money. They drop they drop the charges or some shit
Yeah, something weird happened in the court. I don't know if it was a clerical error or what happened
But they just they weren't they just weren't going to prosecute it or whatever. So I got my bond money back
So we're thinking it's all good. My brother's like, oh, I skated on that one. I was like, yeah, you got lucky
well about a
Two or three weeks later
We get a knock in the door early in the morning and it was one of those
So I knew it was the police because the police only fucking knocked one way at fucking seven o'clock in the morning
You know, I mean nobody else is beating on my door like that. So I opened up the doors coral springs police
There, you know, he's it's chris for boziak here and he was in the room sleep
But he had he had his he had his room door closed
And I was like, no, he's not here. He's uh, he's in the cop
Well, he said where where is he? I was like, uh, he went to michigan
He took off and went to michigan yesterday
And the cops like, uh, do you have any idea? So I went and got my idea gave it to him
So he can make sure that I wasn't christopher and he said, um
Oh, well, well good thing. He's he did take off because he's got a warrant out for his arrest
And I was like, and I told the cop I was like, I got my bond money back from that. He's like, yeah
Well, uh, somebody picked up the the case and they're he hit so he gets to get a warrant out for his arrest
So I went and woke him up like dude, you know, the fucking police were just here looking for you
He was like, oh man, that was almost my freedom
And uh, he took off that night and went to michigan
And uh, he got caught up in michigan like two weeks later at a target
And that's when the whole thing unfolded. So then he
He got he got jailed up there
And then he had to get extradited back down to florida and the whole thing
So after that whole thing happened with him, he was he was done
Like that was the end of it for him like once he got caught
You know, I mean core springs and went to michigan and went through that whole fucking shit
I think after that he was done like he was like, you know what? I'm gonna go to college. I'm gonna get a degree
I'm gonna, you know, do what I gotta do
So he was out of the life of crime and pretty much away from me
At that time like after that we went our separate ways like he took off and you know went and did his thing and then I
I made carding my life after that. Oh, yeah
Did you see the wikipedia page on him?
My wikipedia page. Yeah, there's a wikipedia. I don't think I did. Yeah. Yeah, I'll show I'll send it to you
Send it we can pull up and show it. I'm doing big things. I got my wikipedia page. That's pretty
Did you did you did you did you make it? This is the mastermind. This is my this is my my my pr
This is my pr right here. This is my publicist. Who's setting up?
um, no, uh, I mean wikipedia
What do you mean wikipedia is wikipedia is user is is
Listen, you gotta go through the whole process you gotta go through like it has to get verified and they got you gotta
Send in documents and they gotta verify and yeah, they gotta make sure it's legit
I'm trying to get that blue check on instagram right now
Then i'm really fucking doing things
So after you got your brother you and your brother split ways
What
What did you do like what use did you like shift it shifted into a higher gear and started going to high gear?
Yeah, I made it my business my I just every day I wake up and that's all I thought about and this is the point where you're making like
Getting these 200,000 orders every week from this point. I'm not really doing shit
When we when me and my brother separated I really wasn't doing much at this time
Like I was making money. Yeah, and I was making cards and I was doing all right
But my my operation was still pretty low
Okay, and then me and chris went our separate ways and that's when I was like, okay
I need to get better equipment. I need to figure out, you know
And you had all the vpns you were staying out of the radar. Yeah, you're being extremely smart
About not getting caught
Yeah, um
At what point did you hit a level to where you're like starting to get worried?
When I started doing a hundred orders a month
I was gonna say a secret service showed up. Well, I mean that was quite a few times
I you know, I would go to grab a packet. I'd be at my my my dropbox store to go pick up a package and
I somehow would you they would be in there looking for me or something
I would be like coming in or going out and I'd be like
And then another time I was at um, I think I was at a like a borders bookstore or something like that
Using their vpn and one of my vpns had failed on me
Like I thought I was being protected and I wasn't
And so I think you would be using public wi-fi. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah public wi-fi with a vpn
What a socks, you know, I mean with a and I was using russian proxies
Like I was doing russian sites where they would just list all these proxies
And this is back in the day
So you would have to you would have to get all these proxies and then you'd have to run them through a checker one by one
To make sure if they see if they were valid because there was only like there's only certain windows
That these these vpns that these proxies were valid for and then they would be no longer valid because they the ip addresses
With cycle and everything would get changed, you know, so it was like I had to go through and you know use all the these checkers and
Manually and put the the the ip edge. So yeah, my vpn ended up failing on me
And I didn't know it and I was think I was at a borders books and this is the borders books
I kept using and this is my mistake. I just got comfortable. You know, I kept going to the same place
I mean I did these big comfy chairs and I had my own little corner back away from everybody
You know what I mean? This is my fucking this is my fraud cornerism. This is my this is what I do. I go here
I sit I like that. It's my little fraud corner. So this is this is my spot. Yeah
VPN failed on me
And yeah, they just got hip to me and I they tried to come to borders
I think they walked into borders one day the same
Was it secret service agent secret service? Yeah, the same secret service agent that I had seen
At my drop box place, you know, he was secret service. Well, you can always tell how
They got the they got the high and tight
They wear the fucking uh, the cargo they wear the cargo pants the tan cargo pants with the tucked in polo with the tucked in polo with the fucking, uh
Uh, the bed uh, uh
What do they call those though?
A lanyard the lanyard right the lanyard with the everyone
If you google google image fucking what they all look the same really they all look the same. Yeah, what's on a lanyard?
What's hanging off the lanyard the secret service badge
They wear the badge like I'm like tuck it in
But they pull it out when you know what I mean and and they have it ready for you
Yeah, exactly. I mean I can I can smell polo. I can see polis in my all the way. You can always tell when somebody's polis
Yeah, yeah, especially when you're when you're doing fraud and you and that's what you're watching for were you like
Did you I didn't know he was secret service. Okay. You didn't know he was obviously I didn't know you secret service until
I seen him come into borders because the only people that got pulled with IP addresses and in that kind of that kind of
Organization to be on you like that would be secret service because fb
It will fbi in secret service, but fbi doesn't deal with that kinds of things
Okay, secret service secret service that they deal with all financial and you saw all counterfeiting looking dude who looked like a cop
And what did you like he carried himself like the cop? He was dressed like a cop
He I didn't so when I was you super suspicious, right? So I had went to my my
I had went to my um, I had something called like an hq
So I don't know if you're familiar with that. It's uh, it's like a virtual office where you can make they they can do
Employment verification. You can have packages shipped there. They could you know do mail they answer phones for you
So I had one of those um
And I was running, you know packages out of there or whatever like that
So I had seen I was going to pick up a package one day and I uh, I had seen
I was I think it was coming out of an elevator and I'd seen those they had walking into the
To the office the the police I'm like, man, this something just hit me in the gut and something just did not feel right at all
At all and there's courier guys
There's couriers that run in and out of the building the to pick up packages or whatever like that
So I paid one of the couriers to go and grab my packages for me at my hq
Okay, and I went and sat in the parking lot
So when when my courier comes out with my packages sure enough
The bobo looking motherfucker and then the dude that was with him grab him
No, you know
And that's when I knew right then and there that that something was wrong
But I didn't know it was my vpn
You know what I mean? I thought it was I thought that they maybe it was just I didn't I didn't know how or why
Sorry at that point in time, you know, there's a um
I was just thinking about uh, I want you to see the at the for you
That what's your name has to get
That that what's your name so so there's a
Possibly let's just say doc the doc. Yeah, I'm working on a little something right now. Yeah
I got a little something cooking maybe yeah doc. There's a documentary, right? There's a documentary producer
That is going through the whole thing and she just got
freedom of information of information act like I got a bunch of stuff
But keep in mind
I can only get so much and she's like a um, you know, she's a investigative journalist, right?
So she just got like a fucking ton of documents
In and like I've been talking to her and she sent me a thing the other day. She's like they just mailed them to me
They said it was too big to fucking email or something and we were talking about that earlier
He was like that doesn't even make sense
But they had to maybe they're sending it to her on a thumbnail or so thumb drive or something
I don't know but they're mailing and I was just wondering like I wonder what's gonna come up
What's gonna come up? It's gonna be interesting because like I got a ton of documents, right?
Like I got a ton of stuff that was showed up as I was ordering the documents that are showing up verifying
This is true. This is true. I'm dying to know and I sent it to her. She was like, that's this is amazing
I'm wondering what additional stuff she came up with
Do you see what I'm saying like I get a movie about to you John a documentary. Well, I hope so. Yeah, I hope so
Yeah, well, they got to sell it first. Yeah, they're going like Netflix or somebody
They already make they were this I was gonna ask you that Mike is there already a movie made about you?
We're working on I'm trying to get a deal made the chick already
They make documentaries for Netflix. They actually are making one right now for Netflix. I think they just sold something in Netflix
Yeah, well then I yeah for sure they sold it because they were they're down here
Um
What shooting it is it here? You know what's funny? She told me Sarasota, but then she wants to meet you and
Anyway, she's in florida. They're in florida right now and they're supposed to meet with him
Um, but I was just wondering about that when you said that I thought
Freedom of information
It's interesting to see because you don't know what's going on behind the scenes
Like I don't know how they knew what or when or when to be where when
Obviously, you know, because I'm not I'm not on their team
Right, so when you get all the freedom of information act shit, it's all it's all in there
Like all the reports all the documents everything's in there
Yeah, every every interaction every interaction any piece of paper that's attached to my name that has anything to do with any of these
Cases there's there's paperwork on and all of that can be released through freedom of information. Keep in mind. I could get everything
First of all, he was gone. He left before way before me
Yeah, how many years you said it today you said it's been five years. It's been five years since I've seen you
But when but you left I got out in 2015. Oh, yeah, fuck. I got in 2019
Yeah, so yeah, so but I'm saying I was just thinking like it was it's funny all the different things that like when his brother's
Police report when his brother got arrested like I have the whole police report
So I know like he used the car. You know why his brother got caught
Why when he went up he so he goes back he goes to back up to michigan and starts carding again
Who does his brother his brother remember he went on the run he went but he starts carding again in michigan
He got caught got released
In florida and then goes back up there starts carding again
And then when he was carding he uses a card
So he uses a card by something like fucking for like he ran it up for four or five grand
I think I actually have was it that much. Yeah, I actually have the
What not not just at target it was over the quick throughout the day the same card. Yeah, same card
It was because I actually have from the bank
Where it's like whatever
3,900 or 4,200 whatever around four grand he ran up this card. Well, here's the funny thing
So the card
So he gets the stuff and he leaves
Well, the woman gets notified by the by the bank. Yeah, saying hey your car's been run up or whatever
She then she goes, okay. Well. Oh gosh, this is all around here. This target is right up the street
She calls the target and they're like, yeah, I know. Oh, okay. Yeah, and she's like, okay. Well
She talks to them and they're like, yeah, there's nothing we can do. She called they call the police. They go. Yeah, just fill out the police report
She goes, no, no, it's right down the street. They have surveillance cameras
I want you to go down there and look at the she's those such a fucking stink. She makes the police do their job
It was a Karen. They actually it was definitely a Karen. They actually get up. They drive down there
They get they look on the surveillance photos
They actually get the name because his brother used like a his brother used his own ID with the the strip
And they actually get his brother's ID
They look in the phone book
Find out where he lives go there open the door. It's fucking swag everywhere
They open the door and fucking it's him. He the cop just saw him on the
Just swag, you know stolen merchant or whatever. It's all it's an older term. I've never heard. It's a boomer term
I know it's swag swag. It's a boomer term
Not in that context
So it's it's basically it. Oh, there's all these places filled with fucking with uh with stolen stuff or whatever
Hi, I was a fucking gift card. Yeah, just and he rests him right there
But I mean it was the victim wasn't willing to just
Roll over and go, okay. She was like, oh no. No, she put up a stink
You go down there. You look on the surveillance floor and that's the article
There's a huge article that was written up about his brother
You know talking about they make it sound like it's like a big deal and stuff. It's like
Yeah, the
Five was four or five grand, but so anyway, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's when your brother first got busted
Right. No second time that was after me and him got ran on a Walmart
Yeah, but I had that police report
Like I had the police board of the interviews of the screenshots of the cards of the ever all everything
So I mean that's the kind of stuff that you know, I kept getting in
And then like the time you almost got caught
um
buying a gun in the uh
Like he knew there's there were I was getting documents in the stories that he never even called me
I heard Tampa. Yeah, he he didn't even tell me like literally I'm reading this
Hillsborough County Sheriff's report and I'm reading the report going. What the fuck is this?
Yeah, I had a I had a warrant out for my arrest a federal warrant out for my arrest
And I didn't know and I'm at a gun store and I'm trying to buy I'm trying to purchase a fucking firearm
And they they're doing the background check on me. The police are on their way up there to arrest me
And I just finally get sick of fucking waiting around. I'm like, you know what I'm over it and I leave
And I
10 minutes after I leave five minutes after I leave the sheriff show up to arrest me. Yeah. Yeah, and they call him. Yeah
Let you understand. I was in prison when I got this report
I completely forgot about this whole this whole thing and I was on the phone calling and I'm like, hey, bro
I got a report in and he's like, oh, yeah
Yeah, yeah, they what what you know, I left they wouldn't give me the thing and the
And I was wondering why they were acting weird
After after they like after I gave him the information
I ran my information the dude was acting fucking kind of strange behind the counter
Because I guess he knew the police were coming to arrest me
You know what I mean? So that I so something just didn't sit right now. I looked at my wife and I was like, no
We gotta get the fuck out of here. You know something's fucking something weird
The cop even wrote up the phone call when he called him. He's like, hey, is this John Bose?
Yeah, he's nah, man. My name is Jay or whatever you said. He's like my name's tom or whatever
Right. Yeah, he's like now you got the wrong number wrong number, but this isn't he hangs up on him
But the cop writes up the whole thing and so I tell him that I'm like, you never told me that story. He's like, yeah
I remember that's right
I mean, there was all these things that were we were talking about this earlier. I was like in years later when I got busted
I got I got arrested. I got I was in Hillsborough county jail
And but I was a federal I was on a federal hold so federal inmates don't get held at Hillsborough
They get shipped out to Pinellas and they hold all the federal inmates at uh at Pinellas. Well, they did then
I mean, they had a contract. I'm not sure if they do anymore, but
um
The the the dude who copped the came to pick me up from Hillsborough to transfer me from Pinellas was the same one
That came to arrest me at the gun shop
And he's like, you know, I was I I got there 10 minutes after you left. I was coming to arrest you
And that's what he told me. Yeah, the sheriff's deputy got there first. Yeah, that's the report. I got okay
But he's saying that the
Secret service aid they also showed I think he was yeah, he was like u.s. Marshall or something like that or something
Yeah, I don't remember who was transfer me, but he was like I was the one that came those came to arrest you
But I barely I just barely missed you and he's like I went to whatever address you put on your
On the application I filled out for the
Background checkered like the gun form or whatever and he's like, yeah, it was just like a vacant apartment or something
And I was like, yeah, it's I have a habit of not ever putting where I live or
Any proper information on anything and it's it's it's hurting me now because
now I'm like a legitimate like citizen of
You know in society and I'm trying to like function properly and it's like I've got all these habits
Or I just don't put down wrong phone numbers for shit. I don't ever give my address out where I live
I don't have my my driver's license registered to the address my physical home address
I don't put any utilities in my name. I just
Yeah, I'm used to living life on the lamp, you know used to fucking always having warrants or
You know that paranoid life somebody chasing me for child support or some shit. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah
I got a couple of those
I've been ducking those for a while
Oh
So, yeah, you know and
Those habits now are are really they're hard for me to to get out of
How long has it been since you got out?
Five years five years. Yeah, I've been out five years
All right, so at what point at some point
between from when you first started noticing the secret service agents
Hovering around you you figured out who they were they were getting close. They're getting close
So now you must be getting like way more paranoid because these fucking guys are on you
Like they know who you are like they're trying to find they know what's going on online
They know how to fucking they know that the tech the technology of the vpns and
And whatever they know what you're doing on the forums the buying and selling of stuff. Yeah
I think at this point they knew who I was and what I was doing. They just didn't know who I was
They didn't know you look like they didn't know like yeah, they didn't know my they didn't know who I was right
But you how many did you have a bunch of fake identities? Oh, yeah
I mean I could print I could print driver's licenses right and I had access to hundreds of thousands of people's information
At any given point in time I could buy
I mean I had contacts I could I could call somebody like listen. I need 500
First name last name burst. I brought
I'm sorry first name last name date of birth and social security number
So mat cox you were basically like the beta version of john boziak
Matt cox was the he's the analog version analog
Matt cox was doing everything analog. He was actually going to homeless people and
Acting like he had a survey and having them, you know, write their information down. You know, I mean on the ground
I was like the dial-up. I was like he's the dial-up version
Yeah, yeah boots on the ground
Wow
That's fucking yeah, I'm going in them. I'm actually going in the bank filling out paperwork. Yeah getting it out in cash
He's filling it out online. He's having it transferred here
So at any given time I could get I could be anybody I wanted to be because I could just make the driver's license
And even if I didn't I know how to steal identities
So I could just go to a I could you know get I can get anybody's birth certificate
All I need is your first name your date of birth and your social security number
I can get your background check. I can pull your credit file
Once I do those two things I can get your birth certificate
Once I get your birth certificate
I can go straight to the dmv and I can get a driver's license
In your name with your birth certificate
So now I'm I'm I'm whoever I want to be right and I in and that's you know, that's relatively easy. That's peanuts
Does he know about what you what you had to go through to get people's identities? Oh, yeah
Yeah, and you know what getting homeless people social security numbers. He loves to do this. He loves
What do you think about what do you think about what he was doing?
Because he was going finding homeless people saying that he needed to fill out
They needed to fill out surveys to get their social security numbers like
Matt Matt's a megalomaniac
That's what enabled Matt to do the things that he did
Plain and simple. He's a narcissistic megalomaniac that he just you know
You know
That little governor that people have inside of him that tells them not to do certain things
Or not to talk to people a certain way. Matt doesn't have that. Yeah, he doesn't have that governor
He doesn't have that filter. I'm all better now though. No, I mean, but what do you think about like?
So that's the actual process that he had to go through. I wouldn't to steal people's identities. I couldn't
I would never do that if that's what I had to do
It seems like so much work compared to what you were kidding me. There's no way. There's no way
I wouldn't there's no way I would never in a million years ever do something like that
I would break it. I would you know do a commercial burglary and get into a fucking file system or something like that before
I even thought to do something like that. I have to do a survey
You just walk around the pad. You just hey, excuse me. I'm taking you know, you're I'm walking through the park
And you get $20 bill. You say I got I'm doing surveys. I give you $20
I we're trying to figure out where we want to put the next uh, we say american cross
No, right next to how well how to go home. Just homo. You can say homeless facility, but basically salvation army
Worthless salvation army. I had a badge and I asked myself how many people actually gave you the real information
He said all of them almost I literally I'll bet you I'll bet you maybe maybe one or two people gave me something bad
Almost never and even then like I had one guy who gave me he his his
His uh date of birth. He gave me was off like he switched like he thought he was gonna freak
He was gonna fool me. I'm gonna change my date of birth
It doesn't matter when we pulled the credit the real date of birth showed up
But that's a super inefficient way of stealing somebody's identity. Well, it's actually hard to what you were doing
Well, it's actually smart because these people are fucking homeless junkie drug addicts. Yeah, they're not gonna show up
It was creative. Let's say let's show up and say hey
They're never gonna show up to court
They're not gonna know if somebody's doing anything with their name or anything like that because they're they're fucking crazy and homeless
Yeah, the bank's not gonna call them and say hey somebody's using your credit card
It's more work and it's less efficient than what I was doing. I mean, obviously my work more money though
I'm borrowing a million dollars in this guy's different scam. Yeah completely. You know, I was when I stole people's identities
I wasn't
You doing it to for any kind of financial gain like I wasn't using their name to
Build a credit report or take loans out or go into a bank or anything like that
Right. I was just using it so that
And when I went to go do my dirt that people didn't know who I was like say I was going to open a ups store box at a ups store
That's when I would make an identity or I was going to do like an hq
You know like the virtual office or whatever you're just going to cover your tracks. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
What about what about eventually of what I mean, you know, I don't know if
I mean, I don't know if you want me to help you along here. Oh, of course. Yes
So eventually you end up you're and you were went to rock hill
Rock Hill, South Carolina. Yeah, where you get
pinched, right? So
That fucking backwater hick-ass town. I should have never fucking where was unbelievable. Rock Hill, South Carolina
Yes, sir. Yeah, sir
Them fucking rednecks. Why were you there unbelievable the the girl I was with at the time. That's where she was from
She's from South Carolina her family's from there
And a little southern bell. Yeah, and for whatever reason we decided to leave Florida and take my son and go
To South Carolina. I'm like, listen, I can do what I do anywhere. Right. You know what I mean
So, you know, we get up there and that that was the nail in the coffin
Even that that was the nail in the coffin. That's what sent me to prison was was eventually was my decision. Yeah
That was it
So how did that play out?
Right, so
When I when you when you send out when I send out packages
I just go to into a ups store and I because I pre-print my labels
So I just go into a ups store and I hand it to him to give him $5 and they scan it and they send it in the outgoing mail
And it goes out
You know, which is cool because in south florida, there's 10,000 fucking ups stores
I mean you literally put in your gps and you get all day long
Yeah, they're everywhere
So I never have to go to the same one twice and I could do this for months and months and months and keep rotating
Well, where I was there was two
UPS stores and that was it
So I had to go to the same ups store to send out my packages when I was sending them out the same ups store the same ups
Or so eventually the old man
That was running the ups store. I didn't know at this time that they're all franchises. I mean, I know that I knew that
I didn't know that so the the old man that worked at the ups store was the owner
Of the ups store and I was going there, you know, three four times a week sending shit out and they're going all over the world
My shit's going to you know, europe south america
the documentary
Caitlyn tracked him down
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, she's actually already tried this guy. This chick is thorough. Oh, she don't fuck around. She listen
She lives here in florida. No, she's from new york. Yeah, she just happens to be here
But I'm saying yeah, I just want to make sure you got her on this fucking show. She's listen go she worked for
Yeah, she worked for um
Time, you know, I don't know if she's specifically worked for them
But I know she she she has stuff published with like people magazine. No people. No, she worked. No. No, she did
She worked for people. Yeah until just reason she quit to co-starter own
She did her own thing. She did like five or ten years or something. Yeah, she was an investigative journalist
But I'm sorry. I mean, but I just thought it was amazing because that's somebody she was like, oh, no
No, I already tried to find out about you
From my story from my son. Yeah from Matt. Yeah, she was investigating uh Matt plug me in donovan donovan davis
And so she went through she was reading she was reading this stuff on my website
Well, no on the youtube channel and then on the youtube channel. She came across boziak story
Bent with them. So that was us. That's the first one I put up
So she came across the um the narration on my story has 26,000 views uh right now on youtube by the way
26 26,000 views on youtube by the way. So it's yeah, it's putting up real numbers. So
um, yeah, so on my on my uh
My channel. Mm-hmm. She saw it and she read it and she contacted me and she goes, okay
Who who's this guy?
And I was like, oh, it's this and she's like, okay. Well at the end of this story
He disappears and I went, oh, no, no, no, no. I said you could I said let you gotta you gotta get his book
I said there's a book you could he shows up. I explained he he did disappear
But then I said he had actually gotten arrested and then did some time it got out
I said I've contact and she was so you you're in contact with them. I was like, yeah
And she goes, oh, okay. She said don't can I get you so you can put me in contact with them
I said, yeah, I can get you his number and everything. Yeah, and she's like, okay, so
um
At that point you weren't
No, you weren't working for tesla then that you at the end of the book
I was living in la at this time. I'd moved from san francisco to la. Yeah, so I gave him her number
Because we talked when I was in the halfway house. So I still had his information
So I gave him his information. She contacted him. She came back to me. She said, will you be interviewed?
I said, yeah, I'll be interviewed and she says, well, do you have all the information on him?
I was like, yeah, what she was super stoked about it. She's like, this is great
This is an amazing documentary
Because you know, we didn't get into all the fucking times he got grabbed and handcuffed and we didn't get into all that
But how did you get busted in south carolina?
Right. Yeah, so pretty much the old man
Um, we just a nosey old fuck you couldn't you know what I mean?
So I dropped the package off one day and he opened it and went through it
I seen what I was sending out and then he called the postmaster general and then the postmaster general contacted the secret service
He he he also keep my he didn't he's walking in all tattooed up. This is a little town. Oh, you had the tattoos
Yeah, yeah, this is a little town in south carolina. He thought he was sipping drugs driving a nice Cadillac
Yeah, he thought he's sipping drugs. Tell me the story about when you decided to get all the tattoos
Didn't you have to you didn't you try to buy a Rolex or something and you got
Oh, yeah, you got locked in a closet or something
At the mall and then the closet security
You know like one of those little rooms and they and then you climbed through the ceiling to escape. Yeah. Yeah through drop sailing. Yeah, yeah
Um, the tattoos was that before or after you got the tattoos? Uh, I've always had tattoos. Oh really?
Yeah, I started getting tattooed when I was we're young
The rock star. Yeah rock star. That's that's over here. Oh, yeah. Yeah
That's that was like it's covered up now. It's covered up now. I can still see it though. I can see it
If you're looking for it, you can see it. Yeah. Um, what about was that? What is that? Is that the dollar bill thing or the
Illuminati brother
When did you get that fucker? Uh, I just did my whole head last year. Damn. Yeah, I just started going really hard
On the tattoo and but I've always had tattoos. Yeah, I've been I started getting tattooed extremely young
um
Probably 14 or 15
I think I got my first tattoo and then I did my first tattoo when I was like 16
Your own first tattoo. Yeah, you tattooed yourself or you tattooed somebody else. I tattooed somebody else
And then it was just like an obsession after that
Yeah, it's like tattooing and just like getting tattooed and doing tattoos and everything tattooing in prison. Yeah
I got doing people in prison. Yeah. Yeah
With a fucking needle. Oh, we were making tattoo machines in there, man out of fucking we had little motors
We were taking out of shavers and they're burning fucking ink and making their own
Making our own ink. Yeah. Yeah, I got into it, man. I mean, that's that's how I make all my money now
I'm full-time tattoo artist now. Yeah, I would walk by me to get a fucking cell in here
Walk by
They got lookouts and you know dudes sitting in the chair watching for the police
Yeah, yeah, so I just I've always been obsessed with tattooing
And you know ever since I was a kid because I grew up in a rough part of town
You know with you know, rough cats and everybody's always tattooed
I got the impression from the story that you just got the tattoos so you could look I started getting heavily tattooed later on
Because you thought you feared you'd go to prison and you wanted to look you wanted to have more tattoos
Yeah, that's part of it. I guess that's that's matt's
Matt's spin on matt's sofa psychiatry. I think
You had said fuck I knew eventually I'm gonna end up in prison
You had said that. Yeah, it was just like, you know, I I'm not I'm not a very big guy
You know what I mean? I've always been small and it's just like I wanted
It at first I wanted smaller then too. You're bigger now. You when we met you were
Even in prison. You were thin. You were way thinner. Yeah. Yeah
Probably had 135 145 pounds when I met you. What do you weigh now?
Uh 160
Oh, he was probably 135 when I'm at him 130 5 7 125 130 going into prison going to federal prison tiny tiny little dude. Yeah
So I was like, you know, I got to do something. You know, I better have face tats
No, I didn't have any of this when I went you did it. No, nothing at all after my head. Nothing. I think I had
Yeah, you had the sleeves and you had that definitely had the neck. You had the neck. No, no, I didn't have any of this
I just had the two sides just the sides. Yeah at the two sides and then I had I was sleeved on the sleeves
And then when I got out, I was like
I'm not fucking getting a nine to five. I'm not doing it. So it's either going to be tattooing or I'm going back to prison
Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah, so I just went ham
I went fucking ham and I just I went, you know, I went crazy. Yeah, but you know, it works for me
You know, it works for me and um, I make I make I make really good money right now tattooing, you know, that's awesome
Yeah, I have a friend who just got into it. He just started a practice thing in a tattoo place up in Tampa
She was a graphic designer to okay. Yeah, she just got designed. There's a lot of graphic designers
Yeah, Luke's wife. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And um, she just started apprenticing or yeah practicing. Yeah
I've been tattooing pretty solid for about 10 years. I think really yeah about 10 years solid
That's fucking cool. Yeah. Yeah. So now it's just like that's my bread and butter now
I mean, I get to wake up every single that the best life ever I get to wake up every day and do whatever I want to do
I get to wake up every day and just go to the gym and work out
And eat breakfast and hang out, you know, I mean and get on the computer and draw a little bit
And schedule a couple tattoos and then go fuck around with a girl over here. You know, I mean, it's just whatever I want to do
My day is mine. Yeah, you know what I mean? I'm not a fucking wage slave
You know, and I I'm lucky. I then I figured out a way out of it. Do you own your own shop?
Or what I'm working out of a private studio right now. Yeah, okay. So you like you like rent a space or whatever
Okay, well, he just moved to to Arizona. He just moved to Arizona from LA. I had to get the fuck out of LA, man
LA was everything closing down on from LA is an absolute fucking shit show. That's what I hear from everybody
They're killing cops out there. They're burning cop cars. They're fucking looting. They're riding. They're protesting. Everything's fucking shut down
I mean
It's fucking four dollars a gallon for gas
I was paying $2,100 a month to live in a fucking not even that nice of an apartment in anaheim
Fucking orange county. Why would you want to fucking live there, dude? It's unlivable. California is unlivable. It's just not
Homeless or done. It's insane. I've never well, you know that because we talked. Yeah, yeah, California is a
Democratic liberal fucking shit pool. Yeah, that's what it is. Fucking needles and homeless people shitting all over the streets
Yeah, and then you've got you've got these fucking
Multi-millionaires getting out of the Rolls Royce is stepping over three fucking homeless people to get into a restaurant to pay fucking
You know what I mean $200 $300 for a steak dinner and a $500 martini. It's the whole thing. It's just fucking absolute insanity
Absolute insanity in Florida. Yeah, and I lived in a sorry that never happened never happened
I lived in fucking san francisco for two and a half years. Isn't it worse there? It's worse. Yeah, san francisco is way worse than la
I mean, I mean they both have their own problems, but san francisco
In san francisco same thing downtown. I was in downtown la and I've been in downtown san francisco
Yeah, and san francisco downtown is worse. It's funny because there's so many beautiful parts of california, too
California's a beautiful state like California's a beautiful San Diego and la joya
I mean I lived in um
Like orange county like so when I lived in LA and then I moved to orange county
And I was living out by Huntington beach and Huntington beach is amazing. It's fucking amazing
You go out there you hang out and you know, I got the beach you got the restaurants. You got the shops everything's cool
You know what I mean, but then you got
LA's just like a fucking dumpster, dude
Yeah, it's it's a bummer dude. It's the tent cities just the homeless the homeless down there. It's just
Yeah, it's off the charts, man. You mean everybody's leaving
Literally every building you walk into you're accosted by a homeless person every gas station every 711 every place you go to
There's somebody literally covered in filth half naked screaming at nothing
And and and you think I'm you think I'm I'm I'm trying to be funny. I'm not that's that's a physical description of every fucking homeless person in Miami
Bro, you know what I mean, you know, uh, um soft white underbelly. Did you ever talk to him?
Yeah, he's coming on the podcast. Awesome. Love mark. He's coming down here. Mark's 60 something years old and looks amazing
Yeah, soft white underbelly dude. His channel is amazing. Oh, he's great. So you know where his
Okay skid row in downtown, uh, LA. Yeah
He's at the studio. He runs something. That's where his studio is
So when you when he interviews people you could I've I've watched the interviews, right? Can you hear crazy shit going on?
Oh, yeah, you can hear like sirens and I was watching all that's constant
And I was sitting there looking at because they're beautiful the interviews are beautiful
They're amazing the photography is phenomenal
And I'm watching and I hear the sirens and I go wow, that's neat that he kind of
He must he must put that in there
I got down there and did my thing and I was like, oh you didn't put this shit in here
It's pretty rough. This is this is 10 feet outside the door two homeless guys screaming at each other. This is
15 feet. There's a fucking police
He's got he's got an interview with this dude this black dude who had his half of his face blown off by a shotgun
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I watched that interview
There's a horrible. I watched that and the dude's like actually and he's homeless
He's homeless, but he's actually like got his shit together. He can actually he's coherent. He's lucid. He can talk
And he's like a good dude. Yeah, he's like a good dude
He's like, man, I always try and help people out and fucking, you know, I mean do right by people
Yeah, this and half is fucking
It's fucking insane. I still he's done multiple interviews with that guy
I think he's done one and then he did one a long time ago with him and then all of a sudden like years later
He's like did another one with him. Yeah, I may be wrong. I don't know. I'm just talking shit
I mean just the channel story. I don't know. He went to uh, he went where did he go to um
Somewhere in Tennessee where he interviewed this inbred family. Yeah, that's like one of his
I fucking just watched that. Well, that's the dude. Okay. I've been watching his videos all week long, man
You see me how many hits that thing got the one dude that just barks like a dog in the background barks and he's like
What happened to your brother? Where's your brother? It's all he does and you're like, oh my god
And you can tell the dude's like trying to communicate to him
He's understanding him
But he can only bark like a dog. That's it and then he goes he walks across the street and there's a fucking grave
They just buried
They buried his brother right across the street from the house like in a empty. Oh, yeah fucking field. Yeah
It was wild, man. Did you watch that one? Did you watch? Oh, you gotta take that one out. I watched a good one
I literally like turn it on for like 20 seconds. I went. Oh, I can't watch inbred family from fucking
Where were they at? Um, I think I thought it was somewhere in west somewhere. I thought it was in somewhere in Tennessee
Was it? Oh, it was Tennessee. I thought maybe not
I don't know Kentucky or Tennessee. It was Kentucky or Tennessee. That's maybe Appalachia be Kentucky. Yeah
One of the two. Well, I mean you want to
Wrap the you know the he got arrested in. Oh, sorry. We got on a tangent. Let's get back arrested. We get back on track
All right, man. We're we're we're we're just hashing it out this
Fucking crazy old dude who worked at a ups store. Yeah, he he cut open your package found your credit card
Yeah, he uh contacted the postmaster general postmaster general contacted the secret service and then
Um, I got an email one day telling me I had a package waiting on me which I did actually
I had you know stuff coming in and out and uh
I get there
And I I walk up to the counter and I'll give the old man points for this one
I'll give the old fucking bastard points for this one because I couldn't tell
He was not even shook
Really? He played it cool as motherfucking cucumber when I went up there. I signed for my package
It was just like normal. It was like an everyday
You know what I mean transaction with him and I'm pretty good like I pick up on subtle things like that
I can tell if somebody's nervous. I can tell if something isn't right. Yeah, you know
I mean, especially when I deal with somebody on a regular basis, but now he played it cool
I'm going to walk out the door
and the door swings open
And I didn't see the dude's face
I just seen a badge
Because he had it on his belt
They were in like plain clothes
And he had a badge on his belt and that's what I seen and then I went to go walk out the door and the other dude blocked the door
And I was like fuck
And that's when it all just came that's when it just came flooding like my stomach fucking dropped
Like I immediately my armpits just started like turned on the faucets. You know what I mean?
Like the fucking nerves just started going crazy
And they were like, uh, Ryan Pearson
And I was like, yeah
And he said, uh, what do you say? He said, uh, um, we need to talk to you about what you've been sending out of here
And I try I tried to play stupid at first, but he said Ryan Pearson
So I was like, okay. Well, obviously he doesn't know who the fuck I am
And I tried to play stupid at first. I was like, what do you mean? He's like, he gave me that look and I was like
All right, all right
He's like, well, why don't you come in the back? He's like, come in the back because there were people coming in out of the store
And she's like, which come in the back and talk to us real quick
So I sat down. He's like, uh
They're like, so, uh, what do you been sending out of here because he's like, we have your package you sent out of here
We know what you've been sending out of here
And then that's when literally the movie blow flashed in my head
And I remember when he was sitting and you've seen the movie blow obviously when he's sitting in the room and um
And and he knew it was a setup at that time. He's like, he knew it and he just sat back in his chair. He was like
All right, fuck it. Let's do it
And that's what I said. I said, I was like, all right, fuck it. Let's do it
He's like, what's your name? I was like, you know, John Boziak and then he's like, what'd you been sending out of here?
I was like credit cards and he's like, all right
And then he's like, you know, I had to explain to him what I had been doing and of course I minimized every fucking thing
You know what I mean? I minimized the shit out of that situation. I was like, okay in my mind
I was like, what do they have?
You know what I mean? What do they what do they really have right 500 cards? Okay. That's what they have
so
I gave them I I was I gave them
What they kind what I kind of felt like I already knew they they thought they knew that I didn't know that they knew if that makes any sense
You know what I mean? Like I was trying to be slick with it
And so I just told them I gave I fed them
What they would I thought they're like, okay, they know I've been making cards
So I'm gonna tell them I've been making cards. I'm not gonna fucking tell them how long I've been doing it
Or how much I've you know, how many cards I've been doing it. Obviously. I'm not gonna just be like, okay
Here it is. I've been doing everything, you know, and I'm not gonna obviously I'm not gonna tell them myself
So I just I gave him enough to set that I felt like satisfied him
So I agreed to um
He gets on the phone with his supervisor. He's on the phone on off. He's got blackberries. He's
Send an email. He's making phone calls. I'm like, what year is it now?
2009 okay
Yeah, he's in the blackberry crackberry. Yeah, those blackberries. Well, all the feds use blackberries. I think they still use iPhones
Yeah, they're all iPhones now, but yeah their bag. Yeah, they used to play blackberries back in the day. So, um
What was I saying? Oh, yeah, I agreed to um, I agreed to let them come to my uh, my home in search and um
Sees all my equipment
See the list of the seizure list like when I got it. Yeah, it's multiple freedom of information
Yeah, yeah. Well, and it's on your indictment. No, no. Yeah, it's on the indictment. It's on my indictment. Yeah, where they list like
I was just, you know, this fargum or this thermal printer this thermal printer this m
I'm like multiple m.r. At like it's like
three or four laptops. I mean it's just it just goes on and on and on and on like
Um, you know hot foil, you know press machine, but you know, it's like like why do you need three?
What fucking blew me away out of this whole situation is I they didn't arrest me
I didn't go to jail
They fingerprinted me and took my picture out
They took a fingerprinted me in the back of the ups store
Then they made me go out in front of the ups store and they made me stand and they took my picture and they turned the side
And they took my picture
And then they they had a bunch of paperwork faxed to the ups store and I signed all of it letting them
Okay, I give you permission to search my home. I give you permission to you know, whatever this before we even went to my condo
They put me in the back of their car
They drove me to my condo
And they went in and they spent about four and a half hours tearing that motherfucker apart just two dudes
Actually, it was one dude that was doing all the searching. I was sitting in the living room and the other dude was just sitting in there with me
You know and to these guys I'll give these guys credit. They were cool. You know, I mean like
Under any other circumstances like these weren't like bad dudes like some cops are fucking pricks
Right, you know what I mean? They just they talk down to you. They talk shit to you. You know what I mean?
They tear your shit up. You know what I mean? These motherfuckers were kind of cool
You know, I mean they were in my closet
I had like like 300 pairs of sneakers or something like that and a dude was like
He was like he kept coming out there. It's like dude. I really like your fucking
He's like we were talking about like Jordans is you talk me about my sneaker collection
While this other asshole was in there fucking tearing up and going through all my computers and shit
and then
So, yeah, they searched my whole place. They they confiscated anything with a removable
Removable storage. I think they say anything with removable storage. They took it. So any hard drive any cell phone
Laptops they obviously they took I had a safe in the bedroom
I had my safe in the bedroom with a bunch of money in it fucking ammunition fucking
I had like a like a thousand cards or something like that printed because what I would do is I would get ahead of myself
Like if I was wasn't busy, I would just be bored. I would just print and make a thousand cards
Just in case you got any blanks, right just to stick them in the safe
And then I would just and I if I needed to I would go ahead and boss them and code them and you know
Just streamline the whole process right and then um, so yeah, they confiscated everything took my safe
And he gave me a card and I had guns at the house. They didn't take none of my guns
I had my concede weapons license. I had firearms all over the house. They didn't take any of
I had weed at the house and this is south carolina south carolina illegal
At that time marijuana is illegal in south carolina. Fuck. Yeah, still. You don't have they don't they're fucking the picks over there
They didn't legalize the bible baby. Yeah, that's the fucking uh, exactly
He was balls deep in the bible belt and um, yeah, you said you you you
I mean you had told me I remember you had said
They were anything we should know about you said, well, I've got guns and they were like, well, we're not the atf
Yeah, he's like, we're not the atf. And I was like, I got a little bit of weed too. He's like, well, how much weed you got?
I was like, well, it's not pounds
It's a little bit, you know, it means I smoke every day. I have been since I was you know a little kid, but
Yeah, they didn't take the weed they left all my fucking they left my drugs and my guns
They only wanted the fucking
The credit cards and all the equipment and everything and then he gave me didn't arrest you
They didn't arrest me
He gave me he gave me a business card and he gave me a date on the back of the business card
He said I need you to be here on this date. If not, you're gonna have a warrant off for your rest
And so yeah, I had to go to the secret service
Headquarters in columbia, south carolina and I walk into a room and there's this long fucking table
And I walk into this room and there's like eight dudes sit around the table and in the middle of this table
They got all these screenshots laid out in front of them of carter.su
Of fucking all the carter forums. I was on they had screenshots of my posts on the forums
They had screenshots of all my fucking
People who I had been dealing with they had screenshots of
I see icq chats with me
So apparently I had been chatting with the secret service
Like they were buying cards from me. What?
Yeah, and I didn't know any of this and they still couldn't fucking track. They still couldn't find you. Well, man, I was bulletproof
Yeah, whoa, yeah, they still didn't arrest them and they still didn't arrest me. So I go down there, right?
So I show up. He hasn't been indicted yet. Do you see what I'm saying? Like like what are they trying to do?
Well, they have it. They gotta put together a case and he hasn't been indicted. So they're trying to so they're trying to build their case
They would they and this is just a theory of mine
But they they thought they got the little fish and they were trying to get the big fish
There was a big fish though. There was a big fish to get this dot in the u.s. In the united states
Yeah, which was they were using you to build a build a bigger like a bigger
They were hoping that I was gonna pop the lid off of some kind of big conspiracy, you know big
multinational crime ring, uh fraud, you know, which I mean I was a part of but I
I didn't have the keys to unlock that door
So you were you know what I mean in their eyes. I mean listen, you know, yeah, shoulder surfer is just a fucking like a
It's just some guy online dealing with like the russian mob. That's shoulder surfer
Yeah, shoulder. I didn't know until later that that that's what was going on
Like I had no clue until after until I fucking put two and two together and figured everything out. I'm like, oh shit
That's pretty fucking intense man. Shoulder surfer was part of the russian fucking mafia
Yeah, either he was plugged in or he they used him to because he was a tech guy or I don't know how he ran
He ran
They use all kinds of he's it's not like he's a made guy. That's what I was that's what I was saying. Oh, okay
No, yeah, I know he was over there doing doing, you know, but that that's what these kids do over there
I mean it's been going on over there for that's where it actually started at
It started in europe, you know way before it came over here
I mean they had that they had the chip and pin system over there
Years before we did over here. Do you remember talking about fucking years?
Do you remember talking about that when I was telling when I was asking you
About like that because when we were talking that where they were just implementing the
The chips the chip in the night and I was like bro, man, they're gonna come out of that chips and it's over and you go
You go they've been making them fucking chips forever. What are you fucking talking about?
We're five or to 10 years behind europe when it comes to when it comes to all that shit. Yeah, so they get everything first and
it trickles down to us
because we're you know
we're uh, uh, uh
What do they call that but
And a corpora corporatocracy corporatocracy corporatocracy. Yeah, that's what we are here
Slia slow to but um, where were we? Yeah, so that's basically anyways
So, yeah, they brought you in and with a bunch of people they weren't arresting you. No, they weren't trying to do they
They were trying to figure out who I was who I knew
Um trying to get more people take yeah, I had to give up all my passwords
To all my emails all my icq chats all of the forums
You know, so I'm sure that then they're like if you log on well
No, if we see you on any of the fucking forums, we'll know, you know, I mean blah blah. We'll come and arrest you
So I was like, you know, it is what it is and they know they didn't take me to jail
It was weird and you know and they just
After that after I went there and I met with all those people and they were asking me all these questions
I got interrogated, you know, do you know this person and they show me this they're like, you know this
They show me screen names. Do you know this person? Do you deal with this person? You know, do you speak russian?
Do you code? They're all this shit, you know
and um
Do you code? Yeah, yeah, they want to know if I was like, you know
They want to know what the spectrum what my what my spectrum of knowledge
I think was you know to try and to see where they could implement me
You know because there was this whole what was the name of the operation or Miami Met
Well, uh open market open market. Yeah, there was operation open market going on at this time
That's uh
That's the isn't that Matt can explain it a little bit better than I can because Matt you actually researched it that I didn't really do
Because you know, basically he was basically there was a carter dot s u like
Carter dot s u
Was the the one that the the main
Form that he was using
And they got and so what happened was after it came on after he left. I'm still getting documents in
So things he's telling me happen when you say after he left after after john left prison
Okay, I had written a synopsis and I had like 60 pages of notes right 60 70 pages of just notes
I might have had 80 pages of notes actually
So I wrote a synopsis which was maybe 20 pages. Well, no, it's like 15 pages long
That's the one that that's the the one I sent you that's on the um on the uh
My youtube channel. Okay, and it's on and and the website. So that's that's a short version
Then I wrote the book. So I had already decided I'm going to expand this into a whole book because there's so much good shit here
So I start getting stuff in I got an the indictment the carter dot s u indictment. I'm pretty sure it's open market
Yeah, it's it's it's open market dark market was the other one open market
so
Carter dot s u was being run out of
russia
And that was the form and the secret service had an investigation into it and was called uh, um operation dark market
No, open market operation open market where they indicted like
I don't know what they indicted 150 or 50 people something like 50 or 100 people whatever and a whole bunch of john does and that sort of thing
Um, and that's when remember he said so after he left after he left the um ups store
I'm sorry. I'm sorry after he leaves south carolina. They let him go. He he's interviewed
Like there's a lot of little things like I didn't know like he just said they took pictures of him in front of ups store
Like I didn't even know that
Like I like I was like when he said that it was like a booking
Yeah, I was but in front of the ups store like I didn't know that like I'm thinking that's kind of you know
They turn you know wit in you know, I'm saying yeah right there like I didn't know that um
I remember the thing where the blow thing because I mentioned that in the book the blow thing where you you said that it flashed through your head
Anyway, so after he leaves there for south carolina
He goes and gets some cash and he gets money out of the bank, right? How much money did you have in the bank at this point?
About 200 grand. Okay, my b.o.a
so he um
No, I think he's talking about the money that was in like us plasticos like in the fucking a couple million
What was us us plasticos was what the us plastico account?
Oh, yeah at this point. Yeah, so
us plastico right remember that's the corp that's the
That fucking a my eye is I think I just rubbed something in my eye. Okay. Sorry
He laughs um
Which when are we talking about now? We're talking about in south carolina
After the secret service lets you go
And you go to my little over two and a half million dollars or something like a bank at this time
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but he goes and gets a couple hundred thousand out of the bank
And then he gets like a hundred thousand or so in cash. He had where it's you
You were cool with keeping two and a half million dollars in the bank at this point
Like you get a service on your ass. Well the account wasn't in my name. Obviously. Yeah, nothing. I set the account up
So there's you didn't feel like there was any risk and keep there was no risk
There was no risk at all because it was a corporate account
And you know, I a corporate account that was in a business's name that you were not affiliated with exactly. Yeah
I set up under it. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, so he grabs money line one on one
So he grabs some of the money a fake fucking person's got a bank account with two and a half million
So he grabs some of the money goes back to miami
Obviously, there's a worn out version. Well, well, I guess they know like this time there wasn't no there wasn't them
But they indict you they wait. Yeah. Yeah, they waited like a couple years
They'd be like three years. Yeah, put a warrant off my right. I thought I had fucking years after that
I thought I had gotten away with everything
Because yeah remember he goes he goes he still uses he uses his real idea to go in and buy a gun because listen at this point
I thought I was going hey, I thought I was going to prison
I'm convinced that I'm going to prison. Right, but after so long
You know what I mean years. Yeah. Yeah, so how are you at this point?
Uh, late 20s. Oh, maybe mid 20s 25 26 27. Yeah with the prison when I was 27. So yeah, yeah
So he goes then he goes to miami 24 years old with two and a half million bucks in the bank from credit card fraud
Listen, you that's pretty wild. Yeah, how how many fucking Cadillacs have you owned? Oh all of them
I mean, you know, we like I did. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's Mercedes. Well, you worked at a Chevy
No, no, I worked for GM. I worked for General Motors when I was like 19
Yeah, and then, you know
I'm watched all the dope boys growing up driving Cadillacs and shit, you know what I mean, and then I finally got my sts
Uh, no, not so much the dunks. They were like the older, you know, 60s 67 70s. They were like the 70s from the 70s
I'm more like, yeah, I'm more like 80s
80s muscle cars, you know, like the dope boys the cutlasses the regals the Monte Carlos, you know, and I mean and then like, uh
I started getting into like the caddies sts the cts. I had them all had a Deville had the dhs
Had two dhs's had three cts's. I had four sts's. I had a red one a white one a black one
Yeah, gave a gave a fucking Cadillac away to some stripper. Yeah
Yeah
Why'd you give it to her? She's a good dick. Really? Yeah, that's worth it. Yeah, it's worth a Cadillac
I don't know about that. Um, but anyway, so yeah, so he goes back to Miami and goofs off for like a year
And that's when you met what I forget. What was the rich kids? What was the rich kid's name?
Oh, you're not my wife. You're talking about the rich kid. Giovanni Giovanni. Yeah, Giovanni. Yeah, who is Giovanni?
Euro trash
Just fucking just this kid. I met Miami beach just fucking trust fund kid living off his dad's money and uh, you know, just euro trash
strip club fucking cocaine party and you know what I mean?
Just that that type of dude, but he was plugged in everywhere. He knew everybody
Really every fucking buddy dude. He knew everybody like he had a he had a badass fucking, uh
condo at the top floor of this fucking this building on uh,
Brickle in downtown Miami
And we used to party like I've never been to brick. I remember going to his
Oh, yeah, I remember going to his place party and do with like Brooke Hogan
It's like financial district and fucking do a lot of fucking people would be there just fucking hanging out and walking
I'm like, what the fuck is going on here, dude? You know what I mean?
It's just wild shit the chick from um
That one chick from uh, uh, orange is the new black
Name it american pie
She was in orange is the new black as well. Oh, is she yeah, what's her name?
Natasha leon or whatever. Is that her name? I don't know. No, no, she's she's a comedian actually
She's actually a really funny comedian. No, it's something like that. Who is this kid? Giovanni. What was his deal?
Giovanni like I said, he's just a fucking euro trash, you know, but he was he was he what was his connection?
No, I was just saying
But yeah, that's just like part of the wild just a wild shit. I went because he basically went for like a year
There's so many characters like that guy in Miami. I feel like he went for like a year or so and didn't do anything
Like didn't didn't do anything but just basically hang out with Giovanni and party and party and blow money
And then he started carding again. That's when the second indictment. That's when that's why I was saying I got another indictment in
remember, I okay
Do you think if you wouldn't have started carding again, you would have never gone to prison?
Well, they still would have. Well, yeah, I mean, I had a warrant, you know at that time
So I was going to prison. It was inevitable. You know what I mean?
I had a mandatory minimum by the way a mandatory minimum 24 months
With aggravated identity after I got everything, you know reduced down. I mean, they won that was like 110 months 10 years
Like what 150 months 120 120 months. That's what I was looking at initially was 120 months. Yeah
At 25 I was 26
Yeah, so I would I would be
Almost 40 by the time I got out
So he started carding again
Went back on the forum started carding again. I knew that's what I mean because you basically ran on money
You weren't working. You were just spending all the millions that you had. Yeah, I was running through it pretty fast
So, yeah, he starts carding again. And that's when what you guys jumped like we've been jumping back and forth
basically remember strippers and
It's a lot of it's a lot of cocaine a lot of cocaine. Yeah, while I was flying private as well back and forth from vegas
Oh, yeah, you were flying private. How much money were you fucking blowing on private?
Well, I well you get a package like people don't know this you get like a package
You pay him like 120 grand 100 grand or something like that. You do the time share thing you get so many hours
So you get so you pay x amount of dollars you get so many hours of flight time time share. Yeah
Yeah, you get so many hours of flight time, right, you know, and I mean, so that's basically a bunch of a bunch of people
Will basically throw in money on on a bunch of planes or whatever
So it's not it's not, you know, it's not like I was it's not like owning your own jet. No, I didn't have a pride and own my own private jet
That's stupid. That's such a waste of fucking money. Well, I mean unless you got unless you got unless you got private jet money unless you own an NBA team
Yeah, sometimes these guys have ridiculous or if it's like a write-off or something like that where you can business
But yeah, but yeah, no, I was you know, I was doing that and um
So yeah, I was flying I was doing vegas a lot and I was going back and forth from uh
Like fort lauderdale to vegas and I was doing like the miami euro trash scene and
It just you know, it was just getting out of hand, you know
I mean it was just all getting completely out of hand
Just like piles of cocaine and hookers on private planes flying the fuck I don't know like it wasn't like that crazy
I mean, I think I like scarface. I think I only took a strip around a plane like one time
Yeah, it was all fucked up and we I had a town car come pick us up from uh scarlet's cabaret and drive us straight to the
Fort lauderdale executive fucking airport and hop on the fucking
But that that's in miami when he was in miami
That's when he got caught remember the wind thing when he told you about brickel or about the about the courier
Because you guys jump forward. I was gonna say something say it. Yeah, you say after he started carting again
that's when
he went to go pick up a package
at a at a an hq
and
He saw the secret serve a secret service. Yeah, we skipped around a minute. Yeah, we skipped around a lot
So yeah, that's when the courier got grabbed
And that's when they and then when he came in also when I was in like the border bookstore
And I seen the same dude that grabbed the courier come in right and that's when I knew my fucking vpn was bullshit
That's what I knew whatever whatever I was doing. I wasn't doing something right. I got sloppy
And so he went to temple terrace. Yeah, all this happened after I got caught the first time by the secret service
So that's when he went to temple terrace. Remember, he said he got grabbed in temple terrace
So that's when he left miami went to temple terrace, which was where I grew up by the way
Where is temple terrace again? Temple terrace is what state? No hit Tampa. It's just outside Tampa
Oh, yeah, it is the ghetto. It's like the ghetto side of Tampa. Basically people think temple terrace is kind of like a suburb
It's actually his own little city, but yeah, it's basically it's like hillsboro hillsboro and fucking
So he was there that's when he gets arrested for the final time
And that's when they sent you to Coleman, right? Yeah
You're right. I mean, I know we jumped we were jumping around back and forth
But that's when he got arrested in
in and that's
in a Cadillac
It's like every every report I would get in Cadillac
Cadillac, I just think it's so fucking amazing. I put that one in the river. Oh, yeah
And I didn't I didn't so I didn't even tell him the story
Like I completely fucking forgot I put a Cadillac in the river full of people
And then I didn't even tell Matt the story or something
I think I had mentioned it. I don't remember fucking how it happened
But he got a police report
And then he's TTA. He was like, oh, I just got this police report. He said you put a you were you drove a car into a
Something and I was like, oh, yeah, I fucking forgot about that or something like that. You had told me over lunch one time
I didn't write it down
Like I didn't write it down in our note like when we were taking notes
I didn't write it down
He just happened to tell me one day. He was driving his buddy's car
It was it was your buddy's car and it was my Cadillac. It was mine
I don't think it was a Cadillac. It wasn't a Cadillac at all. You put in the fuck. I had a Cadillac at the time
That's right. It was it was my uh, I had a grand damn and so right. Yeah, yeah, yeah
He raced the car gt jumped it into
Lost control jumped it and it went into like a canal or something
And so he had told me this story
And I was like, okay
Well, when I ordered all these documents, I happened to get this police report in
And I'm reading and I'm like the fuck is this and I was like
This is what he told me. He was racing his buddies. He's like doing donuts in the fuck or driving around is
I was playing tokyo drift through the apartment complex. Yeah, they were trying to see how you could drift and he ends up
That's right
They were playing a video game or something or talking about fucking drifting or something through the fucking apartment complex hit the curb
Great where you pull up into my spot at there was like, you know, like the little parking block
And then there was like a hill in a canal
And I was just going too fast and fucking over down the hill into the canal
And I read the cop report. We're all drunk. Sure enough car full girl. I was trying to fuck this one girl
I just that totally fucking turned her off for the night. That kind of killed the whole mood
Killed the whole mood for the night and fucking bum me out
That's hilarious
Oh, there were all these little ridiculous things that he had told me that I would get these documents in
And at that point you were in that halfway house, I think and I he would he you know
I'd call and he'd answer and I'd be like, well, what's up with that? I got this thing and he'd be like, oh, yeah
I think it's so
Fucking crazy. How much time did you did you do total in person?
I think it was almost about it was 24 months. Yeah 24 months of two years two years
Yeah, I think it's so fucking wild how much shit that you did and you only got two years
Well, well, are you using the 24 months?
You're not including like the halfway house
Because his yeah, that's halfway house included his victims. Oh you did. Oh you got
I got six months halfway house. Not with me. What about the second time when you got arrested?
Oh, yeah, after I got out. Yeah, you got out. You got arrested. You're not including that
So you went in for two years in the Coleman
Uh, about six months. Okay, so that's so that's 30 months. It's just 30. It's about three years then
Yeah, all together. So you did two years in Coleman got out and then you did you started carting again
Yeah, I started fucking around again right as soon as I got out of halfway house
After Matt met you wrote the synopsis and he was trying to call you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got on started fucking around again
And you got six months. Uh, talk on the phone. You just disappeared
Talk on the phone is
Yeah, just one day phone. Dude, this is how listen to this shit. Dude. I got fucking I got so I order
So I go back through my my connect, right? I call my dude from china and I got holograms coming in
Right after I after this is after I'm in I'm living in Miami. I just got the halfway house
I'm in a fucking studio bedroom in a studio apartment and the fucking and I was in like I was living in like
Little Havana or something like that in Miami. What happened to the bank account with all the money and it was completely depleted
It's gone. I don't have access to it
Yeah, I don't have access to that what happened to it
Uh
My debit cards and and all that shit got thrown out my wife
Because we were getting pulled over like so when I got picked up in temple terrace. Yeah
Um
I thought
For sure they're gonna come to the house and search right when I got picked up right, you know what I mean
I was unaware that I had a warrant from the other shit from you know years prior or whatever
Right, and that's what it was for so when I told my wife. I was like listen as soon as you get home
Get rid of everything
Whatever I have there just get rid of it. You know what I mean dispose of it
Okay
And because I thought they were gonna come and search and if they would have found all that shit
I would I would fuck I'd still be in prison. You know, they would have
They would have built a prison and named it after me
so
and um
So yeah, she went home and she got rid of everything she fucking just destroyed everything threw it away
I don't know what the fuck she did with it and so I go to jail and I was in jail for a little while and then I come home
and
I was like, you know
She's like I got rid of everything was like goods like where are the debit cards? Did they ever come to search for it? No
No
No, they never came never came to my house to search because the warrant wasn't for that
I wasn't getting picked up for that like I thought I was I thought I was getting picked up for that for specifically
what I was doing at the moment, but it was for what I had already done
and um
So yeah, it's the the clarified the warrant that he was being picked up on was for
The south carolina arrest which they already confiscated all of their stuff. Right. He's thinking it's for a second indictment out of
Out of um, uh navada
So he's thinking they're going to come to the house again
But they don't and you already had bought a shit little more equipment. I had all new equipment
You had all kinds of I read up. I read up and went for a fucking second run. Yeah
Okay, so you I was trying to I was trying to do the big dirty you call your wife
I'm trying to do the big dirty she tossed all the cards and she would you all the equipment
She tossed it through the way so you came home after going to jail for how long I was going for
I was only going a week or something like that a week or two
So I had to go to court and then all I should so all your money is on all these different
Spread out and all these different debit cards. How much money was it?
I want to say the I know the boa for sure had over a million dollars in it at the time
and then I maybe had
Maybe 120,000 spread out throughout the throughout the western union cards
Because I I mean I had close to three and a half million dollars at the beginning
But I went on just a rampage like a two like a two-year rampage almost
And then I met my wife in Miami and then I calmed down and I tried it was like, okay
I'm just going to go straight now
So all of those cards the million one point whatever million gone just gone poof
It up and vanished like a fucking fart in the wind and there was nothing I could do about it
And I believe me. I'm still sick to my stomach to this day
What was your reaction when you found out she threw everything I snapped out
But it was just like my initial reaction was I snapped out and then
We sat down and we had a conversation about it and it was like
I tried to go and look where she said she threw the stuff away at and the garbage the garbage had been taken out
You know what I mean like I I was thinking about going to the fucking landfill and digging through fucking like I just didn't like
I didn't know like I didn't you know what I mean like all these ideas are running through my head
Like this can't be it like this just can't be it it can't this can't be this can't be the end of it
This can't be the end this can't be it
And it was just it was over it was fucking all over
Yeah, it's all over
Going to the landfill that's extreme
Yeah, you're there people have done much worse for fucking less money for half that amount you know what I mean
So I'll I'll go fucking dig through fucking piss and shit
You know what I mean to get those goddamn debit cards back
But they were just gone everything was gone and it was over the ride was over
I had literally no money like nothing. I had maybe
10,000 in cash
In a fucking shoebox somewhere and that was it
And I was going to prison and I was out on fucking uh, um, um supervised release here's the and they let him out on bond again
That's what I understand. I can't get fucking bond. They let him out up. They grab it
They keep letting him out. They let him out again
And then he doesn't report. He stops where he goes. He goes to fucking, um, michigan
went to michigan
came back
And then eventually they catch up with them. How many how long
After they caught up with you. I don't I forget if it was a month or two months or whatever
I don't remember. It wasn't that long. They they they rated your uncles. Was it your uncle or cousin?
Yeah, my uncle called me. It's like dude the fucking us marshals just kicked in my door
I got I got some martial just got done burning
I got the marshals report for that. Uh, like they stake that out. Yeah, they stake that's why I said
That's one of the reasons I wanted to go back and get the documents to show you remember you say he's you said dude
It was a bad trip. I'm like, dude. I'm sorry, man. Fuckin killed my buzz. He's like, dude. It was a bad trip
I was like, dude. I'm sorry, bro. I didn't know, you know, I'm sorry
You would probably know like looking at the documents you like they like sat out somebody some fucking guys house
Like they're staking out all these fucking houses. He thought I was at where he's he's not even in michigan. He'd gone there came back
And then they caught up with you somewhere
So what do you do after you find after you fucking have this coming to jesus
Moment where you realize all of your millions of dollars are gone and you have nothing. It was all downhill after that
These are the bad times that when you started fucking what happened now what happens, dude, I broke
I got fucking I'm I'm married. I got a kid. That's not like nine months old
I go to prison. I'm broke. I go to prison
And it was I fucking I lost everything dude everything everything I had all my cars
Everything I had like my I don't know all my sneakers fucking I'm like in prison. I'm like, okay
At least I'm gonna get out and have some gear
You know what I mean? At least I'm fucking get out and have a fucking a little something
You know me some clothes some shoes, you know saying so the shit the fruits all the shit that I had fucking got with all
You know, I mean at least I'll have that when I get out
No
All fucking gone
Yep
Wife got knocked up by some other dude. No
No, I didn't know that I get out. I'm in the halfway house. Were you still talking to your wife when you were in prison?
I remember I remember she didn't really write me that much. She never came
I didn't I didn't get one visit the whole time I was there the whole two years
Um, she wrote me like once or twice
No, you were getting email you she was emailing you. Yeah, but those those got cut off after a minute
Oh, okay, and so I was like whatever, you know what I mean worry about it when you were in there
No, I wasn't because she
Every time I talked to her she's like baby. Everything's fine. I love you
So to give her a little bit of credit. Thank you for that
You know me I kept you kind of thank you for not shitting on me like listen
I'm fucking I'm fucking this dude right now and you know what I mean like
Yeah, at least you know what I mean don't fucking tell me that shit. You know, I mean at least fucking
Fuck, you know what I mean? I could see that my time was a little bit easier. I mean, I didn't really have that much time
Whatever and uh, yeah, I get out. I'm in the halfway house. She's got some dude living with her at her fucking mom and dad's
Right
I'm fucking her as soon as I get out of the halfway house
The day I get out I'm fucking her and she's going back to this dude. She's got living with that's my wife, dude
We're fucking married. We have a kid together. What are you doing? You fucking retard? Yeah, you know, what are you doing? Yeah
So she's still with this dude and I'm still fucking her. You know what I mean like
so
Yeah, so she she dips out like one day she just disappears and she goes to fucking Nebraska
She disappears to Nebraska and I'm on I'm on I'm on
I'm on federal probation at this time because I just got out of halfway house. I'm on federal probation
And she she just disappears
I'm like, okay, whatever. I'm in Miami. I'm fucking
I'm working at this warehouse in Miami and it's grueling man
I mean, I'm having to wake up at three o'clock in the morning
And I was living in uh, I was living down like 12th and Flagler
In Little Havana, which is like right by like Miami high school
Which is kind of like by downtown but not really like you got to go down Flagler ways before you get downtown Miami
And so I had to walk every morning because I didn't have a car. So I didn't shit when I got out of halfway house
I didn't have nothing no money. I came home to nothing no no nothing
Dude, I had like fucking one pair of shoes that I got bought while I was in prison
From prison commissary fucking nikes. I mean fucking this is my nikes in prison commissary. Oh, yeah. Yeah. What? Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, I didn't know that. I mean, they're not nice. They're not like fucking retro. Jordan's or anything
I mean, they're like socks and t-shirts and shit from fucking prison. Really? I still wear. I fucking got rid of all that shit
Fucking still wearing a ball of bronze in prison. No, they're not they're not cool nikes. You know what I mean?
It's not they're not the good ones, you know what I'm saying, but they're they're nikes
So yeah, so I'm rocking prison nikes, you know what I mean?
I'm getting up at three o'clock in the morning and I'm fucking I gotta walk all the way downtown Miami from 12th and Flagler
And that's a rough part of town at Miami. That's a fucking pretty rough part of Miami and at three o'clock in the morning
There's no buses running
So I gotta walk all the way downtown at three in the morning because I got to catch the very first train that leaves downtown Miami
That goes all the way to fucking uh
High aliyah, which is an hour train ride
But I got to catch the first one because I got to be to work at a certain time in the morning
So I got to catch the first train to go an hour
To catch a bus to ride a bus an hour to go to work
To work fucking in a warehouse for 10 12 hours a day and then have to run that whole fucking
Back again all the way to the house
And I was doing that as soon as I got out of prison
You know what I mean?
I'm used to driving brand new fucking cars and doing whatever the fuck I want to do
And now I'm I'm I'm a fucking cockroach down here in Miami doing nothing
So I was like I only could I could only take a couple months of that
And I was just like I was at my breaking point to where I was like listen
I'm gonna kill myself like this is I'm there's because for me. Let me look at me. I'm fucking tattooed
I mean, I have an education. I have my socialist degree
You know what I mean? And I kind of feel like I can articulate myself well and I have a vocabulary and I speak well
But that people don't see that and people don't give a fuck about your
Associate's degree when you bend the prison and you look the way I do they just don't care
Right
So any kind of situation that I go into that's a regular kind of employment situation
I'm not making it fucking very high on the corporate ladder. No, you know, I made that decision a long time ago
Yeah, that that's it is what it is
And I'm fine with that
But here I am I have to have a job because I'm on probation
You know what I mean? I'm on federal fucking probation and I got this probation officer, which she was really fucking cool
She she didn't really give a shit what I did, but um
I
Can only do it for two months and I was just over it and I was just I was just like I can't do this anymore
I'm fucking over it and
I was fucking this girl from the halfway house that I met in the halfway house and like her brother like I
I started fucking with her brother
And her brother kind of was like wanted to like he kind of knew about like
I kind of told him like what I had done like my past and kind of knew about like everything and he was like
he kind of wanted to jump into it
and
He kind of put up the money. He didn't kind of he did put up the money
He put up the money and we bought bought the equipment
And I fucking suited up for another run dude the third one. I'm like, you know what this is going to be the big dirty
The last hurrah
I'm getting I'm gonna I'm gonna get a million and I'm gonna go ahead and invest it and and you know what I mean
Open like a legitimate business and pay taxes and all that shit
Didn't go that way
She turned out to be a complete fucking psychopath
Wait, is this the chick the statue? Yeah
Oh
Listen this story like there's a whole other series of stuff like he got this chick stabbed me with a pair of scissors
And almost almost killed me
Where'd she stab you in my chest?
bounced off my breastplate
Yeah, almost almost killed me and then um, so yeah that went that whole thing went pretty south pretty fast and then
So then I'm fucking with this chick and her brother wants to you know get into it
And he bought the equipment. So yeah, so I order in my I contact my my my dude in china and I get some some holograms sent in
And they get they get they get stopped at customs because you I'm tracking my package and I could see it says customs hold on it
So I'm like, fuck they got it which it's fine because I'm like, it's not in my name. It's not coming to my apartment. Right, right, right
I get about a week two weeks later
I'm I get two DHL the delivery service DHL dudes at my door knocking and I look at my people and I see two DHL dudes
I'm like, what the fuck so I open the door to two
And he's got this he's got this yellow. He's got this envelope in his hand. It's wrapped in yellow tape
And that's anything that comes from china. I don't know if you've ever ordered anything from china
but they use this this
And this is you it's you can see it from a mile if you see it you know what it is
Like anything that comes from china like if you order bulk anything from china, they wrap it in this like this yellow fucking tape
You know what I mean? So I seen the package in his hand. I knew exactly what it was immediately because I had ordered holograms from this dude before
So right then and there I'm like fuck
And he's like, uh
He's like they were like and I didn't have my name on it. Obviously. He's like, uh
He he was like this is the packages for you and he showed me him like no, they don't live here
And he's like he's like you sure he's like how long you've been living here. I was like, uh, I just moved in like that's already too many questions
About a month ago. I was like, yeah, I was like, uh, are you sure?
Hey, he's like, so he's like, okay, and so I closed the door
And and he walked away and I immediately I was like fuck me. Fuck me. Fuck. They got you. Fuck me. I'm done
I'm going back to prison because I'm on listen. I just got out of prison. I just got out of fucking federal halfway house
I'm on federal probation. You know, I mean, it's all bad. It's just all bad. Yeah
and um
So he comes back to the door. I haven't heard this
I like I heard I knew you got a story. No, I knew you I knew he got arrested
Like we were on the phone when he said fuck. They showed up with my fucking house. They grabbed me. They arrest
They know they brought arrested. They brought you downtown. I knew that but I haven't heard this whole thing. Yeah, and um
So yeah, so then I hear bang bang bang bang bang at the door. I'm like, fuck. He's like police
And then now they're yelling police
So I'm like fuck dude
I'm looking at the side window
You know, I'm saying I'm thinking about jumping out the fucking side window and then just dipping. I'm like, wait a minute
I'm thinking in my head. I was like, I don't have anything here
I was like, they don't fucking have anything on me. I was like, all the hebbas is packaged that came to my door
And you've already denied it. You didn't sign. So I opened the door back up. I'm like, I'm gonna fucking ride this thing all the way out
Fuck these motherfuckers. Yeah, you know what I mean? Who the fuck do they think they are coming here trying to arrest me?
You know what I mean? I'm gonna fucking talk my way out of this shit like I do everything else
I'm talking my way out of it, right?
And I'm still I got them convinced at this point like I got them convinced at this point that it might not be me
Like they think it's me, but they might not they might not be me and I haven't I haven't
But they don't know but they don't because they don't have I'm not registered to this address
Oh, and you haven't they don't have your name. They haven't given I haven't given them my driver's license or anything
Right. Okay. I didn't know so I'm we're talking where in my kitchen
FedEx shows up
What a giant fucking box
Of what?
A fucking embossing machine somebody else ordered an embossing machine to your address. That's crazy
Who would do that while they're in there talking to you?
While while the fucking while I almost had him
I almost fucking had him and tell this to the fucking FedEx fucking shows up with this giant box
I didn't know that's good shit. That's good shit. And when the box shows up it shows up to the same name
As the fucking as the holograms were showing up for and the police went out there and talked to him
That probably worked it to your advantage though. No, it didn't because they went out here and talked to him
And he's like he's like, yeah, I've delivered several packages to this address and he's he's signed for him
Right there. They fucking had me
Right there. They fucking had me
Yeah, they knew I couldn't talk my way out of it then they knew and I had to give him my id and they ran
They found out what I had just been to prison for and they're like, okay. All right
So at this point, I'm like, oh I'm fucked
This is it
It's all over with. I'm going back to fucking prison. All right. I just got out. I'm fucking going back
So he's like, um, we want the lab. Hey cup stand. We want the lab. We want the lab
The lab. Yeah, the the print shop because I guess they had just busted some people because of Miami's huge for for fraud
Yeah, Miami's like fucking fraud central in the United States. It's it's fucking new york
Miami, los vegas and and los angeles are like the the crime
Hubs for for credit card fraud and for identity theft and all that shit. So
It turns fingers are turning blue cutting off circulation. Um, what the fuck's I saying?
Do you want to go out or they they want the lab? Yeah, we want the lab. We want the lab
and um
So, I mean this next part's gonna fucking kind of sound kind of bad
On my part when you snitch. Oh for sure. I did. Yeah, I'm not going back to prison. Right. I'm not going back to prison. Okay
This is great. Fuck these motherfuckers. Motherfuckers
Fuck these motherfuckers. You know what I mean? That's my attitude, right?
I'm not going back to prison for these motherfuckers that I don't even know right, you know what I mean
So they like want the lab. We want the lab. I'm like, all right
So this dude's a mastermind. I told him, you know what I mean? This dude's the fucking mastermind
I threw buddy under the bus. I'm sorry, buddy
Do you ever watch this? I'm fucking sorry. His name is buddy. No, his name's not buddy. Okay
I'm fucking sorry, dude. I apologize, but I wasn't going back to prison. I apologize. Yeah, my bad
Um, who was the who it wasn't this secret service though that grabbed you it was though
This was the Miami financial crimes unit. So it hadn't I was like is this federal? That's the first thing I asked him
I was like is this federal? He's like, no, it's not federal
I was like, okay. Now I got some wiggle room. Then I knew I had some wiggle room, you know what I mean?
Because if it's federal you're fucking you're done
They're just gonna indict you and then you can cooperate and then you're still going to be in your prison
Yeah, so if it was federal, I was like, you know what? Let's go right now
Right because it would have done me no good to fucking to do anything
But it was it was local. So I knew I had some wiggle room, you know, you can you can you can work with them
So I gave him a dude's fucking address and then the dude fucking calls me while they're there
Oh, this is happening. This this is just just a wrong fucking day, dude
Yeah, the wrong day the dude calls me because we were waiting on the embosser to come in and I was because the lab was at his house
Because I was like, that's what I told the dude was like, dude, I'm not setting all this shit up
I got my fucking probation officer comes over here
He's gonna come in here and see what you asked me questions about all this equipment
And he's supposed to have a fucking laptop. You know what I mean?
Fuck so we had all the shit stood up at his house
He calls me while they're there. I had to put in a fucking speakerphone
He's like, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, he's talking to me and he's like, you know, did it show up?
I'm like, yeah, it's here. He's like, uh
Come drop it off now. I'm like, I can't really do that and they're like
They're both like
I'm like, all right, where you want to meet it?
So he's had me meet meet him at this fucking, uh, I don't remember what it was like a publics or something like that
And he's like, oh, we gotta we gotta mic you up. We gotta mic you up. I'm like, what the fuck are we talking about?
Like, listen, I'm not wearing a wire, man. What the fuck are you guys talking about?
You know what I mean? Like he's like, no, no, no, it's not like the movies. You know what I mean?
They brought me like a fucking pager
And the pager was like a listening device. It was like a microphone
And I had to fucking wear it in my pocket when I went and dropped the fucking
The thing off to him. Yeah, so I drive so I meet the dude at publics. I dropped the fucking
I dropped this is this whole story is wild
I dropped the fucking I dropped the um the thing off with him. I wear the fucking listening device. Once again, dude
I'm sorry. I wear the fucking listening device. You know what I mean? I'm fucking such a piece of shit for this, dude
I I'm 100 but I'm not going back to prison. Right. You know what I mean? Right. Fuck that. I'm not going back to prison, right?
Yeah
I'm sorry, so um
Yeah, I had to wear the listening device on buddy and then fucking meet it publics meet at publics. I dropped it off
I met with him
Uh, I drove somewhere and then another one of the one of the two dudes that were there met me there
They followed um him to his house
And then called in fucking reinforcements and they fucking raided his house and found all the equipment
Everything they found all the equipment
So he was like, um, he's like, all right. He's like, you can go the dude at the thing. He's like, you can go
I was like, all right, he lets you walk. Let me walk, but he's like we'll be in contact with you
And he's like, you know, we have to we have to report this to your probation officer
We have to it's by law. We have to right
So I was like, well, all right, fuck
I'm on I'm running
You know what I mean? Because now I got I got a little while that gets my back to my fucking apartment pack a bag and get the
Fuck out of dodge, you know, you're gonna get a probation violation 1 000 percent. I'm gonna get a
Yeah, so even if the state says even the state says we won't okay. We're not gonna charge them
I was federal with the illegal activity, which is
Clearly a fucking violation of the rules by fucking conduct my probation. Yeah, doesn't matter. Clearly. They don't want me fucking printing credit cards
You know what I mean? Yeah, or attempting or hand they can they can they're gonna they're gonna violate for anything
Something like that. They're gonna violate you for anything
Yeah, so I take off I go back to my my my my little apartment I had
Um, and at this time I we hadn't even started making any money yet at this time. I got still fucking working at the warehouse
I still really didn't have shit
I mean I had a little bit of money because I was doing um, we were making cards
So I was going out and doing a little bit of store carding and shit
You know, I mean just to have a few dollars here and there because I was I was doing bad
Dude, I was doing fucking bad
I went I went up to the use car lot at the end at the end of the street and got a fucking old uh, 2003
Cadillac fucking uh, uh, uh DHS or some shit like that. I mean it was fuck
It wasn't you know my former glory if I was trying to get back to my former glory, you know
I mean you ever see that fucking movie kingpin
with um
You might be a little bit too young for that one. It's got woody harrelson in it and it's
And he's got he's got he's got the he's got the gto and he's young and he's fucking
You see him like years down the road and the gto's all fucked up and he's bald and shit
Like that was me trying to make a comeback
And here I am trying to make a come try and fuck I got the Cadillac, you know, I mean I'm starting to break cards again
I'm doing all right
You know, but then I got we all got fucked up
But at least they gave me the heads up that they're going to notify your probation officer
Right, so I got I had a little bit of time
So I go back to my condo my apartment and I pack a bag and I call um
I call my cousin in in Detroit and I was like yo, he's like I need to come I need to come home
I need to come up there
And he bought me a plane ticket and I drove my I drove my Cadillac to the airport
And I just left it at the airport and I hopped on a plane because I had no intention of ever coming back to Florida
Right at this point. I mean I did maybe but not
In the same car in the same apartment in that, you know
So I left I left the fucking car at the airport and I flew to michigan
And I hung out in michigan
Let me see I got out of halfway house and uh, I got a halfway house on my 30th birthday
Is when I got out of the halfway house was february 6th on my 30th birthday
And this was february. So by july I was this is when everything went down was in july
Okay, so it's like five months. Okay, so then I go out to um, I go out to michigan
And this time I was like, okay, I'm fucked. Obviously. I know I have a probate. I just absconded
Hey, I just absconded from probation and I'm gonna have the probation violation for
The the shit. I just got popped right, you know
So now I'm like, you know, I'm fucked pretty much. So I'm in michigan
I'm fucking partying it up staying at my cousin's house just going on a rampage just drinking
Just knowing that it's all coming out. Oh, yeah, dude. I'm going out with a bang. You know what I mean?
And and so I'm partying it up. I'm like, okay, I don't give a fuck if whatever happens happens
And uh, my wife calls me up. She's in Nebraska
She says I'm pregnant
I need you to come out here
I said, all right
You know what I mean? At this time, I'm like, fuck I can get the fuck I can go hide in Nebraska
Who the fuck's gonna find me in Nebraska? You know what I mean? There's nothing out there but corn
You know, it's it. Yeah corn and cattle. Right. That's it
And I'm fuck. I go hide in Nebraska in my mind. I'm like, that's the perfect fucking place. I go out there
You know what I mean? Settle down. I got the wife got the kids out there. I can fucking hide and maybe in a few years
I'll be able to work all this fucking shit out with a lawyer or something or maybe not
Yeah
So I go out to the I go out to Nebraska
And that started shit show number two
Because it was just one fucking conundrum after another after I went out dude
My this whole thing with my wife and I went out there and
Guys are bringing flowers by the house and fucking leaving bags of sugar at the fucking door and all kind just all kinds of
Fucking weird shit, dude. Like yeah, it's like dude this chick
Had every dude in this little town we lived in
Wanted to fuck her
You know what I mean? And they just every dude in the entire little fucking town
Because they knew we lived town. Yeah, we lived
We you know what I mean? We had nice cars and we lived in the house and you know the main drag
And you know, she went to mcdonalds every morning for a coffee and we both worked at these these small
Manufacturing plants raked in this little tiny small town in uh, Nebraska
and um
Yeah, I mean shit went sideways out there real fucking fast
She started you know doing meth and fucking around with you know scumbags and here I am like I don't do drugs
You know what I mean? Like I smoke pot
Which is a drug
Yeah, so apparently I'm a drug addict and a liar. You're nothing like any of these other guys. Yeah
You're completely normal. Yeah, you know, but I'm not doing the hardcore drugs right fuck. I've never done heroin
I'm not smoking crack. I'm not fucking. I'm not doing that that shit. You know, I'm a fucking I'm a stoner
I don't even really drink that much. You know, I barely ever drink
So, you know, she goes sideways out there, dude. She so the baby's born with meth in its system
Bomb they take our kids away
They take our kids away. I got a warrant for my arrest
I'm laying in a hospital bed with her here come two fucking cops into the fucking hospital room
Wanting to lock her up and me up for drugs and this whole fucking thing
I'm like what the fuck is going on and I didn't even know she was doing meth
I had no idea she was doing meth while she was fucking pregnant because I had to go and work at the fucking I was working
Yeah, yeah, it was fucking all bad
Yeah, fucking piece of shit
So that happened and then our kids got taken away
um
Find out the little girl
Not mine
Not even yours. I knew right away when the baby was born
She wasn't mine that it was the other dude that she had living at her fucking mom and dad's house with her after I got out
You knew right when the baby was born
How sorry. Yeah, I knew right away. How'd you know right? Oh, I looked at her. I looked at her
Yeah, I looked for sure 1000 because I knew what the kid looked like
All right, and this little girl looks just like that fucking kid. I mean, it's his 1000 percent
I mean even the dates don't match up
Because when she when she was when she had the baby and when I was like, I was wait a minute
I was in the halfway house and we had and I remember I was like we had this day this day doing the math
You're like I'm doing the math like this shit just doesn't fucking jive, dude
And you know what I mean, but here I am my I'm trying to give her the benefit of the doubt or well, you know
We had we had already had my son together and I knew he's mine for sure
And you know, I still love her and even to this day. I still love her. I still love her to death
And we're still married
Even though I haven't talked to her in months and we've been separated for four years
I haven't seen her in four years and um since Nebraska. So this whole thing went down in Nebraska and you know, our kids get taken away
Excuse me
And I have a warrant for my rest
Because I just took off from after all this shit just happened down here in in florida
I think it's water
It's just getting wild
I'm parched. Yeah. No, I'm I'm
Because yeah, keep in mind by this point. I'm I'm just done with the with the book
right
The book's been written. Yeah, we're in the book number two now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like I said this whole this whole whole another
situation and um
Yeah, so, you know, the cops they get involved and I got a warrant for my rest. So I'm like, fuck dude, what the fuck
You know what I mean? I'm in my head. I'm like, dude, this bitch just fucked me
You know what I mean? Like I came out here to fucking chill and you fucked me because you're an idiot. You know what I mean?
So the fucking police get involved and you know, sure enough they finally figure out who I am and they run my name
and they came to the house to get me one morning and
This is the whole thing. We tell you this story. So okay, so these these cops show up the gummies wore off
Yeah, I was all coming to him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Pulling teeth before. He's like, yeah
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and um, so so I'm working. I'm working at this little machine shop
Next door to the house in this in in this small town in Nebraska
And I'm over there at work and I see two I see two sheriffs
cars roll up to my house
And I already knew what time it was so I call my wife and uh, and I was right next door. I'm like like the police are outside
I'm going to jail. She's like what where I'm like they're outside the house. She's like, okay
Just stay over there and I was like listen if they know where I live, they know where I work
You know what I mean? He lives here. He works there. It's not very fucking hard. Mm-hmm. So
I remember what happened. I think they left she told him I wasn't there and they left
And then they drove around the back of the shop and then so I leave the front door of the shop and I walk into the house
And I'm fucking hiding inside the house and like the cops are like surrounding the house now
Now they know I have a warrant for my arrest. They know who I am. They're there to fucking take me to jail
They got the whole fucking house surrounded
They're beating on the door. They got flashlights in the windows. My wife's not my wife's out there
You just arguing with him on the front lawn like he's not here. My wife my wife bless her heart. She's
five foot even
120 pounds and she's Cuban and her English isn't you know what I mean? Not like ours
You can tell she's not a native, you know, so she's out there arguing with them
They finally come in the house. They finally find me in the basement. I'm inside of a cabinet
I'm hiding inside of a fucking cabinet inside of the basement. I can hear them all walking around the house for like an hour searching for me
I'm not coming out. I'm not coming out motherfuckers. You gotta come down here and find me hide and seek motherfuckers. You know what I mean?
You're it
You did what I'm saying. So I'm in the basement. I'm inside of a cabinet and I'm small so I can curl up in a ball
And they pull up in the cabinet door and he shines the light in there
And I just stay still
And he closes the cabinet and they was like and they were going to walk away and then I heard I heard I heard the footstep stop
And then I heard somebody say something real low
He saw you
Yeah, I heard him say somebody real low and then they fucking yank open the cabin
They got the tasers on me. They got two of them with tasers on me. I'm like fog and they're like come out your hands up
You know what I mean? So I'm trying to crawl out of this fucking cabinet, dude
And he's grasping on your arm and they yank me out of the fucking cabinet
Dude, I come outside that I'm getting arrested. My wife is fighting the police
She's physically fighting the police in the front yard. God bless her. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I said
Like all right. She's going ham for me. You know what I mean? Like she's fucking going ham. She's screaming. She's fighting the police
She gets arrested
They arrest us both right there. Take us both to jail. Yeah
Our kids were already taken away. They were in like a fucking foster care or whatever like that. We both go to jail
Yeah, so this was november of
2015
Is when I started this little journey is when I when I got arrested and we both went to jail and everything
I didn't get to south carolina because I had to go back and see my judge
In south carolina because that's where my warrant was out of I had a federal warrant out of the southern district of southern carolina
So I had to go I had to go back to south carolina to see the judge. I'm in Nebraska
That's on the other side of the fucking country. You know how long it takes to ship a federal inmate from Nebraska
Not good to fucking to south carolina
They don't put you on american airlines and fly you a direct flight. I'll tell you that much right fucking now
They don't do that. They don't do con air this little they do con air, but they hop skip and jump you to
10 different fucking little shithole county jails or wherever, you know, who has the contract to hold federal inmates at that time
You know, so that I'm bouncing around. Yeah, so I go from
Dude, I'm trying to remember now. I went from
Nebraska
To the small town I was in I sat there for like a week and then I went to Omaha, Nebraska, which is the big city
It's the town. It's the big town in in Nebraska, which is they handle all like the big cases
I sat in Omaha for a month
Maybe two weeks. I think two weeks until they transfer me
From Omaha, I went to
What's the federal uh prison in
Oklahoma city? No, right next to Nebraska. It's in um, Indiana
Leavenworth Leavenworth. Yeah, so they they transfer me from Oklahoma to Leavenworth. So sad that I know this
Yeah, yeah, that's in a federal prison in cyclopedia
Yeah, I whenever you need information
So, yeah, I so then I go to I go to Leavenworth
I'm in Leavenworth for a couple of weeks maybe a month from Leavenworth
They put me on con air and they fly me out to Oklahoma
And I sit in Oklahoma in the in the federal prison out there for like a month and went okay
Mind you when they're transferring you around you don't get into general population
You're in holding
You're in holding for a month. That means no commissary
that means
The little tiny toothbrush with the little tiny toothpaste that doesn't fucking work. You know what I mean?
So your butt your breath is always hot
You know what I mean? You get the little tiny deodorant because I can't buy deodorant. So you get the little tiny deodorant that's
One one thing and it comes out and it fucking pops and hits the floor and jump
You know what I mean the one razor that just basically just cuts you and cuts you and cut me just a little
Yeah, I didn't even get razors. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you got it like you can request
They'll give it to you you shave they give it you give it back. They watch you use it. Yeah
Well, you take the razor out and use a knife. You know what I mean? Yeah, you can you you can pop out the razor
Now you got a razor and put it on the end of got it. Yeah, it's really it's just it's fucking
So these guys are ingenious
But if you're just trying to fucking survive like I'm not involved in all that shit
My life's miserable because you guys want to kill each other
So they transferred you back to south to where south carolina or what eventually I get back to south carolina after leavenworth
Yeah, I go to oklahoma and then oklahoma I go to
Atlanta then Atlanta I go to lovejoy then from lovejoy I get fucking transferred to some other little listen
And mind you through this whole process. I almost starved to death twice
Okay, they left me in a fucking room to sit me somewhere for a second while they went and did something and forgot about me for like 18 fucking hours
No fucking bullshit, dude. I was there was no there was nowhere to get water in the fucking room
I was gonna die
I was gonna fucking die in that room if somebody wouldn't just open the door to see if somebody was in there
Yeah, yeah
So then I met and then I get put into some little shithole fucking um
Jail in south carolina where they starve you where I almost fucking starved to death
You know, so now I've got ptsd from that shit
So yeah, no, I finally get back out to south carolina. I don't get back out to south carolina to see my judge until
After january after traveling from november getting picked up in like the beginning of november
So I don't even get to see my judge until the middle of january and how much time had passed in that that time period
Like from when you got three months 90 days. Yeah, it took about 90 days to get me just to get me in front of the judge
God bro. Yeah
And then you got six months
Yeah, and then they killed my paper
What does that mean?
Uh, they released me without federal probation
And I had how does that happen?
My probation or my my judge said that i'm not a supervisable
Yeah, some guys that
Like i'm a flight risk because they've had listen they've had to extradite me from from from from from Nebraska to south carolina
They've had to extradite me from florida to south carolina multiple times
And they're like
It's just costing us too much money to ship you all over the country because you can't stay in one spot
And he keeps running and I and I keep taking off. I keep upscanning on probation. But hey, I'm not a career criminal
I i'm not a drug addict. You know what I mean? I'm not somebody who
Is in the higher category for recidivism. Yeah, he's not gonna go into a bank with a fucking ak 47
It's not like that. It's gonna come down. I'm not a danger to the public. Yeah, I'm not gonna. You know, I'm not
I'm not a raper or a stabber or nothing like that. Right, right, right
So yeah, I'm sorry. I was gonna say the
A lot of guys I've known guys that have literally like they'll get five or ten years
They'll have five years paper. They'll get paper meaning probation. They'll get out and violate
And come back to prison and then so they'll violate their paper and go in front of the judge and be like the judge
And the judge will they used to do this all the time. They don't do it as much anymore
The judge would say, okay, look, you've got you have three years left on your probation
You know, if I give you a cup if I release you and you put you back on on probation
You know, you're gonna be okay and they'll you know, you're gonna do the right thing
There are there are guys that'll be like absolutely not I'm gonna violate again
Like they'll get caught smoking pot or doing drugs. They'll go I'm gonna do drugs again your honor
And they'll look at them and go well, then you're gonna go back to prison
Well, then I'll go back to prison
But I'm gonna keep doing it and the judge will just look at them and go
Would you rather I quash your paper and they'll say yeah, okay. Well, then you got to go to jail for a year
It's usually one third
So they'll go you go to jail for a year and when you get out you don't have any probation
Okay, I'll go back for a year weird. So they'll go back for a year. Oh, listen. I got five years paper
But the problem is I owe six million. That's rough
He's got somebody up his asshole. Yeah for five fucking years
She's a nice lady though. She I mean she is nice. She's just strict. Most of them are nice. Yeah
They have to do their job
Right. I think the crazy thing about all this is like he had a victimless crime
You basically scammed scammers. You scammed the financial institution the banks. Well, there were some victims in there
Yeah, there's a couple victors. There's people are some people off mine. You you had legitimate victor
Yeah, people individuals you were taking straight from their bank accounts, right? No, he's these are credit cards
They don't lose any money at all. They do have to make some phone calls and it's a pain in the ass
But look if I take your credit card information
And I run up $5,000 on your credit card and then you get the bill in the next month and you go, holy
Shit, right? You just call them and they they that's that they chalk it up to fraud
Right. They they yeah, do you follow a police report?
So you didn't really I was just you didn't steal anybody so hard to earn money
No, really, I was just I was just manufacturing financial transaction devices
Right. Yeah, that was his that was the actually charge was uh
access to was it called
A fraudulent transaction device. Yeah manufacturing of a truck fraudulent. That's just amazing
Which they drop those time that you got then it's wild ain't it?
Well, I mean, it's amazing. Well, it is but I was also look. I was high profile. There was a lot of coverage
There was they're not going to let me skate that the truth is my look the truth is the people involved in my case
Most likely were like if it hadn't been high profile that they would have been like they would have shrugged it off
I would have gotten five or ten years no big deal
But boom a lot of fucking press hammer this guy
Him they dropped he's supposed to get 10 years
They dropped the charge because the ups guy never should have opened the package
But they wouldn't drop the aggravated identity theft because they could prove that so he got he got two years
Yeah, yeah, I got the mandatory and the mandatory minimum for that
Which I got lucky because the guy should not have opened he never should have opened the package
He didn't have authorization. He didn't have authorization that those were sealed sealed packages those that's does he get in trouble?
No, no, but I mean
He helped me out. Yeah, he helped me and hurt me. I guess. Yeah, but I mean look
He can't they can't put him on the stand
He's got to either get on the stand and implicate himself. I opened a I opened a a postal
I opened a piece of mail. I broke a federal law
So most people are probably going to get on the stand and say I can't answer that or he's going to get on the stand and say
look when I called the
The u.s post office
I felt they were instructing me to open the package and that's why I opened it that gives them an out
You see what I'm saying? So either and then guess what now?
That's no good. What was in the package is no good as evidence anyway because he's saying you told him to do it
Yeah, so we can't you either way we can't use it. So his probation. I'm sorry his
Um public defender got the u.s. Attorney to drop that part and so and then and he said, okay, I'll drop that
But he's got to do the two years and they said and he you know
Came back to him and he was like two years is a gift compared to 10. So dig this though
This is something I didn't I didn't forgot to tell you guys
so when I get back in front of the judge and um
She's reading she's reading off all my charges and I get my get my paperwork back
With all my violations on it like because it's like what was like, uh, uh, there's different levels of violation
And in the federal system like everything structured like okay, if you fall in this category of like a level one violation
They can only give you x and out of months
For and then they have to kick you back out again or if it's a level two
Then they can give you x amount of months or if they if you know what I mean? So
I'm going over my paperwork
and
I'm reading my my my report that my probation officer had left and she said that uh, she went to my apartment
Uh, I had she called me on several occasions and I didn't answer her calls
So she went to my apartment and I didn't answer the door and that the, um
Landlord had just happened to be there like cleaning it out and she said that I had moved
So she violated me from absconding for probation
Yeah, not had nothing those two dudes that busted me never went and fucking told them told told my probation officer nothing
Really never told never so I ran I ran for no fucking reason. I could have stayed
I could have stayed in Miami and and and and just try to do the probation thing
I didn't know and I and you know, I didn't know they weren't going to say anything
That was fucking who the fuck knew they weren't going to stay didn't she didn't know
She had no idea that any of that had even happened and they violated me because I I just subsconded
Yeah, that's fucking fucking wild
We just did three fucking hours. Are you serious? Yeah
Rocking and rolling. That was amazing, man. We were rocking and rolling. All right
So, uh, where can everyone listening to this and watching it find more about your story and whatever
You got any social media you want people to follow by matt's book. Yeah, you know by the book his book
He's got a book. He's got a book called bent. Yeah, it's an amazon. Yeah, it's a mountain wire. Yeah, you can find it on amazon
It's bent b e n t
Yeah, uh, if you just go on amazon and you type in the search bar bent cybercrime
It comes right up or my channel, but you got my channel. He's got the narration
Which is just a synopsis of the book a matt's youtube channel. Yeah
It's uh matt cox and inside true crime. Yeah, you know, we can put the uh, put the links
Yeah, or you can connect with me, uh through my social medias
slum by nature at slumb by nature instagram
And uh, yeah with uh, yeah a bunch of uh, the tattoo and stuff too. Hell yeah. Oh, yeah
My tattoo page is uh jug.ink j u u g.ink. Yeah, we can leave but we can send him all the
Sick thanks guys that was a wild ride. Thank you
You
