Billy, thank you for doing this, man. I really appreciate it. Thanks for having me in the
305. Your hair looks great. By the way, live from the, yes, I am the, uh, the lost BG,
the lost BG. Yeah. Got this. I was watching the, the BG's documentary, you know, an HBO,
I guess a couple of months ago, and I was like, shit, I'm turning into Barry Gibb,
like slowly, but surely over the course of this. So what's, what's work been like during this past
year? You know, so last year we did a documentary for HBO called 537 votes for the 20th anniversary
of the Florida recount in the 2000 Bush v Gore election, which turned into quite the, quite the
farce, especially down here in Miami Dade. It's a presidential election that came down
to 537 votes in the state of Florida for people too young to remember, but it was crazy. It was
like classic Florida fuckery. It was really almost the dawn of the Florida man, like shtick or genre
of news, you know, or just like anything that can go wrong does go wrong in Florida. And many times
it has like national and international implications. You know, it was after that that they just, you
know, a year later that, you know, the, the 9 11 terrorists were like took flight training and
were chilling in, in Florida. And then, you know, it was like every single story seemed to have a
Florida connection after that. And people started, you know, it seemed like John Stewart sort of
invented the, you know, the Florida man concept, but we wanted to do this doc. And so we started
shooting it fortunately in 2019. I say fortunately, of course, because the fucking zombie apocalypse,
you know, started in, but now a year ago. And so we had luckily our last day of our last interview
that we had to shoot our last like official day of production. I shit you not was Thursday,
March 12 2020. And if you remember Friday, the 13th was like that was the, the day sht like shut
down last year. And so we just got it in like under the wire. And then we, we basically finished
the entirety of this documentary like this, like the way you and I are, are talking right now,
which is far from ideal. But we, I had an editor in Alabama, a story producer in LA,
motion graphics and animation in Detroit, a sound mixer in New York, a composer elsewhere in Miami.
And I was never in the same room with any of these people ever. And we, we managed to, to get it
done and premiere it in October. So it was again, far from ideal, but you know, gets the zoom gets
the job done, I guess. Does it really get a job done though? Like, are you really? Is it the same?
Because in my experience, it's not. Well, of course it's not the same. Like, you know, again,
I mean, the experience obviously is not the same, but the end product, the end result.
Listen, I'll never know, meaning that like, I finished the doc and it's there, you go to HBO
max, you could watch it. And I guess you, you tell me, can you, can you tell it was that we did it
like this with a bookshelf behind me and a red curtain behind you? Like it's again, listen,
it sucked. There's no question that it sucked. There's no question I would have much rather
have been in the room, not to mention, you know, well, you know, this is a,
this is a collaborative process. And so the more minds you can get on something in the more eyes,
you can get on something the better it becomes. And so, you know, I had two producing partners,
Alfred Spellman and David Sipkin, who I've known, I mean, collectively my entire life. Dave, I've
known since preschool. And Alfred, I've known since TV production class in middle school. And so
down here in Miami. And so like, that's a brain trust right there. You know, so like, and we don't,
despite growing up together, we do not agree on, on, well, almost anything, let alone everything.
And so when we're in the office together, you know, it's, it's a, it's a creatively
invigorating environment. And so I'm with you in that not being there in the office and being
able to kind of yell ideas, you know, across the, the room to each other, I think definitely was,
it certainly didn't make for a better product. If it, if it diminished the product, I'm not,
like I said, I'm not sure I'll never, I'll never fully, I'll never know how much better it could
have been. I'll put it to you that way. Right. What's the name? How do you pronounce the name of
your production company? It's a raconteur. Raconteur. It's, yeah, we spell it phonetically,
R-A-K-O-N-T-U-R, but it's, it's a French word spelled R-A-C-O-N-T-E-U-R. And that means one who
tells stories with skill. Oh, I like that. So I wanted to ask you, I mean, to kick this thing off,
which would be the perfect way to do it, would, I wanted to ask you about, I want to dive into the
cocaine cowboys thing. So what inspired you to do that? How did that whole thing start? This
episode of the podcast is brought to you by Raid Shadow Legends. It's been brought to my attention
that a lot of people like to hate on their ads, but guess what? They got a lot of money, they got a
cool ass game, and I don't see y'all paying for this state of the art podcast studio. Shadow Legends
has millions of players and dozens of sick ass characters. When I first opened up this game,
I was truly stunned by the graphics and the artistry, and they've just introduced an entirely new
playable faction called Shadowkin. As you can see, the Shadowkin are heavily inspired by the mythos
of Medieval Japan, along with a load of Eastern Asian influences. They got ninjas, samurai, and a
whole host of mythical badasses. They've only just arrived, so get ready to meet new members as they
arrive in game. I would highly recommend Yoshi the drunkard. Raid just passed their two-year
anniversary, and this month they're releasing a new batch of epic and legendary champions,
which look pretty amazing. They're also releasing their second version of the Doom Tower, but also
two brutal looking bosses, the Celestial Griffin and the Eternal Dragon. If you want to get a huge
head start in Raid, all you gotta do is hit the link below, and you'll get a free epic champion
Jotun, 100k silver, 50 gems, and three agent shards. All this treasure will be waiting for
you here. These rewards will only be available for the next 30 days and only for new players,
so hit the link below, and I'll see you in the game, brother.
Short answer is growing up in Miami. I mean, you know, I grew up in a
predominantly Jewish, like, middle working class neighborhood, you know, single family homes. We
rode our bikes to, you know, elementary school and middle school, you know, pretty basic kind of
neighborhood. And, you know, throughout the 1970s into the 1980s, which is really when I start to
become conscious, I was born in 1978 in Fort Myers, and we moved down to North Miami Beach,
a city incidentally with beach in its name and no beach in its city limits. You know, that's the
story of Florida real estate, you know, it's all hustles and lies that came true, but we, so I've
lived in, I'm a native Floridian in a lifelong Miami, and, but you grow up in even a neighborhood
as kind of basic as the one that I grew up in. And you noticed throughout the 80s,
every other house had a new toy. These are working people, but there was a portion of driveway.
They added, you know, they added an extension or a second story to the house. Everybody had a nice
watch. None of these people were in the drug business per se, but everybody benefited from it
in some way. It was such an economic boom that it didn't matter what business you were in,
you were a jeweler, you were in real estate, you were a car, you know, you sold cars, you were,
you sold wine. I mean, like you name a sector in Miami, and it was, I'll put it to you this way,
Miami in the 1980s, the drug boom is the only successful real world example of Reagan's trickle
down economics at work. It's the only time that that actually worked, that the glut of cash coming
into the narco economy trickle down to nearly everyone. I'll tell you a funny story. The woman
who cuts my hair, she's been in that rack at a while. And she, when cooking cowboys came out,
she goes, Billy, I have to tell you this hilarious story. She said, back in the 80s, you know,
when you're leaving after your haircut, you know, give her a kiss on the cheek, you put a tip in
her pocket, right? You slide the tip in her pocket. So she would go home and she'd turn her pockets
inside out, right? And empty all, you know, the folded bills and everything. And one day she found
a little baggy with white powder in it that one of her clients had slipped in her pocket as a tip.
She says, I was so young and naive at the time, she said to a friend, she goes,
what the hell is this? And her friend said, it's worth more than gold, that it's weight in gold.
She goes, that's the best tip you could have gotten all day. And there's just, everybody has a story
like that who was in Miami in any line, whether you're a cop, a lawyer, or you were cutting
people's hair, everybody had a funny or bizarre or unfortunately violent or tragic intersection
with the drug trade. And so we kind of wanted to look back and give some perspective on our
childhoods growing up, because we didn't know, as kids, we didn't know about the drugs, but like,
I was aware of the money, like people had money. And I was wondering what the root of that was.
And it really was the narco economy. So how did you and your buddies decide, like, hey,
we're going to go do this? We're just going to, did you guys just go buy a bunch of cameras and
start filming? Or did you guys like take the traditional route and try to raise money and do
it that way? I'm going to say, do you guys just go out buy a bunch of cocaine? What did you do?
You know, listen, the more I do these drug documentaries, the more I think I'm in the
wrong line of work, you know, so the, you know, we had just done a documentary called Raw Deal,
A Question of Consent that had premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 01. And at the time,
we were the youngest filmmakers in the history of Sundance and the, and the only ones from Miami
at that time. And everybody was like, we did 60 interviews in about five or six days with press
from all over the world. It was a pretty high profile documentary. And it was our first that
we just decided on a lark to go up to Gainesville University of Florida and do from, you know,
just took off, took a leap of absence from the University of Miami and went up there
to cover the story of an exotic dancer who had been, who had claimed she had been sexually
assaulted by some fraternity men at the Delta Chi House at the UF campus in Gainesville. And so
we get to Sundance and everybody's asking us the last question of every interview was the same.
Everybody asks like, now that you've made it, right, you've made a big splash at Sundance,
are you guys going to move to New York or LA? What are you going to do? And so as obvious as it was
to them that we would move to New York or LA, it was just as obvious to us that we were going to go
back home to Miami. You know, first, that's why they call it home. It's where you go and you're
done with other shit, you know, and then second, we always had it in the back of our minds that
maybe instead of being three more schmucks peddling our wares in New York or LA, like everybody does,
that maybe we could kind of follow a path of like a Kevin Smith in New Jersey,
M. Night Shyamalan in Philly, you know, Rick Linklatter, you know, Robert Rodriguez in Austin.
I mean, you name any of the, you know, Spike Lee or Martin Scorsese in New York, filmmakers that
you accept, John Waters in Baltimore or Brarry Levinson in Baltimore, filmmakers you associate
with their geography and where they're from, because that gives you an identity. It gives
you a brand, right? You're the Miami guys, the Miami filmmakers. So we kind of wanted to do that. Now,
Raw Deal was a Florida true crime story, which was definitely our genre, but we wanted a Miami,
you know, we thought that Miami, Florida generally in Miami specifically, and you know this is just,
it's a borderline untapped resource of incredible characters and stories, and it's an, and a never
ending well. If you're done telling all the incredible past stories, which is impossible,
there's plenty more in the present and the future to come, you know, so we wanted to do that. We
wanted to tap that resource as nonfiction filmmakers and tell, you know, Florida fuckery is our
genre, and that's what we, or that's what we wanted our genre to be. That was our vision,
and that was our gamble. And so we were looking for a calling card production, right? Like what's
gonna, and we came up with this idea of city made of snow was the working title. City made of snow
was about the cocaine boom in Miami and the hypothesis that the drug trade is, and the revenue
generated from it is really what built the modern city of Miami and County of Miami-Dade. And so
we basically, we went to some friends, we did angel investors originally out of the gate, you
know, we needed just enough money to do the interviews with the people we had started to
forge relationships with who were John Roberts, who was a cocaine wholesaler at the time, Mickey
Monday, who was a cocaine smuggler and trafficker at the time, Jorge Riviala, who was a hit man for
Griselda Blanco, La Madrina, the godmother, who was in prison in the state of Florida,
some of the police officers and attorneys. So we just needed to afford to, you know, cashflow
those interviews. And we did exactly what you said. We bought cameras and just started shooting.
And then we put together a sizzle reel, which didn't really have a term. It was more just a
trailer. I don't know that we call them sizzles back then, but we cut it together and then went
out for the finishing funds, which was a struggle. But I should say this, because I kind of left
this out and you'll appreciate this. After Sundance, you know, we could get meetings with
everybody. You know, we could pitch everybody. People knew who we were and knew our company. And so
we pitched Coking Cowboys to everybody that we could, or City Made of Snow, I should say,
before we change the title. And I got to tell you, nobody understood it. Nobody thought there was
any, it was that interesting. There was any room in the marketplace. They said shit like,
yeah, haven't we already seen this in Blow or Scarface or Miami Vice? And we're like,
yeah, yeah, but this is the documentary. Like if you remember, this is like 15, over almost 20
years ago now. So the documentary business is not what it is now. It was not what it is now.
You know, like it's not the ubiquity, you know, outside of reality TV and reality competition
series. There was not every channel had docs on. You had like premium, you know, nonfiction, true
crime. That only has happened. That renaissance has only occurred really in the post Coking Cowboys
in the last 20 years. So it was just a tough sell. And as it turned out, an impossible sell.
So we realized that we were going to have to, you know, get an angel and buy the equipment and
just do it, do it indie. But, you know, I would say limitations breed creativity. And along the way,
you know, one of the things we realized was we needed a name change, a title change, because
maybe City Made of Snow was just not, maybe it was a good title for a book, but it wasn't maybe
sexy enough for a movie. And when we started working on it, we really, the aesthetic was going
to be a cocaine aesthetic. I'll put it to you that way. I conversations with everybody, with the
DP, with the editor. Eventually, of course, we got the ultimate cocaine cocaine aesthetic
composer in Yon Hammer, who did four years of Miami Vice Scores. And we just like, I wanted
to fade to, I wanted to use a dolly in the interviews, which was pretty unprecedented
at the time. I can't say with absolute confidence that we were the first to do it.
I can say that after we did it, everybody, everybody started moving the cameras during,
you know, during interviews. And I wanted to fade to white instead of black. I wanted to,
I wanted the cuts like the average feature film has about 1500 cuts over its runtime.
Cooking Cowboys has approximately 5000. You know, I wanted that synth drenched Miami Vice
Score. So like I said, we worked with Yon Hammer. It was just like, this was the whole, you know,
I wanted to shoot with as many cameras as we could afford so we could have that, you know,
though that coverage and be able to maintain that pacing. Yeah, we just, and then we went out and
shot little reenactments or little recreations of shots that we shot on every format, VHS,
Super 8, 16 millimeter, 35. We just like, we just, you know, it was like a very Oliver Stone-esque
kind of a mixed media, found footage, sort of a collage.
Yeah. How much money, what was the budget to create that? Do you remember what it cost to
make that movie? I don't in the end because like, you know, we made, we raised money kind of as we
needed to on the go, you know, on the fly. So that's an Alfred. Alfred, the way we divide up
the responsibilities in the company is I handle the creative, Alfred handles the business and Dave
lives in post-production because, you know, most of the life of a documentary is post-production.
You know, you can shoot for 10, 20, 30, 40 days, but the second you start rolling,
post-production begins. So post-production can be a year or two years or longer on a documentary.
So Dave oversees all of that because we have multiple projects going at the same time and
who the hell can keep track of all these hard drives? And, you know, that's the scariest
shit for me is that, you know, we started, I mean, I was shooting on Super 8 film in film school at
UM and then we transitioned into Media 100s and Avids and then eventually Final Cut Pro and
and we, it was, everything was, you know, tactile. It was like, it was physical film.
It was physical tapes, right? We're like, here, here's the thing. This is my movie right here.
You know, it's on this tape or usually dozens of tapes. But the point is, is that when we went
to like cards and hard drives, man, to this day, it makes me a little nauseous because like,
the fact that your footage like doesn't exist, it's all just zeros and ones on a thing that could
just, I mean, melt on the table or just break down. Like it's, it's like, it's scary because like,
you work your ass off on this stuff and it like, it never really, there's no kind of physical
manifestation of it at any point. It's all just, you know, and, and that really came into,
into full view last year when it never really existed. It was always just us kind of communicating
like this and then, and then hard drives, we'd ship and then we'd wipe and it's, I don't know,
it's fucking, I don't know, it's scary to me that this content doesn't exist anywhere physically.
Yeah, yeah, it is. Where'd you go to film school? Miami?
Well, I didn't go to film school per se. We had a film department in Miami, okay,
which is a pretty significant difference. I mean, you look at FSU's film school
and it's outstanding. It's like a conservatory. It's a real school. It's not just a department
within another school. Film was just a department within the School of Communication
at the University of Miami. So I triple majored at UM in political science,
screenwriting, because you had to pick a track, you know, was it production, business, or screenwriting.
So I choose screenwriting because I will tell you, the best directing class I ever took,
the best editing class I ever took, the best cinematography class I ever took,
were my screenwriting courses, because the second you learn the parameters of storytelling
and learn the rules so that you can hopefully break them some day and invent your own,
that all happened for me in screenwriting. And then I sort of self-taught a lot of the other
stuff, including editing, because like, again, as soon as you understand the format and the
tricks of the trade and the rules of storytelling, you know, you're on your way.
That's interesting. I mean, that's amazing. It's rare, I feel like, to find people that
went through traditional college that have found success on your level in their field.
The only other guy I know, or one of the few other people I know that have gone through that
route and got like their degree in the film world is my friend Rob, who graduated from UCF in Orlando.
Yeah. He went to the film school there and he'd made the Blair Witch project.
The first one. And that was like a crazy hit, made a ton of money, and, you know, he was,
that was, I think, his first project right out of film school.
Well, I'll tell you the truth. We became successful when we took a leave of absence from school.
I mean, let me be perfectly honest. So it wasn't so much what we learned in school
as it was our entrepreneurial and independence spirit. As it certainly, I'd have to think the case
with Rob. I mean, they broke every single rule on the Blair Witch project, like every single rule.
You cannot name a rule or something that they would teach you in film school that they did not
break with the Blair Witch project. There is nothing traditional about that, whether it's
the story structure, the format, the, I mean, like the performance, if you name it, it completely,
it was the, you know, I had an interesting class at UM about film genres and they taught us the
cycle of a film, of a film genre. And at the end of it is like satire or parody and then
reinvention. And what was interesting about that is the example that I needed to write a paper,
I think, and the example I used was the horror genre and the way that Wes Craven, who kind of
helped invent the, at that time, the modern horror film genre, came back and killed it with screen.
Like he's like, I'm going to make fun of all of the conventions. We're going to parody it. We're
going to, you know, satire and like, you know, the way the movie airplane killed the disaster
movie genre of the 70s, which were ubiquitous, but then airplane put a stake in its heart. And
Scream kind of did, he kind of said, yeah, it became its own franchise, but it did it by ruining
the, not ruining, you know what I mean, burning it down basically, you know, saying like,
these are the conventions we're going to call ourselves out, virtually break down the fourth
wall here. And then what happened? It's over. You can't go and just make another one of those
teeny bopper slasher films after Scream, because we all know that we all know it's a joke. We know
the conventions. So Blair Witch says, we're going to reinvent the whole fucking thing. And that's
what they did. They revived that genre. And what happened? The found footed genre became a thing
of paranormal activity. But then you started to, it started to come back again into the more
traditional stylized horror movies, which had basically been killed. The cycle begins again.
And it's funny, that's what we did. We talked about our movie screwball. That's what I wanted to
do with the sports documentary genre. I wanted to do what Wes Craven did, you know, with our,
I wanted to like kill it dead, you know, like, because it kind of peaked with OJ, right? I mean,
you know, Made in America is like a masterpiece. And it's kind of like, how do you keep making 30
for 30s after that? That's the mic drop. I mean, it's the first documentary to become an egot.
I don't know how it wanted Tony, but if want to fucking, I don't know, like it's, it just
want everything. So it's like, we wanted to kind of put a, put a stake in the, in the heart of the
sports, the traditional sports doc. So we could start it all over again, you know,
you did a ton of 30 for 30s, right? A ton. And we did the you, the you part two broke.
And then we did a 30 for 30 short called a collision course, the murder of Dara,
of Don Aranao, the speedboat guy who was murdered down here in Miami back in the 80s.
But so what's that three and a half? We made like three and a half. That's a ton. I'd qualify that
as a ton. Thanks. Are you working on some, something with a WWE now or? Well, we did,
we produced one of these, these A&E biographies that are premiering. I think they're premiering
like soon, right? Yeah, like in the next couple of weeks or so, we did the one on the ultimate
Florida man, macho man, Randy Savage, which by the way, that could have been his name. Florida
man, Randy Savage would have been a name. He's not from down here, but he very much became
the consummate Florida man. And so we produced executive produce the Randy Savage,
a, I don't know how the branding it, but like A&E, WWE biography, kind of a 30 for 30 of WWE
superstars. Did you, his, the tree, his memorial of the tree he wrecked into and when he died is like
five minutes on the road from where I am right now. Oh no shit. Yeah. I've had his brother on this
podcast. Oh, he's a character, man. We went to, so I was not far from you a couple of years ago
when we shot that, I guess in 2019 ish. He, we went to his place and interview Lonnie there.
And then went to, we went to the, of course, film B roll at the tree. I mean, I think, you know,
he wrecked into it, but I think he was probably dead before he, before he hit the tree.
Oh, I thought he died in the hospital afterwards. I mean, he, I guess my point is I don't think
it was the accident, the crash rather that killed him. I think he, he was having a medical episode.
Oh, he was, yeah. So they jump the median and they were driving into oncoming traffic and,
and Randy's widow, Lynn, to her credit, I mean, quick thinking in the moment while Randy's kind
of, I guess, seizing up or whatever, she realized like we could kill someone driving into oncoming
traffic. She turned the wheel into the tree in front of the church basically to stop them from
God forbid taking anybody else out. But I, but Randy was already in, you know, in the midst of a
a medical, you know, episode, you know, when they jump the curve and, you know, the median rather
and went into oncoming traffic. Yeah. Oh my God, man. I watched the, the, the dark side of the ring
thing that Vice did on it. Yeah. That was fucking stunning, man. To hear about just like, like, all,
like the, the relationship between him and Hulk was insane. Just like all the jealousy,
all the, you know, when they would travel and, and, you know, all the fights he would get in with,
and how he'd be so jealous of his fiancee, when she would go hang out with Hulk and his wife and
man, that was he. So we, we interviewed Terry in St. Pete actually for, you know,
I love Tampa. Tampa is the Florida of Florida. It is. It's real Florida. Miami is not Florida,
by the way. Miami is nothing like any other place in Florida. Miami and Key West are
outlawed. They're like different countries. Absolutely. Yeah. And, and they, you know,
you know, they say in Florida, the further north you go, the further south you are.
Oh yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. But I like Tampa a lot. And the, so I get to spend a lot of time
there obviously. Well, I mean, listen, I think wrestling is the, my friend, Mike Lauren says,
wrestling is the Florida of sports, you know, and Tampa is the Florida of Florida. So it's only
appropriate that, you know, wrestling has such a profound presence, you know, in and around
Tampa and St. Pete. And so we, I think we tried to bring a little bit of that Florida flavor and
that Tampa, you know, Bay Area flavor to the dock. And I hopefully you'll see it in a couple of,
you know, a couple of the pods. But interestingly, oh, yeah, we talked to Michael who was
Hulk's costume designer back when Hulk was in a band in Tampa, you know, when he was a kid.
And then he went on to do Jimi Hendrix. All the iconic, whether it was like the cover of
magazines or Woodstock, he dressed Jimi Hendrix. He dressed a bunch of like
rock and soul acts. He dressed all the pimps of Tampa. Back in here. What is it? Yeah, he does.
Yeah. Back in the 70s and 80s, he'd be a great interview for you. 70s and 80s did all the pimps
of Tampa. And I said to him, I said, like, I said, looking at Randy Savage's costumes, I'm like,
it's kind of like cowboy pimp, right? I mean, like a lot and he had never thought of it because he
just, you get inspiration and you try different things on someone to see how it fits and how it,
you know, reflects the persona. And he's like, yeah, you just kind of cowboy pimp is kind of the
look of it, you know, and of course the pimps of Tampa influenced Randy Savage's famous
wardrobe. So we get into that, which is probably kind of new information. But what's interesting
is that the relationship between, you know, Terry and Linda and Randy and Elizabeth all come to a
head and are completely really disintegrate in Miami. And it happened. Oh, yeah, they were on
vacation down here, down there. Hulk was shooting Mr. Nanny, the movie Mr. Nanny. And he was shooting
nights. And so Linda came with the kids. They stayed at this condo hotel called the Jockey Club
in like the North Miami area. And she invited Linda, Hulk Hogan's wife, invited ex-wife now,
but at the time, invites Miss Elizabeth to come down with them to chill. Like, you know,
you know, you can, you can cry. We have plenty of, we have big apartment, plenty of rooms,
you can crash with us, help me watch the kids. And so she does. Now, what Linda and Hulk didn't know
was that Randy and Elizabeth, Miss Elizabeth were on the outs and that Elizabeth was actually
leaving Randy or running away from Randy. And so, and Randy doesn't know this. And so they come down
and they're at the Jockey Club. Terry tells this whole story himself in his own words in the dock.
And he's coming home from set shooting nights in the morning. And he's noticing that Miss Elizabeth's
bedroom is empty. And he's like, where is Miss Elizabeth? And he says to Linda, he goes,
if she's out playing around or whatever, he said, I don't want to get into it with Randy.
We need to get her her own hotel room. She can do her own, you know, her own thing. Like, I can't
be responsible for whatever is going on. So they get her a hotel room in the building, her own
hotel room. And within days, Randy is banging cop back the cop bang, you know, the, you know,
that that FBI is six a.m. on the door back, you know, banging up. Yeah. And we're good. That's
pretty good. And so and Terry, Terry answers the door in his in his in his towel. And he is
on a rampage, Randy. And he says, Listen, brother, he's not she, you know, she's not here. She's
got her own room. I don't know. They go down and apparently she's in there with the tennis pro
from the jockey club, which has a whole bunch of like professional tennis courts. And because Miami
in the 80s or the early 90s, in the early 90s, they say, and up ton of cops show up. It is an
absolute. I mean, he's ripping the the room apart allegedly. And it's just as fucking. And that was
the big not only the beginning of the end of their marriage, Miss Elizabeth and Randy, but the
beginning of the end of the Hulk and and Randy friendship. That's incredible that the real life
bled into the theatrics of the actual what happens in the ring and the whole storyline of it.
You always wonder how real it is. What's that? The Roids probably don't help. No,
hell no. That makes you so fucking aggro. But so wait, was Elizabeth in the room with the tennis
player when Randy came in? That's I think that's what Terry told us. That's that's that's his story.
And he's sticking to it. But I do know I know because my family lived there at the at another
building at the time, they remember the scene like the police start, you know, it's not often that
like a line of cops, you know, a parade of cops show up to this to this condo development. And so
like it was it was a memorable event for people who lived in and around there.
Yeah, man, I just gotta be like having that level of fame and having that much money.
I mean, I don't know how old they were at the time. They had to have been what in their 30s,
maybe later. Yeah, well, she was a lot younger, Miss Elizabeth. But like,
I feel like it's always weird thinking I'm sure that this is something that you understand pretty
well was dealing with, you know, doing all these pieces on athletes and stuff like that. But
when you acquire that much money and fame at such a young age, it's harder to process real life
drama or or relationships or friendships because you don't have real life experience,
you just have the experience of being a celebrity living in your own bubble, everyone saying yes to
you. You get this I call it Superman syndrome, like you get it when you you grow up and people
are telling you how great you are and how good you are at something and you achieve, you know,
some modicum of or some significant fame and financial success. It definitely fucks with your
head. And actually, and especially for wrestlers who live in such a an action figure world,
where they are literally action figures, and then they spend the rest of their lives trying to
continue to look like their action figure, you know, physically and aesthetically and everything.
It's hard when you're kind of out of the spotlight. And that's a lot of Randy's story when he gets kind
of pushed out of the ring at WWE and winds up, you know, going across town, so to speak, working
for the competition. That was that was hard for him, you know, go, you know, buying up all the
just for men at Walgreens to keep his hair and his, you know, his beard, well, there was no hair,
but to keep to keep his beard dark and just like it's a really interesting struggle that that
athletes and especially sports entertainment, because like it's it's so much about the aesthetics
and the look, you know, and maintaining that physique and everything. It's hard, I think,
psychologically to be kind of to feel like you're being put out to pastor that your action figure
is being dumped in the trash can, so to speak. It's, you know, and it's hard. I call that spotlight
syndrome because you go from Superman to being out of the spotlight, and you don't know how to
process a lot. You know, we made a documentary 30 for 30 called broke about in part that phenomenon
that like when you when your professional sports career is over, which for most athletes is in
their 20s, maybe if they're lucky, they're 30s, or if you're a baseball player, your 40s, maybe.
But like, I mean, the NFL, the average career is like 3.3 years. And they have the lowest
average salaries. They have the highest rate of career ending injuries. And when you're out,
suddenly, maybe you're at home with a wife and kids, you don't really know that well or how well
you get along with them. You don't have the team doctor to take care of you anymore, you may start
self medicating, you know, with prescription or recreational drugs, and you don't have that
health coverage, you don't have that access to those those resources anymore, and you are not
bringing in, you're not generating the revenue you were generating just a short time ago, and you
will never generate odds are that amount of revenue ever again in your life. It's a tough,
it's a tough axe to bear. Randy was notoriously thrifty, though, which he apparently learned from
his father, who was known professionally as the miser in wrestling. I mean, like gambling,
he was a gambler, like he's a car shark. He like had the first dollar he ever made,
like cheap, cheap, cheap people used to make fun of him. And so I think he was, Randy was kind of
smart with his money, not so much because he was because the secret to being successful, I think,
or generating money is you don't spend the money while you're making the money. You save the money
for when you can't make the money for whatever reason, you can't make that money anymore, because
usually that kind of largesse doesn't last forever, you know. So the secret is hold on to it, live
modestly. Or what was the line Bart Scott told me that Steve Beshear taught him, he said you can
live like a king for a day or live like a prince forever. So if you can find a comfortable lifestyle
that you can maintain with the money you're generating during your peak, you know, revenue
generating years and you can be set for life. If you start, you know, balling and spending
like a baller, you know, you're going to, you're going to find a way even with $50 million or $200
million, you'll find a way to live paycheck to paycheck and maybe get yourself in debt, as a lot
of these guys do. And with a lot of these slimy money managers and finance people that exist out
here that just make a living off, off ripping off athletes that are making a lot of money too,
it just makes it 10 times harder. But enough about Florida. Even parents. Yeah. Yeah. No, no,
everybody, you listen, nobody knows how much money you and I make. It doesn't get published in the
fucking newspaper. These guys, their salaries are online. I mean, the sports pages are filled with,
you know, just as many dollar signs as they are statistics, you know, like, you know,
like people are interested in that. Can you imagine if you work in an office,
if anybody works in an office anymore, where everybody knows how much money everybody else
is making, how tense, you know, that would be, that's what, that's what sports is like. It's,
it's, it's intense. And so what does that do? That puts a target on your back from everybody
on the outside. And everybody's there with their handout or to take advantage of you. I know a guy
who is a, so the NFL PA on the players association, the union has a list of what they call like
certified financial advisors. And really all that means is you gave the union like shoe grand,
they did a background check, cursory background check on you, and they put your, excuse me,
your name on their, on their website. Problem is the players who go there looking for financial
advisors think that these guys are somehow approved, you know, by the union. That's not the case. So I
know a guy who went to a mixer, a cocktail hour in a city, not in Florida, but it was, I think
was in Texas and he, it was a mixer for NFL PA certified financial advisors kind of meet, greet,
trade notes, talk about clients. He said every single person almost to a man and woman in that
cocktail power, all they were talking about is how dumb their clients are and how to take advantage
of them. Okay. And he said, I left that room, I took my name off the off the website, because I,
and I never looked at guys, I never wanted to be associated with any of those people. Again,
they were basically, he felt like just a room full of predators, you know, trying to take advantage
of these guys. Here's the thing about athletes. There is a misconception that they are stupid.
They are not stupid. They are smart about what they're smart about, like all of us, right? We
know what we know. And we, we maybe, if we're lucky, we know what we don't know, but many of us
don't know what we don't know. And that's the problem. Listen, you go try to learn a playbook
in the NFL and then go execute that in 3D while a bunch of guys are coming out to try to murder
you. All right. Like you have to have a little bit of smarts to figure that out. They don't know
financial, they're not financially literate. That's not their fault. Most Americans out of college
aren't financially literate and let's be real. When these guys are in college,
no one is telling them that their priority needs to be on financial literacy. They're saying,
you know, take underwater basket weaving and go learn the playbook is what their, you know,
is what their priorities are. So, you know, and they're telling them they're good at this one thing
and they focus on that one thing, but, and that becomes a problem when they discover that they
have to pay their taxes, which they, you know, they don't know anything about. And it's, you know,
I think that's why broke as a 30 for 30 really hit the zeitgeist at that moment. You had LeBron
and D Wade and Michael Vick and Magic Johnson tweeting like everybody needs to turn this on
right now because it was, I think the, to this day, the only 30 for 30, that was like a call to
action where you could say, oh, shit, this is a real problem happening every day. And the most
heartening thing about it was obviously it's cool to have LeBron tweeting about your movie,
but even cooler or that's pretty dope athletes who were tweeting about it because they were like,
my favorite tweet is like, I'm not going to be in broke part two. Like they took pride in like
smart is the new stupid. As far as spending money was concerned, you know, like, I don't
need to go buy a $5,000 suit. I'm going to put that away for my kids for college, you know, or,
you know, so, and I think that that was, that was not to say that people aren't still going
broke, but I think a lot of, it was like a scared straight thing. You know, it was like a lot of
people woke up to the reality that this isn't going to last forever and they need to set themselves
up for their futures. Right. The Antonio Brown story really resonates well with me because
he was like recently, if people aren't familiar with him, he was, he's now wide receiver for the
Bucks. Well, he's unsigned right now, but he played for the Bucks last year and he was with
the Steelers before that. And he had this crazy mental breakdown at the end of his career with
after playing with the Steelers, he was drafted by the Steelers. He was like the number one receiver
in the NFL. And then a bunch of jealousy and ego clashes happened on the team and he had a big
falling out, bunch of Twitter fights and everyone hated him. Then there was like this like threats
of abuse of people saying that he raped a girl, one of his trainers. And then he just like his
whole life sort of like spiraled out of control. And I think he lives in Miami.
Because now he's certainly in Florida. And everybody, everybody was throwing in their
two cents on how much of an idiot he is, how he doesn't know respect, how, you know, this,
that and the third. And the way the thing that they're not seeing is that this guy is a kid.
He's like, I don't know how old he was at the time. He was like 28 years old, 27 years old.
The dude had tens of millions of dollars. He was making like, I think I could be wrong,
but $30 million a year. He's one of the highest paid receivers. And since he was a kid, 10 years
old, probably younger than that in Miami, all he knew was playing football from 10 years old
to now 28 years old. And somewhere in that timeframe, he made tens of millions of dollars.
The kid has no experience in the real world. All he knows is working out training and playing
football games. How can you expect this kid to have some sort of moral compass? You know what
I mean? Or for the most part, all NFL players, like I experienced with people like my extended
family and people I know around here, everyone loves to get riled up about how can they take
a knee? How dare them do that and disrespect the flag in our country when like, dude, like
these people, first of all, take politics out of it. I don't expect any of those people to
know anything about American history. They grow up playing football. Like that's their job.
And for you now to like impose all these morals on them, just because they're pro football players
and they've been super successful and earned all this money, it's just so hypocritical and bizarre.
I'm trying to go back in my head and count all the cans of worms you just opened.
Sorry.
Over the last 90 seconds, dude, there's just, there's worms crawling every...
That wasn't a very well formulated thought, I apologize.
No, no, it was a lot of well formulated thoughts, but I will say that, listen,
there's no excuse for abuse. If Antonio Brown, if there are victims of this man,
like that needs to be investigated and vetted and figured out and people have to,
and there has to be consequences for that. I think a lot of people get through traumatic
childhoods and success without resorting to abuse. So, I don't know enough about that to
pass judgment on him, but that's the reality. There's no excuse for abuse. And the reality
is though you are correct in that when you experience a sudden wealth event,
it is an extremely disorienting experience. And that's not just for professional athletes,
you hear about lottery winners who go crazy and or broke or people who... In most cases,
even inherited wealth does not survive past the second generation, much past, if at all,
past the second generation. It's because the people who experience sudden wealth events
don't know how to deal with it, either financially, emotionally, psychologically.
We talked about having the target on your back. It can be an extremely soul-crushing
and traumatizing experience. We all say, oh, boo-hoo, these millionaires or whatever,
but until you walk a mile in another person's shoes, it's tough to be empathetic. And I'll
tell you, I know more than one guy, a more than one professional athlete, some of whom said it
on camera, some of whom said it off camera, that they love being bankrupt. They said,
the phone doesn't ring anymore. I can relax. I'm not paying all these bills that I don't even know
who they're for or what they're for. Once people think you're broke or you file for bankruptcy,
which doesn't necessarily mean you're broke, but you're looking for bankruptcy protection
because of your debts, they just think, I know one professional football player who took his
last $10 million or something and made a kamikaze investment. They made the least
liquid investment they could possibly make. Pardon me, they didn't lose the money,
but they put it someplace where they basically knew it's going to be inaccessible for 20 years.
And they did it on purpose. They did it so that their family and their friends and
unscrupulous business people would stop praying on them and so they could have a moment's peace.
Again, none of us have had that kind of money, so we don't understand what it's like to have to
deal with that. But people who come from nothing and suddenly have it all, it's a real shock.
It can be a real shock to the system and there is little to no training. The players associations
and unions have some classes or whatever. The agents can be helpful. Some of them aren't so
helpful. Colleges don't seem to give a shit even though they know that a subset and it's a small
subset, but a tiny percentage of this population of student athletes are going to go on to
experience great wealth and success and they don't really effectively. While they're exploiting
their unpaid labor, they don't really effectively prepare them for a future of financial largesse.
And so that's that. And if you want to get into the anthem thing, we could get into the anthem thing.
But I don't know which cans of words. Sorry. There's so many cans flopping around,
janking around on my head right now. I don't even know which one to open.
But listen, I will say that I think it's not surprising to learn that a great deal of
the members of a volunteer military come from low-income families. We have a place where a lot
of low-income people are protecting the rest of the country in the military. So I think you'd
be surprised. I think a lot of professional athletes because many of them come from financially
struggling families or backgrounds or communities. I think a lot of them have connections to
people in law enforcement or to people in the military, amongst their family and friends.
So I think that there is a genuine, if not respect, certainly understanding or empathy there.
I also think that, again, if you look at the intent and Colin Kaepernick's intent,
he consulted with a friend in the military to say, what is the most respectful way
to silently and peacefully protest? Because I think that's become the thing.
There's no more patriotic expression than speaking truth to power and protesting your
government as protected under the First Amendment of our Constitution. There's nothing more patriotic
than that. That is what the military is fighting for, to preserve and protect the Constitution
and our way of life. And that is embodied in the ability of the people. I don't care what your
ideology is, the ability of the people to peacefully protest the actions of our government.
And if you're concerned about the Second Amendment and being able to defend your home from the tyranny
of a big government, then you certainly need to protect the First Amendment and the freedom
of the press. Because, by the way, if you look in the Constitution, the word police never appears,
but the press does. That is a constitutionally protected occupation. You have to respect the
ability of people to not just own guns to protect themselves from the tyranny of their government,
but to respect and defend the ability of people to peacefully protest against the tyranny of their
own government. And when you see, I think this is an issue that should really unite the left and
the right. When you see law enforcement officers sworn to protect and defend, participating on
video and extrajudicial killings. When you talk about due process, that is not due process.
Police officers are not judge, jury, and executioner. That shouldn't work for anybody. I don't care
what color you are, what ideology. That's not how it should work. And if you don't know the
difference between a gun and a taser, you probably shouldn't be a law enforcement officer.
Right. Yeah, I mean, I don't really want to get, the whole issue with cops killing people is just
like, it's such a difficult conversation for me to have. I feel like I have it all the time,
or just with people I know. I also feel like it's an easy conversation to have. And my confusion
is how difficult it is. Because again, conservatives and liberals alike should be able to come
together on the fact that we don't want the government to have agents with the power to
deprive us of life, liberty, and property without any due process, without any accountability,
without any, I think that should be, you want to talk about big government versus small government
and government tyranny. It does not get any more tyrannical than local law enforcement
turning on its own people. How about local law enforcement turning on our military?
That man who was on his way from work, that lieutenant who was on his way from work at a
military base, who was attacked, who was assaulted, battered, and tasered, and I'm sorry, pepper
sprayed by police officers for crying out loud in his military uniform for crying out loud. I mean,
where is the respect for a military? You want to take a knee now to protest police abuse of
of predominantly people of color, not entirely people of color, but predominantly and disproportionately,
most importantly, people of color. You see all these videos with white armed white people,
people who drive their car with police officers holding on to the door of the hood, who wind
up being taken into custody peacefully. I'm not suggesting that those people should be shot and
white people should be shot and killed by police, but why is it disproportionately,
does that occur in the case of people of color? Listen, you and I are white men in America having
this conversation. We kind of won the genetic lottery. We have a lot of, when people look at you,
they're making judgment calls about you. You could be a white man with a shaved head and
tattoos on your neck. People are judging you. You could be Asian. The first thing people see
is what you look like, what color, what pigmentation your skin are, what shape your eyes or your face
might be, and they're judging you based on that. What's the song in Avenue Q? Everyone's a little
bit racist. It's because to be honest, it's the first thing we see. And so we certainly, anybody
says, I don't see color, or unless you're colorblind, we all see color and we all make certain,
we have preconceived notions about people for better or worse, probably for worse based on that.
And so it definitely, at least subconsciously, impacts the way we interact and treat people.
And if people aren't willing to admit that, I think that that's just bizarre to me. It's surreal.
Well, I feel like the biggest comparison I can make is just to Navy SEALs. Navy SEALs,
when you want to be a Navy SEAL, you have to go through buds. You have to spend all these years
going through this grueling training that if it doesn't break you or doesn't kill you,
then you can be a Navy SEAL. The opposite of that is a prison guard. If you're tired of working at
7-Eleven, it doesn't take much work to go be a prison guard. You could be a security guard for
a week at a club, and it won't be, it's not a very hard process to become a prison guard. I talked
to a lot of prisoners on this show, ex-prisoners, and they talk about the people that are prison
guards. They hate their lives. They hate their jobs. They're miserable doing what they do.
There's no prison guard in this country that thoroughly loves their job and is passionate
about being a prison guard. I think the next step above that is probably, by and large, a cop.
And there just has to be, I don't know, I don't know what the answer is, but I feel like there
just has to be a lot more that goes into being a cop, someone who has the power to end somebody's
life or somebody has the power to decide whether you live and die. Listen, prison guards, that is a
tough, shitty job. Oh, yeah. And somebody's got to do it, you know, and it's just, it's extremely
dangerous. It's extremely stressful. I don't think they're, I think it's probably far more dangerous
than being a police officer on the street, just statistic. I mean, like, you are,
oh, I think so. I mean, being a police officer isn't even one of the top 10 or 20 most dangerous
jobs in America. I mean, window washers are much higher up on that list of deadly jobs.
I think construction workers are too. But as far as sheer stress is concerned, I mean,
being in a prison, being essentially locked in a prison with potentially violent criminals,
I just can't imagine, if not more dangerous, certainly a more stressful environment, psychologically
stressful. And I think probably, I don't know what the average salaries are, but I think
law enforcement officers are probably better compensated also than prison guards. And prison
guards should probably get hazard pay, you know, for a gig like that. And to your point, perhaps
more thorough training and psychological training as well. I think that like, you know, to open up
another can of worms, I think PTSD is probably one of the most ubiquitous but rarely diagnosed
maladies, probably in the history of the world. You know, people don't want to admit
that they are suffering from what they perceive as sort of a mental deficiency or a mental,
but like a lot, you know, a lot of people suffer from it, sometimes from what we might
consider minor incidents. But can you imagine, you know, what some prison guards and police
officers see, what some trauma surgeons see every day? I mean, like, there's probably a
lot of people out there suffering, veterans, certainly, I mean, what they, you know, what they
see, and who just suffer in silence and self-medicate. And I mean, look at the suicide rate of veterans.
I mean, it's just, it feels like something that, if not fixable, is at least treatable.
And we need to do better, I think, at that for people who are in truly dangerous and
traumatic jobs like these. Yeah, and I think the media makes it worse too,
because the media just kind of like puts it out there, puts its own spin on it, puts a clickbait
headline on it, and just tries to create outrage and clicks. You know what I mean? It's just,
it's like- I think we're all guilty of that. Oh yeah, I'm definitely guilty of that.
I think you've heard enough. If we're, you listen, we didn't, you know, we didn't make,
we didn't, you know, we didn't invent the game, you know, we're just playing, you know, like,
if we're in a click-based world, it becomes, does it feel a little exploitative? Does it feel like
it's not healing divisions in this country? A guilty is charged. I think it's fair to say.
You know, extreme partisanship is good for business, but not good for the country. I think
we can probably all agree on that. By good for business, I mean almost all businesses.
I'm talking about the political fundraising business, right? You know, the lobbying business,
the political ad business, which of course goes to the social media business, because that's all
ad, you know, an ad revenue-generated business model, whether it's the media business, the podcast
business, there's a lot of, there's a lot of, there's a lot more attention and clicks and money
and potential revenue in, in the extremes and in the partisanship than there is in the, you know,
no one's going to see us talk singing, you know, kumbaya for two hours on this podcast. They're
going to see us, you know, try to debate big ideas from, from, you know, from different sides of things.
Did you see the latest shit with Kevin Durant and Michael Rappaport?
How it blew up. Like the DMs? Yeah, he exposed his DMs and he was talking, Michael Rappaport's like,
go help the kids in Brownsville, you piece of shit. And, and then all the talks, the sports talk shows,
like Undisputed and all them, they're all talking about it, even had Michael Rappaport on there.
And Michael Rappaport even kind of called himself out. He was just like, look, he's like, yeah,
I've been in Hollywood my whole life. I've never, he's the king of a shit talk, but he can't handle the
shit talk. Yeah. Yeah. Rappaport's a funny guy. I've been on, I've been on his podcast. We had a,
we had a really good time. Have you really? Yeah. That's hilarious, man. He's a funny motherfucker.
He's hilarious. And, and a nice guy, a smart, doesn't surprise me that he wound up calling himself
out because like, you know, you have to have a little self-awareness, you know, in this game.
And I, can we all agree that sometimes social media gets out of hand? I mean, we all agree that
sometimes, you know, we don't converse. First of all, it's no place for nuance, number one,
in 280 characters or whatever, even a thread. It's no place for nuance and think and shit escalates
quick and everybody, it becomes a game of one upsmanship rather than an opportunity to find
common ground and actually, you know, have a productive, you know, discourse or debate
on something. You know, I think that's the, I think that's problematic, you know. But good for,
good for Rappaport for just saying like, you know, for, for having some fun with it because like,
you know, there's a lot of times where I like, you know, you go for the easy yo mama joke because
you're sitting on the couch and like, who's this asshole tweeting at me about, you know, stupid
shit, you know, with the, with the, with the name and these, you know, fucking number salad
afterward, you know, like, who, you know, like, who is this, you know, but like sometimes I wish
that, you know, I would bite my fingers or be a little bit more productive and constructive,
but sometimes you can't. Sometimes people are just dicks. Yeah. Well, Rappaport, I mean, he roasts
everybody on his social media. He posts shit every single day on his Twitter and his Instagram,
roasting the shit out of people. It's hilarious. You know, that's hilarious. He's great at it. He's
great. That's a, that's a tremendous fucking talent he has. Actually, I have a theory. It's
kind of a funny way brings it back to, to Savage, but like, so I have a theory that what we've seen
over like the last 20 years with the hyper extreme partisanship, basically everything in America,
whether it's politics, whether it's major league baseball, whether it's,
I mean, you name it, podcast, Twitter, everything has become the WWE. It's all like
sports entertainment, political entertainment, social justice entertainment, whatever it is,
it's like, and some people I think are playing characters or are, you know, they have personas
that they're kind of putting out there with, I'm kind of one person. I don't have a lot of,
like sometimes I'm a little more aggressive on social, but otherwise it's just an extension
of myself. I think some people are very, are very different people than they are on, say,
Twitter, Fox news, a podcast, whatever, than they are in real life. And that's the, the WWE. What is
it about? You go on, you go on Fox news, you're cutting a promo, right? Those Democrats, you know,
like, you're, you're, you're looking for storylines and narratives. You're looking,
and what's better than the, what's better than a heel turn? What's better than, you know, when a
face, when a good guy becomes a villain or vice versa, those are some of the biggest, so some of
those are some of the best storylines in professional wrestling. So I think a lot of this has become
that storyline, you know, beef, generated hip hop, I think probably can get some credit for the,
you know, beef is good for business world when it doesn't, you know, turn into something more
violent. But like, to me, it's, it's all WWE when we made screwball, which is about Alex Rodriguez
and the biogenesis steroid scandal in Miami. I learned that quick because everybody's like,
because it ends, of course, like a rod is like ostracized, right? You go from like one of the
highest paid, the highest paid baseball player in history to like this cheater, this liar, he's,
you know, he gets this, the biggest suspension of all time loses tens of millions of dollars in
the process. And then retires and he's like, kind of back in a ceremonial position on the Yankees
mentoring young players, he's back on broadcasts, you know, do it. And like, and there he is posing
with Manfred, the, you know, the commissioner of MLB, who like tried to ostracize, I mean,
they went at it like this, you know, this, this David and Goliath or almost Goliath versus Goliath
kind of battle of the legacies with Bud Selig, the former commissioner, Rod Manfred, who actually
was Selig's right hand man who oversaw the entire investigation against Arod. It was a pretty shady
investigation, by the way. You know, well, that's the thing, you come down to Florida,
you come down to the swamp, you're going to get a little mud on you, you know, like that's just
you're all around with us, you know, a swamp creatures down here going to get some mud. But,
you know, what was interesting is that, you know, we end with like, again, their arms around each
other, like all as well. And everybody said, like, how did that happen? Like, how did, you know,
and I said, listen, I said, it's twofold. First of all, it's the new American values.
The new American who used to teach our kids honesty, integrity, the golden rule, do unto others,
right, as you'd have done unto you. Somehow it became the message we sent our kids was,
it's every man, woman and child for themselves, lie, cheat and steal, or do whatever you have
to do to get ahead. And that's like, and that seems to be the message, you know, lie, cheat and
steal. And you could be the, you know, the highest paid baseball player of all time lie,
cheat and steal. And you could be the, the commissioner of major league baseball lie,
cheat and steal. And you two kids can be president of the United States. I don't think that's a good
message for generations of youth that are growing up and will grow up now. But more importantly,
what A-Rod did was the heel turn, the face turn. He was the heel and now he was the hero. He was
the baby face, you know? And so, you know, Rob Manford is the new commissioner of baseball at
that time. The Vince McMahon of the operation, he knows, he's no dummy. He knows, you know, which
side his bread's buttered on. He says, hey, let's bring A-Rod into the fold. It'll be, if nothing
else, it'll be good television, right? It'll be a good storyline. The blogosphere will explode.
Ratings will go up and that's ultimately, that's the goal, right? Is more, more money,
more eyeballs, more money, more clicks to your point, you know? And so, I think that's what's
happened. Everything has become the WWE. Instead of, you know, instead of politics,
instead of social media, instead of even maybe journalism, it's now entertainment, right?
Sports entertainment. Now entertainment is the second word you almost have to put after everything.
So what's, what's Rappaport doing? He's a comedian for crying an actor. Like, he's not a,
you know, he's not a political commentator. He's not running for office or seeking the
public trust. He's an entertainer and all things considered, that was pretty entertaining. I need
to, I need to fill in the blank. I didn't get the end of that story with him and Durant, but
I mean, I thought what I know about it was pretty funny. Yeah, I don't know. A lot of people say
that it was, or I've heard a couple of people say that it could have been him trying to distract
everybody from the fact that he sued Barstool Sports for defamation to character because that
looked like the ultimate pussy move because, okay, so he worked for Barstool for a while
as a sports commentator and Barstool fired him and then they, and then he talks some shit about
Dave Portnoy, the guy who runs Barstool, the president of Barstool, and then Dave Portnoy,
who's like the face of Barstool Sports released a t-shirt with Rappaport's face depicted as a clown
with like a herpie on his chin and Rappaport sued Barstool for defamation of character.
So now you have the king of shit talk who roasts everybody on social media, says the worst most
foul shit about you and your mother on social media, whoever it might be, that dude has no
boundaries suing somebody for defamation character for a clown t-shirt. That didn't look good. So,
and then literally the next day is when the Kevin Durant beef drop came out.
So I thought that was pretty interesting. You didn't hear anything about the Barstool stuff?
Now that you mentioned it, I think I might have. I just didn't do a deep dive. Listen again,
sports entertainment, even the lawsuit sounds like fun. You know what I mean? I don't know,
the whole thing just plays like television or drama or comedy or tragedy, depending on,
I guess, how you look at it. What's the difference between tragedy and comedy?
Tragedy is when I trip and fall and break my face. Comedy is when you trip and fall and break your
face. So I don't know. But again, everything you just described to me sounds like the WWE.
You're totally right about that. Not everything means the WWE.
In a way, what we were talking about with the Hulk and Randy beef were kind of like
it all spills outside the ring and the line starts to blur between the kind of persona
and entertainment versus real life. How does this, how does sort of like
tweed, you know, Twitter beef, how does tweed kind of like spill out into litigation?
I don't know. Listen, it's the reason why you and I still have jobs. It's the reason why there's
podcasts. There's a lot of shit to talk about. There's a lot of shit to make documentaries about.
Well, I try to stay away from like the interpersonal drama on social media between people.
I'd stay away from that like the plague. But I don't know. It's interesting that you bring up
like someone's, you know, their internet persona or who they are online kind of like spilling over
to real life is exactly what we're talking about with WWE and Randy and Hulk. It reminds me of
Skip Bayless on Undisputed, how he's like the guy who hates LeBron. Like that dude is such a
fucking piece of shit the way he talks about LeBron. He's such a dick and it's so fucking
biased. Like no matter what it is, he's just playing, I feel like he's playing this character
of like the guy who hates LeBron and props up everybody else who competes against LeBron.
And I personally think that it could have been something that he maybe did when he was on the
ESPN and it worked and then he just leaned into it and then it just sort of like bled into his
real life and maybe it's now, maybe that's who he really is now. We were talking about Lanny,
Lanny Poffo who is Randy Savage, Macho Man's brother. And Lanny has a story that he tells,
I think it's in the doc. You know, when, first of all, we went out as far and wide as we could to
find any video we could, even an early, early, early promo with Randy's original voice, his real
voice. It was a pain in the ass, but I think we finally dug one up and it's definitely a different
voice. And what Lanny says is that when Randy, he was working on it, he came to Lanny for advice,
he was working on his voice as part of his persona to help connect. And so
when he nailed it, Lanny says very melodramatically, he said, after that moment, I never heard my
brother's real voice ever again. Really? Ever again. He was just permanently
that character in that voice. And many people say that, you know, that Randy Savage's life
outside the ring very much mirrored, you know, the drama in and around the ring, you know,
on camera, let's say. He was, you know, he was a man perpetually set to 11 on the dial, you know,
just like, you know, full steam ahead. And we interviewed Dan Soder for the documentary who
is hilarious. He's an actor, degenerate wrestling fan. And, you know, he has this great bit at the
end. I wonder if it made the final cut because it was a little edgy, you know, he talks about how
like, you know, I'll be more sensitive about it, but he does it in a very tasteful and funny way,
but it's edgy. But how like the way Randy went out was like the most macho man Randy Savage way
to go out. It was like his final, you know, his final sort of dramatic moment. And Dan uses wrestling
terms, which I'm not entirely familiar with. But, you know, it was a really interesting point that
for a man who lived full throttle, like this was like, you know, the most macho man way of like
ending a match, you know, or ending, you know, or fading out. And it's not, not untrue.
Yeah. When you're, when you're revved up to 11 like that all the time, I mean, you got to be burning
the candle at both ends. You're not going to last that long. And I think wrestling is, is a sport
kind of, I don't know if it's unique to wrestling or what the, what the, the comparative stats are
to other sports, but it is a sport that seems to have a pretty significant number of early deaths.
You know, a pretty tragic Miss Elizabeth is one. She was 40. What was he like in her early to mid 40s
when she passed? And like, you see a lot of it's wrestling seems to have a lot of those tragedies.
What kind of drugs do you think Randy was on? Like during matches, what kind of shit you think
you took? I mean, he had to be on some sort of fucking speed or cocaine or well, back into
like the nineties, late eighties nineties drug trends are cyclical. So I think that
they were into what the population was into. So I don't know that, that Randy did cocaine in the
eighties, but he lived in Florida in the eighties and was making money and was partying hard. And
like, you know, I think some of those guys have been a little more candid about their, you know,
about their drug use and abuse, but, you know, certainly, you know, I think it's not surprising
to learn that, that there were steroids, you know, involve, you know, performance enhancement drugs
involved. We get into that later on in the dock. Again, I haven't seen the final cut. So I don't
know what did or didn't make the cut after it comes out. I'm happy to, and I, if I, if I watch it,
I'm happy to tell you all this shit, whether the deleted scenes are or whatever. But, you know,
in the 90, we interviewed gorgeous George, his ex-girlfriend in the nineties, who he dated pretty
steadily after Miss Elizabeth. And they lived together, you know, in Tampa Bay area. And she
tells us that Randy's pouch belt always had ecstasy in it. And they didn't make sense. They
did a lot of in the nineties. Now, I don't, they did a lot of rolling. And she said there was at
least one occasion on WCW. I think we tried to get some footage where they were rolling on air,
like, like, for sure. And they had some pretty wild experiences. Like they would go out on the
beach in St. Pete and, and, and do ecstasy. And I'm like, it's got to be a thousand degrees,
you know, if you're, you know, like, first of all, you're out in the Florida sun. And second,
you're doing ecstasy. Or by, and she goes, yeah, we got really warm. And we went out into the water.
And there was these guys on the water who were screaming and yelling and waving at us. And we
were screaming and yelling and waving back. And then Randy got pissed because he Randy thought
these guys were like flirting with, with gorgeous George. And he got, he was always very jealous.
And so he finally said, well, fuck this. And he storms out of the water and was like, what the
fuck are you guys trying to like get my girls attention? Which is ridiculous because he's out
there with them, you know, but he was sometimes irrational. And he was rolling. Let's be real.
So, and they're like, no, dude, there was a school of sharks. That's why we all came
out of the water. And they were trying to get their attention to get the fuck out of the water
because they were swimming in a school of like, of sharks. Are we allowed to talk about your project
with George Jorge? I can't. Not at all. Yeah. No, not yet. Not yet. I'm on embargo. I'm embargoed,
dude. Sorry. Okay. We won't say anything promise. We won't say anything more. Yeah. You got a
promise me once, uh, once, uh, 100,000 people watch this, you promise me you're going to come
and do this in person when this whole pandemic thing glazes over. I might even get a haircut
if a hundred thousand people watch this. Okay. You don't need to cut the hair. The hair looks good.
Oh, God bless you. The hair looks good. You keep the hair, but you got to, you got to promise that
you come here and do one in person because you're the Florida, you're the Florida, like the Florida
filmmaker. I feel like we have like a little niche here. Like we are like the Florida man podcast.
Dude, any, any excuse I can come up and get a, uh, and get a fake Cuban sandwich in Tampa.
There's some legit Cuban food in Tampa, bro. I know. I'm just fucking around. You know, there's a,
I don't know if you're familiar with the Cuban sandwich wars between Tampa and Miami. No, I'm
not. It's the real thing. So in Tampa, you know, there, a lot of people argue about where the Cuban
sandwich was invented. Key West, Miami, Tampa, Tampa has a lot of pride in its Cuban sandwiches,
as does certainly Miami, as you can imagine. Um, but a lot of Cuban, you know, migrants and immigrants
first started to settle in the, in the Tampa area. Uh, and so in Tampa though,
they put
Genoa salami on the Cuban sandwiches. Miami, there's no, it's the Swiss cheese, the ham, the pork,
the pickles, the, the, the mustard, sometimes mayo on the toe in Tampa. It's all that plus salami.
And there's a lot of friction about the, the Cuban sandwich wars between how salami on a Cuban
sandwich. Well, that's what Tampa does, you know, because salami of course comes from famously from
Genoa Cuba. No, there's no such thing. So, you know, um, this is a, Google it,
Tampa, Miami Cuban sandwich war. It's, it's just a real, real thing. I am on the front line of that.
Have you ever been, have you ever been to Cuba? No, I haven't, regrettably. Um, but it's, you know,
it's kind of like Miami, you know, kind of. Yeah, pretty much the same thing as Miami, except it's
like, except it's been like frozen in time from what I hear from people that have been there.
Yeah, but it's what do they say about the great thing about Miami is it's so close to the United
States. I've had a lot of guys on this show who lived through the Coke, the Miami 80s, like the
cocaine wars where it was just people dying left and right, you know, more. I think what was the,
one of the crazy things about your documentary that really hit me was the amount of deaths
that were in Miami. There was a crazy statistic about the people that died in Miami during like
a certain, like that decade. Yeah, well, not only did, did, you know, homicides peak in about 82, 83
in the city of Miami, but you had an overflow of bodies. Um, and you had a Burger King whose
headquartered in Miami, uh, donated refrigerated trucks to the morgue so that they could store
literally stack dead bodies up. And in that era, uh, there was a year in the early 1980s where
upwards of 25% of the bodies in at the Dade County medical examiner's office
had wounds from automatic gunfire. So they were essentially killed by machine gunfire. 25%
of the corpses. I mean, you had created 1980 was a crazy year because you had this like perfect
storm of, um, the drug wars, the Mario boat lift, which people who've seen Scarface know what the
Mario boat lift was. And then you had, um, these riots that broke out after an all white jury
acquitted white police officers from Miami, but they, the case was in Tampa because they got a
change of, of, of venue because of the, of how high, uh, uh, the emotions were down here. They
had beaten a black motorcyclist, an insurance salesman to debt at the side of the road and
then tried to cover it up. And they were tried and, and acquitted in Tampa. Um, and, uh, Miami,
you burned, um, 18 people were killed. There was, she's like a billion dollars in damage. There,
there are some blocks. This is 1980. And there are some neighborhoods and some blocks in those
neighborhoods that have never been redeveloped since they were burned down, um, in those
demonstrations in 1980. Uh, the Arthur McDuffie was his name. Uh, they were known as the McDuffie
riots, um, or the McDuffie demonstrations. And, um, they, um, so Miami in 1980 was insane. And
you had a lot of the, uh, some of the people who came over during the Mario boat lift Castro
famously emptied his prisons and his hospitals and his mental institutions in Cuba and shipped
everyone over to Miami. It nearly bankrupted the, the four Southern counties of Florida,
Monroe, Dave, Broward and Palm Beach, because there was just no resources to, can you imagine
getting 150,000 people, many of whom needed food, shelter, medicine, the kids need school,
they, uh, healthcare. I mean, like it was an insane, uh, uh, and this all happened in less
than six months, suddenly 150,000 new people, uh, all, you know, as a burden on, on public resources.
And so, um, you know, long, long story, even longer, um, I heard, I remember I said everybody
in this town who was alive in that era has a story, you know,
have several stories, but any line of work you were in, certainly a lawyer, um, a cop, a journalist,
a gracer, but everybody. So I knew a doctor who worked as a trauma surgeon at Jackson Memorial,
which is our like ER, our big city, like trauma center. It's where all, you know, uh, we're all
major trauma, uh, cases go in the city. Um, one night he's working in the ER and he gets a,
a Mario Lito who was a Mario refugee, uh, who was in Miami beach and got into, you know,
some kind of fucking shootout over whatever. Um, and, uh, he, he was shot in a certain spot on
his body. I can't remember where, but the doctor who was bilingual, you know, said to him in Spanish,
he said, listen, you're very lucky. If that wound, if that, uh, a bullet had hit you just like
a few millimeters or centimeters over here, you would have basically, you would bled out like
right at the scene. You never would have made it to the hospital. Several days later,
another Mario refugee comes into the ER while he's working with a gunshot wound in exactly
the same spot where he told the other guy that if you get shot there, you'll die and the guy
bled out and die. He can't prove it. He doesn't know it, but he was almost positive that that was a
retaliatory, uh, you know, shooting and murder, uh, for the, for the, the previous patient, uh,
that, that he had seen. Um, I smile, it's not funny, but it's, it's fucked up, but it's like
this kind of shit happened all the time in that era. So you get a guy like George, uh, Jorge, who
just, who lived an extraordinary life. And all I will say is, um, certainly a life worth making
a documentary about. So George Valdez, who came on my podcast, I saw his story. I saw that he did
like one podcast before I had him on here and he lives in Orlando and I was a little bit skeptical
of him. I'm not going to lie when he, when I, before I met him in person, and then he pulled
up to my podcast and a fucking Rolls Royce ghost. He pulled up to my studio driving a ghost with
his son. I was like, what the fuck are like, so you stashed all your money, obviously. Like you
had money left over when he went to prison. Like, or did he like, I had, I was like, how did you
make all this back? No, I'm pretty sure like, listen, I don't know that he had no money, but
you know, uh, he was living large. And so, you know, it's like we talked about, you know,
broke kids experiencing a sudden, sudden wealth event. This kid was barely in his twenties and
he's making, you know, he's, he's making tens of millions of dollars a month for crying out loud.
So believe me, he found, I'm sure, exciting ways to squander it. And also, you know, a lot of these
guys literally buried it or gave it to friends. There was just too much cash, like literally too
physically, there was no place to put the money after a while. So a lot of it, I think he lost,
but he came out, you know, he got a master's. He's very proud of, you know, his education and he
became an entrepreneur and he, and he started some businesses and he sold some businesses legitimate,
legitimate businesses. And I think he built himself, you know, I think he felt like
I was a kid in Miami during the cocaine room. I felt that he was already like working in his
account as an accountant. I think he was working at the federal reserve bank. Like a different
path in life, you know, and he knows that now and he made a choice at the time to go for that easy
money. And a lot of it he made, but then he paid quite a dear price. Or he went to prison
three times if you include Panama, which was a horrific and torturous, literally torturous,
and traumatizing experience for him. And then went to federal prison twice in the States,
because he got out and fucked up again, you know, went right back into the, into the business.
And then he made a decision. He found God and he said, like, I clearly chose the wrong path,
because I can be rich and successful and fulfilled if I do something legitimate. I can be, you know,
in a lot of ways people were sort of guilty by geography. You have to realize that if you were
a young kid, especially a young immigrant kid coming to America with, you know, the mythology
that you grew up with, with the American dream, right? And you come to America and a bunch of
your friends and people, you know, and kids in the neighborhood are in this business and they
are rolling. That must be what you think the American dream is. You know what I mean? Like,
you're talking about athletes young and making money. Like, what do they know? What do these kids
know? They know the American dream and they see everybody around them driving Rolls Royces and
driving Porsches and driving Mercedes and they go, Oh, this is the American dream. You come to America,
you smuggle or you sell Coke or whatever. And you, you're a millionaire. That's what happens.
You know, you know, so I think that they had a warped view of it. But again, young kids,
when you're in Miami, it was Miami, we don't have any indigenous industry. You know,
most of Florida doesn't. We're a factory town. We sell the sun. We sell the Florida dream. We sell
tourism and development and real estate growth. Growth is our hustle in the state of Florida.
You know, and so that's what, you know, you see these guys do all these other kids and there was
literally pockets, you know, and subsets and subcultures within communities where everybody
you knew was in some way involved in the business. And so a lot of kids fell into that. That's not
to make excuses, but just to sort of understand the perspective in the moment. And listen, you know,
he was scared straight. George got it. Got a couple of wake up calls and, and literally found God
and converted and decided that there was a way that I can be just as successful and happy
and fulfilled doing it legitimately. And that's what I think he, that's what I think bought him
that the car you saw, not some of his earlier cars or planes, but certainly I hope the car that you
saw was was legit was legitimate. No, you're totally right. The geography thing is the right
place in the right time. If you were in South Florida, anywhere in South Florida during that
time, there's a damn good chance that you were involved in that world somehow. Like I had like
Manny Pwigg, you familiar with who Manny Pwigg is the wild boy, wild guy who does all the
fucking wrestlers, alligators and sharks. He, I had no idea, but he went to prison for some,
for being involved in that world, like smuggling some shit through Florida, like a minor thing.
But he was in prison in North Florida for a couple of years. And I had no fucking clue,
but he happened to be in living in South Florida during that time. Listen, Mickey Monday, the,
you know, the smuggler on who we interviewed for cooking cowboys, the first one, you know,
back in the, in an era when if you were making 13 grand, 15 grand a year, that was like, that was
an income. You're talking about late 70s, early 80s, right? So he'd have friends who come out,
say once a month. These are the lowest dudes on the totem pole. They're doing grunt work,
manual labor. They're helping unload packages, you know, bundles of coke off a plane, throwing it
into a car or a truck, whatever. You know, manual labor for one night a month, let's say. Maybe twice
a month if they were super busy, but let's, for the sake of the math, let's do, let's do one night
a month. He would pay those guys $5,000 cash for that one night of work. So that means that some
guy making 13 grand a year, 15 grand a year on, on the books as a tax paying citizen has an extra
$60,000 cash tax free off the books kicking around that year. And that's only if he works
one night a month. And he's not even in the drug business. This guy just came out to do
manual labor for one night. I mean, that's, that's why I said the trickle down economics that like,
that's how that, that happened. So the lowest guy in the totem pole is making like four times
his legit salary a year in cash tax free, just doing this. So like, you can imagine how much,
you know, the guys actually moving the product we're making. So my question is this, someone
comes to you and says, Hey, I'll give you five grand, your buddy of yours, come out, just help
us unload. And some of the guys did it just for fun, just to tell their, you know, their kids
someday like I was a pirate, you know what I mean? Like just for the story, but some guys did it on
the regular and they made a shit ton of money. And they did not do that right now for that amount
of money. They did not buy drugs. They did not sell drugs. They did not smuggle drugs. They just
did some math. They, they moved a, you know, they moved a bundle of this to the, and that's not to
say they wouldn't have gotten busted, but you know, you get my point in their head just to
rationalize, fuck it, I'm going to go out for one night a month. Right. Like you said, in 2021
dollars, you would, you know, you would leap at that opportunity and you would, you would rationalize
it. You'd say, I'm not in the drug business. I'm not selling drugs. I'm not buying drugs. I'm
not smuggling drugs. I'll just go out and do with some manual labor for, you know, for one night.
Oh yeah. For an extra $60,000. Again, I'm not making excuses, but I think it's hard,
you know, when you're, when you're judging somebody and their, and their lifestyle and the,
and the, and the decisions they've made in their lives, it's hard when you're not
in, in the moment, you know, I'm trying to be as vivid as I can about it to say like,
nobody was living your life or my life or anybody. They were living their own life at a really
surreal and dynamic and transitional time in a, in a unique time in an American city.
The worst part about that though is that those were the guys that were getting popped more than
anybody. Those were the guys that were getting arrested and going to prison, not the fucking guys
at the top making the billions of dollars was the pawns of the operation. They worked, they,
they worked their way to the, to the, the kingpins of that era eventually. But I, of course,
you know, that along with the war on drugs in general is a fucking myth, you know, because,
you know, we were all told that when, you know, when Pablo Escobar was killed by the DE, well,
that was it, right? We won. We won the war on drugs. It's just like, come on. Like, you know,
I mean, today, I don't know, post pandemic, but pre pandemic, you know, cocaine was,
um, I think cheaper and almost and potentially more pure than it has ever been in history. And so
really? Yeah. And so what does that tell you about like supply and demand? It means there's
ample supply, which has driven the cost down. And it's, and, uh, and it's, you know, they're not
stepping on it. I mean, I guess, depending on your dealer, they're not stepping on it as much. And,
and you can get, you know, you, you, what I'm saying is if the free market teaches us anything,
it's that it means that I don't think demand has gone down. I think it's because, uh, uh,
I think that supply has, has, uh, uh, is ample. And that is a failure of the so-called war on
drugs. I, uh, believe it or not, have never done cocaine. I've never done ecstasy. I never smoked
pot till about, I tried it, I think for the first time in 2017, when I was in Denver, Colorado,
where it's legal. And, uh, you're, you're not going to believe this or maybe you will believe
this. I just got a missed call from George Valdez while we did you really? Yeah. That's hilarious.
Yeah. But, um, so, uh, I think he also said, I don't remember, did he say,
I think he's also told me, I could be wrong, but you can verify this. He told me he's never
tried cocaine either. Yeah. Listen, a lot of, a lot of guys in the, in the sort of the, the upper
echelons of, of that world were not big users. I think a lot of them, it was a product that they
sold. It was not necessarily something that they, you know, could have been widgets, you know, like,
you know, in George's case, it started off as bananas. He was a banana importer and a banana
transporter, you know, like that was his product. So it didn't matter, um, uh, to them. They weren't
necessarily fans. They were, you know, I'm, I'm going to go out on a limb and say the CEO of
McDonald's doesn't eat McDonald's every day, you know, like, um, in fact, probably because it's
arguably deadlier than cocaine. Uh, I would, I would think, but, um, you know, uh, uh, to everyone
who is shoving McDonald's in their mouth, but won't get a vaccine. Um, what the fuck are you
putting in your body? You know, I love me. Hey, I love McDonald's coffee, bro. I drink McDonald's
coffee almost every day. They have the best coffee, dude, but I live in Miami. We have Cuban coffee
and you live in Tampa. Cuban coffee is the greatest fucking coffee full stop. That's it.
I agree. I totally agree. Um, like, I don't know how I'd be conscious right now without it.
Well, uh, going back to the cocaine thing, Adderall is the new cocaine. Everybody does
Adderall now. Well, it's been going on for a while, but that's like the new thing.
It's a performance enhancing drug. And, and, um, it's funny. Like there's a, uh,
uh, the percentage of, I think, majorly baseball players that have waivers to, to use Adderall
because there are other doctors recommendation is like disproportionate to the general
population, meaning like apparently, apparently a lot of baseball players have 80, uh, ADHD,
which by the way, watching baseball gives me ADHD. So I don't blame them. But like, but like,
what I'm saying is that like that's a performance enhancing drug, you know, like totally is, you
know, um, I mean, mental, mental performance, right? Yeah, absolutely. But, but listen, if, if
you're, if your kid doesn't get into Harvard and another kid on, on Adderall gets into Harvard,
is that cheating? Is that it's a performance enhancing drug, right? I don't know. I think
it's an interesting, I think it's an interesting, uh, uh, argument. I do know one of my favorite
onion headlines of all time was, um, Adderall receives honorary degree from Harvard law,
which really because, because how do you get through Harvard law? I guess without, without,
without bumping those addies, right? Um, well, it's interesting. Like, like, like, like saying
a lot of people that I know, especially young people that do cocaine regularly really shocked
me. It shocked me just as much the amount of people that do Adderall daily, every single day.
Like I was talking to a girl, I, uh, my wife's friend and she said she's been prescribed Adderall
since she was 12, taking it every day of her life. Right. It's fucking poison. It's a narcotic. It's
a controlled substance. Right. And to believe and, and, and, and who the fuck came up with the,
I mean, what a great, uh, propaganda sales pitch to say Adderall cures ADHD or ADHD is even a real
thing. And did they just come up with that to sell Adderall? I, first of all, part of the reason
why I never tried cocaine is not simply the illegality. Well, I think the expense was probably,
it was cost, it's cost prohibitive. I don't know how, I don't get a bunch of rich friends in Tampa
who can afford cocaine. Um, I guess it's cheaper now than it was when I, you know, when I, when I
was a kid, but like, um, you know, I also, I'm like you, like, you don't strike me as a guy who
needs cocaine. I guess nobody needs cocaine, but like I'm sort of, you know, I'm a caffeine cowboy.
That's my drug of choice. And I didn't start drinking until I was 21 years old. That's,
that's what a, a straight out of why I was. Now I've been making up for lost time, mind you, but
you know, you know, and I got to think when I tried pot, I didn't like it at all. Really? Yeah.
The first, like I kept saying, well, I kept saying like, I'd rather be drunk. I'd rather
be drunk. I'd rather, I didn't slip you a couple milligrams when you hung out with them. I didn't,
I didn't like this at all. And I remember, I remember saying, you know what I said? I was,
I said to my cousin, who was one of the first marijuana, medical marijuana entrepreneurs out
West, you know, out in Colorado, got one of the earliest licenses became, as you can imagine,
extremely successful. Um, I said to him, when I try to, I tried it with him as one of his,
you know, uh, uh, from one of his dispensaries, uh, when it went rec. Um, I said,
this will never catch on. That's what I said to him. This will never catch on. This is in 2017.
I said this, this shit will never catch. No one's going to do that. But I will tell you this,
went to Chick-fil-A and I was like, Oh, I kind of get it. Like, because that should taste good, man.
I mean, Oh yeah. Oh yeah. But I don't know. I just like what I met someone. I remember being in
New York years ago, many years ago. Um, probably about 15 or so years ago. And I was having a
conversation with a woman and I was like, what is happening? She is all over the place. And
I said it to someone. I was like, what is she okay? Like this is, they're like, oh, you know, she's,
she just went into the bathroom. She's high as fuck. And I was like, holy shit. And that's when I
realized, um, I describe it this way. I said, when, when, when people are on cocaine, they start one
sentence and they finish another. Yes. And you and I are already like, you know, I think you have
personal, like you're right. They would like have to scrape us off the roof with a fucking shovel.
If we did cocaine, like we would just, you know, we'd be like Len bias. Our faces would explode.
Like if we fucking did go, like, what would I, what would I do with that? And where would I put
that? You know, I don't even, and that scared me. Like I thought like, oh, my heart's just going to
explode out of my, out of my chest if I, if I try it. And I've never been particularly curious
about it either. And I think part of the reason is, and maybe this is part of the reason why I
only smoked in Colorado from like a legit dispensary, like down here in Miami, who the fuck knows
what they're cutting this shit with? I mean, you take ecstasy. God only knows what this, what this
anonymous person in a, you know, like you could be, you could be fucking, you got, you'd be deterged.
If you're lucky it's baby powder, but it could be detergent, fentanyl. Like it's just, there's just,
there's so much crazy shit out there. There's so many entrepreneurial hustlers who are trying to
say, you know, we're trying to, you know, maximize the, you know, their, their profits that they'll
cut anything in there. That's, that's scary to me, like not knowing like what the fuck I just
bought from some stranger in a dark club for, I don't know. Yeah, no, it's for sure. And, you know,
obviously legalizing it makes it so much more or making it illegal just makes it 10 times more
dangerous. Oh, dangerous. Not only the substance, it brings in, it brings in everything that
prohibition brings in. It brings in the criminality. It brings in the, you know, the money laundering.
It brings in, of course, yeah, like no regulation on the ingredients and so. No, there's no,
listen, there's no question about it. The only, and it's the only way also to effectively create
that many new jobs and a new multi-billion dollar industry overnight. And I think statistically
we know from as marijuana, both medical and recreational is legalized, there's no statistical
jump in the number, in the number of people who use it, meaning people who want marijuana,
who want to use marijuana are not being deterred by prohibition. They're still finding a way to
get it regardless or irregardless as we say in Miami, you know, but like, so when you legalize it,
it's not like suddenly everybody who's never done pot or doesn't rushes out to try it or do it all
that like, you know, are there going to be a few people who will say, oh, now maybe I'll try,
but they're not going to, if that's not a huge number and they don't become regular,
you know, customers or users, it just doesn't make any sense why. And again, this is sort of a,
another one of those issues that I think should really unite the left and right,
you know, the conservatives, which is like, you know, which is like, why, why does the government
care if I inhale a plant that grows out of the earth that is less dangerous than poison ivy?
What do, what does the government care about that? Legalize it, tax it, regulate it,
make it safer, create jobs, dude, I got so pissed. When I went to Colorado, I went, when I tried it,
I went to a, what do they call it cannabis cup, right? So I go and I go on a cannabis tour of
these dispensaries, the grows, I go to the event, the cannabis cup event, and I'm furious because
all of this industry, this whole industry and everything that it represents, the marijuana
industry for starters, these should all be Florida businesses. It's medicine, tourism, retail,
convention business, hotel, it's, and like, and I was angry because I'm like,
we deserve this in our economy. Like, and, and the governor, all the governors, they go to the
opening of a wah-wah with giant scissors to cut a ribbon that creates what? Listen, I love wah-wah,
but what does that create? 30 new jobs, 40 new jobs. You want to create hundreds of thousands of new
jobs and a multi-billion dollar industry with the stroke of a pen as a governor, okay? You're
full of shit if you're a small government, job creating, you know, tax cutting, there is no
better way to create jobs, create revenue, which can, by the way, reduce our taxes because you'll
be making it, you'll be getting it out of the pot, you know, then, then, then opening up Florida
with, without any of these bullshit, you know, insider, you know, trading kind of restrictions
on license, open it up legitimately, regulate it legitimately, tax it legitimately, and let's get
back to work. What is the one biggest thing that's in the way of making that happen in Florida?
Do you know? Republicans. I mean, you can't just say, I mean, Republicans in general?
Yes. I can know why I can, because the Republicans have controlled the state legislature for over 20
years. And so that's the short answer. The Democrats are all in. Are there no Republican
states that have legal marijuana? You asked, you know, you asked me about Florida. Right.
The Republicans are the problem. I mean, they can do whatever they want in the legislature.
They're busy giving tax cuts to corporations. They're not busy fixing the unemployment website,
which we all know we've spent over a hundred million dollars of our money to create a broken
unemployment website. They're not doing anything that's creating any jobs or new industry.
It's up to them. They control the state of Florida, meaning if the Republicans are on
board, shit gets done. If they're not, it doesn't. I thought I heard, I could be wrong,
but I thought I heard DeSantis wanted, was like on board to make it recreational and
something else was in the way, like some sort of lobby, you know, some sort of, I don't know what
it was. The Republican legislature can pass whatever it wants. The Democrats have zero power
in the Florida legislature. That's a fact that's been true for over 20 years. They want to pass
standard ground laws. They want to gut our chapter 119 sunshine laws to limit access to
public records that belong to us and that we pay for. They do whatever they want to pass.
They want to legalize, open up medical marijuana without the onerous, ridiculously onerous
restrictions that we, listen, we all voted. When do 60 plus percent of Floridians agree on anything
for Christ's sake? We voted to legalize marijuana. We voted to allow convicted felons
who do their time and were nonviolent to get the right to, to restore the right to vote again.
We vote on this shit. And then the Republican legislation, by the way, we can say the legislature
is the problem, but look at how they vote. The Republicans are in charge. And if they want to
open it up, they can, they can do it. I would hope that they would do it. So you'd have to ask them
what are the barriers to entry there? If DeSantis is so interested in it, if he'll sign the bill
and not veto it, then what's stopping the Republican legislature? When I say Republican
legislature, they are in control. The Democrats are irrelevant. 100 percent. They are a non-entity
in the state of Florida since Jeb Bush basically was elected governor in what, 98. So the Democrats
don't count. Their votes don't count in the Florida legislature. Okay. Like, you know, they just don't.
If you want to pass bills, you caucus with Republicans.
Those motherfucking Republicans, man. Fuck. What can we get past Republican Democrat? What can we
get past these stupid, these stupid labels that fucking have to go one. Yeah, I am. Everything's
got to be binary. It's ridiculous. It's stupid. It doesn't get anything done for if you're just a,
if you're just an American citizen, it doesn't matter if you're a Republican or a Democrat,
nothing is getting done for you because of the WWE match, because of this political theater
and this policy, which, by the way, doesn't make a lick of sense because you would not walk into
an ice cream parlor that had any less than 20 or 30 flavors to choose from. You're only going to get
one or two of them, but you were Americans. Bigger is better. We like the options, right?
Why do we accept two political parties? Why is that a thing? I like it. It makes absolutely
no sense to me. And of course, there's no better way to create partisanship than drawing one line
and say, pick a side. Like, it's just, it's gross. And most importantly, it doesn't get anything done
for any of us. But listen, they fundraise like a motherfucker. I gotta tell you. I mean, you know,
every time, every time they, the crazier shit you say, the more divisive you are, the more you
stake a claim, you know, into an extreme position, money floods into yokel races and to, you know,
local Congress people, like it floods in from all over the country or the world. If you go on TV
and say some crazy shit, it just does. My God. It's like we're sitting on a speeding bullet. We
don't know where it's going, where it's going to land. It's fucking crazy, man. Jordan answer is,
we're fucked. But yeah, but what we have to do is we have to stop. We have to start electing better
people point blank. That's not a, that's a bipartisan statement. We need to start electing
better people, which means that we need to go into our communities and find good people and
encourage them to run because usually it's the shittiest people who are running for office, you
know, and it becomes a best of the worst competition, you know, I think the silver lining
with the whole, with the internet is that that's going to help that happen. It's going to help us
be able to find, and, and you know what I mean? You could be a piece of shit and run for office
and no one knows anything about you. You can hide the skeletons in your closet, but with the internet,
not necessarily the people are going to, but that's the problem is like people love like it's,
it's like the WWE people love a villain. Their action figures, their merch sells better.
It's entertainment. Yeah. Look at Trump, man. Listen, I see just as many Decepticon logo shirts
as I do auto, auto bot shirts, you know, you know, so let, you know, people, you know, people like
the villains. And then when you get into that, that level of partisanship, you have to defend
your teeth. Listen, people all do respect to Tampa. People will defend Tom Brady
cheating or not just because you're on his team, but it's not just about winning and losing. It is
about how you play the game, especially in politics. Politics is not sports. You know, we need to judge
people. It's not just like the Republicans have got to win or the Democrats got to win.
If Democrats do bad shit, Democrats got to call them out. If Republicans do bad shit, Republicans
have to call them out. There needs to be objective truth. We all need to be able to agree on a certain
set of facts. And that's the biggest problem is this kind of post fact, alternate fact era.
Right. We all need to agree that like there's a line between right and wrong. There are things
that we can all agree are crimes or not crimes. There are things we can agree that the sky is blue
right now, or it is raining or it is not raining outside. We have to be able to agree on a certain,
but if we cannot even agree on a basic set of, of, you know, givens in this theorem, like we're
just, we're, we're totally, totally fucked. So that's the problem. Is that like, is that like,
you have to say, it doesn't matter what crimes a Republican is committed or a Democrat is committed,
I'm going to support them and completely warp my entire set of ideology, politically, morally,
ethically to defend this person because they're on my team. It's like, fuck that. No. It's not
growing them under the bus. It's saying we expect better of our people. We expect better of our
elected officials and our public officials. We expect better of our leaders. Like it doesn't
matter what party affiliation you have. You need to just, you see bullshit. You've got to call it out.
Right. Yeah. No, everybody's entitled to their own facts. It's ridiculous.
You can't, we can't function in a world like that. That's, that's impossible. You can have a
different, we can have different opinions. We can say we, we agree on the problems, but we have
different ways to, to arrive at solutions. We can't say the facts are different. We can't do that,
because then if we don't exist in these United States, if we're not at least united in a reality,
and then we can disagree and debate and vote on how to solve these issues and these challenges,
instead we just get caught up in, in the WrestleMania.
Well, I want to respect your time, Billy. We've been going for two hours. I know you
said you had a two hour cut off and tell our listeners and our viewers where they can find
all your stuff and follow you and whatnot. Yeah. Everybody who's thinking like,
I didn't realize the, the lead singer of Smashing Pumpkins had that much hair. My name is Billy
Corbin, C-O-R-B-E-N. And you can find me at Billy Corbin again, C-O-R-B-E-N on Twitter and Instagram,
cookingcowboys.com is our company rack and tours website. Yeah. I get a lot of, so
Billy Corbin actually, I don't know if he was like an early investor or early adopter to Twitter,
but he got at Billy on Twitter. So he's at Billy. And so when people start to enter, I guess at
B-I-L-L-Y-C-O-R, like looking for Billy Corbin, they don't realize that it's just at Billy. So
I, I guess it auto fills like my name in. And so I get tweets for Billy Corbin like all the time.
And like people are saying impact wrestling shit or like, on Sundays, like back when he was
involved in wrestling, I was getting funny tweets about, about that. So it's Billy Corbin
at Billy Corbin, C-O-R-B-E-N on Twitter and Instagram and cookingcowboys.com. So hit me up.
