All right, we're live. We're live. What's up, Matt Cox? Welcome back. Thank you for coming back,
and thank you for auctioning off your million-dollar piece of artwork. Go ahead,
tell everybody what we're doing today with your art. Oh yeah, we got all kinds of feedback.
What are we doing? Tell the audience today what we're doing here today,
and what's going on with your million-dollar piece of stolen artwork? What are you doing?
First of all, I mean, you know what it really is? What is it really? Really, I have like no money
coming in. I got turned down for unemployment, even though- What? Frick. Listen to this. How'd
you get turned down? I have no idea. Like, I've applied multiple times, and it's even under review.
Because here's the thing, I was doing okay, but then suddenly, like a week or two ago,
I realized I have no money coming in. Like, the next month, I'm going under, practically. So,
I have no painting jobs going right now, and I actually have one painting job. I actually
took the money for it. I haven't done the painting yet. I started the painting. I had to go to
Utah. I had to do much stuff. Anyway, so yeah, so then you called me, and I said, you said,
hey, let's do a podcast, whatever. And I was like, yeah, and you said, what do you want to do? And
I said, bro, I got to fucking paint. I got to get rid of it. I got a painting. I need to sell a
painting. That's what we're here for. So, that's what we're here for. That's what we're here to do,
ladies and gentlemen. Right. We are here for nothing else than to sell a painting and to help
out Matt Cox. Wait, and I need people to subscribe to my channel. And he needs more subscribers,
and he's more people to buy this motherfucking book. I need people to buy my book in the
housing pool. I just bought my copy. And I have, I don't even know where I'm at. And,
you know what else I have? So, that's me. Is this me? That's you. And you know what else I have?
I have merchandise. Everybody was like, you know, oh, if you get shirts and merchandise,
great. I put up merchandise a week ago. I think I've sold a shirt. And I even hit a bunch of
people up. Guys are like, bro, I totally support you. Like, you're awesome. You're amazing. You're
this. And I'm like, great. Hey, I got merchandise. You know, you want to buy a shirt for 25 bucks,
bro? Go to my thing. They're like, yeah, bro, as soon as I get paid, as soon as you get paid,
it's 25 fucking dollars, bro. I mean, honestly, if you don't come on 25 bucks,
I know these guys all got unemployment. I know guys that are making 700 bucks a week,
plus they're getting, they got the Trump check. Oh yeah. I mean, what's going on?
We're getting another one. I, you know, I paid in last year for like $400 to self-employment
for self-employment taxes. God damn. I, they turned me down. I literally worked all last year.
And they turned me down. The system's getting there. They're getting get back on you for all
that money you stole from. This is bullshit. But you know what? I guarantee you, I gotta make my
restitution payment. Did you get a Trump check? Me? Yeah. We don't have, not on camera. What? No.
Oh no, I got a Trump check. Oh, you did. Oh yeah. My probation officer knows I got a Trump check.
Oh, okay. Because she, I said, Hey, do I have to pay my restitution on the Trump check? She said,
no. Nice. Danny said, we're getting another one. I heard that. Or Bobby told you. Was it me? I
think, I don't think it was me. I did hear it. I did hear we were getting another one. Yeah,
I heard it was in July. Well, July is almost over. Almost over. I don't know when that,
so I'm not sure what's happened with that. So tell us about your painting we got here today.
Oh, what inspired that piece of fine art? See, see, see, you, you run with it. I'll bet you're
great at it. Matt, Luke, Luke, Luke, you sell it first, you sell it first, then we'll have Luke
try to sell for him. This is the Joker wearing the Joker mask in the dark night when he robs
the bank at the beginning of the movie where all the guys have the Joker mask and he's got one too.
You don't really realize it's him until the end. Well, actually, you kind of know it's him. But
anyway, he takes it off at the end of the movie, kills each, every person kills each other as
they complete their job. He gets the, gets the money. He takes off. It goes off perfectly.
It was a perfectly prepared plan by a complete sociopath and perfect. That's it. And that's,
that's the quote he says at the very end of the bank robbery, which is whatever doesn't kill you
simply makes you stranger. And it's great. And it's on YouTube too. You just got like 10 different
clips of the, somebody, you know, they posted it. So it's great. That's it. That's, I'm not that
great. And you thought, you mentioned earlier that you thought that was the perfect bank robbery,
right? Yeah, that's, why is that the perfect bank robbery? Well, I don't know if it's a perfect one.
I love the bank robbery from Heat too. Yeah, that says classes. It's an amazing movie. Oh,
you know, you know, the other one, the inside man. Do you ever see the movie, The Inside Man?
The guy actually stays in the bank after the robbery. He builds a false wall. Oh yeah. Yeah,
I have seen that. Amazing. That's a good movie. Amazing. The whole movie takes place in like one,
one location, right? Right. Yeah. At the bank. It's perfect. It's a great, it's a,
yeah, it's a great film. Anyway, people love the Joker and people keep comparing me to the Joker.
And so you feel like you can relate to the Joker. I do. I feel like we're kindred spirits. I told
you about the chick that, well, the, the, um, the, this producer who like wanted me to do a
host like a show and we, we had a whole discussion about the show and what it would be. And I was
like, man, I loved her idea of the show. And then after she went and started pitching the show,
it changed to suddenly where I'm like, I'm a guy trying to turn around businesses that are
getting robbed or something. It's like, what? I was like, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not doing all that.
You're not. No, I said, you're trying to make me sound like a Boy Scout. I said, no, I said,
I was okay because before you were portraying me kind of like, like the Joker and now you're
trying to turn me into the Boy Scout. And I was like, I can't be a boy. Nobody's going to believe
that. You've heard me talk. Nobody's going to buy that. I'm, no, I'm trying to do the right thing.
And you're being taken advantage of. And I want you to, I want to help fix your problem. I'm not
going to, I can't do it. I can't do it. So anyway, yeah, we need to sell this painting.
How much? I need 600 for it, but I'll take more. Luke, what are your thoughts on this
painting? Luke also has a fine arts degree. So what do we do? We just have them bid in here or what?
Yeah, people are bidding in the, they're bidding. Right now it's at 125. 125. Are you serious?
It started at 20. 20. Nice. Honestly, honestly, that's nice. Honestly, yelling like this too,
is that the canvas alone costs, you know, 80 bucks. You know, the canvas, you know, the canvas and
the paint, the time, the material, the total materials on the total materials. Yeah. With
canvas, with the paint, probably 110, 110, 100 bucks, 100, you know, it's hard to tell because
you buy a, you buy a paint brush and Matt signed it at the bottom paint brush. But it's like the
paint. You're not using a whole tube of paint, but you're also, you are using at least, there's
probably at least eight different colors in there. So each one, each thing's, you know, eight or nine
different, eight or nine bucks, eight or nine different tubes of paint. You don't use them all
though. So whatever, probably around 100 bucks, 110, 100 bucks, something like that.
Want me to sell it? Yeah, sell it for us. So Matt told you what it is and I'll tell you what it means.
All right. This is what you learn in art school, folks. This is what you learn at Leo Burnett,
selling Marlboro cigarettes or Leo Burnett. So the interesting thing about this painting here is the
three clowns that we have here all interacting with each other. You have the leader out front
who is, you know, the strong dominant presence of the group and he is leading the group on.
He's got weird fingers. Okay, I got it. So this is kind of like a combination of all the different
personas that Matt has embodied over his criminal career. He has the strong leadership role in the
front and then he has the two hesitant ones behind him hiding behind this leader. They don't really
know where they're going and they're not fully in focus and fully in color yet. So they're not
really strong enough to be out there on their own. So I like to imagine this front more dominant
character is emblematic of who Gary Sullivan was at his peak during the performance. This is Gary
Sullivan. He's rolling into Bank of America right now. Fake credit cards, fake IDs and just a
head full of steam because he knows he's going into that bank and he's getting exactly what he wants.
And you know, you see the texture in the background with all the laughing. That's Matt when he's
leaving and that's why it's to his back because he's leaving the bank laughing with millions of dollars.
Wow. That's better than what I did. That's better than mine. Yeah. Some guy just said 600 bucks.
Gary Sullivan. I hate it. Keep it going. Keep it going. It's worth at least a thousand.
You got to actually send it in the chat. Well, we're at the end. Whoever's got the highest.
Oh, okay. So how are we going to do it? So how are we going to actually
complete the transaction? You do. You also understand that it has to be shipped.
The problem is luckily this is not. Are you going to ship it for free?
And my shipping is probably, I mean, I'll work it out with the guy. I mean,
it's probably going to be 80 to 100 bucks at FedEx to have it shipped. Now, if it's local,
you know, great. But if it's not, if it's like I keep in mind it's about 100 bucks to ship this
thing. So I've shipped a couple canvases that were five foot by four foot to Texas and a couple to
Illinois. Those were about 130, 120 to 130. How many hours did you put into that?
That? Yeah. So you just ask, God, I don't know. That's fucking hard to say, bro.
I don't know. It's hard to say, bro. It's hard to say because I don't sit down at one, you know,
it could be, I mean, we're between 20 and 30 hours. You don't do it in one sitting.
Yeah, I don't sit, do it in one sitting. You paint a little bit. You do something. You come back.
You paint. The paint has to dry. And you're thinking about it. You're thinking about it.
The canvas doesn't mean it's not working. Right. Because let's face it. This,
this isn't a picture. I didn't pull this picture off the internet. Yeah, you did project it and
then paint it, you know, that everything, you know, everything come out of your imagination.
Yeah. Well, the, the, the face that they've masked came off of,
um, came off the movie. Right. You can find those online. Somebody said $2,000 if you accept in five
minutes. If you accept in five, if you accept $2,000, of course. If you want to pay $2,000 to
this right now, then do it. Absolutely. You got a deal. He's out with himself twice already.
He went from six to a thousand to 2000. You send me two, you send two, look, you send $2,000 right
now. We stopped talking about the painting. We're talking about some completely different.
You got the painting and I'll pay to have it shipped. Pay pal the money now. Pay it pal.
And I'll, and I'll throw in a book and give you the book and we'll autograph it. Wow. That's a bargain.
We'll even throw in a concrete hoodie. So what's your PayPal, Matt? We gotta put your PayPal on
there. Um, what do I say? We'll tell, well, well, if you're serious, we'll give you the PayPal at the
end, but it's signed by Matt Cox. If you're ready to send $2,000 right now, I'll send you the PayPal
right now. Yeah. Cash app, Matt Cox. Yeah. They're, they're full of shit. They're just trolling.
Yeah. Cash up. I do have cash. Yeah. Oh yeah. Everybody got cash. I do have cash up.
Do you want to just put your name in there? And if he drops it, then he said, send the PayPal email.
Yeah. Here's Matt. Let's give your cash up. That's the best way to do it. They might just donate
you money anyway. I have PayPal. Okay. Tell them your PayPal email. All right. Right now. Let's see.
Do you want to tell it to everybody? Yeah. Well, yeah, they used to send the money.
All right. I'm sure they can. Danny got hacked. Yeah. Did you? Yeah. No, I don't have my PayPal.
No. What got hacked? Your Instagram. Oh, what the fuck does that do with PayPal? I'm sure they
could hack PayPal too. Yeah, I'm sure anything can get hacked. So what are you saying? Oh my god,
dude. We're talking about hacks. I said you got hacked. You got hacked. You are a hack. So what's
up, Matt? Did you just get back from Utah? Yes. What were you doing in Utah?
Hey, wait a second. We got Mountain Dews on deck. Oh yeah. Look at a little mini boy.
I just sent it to you. We got Mountain Dews. We're rolling. I just sent it to you.
That's fine. What were you doing in Utah? Matt only accepts Bitcoin.
What was I doing in Utah? Yeah. I was doing videos based on some guys that are selling a series.
They're creating a series around how to not get ripped off in real estate and different types
of frauds that are committed. It's a whole thing. They're going to sell them to real
estate investment clubs around the country. It's pretty cool. The one guy is named, he's a real
estate investor. He does wholesaling. Both of them are wholesalers. We did a whole series of
videos and Ben actually has a YouTube channel. Who does? Ben. Who's Ben? He's one of the guys that
was the real estate investor that flew me out there. Super cool guy. He took his whole family
and they sailed around the Caribbean for like a year. For like two or three, I think for like a
year or two. Wow. Now he's driving. Now he's got them all on an RV driving them around the country
and he was in Utah and so they flew me out there. What is it? What is it? What is it?
These comments are funny. How high are you? This guy said Matt only accepts social security numbers.
Some of these guys get really creative. Some of the best comments are from these guys.
I've heard some of the funniest shit from these guys. Is it everybody that when I say,
hey, go buy a t-shirt, half of them come back? Bro, I'll buy a t-shirt if you make one that says,
I hit Matt Cox. I got a fine arts degree. I'm like, come on. So you're assuming I'm Gary.
You're making a shirt that says you're assuming I'm Gary Sullivan. Oh, yeah.
Well, that's cool. What else you've been doing? You've been making like new content for your
YouTube channel, some reviews, reviewing con movies. Yeah. How's that going?
I mean, I don't have any subscribers. I got like 14,000 subscribers. I need a bunch of subscribers.
You got what, 14,000? Yeah, 14,000 subscribers. So the problem is is that people subscribe and
they don't hit the button, the notify button. So they don't watch. You got to turn on the
notifications. You got to turn on the notification. So is that your PayPal?
He's got a PayPal notification. He said $2,220. He sent him five bucks. He sent me five bucks.
Oh, shit. Your PayPal is going to start going off. Nice. No, I think this is probably the guy
that was going to send me $2,000 just to be five bucks. Somebody just said they sent you $2,220.
That's the guy. No. Well, he got five bucks. So I got five bucks. From the doctor.
Shane. Shane. Shane. Right. Who is it? Sean. Sean? Yeah. S-E-A-N.
S-E-A-N. I can't fucking see. Sean. Listen, not just that. I need glasses. You know how long it
took me to get glasses in prison? How long? Almost two years. From the first time I actually
sent in a cop out saying, hey, look, I think I need to have my eyes checked. Two years before I
actually got glasses. And when I got them. Why did it take so long? They don't care. They don't care.
They lost the cop out twice. They don't give a shh. They don't care. Lost the cop out twice.
Then I had to file a, I had to file a grievance. Then I had, it just went on and on, bro. What?
No, you guys keep talking. No, I want to hear it. What? What? You should get in only fans
because they want to see high quality pictures of your hair transplant roots.
Well, how did we talk about, we were talking about that earlier. Yeah. No, I didn't, I didn't
realize. I thought it was like Luke said, like astroturf. I thought that when they, when they
put the hair in there, it just sits there like astroturf doesn't grow. And you're stuck with
the same hairstyle. Yeah. And you have to make the rest of your hair match that by constantly
cutting like the back. No, they, they, they, so explain to us exactly. So they put, there's gotta
be a YouTube video, right? They actually put the roots in there. Get more money. Somebody else
was at five bucks. Five more bucks. Damn, Matt. Nice. 10 bucks. So no, what it is, is they, look,
they cut a strip out of the back of your head. Yeah. Like the actual hair underneath your hair.
Everybody's hair, they have little follicles. Yeah. Those little, like little clear white
things on the end of your hair. Right. They look like when you yank a piece of hair out,
you can see it. Little baby pieces of rice. Yeah. And those grow. So you could literally cut your
hair out. Like you could cut a strip of your hair out and plant it on your stomach or whatever.
And that hair would grow long, just like the hair on your head. It would grow
five, 10, 15 inches long. Cause that's what that follicle does. Unlike your hair and hair,
which is constantly falling out. So they take those same follicles and they re-implant them
in your hair wherever you want. They could have done a big circle on my forehead. I'd have a big
unicorn. I'd look like a unicorn, right? I could weave it. Should get a tail.
That's crazy. They pony tail the front of your face. And I got one, one that was 80. Listen,
did you know people are doing it now where they actually, they actually put it into,
cause they don't, guys like don't have a good hairline for their facial hair and they'll
actually having it done on their face. That's just over the top. That's just too much.
That's just too much for Matt. They did it once. That's coming from a guy who wanted to get leg
extensions. That's too much. You gotta draw a line somewhere. You know, it's funny. It's funny
saying all this with a full head of hair and being six foot tall is vastly different from me
and my height and going bald. Anyway, I'm just working with what I was blessed with.
Yeah. You better hope you get void. You better hope you keep that nice. You got a nice big mop
that you're still young. How old are you? 32. Oh my, yeah, bro. Listen, it could be all over in
like five, 10 years. It starts all of it's over. You think, I don't think, I don't think that could
happen. I don't think you could have hair that's like super thick and then all of a sudden hit
a kick and just like lose it all. I think I would have lost it by now. No, it's starting with pictures
of Matt. My style of receding and receding and receding with the long hair. Yeah, it looked like
he was going bald. I had great hair when I was younger. Yeah, but it's a gradual thing. I don't
think it just, all of a sudden you start going bald. Well, you could go thin. You could recede.
I receded to the point where it was just, it was ridiculous. I had my, the girlfriend I was dating
was slipping in like hair club for men's stuff for me in my books and stuff. I was like, what?
And she's like, really, you got to do something. I'm like, are you serious? Well, that's a red flag
that you probably shouldn't be with that bitch. No, no, I wasn't here. Let me change. She actually
like you how you are. She actually eventually started sleeping with her boss. Anyway, but
they're happily married to this day. And you know, good for her. So he had good hair too.
Well, he was also six foot tall and had a lot of money and I was struggling. So,
Oh, holy shit. It's going off. Look, look, 13 cents. It's just mean. Yeah, it's just mean.
So yeah, they re-implant the little follicles. They grow. I had a couple surgeries.
And now they grow and it does grow. I get my hair cut all the time.
I need one more surgery. I really need surgery. So how are we going to do this if like 100 people
send you all this money that adds up to 600? You're going to have to cut this thing into pieces
and ship it out. No, somebody's got to send straight 600 bucks at least. Somebody's got to
send an amount. I don't think anybody's going to buy that for 600 bucks. Are you going to be kidding
me? Do you think somebody will? Are you serious? I fucking sell. 1500, sorry, 1400. I've sold
for 1,000. I've sold them for 750, 800. That's true. I'm only selling that. That was for me.
I'm only selling that for 600 because I'm fucking going under. Okay. So trust me.
You saw the one I did of the Trump one. That was 1,400 up. Remember, I sent it to you. You said
you got to do one. Is that where he's dressed like Scarface? Oh, he's, is he like, he's not
really Scarface. He is in black. He's in a black thing and he's got a gun, a Newsy and
Washington's behind him. Okay. Yeah, I remember that. 1,400 bucks. So somebody specifically
request that or did you just make that? No, guy requested it. Okay. So someone can just request
whatever they want and you can make it for them. I mean, yeah, if I want to do it, I mean, it's,
you know, it's got to be something within a reason. I'm not going to paint anything. I'm not really
interested in painting. I got a guy right now that wants me to paint him with Grisoldo Blanco
behind him and Richard Krasinski, I think is a guy. He was the ice man who did a bunch of like
30 murders for the mob or something. It's a great painting. It's great. I started it. I haven't,
and he wants, this guy wants himself to be in the painting in the painting. It's really pretty
good. It's pretty, look, I got, I did one for like 700, 800 bucks on a Pablo Escobar. Yeah,
I saw the Pablo one. I like that one. Yeah. We should get, we should get one of us with like
the Death Row album cover and have Matt paint it. It puts Sandy. Sandy. You know how Big Black
and Bob did it with the Bulldog in there? Oh, that would be sick too. I've had people ask me
to paint their dogs. I haven't done it yet. Yeah. Like the one, they want their dog painted.
What is a day in the life of Matt Cox like? Like, what do you, what is your, like, walk me through
what happened during your day? Wait, hold on before you get into that. Somebody just said,
this was a tough painting for Matt. The canvas is taller than he is. Nice. Nice. I like it.
I mean, really just vicious buckers, you know. Wow. Roasted. No, what I get up at like 5,530.
I go to LA Fitness at like 6,630. Shit, that's open right now. Yeah. You got to wear your mask,
not when you're working out. While you're working out. Okay. No. Then I get on the elliptical.
I do about four miles on the elliptical. Then I work out. I just kind of go through like a
basic routine. What's your workout routine? I mean, it's not biceps. It's so ridiculous. I don't
even do biceps. What do you do? All I do is I do chest, shoulders. I don't do tris. I'm going to do
dips, but I do chest, shoulders, and then I do legs one day, and then I do back one day. I don't
even do biceps. Okay. Bro, I got these little tiny arms. Trust me, they get big. I get like
pop-eye arms. Look at your shirts about to rip off. I get stop. I get like pop-eye right away.
I just go through the motions. It's just like nautilus equipment. I don't even try and work out.
Are you sure you're not on any HGH or anything? No PEDs? I don't know what that is. What's a PED?
Performance enhancement drugs. What all the athletes take? No. Nothing like that.
But for me to really show gains, look, I'm like 51 years old. For me to show
serious gains, I need steroids or something. I just start working out and take fucking steroids.
Bro, I'm just, you know, at my age, you're not producing testosterone like you were when you
were younger. Low T. Low T. So then what? After the gym, then what do you do?
Then I come back and I either go see my mom or I go back and I write or I do, you know, you run
errands. Like, you know, maybe I go check my PO box. I'll sign books and mail them out. People mail
me their books to my PO box. How many books do you get a day I just sign? Maybe like one or two
every other day. You know, like, I'll go like once a week and there'll be like four or five books
there. So what else do I do? I mean, then I write and then I paint. What else? You know, that's
like, that's it. I don't do, I don't do that much, but it's like, it's like writing, you know. It takes
time. You just sit down and knock like, you know, just sit down and just knock it out. You're staring
at the screen. You're thinking about it. You write it once. You rewrite it. You write it again. You
go back. You read this. You know, same thing with painting. You paint a little bit. How do you write?
Like, what's what's the process of you writing, writing one of these books? Like, do you open up
fucking an app on your computer and just start? No, I have a MacBook and I type on the MacBook. I
read the transcripts for the read. I have to order the documents for all these guys. So it
how long does that take usually? Like Amadeo's book. Yeah. You're working on Amadeo's book
right now. Right. It's almost done. So what is the process like to write a book about somebody
else like that? I mean, you take you, obviously, you do it. Obviously, you can't right now, you
can't interview him anymore, obviously. So how does that work? Well, I already had the story.
The story, I had like 15, 16,000 words. I've turned it into about 42, 43,000 words. This
because somebody sent me $21 and 53 cents. What a random number. It's adding up.
Yeah, it is actually adding up. You're right. You got $31 in. Compound interest. I have enough
to get, I can get almost a full, I can get a full thing of gas and get across the bridge. Yeah,
that's covering Starbucks. Yeah. So, yeah. So basically, I interview them, they tell me their
story. And then I ask them questions, which you did a long time ago, which I already did a long
time ago. So with Amadeo, I just went back and I ballooned like stuff that he had told me. I went
back through all my notes. Like there were certain storylines and things he told me that I didn't
follow up on because it was like, ah, that's not really interesting. Or I was trying to do a
synopsis of his story. You try and I'm trying to do it in as few words as possible. And but now I
want to turn it into a whole book. There's all kinds of different storylines and things that I
never really developed because it, because it was supposed to be a short, concise
story. And now I can actually, I have the liberty to actually blow it into a full length book. So
what I did was I turned around and I got documents that I didn't take advantage of before, reread
his transcripts. I reread letters that were filed in court on his behalf from different,
different associates that he had dealt with. And I took those letters and I contact a bunch of people
that he used to, that were actually a part of the whole, his company and the whole case,
contacted them. I met a guy in Orlando. I interviewed him. I interviewed a couple other
people on the phone. And so I incorporated, you know, it's fucking amazing about that, by the way.
There were so many things when you're in prison, right? So I'm reading this document. I'm getting
this. I'm ordering documents from the court. I'm getting stuff and I'm reading. And it's like,
I kept reading stuff. You know, he would tell me the story and I knew the basic story.
And you hear it, but I'm also talking to a guy that's, he's a rapid cycling bipolar and he has
features of schizophrenia. And I've seen him go off on guys, like, say crazy shit. Like I told
you, talk about anthraxing their village and I'll, you know, put, you know, chop it heads off and
putting them all on stakes. And I'm, my legions are going to march on Washington and you're sitting
there like, holy shit, this guy's insane. And then he would come back down. Like you'd be at the
table with him and he'd go off. He'd like, you know, somebody would say like, this is bullshit.
I got denied. I can't believe it. He'd go, and he'd say, I know, and I'm sorry. And there's,
you know, we've done this, we can appeal it, we can this, we can that. And he'd go,
and all of a sudden you'd see it. You could feel it coming. You could feel it coming on.
And you'd see him. And all of a sudden he would just,
you, the mania would hit him and he'd, and he'd suddenly be like, you know, when I take over.
And then he'd start on this huge rant about when he took over how he's going to kill all the,
he's going to, all the lawyers are going. And, you know, when my legions march on, you know,
they'll be sorry and the president will bow at my, you know, feet and you're going. And then he,
everybody knew it. They'd all kind of sit back and wait. And then all of a sudden he, he'd kind of,
he'd come back down. He'd sit there for a minute and he'd go, all right, well tomorrow I'm going
to notify the court that we're going to do this. And he'd go right back into lawyer mode. And he'd
do the whole thing and talk about how he's going to appeal this and appeal that.
Just go right back into it. Right back into it. Like nothing ever happened.
What did you mention about it? Would anybody ever say anything to him about it?
I mean, people knew. Like when you approached him, you already, you'd already heard. Like I
heard about it way before I met him. Yeah. So I had already heard the story. So when you're
talking to him, you're kind of talking to him with kid gloves. Yeah. But when you start to see
how his mind works and the way he was getting these guys cut loose from prison, you're a fucking
bank robber. You got 25 years. You're done. You've lost your, you've lost your appeals. You've
lost this. You've lost it. And Amadeo comes in and you tell, he tells you his story and he goes,
we're going to file under Johnson versus the United States and we're going to this and we're
going to that. And you start thinking, yeah, okay, whatever, bro, whatever. And eight months later,
the guy leaves prison. Oh my God. That's so crazy. He had a line of guys going,
can you look at my case? Can you look at my stuff? Can you look at his? Of course.
He's smart as hell. Right. He's doing stuff that you're just amazing. Look, the guy,
he's got, he's just got himself nine years home confinement. He's on home confinement.
He has nine years more to do in prison. They're going to let him do it in his living room.
I've never heard of anybody getting more than maybe 18 months, maybe two years home confinement.
Yeah. He just got nine years. Nine years.
Fucking amazing. Can't leave his house. He knocked 12 years off my sentence, bro.
I mean, it's, he's, he's, he's amazing. So when I heard the stories and you see the way he works
and you understand, there were certain things that he would say that was, were happening with him
outside. And I, you know, his story, you, you read his, you read his story. It's on the
web. It's on, it's on my website, Matt Cox and inside true crime on YouTube.
And it's on, yeah, it's on your YouTube channel. You have the audio version of it.
Audio version and it's on my website, inside true crime.com. So no one's got time to read it.
Just tell them where to get the audio. Yeah. Yeah. Did the audio. It's, I've got, I've got the story
and the backstory. That's just a synopsis. I'm turning into a whole book, probably going to be
out in a few weeks. Anyway, and you make the whole, you're going to make the book audio, right?
Yeah. It's going to be, it's going to be an audio eventually. And you're going to read it, right?
You're not going to hire some schmuck to read it. I'm not going to read it. Come on, Matt.
They want you to read it. I'm not going to fucking have to read it. I'm not going to read it.
Everybody else. It would take me fucking weeks to read it. On top of that, I'm a horrible reader.
Horrible. I'm, I'm, I'm telling you, I cannot do it. You've heard me read. It's like a four year
old. It's, it's the worst. You should do a version where you read it, but they have to pay for that
one. Yeah. Like a paid subscription. You can listen to Matt read the book for a hundred dollars.
Oh yeah. In an office. In a bank. Oh, in a bank vault. Oh my God. Matt, that's worth a hundred
dollars right there. Dude, we do that at your Patreon. People will, people will pay, Matt. Oh
yeah. We'll pay a pretty penny for that. We're sending you money right now. Yeah. How much was
the last one? Well, there is no more. Like it just dried up. No, you just got 21, 21, 21.
Yeah. They say zoom in on it. How do we do that? Walk it over. Walk what over?
Set it up right there. Oh yeah. Matt, grab it and, and also is the 600, does that include
shipping or is it 600 plus shipping? Plus shipping. Come on. Pay for the, no, you're paying for the
shipping. 80 bucks to ship it. You want to pay for the shipping. Yeah. If you're buying this,
you're going to pay for the shipping too. Where are we going? Put it, put it like right here.
All right. There, there, there. Yeah, right there. So that works. All right, Austin, put it on Matt
Cox's camera. Scoot back, Matt. Yeah, I think I hit it. Pull it back more. Did you really hit that?
I think I hit your kick back. Scoot back more. A little bit more. More.
There you go. To that way. Push it that way towards the loop. Push it towards the door.
Right there.
What happened? Now it's too. Hold on. It's delayed. It's delayed. Yeah.
Matt. What? Talk about it real quick. Go. I don't even get more. Yeah, a little bit more.
We can see it good. Okay. No. There you go. Whoa. Yeah, look at that sucker. Now you can see the
painting and Matt. Now you can sell it. But wait, there's more. But wait.
Remove the microphone. We need Billy Mays. You're good. No, you can leave it. All right, that's good.
You can put it back, Matt. They got it. They got a good view of it. All right. Or maybe we can just
keep it behind you. We should keep it behind you, maybe. Yeah, put it back there. Come on. Come on.
Come on. His signature is in the bottom left hand corner. Yep.
Yeah, I didn't kick it hard. I tapped it. I did tap it though.
Okay, so listen. The Amadeo thing. Yeah. Here's what's funny. So like, I have pictures of him
with these fighter jets, right? Yeah. And he had actually was trying to buy or was negotiating to
buy a bunch of like F-15s and F-16s, like used ones. You can buy used F-15s, F-16s. Okay. This
was before he had, before he, before the whole Congo coup thing, where they backed a political
candidate and all the mercenaries got arrested. How long before that was this? This was, I don't
know, like six months or so before. What year? Oh, 2008 or 2009. 2008 or 2009. Yeah, something like that.
So he, and I could be off on the dates. So what ended up happening was, so he had told me the story
and I saw the pictures and I'd, you know, and I'd seen some of the documents and I was like,
but I still, nothing was like concrete. Like I got this guy who, you know, I've seen him say crazy
stuff. So I don't know for sure if what he's saying is true. So then when I get out and I go and I
interview a couple of his associates, I'm really waiting for them to say, what are you talking
about? He was at an air show. He didn't ever try and negotiate and buy planes. What are you,
jets? What are you crazy? Bro, every one of the guys that I did, they're like,
yeah, the planes. Yeah. They're like, yeah, in front of them and stuff. Yeah. So I kind of thought
like maybe it was a photo op or something. These guys are like, no, no, he was trying to buy planes
and, you know, I wasn't a part of that deal. Which guys are saying this? Guys that were,
that had worked for his company. Okay. One of the guys was a guy named Woody Johnson. Woody
Johnson. What a name, huh? Anyway, wasn't, yeah, Woody's his nickname. Anyway, the point is, is
that like him, there's multiple people and they basically told me, yes, he was negotiating to
try and buy these planes. He also, he owned a security company, a private security company.
He had guys from X, he had X military working, X special forces. How much was he going to pay
for all these planes? I have no idea. I don't know what I have. And how many of them? I have
it written down. He was trying to get like 20 of them or something. He's trying to take over the
Congo and take over all of Africa. You're going to need some planes. He's negotiating with the
Cypriots to try and put the planes, he's got $180 million and more on its way. He can buy some
planes. You can buy a used, a used F-15, F-16. You can buy them for a couple million dollars a piece.
Can you really? Yeah. They take the guns and stuff out of them, right?
They're Declod. They gut them and then they put, then you can bring them, you can bring them outside
the United States and you can have all the shit put back in. And that's what happened. You hire a
bunch of guys from a bunch of Russians that will come in and they'll pack, you bring them to Cyprus
or something, anywhere, the Congo Cyprus, anywhere. You bring them there and then you can hire guys
to come and put all the guts back in them and now they're fully functional. I mean, bro, I've
interviewed a CIA agent about his whole story. He's read the story, the guys researched it. He's
looked into it. I got quotes from him. He basically takes the whole thing apart. And the problem is
everything he's saying is like, listen, this is legit stuff. Like everything that's happening is
like everything I've thought that was, I was going to be able to kind of almost debunk.
It, none of it's being debunked. It's all being supported. People are like, yeah, that happened.
He's really going for it. I'm like, are you telling me he was about to buy a bunch of planes?
They're like, yeah. So he's not, he might be a cycling, schizophrenic, sociopath, but he's not
bullshitting. But he's not a liar. Right. Exactly. Listen, I mean, you know, he backed a political
candidate who's trying to take over the Congo. The guy probably would have won if they hadn't
arrested all of his guys in the Congo. I mean, this, this guy is off the, it's a great story.
It's a great story. And I'm blowing it up and I'm doing, doing as much as I can without being able
to actually talk to him, you know? So before you go to write the book, do you, I mean, do you write
it in sort of like an essay format where you break down like each main part of like the story
into like a, like a skeleton? Well, I, yeah, like it's, it's a chronological format where you kind
of expand on each, it's more like initially it's a chronological outline that I do. Then I determine
what I'm going to turn into actual, what, what is, what's so funny? Listen, last guy's, last time
some guy was, uh, guys were telling me, oh, there was this jerk on the fucking thing. He was calling
you a fucking rat in a scumbag and all that. He was talking about me. And I stopped and I was
like, no, he's talking about me. And I was, and, and I was like, I kept hearing these guys snicker.
That must have been what it was about. They didn't say anything. They want to see you draw
a rat. I knew, I see, I knew, see, I knew it. Would you do a live drawing of a rat? Give me a
fucking pen and a piece of paper. Yeah, buy this for fucking 50. Why did you bring this blank canvas
for? Yeah. Oh, I, I brought the little canvas because I was like, you should do a live. I'm not
going to draw my can on the canvas. No, I was just saying like, I was, I don't know why I bought
that. How much would you sell that canvas for if you just drew a rat on it right now? I don't,
I don't know what, but then I got to mail it to some of the problems. That's fine.
You got to, you know, it's expensive to miss. Like it could be 40 or 50 bucks to mail. Well,
somebody will buy that quick. I guarantee you. That's a little more approachable.
Draw a rat on there and sign it and we'll see if you can sell it. Listen, you know, it's bothered.
This shit, no, no, I'm just saying, well, what about 150? You could ship that.
So, so, so, so set it up like right here. Yeah, there you go.
And then you can, what? What do you mean a permanent marker? This is a permanent marker?
Yeah. That's a nice marker too. Is it? All right. So Matt, Matt, hold up. Put the mic,
put the mic to your face so you can talk while you draw it and you're going to walk us through
your portrait. Drawing a rat? A rat. Yeah. Unfucking believable. Fucking scumbag.
Fucking scumbag. So fucking Walmart working. Motherfucker. Yeah. Fucking. Yeah. What?
Keep going this way. Why am I going this way? I'm trying to get you guys in frame. Oh, okay.
I'm trying to think of what am I drawing up and towards him.
A rat. That has to go more and more. There you go. That's perfect. Are you serious? I'm supposed
to draw this? Yes. Oh, fuck. Are you sit like for bringing my canvas? I don't even know what I'm
going to draw. Just think of me as a diesel. Oh my god. What am I doing? Oh, this is great.
Let's see. So what are you doing now? Explain to us. I mean, it's a, I'm going to say.
How are you feeling right now? What am I feeling? I'm feeling like you get like this is like,
you know, happy? No, not happy. I wonder how long that takes. That's pretty quick.
That looks good from here. This is sick. Wow. Look at that. Fucking sick, dude.
It's unbelievable. Fucking rat.
Fucking prick, motherfuckers. It's like master splinter
in the first Ninja Turtles. It's a fucking mutant rat. I don't know what a rat looks like. I mean,
it's a thick ass fucking rat, bro. Yeah, a thick rat. A thick boy.
A thick rat. Yeah, I think this is a rat on the PEDs.
This is what a fine arts degree gets you right here. Yeah, that's it. There's your fucking.
Now sign it. Hold on. It's not art until you sign it.
Hold on. You should do all your signatures on it. There you go.
You should sign Gary. Gary Sullivan. Oh, shoot. Let's see.
You got sick, man. Ready?
Bam.
That's a fucking masterpiece right there. We're done. That is a masterpiece. That's so sick.
Let's move the microphone so we can see it better. Yeah, let's get a mic for this painting.
You know what's funny? How much for that, Matt? We got any offers in the chat?
Any offers in the chat? We just did a live art drawing of a rat by Matthew B. Cox,
AKA Gary Sullivan. Bob Ross is turning in his grave right now. We're accepting offers on this
masterpiece. So leave your offer in the chat. That's awesome. All right, that's good. Let's
wait. We can put it over there by that painting. Did you see what I, did you see what I, the,
on my channel, the last review, what I've, I named it? What did I name it? I named it.
Here it is. I put, I put. Hold on.
That commercial is so nice.
I called it, I called it con man rats out criminal. Con man rats out criminal. And I reviewed the
movie criminal. There you go. Well, that was amazing. I'm glad that we just did that. That was cool.
I hope we get to sell it. What do you think? A hundred dollars right now?
I'll take a hundred dollars. Do you get a hundred for that? I think that's a deal.
You got to pick it up for a hundred. You got a, you got a PayPal,
Matt Cox, $100. 150 and it's free shipping. 150 for free shipping. Yeah. Oh, I'll
bet you that's not, that's probably, that's probably 30, that's probably 30 bucks.
That's what's ridiculous. The guy, all the guy that I sent, it was like,
it's like a hundred and some odd 200 bucks to ship something to, it's like 200 bucks,
150, was it 140, 150 bucks to ship to, uh, Texas. And I ship two lines right now for that idea.
Stink lines. Shout out to stink lines. Stink lines is helping us remotely right now. All right.
In an unnamed location. Yeah. Actually, you know what? It was $200 to ship that. That's
what I was just thinking. I shipped two paintings for 200 bucks. Okay. So it was like a hundred
and some odd dollars apiece to ship the paintings because I had paid $200 to ship one painting
about a month ago. That was expensive. That was four foot by five foot though. It was huge.
So going back to Frank Amadeo, how close are you to being done with this book?
I'm probably a week away from being done. A week away? Yeah. From being dead. Then I have to
send it, have a bunch of people read it. Okay. Who reads it for you? I mean, I've got just friends
like my friend Stacy will read it. Oh, you mean read the audio version or just like read it to
catch misspellings or like? No, just read it to catch misspellings typos. You know, what if,
who knows what it, who knows what I did. I actually have a bunch of guys that have contacted me.
I had this chick that read one of my books and called a bunch of, she had bought it,
read it, contacted me and said, look, you know, you got a few typos. And I was like,
really? She goes, yeah, she goes, do you want me to read it and catch the typos? I was like,
sure. She did a great job. Wow. That's amazing. So, you know, people have to read the book.
I really want Frank to come on this podcast, but I don't think he's going to do it.
I don't know. Mr. Amadeo. I don't know. I don't know what happened with that.
Does he know that you're selling shirts with his face on it?
I'm actually not selling shirts. I'm actually not.
You're trying. No, I'm not. If you look at, there's none on the store.
You took him off. That's smart. I sent it to you just like, hey, look at this.
I was like a dry run. Yeah, I didn't, it's not on the, they're not in the store. Yeah. His,
his story's on, like I have a shirt with his story on it. It's insanity. That's got a little
picture of him, but it's a little tiny picture. Not like the one you saw. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So,
that's great. Is anybody watching this thing? No, nobody's watching. Yeah. 200 people in the
chat right now. You pay attention to anything going on in the world, like a real estate or
in the world of finance. I watch Graham Stephan sometimes. Graham Stephan? Yeah. I watch him
sometimes. Really? Yeah. Why do you watch him? We had him on the podcast. Yeah. He's great. I mean,
it's unrealistic. Some of the stuff like that the houses that he talks about and stuff is,
it doesn't really relate to Florida. You know what I'm saying? Like you're buying a $2 million
house or a $1 million house or okay, well, people getting into real estate, you know,
aren't typically buying those types of properties, but overall the base, basically everything he's
saying is, is accurate. I watched one the other day. We talked about credit. Yeah. He has, he's
actually has a lot of really solid information. Yeah. He's got a lot of credit and how to build
your credit up. It's like really cool stuff. Yeah. He's a smart kid. Yeah. Yeah. He's great,
but you know, the only problem is when he starts talking about like, you know,
as soon as he starts that $1 million, $2 million or you're like, gee, are you serious? I mean,
as soon as I hear those numbers, I'm like, and then, you know, but it's California.
You can buy a ranch in California for $2.5 million. The same one you'd buy here for $150
or $200,000. It is outrageous. I was just looking in Texas, the price to buy a house,
like you would look at a house on the beach here that would go for like $5 million bucks.
You can buy a house identical to that in Texas for like $300, $400,000. Is it on the beach?
Yes. On the beach. Like same. I'm talking about like the same, like the same exact house. Same
set up. Both on the water, but it's like three times the price here at least in Florida on the
milk coast. It's insane. I look at houses in a e-board city where I was buying them for $40,000
and $50,000, $60,000. Houses are selling for $200,000. $250,000. And it's like, that's $250,000.
Imagine if you still owned a couple of those.
Yeah. Well, that's a, that, that boat sales. Do you think, do you think Graham Stephan is all
the numbers that he talks about and all the big money he talks about? Do you think it's
legitimate? I mean, I think it's, yeah, I think it's legit. I think it's legit. Because he makes
most of his money off YouTube. He does now. He doesn't make like his ratio from income,
like from his real estate versus YouTube is, I would say probably 90% YouTube, 10% real estate.
It's like, I don't know for sure, but that's what I guess. That's what is, I guess that's
his niche, right? So it's like these guys that, that do the seminars where they teach you how to
flip houses. And you're, you know, it's like, okay, well, why are you teaching, you know,
if you're so amazing at flipping houses, you can make so much money. Why aren't you flipping
houses? Right. And of course, well, why? Because 90, 80, 90% of my income is derived from these,
from teaching these courses. Selling the courses. Selling the courses. I make way more, and it's
way easier to do that course than it is to actually go out and flip the houses. And there's not as much
risk. And yeah, it's a problem because that's what happens with a lot of people, especially in
real estate or other online courses. They, they build up like this huge audience where people
like them, they have this big fan base. So like, fuck, now let me figure out something to sell so
I can make more money. Right. So you think, Oh, this guy's a really good at this one thing. He's
like a guru at finance or real estate or whatever the fuck it might be selling cotton candy. And
they just sell that thing because it's just an additional revenue to their income from YouTube
or their media. A lot of times it eventually becomes their entire revenue. Right. You know what I'm
saying? Like you're not, you're like your stockbroker giving stock advice. And before you know it,
you're not, you're not really buying. You're not even a stockbroker. Yeah. You're making more money
doing that. Yeah. So I, so I'm, I'm sure that's what's happened with, with a lot of guys like that.
Yeah. I'm sure that's what happened with Graham Stephan. He probably started the channel off just
to do it, have something to do, do it on the side. Maybe I can build it up. It'll be a little bit
extra, extra money. And the next thing you know, you know, he's did it for a year or so. And the
next thing you know, it probably started ballooning up and he started realizing, Hey, if I really
focus on this, it makes him more money to focus on the content than it does to actually do the
stuff he's talking about. Right. And it's probably more fun and less work for his personality.
You know, so. Yeah. He's going to interest personality. Does he want to drive around all
day, drive people around, show them houses, look, you know, spend days with people and then they
end up, oh, we decided not to do it. Or we're going, Oh, guess what? The last minute. Oh, we found
another house. My, my wife's cousin's a realtor. I didn't know it. And he's got a house. We found
that one. We're going to go with him. Yeah. I spent a week driving around. That's got to be
such a pain. Oh, and he has to be a real estate agent or a real estate broker. What an awful job.
It really is. It's, it's a horrible job. Rehabbing is a horrible job. Being a mortgage
broker is a horrible job. You get these people that come in. Lousy. They come in, they waste your
time. They, they, you tell them to get all these documents. They lie to you. I love it when people
would come on and just blatantly lie to me. And then you say, okay, I need this and this and this.
And they're like, Oh, I don't have that. Really. So you make $200,000 a year working for this law firm,
but you can't provide a W-2 or your taxes. Yeah. Stop it. What are you doing? You pull their credit.
It's crap. You're like, what are you doing? Don't lie to me, bro. I'm trying to help you here. Tell
me what the deal is. I'll figure it out. But you know, it's just, they, they, they just suck. People
suck. That's why I started getting rid of all the people. They were too hard to deal with. So I
just started fabricating all the, all the documents and, and making fake people. This is too much
work. This is too much problem. It's easier to create fake people. They lie to listen to them.
They quit their jobs like three days before. I had a guy, I was getting like,
getting like $60,000 out of his house. So we're, your closing's on like Tuesday,
you know, and then like on Monday, he knew the closing was the next day. Like he walks in and
quits his job and they call the mortgage company like calls like the day before and says, Hey,
is, you know, does Mr. Johnson, you know, work there? And they go, uh, well, actually he did,
but he just quit. He just, he's leaving with his boxes right now. And you're like,
what the fuck? They would actually call the day before closing. Yeah. I've had him. You know,
it's so funny. Usually they close a few, call a few days or a week before I've had them close, call
after the closing, which always killed me. And you only know this because I'm the borrower.
So I make a fake person and then they never called to verify, which is not uncommon.
And then it was like, Hey, they never did call. And I thought, that's weird. And then like a week
later, they call. Hi, just checking to make sure that, uh, you know, Gary Sullivan, you know,
you know, works there and it's like, I got a checks in the bank. I'm already removing the cast.
What if he didn't work there? No, of course I always said he still works here, but numb nuts.
I mean, and it's not once we're talking about multiple times that's happened.
They're just, they're overwhelmed or something. I don't know.
What if you're self-employed? Then what? How do you provide two years, you know, 1040s,
you have to provide your tax? Two years of 1040s, right? But then who are you going to call to
verify it? Well, you don't, you can, if it's in the middle of the year, if it's like in the second
quarter, then they'll typically ask for like a, um, a profit or loss or, um, or sometimes a certified
profit or loss, like they want an actual, your CPA or like an accountant to actually certify,
this is what he's made to date, or they'll ask for a copy of your bank statements or
something just to kind of prove, hey, he's, you know, he's, he is making money. He is still making
money. Um, and then, you know, well they had the, the whole, uh, light doc programs where they would
ask for like 12 months worth of your bank statements. I know they have to figure out,
they have to figure out, I remember, I remember this specifically is that your, your debt to
income, including your, your, including your mortgage, your DTI has to be, your debt has to be
less than, I think 40% of your total income. Uh, is that what it was? Well, I mean, if it's,
if it depends on if it's like FHAs, like under like 41%, if it was subprime, it was typically under
like 45 or 50%. It's like where the banks are just making their own rules. Okay. If it's convention.
Oh, so the banks can make those rules for themselves. It's not like a standard, there's no,
there's no like, like federal guidelines. No, that's, if it's, if it's standard, like a conventional
loan, which is like set by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, then those are considered, you know,
conventional loans, those are the ones with a really good interest rates because you're borrowing
from the Fed. Well, those, uh, your DTI would have to be like below 36% or 38% depending on the program,
but yeah, below 36. So it's your new mortgage payment, all the bills showing, all the monthly
bills showing up on your actual, um, bank statement credit report, credit report. So if you're,
your car payment, well, your car payment, your credit, minimum credit card balance, your minimum
credit card payments, plus your new mortgage, all of that together, you're reoccurring debt, monthly
debt, all that together divided by whatever you make in a month. But wait, they don't go through
your bank statements and look at how much you're spending on gas, how much you're spending on groceries,
how much shit you're buying, how, how much, no, they can, they can look at, so, so say for example,
you make 50 grand a month, right? And you only have one car payment and a mortgage right now.
That may only add up to 10 grand a month, right? And you, are you a W-2'd? Are you, are you an
employee or are you self-employed? Self-employed. Well, then they would ask for your, your 1040s,
like, hey, he made, he made, if you made, if you made 600,000 last year and let's say 590,000
or 550,000 a year before, you know, which is basically $50,000 a year. And you said, hey,
it's, it's, it's now July and I've been making 60,000. They already have something to base that
off on. We got two years' taxes at show, he makes about 50,000. So now they're going to look at your
bank statements and say, he's still, he's making 100,000, he's spending this much every month going
out to pay employees and whatever, he still has about 100,000, about 50,000 left, plus he's got,
then they might, that's assuming you don't, they don't request a CPA to do a, to do a certified,
right. I guess to, to date, to simplify my question is DTI, they don't look at money in,
money out of your bank account. They only look at what's on your, the debt on your credit report
to figure out what your DTI is. The simplest version of that, the simple answer is yes.
They typically don't ask for your bank statements unless they're just looking for where your down
payments coming from. Got it. Okay. Usually it's two years plus a, I think all banks are different
with the, what they require though. Well, yeah. I mean, and it depends on it, is it an FHA loan,
is it a subprime, is it, you know, basically subprime is almost dead. I mean,
What the fuck is subprime mean? Subprime is, it's what caused the whole crisis,
the whole financial crisis, 2008 financial crisis when you were in high school.
You know, that's basically that, that was based on subprime loans that were bad.
You know, that they were saying were AAA subprime loans and they were actually
see, but they were going to, where did that start in Pennsylvania? What's the first,
when they, when people first started going to like houses in the projects of people that had,
were like, like low income areas, they started knocking on doors and saying, Hey,
we think your house is worth this, we could refought, we could ref, get you a new mortgage on
your house. I would think that was going on everywhere that there was subprime. I don't know
that there was a, like you're talking about like a ground zero, like, yeah, we're basically
before the, like the thing that like set the financial crisis off. You have to understand,
prior to that, there was what's called the savings and loan crisis. You know, there was a,
there was a crisis before that, there was a crisis, there's always every seven to 10 years,
there's some kind of crisis, you know, there were due for another crisis. Right. So I mean, it's,
it's, I'm talking about like legitimate fraud that was going on with lots of, with lots of
lenders where they were basically going to people in like poverty areas, poverty areas,
where people were, where they would knock on people's doors, right. And they would say, Hey,
we can get you a new mortgage on your house and you could, your house will be worth this much more
and you get this much money out of your house. People were like, Oh, wow, this is great. Right.
And even more city. Yeah. I mean, exactly what you were exactly what you were doing,
but it was like actual like mortgage brokers that were like lots of them that were doing this and
like, like specifically screwing people out of, out of their own houses. Instead of you,
you were creating fake identities. Right. Well, I mean, you know, they would, you would basically,
that would follow. You've heard the term predatory lending. Predatory lending. You're lending people
money that you basically know they can't pay back. Right. And you're, you're preying on people that
don't have the financial understanding to figure out that what they're signing is going to come
back and bite them in the ass. You know, and then you've got people that argue, okay, well, they,
they had a chance, they signed, they this, they knew, they knew, you know, well, I mean, yeah,
they knew, but it was a lot of money up front and they, they people always assume that they're going
to be doing better in two years when the, when the arm hits, when the, you know, adjustable rate
mortgage hits, you know, I lent you the money at 5%, you're not thinking about two years when it
jumps to, to 6%. And then six months later, it jumps to 6.9. And then seven months later,
it jumps to 8.1. You're not thinking about that. Right now, you're thinking, I'm going to, you're
going to give me $50,000. You guys never seen 50 grand in his life. His house is, he's like, I bought
that house for $35,000. I've owned it for five years. You're now telling me where it's worth 150.
You're going to give me 50 grand. And my payments only going to go up by $100.
Wow. Heck yeah. I could, I can turn that money into something. You're right. Right.
So what happens is then you lend your cousin some money and he's going to pay you back.
He's going to open up a restaurant. You're going to invest that money here and here for,
you know, you realize that most of the people you know are scumbags. They don't pay you back
and you're on the hook for the money. And by the time you really figure out,
hey, that money really blew through my fingers pretty quickly. And then all the new furniture
that I bought isn't worth anything. And that new car's not worth shit. And now it's two years.
And guess what? My $590 payment just jumped to $695. And six months later, it's now $80810.
And now you're screwed. Yeah. And now I can't pay it anymore.
Yeah. You know, and my, my taxes went up and my insurance and it's just, you know, just,
and then they go back and foreclose on you. And then they foreclose and they take your house.
What they planned on doing from the start. Well, I don't think that they,
I don't know if they necessarily planned on doing that.
Really? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I have a hard, look, the bank,
what I do know is the bank doesn't want your house. You know, everybody's like, oh, they want
the house. Yeah. But here's what they, what they did though, after they foreclose,
they can just repeat that process with the next person they sell the house to.
I mean, that's true. There was actually a guy, there was actually a guy, well, sometimes,
keep in mind too, what if the house wasn't worth that much and they lose when they foreclose,
they typically lose like 20%. Usually what happens when they do that, they sell those off
so that by the time it goes bad, it doesn't come back. Two years later, it doesn't come back on
the original bank, comes back on the investor or the subprime or the secondary, secondary
purchaser of that mortgage. So you've packaged them together, people are paying, you get rid of
them by the time, by the time that hits $25. $25. $0.69 cents. $0.69 cents. It hurts my feelings.
Somebody wants you. That was Brandon. A $1 bill and send it to them and they sent you $25 to do that.
You are, bro. Bro, you're awesome. I'm selling $1 bills for $25.
That's a crispy one too. That's a good one. Yeah. All right. This $1 bill has definitely
not been in any stretch bubble. Who's before? What's the name? Put his name on there. Iconic
the group. I don't know how we'd get his address or anything. He has to. Is there an email address on
there? No, he's just in the chat and he just sent it through Paypal. You should have sent his address
in that Paypal. It's a federal crime. Hey, drop your email in the chat. Oh wait, no, everyone's
going to drop their email now. Don't put your email in the chat. Everyone's going to put their
own email in there. Can they message the channel directly? I don't fucking know. He can send it
in the Paypal message. Oh yeah, send Matt on the Paypal your address. Yeah, so we can match up your
message on Paypal with the money. I'm just signing. Yeah, just do something and you're going to mail
it to them. Send a message. Write a little message on there for him. Write your favorite movie quote
on there. Yeah, I'll put it to my partner in crime. Oh, there you go.
This is awesome.
He said I sent the address with 69 cents. Oh, nice, nice. Selling dollars for 25. Who's next? Who's
next, baby?
Will you sign this book and send it to somebody? Shark in the housing pool?
How much for the book? We're going to just start signing anything that's not nailed down in here.
Who wants some carpet? We got tons of carpet squares. Autographed hoodie, light bulb.
Except the tridents aren't for sale. Except the tridents. This old Dunkin' Donuts cup.
A cold Mountain Dew. Hold it up for us, Matt. All right, here's what we got. We got
to my partner in crime from the Secret Services Most Wanted and it says Matthew Cox.
All right, there we go. Now, who am I mailing this? I got to mail this. They sent you the address.
All right. You can handle that, right? You know what it is. I can handle. Well, I mean,
if it's in the PayPal thing, I can check PayPal, right? Yeah, I'll be in the PayPal.
Sweet. That was fun. Anyone else want a dollar? Oh, man. Put this in here and make sure I don't
spend it on the way home. I don't spend that shit, man. Don't throw that out of the strip
club on your way home. No, I can't. Bro. So, so what's your plan to get back on track?
Are you going to just get rich selling books? I'm not. Absolutely not going to get rich
spelling, but that's a great return. Yeah. That's what I should have done. I should have
gone and gotten $51 bills. Christy once. Christy once. How is your probation officer doing?
She's great. Is she? She's great. Listen, if she watches this, I know. She will be like,
if she gives me, every time I say, we say something, she's like, you're probably her favorite
client. Yeah. You gotta be. I don't know. You gotta be. She seems all right sometimes. Like,
sometimes she seems irritated by me and sometimes. Yeah, but that's how probation officers always
are. They have to be that way. Yeah, I guess. Sometimes she's totally, you know,
hey, Mr. Cox, how are you doing? And then sometimes it's like, Mr. Cox, what are you doing?
What's going on with this? What's going on with that? Like, what, what does she ask about?
Oh, like, you know, I have to do like an annual financial thing. Like, like they look through
all my stuff, like every month, right? Well, she requests, she'll request stuff, bank statements,
things like that every month. So, but one of the things is like annually, though, I have to do
a full financial. So I do a full financial and I have to fill out this questionnaire that helps
them rank what the chances of recidivism is, like what level, how, how, what are the chances you're
going to recommit a crime? You know, what level security you are, you should be at. So I had to
fill that out the other day and then they pull your credit. So she pulled my credit and she
like contacts me. She's like, did you open a bank account with Allied Bank? And I was like,
you know, I got this text. I'm like, no, why? And she's like, there was an inquiry and we're just
wondering, I was like, are you not allowed to open bank accounts? No, no, I have to ask. I have to
ask permission for everything. Wow. Credit cards. Damn, that's crazy. Car loan. I had to get a,
you should have seen me. I had to beg to get a car. I didn't like, I really need a car. My car
was basically, it was done. Listen, you couldn't drive it. If you hit the gas, it would shutter
and slow down. So I did, you really slowly ease the gas and then it would start going. I mean,
well, it was, I would have never made it here. Never would have made it here in that car. So I
mean, I just finally, it just, and it actually stopped a couple of times. I actually had to
bring it into a place. They, they did something. They, they said that the gas line was blown or
something. There's just all kinds of shit. Yeah. Bottom line is, is I had to go to her and be like,
listen, I've got to, you've got to let me get a new vehicle. Cause I'd asked her before and she
said, no, I remember that. I remember you telling me about that. She said, no, she's got to buy a
vehicle cash. I was like, what cash? You have all my bank accounts. You know, I don't have any money.
Yeah. So she would be, she would be more happy if I went, I think, and got a regular job.
One with society, hours a week, be a good citizen. Right. And, and, you know,
I'm not saying that's not, that's not a possibility. What I'm saying is that I need to give the,
this stuff a try first, you know, and so far it seems like I can see it. You know what I'm saying?
Like I can see, it's like when you were talking about how you started your channel and you said
like fuck for like a year or so, you said, I'd like six or seven, you said it took like a year or
two to get 7,000 views or seven more than a year. Yeah. Yeah. Just 7,000 subscribers.
And you, and you were like, and then, you know, just slowly creeped along. Then eventually
that something happened and boom, then there was another jump and another jump. And that's
where I am right now. Like I'm trying to figure out how to get subscribers and how to build up
the channel. And so that I can get to the point where I can do a true crime podcast. And, you
know, so I've got ideas and I'm doing it right now. I'm slowly doing that, but it takes time
and it takes, and it's all, it's an effort. You know, it's, it's not, it ain't easy.
Wait, I don't get it. Look at your fucking setup. I, you, but you make fun of my setup all the time.
You say it's a little back alley dungeon. I've never said back alley dungeon. I think I said
basement, but you do have an amazing, you do have an amazing setup. I just don't like the,
I don't like the, um, the backdrop. That's all. Okay. I liked your other backdrop better.
You don't like this backdrop. This is a $600 backdrop. I don't, yeah. Seven if you include the
rat. I don't get it. We got the, we got the Gary Sullivan spinus artwork in the background.
Somebody needs to buy that thing. Yeah. What the fuck? I can't believe no one's bought the rat.
Come on. What a skit. At least leave it here and I'll fucking put it in the background. It'll
improve the backdrop a little bit more. Anything. Listen, listen, wait, I don't get it. Why can't
you start a true crime podcast when you only have how many subscribers? Because like 14,000.
That's not enough to start a podcast. I mean, I'm not saying it, it isn't, but I mean,
you know what you make on a channel like that. You're making, you're bringing,
I'm bringing in like, like a hundred bucks a month. It's like nothing. So even if I start
putting out content, like right now I'm not, I'm just, you get this logic because I don't get this
logic. Well, my point is if I do a true crime podcast, who's going to see it? Listen, if I did
it, if I did a true crime podcast right now, and I put it, let's say you and I do a, do a video
right now. So you're saying, you're basically saying that you want me to explain. Listen,
you and I do a video right now. Okay. So we do a video and we posted on your channel. We posted
on my channel. My channel gets a, that video might get a couple thousand hits. Your channel is
going to get 30,000 hits. You have, you have a whole bunch of subscribers. It may even get more
than that because the algorithm will most likely push it more because it's on your channel and
you've got 350, 360,000 subscribers. So the algorithm most likely going to push yours more
because it sees a whole bunch more subscribers. Okay, I get it. So you're saying you wouldn't,
you wouldn't do this unless you had the opportunity to make a lot of money from it
or get a lot of views from it. I have, but for me to put the energy into it,
there, I have to be able to monetize it. I have to have, I bills. I don't, I don't have money just
coming in, right? You know, it'd be different if, if I had, how much money would it cost you to do
each podcast? I don't know. I think probably each, each true crime podcast. If I had each podcast,
how much money does that cost you to sit down? Carolyn, right now it's costing about
about $250 to $300 for each one of these little tiny reviews, about 250, 300. Okay, I'm not,
I'm not talking about a review with a camera. So if I did a podcast, lighting crew with a studio,
I'm talking about you sitting in a room with two microphones with somebody else and talking about
something. I don't know how much. I mean, this doesn't cost a dime. I mean, we've had this discussion.
You're always like, yeah, I don't know. I'm not sure. I feel, I, you know,
I mean, I've got 18 months worth of material. I got a ton of stories that I could do podcasts with.
Okay. But, you know. So if it costs you,
if it costs you nothing to sit here and record a podcast, but your power bill.
Well, yeah, but it doesn't really cost nothing. So then I do some crappy podcasts,
it was just me and somebody talking. When the truth is, I would like to show pictures. I'd
like to have some edits, have it edited slightly. You know, you kind of, you know, you want to be
able to kind of present, you know, the documents, like why is this, how did I uncover this?
Why is this true? How do I know that this is the guy that, I mean, bro, I got cases where people,
people killed people. You know, I mean, I've talked to homicide detectives. I've talked to
a dollar 35. Somebody wants you to sign a quarter and mail it to them. We're done.
That ain't happening for that much money. So, look, it's just, you know, I, look, sitting
there just doing, doing some shitty podcast at my desk, where it's just me staring at the camera,
telling a story. That's not going to help me. That's not going to, and you also know,
that's not going to get me subscribers either. You know, it's just not, I need to be, I would
like to be able to do a semi decent true crime podcast. I mean, I think that's reasonable.
Well, the videos that you're doing right now doing the reviews are pretty cool.
They are cool, but I don't have any subscribers, so nobody really sees them.
You know, and they look, they get a bunch of, and they get a ton of likes and a ton of comments,
and I get a bunch of stuff, but they're never going to really go. And I mean,
they're not going to really take off until I get a bunch, until I get more subscribers.
I'm working on a shit ton of interviews on huge YouTube channels. You would think
that. But I didn't have my channel then. You did? No, I had a channel. I didn't
have nothing on it, remember? I had like a couple of narrated stories. I got like,
before I even started really putting anything into it, I had probably 8,000, 10,000 subscribers,
just because people would see me on these other shows and they're subscribing.
Look, before I even knew that I had a channel, I had a thousand subscribers, before you told me,
I said, I don't understand, Danny. Oh, because you're leaving comment. You were commenting on
our podcast. You were leaving, you were responding to comments, and just because you were responding
to comments, people saw that and they were going and subscribing to your channel, even though you
had no content. I had no content on my channel. I had a thousand subscribers, and he's like,
bro, and I go, but I don't have a channel. What do you mean? He goes, yes, you do.
You have an account. And I was like, commenting. I said, it doesn't, what do you talk? He had to
explain it to me. Yeah. So I mean, so the, all the subscribers are coming from being on other
people's podcasts. You know, even though all the content on my channel is great, I got great
How much? How much? It's the same one. I'm just keeping an eye on it. $1.35.
So, oh man. Anyway, yeah, bro, I'm still doing, I'm doing the reviews. I got a bunch more reviews
to come out. I'm going to, I'm going to do a bunch of, I'm going to do some, some commentary
stuff where I comment on, on other people's podcasts on. You're going to do one on us?
Yeah, you should review one of our podcasts. I don't know. I'm not sure. What do you, you,
we got some questions on Twitter. They're really just, they're really just interviews,
you guys do. What am I supposed to say about somebody? You should review one with that you're
in with us. Yeah, those are, you know, you know what I need to do? I need to review some,
some scams too. Like Bernie Madoff scams. Yeah. You know, like Sam Israel scam, like Jeffrey Epstein
Epstein. Yeah. Yeah. I should probably, you should do that right now. I don't know. I don't know
anything. I just, look, the only, it's hot right now. I know it's hot. Luke got the clicks on just
that girl. It was so funny on the, what's her name? Epstein chick. Oh, the, no, I thought
she meant the porno chick that he, he interviewed. No, he's talking about the interview we did with
Sean Atwood, where he was talking about Ghislaine, Ghislaine Maxwell. Oh, okay. He was talking about
cause he's like covered the Epstein case front to back. And he thinks he was killed and right.
He was definitely, he was definitely killed. I mean, it's, I don't even think it's conspiracy.
What do you think that when we drop the video too, when she got arrested, so it was in the news
and it was just, you know, the quits and it's of the headline and her in the news and it just
blew up and our little dinky channel that had 6,000 subscribers doubled in five days. And now
we have like 13. Yeah. Now you have like 13,000 and it's blowing. Yeah, blew up. It's just, it's,
Sean covers all that stuff. Like the war on drugs. Like he is, he knows every little bit about
like the corrupt history of the United States. It's crazy. And the Epstein stuff's hot right now.
So everyone's, everybody's interested in the Epstein stuff, especially cause that Ghislaine lady
just got arrested. What do you think is going to happen to her? I don't even know who this is. I
know I saw him. She was his like right hand man. So she helped her bring in the chicks.
But it was like his girlfriend kind of too. Yeah. Well, weren't they all? Yeah. But like his main
show piece one. My problem is I, it would be, you know, despite, and I haven't looked at anything,
but I've been in holdovers and I've been in, you know, pens and mediums and lows
and you're not pulling off a murder in there unless you paid an inmate or a guard to do it.
And I just don't see, and I understand they can say, well, the coroner said that his neck wasn't,
stop it. The fact of the matter is you would have had to have gotten, and I understand the camera
didn't work. Fucking half the cameras don't work. The point is, is that you would have had to have
gone. The only way to pull it off, you went and you got a guard. Yeah. You paid the guard to go
into his, to disable the cameras. The guards are fucking retards. Okay. They're not disabling
shit. Maybe they just shot them off, but they're not going to break them in a way that they
look like they've been breaking. They didn't break them six months earlier or two months,
or tell them that the camera just happened to stop working 20 minutes before the thing.
And I don't see that. So you, so somebody, a guard has to go in, kill them in such a way that
it looks like an accident. The guard didn't kill them. They're saying one of his cellmate killed
him. Okay. Did they charge a cellmate? Well, obviously they're not saying his, they're saying
he committed suicide. The prison is saying that. Okay. But the conspiracy is, is how did they
contact the, how they contact his cell to get him to, they got to be powerful enough to get there.
How did they, you don't think it's, you don't think it's possible to get all the people you
got dirt on? Did you see the, his cellmate that they put him with? No, I'm sure he was a beast.
The dude was like an ex cop, fucking gorilla on steroids, fucking massive. Okay. Humanoid. The
dude was like, could snap the guy's neck so easily. So why, so why wouldn't they prosecute him?
Why wouldn't they, how you tell me, all these people are investigating. We need the transcripts.
Has anybody seen how the connection between this guy and where's the money and where's this and
where's that? I just don't, and I don't know much about it, but the base, I base it, but I know
the Bureau of Prisons and I know you're just not going to be able to make a phone call and get
someone to murder somebody. That's a hell of a leap. And maybe, you know, and look, maybe I'm wrong.
I don't think so, but I also know, and the bone, the bone in his neck that was snapped,
they said there's no way that, that bone is never breaks by just strangulate, by just someone
hanging themselves. So I have a question. The corner that did, his neck was literally
snap, like for that bone to be broken, there had to have been a severe, I understand they said,
what did the corner that researched him, that researched the whole thing and that actually
looked at the body, what did he say? I don't know for sure, but I know that bone was broken.
I know there was, I'm sure, but what's funny is it's, it's easy to be an armchair quarterback
and be an armchair quarterback. Wow, that's a great, that's a great one, Matt.
3,000, 3,000 miles away. He roasted you. Huh? He roasted him. Well, I'm saying,
you're 3,000 miles away. Some guys 3,000 miles away has a degree or is a, is a pulmonary specialist,
you know, like in lungs and he's telling a corner that looks at, you know, six bodies a day that
this bone could never be, really cause the guy that looked at the actual body said this,
and he doesn't work for the BOP and he doesn't work for the government. No, the actual corner
is saying that bone was broken. So he's, okay, I understand he's saying it's broken. So you're
saying he's saying he was strangled or is he saying it was suicide? He's saying it was broken and
it's suicide. Some guy 3,000 miles away or across the planet is saying that bone was broken. It's
never broken in any other cases ever. Bullshit. Right. And that means it was, that means someone
choked into deaths. Come on, bro, stop it. You don't think, you don't think a corner could be
paid off to, to, to fake what the cause of death was? They're paying off everybody. I mean, if
anybody can be paid off, the corner is probably the easiest one to pay off. I think that if I was
in the administration and that I knew that he had this information and I knew this and I was
concerned and I was this and I was in the inside and I could pull this off. I had to kill that
motherfucker before they cops ever got there because that's who I am. I know, right? You know this.
You know I can get in the BOP and I can get the guard to do this and I can contact this guard and
why didn't you just kill him before he was, when he was indicted, when he was on home confinement,
when he was coming back and forth to the, to the court? Why didn't you just have, when he was being
able to be seen by his, by his lawyer? There's a thousand ways to kill him. I think that they
thought as well as Epstein, I think he truly believed as well as probably a lot of people,
he was probably convincing everybody around him that he was going to be able to get out of there
without being, without being convicted of anything, just like he had done already.
You know there's a whole other theory that he's still alive. You know there was a whole, yeah
there was a whole other thing with people were saying like they couldn't, the body was removed
by somebody and they don't know who took the body and there was, I saw a whole thing on this and it
was like, what? They're talking about how he's still alive somewhere. I mean there are nut jobs
everywhere. People believe all kinds of stuff. Right, but you're saying that it's
extremely difficult, it would be extremely difficult for somebody to murder him and cover it up,
right? Yeah. To murder him. I don't think that that's that far- To murder him. It would be
difficult. Let me give you an example in Coleman. Let me give you an example in Coleman. Okay,
Coleman is nowhere near what this prison is. No, it may not be near it, but the basic facility
designs are all pretty similar and the security procedures are pretty similar. Really, this
thing's like a tower. The one in New York City. I understand, but you're not suggesting someone
broke in and killed him. You're saying that somebody told this guy to kill him and he did.
But the layout, the layout of the prison is completely different of the Metropolitan prison
in New York. We're not talking about someone breaking in or leaving or getting in. You're
now saying, no, no, they got to a guy that actually was able to put his hands on him. So,
all they had to do was get him a message and convince him to kill the guy. Right, exactly.
I mean, that's a pretty fucking, that's a powerful argument. I mean, that's a powerful,
to suggest it. Was that guy got a life sentence? His cell? I wonder where that guy is now,
that guy that was his cellmate at the time. Because he's probably going, I didn't kill
anybody. What are you talking about? Has anybody, I wonder if anybody's talked to him,
where he is right now? He's getting a ton of letters from these, from these guys saying this
and then, you know, hey, can you call us on the BOP phone and talk and can we do an interview?
We'll send you a thousand dollars if you'll just answer some questions. You know, it's,
he's probably like, oh, these cracks, but I'm surprised he's not doing interviews. I'd be
taking the thousand dollars left and right. Yeah, I'll call you at five. We can do an interview.
All he's got to do is take the thousand dollars, put the thousand on my books and say,
no, I didn't kill him. What are you talking about? Leave me alone. I mean, I'm saying it's, it,
it is difficult to do that. And when those types of things happen, let's say the guy gets,
does get killed. There was a CEO in Coleman, a female CEO who actually, I want to say was in the
pen, actually told one of the guys, one of the inmates was, she was in the shoe and one of the
inmates was giving her a hard time. And you know, the inmates in shoes, they'll, they'll just say
disgusting things to the female guards. So this one guard was, one inmate was giving her a hard
time and she actually took another inmate that was more friendly to her and put him in the other
guy's cell. And when she put him in there in the cell, she said, break his legs or break his arm.
The guy got in there and he basically tries to like break his arm or something, right?
They get into a huge fight. The other guy doesn't allow him to break his arm. He puts up a fight
because the other guy ends up choking him to fucking death, kills him. Well, then of course,
the FBI comes in because they're, they can't let SIS invest, they can't investigate something like
that. So the FBI comes in, they investigate the whole thing. Other guys overheard stuff, whatever.
The guy ends up saying, okay, this is what happened. He tells what happened.
The female CO, they go to her, they tell her, look, we understand this is what happened. There's a
camera, we can see you talking, we know this, we know that. We're going to give you a plea.
Take like five or 10 years, you'll go to prison. That's it. She says, no, no, I didn't know this
was going to happen. This is what I, no, no, no, no, she didn't obviously know how the federal
system works. So she goes to trial, she loses, she gets like a fucking 30 years or a life sentence.
So that's my basic understanding of the case. This is a female guard that told a guy to have,
to just break the guy's arm and the whole thing unraveled immediately. How would this not have
unraveled immediately? I mean, there's fucking powerful people that wanted him dead. People
Prince Andrew, the Clintons. You think that's fake? There's pictures of them hanging out with
Prince Andrew. What does that mean? What do you mean? What does it mean? They had the dude.
If I was hanging out with Prince Andrew, does that mean that I'm a pedophile? No, but there's
a pedophile. That doesn't mean if there's a woman, there's a woman who was like 16 or 17 years old
who has a picture with Prince Andrew and Gillian Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein in their house in
London. Oh, I was underage and she says that she was raped by him. I understand. Okay. So I love
the way you're going off track here. So now we're saying I'm not going off track. Did Prince Andrew
break in and kill him? No, I'm just saying that this Epstein had dirt evidence on Prince Andrew.
So kill him beforehand. Look, the guy got, the guy beat his case in Florida. He did a little bit
of time. He got off on it. He whatever. He kept touching the girls and he ended up getting a federal
trial. He got jammed up, but he got away with it once. If you knew he had all this stuff and you
knew that information was out there and you were capable of pulling this off, why wouldn't you have
killed him when he was in his own house? You could have one guy go up, shoot him in the fucking head,
he'd be done. Instead, you wait for him to get jammed up again, go to prison, get a thing. No,
I think he was really valuable to him. They wanted to keep going to the parties on the island. No,
I think he was really killing him. Then there's no more party. No, I think Epstein still had a lot
of value to them and they probably truly believed that he would be able to get out of it. I think
maybe it got too late. They said, fuck it, we got to pull the plug. Look, one, like I said, I don't
know anything about it, okay? But what I am saying is this, and by the way, nobody would love to tell
you that the government is fucked up and nobody would love, nobody more than me would like to say,
oh, they this, you know, they're scumbags, you know, this, you know, the truth is,
they're going about their business and I don't see anybody pulling off murdering this guy.
And I think that if the BOP was thought that he was actually killed, they would have charged the
other guy, they would have charged the cell, they'd been like, how easy is that? This is the guy that
killed him. The guy's name was Nicholas Tartaglione, who's been, he was a cop in Westchester County
and he was charged in 2016, he was charged with deaths of four men stemming from an alleged
cocaine drug conspiracy. So this is the guy who Epstein was housed with, right in that prison.
He didn't kill anybody. He killed four people. No, he didn't. What does it say? He didn't kill him.
He was charged, he was charged in a conspiracy where the deaths of four men within drugs,
right? So I was a part of a conspiracy and four people died with doing cocaine or doing heroin,
doing some kind of drug and they charged me with their deaths. I know a guy named Brandon,
who got like 25 or 30 years because he actually, you know what he did? 25 years because he made
the mistake of going to trial. Here's why Brandon went to prison because he was a bouncer at a bar
and a chick came in and said, hey, Brandon, do you know anybody that sells heroin? And he said,
yes, I do. I actually do know a guy. Here's his phone number. She went and bought heroin from the
guy. He, she owed these. They grabbed the fucking dealer, dealer calls back. How'd you get in touch
with them? Brandon sometimes will give people my number if they need drugs. And so Brandon,
Brandon gave me the number and they come and they indict Brandon and say, well, you're,
you're going to plead guilty to like five or 10 years or you can go to trial, but it's for this
murder. And he says, fuck you. I just gave him a number. I didn't know she was going to die. I
didn't know that he goes to trial. Boom. He loses. He gets like 25 years. Matt, let me ask you this.
What happens if Guillain Maxwell commits suicide? Then what are you going to say? I don't know who's
that? That's the lady who just got arrested. She got arrested. That was Epstein's right hand woman
who was her first name again. Guillain. What happened to like Susan? I don't know where she's
from. She's like Jennifer. She's like royalty. She's like English royalty. That's a crazy name.
Born outside of America. There are nice. Pretty sure I've been John,
going to go out of the way and say I've been out of the U.S. probably more than most.
If she ends up dead, if she does, it's probably going to be an overdose and it'll just be an
overdose. She's probably a drug addict. She's locked up now. She's arrested because she's
the right hand man type person. Yes. Okay. So if she dies in prison, yes. If she dies in prison,
then what? To suicide. Do you still think Epstein killed himself? Very, very, very suspicious.
Now I'd be like, okay, let's start reading some shit. Let's start looking at it. Jizz lane.
That's how it's spelled. That's how you actually pronounce it. Jizz lane. Oh man. Yeah, I just.
I don't want to live on that road. So if she ends up dying in prison, then that would be absolutely
insane. Listen, if she dies in prison, I'll read everything on fucking Epstein. We'll come back
and we'll do a four hour podcast. I'll order information. We'll do the whole thing. We'll get
Sean Atwood in here. He's not allowed here. He's actually exiled here. He'll be on it. It'll be a
zoom here. We'll get a fucking video screen right there. We'll do the whole thing because I'll be
all in. That would be pretty fucking sick if we could actually pull that off.
You know what we should do? Someone who suggested this the other day was like,
you get Jordan Belfort, me and somebody else to try and come and do like a just sit down
and talk for three or four hours. Just let you guys shoot the shit. I think you should get Jordan
Belfort on the Matt Cox true crime podcast because that would be good. That would be great. I actually
talked to his secretary. We shot emails back and forth, back and forth.
The corona thing happened. The next thing you know, I mean, that was it. It was over. I didn't
really follow it up because I realized there's no way I can go out there. The same thing with
Sean Atwood. I wanted to try and go to London and after about a month and a half, two months,
I realized this isn't ending. It's going to be a while. Then I sent him an email. I said,
look, bro, this is not happening. Let's just do a podcast. Let's just do a podcast. Let's just do
like a zoom or Skype. He was like, yeah, let's do it. I do them all the time. Yeah, it was a good
one. Yeah, I watched it. You've seen it all before. I've seen it all before. I love. Listen,
what's your favorite podcast you've been on? But I like this one. I like just sitting here talking
shit. You know, I mean, just, you know, you know, who was good was, uh, Oh God, what was it? Pat David
with a value attainment. He was, he had a very professional thing going on, but he's a very nice,
you know, nice, likable guy and friendly. And, uh, uh, that was good. But this is more of a laid
back just talking about, you know, you know, you mean the, you mean the actual channel?
No, I mean, like your most the best. Like out of all the one we've done, that was your favorite to do.
Not Vlad. No. Why not? You know, first of all, he's not there. He's a, he's on a,
yeah, on an iPad and he's behind, it's behind the thing. Did he read your book?
No. And he didn't read my book and he didn't know the story and not just that, but when you're
talking, I'm really talking to him. The other, the guy, the videographer guy who's, he's not
really there. He's off to the side. I'm talking to Vlad, Vlad, whatever. And once while he was,
okay, okay, he'd ask a question and I knew he didn't, he wasn't paying attention. He would get
up and go to do something while I'm talking. And it's like, I want to stop and be like, are you,
like, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, yeah, I'm, you know, because I feel like this, look, it's like,
if you put the camera in front of me and said, okay, just tell your story to the camera. I'd
have a hard time. Yeah. But if Danny's standing behind the camera, I can talk to Danny because
I'm just telling Danny the story. I don't really see the little boxes being like the fans or people
viewing it. It's just, I don't, okay. Hey, Danny, here's what happened. And I'll tell Danny. Yeah,
it doesn't feel right. It doesn't feel right to me. You know, I need an audience. Yeah. Just
probably, I'm sure, has, you know, probably some narcissistic,
Luke's taking lots of notes. I feel like he's, he's very thorough in everything he does.
I'm working here. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. My job isn't to, how much more money you got
Matt going on over here. We are at, we got any good comments, any good questions? Oh yeah,
we got a bunch of questions. Somebody wanted to know how much would it be to get a painting of
Danny in an armchair holding a football? Do you play armchair quarterback?
I even get that. I even get that. That's great. I love that.
Do black shirts make you look taller? Is that why you wear them?
Nice. I don't, you wear a blind blot. You know what? The worst thing about this,
you understand my girlfriend's probably watching this. You understand how horrible that is?
She's kind of, oh, she does. She picks on me like you can't believe. Yeah, I'm sure she loves it.
Listen, not, you know, that she does the whole T-Rex thing with my little arm. She's like,
you got these little tiny arms. At least they're thick arms. They're short thick arms.
That's why I don't even do arms. Here, here's a good, here's a good question on Twitter.
Do you currently know about, do you know about any current fraud with COVID loans going on?
And do you have any friends or anyone that does fraud today?
Do you know anybody who does fraud today?
This is wrong. I don't think you can say yes and net your probation off.
It's questionable. Your PO is going to be like, oh, well, who's that?
That was a great question. Thank you. Good talk.
Why does he never mention stealing those two kids' identities?
Stealing those two kids' identities. What kids? Yeah, what kids' identities?
Which kids? Someone said you never mentioned it, so we wouldn't even know.
I'm not sure. What kids?
Do you ever steal any kids' identities?
Yeah, I used, I used, initially I used a social security number, a random social security numbers,
and they were recently issued. So obviously they did belong to kids while I was initially
trying to figure out how the credit profiles worked. So, you know, yeah, you could say,
you know, you could say that that was a theft. Here's a good one.
How bad is your current financial situation, and do you think you'll ever be able to pay off
your restitution in full? Boy, these are fucking serious questions, bro, right?
That's serious. Do I ever think I'm going to be able to pay off my restitution?
Like, how dire is my financial situation? Like, I have like a little bit of a cushion,
but the COVID thing is really jammed me up. Like, I had paintings probably for two or three months,
and I'm literally... How much money do you have in the bank right now?
Like, I'm not going to tell you how much I don't know. My P.O. knows. No, I probably have a couple
grand in the bank. That's it. And that's really it. And then I have rent, my rent's like $7.50,
my car payments, you know, for something. I mean, I've got, you know, so you start adding up,
you know, food, you know, all this other stuff that starts... Goes quick.
Huh? Yeah, your food, your, you know, $150 for your car insurance, and you start adding it up.
It's like, Jesus. I mean, I'm living on granola bars and like pickles and stuff. I mean,
pickles. What kind of pickles? Wiggles pickles. Wiggles are the best. They're so spicy and sweet.
What? What happened to dinner? Yeah, I'm starving. I'll take you out to eat after this.
Unbelievable. So, uh, people don't like, people were... Could at least ordered caves. Because you
guys... Oh, really? We should have crab. You know what's funny? I saw a, I saw a funniest comment
that like, now I know why this channel is never going to know go anywhere because they were eating
crab. That's the reason that we ate the crab. And that's why we're going to keep eating crab.
Will I ever pay off my restitution? Could have got a bucket of KFC. A lot would have to go right
for me to pay off my restitution. It's 5.9, down to like 5.9 million and change. I don't have any
interest on it. That's good. Yeah. It's probably the only argument that my lawyer actually won
during my sentencing. Would there normally be interest on that? Yeah.
Really? Absolutely. What kind of interest are we talking? I don't really know. I mean, I got like,
I mean, not lucky. I mean, how lucky could I get on that? You could add the interest because I'm
probably not going to be able to pay that either. So, you basically, you know... You'd have to hit
it big to be able to pay that off. Bro, a lot would have to go right for me to pay that off.
A lot would have to go right. And you know, it's like, so it just, it's going to hang over my head
for, you know, here on out. Well, you know. At least you got it interest-free. Yeah. Yeah, that's
nice. So, we'll see what happens. Let's see what else we got. Somebody wanted to know if you would
ever host a seminar on how to host a seminar. I don't know what that means. I don't even know
what that means. I don't know what that means. I was hoping you could maybe... Yeah, I can't
clarify. We need money for the damn paintings. Yeah, yeah, bro. Someone buy the paint, a painting.
Someone buy the painting. Yeah, nobody wants the painting. Make a reasonable offer. You know,
the problem is, it's, it's, it's, it's your clientele. The person is really upset who sent you the
money to sign a quarter because they don't think you're going to send them a quarter. Well, he's
not, you know, they sent like a dollar. I'm not, I'm not sending a quarter. The envelope costs more
than a dollar. Not only am I, am I not, I'm taking your money and I'm good. I can't buy anything with
it. He's not like even taking the money is, what can you buy? What did they send me? Like a dollar?
A dollar twenty-five. A dollar thirty-five. A dollar thirty-five. You can't even get stamps.
You can't even, yeah, you can't even... What, what am I going to do with a dollar thirty-five?
If you come pick it up, we'll give it to you. I mean, the, the effort alone isn't worth a dollar
thirty... Send the PayPal, pal. The effort alone isn't worth a dollar thirty-five. Yeah. I mean,
you know, it doesn't... It's not worth it. What's it worth? What's it worth? What will you sign a
quarter and ship it to him for? I'm, I'm... What's ten dollars? How do you sign a quarter?
Somebody get us quarter out and try and sign it. I'd love to see that happen. That would be pretty
difficult. That would be pretty difficult. I don't know, you know... Not that kind of quarter.
What kind of quarter? He's got a different kind of quarter. Do you know this is my...
Like a quarter of weed? You know this is my second cup, my second one since I, I came in with the
one I finished it. This is almost done. You got two? Where's your other one? I finished it. It's
down there. Put it up on the table so I can see it with the fan. I thought I would lie. I would lie.
The fans want to see. Like, I walked in with two of these. I finished this one basically before we
started. You haven't pissed yet? No. Wow, you got a fucking, I mean, giant bladder. I'm an old man.
You're an old man. Maybe usually old men have prostate problems and have to pee a lot.
Boy, you're a joy to be around. Jesus. I mean, you said your, your, your argument to not having
to piss was that you were an old man. Yeah, I'm saying I probably have like a big bladder or
something. I'm assuming you, don't you get, when you get older, does your bladder get bigger or
something? Or do you have to piss more? Like, I don't... I think your bladder stops growing.
I know these guys that have to piss like every 10 minutes.
Do you have a favorite moment while you were on the run?
I mean, that's the same question we got before. Yeah, being on the, on the yacht, it wasn't a yacht.
It was like a cruise ship. It was a European cruise ship and we were going through like the
Mediterranean Sea and I got my 25-year-old girlfriend beside me and I'm number one on the
Secret Services Most Wanted list and I got like a million dollar, yeah, maybe a month or two before
I got caught and I remember looking at my girlfriend and thinking, fuck, this is, this is, no
matter what happens this moment, this is worth it and it absolutely was not worth it. I mean,
way wrong about that. What were you eating on the cruise ship?
Everything. I mean, it was good stuff. You know, cruise ships, they feed you like
a ton of food. I'm not a fan of cruise ships. This was a European cruise ship. This was...
How are they different from US cruise ships? I mean, I think they're just, I think they're nicer.
They're, first of all, it's way more expensive. Well, that's not better.
Well, I'm saying they put more...
They're nicer, bro. It's a nice fucking cruise ship. It wasn't, you know,
part of all cruise lines. I mean, this is a nice, this is a nice ship. This was, this was great.
We're going to, you know, we're going to, you know, the island of, you know, to Crete, to,
to Venice, to Croatia. I mean, we're, this is a, this was a great cruise. So,
all right. Sorry. I mean, Danny, there are other countries other than the United States, right?
I mean, oh, you have to go on. Oh, yeah. There you go. Okay. Oh, you're trying to recycle.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. That was, it was a, I'll give you A for effort, I guess.
I'm glad you're paying attention to what you think I'm saying. It's nice to be included, honestly.
Yeah. I'm ready to include you. You did the thumbnail. I love the thumbnail. The thumbnail is
fucking amazing. That's the best part about this whole podcast. It's a career highlight, honestly.
Oh my God. All right. Anything else we want to add to this podcast? This podcast is going nowhere
fast. Well, I mean, you know, making money. Making money to the PayPal. Send money now. We need the
money. What else are we going to talk about? If Matt gets a donation in the next one minute,
we'll keep the podcast going. A minute. It takes more than a minute to even get on the damn,
to get on. All right. All right. Five minutes. Five minutes? Five minutes. Boy, you've jumped
five minutes. It's not exactly a call to action. Okay. All right. Too much time. Damn, Jones.
So, yeah. All right. So what else? Hey, you know what else? You know what's, oh, I was going to say,
you know, the guy, the producer that Steve that is putting up, that's basically producing those
movie reviews, he wants me to do, he wants me to do a reactionary video to
the guy that, what's the Black Lives Matter? George Soros? Yeah. The cop? No, the cop that choked out.
Yeah. I don't know who the cop, I forget the cop's name. I forget his name, too. George Floyd was
the guy. Yeah, George. Yeah, but what the cop's name, what's going to happen to him in federal
prison? Oh, yeah. They're like, what's going to happen? Or not in federal prison, in state prison,
or whatever. What do you think will happen to him? I think he'll go to a protective custody.
Three cents and ten bucks. Damn. I guess we got to keep going. That was a minute, roughly.
Not, it's probably close. So I think, well, you know, I don't,
I think that, I don't know. I mean, it's not that I don't know. It's that it depends on
if he goes to federal. Look, all, all states have protective custody prisons, right? So,
just like that cop, that cop was in protective custody, the one with Epstein. I'm sure. You can't,
you're telling me you're going to put a guy who was a cop in with general population? No. No.
No, these guys will kill him. Hmm. You got to put him to like a protective custody, like in,
in Coleman, the, in the low, I was in, well, you can't, I mean, look, you cannot lock people up.
Police officers, judges, anybody, you cannot lock them up and allow them to get killed.
I'm not saying it doesn't happen. There's going to be some bunch of guys in the comments be like,
no, like five years ago, so and so good. Okay, look, I'm not saying it doesn't happen. I'm saying
for the, the majority of the time, they lock someone up that's high profile, that has a good
chance of being killed. They'll put them into a protective custody prison where there's a bunch
of like, I've been locked up with all cops, judges, lawyers, prosecutors, like all kinds of people that
in a normal prison, when they find out you're, you're, you're a cop, they're going to,
they're going to kill you. And these aren't, mind if you're a cop and you go to prison,
you're a dirty cop. So if you think the inmates didn't like a good cop,
what are they, how do they feel about a cop that spent 10 years ripping off drug dealers?
Yeah, they're gonna fuck you up. They want you dead. You're the worst kind of cop. So they can't
send him to a regular medium or regular low or a pen. They have to send him to a protective
custody law or protective custody pen. I knew the guy that guy's name was a, this is his first name
was, his last name was Junior. They call him Junior, his last name, his name was actually
Junior. It's the same. No, it's just because I didn't click it. So what, anyway, what happened was
he never had any problems. There was a guy named Jason, I forget his name, but he actually was
a New York, I think it was a New York cop. He actually, I think, I'm pretty sure he took his
baton and he had a, he had rested this guy, the guy was mouthing off to him. He took his
fucking baton and shoved it in the guy's ass, like literally pulled his pants down and fucking
stuck in his ass the whole thing. God damn. No, so you know what happened to him? He didn't kill
the guy, but I mean, I'm right or wrong. They gave him the same treatment. I'm saying that
the guy didn't die and Justin, they, the feds came in and the feds said, we're going to take the case
and we're going to charge him and we're going to take him to trial for violating the guy's civil
rights. Just like they did with the Rodney King cops, right? So we're going to take you to trial
and so they take him to, they take him to trial.
This is no good. So they, so they take him to trial and halfway through the trial,
basically Justin pleads guilty like 30 years because he could see where it was going. There's
no way I'm winning this. So he pleads guilty to 30 years. What? What happened? Somebody said
they would pay $100 for the rat if you drew a wiener on it. Send the $100. Send the $100 first
and we'll do it. So what happened is, is Justin and put your address on the 100, on the message
with the 100. Yeah. Justin never really had any problems in federal prison. He pleaded guilty.
This is a guy who arrested a guy and then shoved the baton in his fucking ass. You think that,
that, that these guys don't want to kill him? Never had any problems. They sent him to protective
custody prison. He said, I've had a few, he told me I've had a few times like I've been in fights,
but it didn't have to do with that. And he said, it also, he said, I've had a few issues before,
but he said, you know, just guys making a comment here or there or a rumor or something. He said,
but nothing, he said, nothing like you think. Nobody ever attacked me. I was never got beat up.
There weren't four or five guys got me in a room and beat me up. Nothing like that. He's
having that perfect. I met him. I'm in the low. He's fine. He was fine. He got out.
So the idea that, that they're going to do anything to that cop, the most likely if the
guy's smart, he's going to say, look, he's right now negotiating. If I was him, I'd go to the feds
and say, look, I'll plead guilty to violating this guy's civil rights and I'll take a plea for murder
as long as I can do my time in the fed instead of in the state. Because the state, there's a much
better chance something could go wrong. Protective custody in the state is way different than
protective custody in the feds. Protective custody in most states is going to be, you're
basically almost locked up all the time. Is this cop in the feds that killed George Floyd?
No, he's right now. He's probably in the state, but I'm saying I wouldn't be shocked if the feds
don't charge him or haven't charged him or if they're not waiting to charge him with violating
Floyd's civil rights. It's possible. So to me, why don't you just take your plea
and then turn around and go to the feds and say, look, I'll plead guilty to violating his civil
rights. Let me do my time at the same time as my state and I'll do it in the feds. Because then
you're going to be in a better situation. They got a better chance of taking care of you.
So I mean, I don't see him getting killed in the, you know, I don't see that happening.
No. But I should do a whole podcast on that because then I could really like I'd like to do
that because then I could really go in and explain the different cases like, you know,
not much. I don't have to go into detail, but I can say, look, this is the guy's name. This is
what happened. I met this guy. I met this cop. I met, you know, I met a bunch of cops in federal
prison. Bunches of them. I met judges. You remember the judge cashed for kids?
Yeah, what was the judge in for? He was in for, he and a couple other judges
were getting kickbacks for a private, a private juvenile facility. So if you're a kid and you
get caught breaking windows, you're a 11 year old kid or a 14 year old kid and you come before me,
you should get like three months probation, right? You broke some windows. You got to pay back and
you get three bunch probation and bad boy and okay, you broke some windows. But if I sentenced you
to 18 months in, or 18 months in this private facility, then the county or the state gives
the private facility this much, you know, X amount of dollars to take care of you for 18 months.
And he gets a kickback. So, so before you know it, kids are coming in. They're supposed to get
it getting a probation and they're getting 18 months, 22 months, 19 months, but and this is
going on and he's he's raking in money. They call it cash for kids and eventually they get caught.
There's a book on it. They eventually they get caught and he pleads guilty to like 20 or 30 years.
Oh, fuck. Yeah, I talked to him. When did that happen? When was this going on? Maybe 10 years ago?
Really? I remember being in prison when it happened and watching it on CNN and they were talking about
it. What's his name? I mean, how do you guys, it's cash for kids. I've never heard of it.
Cash for clunkers. No, no.
There's a documentary on him. Yeah, bro. He was a cash for kids.
Yeah, kickbacks from sending juvenile offenders to prison, even for minor crimes. Yeah.
How many judges were involved in this? I think he there was an American, I want to say there was an
American greed on him. Really? You know, I've met like six guys. So it was one judge or was it multiple
judges? No, there was a couple judges. I want to say there was like two judges. One of which you
were in with and you met. Yeah, I want to say there's two or three. I could be wrong. They remember
his name. I mean, you could sit right now. You've got it. It says the director's name, but it doesn't
say the judge's name.
Yeah, there. There was multiple, multiple.
Now spoke with one of the young people who spent almost a year. Michael judges in 2008
judges Michael Kona hand, Kona hand. Yeah, Kona hand. I know Kona hand and Mark
Sia Varela were accused of accepting money in return for imprisoning harsh, imposing harsh
educations on juveniles to increase occupancy at for profit detention centers. Yeah. And they were
basically they were getting kickbacks. That's crazy. Right. You met Michael. Yeah. I
read a story on that. Walk the track with him a bunch of times. Actually, do you remember
John Boziak, the kid that I wrote the story about about bent, which is credit card credit card kid.
Boziak, I remember, you know, to double check some of the stuff that Boziak was telling me about being
in these, these juvenile facilities. I actually went to, to, you know, the judge and I said,
you know, hey, you know, can I talk to you for a minute? And he was like, yeah, what's going on?
And I explained to him, look, I'm writing the story about this guy here about this kid. Here's
what happened. He was a kid. He was like 13 years old. I started explaining how things happened.
And I said, it doesn't make sense to me that they had sentenced them once.
He got, he ran away from the facility. They grab him again. They sentenced him again
and sent him to another facility. They sent it. Then the next time they catch him,
they sentenced him. Basically, they just say, look, your award of the state now,
because his mother had abandoned him. And we're going to have you stay at this juvenile facility,
which is basically a homeless facility for juveniles. I said, but it wasn't,
like he said he could leave. He could come back. He could, I said, they didn't lock him up this
time. Does that make sense that you keep running away and eventually they don't try and keep you
locked up in a juvenile prison? And he goes, and he went, of course. He goes, yeah, why? I went,
yeah, but he ran away. And he goes, yeah, but he's a juvenile. And he goes, look, he said,
how much do you want the state to dump into this kid? He's, he's a, he's a bad kid.
He was, I mean, we locked him up once. He ran away. We locked him up against. He ran away. He
was, I mean, how many times do we have to get, he was, and now his mother's abandoned him.
He's awarded the state. He said, so what do you do? You do the best you can. You say, hey,
here's a place you can stay. Please go to school. Here's some programs. And I go, but he's a kid.
He goes, yeah, but you know, we, you just can't keep dumping money into these kids. I go, yeah,
he ended up on the street. And he's like, how much money, how much money were these detention
centers getting paid every time that the judge would sentence them? I don't know. I don't know
that number. I just know that they were getting, they were, they, look, they filled up, they filled
up the private facility and they closed down the, the, the state facility and the private facilities
paying these, these judges. So they're hammering away at these fucking kids who should be getting
probation. Is that fucked up? We're talking about thousands of kids. You imagine you're a little
kid, you should get, you should get three months probation. You get 18 months and they're putting
you in with 15, 16, 17 years old, old kids. You're 11 years old and you're not really a danger.
These kids are doing carjackings. These are, are real monsters that are yanking people out of
their cars or breaking into people's windows. You knocked out some, so you knocked out a window in
a house, you know, or you stole some sneakers. You get 18 months. You stole a sub from Publix.
Wow. Right. Right. The golf cart. Yeah. Seen it a million times. That's, that's,
yeah, that's, uh, that's rough. Well, anyway, every, every private prison gets paid a certain
amount of money per inmate, right? No matter what they're in for. Yeah. Of course you have to pay
them. And that this, this happens continuously every day. Even today it happens. Yes. But you
can't pay the judges to sentence people. You can't give them kickbacks. Right. Now it's a
conflict of interest. Now there's an incentive, but there's still, I mean, there's an incentive
right now with whether the judges are getting paid or not because the prison system, it's like,
well, it's a business. It's a huge business. And there's a huge incentive to convict people.
Right. Right. Which is why it's so hard if you don't have money. Which is why we have the largest
incarceration rate of any, any country anywhere. Right. You know. And the prison system. So we
either have this entire country's just, and the prison, the prison system, like, or somewhere
doing something wrong. Or no, or no, the way most Americans think of it. No, no, we're doing it right.
The whole world's doing it wrong. We're right. Yeah. That's what's happening.
So anyway, yeah. So that judge, he was there. He never got beat up.
You know, I mean, I know, I know lots of guys that, that were there for protective custody.
You can't send that judge to a regular low or a regular medium. Or, you know what would happen
to him in Yazoo? Or, and that's a low, in a low, man, them dudes have beat the tar out of that
motherfucker. Beat him to a pulp. Oh my God. You know, look, so that, though, I don't,
nothing's going to happen to that cop. He's going to be fine.
Really? Yeah. They're going to send him to some place. They're going to take care of him. They're
going to make sure he's okay. Because the truth is, is if you let someone like that get killed,
then the next time a cop gets, gets grabbed, or next time somebody does something where
their high profile, they don't take a plea. They go to trial and you can't have everybody go to
trial. The whole system would collapse. Yeah. It's too much money, right? Yeah. If everybody said,
I'm going to trial, they would be like, what? Yeah. I'm going to trial and I want a speedy
trial right now. They jump from having 50 or a couple hundred trials at the courthouse a month
to 9,000. And they'd be like, what are we going to do? Well, we, we have to start giving out
reasonable sentences. So. Wow. But now I'm getting preachy. Yeah, you are. I'm sorry, man. I'm sorry.
I get, I get upset. It's good. That's really interesting. That's a really, I didn't know about
that. I hate to be preachy. I hate to be, I hate it when these guys get on there and they start
how unfair it is and how this, this is unfair and that's unfair. Come on, bro. You were robbing
banks. I mean, what are you doing? You went to trial. You know, right. But a lot of people
aren't robbing banks. No, a lot of people aren't doing much of anything and they end up getting
10 years. Those are the guys like if you're, if you're, if you get a sentence that's reasonable,
you got the sentence that's reasonable. Nobody ever thinks that they, nobody ever thinks that
that sentence, I've only met one or two people that said, I, what the sentence I got was reasonable.
I'm lucky I got that sentence. Literally, I've met maybe two or three people. Boziak, John Boziak,
the credit card kid should have gotten 12 years. He ended up with two. Two. Because of a mistake.
By a simple mistake that his lawyer caught just before he signed,
lawyer goes back, goes to the prosecutor and says, he's not pleading this, we're going to trial,
we're going to do this, we're going to do that because you didn't have a warrant because of this,
because of this, because of this and the, and the, and the last minute and, and the, the U.S.
Attorney came back and he goes, well, okay, fine. I'll drop that, but he's got to plead guilty to
aggravated identity theft and he got 24 months instead of 12 years. Nice. So first of all, amazing
public defender. Oh yeah. Secondly, the only other guy, well, I know another guy, but this is a guy,
another guy was, he was on meth. He'd been up for five days. He was a long-distance
trucker. He was driving through a, um, a national park. Just so happened to like the highway or
something when some road went through a national park, federal property, and he was up and he
dozed off and he ran over two hikers. Like he went off the road and knocked them both just done.
They're done. Wait, wait, woke up in the hospital. He said, he said, I don't remember any of it.
So I was driving, last thing I remember driving, I woke up in the hospital
like a day or two later. It's happened to Shane a couple of times.
Damn. He didn't hit anybody though. Um, I hope. So he killed two people. Now they came to him and
they said, you're going, there was no like vehicular manslaughter in the federal system
for some reason. They just didn't have it on the books. I guess they didn't think, well,
the vehicle or that's not federal or whatever. I don't know what the reason is. So they came
to him and he pled guilty to two murders and they gave him 15 years. And I remember thinking
15 years, I just got in 26 years for bank fraud and I was like, are you, are you appealing it?
And he looked at me and he went, I got 15 years for murdering two people. He said, I got a good deal.
He said, I'm happy. They were, they did right by me. He was, I'm not appealing nothing.
I'm just doing the time. He said, I got lucky that that's all I got. And I remember thinking,
if I remember thinking about it, I thought, absolutely, you're right. You know, I initially,
it was like, Oh, what are you doing to find and fix it? And you didn't, I didn't really
kick back and think, Oh, wait a second. Once he said that, I thought, Oh, no, you're absolutely
right. You're right. You're on meth for five days. You're driving. You killed two people walking
along. And I'm, and I understand it's, it's vehicular manslaughter. It's not like a murder,
but you're definitely contributed a lot to it by taking meth and you knew people were in danger.
And so I started thinking about it and I thought, no, no, that's a reasonable sentence. And I'm
sure his family thinks that's not a reasonable sentence. He should have been executed. But
to somebody who's maybe driven drunk or done drugs or something like that, they probably think
that's probably reasonable. He didn't mean to kill anybody. And you know, you have to balance
the anger with what's reasonable for society. And you know, everybody's always like, Oh,
that guy should get this much. That guy should get that this much. Fuck him until they get pulled
over for a DUI. And they're supposed to do a year in prison. They're like, I shouldn't go to jail
for it. What are you talking about? You endangered every person's life on the road. Every person's
life you could have killed. You should be there. No, it's not what happened. I was just a couple
days that they start because it affects you or their child. Yeah, you know, see, I'm getting
preachy. How many how many people like that that you meet when you were in prison? How many people
are like have the attitude that guy that killed almost nobody really 99% of the people I got too
much time or I didn't do this or this is bullshit or there's just wine and bitch and moan and cry.
And it's just fucking horrible. And it's just like, you know, especially when you hear some guy
that's just like, you're like, Jesus, God, I might be, you know, you, you know, you did this,
you did that, you did, you know, you meet some guy who was kidnapping people and got 10 years
for kidnapping guys and taking like a taser to their testicles because the guy borrowed money
from a Romanian mobster and they duck tied them to a tape to a chair and they were taking a fucking
one of those cattle prod things and hitting them in the nuts until he comes up with the money.
I mean, you're like, what the hell? And that's all he got 10 years. I know guys,
you know, kidnapping, I know guys who and he thought he thought it was unjust. He thought his 10
years was unjust. He thought that he got fucked. I don't know. I don't want to say I don't remember
what exactly his position, but I was a probably a bad example because I don't remember what I'm
saying. In general, a lot of people, they do stuff and they just don't think that they should, you
know, they went into a bank with a gun and they got, you know, 10 years and they're like, and
you're like, yeah, but you robbed like four places, you know, and you had a gun and what if
I wasn't going to kill nobody or it doesn't matter that you weren't going to kill anybody. I mean,
you know what I'm saying? You went in with the gun, something could have happened. What if something
happened? What if somebody got killed? Yeah, but they didn't, you know, and they're bitching
and moaning. I should have gotten a few years and was there any consistencies between all these
people that you could see that you could that you kind of tell like any sort of personality traits
between the people who thought they were in there unjustly and they didn't deserve it versus the
people like you who thought that you deserve to be in there. There were so few people.
Is that PayPal? What's that? My fucking girlfriend. She was $25 for a $1 bill signed T-Rex.
Because she, I told you she jokes. She always says that I'm like, I have little T-Rex arms.
That's nice. Seller, send the PayPal. Here's the problem. Is that, yeah, yeah, exactly. Send the,
send the PayPal. Send it, Jess. Listen, you know what's so funny is like, and then I'll get her
in bed and I'll be tickling her to the point where she's in tears crying and can't breathe and I'm
just, and she's like, stop, stop. And then, you know, these are the kinds of things. Oh, I just like
really dig my fingers into her ribs. The claws. The claws. Yeah. And then, yeah.
You make the T-Rex noise when you do it. And she's like, stop, stop. It's horrible. And then this
is the kind of thing, this is why. This is why. But you can probably tickle her so well because
your hands are so small that you can just like fit in all the little grannies. You know what she
sends me? It's a little sausage fingers. Oh, oh nice. She actually sent a little T-Rex with it.
And she'll send me, she'll actually send me little T-Rex like fucking memes or something,
what do they call them? Gifts. Yeah. Kind of. Yeah, the gifts ones that move. Yeah, she's just mean,
just a mean spirited, just horrible. That's probably because you tickle her so much. That she has it
coming. I mean, to the point where like the next day she's like, you understand, I have bruises,
I have, I'll stop with that. Listen, how do you earn a tickling though? Like she has it coming?
She'll make some snide comment. Listen, it's a constant. I can't even imagine the situation
where I would tickle. Yeah. Are you serious? That's the retribution for an action. Are you
done? I'm going to tickle the fuck out of you. Oh, bro. I mean, I can understand like tickling
a child, like it's a fun thing. Like your kid, like you tickle your kid. I tickle. Look at all
these, but your wife or your girlfriend is kind of weird. This is kind of weird, man. This is all,
like, these are all like T-Rex little things she's sending me with T-Rex here, T-Rex there.
She got the one where the guy, where the T-Rex can't get to, he's trying to bend over and he
can't reach the thing and his little thing. I mean, she does it, and she does it all the time.
Like I'll be in the car, I'll drop something, I'll go to lean over and grab it and I like,
can't get to it. And she just burst into out laughing and I'm like, I mean, it's bound by my
feet. I mean, what is that? Nobody could reach that. I mean, it's just horrible. This is mean.
Somebody said they want a T-Rex sex tape and they'd pay $100 for it.
Send the money. No. You got to get a, you got a Patreon.
Yeah, I do have Patreon. I don't think anybody really put, I got like, I think I do. I've like,
you know, I have a few people that, that donate to it.
I got a comment questions. Let's ask, let's ask a couple more questions and we got to end it.
Wrap this up. I'm, I'm hungry. You know what I've had to eat today? I've had like coffee today,
and I've had a couple of handfuls of peanuts because, and I didn't eat. No, no, that's not
true. I also had the top of a blueberry muffin to come here because I thought there's a chance. I
even told Jess, I said, I'm going to get a blueberry muffin because there's a chance that Danny doesn't
feed me. She says, no, he said, have I ever not fed you? Name one time I haven't fed you.
You haven't, but you know, there's, there was a chance. So I'm glad I got it. Sure.
Questions. Some of these are questions. Some of these aren't. Danny, 100% asked his mom in middle
school for leg extensions. He's got a lot in common with Matt. True story, by the way. That's from
Kyle Roberts. What happened? Kyle Roberts. Somebody's claiming that I asked my mom for leg extensions.
Is that true? Yes, that's true. That's true. If he said it. It's got to be. No way. That guy said
it. It's definitely true. See the guy sent 50. Damn. Somebody sent 50? Whoa. Hey, Matt. So if I
wanted a smallish painting done of a person kneeling down at night with a half gallon
gas cans in each hand, spread out, head down. This person is wearing a hoodie and behind this
person is a burning bridge. How can we make this happen? What is it? I don't know. Can you repeat the
question? It's a guy kneeling down with gas cans in his hands and a bridge burning in the background.
What's that? I mean, somebody just paid Matt $150. What? Oh, sick. What's that for? That's for the rat
painting with the dick. Oh, I guess that. Do I mean to make sure that confirmed that that's the same
person? Yeah. How do I know that? You see it? Unepic. Who just sent us $150? Yeah, everyone's
going to say it was them. Some guy sent five bucks said what's the craziest thing that happened in the
feds. Wait, wait. I want to hear the guy who said who sent 50. What did he say? He wants a painting.
I got to read that again. Yeah, read that again. I read that really bad. 150. So I was reading it
in my head. Well, I think I don't know why he sent 50, but. Hey, Matt. So if I wanted a smallish
painting done of a person kneeling down at night with a half gallon gas cans in each hand, spread
out, head down, this person is wearing a hoodie and behind this person is a burning bridge.
How can we make this happen? So it's like something very specific. This guy burned a
fucking bridge down. This guy burned a bridge or he knows somebody that burned a bridge. So like
burn. Is it kind of like tied to the the term burning bridge? Burning bridge. Maybe. Like a
relationship or something. Maybe it's a play on it. Sure. Maybe. How much? I don't know. Small
painting. Small. How much? It's like a couple hundred. Look, it's it's 200 bucks. It's it's
I mean 200 bucks plus you got to ship it and that's a small little painting. Right. Like the size of
the rat. That size painting for 200 bucks. I'd go a little bit bigger than that. For 200. So
was that 150 definitely for the guy who wanted the the rat picture with the dick on it? I have no
idea. I think so. It's going to be it's going to be as some guy that wants a rat with no dick and
draw dick on it. I specifically said no dick.
It's going to show up with a dick on it. Bro, look, Jess sent me 25 bucks. I saw the nice.
That I didn't realize that. That was I was showing. See what you decided T-Rex. Unbelievable.
I can't keep you from all the hustles I'm doing. Oh, I hope. This guy's saying. When I see her tomorrow.
Oh, this is getting tickled.
When the tickle man comes for you. What do you say? What do you do? You guys just tickle her.
I bro tickle the fuck out of her, Matt. Unbelievable. I see. What's that?
Draw a little T-Rex. Oh, yeah. Yeah. This guy touched by pros.
What? He sent you $100 for the, he wants you to draw a dick on it. That's not the guy who
said the money on there though. Yeah. He said 150. Oh. Matt, this guy sent five. He said,
did you ever get pressed to join a gang? No. Look at him as soft as cotton. Nobody wants me in their
gang. What am I going to do? Their books? Yeah, you're doing, you're the bookkeeper. What am I
going to do? Nobody's, trust me. They don't want me a member of their gang.
I said, tell Matt to check his PayPal. I sent 100 for the live drawing of the rat with the
wiener attitude. I mean, it's, it's 150. Somebody said 150, bro. Somebody said 150.
I think it's this guy because he's given a bunch of money too in the chat. He's probably given
the 20 in the chat on top of that. Let me see it. I just received 25 bucks. So I just drew a T-Rex.
What's the name on there? Don't say what that is. Ask him, ask him to comment what his,
where it came from on Instagram, like what his name, or on PayPal. Like what was his PayPal name
from what, like what's his account name on PayPal? Okay, there's, there's, and as long as it says
that, he's got to send the address. This is Jesse's T-Rex. Oh, let's see it. Hold up the camera.
Full T-Rex. I didn't see it.
A little T-Rex. There's your little, me. So much trouble. I mean, I'm gonna, I mean,
it's gonna be bad, bro. Like, it's gonna be bad. I cannot believe none of you. I cannot believe you
guys think that like tickling you, you don't tick, what do you do to, you don't wrestle with your
girlfriend? Listen, I'm gonna throw on the ground and throw on the bed and grab her and you give her
the RKO. Razzle. Razzle. What do you do? You don't visit, you're not physical with them? What do
you do? It's just, hey baby, you give them a little peck and that's it. You make it sound like you're
either like allergic to your significant other, you're tickling them and there's nothing in the
middle. I mean, that's, I'm, listen, I'm, I'm a physical person. I'm either punching them or
you're tickling them. People are sending money. I mean, the worst thing is, the worst thing is the
other, the other day I was on top of her and I was trying to, and she's grabbed my arms and she's
holding me and I literally couldn't get out from underneath her grip. And I remember, I actually
physically stopped for a second and went and thought, I gotta start working out. I mean, she's
really strong. Yeah. This is, it's ridiculous. Hey, some guy sent 10 bucks. He said, how does he
get in touch with you to get a painting? It's, I mean, my, you know, my emails. What's your email
address? It's, it's, is it on your website? You know how you can do, you know, go to, go to inside,
you can go to inside truecrime.com and people, and people contact me through, because you can
leave a message. It, and it's also got my email address on it. Okay. So you can,
inside truecrime.com, go there and go to contact and you'll find everything. You can,
absolutely. People contact me all the time through, through that. Fair enough.
What's the craziest thing you saw on the feds? Oh, that's this, this guy again.
What was the, what, the cra, I mean, I, I, I, you know, it, in, in what?
Crazy beatdowns or nothing? I mean, bro, I told, I mean,
What was the craziest? I watched a, a Jamaican guy and I, I think, I don't know, one was Jamaican,
one was, I don't know, I watched two guys, the guy get beat over the beat with a,
it's so horrible to laugh at this. I, he had took a broom handle, the guy sat in his chair a couple
times and he told him not to do it again. The guy, you know, look, your chair, like your, your,
oh, sorry, your TV, like you've got a TV chair, you have a TV chair, you have a spot, right?
You have your own chair. You have your own chair. So you got like this little spot.
Check where that came from. So we can double check it.
What says his name? I mean, it says where it's from, right?
Right, right there. From, yeah. So what happens is, is you have a little spot,
like this is where I sit every day and this is my, and other guys might be like, Hey man,
can I sit in your spot? You're like, Yeah, okay, bro, but you know, tonight,
and so you kind of own it and, and guys will protect it. It's like their little piece of
real estate. They actually act like they own it. They don't actually own it.
And this is the most fucked up thing you saw? What you're getting, what you're getting to right
now? I mean, it's one, I couldn't pick one. Look, bro, I was standing next to a guy one time,
when there was a Mexican guy here and another Mexican came up and he had a, he had a,
like a, a belt and they looped it through a lock and he ran up behind him and,
and thumped him right in the back of the head multiple times, split his head open, split his
head. Not once, hit him, hit him, hit him. The guy fell down, got up, hit him again,
fell down, got hit up. And the guy wants to hit him like three or four times.
The guy was bleeding so much, you can't believe how much this guy was bleeding out of his skull.
It was just disgusting. He didn't die? No, he didn't die. The whole thing was over,
I mean, in prison, you know, they over a palm. He was a chomo, right? No, he wasn't. This was in
the medium. It was over a punk. It was over, this guy is sleeping with her, having sex with this
guy's punk. And so he attacked him. I mean, these guys are fighting over sexual partners.
It's, it's, it's insanity. It's fucking insane. But the worst thing I told you that,
it's like that, it's like that fucking that was Lord of the Flies. Oh, it's just, it's just,
they turn into that, you turn, they turn into their monsters. Absolutely. Absolutely. Guys are
fighting over anything. Like you borrowed a magazine and didn't return it. You're disrespectful,
bro. You know, oh man, I lost your magazine, man. What do you want me to do? Man, you owe me this.
And it's like, what are you doing? I know, I know a guy that got stabbed one time. Go back to your
story that you started about the guy who took you to someone's chair. Okay. Well, I knew a guy
that got stabbed one time because when he walked by another guy, the one guy went like this and
the other guy didn't notice it. So he didn't, you know, go what's up back. And the other guy,
because he was bipolar, in his mind, he turned that into a completely disrespectful,
this guy's not showing me the respect he needs. And within 30, 45 minutes, he worked himself up
in such a frenzy, he went and got a fucking shank, walked up the other guy and stabbed him in the
back because I didn't go. What's up? Right. I didn't see you. God damn. Guy stabbed him. So I mean,
it's just, it's just insanity. So, but the other guy basically, he had sat in his spot, told him
not to do it again. Guy sat in it again. Guy came in, saw him sitting in his spot, went into the
broom closet, wherever, got a fucking, got a mop handle, came back, walked up behind him and bow,
just smashed him in the head with the mop, with the back of the mop handle. Guy fell forward,
hit the ground, lay there for a second, then kind of woke up and then realized what happened and then
ran up the stairs after the other guy and they fought on the second tier for
four or five minutes and you've seen people fight. Four or five minutes is an exhausting
amount of time to fight. They fought and fought and fought and fought. When it was over, there was
blood, there was one of the guys that lost like a gold tooth, dreads had been pulled out of the
hair. I mean, it was, it was just like, it was all over a four square foot piece of real estate
that neither one of you fuckers owns because this is my spot. It's my only piece of real estate.
It all really boils down to real estate. It all boils down to real estate. I mean, just, you know,
just pure stupidity. Guy was staying there fraudulently on his real estate. He was squatting.
The worst thing, the worst thing I saw, I told you this, the worst thing I saw
was in the library. It was in the library. Yeah. We all remember that story.
Horrible. Horrible. Just a grown man reduced to begging and pleading. Please baby. Please baby.
Please baby. Oh yeah. It's just so pathetic. You check your PayPal. He said that this is
email. So if that's in the PayPal, that's the guy that's saying he sent you the $150.
You might as well say it. He typed it in the chat.
Yes. You have to check his email. Yeah, you got to log in. Tony. He's probably a hacker. He's
going to, he's probably going to hack into me. He's scamming you. Let's wrap it up. We just did
like two and a half hour podcast. Got a couple more things. Couple more. Okay. Couple more things.
Paying questions. Who do we have to Hillary in order to get Matt Cox on the Joe Rogan show?
I have no idea what that means. Who do we have to Hillary? Oh. Suicide maybe.
Who you got to kill? Yeah, who you got to kill? Yeah. Who you got to suicide? That's this one.
Right. So that would be the email. Yeah, that's the email. Is that her? That's not his email.
That's his email.
There's some dead air going on here folks. Whoa. Okay. Well, I mean I will, I will figure it out
only in the show. I'll figure it out as soon as I go. You can contact them through PayPal,
but you can email them back on PayPal. Okay. Yeah, because it's got, it's got their,
I'll go to my PayPal account tomorrow and, and, and hit everybody up. Awesome. But so if it's
definitely there, it's there. I'll, I'll grab you. Well, that was a fun podcast. Thanks for your time,
Matt. Let's eat and we're going to go. Yeah, man. We need the, not crab. I don't want crab.
We'll go get you some chicken. It's disgusting. It's breaking stuff up and
did I sell this painting? Yeah. We, I think we sold the rat. Whoever paid you that 150,
we're going to send that rat to you. Yeah. Oh, I'm going to send it. Listen, people,
people mail me books all the time and I sign them and send them right back and do the whole,
and do the whole thing. All right, Matt, hit them, hit, hit the audience with where they can
follow you and subscribe to you and all that jazz. Yeah, man. Listen, I need subscribers on my channel.
I got a bunch of inside true crime on stories. I'm posting a movie reviews. You got to hit the
notification button. I've got merchandise. I've got, bro, and I do you saw my merch, right? My
say, it's not like it's not just little kind. It's not kind of like I went all in. Did you see
what the fine arts took? I got some great merchandise. I got some cool shit. You're
killing it. You know, you didn't even see it. You're just lying. I know what you're talking about.
Anyway, go go to the store, check it out, try some stuff inside to really give you a true
review of your merch. Are you? What? Did you see it? No, no, you don't want to see it. What do
you talk? No, what do you mean? Thumbnail that he made those great. Are you joking out of the
bullet hole? Are you joking? No, no, no, my merch is good stuff, bro. I am. I'm pissed now. I can't
believe I'm being critiqued by Danny. Oh man. So upsetting. God forbid. You should tickle him.
Yeah, don't tickle me. Please don't tickle me. I don't understand. I don't understand what the
cops are doing. Look, it's not the first time a grown man has tickled you. All right, so here's
a deep question. Got a $20 question. That's a deep one. You can read it. Look, so this is.
We need the merch review first. Yeah, that's Ben, which is the story. Okay. These are his
t-shirts. What are you looking at? Oh, cool. Well, you got the logo. Tell them the truth,
Lou. Don't sugarcoat it. It's fine. It's a shirt. It's fine. It's fine arts is what it is. Here's
my, you're not even helping, bro. I mean, it's like, how do you need to click on an image? All
right, so that's the true crime. That's the logo. It's a logo for the shirt. I mean, for the for
the channel. And then every story has its own shirt. Yeah. Yeah. It looks great. And everybody
should go buy one. Oh my God. All right. All right. It's, I mean, you could have tried it. You
know, all right, I love this. Let's read the last question. Last question. What do you want to say?
It's a fucking beautiful t-shirt. It's a goddamn shirt. You can mow the lawn in it. Great.
Drop a bomb. I got a buddy named Jacob. Jacob Diaz actually wrote a story about him called The
Unlikely in Arco. I remember that one. He just sent me a text. Oh, did he? Yeah, yeah. You should,
I talked to him, didn't I? You should do a podcast. I talked to him, Ari, didn't I?
I don't know. I don't know if you called him. I don't know what happened with that.
What was that $20 question we just got? Do you take time to introspectively examine yourself
and who you are? I assume while you were in prison, you had plenty of opportunities to do so.
I was just thinking, I mean, for God's sakes, I had 12 years. Yeah, I'd say for about six years,
I was irritated and upset and felt I had not gotten, I got too much time and this and that. I
still think I got too much time. But I mean, you know, after about six or seven years, you kind of
realize you meet enough people, you kind of look at the whole thing and look at the situation,
look at the people that you impacted and the victims and the damage that you caused and to
yourself and to everybody else. And you start to kind of go, well, you know, if enough people out
there say you're an asshole, you're probably an asshole. And so at some point you kind of go,
okay, well, enough people are saying I'm basically a scumbag. I clearly must have behaved like a
scumbag. You start to look at it. And I mean, I definitely did look at it. And you know,
I don't think anybody even believes that. Does this apply to the comment section too?
If a bunch of people say some shit about you in the comments, does that mean it's true?
You mean like that you're unprofessional and you're a fucking idiot?
Talentless, retarded? You know, I think there's a lot of trolls, so. But in general, I think,
absolutely, I mean, I went to prison, look, they didn't send me to fucking prison because I was
a saint because I didn't have it coming. It's not like I went to trial. It's not like I said,
I'm not guilty and I went to trial and this and that. Fucking guilty, knew I was guilty, always
knew I was guilty. Didn't think I should have got 20 years, 26 years, still don't.
But I honestly probably deserve to get 10 years.
Absolutely. It was a fucked up situation. There's 100 different factors and there's
just no way to justify it. So for me to even sit here and say, well, you got to understand,
this is what happened is what happened was I was just a complete fucking greedy derelict
narcissistic fucking scumbag and I had at least a 10 year fucking sentence coming and I'll pay
for it, not only for the 10 years, I'll pay for it for five more years of probation and I'll pay
for it for the rest of my fucking life. And it's never going to be the same. And I'll never recover.
And there are people that lost money and I'm going to do what I can to pay them back, but the truth
is I'm paying back $6 million that I didn't get $6 million. I didn't see $6 million. They sold
a bunch of property. They got a bunch of stuff back. But the bottom line is it'll follow me the
rest of my life and there will never be, I'll probably never recoup from it. But I'm lucky I'm
out. I'm thrilled to be out. I'm thankful that I'm out. Bro, being in fucking prison and my
out date was 20 fucking 30. How can I get out now and be pissed because somebody cut me off?
Or because I'm living in Stacey's spare room. I'm thankful that Stacey's got a spare room for me.
Fucking date and a chick that's amazing. She's hilarious. She's funny. She deals with me. She
puts up with my shit. Not locked up. I'm not fucking locked up. She puts up with your tickling.
She puts up with the tickling. Short arms. I mean, come on. I'll take it, bro. I'll take it.
Yeah. I'll take shit from people. I'm thrilled. Anything beats fucking beats that. It sucks.
It's a great look at it. You know what the worst part of it was? Towards the end,
the last few years, it just didn't bother me at all anymore. It really, the last four or five years,
I had a good routine and I was okay and I didn't think about the outside anymore. And I'm still
coping with figuring out how to focus on the outside. You're asking me questions that everybody
else knows. I don't watch the news. I don't watch TV because I got used to not really watching TV.
I got used to just not paying attention to those things. I have these little things that I like
to do and I'm still doing them. I like to research the stories and write the stories. I'm now starting
to understand the YouTube and the this and the that. I have my own little tiny world. There's
a massive fucking world out and I'm still focused on my little tiny world. I'm slowly getting better,
but it's fucking 12 and a half years, bro. Yeah, I'm fucked up. I wouldn't know that
non-fucked up when I went in. So, you know, I don't think I answered that question properly,
but what are that's the best you're getting? That was a $20 answer. That was a $20 answer,
for sure. Well, thanks again, Matt. Let's go eat. Let's go. End it, Austin. Awesome.
