We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello world.
Today my guest is Stephen Kinzer.
Stephen is an award-winning foreign correspondent
who has covered more than 50 countries on five continents.
His articles and books have actually led the Washington Post
to place him among the best
in popular foreign policy storytelling.
And he's spent more than 20 years
working for the New York Times.
On this podcast, we dive deep into Stephen's most recent work,
studying the CIA's secret drug and mind control experiments
of the early 50s to 60s in the CIA's Poisoner-in-Chief,
Sidney Gottlieb, who conducted brutal experiments
using pills, powders and potions and LSD
in an attempt to control people's minds,
including people like Fidel Castro
and other foreign leaders.
Stephen is a super interesting guy
and this podcast was absolutely mind-bending.
I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Without further ado, please welcome
Stephen Kinzer.
Just to start this thing off for our audience
that aren't familiar with who you are, Mr. Kinzer.
Why don't you just give everyone a brief background
on who you are?
So I'm a recovering journalist.
I was a foreign correspondent for many years.
I worked for the New York Times for more than 20 years.
I was most of it as a foreign correspondent.
So I've covered dozens of countries all over the world.
After some decades of doing that,
I became interested in how all the events
that I witnessed tied together,
everything went by so fast as I was reporting it.
And I had very big events in the world,
like the last gasps of Marxist people's revolution
in Central America, the emergence of post-communist Europe,
say Central Asia and the Caucasus emerging
as new regions.
But what did it all mean?
How did it all fit together?
I also became increasingly persuaded
as a foreign correspondent that there's a certain amount
of what happens in the world that we can see.
But there's also a deal that happens behind the curtain.
And I always wondered if there wouldn't be some way
to look behind that curtain,
find out a little bit more of what is the reality
behind the politics and the public policy that we can see.
So as a result of all that,
I left the news and just devoted my last decade or so
to writing books and teaching,
trying to put together some structure and meaning
out of all the stories I saw
and try to draw some lessons from the crises
and developments in the world that I've watched.
So your audio cut out a little bit,
but I believe you said New York Times
is the publication you worked for.
When did you start working as a journalist
for the New York Times?
How old were you?
I had been working as a news reporter in Latin America
and then as the Boston Globe Latin correspondent.
It became clear in the early 1980
that Central America was going to become a big story.
The New York Times wanted to hire somebody
who was familiar with Central America
and who had experience working for a daily newspaper.
So on January 2nd, 1983,
I went to work for the New York Times.
I was sent to Nicaragua.
I lived there for six years
as the New York Times bureau chief.
I covered the whole Contra War
as well as conflicts in El Salvador, Guatemala.
Then from there,
to become the New York Times bureau chief in Germany.
I ran the bureau in Berlin
and from there I covered the emergence
of post-communist Europe
and unified Germany as well as wars in former Yugoslavia.
So I had a second set of wars.
I had the Central America wars.
Then I had the Yugoslavia wars.
And I did some part of the world including in Iraq and in Iran
when I went to be the New York Times bureau chief in Turkey.
So I lived in Istanbul
and I was actually the first New York Times bureau chief there
and from there I covered Central Asia
and the Caucasus.
So I got to have quite a range of experiences.
I was watching a Midsummer Night's dream the other night
and there was a line in there that struck me.
Maybe it applies to my experience at the New York Times.
One of the performers says,
I have had a dream past the wit of man
to see what dream it was.
Now you've done a lot of or you obviously know a lot
about like the history of the regime changes
that we've been a part of and Iran.
My question I guess is what is your view
on the US's relationship with Iran right now,
especially like during the Trump era
and where do you think it's going right now
with current politics with Joe Biden
potentially taking office
and where do you see us now and in the future?
History of US-Iran relations is really a tragedy
of lost opportunities and misunderstandings.
To this day, I think Iranians and Americans
see that history in completely different ways.
They're like parallel train tracks.
Our two interpretations just never coincide.
So from the American standpoint,
US-Iran relations again and again in 1980, 1979.
So that was the period when our Shah
who had been our faithful ally for 25 years
and who we had installed on the peacock throne
was overthrown.
And then our diplomats were taken hostage.
This started a cycle of bitterness against Iran.
And as far as we understood at the time,
which was very little,
those Iranians who took our diplomats hostage
were nothing but nihilistic savages
who did this in violation of every law of God and man.
We never stopped hating them for that.
And since then we have been almost without a break
in deep confrontation with Iran.
This is odd because life in Iran is so much more like life
in the United States than many of our so-called allies.
The society in Iran is very much like ours.
Whereas the society in many of the countries in the Middle
East that are our so-called allies, not like ours.
Iran also has long-term strategic goals
that are actually in many ways congruent with ours.
The extremism, which we claim to be fighting
in the form of al-Qaeda and ICE
is the greatest enemy of Iran.
Those extremists that we're fighting
that we claim to have as enemies, they're greatest enemy.
They wanna kill all Shia.
And Iran is the center of Shia Islam.
So Iranians definitely have a motivation
intensely involved in the anti-terror struggle
in the Middle East.
So despite all of this,
the emotion that comes from the overthrow of the Shah
and the hostage crisis is still reverberating
through our politics.
And it has been fanned by our so-called friends
in Saudi Arabia and Israel, who for their own reasons
are very focused on the idea of containing Iran.
That's the way we see the relationship.
But there's a completely different interpretation
from the Iranian side.
So Iranians would tell you,
yeah, there was the hostage crisis.
I was unfortunate, but that was just a bump in the road.
The real moment when everything went bad
between the United States and Iran was in 1953.
So this is an episode of which most Americans are ignorant.
In 1953, Iran was emerging as an incipient democracy.
Because it was democratic, the government responded
to the demands of the Iranian people
were all focused on one issue.
And that was oil.
Iran is sitting on an ocean of oil.
The oil was owned by one British company,
which in turn was owned by the British government.
At the same time, Iranians were living
in some of the worst conditions of anybody in the world.
It was only logical that when Iran finally moved
into democracy in the period after the Second World War,
the first thing a democratic government would want to do
is take back control of the oil resource.
And that's what it did.
So Prime Minister Mossadek
and the Iranian parliament nationalized
the Iranian oil resource.
That set in motion a series of events that led the CIA
and its British counterpart to overthrow Mossadek in 1953.
That wasn't just the overthrow of an individual.
It was the end of democratic government in Iran.
We reinstalled the Shah on his peacock throne.
And he went on to rule with increasing repression
for another 25 years.
That repression produced the explosion of the late 1970s,
what we call the Islamic Revolution.
And that's what turned Iran into the country
that it is today, being led by a clique
of anti-American mollusks.
It all started in 1953.
This is the Iranian narrative.
But in America, we don't recognize that we ever interfere
and said everything wrong there.
But the fact is this, if we had not intervened
and overthrown Iran's democratic government in 1953,
we might have had a functioning democracy
in the heart of the Muslim Middle East all these 70 years.
And I can hardly wrap my mind around how different
the world and the Middle East might be
if we had only decided to allow Iranian democracy
to unfold rather than react or crush it
as a way of protecting our access to oil.
Now, I mean, recently, just, I think this year,
it was either late 19 or early 2020,
Trump ordered the execution
or had that general Salimani, I believe is how you say it.
He was killed in a drone strike.
What is your view on that?
And what do you think his reasoning for that
or his competence of the whole situation was?
Again, there's such a different narrative
from the Iranian side and from the American side.
So the American narrative is Iran is a hegemonic power.
It's trying to extend its tentacles
all around the Middle East.
It sponsors militias and political groups
and gives them money and weapons.
Salimani, the general who was the head
of the revolutionary guards was seen as the person
who was the diabolical master of this network
with all its Middle Eastern tentacles
and therefore a kind of terrorist mastermind.
In the Middle East terms, anybody is a terrorist
who opposes the interests of the United States,
particularly with any violence.
So when you are militantly or violently resisting
American power in the Middle East,
that's what defines a terrorist in our view.
So he became something like the chief terrorist.
Now, look at it differently from the Iranian side.
So Iran is the center of Shia Islam.
Shia Islam is the number one enemy
of radical Sunni movements like al-Qaeda and now ISIS.
Those groups have, as I said earlier,
their principal goal is to kill all Shia.
They want to come in Iran
and essentially kill everyone in Iran.
That's who their real enemy is.
They hate the Shia more than they hate
the Christians or Jews or anyone else.
Naturally, makes Iran eager to fight those groups.
And Mr. General Soleimani
was definitely the greatest ISIS killer of all time.
We have been even allied with al-Qaeda
and its brother groups in places like Syria,
but Iran never did that for reasons of self-preservation.
The other piece of the Soleimani
and Iranian influence story is this.
Iran is, as I said, the world center of Shia Islam,
but there are pockets of Shia,
Shiaism all over the Middle East and beyond.
In many places, those people are the oppressed.
If you go to a Muslim city or a Middle East city,
let's say like Beirut,
you'll find essentially the poor neighborhoods,
those are the Shia neighborhoods.
And social services are very weak from the government there.
That's why groups like Hezbollah have grown up.
They provide the whole network of social services
that keeps Shia communities alive.
If a widow can't survive with their kids,
the government has no programs for those people,
but you can go to the Hezbollah office
and they will help you.
It's a kind of a shadow government.
Those are Shia organizations
and they're sponsored by Iran.
Those organizations also have military wings
as like Hezbollah.
So Iran is thinking we are just supporting oppressed
and persecuted Shia communities all over the Middle East.
It's not that we're trying to expand influence,
it's we're trying to protect our own people.
And so again, the narratives are so different.
I was quite taken aback by the decision
to kill a Soleimani.
It certainly was something that bound Iranians
together again.
Everybody in Iran, I think admired him for what he had done.
So it was definitely a symbol if one was needed
as to how intensely the anti-Iran hatred
is still boiling in Washington.
Now, a lot of the narrative from Trump's team
and Trump was that Soleimani was responsible
for the deaths of tons and tons of U.S. soldiers,
not tons, but lots of U.S. soldiers
and attacks on U.S. bases over there.
Are you?
Soleimani was supporting militia groups in Iraq.
And those militia groups were devoted
to pushing the United States out of Iraq.
Don't forget that Iraq is also a majority Shia country.
Most of the leaders of Iraq are people who,
during the Saddam, they go to live in Iran
because they were Shia, they couldn't survive under.
So these are very deep ties to Iran,
this very strong tie between Iran and Iraq
that has to do with the Shia majorities in both countries.
So yes, Iran was supporting militias
that were attacking American soldiers in Iraq.
And their answer would be, well, you shouldn't be here.
That's why we attacked you.
We attacked invaders in our part of the world.
But of course, from the point of view of the United States,
anybody who attacks American soldiers is a terrorist.
And if Soleimani was even indirectly connected
to those attacks, that could have put him high
on our death list.
What is your outlook on the future of the U.S.
and foreign policy and these regime changes
and these wars in the Middle East,
especially with if Biden is the president now
and who he's gonna surround himself with.
Are you optimistic?
Are you pessimistic?
How do you feel about it?
I'm not looking forward to a sharp change
in the way America approaches the rest of the world.
Since the end of the Second World War,
the United States has had the view that we need
to be the dominant power everywhere on earth.
At the end of the Cold War around 1990,
we had a chance to recalibrate our approach to the world
and accept the fact that the world could be multipolar
and we won our ideological battle
and we shouldn't insist on continuing the struggle
for full spectrum dominance,
as they call it in Washington.
But we pushed ahead on that project.
We decided we still wanted to control the world.
NATO, which was the alliance created
to conquer the Soviet Union,
didn't dissolve when the Soviet Union fell apart.
In fact, it got stronger, built a new building
and took on all kinds of new missions.
So I don't think that Biden is going to take
the United States out of a mindset
that we have to be the dominant power in the world
and that we know what's good for the world
better than the world itself knows.
That principle has always guided American foreign policy.
Now, that said, I can see that there could be
some nibbling around the edges.
I can't imagine, for example,
that there will be a slight decrease
in tensions between the US and Iran.
They have reached such crazy levels in the last few years
that they might be able to be dialed down,
hopefully back to the level at least
that they were four years ago,
which wasn't very friendly,
but at least we didn't feel we were on the brink of war.
I'd like to see, and I think I would expect
to see some changes in the US relations with Cuba.
There have been some very intense new sanctions
just imposed that prevent Cuban-Americans
from even sending remittances back to Cuba.
I could see Biden lifting those.
I could see him taking the United States
back into the World Health Organization,
back into the Paris Climate Accord,
but that he would fundamentally reexamine the question
of whether the United States
needs to be controlling places all over the world.
I see that as far-fetched.
He's very much a product
of the American foreign policy establishment.
Remember that Biden has spent his entire adult life
as a senator in Washington.
He was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
He voted for the Iraq War
and was a leading promoter of it
because as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
Biden had the chance to call witnesses
who would have testified that going into Iraq
was a bad idea.
That would have given Americans
the other side of the argument,
but Biden never called those people.
As a result, an entire side of the argument,
the argument that it was not a good idea to invade Iraq,
never got a platform.
And I attribute that largely to Biden as chairman.
It was up to him to set up the witness lists.
So I do see the product
of the traditional foreign policy
orthodoxy in the United States,
but I would add this caveat.
The American people and the voting blocks in both parties
are increasingly in favor
of a more restrained foreign policy,
a number of public opinion surveys show this.
The only place in the United States
where there's still little appetite for foreign wars
and foreign interventions, Washington, DC,
the public has left this behind.
They don't wanna do it anymore,
but Washington is so fueled by foreign money
and foreign pressures and all sorts of imperial fantasies
that it can't break this addiction.
Now, Biden to my mind is not a person
of deep ideological or passionate conviction.
I had the same goes for Kamala Harris.
They're pragmatists, they don't have deep beliefs.
So I think they're willing to be shaped by circumstance.
One of those circumstances is that the public
and including the base of the Democratic party
doesn't wanna continue these constant foreign conflicts.
And I think if there's enough pressure from below,
if the force is favoring restraint
and limited foreign policy can organize and show Biden
that this is where the party is now,
that might have an effect.
And although I'm not optimistic about the kinds of people
that he's going to appoint to special security jobs,
I do think that he will evolve
and feels public opinion evolves.
And that gives those of us who have a voice,
the responsibility to show him
that public opinion is not where it was
when we launched the Iraq war almost 20 years ago.
Now, I heard you mentioned briefly
on another podcast that you did
that obviously there was a lot of presidential candidates
who were very outspoken on foreign policy,
like Tulsi Gabbard and Bernie Sanders.
Is it true that when a president wants to implement
domestic policies versus foreign policies,
there's a lot more hoops they have to jump through
with like Congress won't let them enforce their tax laws,
the changes in like taxes or universal healthcare
or education, but when it comes to foreign policy,
it's much easier for them to get things done.
Well, let me answer that by telling you a story.
I once had the opportunity to spend an hour
sitting around chatting with Jimmy Carter.
It happened that he actually came to Nicaragua
while I was the New York Times's bureau chief there
and he wanted to see me and we had a very nice chat.
And here's one of the things he told me.
He said, when I became president,
I decided I wanted to consult
with all the living former presidents in private.
And just have a chat with them about what do you do?
How do you do this job?
How do you be president?
What advice do you have for me?
So I brought them in very quietly
and we had private conversations.
Since I brought in Nixon and I said to him,
what's your advice on how to be president?
And Nixon told me, you know something,
domestic policy is too frustrated.
When you come into office,
there's gonna be a problem with education.
There's gonna be a problem with housing.
There's gonna be a problem with healthcare.
There's gonna be a problem with public welfare.
When you leave for office,
those problems are still gonna be there.
Yeah, you can do something.
You can nibble around the edges,
but it's so frustrating.
You've got Congress, you've got so many vested interests
and issues are so complex.
You appoint yourself a good environmental protection
administrator and a good housing secretary
and tell them to do the best they can.
But world affairs is so much more fun
because there you can really get things done.
All you have to do is sign a piece of paper
and your policy towards the whole part of the world changes.
So I always kept that story in mind
and I think it's very true.
These things that progressives talk about
like Medicare for all or let's say free tuition
in public universities,
I think those seem like no brainers,
but those are really difficult projects to get done.
We saw what we went through with Obamacare.
It was tormentuous and then it came out
as a grotesque caricature of a healthcare bill
because so many different interests had to be accommodated.
In foreign policy, it isn't like that.
Look what President Trump did with Iran
with one stroke of a pen.
He pulled the United States out of a profoundly important
deal that was gonna not only prevent Iran
from ever getting a nuclear weapon,
but lay the basis for some long-term stability
in the Middle East.
With one signature, he got rid of that, he abolished that.
So it tells me that Biden also can do much, much more,
incomparably more in foreign policy
than he can in domestic policy,
certainly in the short term.
And the short term is very important now
because we don't know what's gonna happen in four years.
Now, one thing we saw with Trump
was that you can rip a whole structure apart very quickly.
So this puts, I think, a different lens on foreign policy.
It has to be looking for somewhat shorter-term returns now.
You can't just set in motion a policy
hoping for a return in 20 years,
which is what good foreign policies should do
because you don't know what's gonna happen
with the next spasm in American domestic politics.
Therefore, I don't expect dramatic changes
from a Biden administration.
I'm looking at the people he's bringing into government
as more or less the Obama crowd.
And you'll remember that Obama dropped more bombs
than George W. Bush and was involved in wars
in seven countries and set Libya on fire
and helped devastate Syria.
So I don't see a change in basic mindset.
I can see some of the excesses
to which Trump pushed us being moderated.
But a true re-examination of whether it makes sense
for the United States to spend its resources
policing Ukraine and the South China Sea
and everywhere else in the world.
I don't see that.
Why is it specifically that they can do so much
foreign on foreign policy, but not domestically?
Well, why is that?
Domestic policy is very much caught up
in a web of laws and domestic political interests.
Every major interest in the United States
has a way to influence the way Congress works.
The timber industry or the gas industry
or the chemical industry or the credit card industry
or the financial industry.
They all have decisive influence
over certain members of Congress,
which they buy through the political system
in the United States of what's essentially legalized
bribery, if you see it from any other country.
And the clash of so many special interests
in their own profit makes progress
through Congress on anything very difficult.
But in all affairs, you can proceed
without congressional approval.
So for example, just to pick one out of the air,
what should be the United States policy toward Ukraine?
So Ukraine is bordering right on Russia.
It has been the United States project
to promote anti-Russian feeling in Ukraine
and to try to do everything we can
to weaken any efforts
to build stronger ties between Russia and Ukraine.
We want Ukraine to be an ally of the West
and to help us weaken Russia.
We would like to send heavy military equipment into Ukraine.
We would love to carry out military maneuvers
on the soil of Ukraine.
We would like to encourage Ukrainian politicians
to be defiant of Russia.
Now, you might pull back and ask yourself,
why would we wanna do that?
Why would we wanna provoke Russia
by fomenting trouble in the country on Russia's border?
No country can tolerate upheaval
and interference by a major global rival
in a country right on its border.
We wouldn't like China to open up a military base in Tijuana.
Or we wouldn't be to appreciate
large-scale Russian military maneuvers in Quebec
on the shores of the Great Lakes.
But yet, we are constantly poking our stick in Russia's eye
by carrying out military maneuvers in the Baltics.
In some cases, right on the border with Russia
are also doing the same thing
with aggressive military patrolling in the South China Sea.
A president could decide,
I don't wanna do that anymore.
We're not going to have a policy
of trying to provoke trouble for Russia and China
by fomenting upheaval on their borders.
We're not gonna do that anymore.
So he could do that just on his own.
He could decide, for example,
we're not selling weaponry in the Ukraine government
that want to use weaponry to provoke Russia anymore.
If Russia, for example, would like to complete
its gas pipeline to Germany,
we're not going to object to that anymore.
The Trump administration is very upset about this.
We would say to ourselves,
Russia and Germany made an accountability gas pipeline.
That's up to them.
We're not gonna interfere.
That would be a big change in American policy.
And that's a change that the United States
could make with the stroke of a pin.
How about our policy toward Venezuela?
We are intensely working to overthrow
the government of Venezuela
in a variety of different ways.
A new president could say, I don't think Biden will,
oh, we don't care about overthrowing
the government of Venezuela anymore.
We're just gonna leave it up to the Venezuelans.
That could be something that you don't need
any congressional approval to do.
And that goes for American policy
towards countries in most of the world.
We could decide we want a whole different policy
toward China, a different policy toward Russia.
And you don't need to consult Congress for that.
So that's why I say a new incoming president
has much more leeway in dealing with changes
in foreign policy than in trying to change domestic policy.
Do you think presidents necessarily know a lot
about foreign policy?
Like, do you think they have a comprehensive understanding
like someone like you, like someone like you does
of things that are going on in Russia, China, Venezuela
and the cause and effect of all of it?
Or do they just have war generals around them
telling them what to do?
You have to do this.
I think Joe Biden believes he knows a lot about world affairs.
He has served for years and years
on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
including extended periods as chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
He's been traveling all over the world.
He has met many world leaders.
So to a certain degree, he's right in thinking
that he knows a lot about the world.
On the other hand, he's so much a product
of the Republican Democrat established think tank media
mindset in Washington that he's never pulled back
from dealing with individual crises
to ask himself the larger question about
what should the United States be doing in the world?
Why do we insist on being the dominant power
in South America, the dominant power in Africa
that we should decide what happens in the Caucasus,
that we should shape events in the South China Sea?
How long can we continue to do this
in the modern particularly given all the needs at home?
So I don't think that he himself has pulled back enough
to ask himself those larger questions.
A number of Americans who are highly qualified
have done that and would be great members
of a national security team for the Biden administration
but I don't expect that to happen.
Ask yourself as you see the Secretary of State
and Secretary of Defense and their deputies
and the people on the National Security Council selected,
how many of those people said it was a bad idea
to get involved in Syria?
We shouldn't have bombed Libya.
We never should have invaded Iraq.
Go back and find the people who said that
and you will find any of them being rewarded
with posts in the new administration.
In fact, having been right about the disastrous consequences
of those interventions effectively disqualifies you
from service in a future administration.
Whereas having been wrong and supporting those interventions
that worked out so disastrously qualifies you eminently.
And why is that?
Why do you think it's like that?
It has to do with our national consciousness
and our national self-image.
We are a country that always thinks of ourself as the best,
the biggest, the strongest.
And we've convinced ourselves that it's not selfish for us
to wanna dominate the world.
It's good for the world.
We sacrifice ourselves to help the rest of the world.
And sometimes the world doesn't quite appreciate it
but without us there would be chaos.
We feed ourselves this narrative
that we are as mental and all,
but I put it the indispensable nation
because what does she say?
We stand taller and we see further than other nations.
It's very difficult for us to convince ourselves
that actually we may not have the key
to prosperity and security for all people all over the world.
That maybe other people wanna go in directions of their own
and should be allowed to do that.
The idea that we should just tend to our own nation
and we have deep troubles at home
rather than tell the rest of the world
we have a great example to sell you.
You have to be like us.
These are larger questions that are very difficult
for Americans to grasp.
Americans don't like to understand things.
We like to do things.
And that is what is propelling a foreign policy
of intervention and activism.
The idea that we should do less in the world
just doesn't get any traction in Washington.
There's no payoff in that idea.
It's always wanna do more.
You wanna sanction that country?
No, I wanna sanction them even more.
You wanna give military aid to that government?
I wanna give them even more.
There's no payoff.
There's no percentage in Washington for saying,
why don't we just leave those parts of the world
to deal with their own problems
and help them diplomatically,
but not insist on coercive power?
Let's try to do a little less in the world
and a little more at home
instead of trying to build a perfect society in Afghanistan.
How about trying to work on one at home?
This seems to suggest that there's some limit
on what the United States can do in the world
and that contradicts something
that's very deep in our national character.
Right.
What specifically, can you explain the gas pipeline
you were talking about with Russia and Germany
and why does the Trump administration not want it to happen?
This is one of those sort of obscure geopolitical issues.
It's actually very important and people,
nerds sit around and think about
how to move the chips of international relations.
Focus on this one.
But it does seem pretty abstruse to most people.
So here's the story.
Russia produces a lot of natural gas.
Germany is a major economic driver of Europe
and it consumes a lot of natural gas.
So the Germans and the Russians got together
and they decided they'd build a pipeline.
It's called Nord Stream.
It's gonna go across, it's an undersea pipeline
that would connect Russia to Germany
and provide Germany with gas.
So Russia and Germany agreed on this.
Everything was all set.
And in fact, the construction is almost finished.
It's been going on for years.
It's needless to say, this is a highly complex project
and you have Germany and Russia involved.
It's not just like two little countries
that don't know anything.
So this has been a massive undersea project
and big undertaking that's been going on for some years.
So suddenly the United States decided, wait a minute,
we don't like this pipeline
because it's going to make Germany dependent on Russia.
It will give Russia a future pressure point against Germany.
And the German answer was, let us worry about that.
Don't worry, we can handle our relations with Russia.
We're grown up, we've had relations with Russia
long before there even was a United States.
We're gonna deal with this.
And America says, no, we don't like that.
We don't want you to have that pipeline.
So as I say, the pipeline is almost completed
and there's now sentiment, not just in the Trump administration
but even in Congress that we have to stop this pipeline.
And the Trump administration has now ordered a program
of sanctions against every company
that's helping to build that pipeline.
This is like 800 companies.
Every company that owns a part of the pier
in some port up in the Baltic,
every company that helps make the steel tubes,
800 companies from companies all over Europe.
They're now sanctioned by the United States
as they dare to help Russia and Germany complete a project
that Russia and Germany have agreed on.
If they help, they can't do any business
with any American company in the future.
They'll be sanctioned by the United States government.
We are sanctioning Germany.
Germany is our closest ally in Western Europe.
It's the economic powerhouse.
It's the country that is the big power
in the center of Europe.
And we're trying to tell Germany,
you have no idea how to deal with Russia.
Let us tell you how to deal with Russia.
European politics are very complex.
They don't need somebody from America
to come over and tell them what to do.
So here you have Germany,
supposedly one of our closest allies in the world,
looking at Washington and saying,
are you kidding?
You're trying to block a major energy project
that we need to fuel our economy
that's gonna keep our country and Europe prosperous and stable.
How can you be doing this?
Do you overrule our sovereign right
to make contracts with other countries?
And essentially that's what we're doing.
So a new administration could say to Germany,
you know, we think you're grown up enough
to make your own decisions
about your relationship with Russia.
And we'll drop our fanatic belief
that anything that could be positive for Russia
is definitely bad for the world.
And we'll let you go your own way.
So that's an example of one project,
the idea of sanctioning all companies involved
in building this Nord Stream pipeline,
of how a US president could make a dramatic impact
on foreign policy.
Let me tell you, just lifting those sanctions
and telling the Germans and the Russians,
go ahead and do whatever you decide you wanna do,
would have a big impact, especially in Germany.
It would convince Germans
that a little bit of the nightmare
might be over in Washington.
Well, it's a fantastic example.
Who are the specific people in Congress
or in Trump's cabinet that are making these decisions?
And what would be their argument
to why they're doing this?
So Secretary of State Pompeo
is one of the leading hard chargers on this issue.
He's the one who officially signed
the new sanction rules on all these hundreds of companies.
In Washington, there are prominent figures
in both parties who are promoting this idea,
including Adam Schiff, powerful congressman
who has made a career on confronting Russia.
And that's what's behind it all.
It's all about congressmen and senators
competing with each other
to find new ways to be tough on Russia.
You wanna sanction Russia here,
I'm gonna sanction them over there.
You know, we have practically run out of sanctions.
We don't have anything else we can do.
It's just finding a new way to pile on to Russia.
So someone noticed this Nord Stream pipeline to say,
wait a minute, this could be good for Russia.
Anything good for Russia, it's bad for us.
That's the only reason.
And the reason is to cripple Russia.
And in order to promote that goal
of making sure that Russia can't make money
by exporting gas to Germany,
we are willing to try to overrule a sovereign decision
taken by one of our closest allied countries.
And I just wanna go back to this story.
The relationships among European countries,
Russia, France, Germany, Poland,
these are very complex, very old.
They go back many, many centuries.
And I think these countries have developed a degree
of diplomatic sophistication
where they should be allowed to be free
to decide what's good for us.
Without politicians in Washington going nuts
and telling them you can't build this pipeline.
And let me tell you,
it has nothing to do with the pipeline itself.
It has all to do with finding a way
to poke your stick in Putin's eye one more time,
which always feels good in Washington.
And it seems like especially countries over in Europe,
they're all so jammed tight next to each other.
Well, this is a very important factor
in explaining the difference in attitude
between European countries and the United States.
European countries, as you put it, are packed together.
They all have lots of neighbors.
So before Switzerland can take a step,
it has to think, so what's Austria gonna do?
Before Austria can take a step,
it has to think, what about France?
What about Hungary?
What about Germany?
And this is the way they've been accustomed
to dealing over many, many generations.
So diplomacy is highly developed in Europe
more than anywhere else in the world.
And that's the reason why.
They've had to deal with shifting alliances
and balances of power over so many centuries.
But the United States is not like that.
We never had to learn how to get along with anybody.
We just have solid Mexicans and happy Canadians
and rapidly declining fish stocks.
That's it.
We never had to weigh our actions
against possible reactions.
In addition, our geographic isolation
has been a spectacular way to protect us
against the backlash from our decisions.
When France or Germany or Austria or Poland
has historically made any decision,
if it turns out badly, they get the bad result right away.
It doesn't happen to the United States.
We're totally invulnerable.
Or at least that's what we thought until 9-11.
So this is why I tell my students
at the beginning of every semester,
don't never underestimate the value and importance
of geography in understanding the world.
And an effect of this on the United States is,
we never had to learn how to deal with neighbors.
We don't know how to play nicely with others.
We don't have to.
And also, we're protected from the blowback,
from the effects of our foreign interventions
because we got this huge distance
between us and all other countries.
And that's probably an important factor
in explaining how we came to be the way we are.
Okay, let's take a transition for sake of time
into your book, The Poisoner-in-Chief.
Fascinating story.
Can you just give me a brief background
on who Sidney Gottlieb is
and the story behind The Poisoner-in-Chief?
Well, this is my 10th book.
And I can say that in my books,
I've uncovered things that have surprised me
and they may have shocked a lot of my readers.
But this is the first time I've really been shocked.
I can't believe that this happened
and that this person existed.
I can hardly believe what I discovered
in writing my own recent book, Poisoner-in-Chief.
So the story is this.
At the end of the Second World War,
Americans began focusing on a new enemy
that was communism and the Soviet Union.
That led to the creation of the CIA.
The CIA decided very early on mistakenly
that communist powers and communist scientists
had uncovered the key to mind control.
They'd found a way to seize control of human minds
and make people do things up their secret commands.
Therefore, the CIA launched an intensive program
to try to compete with this.
As I said, it wasn't really true,
but anybody had ever found these secrets
because they don't exist.
But the CIA went off in this direction
and it began a program called MKUltra,
a highly secret program that ran during all of the 1950s,
specifically aimed at trying to find ways
to control the human mind.
In 1951, the CIA hired a chemist named Sidney Gottlieb,
a person who faded into total anonymity
and lived his whole life completely invisible.
Sidney Gottlieb became the chief
of the chemical division of the CIA.
So he's the chief chemist of the CIA.
In this capacity, he also became the director of MKUltra.
First of all, it's just amazing
that the CIA has a chemistry department.
Well, Gottlieb had his PhD in chemistry
and I called my book Poisoner in Chief
because whenever the US government decided it needed poisons,
Gottlieb was the person who could make them.
He knew more about poisons than anyone in America.
I think maybe more than anybody in the world.
So when the United States, for example,
decided that we wanted to kill Fidel Castro with poison in 1960,
it was Gottlieb who made the pills
and the poison fountain pen and the poison wetsuit.
When the United States decided we wanted to kill
the prime minister of the Congo, Patrice Lumumba, in 1960,
it was Gottlieb who made the poison kit
and brought it over to the Congo.
But actually, that wasn't the most important part
of Sidney Gottlieb's work.
By compounding those poisons to kill foreign leaders,
he was essentially just a pharmacist.
He was just a really smart chemist
who knew how to extract minute amounts of toxin
from Alaskan butter clams
and compound them into super potent poisons.
But another gifted chemist might have been able to do that.
Gottlieb's work, it was much more secret, on MKUltra
was the real key, what a bizarre life
and a bizarre project he was responsible for.
So Gottlieb set out on his mission,
find the key to mind control in a very scientific way,
concluding that if you wanna find a way
to implant a new mind into someone's brain,
you first have to find a way to destroy
the mind that's in there.
So the focus of MKUltra became,
how do you destroy a human mind or human body
or human spirit?
Gottlieb asked himself, who knows about this?
That's another great scientific step you would take.
Like what data is already out there on the project
I'm about to undertake?
Who knows about how to torment people,
how to destroy their minds, how to poison people,
how much poison it takes and how much shock it takes
to create certain horrific impulses?
Well, the only people that would really know about this
would be the doctors from the Nazi concentration camps
and their Japanese counterparts.
So those people were brought into the CIA
and became part of MKUltra.
The Sydney Gottlieb, who was actually the son
of Jewish refugees from Europe,
wound up working with these former Nazi doctors
in his project of trying to find ways
to destroy human beings.
So how did he do this?
Gottlieb was given the authority
to travel around the world to places like Germany
and Japan and Philippines
and he could requisition human subjects
from the CIA station there or from military police.
These were called expendables.
They were people who could be tortured and killed
and nobody would notice,
either they were suspected enemy agents
or they might be refugees who had no connections to anybody
and they would be brought to secret CIA prisons,
one of which I visited in Germany
and made subjects of these horrific experiments.
So how would those experiments go?
For example, I found one where certain subjects
were strapped into sensory deprivation chambers
and then fed with overdoses of amphetamines
so they would become hyperactive within their restraints.
Then fed mega doses of sedatives
that would put them into a coma
and when they were in the transition phase
from hyperactivity to comatose,
they would be given heavy doses of electroshock
to see if all this together
might work to destroy their minds.
When I visited this, one of the safe houses
that I think might have been the first ever
CIA secret prison in Germany,
the young German guy who now owns the building
was very accommodating
and he took me down into the basement
and he said to me, these storerooms are the cells
in which the CIA doctors
along with their Nazi counterparts can.
Just continuations of the experiments
that the Nazis had been conducting a few years earlier
in the concentration camps just down the road.
And the guy who owns the house also said to me,
everybody in this neighborhood, the older people,
they know what happened here, it's not a secret.
It's been published in a couple of German magazines as well.
And they've told me, he said,
that the bodies of the people who were experimented to death
are buried in places that are now covered up
with shopping malls and apartment blocks all around here.
So God leave had what amounted to a license to kill
issued by the US government.
And in pursuit of his MK Ultra Mind Control project,
he carried out the most intense and extreme experiments
on human beings that have ever been conducted
by any agent or authority of the US government.
Why, what is the purpose of mind control?
And why the hell would the CIA
want to control people's minds?
Alan Dulles, the director of the CIA had concluded
that if you could make people in other countries
behave as you wanted them to,
you wouldn't have to kill them.
But I think the deeper question is,
what led them to believe that this was possible?
And I think there are two answers.
One of them has to do with a few specific episodes
that happened.
There was the story of this Hungarian Cardinal
who was placed on trial by the communists
and spoke in a very monotonous voice
and with glazed eyes and confessed to crimes
that he obviously hadn't committed.
It later turned out he had been coerced by the same means
that people have been coercing prisoners with
since forever, but we didn't believe that.
We thought that he had been mind controlled somehow.
The same thing happened with the release
of our prisoners from Korea,
a number of them that said good things about communism
and confessed to committing war crimes.
We thought the only way they could have done this
is if they had been brainwashed somehow.
So it was those kinds of false interpretation of events.
But I think there was something even bigger than that,
something that was behind that.
I think those seeds fell on fertile soil
and that fertile soil was cultural conditioning.
Think of all those stories about mind control.
It's a fantastic trope for fantasists.
You drop a pill into someone's drink.
I mean, how many books, how many movies and stories
have come out of the swinging clock watch
that makes you hypnotized?
There've been Edgar Allen Poe stories
and Sherlock Holmes stories and movies
like Cabinet of Dr. Caligari and Gaslight.
These guys in the early CIA grew up in this culture.
And I think they confused the line
between reality and fantasy.
They began to think that what screenwriters
and novelists could imagine
that any scientist could make real.
And so that's what they hired Sidney Gottlieb to do.
Find out how to do this in real life.
And the justification was it's all defensive.
They're doing it.
We need to do it to save ourselves.
And I do believe this is one of the lessons
of MK Ultra for today.
So what led them to feel that it was all right
to go to these extremes?
I think it was their fear of the threat that was out there.
We had convinced ourselves that Soviet communism
was endlessly and ceaselessly plotting
our total destruction.
That apocalypse could happen at any moment.
And that once the Soviets struck,
not only would America be destroyed,
but the entire possibility of fulfilling life on earth
would be over forever with the stakes that high.
The loss of a few lives or even a few hundred lives
would seem like a very small price to pay.
And the lesson I think is that you can always work yourself
into an exaggerated threat mode,
where you think that, well, we always as a nation abide
by ethics and morality and laws,
but there have to come some very extreme circumstances
where temporarily we have to leave that behind.
But the temporarily never seems to end.
And now we're again in a situation with world terrorism
and all the threats we're faced where we're told,
well, civil liberties can't be respected
quite the way we normally would like to
because we're facing an extreme threat.
So commitment to a great cause
is the most powerful motivation to commit immoral acts.
And there's no cause that's more seductive than patriotism.
I think this is what brought people like Sidney Gottlieb
and his bosses at the CIA into the mindset
that even the extremes of MK Ultra would be justified.
What kind of person do you think Gottlieb was?
Like after, aside from all the gruesome acts
that he committed to torturing people
and essentially murdering innocent people
for these experiments,
what kind of a guy was he outside of work?
That's another thing that makes Sidney Gottlieb so interesting.
So he was the most gentle hearted torturer
you could ever imagine.
Sidney Gottlieb, who carried out these
horrifically grotesque experiments
and just left a trail of blood and devastation behind him
was a sweetheart.
He was like a proto hippie.
He lived unlike any civil servant in Washington
in the 1950s, I'm sure.
He lived in a cabin in the woods out in Virginia.
It had no running water.
He got up before dawn to milk his goats.
He meditated.
He studied Buddhism.
He wrote poetry.
He grew his own vegetables
and brought homemade bread for lunch at the CIA.
So somehow he was able to reconcile
these two sides of his personality.
While writing that book, Poisoner in Chief,
I tried to imagine how he did that.
He never spoke or wrote about his own feelings
or about his own work,
but I would ask myself,
how does a person who's so unorthodox and so humanistic
justify carrying out such bloody deeds?
And I'm just speculating now,
but maybe this is one thing he might have told himself.
He might have said, I'm a very unorthodox person.
I'm not like a mainstream guy the way I live.
And I'm able to do this because I live in a free country.
We are now facing an enemy
who wants to make it impossible forever
for anybody ever to live like I do.
Everyone's gonna have to be an automaton
and fit into the pro-Christian Soviet bet.
That's what we were being told in those days.
And in order to prevent that from happening,
in order to assure that meaningful life
will be possible in the future
and that everything that's creative and beautiful
will be able to survive, I have to do these things.
And it shows you how you really can lose sight
of the devastation you're causing
by creating in your mind
an image of something that you use to justify it.
How did he utilize LSD?
And what sort of experiments was he involved with
using LSD on his prisoners or his subjects or whatever?
And how was the LSD part of this significant?
Godly was fascinated by LSD.
It had only recently been discovered
when he came to the CIA.
And the fact that it could have such potent effects
in such small quantities, and it was colorless
and odorless, made him think
that this might be the key to mind control.
He was so fixated on LSD that in 1953,
Sydney Godly persuaded the CIA to buy
the entire world supply of LSD and the CIA did that.
They bought it from Sandos in Switzerland,
which was the sole producer.
So what did Godly then do with that LSD?
Well, part of it, he used in horrifically grotesque
experiments that were highly coercive.
And he wanted to see if LSD could be used
to destroy a human mind.
And I think he probably found out, yeah, it can.
For example, I discovered documents
citing an experiment in the federal prison
in Lexington, Kentucky.
In this experiment, seven African-American inmates
were segregated and given triple doses of LSD every day
for 77 days without being told what was happening
to them or what they were being given.
The purpose of that experiment presumably was to find out
if that kind of an overdose can destroy a human mind.
And undoubtedly the answer is yes, you can.
We never were able to find out who those people were.
The records were destroyed.
And so I've often wondered, those seven guys,
did they survive, did they ever figure out?
They couldn't have known what had happened to them.
They were trapped in this MK ultra web.
So LSD was used for terrible purposes
under Sidney Gottlieb's supervision.
That was not, however, the only way that he used LSD.
He had an entire other interest.
And that was to find out how ordinary people
would react to LSD under clinical circumstances.
So he decided he wanted to set up experiments
in normal hospitals in which, or research facilities.
And so what he did was he set up a couple
of bogus medical foundations to disguise the fact
that the money was coming from the CIA.
And he had these foundations notify hospitals
and university clinics around the United States
that we, this foundation, wants to sponsor and pay for,
experiments in this new psychoactive substance called LSD.
And we will supply you with the LSD.
You will then advertise in newspapers for volunteers.
You will tell them exactly what it is,
what's gonna happen to them.
You will pay them with money we will give you.
And all you have to do is write down reports
on their responses and we pay for this.
As a result of these overtures, almost overnight,
a whole new market grew up for research in LSD.
And a number of hospitals began carrying
out these experiments.
Some of the very first people who volunteered to come in
and try this new psychoactive drug were people
who went on to become godfathers of the counterculture.
One of the first was Ken Keezy,
the author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,
which was like the first counterculture Bible.
He took LSD at the Menlo Park Veterans Administration Hospital
in California in an experiment that was sponsored
and paid for by the CIA.
Although he didn't know that and neither did the hospital.
They thought it was paid by some foundation.
Ken Keezy loved the LSD.
He went so far as to get a job in the hospital.
That's what provided him with all the material
for that book, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
But as he later said, that wasn't the reason
he got the job in the hospital.
It wasn't because he wanted to gather material for a book.
It was because he wanted to steal the LSD and take it home
and share it with all his friends, which is what he did.
Allen Ginsberg, the radical poet,
later a great LSD evangelist also got his first LSD
through one of these experiments in California.
So did Robert Hunter, the lyricist for The Grateful Dead,
who immediately took LSD home
and told all his other Grateful Dead friends,
you gotta go and try this drug.
It was through Gottlieb that LSD leaked out of laboratories
and into the counterculture.
John Lennon was asked about LSD
in his famous Playboy interview,
and he said, we must always remember to thank the CIA.
Now, John Lennon had never heard Sidney Gottlieb.
Nobody had.
But if he had, he would have said,
you must always remember to thank Sidney Gottlieb.
So unwittingly, Gottlieb became kind of a godfather
of the counterculture.
And of course, the irony is that the drug
that Gottlieb hoped would give the CIA,
the tool to control the world,
actually wound up fueling a generational rebellion,
which was aimed at destroying everything the CIA stands for.
Wow.
Wow.
Now, a lot of people talk about with drugs,
psychedelics specifically,
like psilocybin mushrooms or LSD.
There's a thing that happens called ego death.
Was he aware of that?
And was that kind of what he was aiming for
when you talk about destroying someone's mind,
destroying their ego?
I think that Gottlieb was more interested
in the effect of massive doses.
I don't think he was interested so much
in using it for psychic exploration.
He did that for himself.
He later said he used LSD at least 200 times.
And I'm sure he was also a psychic voyager,
but that's not, that wasn't his professional interest.
He was not interested in using it as a way
to increase people's understanding of life or themselves.
He was interested in using it as a tool for covert action.
And he was trying to find out if it could be a way
to destroy a mind so that another kind
of psychic suggestion could be inserted.
Later, he finally concluded that it was,
as he put it, too unpredictable.
You couldn't tell how LSD is going to affect
a particular person in a particular situation.
Some might become very talkative
and tell you what you wanna hear.
Others become very defiant.
They have just the opposite reaction.
So ultimately he found that LSD was not reliable
for this purpose.
But self-experimentation was definitely
one of his principles.
And I'll tell you something that happened to me
right after this book was published
and I was being questioned about it.
I had suggested, I had wondered in my own mind
this question, Godly came up with such bizarre,
totally sick if you wanna look at them
from an outside perspective, ideas for experiments.
How do you combine various forms of torture
all at once to see if they can destroy a person?
Is it possible that he could have conceived
some of these experiments while he was actually
tripping on acid himself?
And when I suggested this, somebody even offered
another step forward that I had never even thought of
which is Godly was traveling around the world
to observe these experiments,
including people, experiments in which people
were experimented to death.
Do you think he could have been on acid
while he's actually watching the experiments unfold?
Who knows?
Wow.
Now, so did he ever, did he ever find any sort of success?
Did he ever successfully destroy somebody's mind?
I'm sure he destroyed many minds and he killed many people.
We have plenty of cases in which the person
reduced back practically to a vegetable state.
I talk about one woman in Canada who went in
because she had postpartum depression.
She went in for counseling with a psychologist.
She was seized and placed into one of the,
basically pulled into the web of the MK Ultra Madness.
And she was, for the rest of her life,
unable to recognize her relatives or hold a fork.
Her mind was successfully destroyed.
We have no idea how many people this happened to,
but the number must be quite substantial.
So the paperback edition of my book has just come out
and I added an afterword at the end.
And one of the things I say is that
since the hardcover came out one year ago,
I've been getting emails from people saying,
I've been spending the last 50 years trying to find out
what happened to me.
Well, I think I was caught up.
I believe I was an MK Ultra victim.
Now that I put the pieces together and I see who was where,
and what was going on, I think it was me.
That's what destroyed my life.
How can I find out?
And all I can say is you can't,
but there are a lot of poignant stories out there.
And at one point, Sydney Gottlieb
in a piece of them secret testimony said something like,
I want the members of this committee to know
that I found this work very difficult.
It was challenging.
It wasn't what I'd like to do, but it was very important.
So when he said it was very difficult,
that's what he's referring to.
It was very difficult that I had to supervise all that.
So he must have put himself into a mindset
where he was able to justify it.
Now there's obvious connections.
Have you, how deep have you gone into the connections
with the stories of like the Unabomber and Ted Kaczynski
and the experiments that were done on him at Harvard?
I believe it was.
So the story of the Unabomber and the experiments
at Harvard are outside the MKUltra realm.
They're connected, I think.
Was it the professor that was doing the experiments with him?
Wasn't he part of the CIA at one point?
As far as I know, he was never part of MKUltra.
Okay.
The CIA was conducting a variety of experiments.
So was the military.
There was a lot of speculation.
This project is so unknown
so many of the records were destroyed
that you can go off in a lot of directions.
Who killed John Lennon?
You know, what was Sirhan's story?
Was he mind controlled?
Ted Kaczynski is another one.
In my books, I only deal with facts.
My favorite chapter in all my books is the footnotes.
Everything is footnoted.
Everything comes from somewhere.
So I wouldn't, I don't deal with cases like those.
I love reading about them.
So I hope some, I'm glad that other people do write about those.
But in my books, I try to stick to the facts.
And it's frustrating in writing about MKUltra
because I'm painfully aware
that I've only uncovered a small fraction
of what MKUltra was and what Sydney Godley did.
So there's no concrete evidence connecting to Ted Kaczynski
or even Charles Manson or any of that stuff?
I haven't seen any evidence connecting MKUltra to Manson
or to the Unabomber.
Unfortunately, there's so much that's been lost.
When Sydney Godley left the CIA,
he violated federal law by destroying
all the records of MKUltra.
He had the support of the Director of Central Intelligence,
his boss, in doing this.
As a result of that, there's huge gaps in what we know.
And it's frustrating because I realize that in telling the story,
I've only scratched the surface and told a small part
of what MKUltra was and what Sydney Godley did.
There was another guy, like a famous gangster,
hit man who was in prison,
who was one of his victims as well.
This is actually an interesting story
because that's one exception to the rule
that we don't know anything about what happened.
Whitey Bulger, the famous Boston gangster,
was an MKUltra victim.
And we don't need the records of MKUltra to find this out
because he has written about it.
So as a young thug in his 20s,
Whitey Bulger was sent to the federal prison
in Atlanta, Georgia.
There was a doctor there named Pfeiffer,
who was an MKUltra subcontractor.
And Pfeiffer was sending back reports to the CIA,
to Sydney Godley, about how prisoners responded to LSD.
One of the prisoners that he recruited was Whitey Bulger.
He told those prisoners,
we're researching a medication for a possible cure
for schizophrenia.
We need your help.
It's a humanitarian project.
They were not told anything
about the real motivation for the project.
So Whitey Bulger had terrible reactions.
He writes in his diaries about having panic attacks
never left him for the rest of his life.
And now he was so psychologically destroyed by this.
And given the amount of LSD that he was fed
over a period of well over a year,
it's quite understandable
that he would have had serious psychic reactions.
The footnote to this is that in the 1970s,
so 20 years later,
Whitey Bulger is now a gangster on a high level
up in Boston.
And he reads that there was such a thing as MK Ultra.
That's when the news first came out.
And then he finds out from a paper in Atlanta,
that yes, that nice doctor Pfeiffer,
who was, I was helping trying to find a cure
for schizophrenia was actually working for the CIA.
And this was all part of a project
that had nothing to do with schizophrenia.
And they were just using me.
He got so angry.
He told his fellow gangsters,
I'm gonna go to Atlanta.
I'm gonna find that Pfeiffer.
And they're gonna kill him.
He never did that.
As far as we know,
although Pfeiffer did die in early death,
apparently not violent,
but it shows you that that's one,
just one example, Whitey Bulger,
of somebody who had tremendous psychic disturbances,
maybe lifelong, from being a victim of MK Ultra.
And you can only extrapolate from that one case,
how many others there was.
He went on to murder tons of people after that, right?
He did.
And some lawyers in the Boston area were puzzled
that this didn't come up in his trial.
Maybe the defense lawyer should have gotten up
and said that the reason he did it was the MK Ultra
gave him too much LSD and drove him crazy.
Now, whether a jury would have bought that or not,
I don't know, but the fact that Gottlieb,
the CIA and MK Ultra,
overlap with this Boston gangster project,
just shows you the extremes to which MK Ultra went.
And now I find it hard to believe
that there's nothing like this going on today.
There's no sort of crazy secret experiments
that are going on today like this.
It would be naive to believe
that such a secret project as was carried out in the 1950s
would never be carried out today.
Very few people would ever have believed
that MK Ultra existed
if you had shown them what was happening
while it was happening.
Nobody would have believed.
Doesn't that make it logical
that there could be things going on right now
that if you would find out about them
are so extreme that nobody would believe them?
When Gottlieb finally finished his MK Ultra work
after almost a decade,
he concluded that mind control is a myth,
that you cannot actually make somebody commit a murder
if that person is fundamentally opposed to committing murder.
You cannot do it.
That's just made up.
That's movies.
He made that conclusion
after wreaking horrific havoc
and leaving a terrible bloody trail behind him.
But I think he was probably right.
And that was the overwhelming evidence
not only of everything that he had researched
over 10 years,
but everything that qualified psychologist
had been telling him,
but he just wouldn't listen to.
However, if he was right,
that there's no such thing as mind control,
maybe we can say that he was right
given what was known at the time that he was saying this.
That was more than 50 years ago.
The advances in computer science, cyber technology,
artificial intelligence
have been so dramatic since then.
We've gotten into regions
that scientists like Sidney Gottlieb of the 1950s
could not even imagine.
Therefore, although I suspect that Gottlieb was right
when he concluded that there's no such thing as mind control,
it's not possible in the early 1960s.
Is it still true today?
I'm not so sure.
And it would surprise me
to learn that no secret service
is trying to answer this question right now as we speak.
So how did MKUltra ultimately dissolve?
And what did he do after MKUltra was done with?
Obviously he destroyed the records, right?
MKUltra was not ended on a particular day.
It faded away during the early 1960s.
There were no new projects.
The old projects were allowed to fade away.
There were successor projects.
None of them were nearly as intense.
And I think the horrors at what was revealed
about the CIA in the 1970s
also led them to take quite a step back
from this kind of research.
But that's not to say they never stepped forward again.
I really believe that there must be things going on now
that are just as shocking as what I've discovered
about MKUltra from back then.
So MKUltra ended as a project on its own,
but the idea behind it never really died.
And I think in the modern age,
the question of how you could try
to control other people's minds in a battle situation
or in a covert action situation
must be intriguing some scientists
who are working for secret services
in the United States in those two.
Well, I mean, it's weird in the sense
that it's the same thing as making an excuse
to do something immoral,
making an excuse saying that,
oh, there's other countries possibly doing this.
And being fearful of being destroyed by them
or them coming up with this technology first
and then being able to crush us.
It's the classic security dilemma
in international relations.
Countries take steps to defend themselves.
Those steps then seem aggressive to the other country,
which then takes aggressive moves
that then starts to spiral up again.
Or just make up fake narratives.
Exactly, there's also a psychological concept
called projection.
You imagine what you would do,
so you assume that the other guy's doing that too.
Right, the thief always thinks everyone's stealing from him.
When CIA prisoners were taken by the communists
in the 1950s, we assumed that the communists
were horribly torturing them
and using them as subjects in grotesque experiments.
They weren't, but since we were doing that,
we assumed that that's what they must be doing.
And in fact, that's why we had to do it
because they were, but actually it turned out
that they weren't and we were.
For everybody listening and or watching,
where can they find your stuff online?
More of your work, your books.
I have a website called stevenkinser.com.
My books are all visible on Amazon,
so go on to Amazon, read the Amazon pages,
read the Amazon reviews, and then go down to your local,
independent bookstore, and order the book.
Awesome, thank you so much, Steven.
I really appreciate your time.
Okay, thank you.
